[[Lester Speight]]

CATEGORIES: Lester Speight, 1963 births, Living people, American football players, American professional wrestlers, American wrestlers, Actors from Baltimore, Maryland, American movie actors, Sportspeople from Baltimore, Maryland

Lester Speight (born August 28, 1963), also known as Rasta, is a former American football player and current actor. He was born in Baltimore, Maryland. He achieved significant recognition for his portrayal of Terry Tate: Office Linebacker in a series of Reebok commercials that debuted during Super Bowl XXXVII, and received further recognition for his portrayal of Augustus Cole in the Gears of War series of video games.

[[Nissan Serena]]

CATEGORIES: Nissan automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Nissan Serena is a series of minivans built by Nissan Motor Company. The assembly for the Nissan Serena is in Oppama, Japan. They are sold in Japan, North America, and Europe. The first Serena arrived in 1991. It was followed by its second generation in 1999, third generation in 2005, and fourth generation in 2010. The fifth generation has been on sale since 2016.

[[LDV Cub]]

CATEGORIES: Vans, Buses

[[1992 Arab Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA Arab Cup

The 1992 Arab Cup (Arabic: كأس العرب لكرة القدم 1992) was the 6th Arab Cup tournament. Egypt won the tournament after defeating Saudi Arabia in the final.

The tournament was part of the 1992 Pan Arab Games, but also counted for the Arab Cup.

Iraq was banned from the tournament because of the Gulf War.

[[FC Akhmat Grozny]]

CATEGORIES: Russian football clubs, Chechnya, 1958 establishments in the Soviet Union

FC Akhmat Grozny (Chechen: футболан клуб Ахмат Соьлжа-ГӀала, futbolan klub akhmat cölzha ġala; Russian: Республиканский футбольный клуб Ахмат Грозный, Respublikanskiy futbol'nyy klub akhmat groznyy; Republican Football Club Akhmat Grozny) is a association football club from Grozny, Chechnya, Russia. From 1958 until 2017, the club was named Terek Grozny. The club plays in the Russian Premier League.

The club is currently named after the 1st Chechen President, Akhmad Kadyrov

Akhmat Grozny currently plays their games in the Akhmat-Arena. Because of the war in Chechnya, from the 1990's to 2007 they played their home games in Pyatigorsk, Stavropol Krai. Before the 2008 season, the Russian Football Union allowed the club to play their home matches in Grozny.

[[Terek Grozny]]

CATEGORIES: Russian football clubs, 1958 establishments in the Soviet Union, 2017 disestablishments, Disestablishments in Russia

[[Leon Goretzka]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, German footballers, People from Bochum, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Leon Christoph Goretzka (born 6 February 1995) is a German professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Bayern Munich and the Germany national team.

[[Le Donjon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Allier

Le Donjon is a commune in the Allier department in central France.

[[Buhl, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Buhl is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Burnhaupt-le-Bas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Burnhaupt-le-Bas is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Burnhaupt-le-Haut]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Burnhaupt-le-Haut is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department in the east France.

[[Buschwiller]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Buschwiller is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Carspach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Carspach is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Fulda (disambiguation)]]

Fulda can mean:

[[Lodrino]]

Lodrino can mean:

[[Ashland, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Ashland is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is the county seat of Ashland County.

[[Ashland County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1846 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Ohio

Ashland County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 53,139 people lived there. The county seat is Ashland.

[[Ashtabula, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Ashtabula æ ash-tə is a city in Ashtabula County, Ohio, United States, and the center of the Ashtabula Micropolitan Statistical Area.

As of the 2010 census, the city had a total population of 19,124.

[[Ashtabula County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1811 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in Ohio

Ashtabula County is the northeasternmost county in the U.S. state of Ohio. As of the 2010 census, the population was 101,497. The county seat is Jefferson.

[[Paint Rock, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Texas, County seats in Texas

Paint Rock is a town of Texas in the United States. It is the county seat of Concho County.

[[Paducah, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Texas, County seats in Texas

Paducah is a town in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Cottle County.

[[Paducah]]

Paducah can mean:

[[Oberrieden]]

Oberrieden can mean:

[[Wiler (disambiguation)]]

Wiler can mean:

[[Bendorf (disambiguation)]]

Bendorf can mean:

[[Trient (disambiguation)]]

Trient can mean:

[[Eschenbach (disambiguation)]]

Eschenbach can mean:

[[Staufen]]

Staufen can mean:

[[Burnhaupt]]

Burnhaupt is the name of two communes in Haut-Rhin:

[[Bourbach]]

Bourbach is the name of two communes in Haut-Rhin:

[[Bouxwiller]]

Bouxwiller is the name of the following communes in France:

[[Homberg (disambiguation)]]

Homberg can mean:

[[Jura-Nord vaudois (district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Vaud

Jura-Nord vaudois District (District du Jura-Nord vaudois) is a district in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The capital is the city of Yverdon-les-Bains. The population (in December 2015) was 89,364.

These municipalities are part of the district:

[[Lavaux-Oron (district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Vaud

The Lavaux-Oron District (District de Lavaux-Oron) is a district in the Swiss canton of Vaud. The capital is the town of Cully.

[[Eschenbach (Göppingen)]]

Eschenbach (Alemannic German: Eschebach) is a municipality of the district Göppingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Sonntag, Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Sonntag is a municipality in the district of Bludenz in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg.

[[Breil/Brigels]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Breil/Brigels (Breil, Brigels) is a municipality of the district Surselva of the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2018 the former municipalities of Andiast and Waltensburg/Vuorz merged into the municipality of Breil/Brigels.

[[Brienz/Brinzauls]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Brienz/Brinzauls (Brinzauls) was a municipality in the district of Albula in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Brienz/Brinzauls, Alvaneu, Alvaschein, Mon, Stierva, Surava and Tiefencastel merged into the new municipality of Albula/Alvra.

[[Varzo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Piedmont

Varzo is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola in the Italian region Piedmont.

Varzo is about 130 northeast of Turin and about 35 northwest of Verbania. It is on the border with Switzerland. As of 2004 about 2,209 people lived there. It has an area of 94.4.

Varzo borders the following municipalities: Baceno, Bognanco, Crevoladossola, Crodo, Grengiols (Switzerland), Ried-Brig (Switzerland), Trasquera and Zwischbergen (Switzerland).

[[Cernay, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Cernay is a French commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

It is on the river Thur, 17 km northwest of Mulhouse.

[[Altafulla]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Altafulla is a municipality in the comarca of the Tarragonès in Catalonia, Spain.

[[Granby, Quebec]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Quebec

Granby (as of the 2011 census population 63,433) is a town in southwestern Quebec. It is between Montreal and Sherbrooke. Pascal Bonin is the mayor of Granby.

[[Cable ferry]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport, Watercraft

A cable ferry (known as chain ferry, swing ferry, floating bridge, or punt) is a ferry that is guided (and in some cases propelled) across a river by cables connected to both shores.  Early cable ferries used either rope or steel chains, with the latter resulting in the name "chain ferry".  Both of these were replaced by wire cable in the 19th century.

[[Šiauliai]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lithuania

Šiauliai is the fourth-largest city in Lithuania. In 2016 about 102,000 people lived in the city. From 1994 to 2010 it was the capital of Šiauliai County.

[[Sogod, Southern Leyte]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Philippines

Sogod is a municipality in the province of Southern Leyte, Philippines.

[[Sliema]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Malta

Sliema is a town on the northeast coast of Malta in the Northern Harbour District. It is a major residential and commercial area and a centre for shopping, dining and café life. About 26,000 people lived there in 2013.

[[Arrondissement of Saint-Claude]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Saint-Claude is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Jura département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital, and subprefecture of the department, is the city of Saint-Claude.

[[Boyd County, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Kentucky counties, 1860 establishments in Kentucky

Boyd County is a county in Kentucky. Its county seat is Catlettsburg. At the 2010 census, 49,542 people lived in the county.

[[Arrondissement of Lons-le-Saunier]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Lons-le-Saunier is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Jura département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Lons-le-Saunier.

[[Norman Dorsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, American lawyers, American educators, People from Manhattan

Norman Dorsen (September 4, 1930 – July 1, 2017) was an American lawyer. He was the Frederick I. and Grace A. Stokes Professor of Law and Co-Director of the Arthur Garfield Hays Civil Liberties Program at the New York University School of Law. 

[[Ayan Sadakov]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Bulgarian footballers, Bulgarian football managers

Ayan Faikov Sadakov (Аян Фаиков Садъков) (26 September 1961 – 1 July 2017) was a Bulgarian footballer and a key member of the Bulgarian national team in the 1986 FIFA World Cup.

Sadakov began his club career at the local Lokomotiv Plovdiv. For "The Smurfs" he played eleven seasons, before transferring to Portugal's C.F. Os Belenenses in 1989. Two years later he return in Lokomotiv and played two years, before signed with Botev Plovdiv in summer 1994. Sadakov made 80 appearances for Bulgaria, between 1981 and 1991 and scored 9 goals. He played in four matches for his country at 1986 FIFA World Cup.

Sadakov had been appointed on September 29, 2008 as a manager of Lokomotiv Plovdiv a second time to replace Dragan Kanatlarovski.

In 2014, Sadakov announced he was diagnosed with ALS. He died on 1 July 2017, aged 55.

[[Eschenbach in der Oberpfalz]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bavaria

Eschenbach in der Oberpfalz (ɛʃənbax   ɪn   de:ɐ̯   o:bɐp͡falt͡s) is a town in the Neustadt an der Waldnaab Landkreis (district), in Bavaria, Germany.

[[Smith Hart]]

CATEGORIES: Hart family members, 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Deaths from bone cancer, Cancer deaths in Canada, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Canadian professional wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from New York

Smith Stewart Hart (November 28, 1948 – July 2, 2017) was an American-Canadian professional wrestler and a member of the Hart wrestling family. His parents were Stu and Helen Hart. 

Smith was the first of their twelve children, being one of their eight sons, Bruce, Keith, Wayne, Dean, Bret, Ross and Owen followed him. 

Hart wrestled for the majority of his career in Canada but also worked shortly in other countries and was best known for his time in Stampede Wrestling and for his appearances for WWE.

On July 2, 2017, Hart died at his Calgary, Alberta home at the age of 68 of prostate and bone cancer. he suffered from cancer since January 2016.

[[Hömberg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Rhineland-Palatinate

Hömberg is a municipality in the district of Rhein-Lahn, in Rhineland-Palatinate, in western Germany.

[[Vladimir Malaniuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from kidney cancer, Cancer deaths in the Netherlands, Ukrainian sportspeople, Chess grandmasters

Vladimir Pavlovich Malaniuk (Malanyuk) (Ukraine: Володимир Павлович Маланюк; July 21, 1956 – July 2, 2017) was a Ukrainian chess Grandmaster. He was born in Arkhangelsk, Soviet Union. Thought by many to be one of the more colourful characters on the chess circuit, he was known for rapid chess, which was showed at some of the world's most well known 'speed chess' tournaments.

In 2005, he finished second at the Tallinn (Keres Memorial) rapid event, behind Alexey Shirov but ahead of such luminaries as Anatoly Karpov and Boris Gelfand. 

Malaniuk died of kidney cancer in Amsterdam on July 2, 2017 at the age of 60.

[[Orri Vigfússon]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Business people, Deaths from lung cancer, Environmentalists, Icelandic people

Orri Vigfússon (10 July 1942 – 1 July 2017) was an Icelandic entrepreneur and environmentalist. His work was to "restore the abundance of wild salmon that formerly existed on both sides of the North Atlantic". He was born in Siglufjörður, Iceland.

In 2004 Time Magazine named him a "European Hero". He was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 2007 for his efforts on saving endangered species.

Vigfússon died on 1 July 2017 in Reykjavik, Iceland of lung cancer at the age of 74.

[[Silver Donald Cameron]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Canadian educators, Canadian journalists, Canadian playwrights, Environmentalists, Writers from Toronto

Silver Donald Cameron (June 21, 1937 – June 1, 2020) was a Canadian journalist, author, playwright and university teacher. He was born in Toronto. His writing focuses on social justice, nature and the environment. 

His 15 books of non-fiction deal with everything from history and politics to education and community development. An avid sailor, Cameron has written several books about ships and the sea. He is the author of a young adult novel and a thriller, both set in Nova Scotia where he has lived for more than 40 years. 

Two of his books, The Education of Everett Richardson (1977) and The Living Beach (1998) are included in Atlantic Canada's 100 Greatest Books.

Cameron died of lung cancer in Halifax, Nova Scotia on June 1, 2020 at the age of 82.

[[Homburg]]

Homburg or Hombourg may refer to

[[Hamburg (disambiguation)]]

Hamburg, officially the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg, is Germany's second-largest city and a federated state.

Hamburg may also refer to:

[[Tatiana Zatulovskaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Azerbaijani chess players, Deaths from liver failure, Disease-related deaths in Israel, Jewish Israeli sportspeople, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Baku, Russian chess players, Russian Jews, Soviet Jews, Soviet sportspeople, Sportswomen

Tatiana Yakovlevna Zatulovskaya (טטיאנה זטולובסקיה , Татьяна Яковлевна Затуловская) (8 December 1935  – 2 July 2017) was an Israeli (formerly Soviet and Russian) chess player. She held the title of Woman Grandmaster (WGM) and was twice women's senior world champion. Her last name may also be spelled as Zatulovskaia or Zatulovskaja. Zatulovskaya was a three-time winner of the Women's Soviet Chess Championship (1960, 1962, and 1963).

[[Hamberg]]

Hamberg can be the surname of a person. It may also refer to:

[[Hamberg, North Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Dakota

Hamberg is a town in Wells County, North Dakota, United States. 21 people lived there in 2010.

[[2004 Russian Premier League]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in association football, Russian Premier League, 2000s in Russia

The 2004 Russian Premier League (Russian: Чемпионат России по футболу 2004, Chempionat Rossii po futbolu 2004) was the 3rd Russian Premier League season, and the 13th top division football tournament. It was played from 12 March to 12 November 2004. Lokomotiv Moscow won their 2nd title, and Aleksandr Kerzhakov was the top scorer with 18 goals.

[[Hombourg]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hombourg is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department in Alsace in north-eastern France.

[[Hombourg-Budange]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Moselle

Hombourg-Budange is a commune in the Moselle department in Grand Est in north-eastern France.

[[José Luis Cuevas]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Mexican painters, Photographers, Artists from Mexico City

José Luis Cuevas (February 26, 1934 – July 3, 2017) was a Mexican artist. He was born in Mexico City.

Cuevas was one of the first to challenge the then dominant Mexican muralism movement as a member of the Generación de la Ruptura (Breakaway Generation). He was a mostly self-taught artist, whose styles and influences are moored to the darker side of life, often depicting distorted figures and the debasement of humanity. He had remained a controversial figure throughout his career, not only for his often shocking images, but also for his opposition to writers and artists who he feels participate in corruption or create only for money.

In 1992, the José Luis Cuevas Museum was opened in the historic center of Mexico City holding most of his work and his personal art collection.

Cuevas died on July 3, 2017 in Mexico City at the age of 83.

[[Russian Football National League]]

CATEGORIES: Football in Russia

The Russian Football National League (Russian: Первенство Футбольной Национальной Лиги, Pervenstvo Futbol'noy Natsional'noy Ligi; previously named the Russian First Division (Russian: Первый дивизион; Pervyy divizion) is the second level of professional Russian football. The best teams in each season get promoted to the Russian Premier League, while the worst teams in each season get sent to the Professional Football League.

[[Solvi Stubing]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple myeloma, Cancer deaths in Italy, German movie actors, German television actors, German models, German television personalities, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian models, Actors from Berlin

Solvi Stubing (19 January 1941 – 3 July 2017) was a German-Italian actress, model and television personality. She was born in Berlin, Stubing obtained wide popularity in Italy with a commercial for Peroni Beer, and starred in many movies, often of modest value, in several genres of Italian cinema.  For many years, between the 1980s and the 1990s, she hosted a number of television programs about cinema. She was known for her roles in Heintje: A Heart Goes on a Journey (1969), Garringo (1969), Blindman (1971) and Strip Nude for Your Killer (1975).

Stubing died on 3 July 2017 at her home in Rome from multiple myeloma at the age of 76.

[[Paolo Villaggio]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian voice actors, Comedians, Italian movie directors, Italian writers, People from Genoa

Paolo Villaggio (ˈpaːolo vilˈladdʒo; 30 December 1932 – 3 July 2017) was an Italian actor, voice actor, writer, director and comedian. He was born in Genoa, Liguria.

He was known for the characters he created with paradoxical and rude characteristics: Professor Kranz, the ultra-timid Giandomenico Fracchia, and the comedic Ugo Fantozzi. He authored several books, usually of satirical character. He also acted in dramatic roles, and appeared in several movies.

Villaggio died in Rome of complications from diabetes on 3 July 2017 at the age of 84.

[[Murmansk State Technical University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Russia

The Murmansk State Technical University (Russian: Мурманский Государственный Технический Университет, Murmanskiy Gosudarstvennyy Tekhnicheskiy Universitet; abbreviated as MSTU in English and МГТУ in Russian) is a public university in Murmansk. It was founded in 1950 as the Murmansk High Marine School (Russian: Мурманское Высшее Мореходное Училище). There are currently around 6,000 to 8,000 students attending the university.

[[Ares (DC Comics)]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters, Wonder Woman

Ares (also known as Mars or War) is a fictional supervillain appearing in comic books published by DC Comics. Based on the Greek mythological figure of the same name, he is the Greek god of war and serves as a major adversary of the superhero Wonder Woman within the DC Universe.

The character has appeared in various forms of media. Alfred Molina voiced him in the 2009 direct-to-video animated movie Wonder Woman. Ares later made his live-action debut in the 2017 movie Wonder Woman, where he is portrayed by English actor David Thewlis.

[[Darkseid]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics aliens, Fictional characters introduced in the 1970s, Galactic emperors, DC Comics supervillains

Darkseid (pronounced "Darkside") is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by writer-artist Jack Kirby, the character made a cameo appearance in Superman's Pal Jimmy Olsen #134 (Dec. 1970) before making his full first appearance in Forever People #1 (Feb. 1971).

As the tyrannical ruler of the planet Apokolips, Darkseid's ultimate goal is to conquer the universe and eliminate all free will. One of the most powerful beings in the DC Universe, the character became a staple Superman villain and a major enemy of the Justice League. Darkseid was ranked number 6 on IGN's top 100 comic book villains of all time and number 23 on Wizard's 100 greatest villains of all time.

The character has been substantially adapted into various forms of media, most notably being voiced by Frank Welker in Super Friends: The Legendary Super Powers Show and The Super Powers Team: Galactic Guardians, by Michael Ironside in the DC animated universe, and by Andre Braugher in Superman/Batman: Apocalypse. 

After being referenced multiple times in the DC Extended Universe, Darkseid made his live-action debut in the movie Zack Snyder's Justice League with Ray Porter playing him in 2021.

[[Alfonso Arau]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors, Mexican movie directors, Mexican screenwriters, Actors from Mexico City

Alfonso Arau Incháustegui (born January 11, 1932) is a Mexican actor, screenwriter and director. He was born in Mexico City. His career began in 1954. He was known for his roles as Captain Herrera in Sam Peckinpah's 1969 western, The Wild Bunch,  chief bandit El Guapo in Three Amigos (1986), shady businessman Manuel in the comedy Used Cars (1980), and the smuggler Juan in Romancing the Stone (1984). He directed the movies Zapata: The Dream of a Hero, Like Water for Chocolate and A Walk in the Clouds.

[[The Wild Bunch]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 movies, 1960s western movies, American epic movies, American western movies, Movies set in the 1910s, Movies set in Mexico, Movies directed by Sam Peckinpah

The Wild Bunch is a 1969 American epic Western Technicolor and Panavision movie directed by Sam Peckinpah about an aging outlaw gang on the Texas–Mexico border, trying to exist in the changing modern world of 1913. The movie was controversial because of its graphic violence and its portrayal of crude men attempting to survive by any available means.

The movie, whose screenplay was written by Peckinpah and Walon Green, stars William Holden, Robert Ryan, Ernest Borgnine, Ben Johnson, Alfonso Arau and Warren Oates. It was filmed in Mexico.

[[Murmansk]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Russia, 1915 establishments, 20th century establishments in Russia

Murmansk (Russian: Му́рманск) is a port city in northwestern Russia. It is located within the Murmansk Oblast. As of 2019, the city has a population of 292,465 people.

[[Old Synagogue (Erfurt)]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Thuringia, Erfurt, Jewish history, Middle Ages, Museums in Germany, Synagogues

The Old Synagogue (German:Alte Synagoge) in Erfurt, in central Germany, is one of the best preserved medieval synagogues in Europe. The oldest parts were built in the late 11th century. Most parts of the building are from around 1250 to 1320. In 2015 it was proposed as a World Heritage Site.  

It has been a museum of local Jewish history since 2009. The Erfurt Treasure is kept there. This is a collection of medieval coins, jewellery and metalwork found in 1998. The museum also has copies of the Erfurt Hebrew Manuscripts. This is a collection of rare religious manuscripts that belonged to the Jewish community of Erfurt in the middle ages.

[[Hindu reform movements]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in India, Hinduism

Hindu reform movements in the nineteenth society had many evils prevailing in it like Sati (The practice that a woman will burn herself alive at the funeral pyre of her husband), female infanticide ,polygamy , child marriage etc.

[[Color rendering index]]

CATEGORIES: Color, Light

Color rendering index (CRI) is a number rating given to light bulbs or lamps for how "right" they make colors look. This number is usually written on the side of light bulb's box. The CRI number can be as high as 100, or as low as zero; and sometimes it can go under zero. High CRI number is good; it means colors will look right and real. Low CRI number is bad; it means colors will look wrong and weird.

However, there is a limit of what a CRI number can tell. Good CRI number can guarantee correct colors only when the light itself is white. This is because of limits on how science people test them. Candles and incandescent light bulbs have CRI 100 but they are not white, so we cannot rely on them to make stuffs show real colors.

The CRI number of daylight at noon is 100, because this is the natural way people see colors. Good fluorescent tubes or LED lamps have a CRI 80 or more. Anything white with a CRI 80 or more are good enough for homes. The orange sodium vapor lamp has CRI lower than 0, so they are only used as streetlamps.

[[Kataragama temple]]

CATEGORIES: Sri Lanka, Temples

The Kataragamam temple (Ruhuṇu Kataragama Dēvālaya, Katirkāmam Murukaṉ Kōyil) complex dedicated to Skanda-Kumara is one of the few religious sites in Sri Lanka that is venerated by the majority Sinhala Buddhists, Hindu minority Sri Lankan Tamil people, Sri Lankan Moors and the Vedda people. It is a collection of modest shrines, of which the one dedicated to Skanda-Kumara, is the most important.

It has been considered hallowed ground since almost three hundred years before the birth of Christ, and is one of the sixteen places said to have been consecrated by Gautama Buddha as he meditated. It was built approximately between 1100 - 15th century 

Legend has it that this happened during the Buddha's third visit to Sri Lanka, during the reign of the provincial King Mahasena in the sixth century BC.

Kataragama is sacred to Lord Murugan, also familiarly known as Kartikeya. Lord Muruga has many shrines and places of worship. Among them are  Alaivai, now known as Tiruchendur, a shrine on the southern coast of India about 36 miles from Tinnevelly; Avinankudi, now called as Palani Malai (Palani Hills), about the same distance from Dindigul; and Tiru-Erakam, now known as Swamimalai, a hill about four miles from Kumbakonam. Three of the shrines are situated amid mountains and forests, the deity is known as the God of the mountaneous regions.

Muruga is worshipped as a deity whom embodies the pure Hindu ideal of God being in all things and manifesting himself wherever he is called to with love.There are many stories about Murugan, or Skanda-Kumara as He is more commonly known there. Skanda-Kumara's place of worship is held dear by many Sri Lankans who consider the Kataragama complex and its temples holy and make annual pilgrimages there.

But perhaps the most unique feature of Kataragama, and what makes it really stand out is its relative unassumingness. Almost all its shrines are unremarkable minor buildings free of any embellishment. There is absolutely no representation of deities decorating the exterior of the buildings.

This is in marked contrast to any other Hindu temple in Sri Lanka or India, that are usually covered with carvings and statues of gods and goddesses in colourful scene. Practically all the shrines are made out of stone with the exception of one dedicated to the Goddess Valli which has been constructed with timber.

Almost 2500 years later, Kataragama still holds a special place in the heart of devotees of Lord Muruga'''

[[Quaestor]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome, Public administration

A quaestor (uk, us) was a public official in Ancient Rome. A quaestor did different jobs at different times in Roman history. In the Roman Kingdom, quaestors were appointed by the king to investigate murders. In the Roman Republic, quaestors supervised the state treasury and conducted audits. It was the lowest ranking position in the public service. Because of this many people wanting to become politicians became quaestors as a first step in their career. In the Roman Empire, quaestors were at first relaced by the praefectus (prefect). Later quaestors became a position appointed by the emperor to lead the imperial council and deal with petitioners.

In modern Italy and Romania, a quaestor is a senior ranking officer on the police force. In some organizations, a quaestor is in charge of the finances, similar to a treasurer in other organizations.

[[Moscow Oblast]]

CATEGORIES: Oblasts of Russia, Federal subjects of Russia

The Moscow Oblast (Russian: Моско́вская о́бласть, Moskovskaya oblast) is a federal subject of Russia. It is located in western Russia, and it completely surrounds Moscow. The oblast has no capital, and oblast officials reside in Moscow or in other cities within the oblast. As of 2015, the oblast has a population of 7,231,068 people.

Balashikha is the biggest city in the oblast, with a population of 215,494 people in 2010.

[[FC Spartak Vladikavkaz]]

CATEGORIES: Russian football clubs, 1921 establishments, 1920s establishments in the Soviet Union

Football Club Spartak Vladikavkaz (Russian: Футбольный клуб «Спартак» Владикавказ, Futbol'nyy klub «Spartak» Vladikavkaz) is a football club based in Vladikavkaz. The club was founded in 1921, and won their first league title in the 1995 Russian Top League.

[[Water taxi]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport, Watercraft

A water taxi (also known as a water bus or sightseeing boat,) is a watercraft used to provide public or private transport in an urban area. A water taxi might make multiple stops, similar to a bus, or to on-demand locations, similar to a taxi. A boat service going between two points would normally be called a ferry rather than a water bus or taxi.

[[Daniil Granin]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Soviet writers, Russian writers

Daniil Alexandrovich Granin (Дании́л Алекса́ндрович Гра́нин) (1 January 1919 – 4 July 2017), original family name German (Ге́рман),

was an author born in the former Soviet Union. Granin started writing in the 1930s. Granin served as a board member of the Leningrad Union of Writers, and he was a winner of many medals and honors including the State Prize for Literature in 1978 and Hero of Socialist Labor 1989.

[[Chris Roberts (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Germany, German movie actors, German singers, People from Munich

Chris Roberts (Christian Klusáček; March 13, 1946 – July 2, 2017) was a German Schlager singer and actor. He was married to the singer and actress Claudia Roberts. They often performed on stage together. He was born in Munich.

Roberts represented Luxembourg as a part of a sextet in the Eurovision Song Contest 1985 in which they sang "Children, Kinder, Enfants". They got 37 points and came 13th place overall.

The first two singles Baby's gone and Welchen Weg soll ich gehen (One more mountain to climb) were released with his artist name Chris Robert.

Roberts died in Berlin of pancreatic cancer on July 2, 2017 at the age of 71.

[[Jack Collom]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from respiratory failure, Cancer deaths in Colorado, Disease-related deaths in Colorado, American poets, American educators, American essayists, Writers from Colorado, Writers from Chicago

John Aldridge "Jack" Collom (November 8, 1931 – July 2, 2017) was an American poet, essayist, and pedagogue. His twenty-five books include Red Car Goes By: Selected Poems 1955-2000, Situation Sings (with Lyn Hejinian), and Second Nature, which won the 2013 Colorado Book Award for Poetry. 

In the field of education and pedagogy, he made unique contributions in the subjects of eco-literature, ecopoetics, and creative writing instruction for children.

Collon died in Boulder, Colorado from respiratory failure caused by lung cancer on July 2, 2017, aged 85.

[[Adriano Galliani]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Italian businesspeople, Sportspeople from Lombardy, People from Monza

Adriano Galliani (born 30 July 1944) is an Italian entrepreneur and football executive. He served as Deputy vice-chairman and CEO of AC Milan since 1986. During his tenure, Milan have won five European Cup / UEFA Champions League and eight Serie A titles among other achievements.

In 2011, Galliani was inducted into the Italian Football Hall of Fame.

[[Amala Shankar]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2020 deaths, Indian movie actors, Ballerinas, Indian dancers

Amala Shankar (অমলা শংকর; 27 June 1919 – July 24, 2020) was an Indian ballerina, actress and artist. She is the wife of Uday Shankar and mother of Ananda Shankar and Mamata Shankar and sister-in-law of Ravi Shankar. Shankar acted in the movie Kalpana directed by Uday Shankar.

Shankar acted in the movie Kalpana (1948). The movie was directed by Uday Shankar. Amala played the character of Uma. Amala Shankar attended 2012 Cannes Film Festival where the movie was screened.

Shankar died in Kolkata on July 24, 2020 at the age of 101.

[[West Ruislip tube station]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Hillingdon, London Underground stations

West Ruislip is a station located on Ickenham Road between Ickenham and Ruislip in the London Borough of Hillingdon in Greater London formerly in Middlesex; it is served by both London Underground (LU) and National Rail trains on independent platforms. It is the western terminus of the LU Central line's West Ruislip branch, with Ruislip Gardens as the next Underground station towards central London. The Central line and Chiltern Railways platforms and ticket office hall are managed by LU. The closest station on the Metropolitan line and Piccadilly line is Ickenham which is 1.1 km from West Ruislip Station.

[[2017 Latvian local elections]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in Europe, 2017 elections, June 2017 events

Local elections in Latvia were held on 3 June 2017. All 119 municipal councils of the country took part in the elections.

[[List of places in Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of settlements in England, Settlements in Kent

The following is a list of cities, towns and villages in the county of Kent, England, by letter:  

compactTOC 

[[ME postcode area]]

CATEGORIES: South East England, Postal codes

The ME postcode area, also known as the Rochester postcode area, is a group of twenty postcode districts around Medway in Kent, England, the letters in the postcode are derived from. The area is divided into eleven post towns and extends into the districts of Tonbridge and Malling, Swale, Gravesham and Maidstone, as well as all of Medway.

[[List of postcode areas in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Postal codes

The United Kingdom is divided by Royal Mail into postcode areas. The postcode area is the largest geographical unit used and forms the first characters of the alphanumeric UK postcode.

[[Rudy Rotta]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Italy, Blues musicians, Italian musicians, Guitarists

Rudy Rotta (14 October 1950 – 3 July 2017) was an Italian blues guitarist.

Rotta was born in Villadossola, Italy, but was raised in Lucerne, Switzerland where his family emigrated. He began his career in Switzerland at the age of 14, but eventually returned to Verona. 

Over his career, he played with a number of well-known blues artists including Brian Auger, John Mayall, Robben Ford and Peter Green. 

Rotta died on 3 July 2017 in Verona from pancreatic cancer, aged 66.

[[Gene Conley]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Boston Braves players, Milwaukee Braves players, Philadelphia Phillies players, Boston Red Sox players, Boston Celtics players, New York Knicks players, Sportspeople from Oklahoma

Donald Eugene "Gene" Conley (November 10, 1930 – July 4, 2017) was a Major League Baseball pitcher and basketball player of the NBA. He was born in Muskogee, Oklahoma.

Conley played 11 seasons from 1952 to 1963 for four different teams. Conley also played forward in the 1952–53 NBA season and from 1958 to 1964 for two teams in the National Basketball Association. 

He was best known for being one of only two people (the other being Otto Graham–1946 NBL and AAFC Championship, plus three more AAFC and three NFL championships) to win championships in two of the four major American sports, one with the Milwaukee Braves in the 1957 World Series and three Boston Celtics championships from 1959–61.

Conley died in Foxborough, Massachusetts on July 4, 2017 at the age of 86.

[[Joachim Meisner]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Deaths from cardiac arrest, German Roman Catholics, People from former German territories, People from Wrocław, Roman Catholic archbishops

Joachim Meisner (25 December 1933 – 5 July 2017) was a German Cardinal of the Catholic Church. He was born in Breslau, Germany (modern Wrocław, Poland).

Meisner was the immediate past Archbishop of Cologne, serving from 1989 until his resignation was accepted by Pope Francis in 2014. He previously served as Bishop of Berlin from 1980 to 1989, and was created a cardinal in 1983. He was widely considered to be Germany's leading conservative Roman Catholic figure.

Meisner died on 5 July 2017 while vacationing in Bad Füssing in Bavaria of cardiac arrest, aged 83.

[[Jens Christian Skou]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2018 deaths, Danish scientists, Chemists, Psychologists, Danish Nobel Prize winners

ChemistryJens Christian Skou (ˈjɛns kʁæsdjæn ˈsɡʌʊ̯ˀ; October 8, 1918 – May 28, 2018) was a Danish medical doctor and Nobel laureate. He was born in Lemvig, Denmark. In 1997, he received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry (together with Paul D. Boyer and John E. Walker) for his discovery of Na+,K+-ATPase.

Skou died on 28 May 2018 in Aarhus, Denmark at the age of 99, five months short of his 100th birthday.

[[Strood railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Medway, 1856 establishments in Europe, 1850s establishments in England

Strood railway station is a railway station in Strood in Kent. The station is near the town centre. It is in walking distance from the high street and Rochester. The station is on the North Kent Line.

[[Rochester railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Medway

Rochester railway station is a railway station in Rochester in Kent. The station is in walking distance to/from the high street. The station is on the Chatham Main Line.

[[Chatham railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Medway, 1858 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1850s establishments in England

Chatham railway station is a railway station in Chatham in Kent. The station is roughly a 10-15 minute walk to/from the Pentagon Shopping Centre and the high street.

[[John Rodriguez]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Guyanese politicians, Canadian mayors, Politicians from Ontario, Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Ontario

John R. Rodriguez (February 12, 1937 – July 5, 2017) was a Guyanaese-born Canadian politician. He was born in Georgetown, Guyana. He served as the mayor of Greater Sudbury, Ontario from 2006 to 2010, and previously represented the electoral district of Nickel Belt in the Canadian House of Commons from 1972 to 1980 and from 1984 to 1993 as a member of the New Democratic Party.

Rodriguez died on July 5, 2017 in Greater Sudbury, Ontario of heart failure at the age of 80.

[[Choi Eun-hee]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, South Korean movie actors, Crime victims

Choi Eun-hee (November 20, 1926 – April 16, 2018) was a South Korean actress. She began her movie career in 1947 in the movie A New Oath. For the next 20 years, she was one of the biggest stars in Korean movies and led the Shin Film company along with her husband, the director Shin Sang-ok. She was born in Gwangju, Gyeonggi.

[[2019 Africa Cup of Nations]]

CATEGORIES: Africa Cup of Nations, 2019 in association football, 2019 in Africa, Sport in Cameroon, June 2019 events, July 2019 events

The 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (also called AFCON 2019 and CAN 2019) was the 32nd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations tournament. The tournament to be hosted by Cameroon, but on January 9th CAF changed the host. Egypt was the host of this tournament. It was held from 21 June to 19 July 2019.

[[2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualification Group J]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualification

Group J of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualification tournament is one of 12 groups to decide what team will qualify to play in the final tournament. The group includes four teams: Egypt, Niger, Swaziland and Tunisia.

[[2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualification Group D]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualification

Group D of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualification tournament is one of 12 groups to decide what team will qualify to play in the final tournament. The group includes four teams: Algeria, Benin, Gambia and Togo.

[[2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualification Group E]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualification

Group E of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualification tournament is one of 12 groups to decide what team will qualify to play in the final tournament. The group includes four teams: Nigeria, South Africa, Libya, and Seychelles.

[[Manyogana]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems

Man'yōgana is the oldest known sound-based writing system used for the Japanese language. When kanji, or Chinese characters used to write Japanese, first came to Japan in around the 4th century AD through the Korean Peninsula, it was only used to write the Chinese language. Even though Chinese was not native to the Japanese people, classical Chinese writings were nonetheless studied heavily by upper-class Japanese. Some time later, although the exact time is unknown, Chinese characters, which came be known as kanji in Japan, was being used to write the Japanese language for the first time in roughly the 6th century AD, although it had a heavy Chinese influence.

Figuring out how to write the Chinese character system to correctly fit the Japanese language was quite a difficult task, since there were such big differences between Chinese and Japanese. For example, Chinese has an SVO (subject-verb-object) word order (i.e. I eat sushi), while Japanese has an SOV word order (i.e. I sushi eat). Also, while Chinese morphemes, or the smallest meaningful part of a word, are usually monosyllabic, or having just one syllable, Japanese words often were polysyllabic, or having two or more syllables. Examples of this include 山, 魚, 中, 国, 人, 多, 速 and 見. In Mandarin Chinese, the most spoken Chinese dialect in the world, these morphemes are pronounced shān, yú, zhōng, guó, rén, duō, sù and kàn in that order, all of which are just one syllable. In the native Japanese pronunciation, however, these morphemes are pronounced yama, sakana, naka, kuni, hito, oo, haya and mi(ru). What makes all this more complicated is that the last three kanji are almost never written by themselves in Japanese, if at all, since they are usually used in adjectives, verbs, and adverbs. 

Writing characters by themselves is often okay in Chinese, since Chinese is an analytic language, or a language where grammar is structured by word order, but Japanese is highly inflectional, meaning that grammar is structured by word endings. For that reason, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs almost always have at least two morphemes, the first being the derivational morpheme, or the part of the word with the root meaning, and the second and others after it are called inflectional morphemes, or parts of the word added to show a word's grammar. For example, a word that uses the character 見 is 見る mi(ru),  where the first morpheme, the kanji being 見 and its pronunciation being mi, has the root meaning "see", the second syllable ru shows that the word is a verb, making it into the word "to see". The adjective 多い oo(i) is made up of the morpheme 多 oo, meaning "many", and the morpheme い i, showing that the word is an adjective. The last examples are the two words 速い haya(i) and 速く haya(ku). While the first morpheme in both words are the two syllables 速 haya, meaning "fast",  the い i　in 速い makes the word into an adjective while the く ku in 速く hayaku turns the word into an adverb, thus the word becomes "quickly".

Due to the many differences that existed between Chinese and Japanese, the Chinese character system had to be changed to fit spoken Japanese, if it were to be understood by native Japanese speakers. The first solution the Japanese came up with was to use Chinese characters for their pronunciation and not for the meaning of the word. These were called man'yōgana, which was named after the Man'yōshu, a collection of Japanese poems that wrote Japanese using the man'yōgana. While Chinese characters used for their meaning became known as kanji, the Chinese characters being used only for pronunciation became known as man'yōgana. Man'yōgana consisted of roughly 970 Chinese characters that could be used to represent roughly the roughly 90 different morae used in the Japanese language. 

For example, while the character 山 means "mountain" in Japanese, the character itself was usually used only for Chinese loanwords, or words borrowed from the Chinese language, such as 富士山 Fuji-san, meaning "Mt. Fuji”，火山kazan, meaning "volcano”，and 山村 sanson, meaning "mountain village". Words borrowed from the Chinese language would use on'yomi (in Japanese, the on'yomi for やま is san,  zan, sen, or zen), or pronunciations borrowed from Chinese, instead of kun'yomi, or native Japanese pronunciations. During the early days of Japanese writing, native Japanese words were largely written using man'yōgana instead of kanji. For example, while the kanji for "mountain" is 山, and the kun'yomi for the word is yama, the native Japanese word would be written as 耶麻, 八馬, 矢間, 也麻, etc. to distinguish it from being a Chinese loanword, or kango.

While a modern Japanese sentence could be written like this: 私はすしを食べます Watashi-wa sushi-o tabemasu (meaning: I eat sushi), the same sentence written entirely in man'yōgana could be written as 和多氏巴寿司鳥他邊麻須, giving it a more Chinese look. Or, if someone wanted to keep all the kanji the same but replace all the modern kana, the sentence would look like this 私巴寿司鳥食邊麻須.

Although man'yōgana gave the Japanese a means to represent spoken Japanese on paper, sentences written in man'yōgana were quite difficult to read. Since Chinese characters were used for both representing the meaning of words and pronunciation, a lot of confusion could happen when a native Japanese speaker would read something written in both kanji and man'yōgana. The above examples in man'yōgana would be difficult for even a native Japanese speaker to read, especially for a modern Japanese person. On top of all that, writing everything down quickly was nearly impossible, since an entire Chinese character was needed to write down a simple Japanese syllable, some of which could have been written by up to 30 strokes of a pen.

In order to write faster, use fewer written characters, and read more easily, Japanese writers created simpler kana, or written characters to represent Japanese syllables. Buddhist monks created katakana by only using pieces of kanji so that they could write down spoken teachings more quickly. Upper-class women would use the kanji they knew and wrote cursive forms of these kanji. These became known as hiragana. While they were created separately, they later replaced man'yōgana as the main sound-based writing systems. While most sound-based writing today uses hiragana and katakana, man'yōgana is still used to write some modern Japanese words. 

These examples are called ateji. Some examples include 寿司 sushi, 亜細亜 Ajia (Asia)、亜米利加 Amerika (America)、仏蘭西 Furansu (France)、阿弗利加 Afurika (Africa)、沢山 takusan and 珈琲 kōhī (coffee)。

Sometimes, like in the case of 仏蘭西, these are the old spellings of the names of places before the Japanese decided to represent all non-Chinese loanwords with katanana. Other times, the ateji is used since the Chinese characters are more well-known in different countries than the hiragana and the katana, an example being that the Chinese can recognize 寿司, since both characters also exist in Chinese, rather than すし, since neither character exists in Chinese. While the Chinese characters for "coffee" is 咖啡, the Japanese 珈琲 is close enough that Chinese could figure it out with a little guesswork.

[[Knut Hamsun]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian writers, Norwegian Nobel Prize winners, Nobel Prize in Literature winners

Knut Hamsun (1859-1952) was a Norwegian author and winner of the Nobel Prize in literature, in 1920.

An obituary he wrote for Adolf Hitler9 was published on 7 May 1945 in Aftenposten (a newspaper).

[[Shanghainese food]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese food

Shanghainese food is the traditional food of Shanghai, China. It is a kind of Chinese food. Examples are xiaolongbao, spiced broad beans, and hairy crabs.

[[Notes from the psychoanalysis of Knut Hamsun]]

CATEGORIES: Psychiatry, Psychology

During the psychoanalysis of Knut Hamsun, notes were made by his psychoanalyst, Johannes Irgens Strømme; sometimes the notes are referred to as the Strømme/Hamsun manuscript (Norwegian: Strømme/Hamsun-manuset).

Hamsun died in 1952 and copies of the notes were published in 2017; the publication is controversial (as of 2017).9-15

The existence of the notes led to a race between a group related to community of persons who do research a living, and a group related to publishing.9

Danish author Thorkild Hansen (en:) has said that the notes must certainly be viewed as an extremely important source.10

Media sometimes refers to (as of May 2017,) the notes as "the classified notes".9

[[Gillingham (Kent) railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Medway

Gillingham railway station is a railway station in Gillingham in Kent. The station is in walking distance of the high street. The station is on the Chatham Main Line.

[[Rainham (Kent) railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Medway

Rainham railway station is a railway station in Rainham in Kent. The station is in walking distance from the Rainham shopping centre. The station is on the Chatham Main Line.

[[Gillingham railway station]]

Gillingham railway station may mean:

[[Rainham railway station]]

Rainham railway station may mean:

[[Rochester railway station (disambiguation)]]

Rochester railway station or Rochester station may mean:

[[Durchhausen]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Durchhausen is a municipality of the district Tuttlingen in the German state of Baden-Württemberg.

[[Brusio]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Brusio is a municipality in the district of Bernina in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Mr. Trash Wheel]]

CATEGORIES: Baltimore, Maryland, Waste

Mr. Trash Wheel also known as the Inner Harbor Trash Wheel, is a trash interceptor. It removes trash from the Inner Harbor in Baltimore, Maryland. It is powered by water and solar power. It moves through the water and sorts trash into a conveyor belt that empties it into a dumpster on the vessel.

[[Buchs, St. Gallen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of St. Gallen, Cities in Switzerland

Buchs is a small city in Werdenberg in the canton of St. Gallen in Switzerland.

[[B&Q]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United Kingdom, 1969 establishments in the United Kingdom

B&Q plc is a British DIY and home improvement retailing company in the United Kingdom. Its main offices are in Eastleigh, Hampshire, England. It is owned by Kingfisher plc.

It was founded in 1969 by Richard Block and David Quayle as Block & Quayle.

As of July 2017, B&Q has 300 shops in the United Kingdom.  

Since 2015, B&Q have been closing a number of stores, and converting some to outlets of Screwfix. The company also has some outlets in Ireland. Stores in Taiwan and China were unsuccessful, and closed down in 2007 and 2015.

[[Buseno]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Buseno is a municipality in the district Moesa in the Swiss canton of Graubünden.

[[Pierre Henry]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, French composers, People from Paris

Pierre Henry (9 December 1927 – 5 July 2017) was a French composer. He was considered a pioneer of the musique concrète genre of electronic music. He was born in Paris. Among Henry's works is the 1967 ballet Messe pour le temps présent. In 1970 Henry collaborated with British rock band Spooky Tooth on the album Ceremony.

Henry died at a hospital in Paris on 5 July 2017 at the age of 89.

[[Ybbs]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Austria, Lower Austria

The Ybbs is a river in Lower Austria. Its source is on the Zellerrain Pass near Mariazell. 

Ybbs is also the common short form for the small town Ybbs an der Donau.

[[Oberthal, Saarland]]

Oberthal is a municipality in the district of Sankt Wendel in the state of Saarland, Germany. It is about 7 km northwest of Sankt Wendel, and 35 km north of Saarbrücken.

The Oberthal municipality exists of four settlements (people in brackets, as of 2012)

[[T. Berry Brazelton]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winners, 1918 births, 2018 deaths, American physicians, American television presenters, Writers from Texas, People from Waco, Texas

Thomas Berry Brazelton (May 10, 1918 – March 13, 2018) was an American pediatrician, television host and author. He was the developer of the Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale (NBAS). Brazelton hosts the cable television program What Every Baby Knows, and writes a syndicated newspaper column. Brazelton has written more than two hundred scholarly papers and twenty four books.

In 1994, Brazelton won the first Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lifestyle/Culinary Show Host.

Brazelton was born in Waco, Texas. He graduated in 1940 from Princeton and in 1943 from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York City. He died in Barnstable, Massachusetts on March 13, 2018 at the age of 99.

[[Zürich Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Switzerland, Zürich, 1948 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Switzerland

Zürich Airport (Flughafen Zürich, ZRH), is an international airport serving Zürich. It is the largest hub of Swiss International Air Lines. It is 13 north of central Zürich, in the municipalities of Kloten, Oberglatt, Rümlang, Winkel and Opfikon, all of which are within the canton of Zurich. It was opened in 1948. It is also known as Kloten Airport.

[[Chalampé]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Chalampé is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France. The town was founded by soldiers of Marshal Dubourg who in 1709 had beaten the Austrians under Count Claude Florimond de Mercy in the War of the Spanish Succession.

[[Athens, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Athens is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is the county seat of Athens County.

[[Cuxton]]

CATEGORIES: Medway, Villages in Kent

Cuxton is a village in Medway in South East England. It is on left side of the River Medway in the North Downs. It also has a railway station, Cuxton railway station.

[[Arrondissements of the Haute-Saône department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 2 arrondissements in the Haute-Saône department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Haute-Saône are:

[[Adam Schiff]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, United States representatives from California, Politicians from Massachusetts, US Democratic Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Adam Bennett Schiff (born June 22, 1960) is an American politician. He is the U.S. Representative for CA. He has served in Congress since 2001. He is a member of the Democratic Party. 

Schiff represented the 27th and 29th Districts between 2001 and 2013, which included the areas of Alhambra, Altadena, San Gabriel, Burbank, Glendale, South Pasadena, Temple City, Monterey Park, and Pasadena. 

Schiff has become an influential voice for his party in the House of Representatives on foreign policy and national security issues.

[[Larry Lieber]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, American comics artists, American comics writers, Stan Lee, Writers from New York City

Larry D. Lieber (ˈ; born October 26, 1931) is an American comic book artist and writer. He is the younger brother of Marvel Comics' writer, editor, and publisher Stan Lee.

Lieber is best known for scripting the first appearances of the Marvel characters Iron Man, Thor, and Ant-Man; for his long stint both writing and drawing the Marvel Western Rawhide Kid; and for illustrating the newspaper comic strip The Amazing Spider-Man for many years and continuing as of August 2016. From 1974 to 1975, he was editor of Atlas/Seaboard Comics.

[[Johnny Gosch]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Kidnapped American people, Des Moines, Iowa

Johnny Gosch (born November 12, 1969) was a paperboy in West Des Moines, Iowa. He disappeared at age 12, while delivering newspapers. In the early hours of September 5, 1982, he disappeared on his route and was never seen since. Gosch is believed to be kidnapped. His mother got mail one morning in 1997 showing the photos of her kidnapped son and three other boys. Another paperboy disappeared where Johnny was kidnapped, named Eugene Martin, 13 years old.

His mother, Noreen Gosch, maintains that Johnny Gosch escaped from his captors and visited her in 1997, but now fears for his life and lives under an assumed identity. Gosch's father, John, divorced from Noreen since 1993, has publicly stated that he was not sure whether or not such a visit actually occurred. Authorities have not located Gosch or confirmed Noreen Gosch's account, and his fate continues to be the subject of speculation, conspiracy theories, and dispute.The case received publicity in 2006 when his mother claimed to have found photographs on her doorstep depicting Gosch in captivity. Some of the photos received were proven to be children from a case in Florida, but one boy in the photos was never identified. Noreen Gosch insists that boy is her son Johnny.

[[Willi Reschke]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Nazis, German military personnel of World War II

Willi Reschke (3 February 1922 – 5 July 2017) was a German Luftwaffe ace. He was the recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross during World War II.

Reschke was credited with 26 aerial victories in 70 missions. In 1999, Reschke recounted his wartime experiences in print, published in English in 2005 as "Jagdgeschwader 301/302 'Wilde Sau': In Defense Of The Reich with the Bf 109, Fw 190 and Ta 152;" including writing about the late-war period he spent flying the exotic Focke-Wulf Ta 152 high-altitude fighter-interceptor designed by Kurt Tank.

Reschke died on 5 July 2017 in Berlin at the age of 95.

[[Minos Kyriakou]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Greek businesspeople

Minos Xenophon "Minas" Kyriakou (Μίνως (Μηνάς) Κυριακού; 31 May 1942 – 2 July 2017) was a Greek media and shipping magnate and businessman. He was the president of the Greek Olympic Committee and was the President of the International Olympic Academy (IOA, 2004-2009). He was elected to the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) council in August 2003. He was born in Poros, Greece.

Kyriakou died of a heart attack on 2 July 2017 at a hospital in Athens, aged 75.

[[Joaquín Navarro-Valls]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Italy, Spanish educators, Spanish journalists, Spanish physicians, Spanish Roman Catholics

Joaquín Navarro-Valls, M.D. (16 November 1936 – 5 July 2017) was a Spanish journalist, physician and academic. He served as the Director of the Holy See Press Office from 1984 to 2006. He was born in Cartagena, Spain.

His role as the press liaison between the Vatican and the world press corps gave him perhaps the highest visibility of any one person in the Vatican during the long reign of Pope John Paul II, with the exception of the Pope himself. He resigned his post July 11, 2006 and was replaced by Father Federico Lombardi. 

On January 20, 2007, he was named president of the board of advisers of the Biomedical University of Rome, an office he occupied until his death.

Navarro-Valls died in Rome, Italy on 5 July 2017 of pancreatic cancer, aged 80.

[[Joan B. Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Stan Lee, English voice actors, English models, American voice actors, American models, Actors from New York City

Joan Boocock Lee (Joan Clayton Boocock; February 5, 1922 - July 6, 2017) was a English-born American hat model and actress. She was known for her 69-year marriage to comic book writer Stan Lee. 

In the 1940s, Lee was a hat model in New York City when she met Stan Lee. In her later years, she became a voice actress and provided her voice in Spider-Man and Fantastic Four both in the 1990s. 

Lee died on July 6, 2017 in Los Angeles from stroke-related complications after being hospitalized for a week. She was 95 years old.

[[This Is How We Do]]

CATEGORIES: Katy Perry songs, Pop songs, 2014 songs

"This is How We Do" is a dance-pop and electropop song from American singer and songwriter Katy Perry. It comes off her fourth studio album Prism (2013). The song was released on August 11, 2014. It was the fifth and final single from the album. The remix has the rapper Riff Raff rapping on it.  She wrote the song with longtime collaborators Max Martin and Klas Åhlund, who produced it.

Commercially, the song hit the top ten in Canada and Israel. It also hit the top 30 in the United States, Sweden, Venezuela, Finland and Scotland. It was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America for shipments of over one million copies in the US alone.

The song is about Perry's hangout routine with her friends. The video has Perry getting her nails painted and doing karaoke with her friends. Perry was accused of cultural appropriation for wearing black cornrows. The video has received over 600 million views on YouTube as of March 2018.

[[Junior Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, NASCAR drivers, Sportspeople from North Carolina

Robert Glenn Johnson, Jr.  (June 28, 1931 – December 20, 2019), better known as Junior Johnson, was a NASCAR driver of the 1950s and 1960s. He won 50 NASCAR races in his career before retiring in 1966.

In the 1970s and 1980s, he became a NASCAR racing team owner; he sponsored such NASCAR champions as Cale Yarborough and Darrell Waltrip. He now produces a line of fried pork skins and country ham. He was credited as the first to use the drafting technique in stock car racing.

He was nicknamed "The Last American Hero" and his autobiography is of the same name. In May 2007, Johnson teamed with Piedmont Distillers of Madison, North Carolina, to introduce the company's second moonshine product, called "Midnight Moon Moonshine".

Johnson died at a hospice care facility in Charlotte, North Carolina on December 20, 2019, at age 88. He had Alzheimer's disease at the time of his death.

[[Bryan Avery]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, English architects, People from Berkshire, Businesspeople from London

Bryan Robert Avery MBE RIBA (2 January 1944 – 4 July 2017) was an English architect. He was born in Berkshire, England. He was best known for designing the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA).

After his childhood years spent in Lymington in the New Forest, Hampshire, he studied architecture at Leicester College of Art (now the De Montfort University), followed by a MA in the History and Theory of Architecture at Essex University under Professors Joseph Rykwert and Dalibor Vesely.

Avery died in London at the age of 73 on 4 July 2017.

[[You Keep Me Hangin' On]]

CATEGORIES: pop songs, 1966 songs

"You Keep Me Hangin' On" is a soul-pop ballad from American Motown music group The Supremes. It was released in late 1966. The lyrics speak of a bad relationship the singer is trying to get out of. The song's signature guitar part comes from a Morse code-like radio sound effect.

The song reached #1 on the United States Billboard Hot 100 in 1966.

American music group Vanilla Fudge recorded a rock version of the song in 1967. It peaked at #6 on Billboard Hot 100. Their single version is almost three minutes long. The album version is seven minutes and twenty seconds long.

In 1986, British singer Kim Wilde had a version of the song. In June 1987, it hit #1 on Billboard Hot 100. The song also hit #1 in Australia and #2 in the United Kingdom.

[[Nochebuena]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays

Nochebuena (literally "good night") is the Spanish word for Christmas Eve. In Spain, Latin America, and the Philippines, the evening consists of a traditional family dinner. Roasted pig is often the center of Nochebuena for feasts around the world.

[[Ancient Order of the Rosicrucians]]

CATEGORIES: Religions

Rosicrucianism, or the Rosicrucian religion, is a combination of many different religions. It has occult elements and other religious beliefs and practices. These include Hermeticism, Jewish mysticism, and Christian Gnosticism. Members possess what they believe is secret wisdom that was handed down to them from ancient times.

[[Alternative for Germany]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in Europe, 2010s establishments in Germany, Nationalist organizations in Europe, Political parties in Germany, Eurosceptic parties

Alternative for Germany (German: Alternative für Deutschland, shortened AfD) is a German right-wing political party.

In the 2017 federal election, the party won 94 seats after receiving 12.6% of the national vote.

[[Buttelstedt]]

Buttelstedt is a town in the Weimarer Land district, in Thuringia, Germany. It is 11 km north of Weimar.

[[White Christmas (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas music, 1940s songs, Pop songs, Frank Sinatra songs

"White Christmas" is a popular song about an old-fashioned Christmas setting. It mixes sadness and comforts of home. The version sung by Bing Crosby is said to be the world's best-selling single.

The song has been covered and performed by artists including Jo Stafford, Frank Sinatra, Ella Fitzgerald and Bette Midler. It has sold over 150 million copies.

The original version was released in 1942.

Irving Berlin's opening verse is often dropped in many recordings. However, the opening verse is included on Barbra Streisand, Darlene Love and The Carpenters' Christmas studio albums.

The opening verse has the lyrics:

[[Ouest lausannois (district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Vaud

The Ouest lausannois District is a district in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The capital of the district is Renens.

[[Homebase]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United Kingdom, 1979 establishments in the United Kingdom

Homebase is a British home improvement retailer and garden centre in the United Kingdom. Its main offices are in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, England.

As of December 2016, Homebase has 255 shops in the United Kingdom.  

[[Riviera-Pays-d'Enhaut (district)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in Switzerland, Districts of Vaud

The Riviera-Pays-d'Enhaut District is a district in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The seat of the district is the town of Vevey.

[[Hausen ob Verena]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Hausen ob Verena is a municipality in Tuttlingen in Baden-Württemberg in Germany.

[[Leskovac]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Serbia

Leskovac (Serbian Cyrillic: Лесковац, lě̞skɔ̝v̞at͡s) is a city in southern Serbia.

It is the administrative center of the Jablanica District. According to the 2011 census, the city has population of 60,288. The administrative area has a population of 144,206.

[[Fontanella]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Fontanella is a municipality in the district of Bludenz in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg.

[[Lustenau]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Lustenau (Alemannic German: Luschnou) is a market town in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg. It is found in the district of Dornbirn.

[[Balgheim]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Balgheim is a municipality of the district Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Faoug]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Faoug is a municipality in the district of Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

[[Calfreisen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Calfreisen is a former municipality of the district Plessur in the Swiss canton of Graubünden.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Calfreisen, Castiel, Langwies, Lüen, Molinis, Peist and St. Peter-Pagig merged into the municipality of Arosa.

[[Chavannes-sur-l'Étang]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Chavannes-sur-l'Étang is a commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Toronto, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Toronto is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Tirano]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lombardy

Tirano is a city in northern Italy. It is in the province of Sondrio. It has 9,130 people.

[[Elm, Cambridgeshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cambridgeshire, Civil parishes in Cambridgeshire

Elm is a village and civil parish in Cambridgeshire in the United Kingdom. The population including Coldham, Collett's Bridge, Friday Bridge and Ring's End was 3,962 at the 2011 Census.

[[Håkan Carlqvist]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Sportspeople from Stockholm

Håkan Carlqvist (15 January 1954 – 7 July 2017) was a Swedish professional motocross racer. He was born near Stockholm, Sweden. 

Carlqvist won the F.I.M. 250cc Motocross World Championship in 1979 as a member of the Husqvarna factory racing team. In 1980, he switched to Yamaha to contest the 500cc motocross world championship. He finished 3rd in 1981 and 1982. In 1983, he battled against Honda teammates André Malherbe and Graham Noyce to claim the 500cc world championship, on a Yamaha. In 1984, an injury stopped Carlqvist from contesting the title again. He raced for Yamaha until end of 1986.

Carlqvist died in Stockholm on 7 July 2017 of a heart attack at the age of 63.

[[Pam McConnell]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in Canada, Politicians from Toronto

Pam McConnell (1946 – 7 July 2017) was a Canadian politician. She was elected to Toronto City Council in 1994 and most recently served as councillor for Ward 28 from 2000 until her death in 2017. She was born in England.

McConnell died on 7 July 2017 of respiratory failure at a hospital in Toronto at the age of 71.

[[Carol Lee Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in London, English television actors, English singers, English television presenters, Actors from Somerset

Carol Lee Scott (20 December 1942 – 4 July 2017) was an English entertainer. She was best known for her role on British television in the 1980s and 1990s as "Grotbags". Throughout her career, Scott regularly performed on the international cabaret circuit, and prior to her TV work, she was a singer and released two albums.

Scott died of cancer in London on 4 July 2017 at the age of 74.

[[Heinz Schneiter]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, 1962 FIFA World Cup players, 1966 FIFA World Cup players, Deaths from coronary artery disease, Swiss football managers, Swiss footballers, Thun

Heinz Schneiter (12 April 1935 – 6 July 2017) was a Swiss football player and manager. He was born in Thun.

Schneiter got 44 caps and 3 goals for Switzerland, playing all three games at the 1962 World Cup. He also played in Switzerland's 0–5 loss to West Germany at the 1966 World Cup. He scored against West Germany in the 1962 World Cup.

Schneiter coached FC Thun and BSC Young Boys.

Schneiter died on 6 July 2017 of coronary artery disease, at the age of 82.

[[Egil Monn-Iversen]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Norwegian composers, Pianists, Norwegian businesspeople, People from Oslo

Egil Monn-Iversen (14 April 1928 – 7 July 2017) was a Norwegian composer, pianist and businessman. He was born in Oslo. He was one of the most influential modern composers in Norway. He has had many important roles in Norwegian music, movie, opera, television, comedy and theater.

For some time he had so much influence in Norwegian culture that he got the nickname The Godfather, even though he has always considered himself a down-to-earth musician.

[[Crockett County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Crockett County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 3,719 people lived there. The county seat is Ozona.

[[Crosby County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Crosby County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 6,059 people lived there. The county seat is Crosbyton.

[[David Yewdall]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in North Carolina, American educators, Writers from Missouri, People from Springfield, Missouri

David Lewis Yewdall (October 30, 1950 – July 4, 2017) was an American production sound mixer. He was born in Springfield, Missouri. He worked with Roger Corman on Battle Beyond the Stars and as the co-supervising sound editor on Talvisota. He published a book about the profession in 2007, Practical art of motion picture sound, which was called a "must-read for all students of film."

In 1996, he became a member of the board of NightPro Technologies Inc (NTI), a sound production company from Provo, Utah. He taught editing and sound at the University of North Carolina School of the Arts until June 2016.

His best known works are The Thing, The Fifth Element and Escape From New York.

Yewdall died on July 4, 2017 in Winston-Salem, North Carolina from pancreatic cancer, aged 66.

[[Dawson County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Dawson County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 13,833 people lived there. The county seat is Lamesa.

[[Culberson County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Culberson County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 2,398 people lived there. The county seat is Van Horn.

[[Delta County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Delta County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 5,231 people lived there. The county seat is Cooper.

[[Dickens County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Dickens County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 2,444 people lived there. The county seat is Dickens.

[[Duval County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Duval County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 13,120 people lived there. The county seat is San Diego.

[[Ector County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Ector County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 121,123 people lived there. The county seat is Odessa.

[[Bikini Bottom]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional locations, SpongeBob SquarePants

Bikini Bottom is a town from SpongeBob SquarePants.

[[Lea DeLaria]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American jazz musicians, LGBT actors, LGBT comedians, LGBT musicians, Lesbians, Actors from Illinois, Musicians from Illinois, Comedians from Illinois, LGBT people from Illinois

Lea DeLaria (born May 23, 1958) is an American comedian, actress, and jazz musician. DeLaria was "the first openly gay comic to break the late-night talk-show barrier" with her 1993 appearance on The Arsenio Hall Show.  She is best known for her portrayal of inmate Big Boo on Netflix original series Orange Is the New Black.

From 2015 through 2017, she was engaged to fashion editor Chelsea Fairless until they separated. 

[[McDonnell Douglas]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft companies, 1967 establishments in the United States, 1997 disestablishments in the United States

McDonnell Douglas was a major American aircraft manufacturing company. It was formed by the merger of McDonnell Aircraft and the Douglas Aircraft Company in 1967. In 1997 it merged with Boeing. The company designed and built a number of well-known commercial and military aircraft such as the DC-10 airliner and F-15 Eagle air-superiority fighter.

McDonnell Douglas was based at Lambert–St. Louis International Airport near St. Louis, Missouri. The McDonnell Douglas Technical Services Company (MDTSC), headquarters were in unincorporated St. Louis County, Missouri.

[[List of Airlines of Finland]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Europe, Companies of Finland, Aviation lists

Finland has had a number of airlines over the years

[[Arrondissement of Lure]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Lure is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Haute-Saône département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital, and subprefecture of the department, is the city of Lure.

[[Air Åland]]

CATEGORIES: Åland Islands, Airlines of Europe, 2005 establishments in Europe

Air Åland Ab is an airline from Åland. Air Åland doesn't fly the routes by itself, it uses other airlines. Swedish airline NextJet has been operating the flights 

The company was based as an airlines in 14th of January 2005 and started flying 29th of October 2005 with Mariehamn-Helsinki-route. The company opened its 2nd route in 13th of March 2006. between Mariehamn and Stockholm (Arlanda). Air Åland ceased flying in 2012 because FlyBe started flying the Helsinki-Mariehamn-route.  

Also the company operates charter flights. Air Åland's flights' host used to be UAB Nordic Solutions Air Services with four Saab 340-prop airliners (Registration: LY-DIG, LY-ISR, LY-KXE and LY-RIK). The operator changed its name to Avion Express because the owner changed. After that the flights were handled by a Swedish Avitrans Nordic. During the winter 2008 Air Åland expanded its career with the Wingo xprs company. Wingo xprs started a route Turku-Tampere-Oulu, which was operated by Air Åland until 19th of June 2008. 

Nextjet starts flights from Mariehamn to Turku on the 2nd of April 2012, and it will be flown once everyday, except Sundays.

[[2003 Russian Premier League]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in association football, Russian Premier League, 2000s in Russia

The 2003 Russian Premier League (Russian: Чемпионат России по футболу 2003, Chempionat Rossii po futbolu 2003) was the 2nd Russian Premier League season, and the 12th top division football tournament. CSKA Moscow won their 1st title, and Dmitri Loskov was the top scorer with 14 goals.

[[Arrondissement of Vesoul]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Vesoul is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Haute-Saône département in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Vesoul.

[[Maisie Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Living people, Actors from Bristol, Actors from Somerset, British child actors, British movie actors, British television actors

Margaret Constance "Maisie" Williams (born 15 April 1997) is an English actress. She is notable for acting, and has won some awards.

She made her professional acting debut as Arya Stark of Winterfell in the HBO fantasy television series Game of Thrones in 2011, for which she won the EWwy Award for best supporting actress in a drama, the Portal Award for best supporting actress, and the Saturn Award for best performance by a younger actor. In 2016, she was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for outstanding supporting actress in a drama series.

[[Cuxton railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Medway, 1856 establishments in Europe, 1850s establishments in England

Cuxton railway station is a railway station in Cuxton in Kent. The station is on the Medway Valley Line.

[[Spencer Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in California, Writers from South Dakota

Patrick Spencer Johnson (November 24, 1938 – July 3, 2017) was an American author. He was known for the ValueTales series of children's books and for his 1998 motivational book Who Moved My Cheese?, which recurred on the New York Times Bestseller list, on the Publishers Weekly Hardcover nonfiction list. 

Johnson was chairman of Spencer Johnson Partners until his death in 2017.

Johnson died in San Diego, California on July 3, 2017 of complications from pancreatic cancer, aged 78.

[[Adriana Sivieri]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, Living people, Argentine movie actors, Argentine television actors, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian voice actors, Radio actors, Actors from Buenos Aires

Adriana Sivieri (born 21 June 1918) is a retired Argentine-born Italian movie actress.

[[Lure]]

Lure may refer to:

[[Josephine Webb]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, Living people, Engineers from New York, American inventors, Scientists from New York

Josephine Webb (born June 21, 1918) is an American electrical engineer. She was known as "switchgear". She designed an eighteen-inch, full newspaper size fax machine with superior resolution. 

Webb co-founded Webb Consulting Company with her husband, also an electrical engineer. She is one of the first female electrical engineers, and considered a pioneer by the Society of Women Engineers. At Purdue University, she was one out of a total of five women engineers.

[[Niagara Falls, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New York

Niagara Falls (n ny) is a city in Niagara County, New York, United States.

As of the 2010 census, the city had a total population of 50,193, down from the 55,593 recorded in the 2000 census.

It is across the Niagara River, across from the city of Niagara Falls, Ontario, and named after the famed Niagara Falls which they share. The city is within the Buffalo–Niagara Falls Metropolitan Statistical Area as well as the Western New York region.

[[Halling, Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Medway, Villages in Kent

Halling is a village on the North Downs in the northern part of Kent, England, It consists of Lower Halling, Upper Halling and North Halling, It also has a railway station, Halling railway station.

[[Halling railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Medway

Halling railway station is a railway station in Halling in Kent. The station is on the Medway Valley Line.

[[Thailand TESOL]]

CATEGORIES: Language education, Educational organizations

Thailand TESOL is an academic and professional association that helps teachers of English as a Foreign Language (EFL). It is often called ThaiTESOL for short.

[[Korea Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages]]

CATEGORIES: Language education, Educational organizations

Korea Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages is an academic and professional association that helps teachers of English as a Foreign Language (EFL). It is often called KOTESOL for short.

[[Philippine Association for Language Teaching]]

CATEGORIES: Language education, Educational organizations, 1960 establishments in Asia, 1960s establishments in the Philippines

The Philippine Association for Language Teaching is an academic and professional association that helps teachers of English as a Foreign Language (EFL). It is often called PALT for short. Its offices are at the College of Education of the University of the Philippines in Quezon City. 

[[Best of My Love (Eagles song)]]

CATEGORIES: Rock songs, 1974 songs

"Best of My Love" is a soft rock song from the Eagles. The song was part of the studio album On the Border. It was released in November 1974. It was the third single from the album. It was the Eagles' first #1 song on the United States Billboard Hot 100. It became so in March 1975.

The song also topped the easy listening chart for one week in February 1975. The Billboard Year End Charts ranked "Best of My Love" at #12 for 1975. It sold over a million copies.

The single edit was shortened by Asylum Records. The record company shortened the single, so that it would be more radio-friendly, without the Eagles' knowledge. This made them angry. Don Henley wanted the single pulled from stores. The full song is four minutes and thirty four seconds.

When the song was judged to have sold over a million copies, Eagles' manager, Irving Azoff, sent a gold record with a piece cut-out to Asylum Records.

The song was later remade by the country music group Brooks & Dunn in 1993.

[[The Association for the Teaching English as a Foreign Language in Indonesia]]

CATEGORIES: Language education

The Association for the Teaching English as a Foreign Language in Indonesia is an academic and professional association that helps teachers of English as a Foreign Language (EFL). It is often called TEFLIN for short.

[[Cambodian Civil War]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s in Cambodia, Civil wars

The Cambodian Civil War was a five-year-old war that lasted from 1970 to 1975 and took place in Cambodia. The Khmer Republic was friendly with South Vietnam and the United States and they were fighting against the Khmer Rouge who were friendly with North Vietnam and the Vietcong. After the war ended in 1975 the Khmer Rouge won the war.

[[Universitas Kristen Satya Wacana]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Indonesia, 1956 establishments in Asia, Colleges and universities in Asia, Java

Universitas Kristen Satya Wacana is a university in Salatiga, Java, Indonesia. It is a private, Christian university.

[[Universitas Diponegoro]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Asia, Java

Universitas Diponegoro is a public university in Semarang, Java, Indonesia.

[[Tom Blom]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Cancer deaths in the Netherlands, Dutch radio personalities, Dutch television presenters, People from The Hague

Tom Blom (25 September 1946 – 3 July 2017) was a Dutch television and radio presenter. He was born in The Hague. His career began in 1975. Blom made his television debut as a announcer at The Johnny Kraaijkamp Show. Later, he was a presenter of the record program De Eerste de Beste. From 1983, Blom was a commentator and co-presenter at Te land, ter zee en in de lucht.

Blom died on 3 July 2017 in The Hague of brain cancer at the age of 70.

[[Whang-od]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, Living people, Centenarians, Filipino people, Artists

Whang-od Oggay (born 17 February 1917) is a Filipina tattoo artist from Buscalan, Tinglayan, Kalinga, Philippines.  

She is thought as the last mambabatok (traditional Kalinga tattooist) from the Butbut people in Buscalan Kalinga and the oldest tattoo artist in the Philippines.  She has been tattooing headhunters and women of the indigenous people of Butbut in Buscalan Kalinga for more than 80 years, but the Butbut warriors who used to earn tattoos through protecting villages or killing enemies no longer exist.  

Instead, Whang-od now applies the traditional art form to tourists visiting Buscalan.

[[Columbus, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Columbus is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Colorado County.

[[San Diego, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

San Diego is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Duval County.

[[Eduardo Saverin]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American businesspeople, Brazilian businesspeople, People from São Paulo, People who lost citizenship

Eduardo Luiz Saverin (ˈ; eduˈaɾdu luˈis ˈsaveɾĩ; born March 19, 1982) is a Brazilian Internet entrepreneur and "angel" investor. Saverin is one of the co-founders of Facebook. 2015, he owns 53 million Facebook shares (approximately 0.4% of all outstanding shares) and has a net worth of $10.3 billion, according to Forbes. He has also invested in early-stage startups such as Qwiki and Jumio.

In what was seen by some as a move to avoid U.S. taxes, Saverin renounced (gave up) his U.S. citizenship in September 2011. According to Saverin, he renounced his citizenship because of his "interest in working and living in Singapore" where he has been since 2009. He avoided an estimated $700 million in capital gains taxes; this generated some media attention and controversy. Saverin denies that he left the U.S. to avoid paying taxes.

[[St Anton am Arlberg]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Tyrol (state), Ski areas and resorts in Austria

Sankt Anton am Arlberg is a ski resort in the state of Tyrol, Austria. It was the host of the Alpine World Ski Championships in 2001.

[[Caselle Landi]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Lombardy

Caselle Landi is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Lodi in the Italian region Lombardy. It is about 35 southeast of Lodi. As of 2004 about 1,751 people lived there. It has an area of 25.9.

Caselle Landi borders the following municipalities: Cornovecchio, Meleti, Corno Giovine, Santo Stefano Lodigiano, Castelnuovo Bocca d'Adda, Piacenza and Caorso.

[[Jalandhar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Punjab, India, Cities in India

Jalandhar is a city in the state of Punjab in India.

[[Cama, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Cama is a municipality in the district of Moesa in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Castaneda, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Castaneda is a municipality of the district of Moesa in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Calverstown]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ireland, County Kildare

Calverstown (Baile an Chalbhaigh) is a village in County Kildare, Ireland.

[[Sacramento, Minas Gerais]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Minas Gerais

Sacramento is a municipality in the west of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.

Neighboring municipalities are: Perdizes (N), Araxá and Tapira (NE), São Roque de Minas and Delfinópolis (SE), Ibiraci (S), Pedregulho and Rifaina (SW), Conquista and Uberaba, and Nova Ponte and Santa Juliana (NW).

[[Cargèse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Corse-du-Sud

Cargèse (Καργκέζε, Carghjese) is a village and commune. It is in the Corse-du-Sud department in south France.

[[Courtavon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Courtavon is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Mandate of Heaven]]

CATEGORIES: History of China

The Mandate of Heaven (天命) was a Chinese political and religious doctrine used to justify the rule of the emperor of China. According to this belief, heaven  (天, Tian) stands  for the natural order and will of the universe. Heaven will give a mandate to a just ruler, the Son of Heaven. If a ruler was overthrown, this was interpreted as an indication that the ruler was unworthy, and had lost the mandate. It was also a common belief that natural disasters such as famine and flood were signs of heaven's displeasure with the ruler, so there would often be revolts after major disasters as citizens saw these as signs that the Mandate of Heaven had been withdrawn.

The Mandate of Heaven does not require a legitimate ruler to be of noble birth, and dynasties such as the Han and Ming dynasties were founded by men of common origins. The Mandate of Heaven had no time limitations, depending instead on the just and able performance of the rulers and their heirs. The concept is in some ways similar to the European concept of the divine right of kings; however, unlike the European concept, it does not confer an unconditional right to rule. The concept of Mandate of Heaven also included the right of rebellion against an unjust ruler. Chinese historians interpreted a successful revolt as evidence that Heaven had withdrawn its mandate from the ruler. Throughout Chinese history, times of poverty and natural disasters were often taken as signs that heaven considered the current ruler unjust and in need of replacement. The Mandate of Heaven was often invoked by philosophers and scholars in China as a way to curtail the abuse of power by the ruler. 

The concept of the Mandate of Heaven was first used to support the rule of the kings of the Zhou dynasty (1046–256 BCE), and legitimize their overthrow of the earlier Shang dynasty (1600–1046 BCE). It was used throughout the history of China to support the rule of emperors, including non-Han ethnic monarchs such as the Qing dynasty. This concept was also used by monarchs in neighboring countries like Korea and Vietnam. A similar situation prevailed since the establishment of Ahom rule in the Kingdom of Assam of Southeast Asia.

[[Nelsan Ellis]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Illinois, African-American movie actors‎, African-American television actors‎, American playwrights, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Deaths from heart failure, Writers from Illinois

Nelsan Ellis (November 30, 1977 – July 8, 2017) was an American actor and playwright. He was best known for his role as Lafayette Reynolds in the HBO series True Blood from 2008 to 2014. He also appeared in the movies The Butler (2013) and Get on Up (2014).

Ellis was born in Harvey, Illinois. He joined the United States Marines at the age of 17.

Ellis died of heart failure caused by alcohol withdrawal on July 8, 2017 in Brooklyn, New York. He was 39.

[[Content word]]

CATEGORIES: Words

A content word is a word in a language that has meaning. The most common content words are nouns, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs. Unlike function words, content words are usually open class, which means that there is no end to how many words a part of speech in a language can have. Since content words are usually more important in a sentence, they tend to be said with more stress in an English sentence.

[[Open class]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

An open class of words is a part of speech that can easily add new words. A closed class of words, on the other hand, cannot add new words easily. For example, since pronouns are a closed class, there are fairly few pronouns: I, me, my, mine, myself, you, you, your, yours, yourself, he, him, his, his, himself, she, her, her, hers, herself, it, it, its, its, itself, we, us, our, ours, ourselves, they, them, their, theirs, themselves. Since pronouns are used to replace whole noun phrases, there is no need to have many kinds of pronouns. Instead of saying "The Earl of Sandwich introduced the Earl of Sandwich's favorite food, the sandwich", one uses the pronoun "his" to replace "the Earl of Sandwich's" to make the sentence not repeat itself when it doesn't have to, thus the sentence becomes "The Earl of Sandwich introduced his favorite food, the sandwich". New nouns, on the other hand, can easily be made, and are constantly being added into the English language.

[[PSL sniper rifle]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles, Romania

The PSL is a Romanian sniper rifle that is based on the Soviet RPK and the PSL looks similar to the Soviet SVD. The PSL was used by the Romanian army since 1974. The length of the PSL is 45.3 inches and the PSL uses a 7.62×54mmR or a 7.62×51mm NATO.

[[PSL]]

PSL can mean several things:

[[Quit India Movement]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in India

The Quit India Movement was a movement started by Mahatma Gandhi on 8 August 1942 during the World War II. Asking for an end to British rule in India. The movement was started in a speech in Bombay (now Mumbai) where Mahatma Gandhi asked Indians to Do or Die. The Congress launched a protest asking the British to withdraw from India. However, the British imprisoned most of the Congress leadership within a day of the speech to suppress the movement. All of the British refused to grant independence until the war ended. We have relived to be confident and versions for the quit Indian movement. People destroyed symbols of British authority such as rail tracks, post office, and police station. Leaders of the Quit India movement are Sucheta Kriplani, Ram Manohar Lohia, Aruna Asaf Ali, and Jaiprakash Narayan.

[[Mistinguett]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1956 deaths, French stage actors, French movie actors, French singers

Mistinguett (3 April 1875 – 5 January 1956) was a French actress and singer. Her real name was Jeanne Florentine Bourgeois. For many years she was the star of the Folies Bergère and other nightclubs in Paris. She was also in many silent movies.

[[SIR model]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

The SIR model is a simple mathematical model of epidemics. An epidemic is when the number of people infected with a disease is increasing in a population. 

S, I, and R stand for:

Below is a graph of a solved SIR model. The bottom (x) axis is time, and the left (y) axis is the population or the number of people. 

Blue represents the number of susceptible people. At the beginning of the epidemic, the number of susceptible (blue) people decreases as the number of infected (green) people increases. Gradually the number of recovered (red) people increases. In this particular model, after the epidemic is over, all people have been infected and recovered. This is not always the case; sometimes, some susceptible people remain uninfected.

This model is also missing some parts, such as creating new susceptible people by being born and the removal of susceptible, infected, and recovered people who die. More complicated models can include these parts. 

Also, this model does not work well for every disease. It works well where people recover from a disease and become immune, such as measles. Not all infectious diseases follow this pattern. For instance, people infected with HIV never recover, and there is no vaccine, so there is no group of recovered people, only susceptible and infected people. There is also the case where people recover from a disease but do not become immune or lose their immunity over time. For instance, when people get the flu, they are generally only immune for a short time before they become susceptible again.

There are also different kinds of models when as the disease is spread through the water, such as in the case of cholera, or by a vector like a mosquito, such as malaria.

[[Engadin]]

CATEGORIES: Valleys of Switzerland, Graubünden

The Engadin or Engadine (Roh-putèr-Engiadina.ogg, Engadin, Engadina, Engadine; lit.: Valley of the Inn people) is a long high Alpine valley in the eastern Swiss Alps. It is found in the canton of Graubünden. It is about 25,000 inhabitants. It follows the route of the Inn (En) from its headwaters at Maloja Pass in the southwest running roughly northeast until the Inn flows into Austria, one hundred kilometers downstream. The Inn subsequently flows at Passau into the Danube, as the only Swiss river to drain into the Black Sea.

The Engadine is connected by the Julier, Albula, Flüela Passes and the Vereina Tunnel to the northern part of Switzerland and the rest of the canton of Graubünden.

The highest mountains of the wider area of the Engadine is the Bernina Range in the southwestern part.

[[Asbach-Bäumenheim]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Asbach-Bäumenheim is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is Martin Paninka of the SPD political party. During WW2 prisoners were kept in a concentration camp there, and were forced to work. A memorial remembers the prisoners who died. The village was named Asbach-Bäumenheim in 1958.

[[Auhausen]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Auhausen is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. Auhausen was the site of the 1608 meeting that formed the Protestant Union. This is also known as the Union of Auhausen. The mayor is currently Wilhalm Dorner.

[[Tuttlingen (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Tuttlingen is a rural district (Landkreis) in the south of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Rottweil, Zollernalbkreis, Sigmaringen, Constance and Schwarzwald-Baar. The capital is Tuttlingen.

[[Fridingen]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Fridingen is a town of the district Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. The town is about 10 km east of Tuttlingen, and 23 km west of Sigmaringen. It is on the Danube river.

[[Bärenthal]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Bärenthal is a small municipality of the district of Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Castasegna]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Castasegna was a municipality of the district Maloja in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. It is part of the municipality of Bregaglia.

[[Castiel, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Castiel is a former municipality in the district of Plessur in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Castiel, Calfreisen, Langwies, Lüen, Molinis, Peist and St. Peter-Pagig merged into the municipality of Arosa.

[[Aurora, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Aurora is a city in Portage County, Ohio, United States. There were 15,548 people living there at the 2010 census. It is part of the Akron Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Norwood, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Norwood is a city of Wright County, Missouri, United States. The population was 665 at the 2010 census.

[[Avon, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Avon is a city in Lorain County, Ohio, United States. The population was 21,193 at the 2010 census.

[[Avon Lake, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Avon Lake is a city in Lorain County, Ohio, United States. It is near Lake Erie. 22,581 people lived there at the 2010 census.  It is part of Greater Cleveland.

[[Barberton, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Barberton is a city in Summit County, Ohio, United States. 26,550 people lived there at the 2010 census. It is near Akron and is part of the Akron metropolitan area.

[[Martins Ferry, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Martins Ferry is a city in Belmont County, Ohio, United States, on the Ohio River. It is the largest city in Belmont County. 6,915 people lived there as of the 2010 census.

Martins Ferry is part of the Wheeling metropolitan area.

[[Coppet]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud, Cities in Switzerland

Coppet is a municipality of the district of Nyon in the Swiss canton of Vaud.

[[Forel-sur-Lucens]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Vaud

Forel-sur-Lucens is a former municipality of the district Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. On 1 January 2017, it is part of the municipality of Lucens.

[[Dannemarie, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Dannemarie is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Piotr Ligienza]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Polish movie actors, Polish television actors, Polish stage actors

Piotr Ligienza (born 31 May 1982) is a Polish actor. He was known for his roles in the series  Ranczo and Synowie. He has appeared in the play "Romulus Wielki'' (directed by Krzysztof Zanussi).

Ligienza was born in Dzierżoniów, Poland.

[[Disruptive innovation]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Disruptive innovation, sometimes called disruptive technology is the name for a technology or innovation that changes the market: It creates a new market. These new markets are small at first, which makes them uninteresting for established market players. If disruptive innovation is used, the market will grow at a high speed. Eventually, they will replace existing technology, though. An example of this is Flash memory.  When it was introduced it was expensive, and capacities were small, compared to hard disks. On the other hand, flash memory is small, and uses little energy. It began to be used in mp3 players and usb flash drives. Eventually, it was used for Solid state disks, which started to replace hard drives.

Clayton M. Christensen first used the term in 1995: Christensen defines a disruptive innovation as a product or service designed for a new set of customers.

[[Dessenheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Dessenheim is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Ataullah Behmanesh]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Iranian writers, Wrestlers, Iranian journalists

Ataullah Behmanesh (Persian: عطاءالله بهمنش) (April 13, 1923 – July 2, 2017) was an Iranian wrestler and sports journalist. Behmanesh was one of the oldest and most prominent Iranian sports reporters, He conducted the first live sports report in Iran from Radio in 1958 to compete in Iranian and Iraqi national Sport of athletics competitions. 

Behmanesh died of a stroke in Tehran on July 2, 2017 at the age of 94.

[[Joe Robinson (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Actors who played in James Bond movies, Deaths from dementia, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Newcastle upon Tyne

Joseph Robinson (31 May 1927 – 3 July 2017) was an English actor and stuntman. He was known for his roles in A Kid for Two Farthings, The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner, and in Thor and the Amazon Women.

Robinson died at the age of 90 on July 3, 2017, in Brighton, East Sussex of dementia-related complications.

[[Irina Ratushinskaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from kidney cancer, Russian poets, Russian writers

Irina Borisovna Ratushinskaya (Ири́на Бори́совна Ратуши́нская, 4 March 1954, Odessa – 5 July 2017, Moscow) was a Russian dissident, poet and writer.

On September 17, 1982, Ratushinskaya was arrested for anti-Soviet agitation. In April 1983, she was convicted of "agitation carried on for the purpose of subverting or weakening the Soviet regime", sentenced to seven years in a labor camp followed by five years of internal exile. She was released on October 9, 1986, on the eve of the summit in Reykjavík, Iceland between President Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev.

Ratushinskaya died on 5 July 2017 in Moscow of cancer at the age of 63.

[[Diego E. Hernández]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Florida, American military people, People from San Juan, Puerto Rico

[[Diane Von Hoffman]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Louisville, Kentucky

Phyllis Burch (April 13, 1962 – July 6, 2017) was an American professional wrestler active from 1979 to 2013. Burch wrestled under the names Diane Von Hoffman, The Teutonic Terror, and Lady Beast. She wrestled in Memphis's United States Wrestling Association in the 1990s as Moondog Fifi, a member of The Moondogs stable. She also wrestled for the Ladies Professional Wrestling Association, Continental Wrestling Association, and Ladies Major League Wrestling.

Hoffman died on July 6, 2017, at the age of 55 after knee surgery.

[[Elsa Martinelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian models, People from Tuscany

Elsa Martinelli (Elisa Tia; 30 January 1935 – 8 July 2017) was an Italian actress and fashion model.

In 1956 she won the Silver Bear for Best Actress at the 6th Berlin International Film Festival for playing the title role in Mario Monicelli's Donatella.

Martinelli appeared in Four Girls in Town (1957), Manuela (1957), Prisoner of the Volga (1959), Hatari! (1962),  The Pigeon That Took Rome (1962), The Trial (1962), The V.I.P.s (1963), Rampage (1963), Woman Times Seven (1967), and Candy (1968).

Martinelli died in Rome on 8 July 2017 of lung cancer at the age of 82.

[[Ilya Glazunov]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Russian artists

Ilya Glazunov (Илья Глазунов; 10 June 1930 – 9 July 2017) was a Russian artist from Saint Petersburg. He held the title of People's Artist of Russia. He served as a rector at the Russian Academy of Painting, Sculpture and Architecture in Moscow (Russian: Российская академия живописи, ваяния и зодчества).

Glazunov's paintings have mostly historic or religious themes. Famous works include Russia the Eternal, The 20th Century Mystery, The Ruining of the Temple on Easter Night, and illustrations to the works of Fyodor Dostoyevsky.

Glazunov died on 9 July 2017 in Moscow at the age of 87.

[[Anton Nossik]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2017 deaths, Bloggers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Jewish activists, Jewish writers, Russian journalists, Writers from Moscow

[[Paquita Rico]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Spain, Spanish movie actors, Spanish singers, People from Seville

Francisca Rico Martínez (13 October 1929 – 9 July 2017), better known as Paquita Rico, was a Spanish actress and singer. She was born in Triana, Seville. She appeared in 30 movies between 1948 and 1983. She starred in the movie Let's Make the Impossible!, which was entered into the 8th Berlin International Film Festival.

Rico died at a hospital in Seville, Spain from pneumonia on 9 July 2017 at the age of 87.

[[Naresh Chandra]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Disease-related deaths in India, Politicians from Uttar Pradesh, Governors of Gujarat, Ambassadors of India to the United States

Naresh Chandra (1 August 1934 – 9 July 2017) was an Indian politician. He was born in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India. He served as the 20th Cabinet Secretary of India from 1990 through 1992, the 13th Governor of Gujarat from 1995 through 1996 and as the 19th Indian Ambassador to the United States from 1996 through 2001.

Chandra was awarded India's second highest civil awards, the Padma Vibhushan, for his service in 2007.

Chandra died at a hospital in Panaji, Goa, India of multiple organ failure on 9 July 2017 at the age of 82.

[[Karan Singh]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Indian politicians, Indian poets, Indian philanthropists, People from Cannes

Karan Singh (born 9 March 1931) is an Indian politician, philanthropist and poet. He was born in Cannes, France.

Singh is a member of India's Upper House of Parliament, the Rajya Sabha representing the National Capital Territory of Delhi. He is a senior member of the Indian National Congress Party who served successively as President (Sadr-i-Riyasat) and Governor of Jammu and Kashmir.

Singh is the son of the last ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Jammu and Kashmir, Maharaja Hari Singh. In the 26th amendment to the Constitution of India promulgated in 1971, the Government of India, of which Karan Singh was a Union cabinet minister, abolished all official symbols of princely India, including titles, privileges, and remuneration (privy purses). During the conclusion of the Cold War, he was India's ambassador to the USA. Singh received the Padma Vibhushan in 2005.

Singh was seen as a possible candidate for President in the July 2017 Indian presidential election by Bhim Singh.

[[Andrzej Olechowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Polish politicians, People from Kraków

Andrzej Marian Olechowski AUD (born 9 September 1947 in Kraków, Poland) is a Polish politician. He was one of the co-founders of liberal conservative party Civic Platform in 2001 with Maciej Płażyński and Donald Tusk. He served as Minister of Finance (1992) in the Jan Olszewski's Government and Minister of Foreign Affairs (1993–1995) in the Waldemar Pawlak's Government.

Olechowski was an independent candidate in 2000 presidential election, coming second after incumbent Aleksander Kwaśniewski. In 2002, he was Civic Platform's candidate for president of Warsaw but failed to even get to the second round. Afterwards he began moving away from politics.

He left the Civic Platform in July 2009 and started co-operating with the Democratic Party. He was one of the candidates in the 2010 Polish presidential election, but got only 1.44% of votes and didn't get into the second round.

[[V. V. Sadagopan]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, Living people, Indian movie actors, Indian academics, Centenarians, Composers

V. V. Sadagopan (born Veeravanallur Vedantam Sadagopan; 29 January 1915) is an Indian movie actor, music teacher, performer and composer. He was a prolific writer in English and Tamil. Apart from articles on music, he has written poetry, lyrics and even a number of stories in Tamil, that were published in Ananda Vikatan.

He acted as the main actor in the Tamil movie Nava Yuvan (Modern Youth) that had an alternate title Geethasaram (Essence of Gita). Gemini Studios started their movie production in the year 1941 and produced the Tamil movie Madanakamarajan which became one of Sadahopan's greatest roles.

Sadagopan was a member of the audition panel of All India Radio (AIR) and also of the experts committee of the Madras Music Academy. 

[[Buchdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Buchdorf is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Georg Vellinger of the CSU party.

[[Indian Ambassador to the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Ambassadors of India to the United States, Indian politicians

The Indian Ambassador to the United States is the main representative of India to the United States. They live in the embassy of India in Washington, D.C.

[[Daiting]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Daiting is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Johann Roßkopf.

In the 1980s part of a Archaeopteryx fossil was found in Daiting. It is known as the Daiting Specimen. Scientists believe that it is a new type of Archaeopteryx.

[[Jane]]

Jane is a feminine given name:

[[Deiningen]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Deiningen is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Karl-Heinz Stippler.

[[Donauwörth]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Donauwörth is a city in Bavaria in Germany. It is the capital of the district of Donau-Ries. The mayor is currently Armin Neudert from the Christian Social Union of Bavaria. The city is said to have been founded by two fishermen where two rivers meet. The city is on the scenic route called the "Romantische Straße" (Romantic Road). It is twinned with the town of Perchtoldsdorf, Austria. 

[[Ederheim]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Ederheim is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Caroline Zehnpfennig.

[[Ehingen am Ries]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Ehingen am Ries is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Paul Fackler.

[[Forheim]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Forheim is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Werner Thum.

[[Böttingen]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Böttingen is a municipality of the district of Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Bubsheim]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Bubsheim is a municipality of the district of Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. 

[[Casti-Wergenstein]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Casti-Wergenstein (Casti-Vargistagn) is a municipality in the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden.

[[Castrisch]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Castrisch is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Castrisch, Duvin, Ilanz, Ladir, Luven, Pigniu, Pitasch, Riein, Rueun, Ruschein, Schnaus, Sevgein and Siat merged into the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[Cauco]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Cauco is a former municipality of the district of Moesa in the Swiss canton of Graubünden.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Cauco, Arvigo, Braggio and Selma merged into the new municipality of Calanca.

[[Fremdingen]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Fremdingen is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Klaus Lingel.

[[Fünfstetten]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Fünfstetten is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Christa Lechner of the CSU party.

[[Genderkingen]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Genderkingen is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Roland Dietz.

[[Barrancabermeja]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colombia, 1922 establishments, 1920s establishments in Colombia

Barrancabermeja is a city in the Santander Department of Colombia. The city was founded in 1922. It is on the shore of the Magdalena River.

It is 114 km west of Bucaramanga.

[[Hainsfarth]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Hainsfarth is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Ursula Seefried.

Hainsfarth is home to a large Jewish population, which made up 40% of the people living there in 1810. Since 1710 it has had a synagogue. This was destroyed by the Nazis in 1938, but it was rebuilt in 1996. The village also has a Jewish cemetery, which was ruined by the Nazis. This was also restored.

[[Harburg, Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Harburg is a city in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Wolfgang Kilian. The city is part of the scenic route called "Romantische Straße" (Romantic Road). It also has one of the most impressive medieval castles in Germany, which was first mentioned in 1150. There is also a rare Jewish cemetery.

[[Hohenaltheim]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Hohenaltheim is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Willi Amerdinger.

[[Hayes, Bromley]]

Hayes is an area of Bromley, it used to be called a village and still has many of the features of one.

[[Bay Village, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Bay Village is a city in Ohio in the United States. As of 2010, 15,651 people lived there. Bay Village is located in Ohio's 9th congressional district.

[[Alcobaça, Portugal]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Portugal, Municipalities of Portugal

Alcobaça is a city in Portugal. It is in the Leiria District. In 2011, 56,693 people lived there.

[[Anadyr (town)]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Russia, Capital cities in Russia

Anadyr (Ана́дырь; Chukchi: Кагыргын, Kagyrgyn) is a port town in Russia. It is the administrative center of Chukotka Autonomous Okrug. In 2010, 13,045 people lived there.

[[Didenheim]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 disestablishments in France

Didenheim is a former commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune Brunstatt-Didenheim.

[[Diefmatten]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Diefmatten is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

It is about 15 km west of Mulhouse.

[[Dietwiller]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Dietwiller is a commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department in east France.

[[Dolleren]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Dolleren is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Snodland]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Kent, Kent boroughs

Snodland is a small town on the River Medway, located between Rochester and Maidstone in the English county of Kent. It is about 27 miles from central London, It also has a railway station, Snodland railway station.

[[Snodland railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, Kent

Snodland railway station is a railway station in Snodland in Kent. The station is in walking distance of the high street. The station is on the Medway Valley Line.

[[England, Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Arkansas

England  is a city in the US state of Arkansas.

[[London, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

London is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is the county seat of Madison County. It has 2 schools inside city limits, London City Schools & St. Patricks School.

[[Gnetum]]

CATEGORIES: Gymnosperms

Gnetum is a group of plants. It is the only group of plants found in Gnetaceae. They are gymnosperms, meaning their seeds are "naked" and not covered unlike flowering plants.

Plants in Gnetum are evergreen. Most of them are woody vines, but some are big enough to be trees. They are found in warmer, tropical regions of the world. Some types, like Gnetum oxycarpum, are in danger of dying out, because they only live in small areas and the forest that they grow on is being turned into land for farming.

Gnetum is part of a very old group of plants, called Gnetophyta. Gnetum may have been one of the first plants to be pollinated by insects, with other members of this group, known as Ephedra and Welwitschia.

[[Richard Gilbert Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Alumni of University College London, Artists from London, Businesspeople from London, English architects

Richard Gilbert Scott (12 December 1923 – 1 July 2017) was a British architect. He was the son of Giles Gilbert Scott and great-grandson of the great Gothic Revival architect George Gilbert Scott. He was known for designing the Forth Road Bridge. He was born in London, England.

Scott was educated at Harrow, Charterhouse School, Bartlett School of Architecture University College London, and Regent Street Polytechnic School of Architecture.

Scott died in Birmingham, England on 1 July 2017 at the age of 93.

[[Pierrette Bloch]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Artists from Paris, French Jews, Swiss painters, Refugees from Nazism, Swiss Jews

Pierrette Bloch (June 16, 1928 – July 7, 2017) was a French-born Swiss painter and textile artist. Bloch began exhibiting her works in Paris and the United States in the 1950s. The ensemble of her works have their roots in the use of  "poor" materials such as ink, paper, mesh, and horsehair. Her work has been exhibited in Europe, Asia, and the Americas.

She was of Jewish descent.

Bloch died on July 7, 2017 in Paris at the age of 89.

[[James B. Nutter Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from Kansas City, Missouri

James Bradford Nutter, Sr. (January 23, 1928 – July 7, 2017) was an American businessman and philanthropist. He was the founder and chairman of James B. Nutter & Company, a privately owned mortgage banking firm headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri. It is one of the oldest and largest family-owned and operated mortgage lending firms in the United States. Nutter was named 2012 Kansas Citian of the Year by the Greater Kansas City Chamber of Commerce.

Nutter Sr. died in Kansas City on July 7, 2017 from stroke-related complications at the age of 89.

[[Kenneth Silverman]]

CATEGORIES: Pulitzer Prize winners, 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in New York City, American educators, Writers from New York City

Kenneth Silverman (February 5, 1936 – July 7, 2017) was a professor emeritus of English at New York University and a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. Silverman was born in Manhattan. He studied at Columbia University.

He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and has received the Edgar Award of the Mystery Writers of America, and the Christopher Literary Award of the Society of American Magicians.

Silverman died of complications from respiratory failure in Manhattan on July 7, 2017 at the age of 81.

[[List of United States permanent representatives to NATO]]

CATEGORIES: Permanent Representatives of the United States to NATO

The United States Permanent Representative to NATO (commonly called the U.S. Ambassador to NATO) is the official representative of the United States to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 

[[Peter Härtling]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Germany, Deaths from heart failure, German journalists, German novelists, German poets, Publishers

Peter Härtling (13 November 1933 – 10 July 2017) was a German writer, poet, publisher and journalist. He received the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany for his major contribution to German literature. His first children's book, Und das ist die ganze Familie, was published the following year. His children's literature has often focused on social problems involving children.

[[L. K. Advani]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Indian politicians, Bharatiya Janata Party politicians, Indian Deputy Prime Ministers

Lal Krishna Advani (born 8 November 1927) known as L. K. Advani is an Indian politician and a senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He co-founded the party in April 1980.

Advani served as Minister of Home Affairs in the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance government from 1998 to 2004. He served as 7th Deputy Prime Minister of India from 2002 to 2004 under Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He was the Leader of the Opposition in the 10th Lok Sabha and 14th Lok Sabha. Advani began his political career as a volunteer of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, a right-wing Hindu nationalist organisation.

In 2015 he was awarded the Padma Vibhushan, India's second highest civilian honor.

[[Hervé Villechaize]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 1993 deaths, Actors who committed suicide, Suicides by firearm in the United States, Suicides in California, People with dwarfism, French movie actors, French television actors, French voice actors, French models, French painters, Actors from Paris, Actors who played Bond villains

Hervé Jean-Pierre Villechaize (ɛʁve vilʃɛz; 23 April 1943 – 4 September 1993) was a French actor, teenage model and painter. He was born in Paris.

Villechaize was known for his many movie and television roles including that of the evil henchman Nick Nack in the James Bond movie, The Man with the Golden Gun (1974), as well as Mr. Roarke's assistant, Tattoo, on the television series Fantasy Island (1978–1984). He starred in the movie Forbidden Zone (1980), and appeared in Airplane II: The Sequel (1982), and episodes of Diff'rent Strokes and Taxi.

Villechaize was of Filipino descent. He suffered from proportionate dwarfism. In later years, he insisted on being called a "midget" rather than a "dwarf". His height was 3 feet and 10 inches. In 1964 he left France for the United States.

Villechaize was married to Anne Sadowski from 1970 until they divorced in 1979. From 1980 through 1982, he was married to Camille Hagen. Until his death in 1993, he was partners with Kathy Self.

During his later years Villechaize struggled with depression and suicidal thoughts.

In the early morning hours of 4 September 1993, Villechaize is believed to have first fired a shot through the sliding glass patio door in order to awaken his longtime girlfriend, Kathy Self, before shooting himself at his North Hollywood home. He was 50 years old. Villechaize left a suicide note saying he was suffering over longtime health problems. Villechaize was suffering from chronic pain due to having normal-sized internal organs putting increasing pressure on his small body. According to Self, Villechaize often slept in a kneeling position so he could breathe more easily.

His ashes were sprinkled into the Pacific Ocean off Point Fermin in San Pedro, Los Angeles, California.

[[Jim Bush]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from melanoma, Cancer deaths in California, Sportspeople from Cleveland, Ohio, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

James Stanley "Jim" Bush (September 15, 1926 – July 10, 2017) was an American National Track and Field Hall of Fame track and field coach.  He was known primarily for his coaching tenure at the University of California, Los Angeles from 1965 to 1984.  During that time, his teams won five NCAA Men's Outdoor Track and Field Championships (1966, 1971, 1972, 1973, 1978 (tied with UTEP) and he coached as many as 30 Olympians. He was born in Cleveland, Ohio.

Bush died on July 10, 2017 in Culver City, California of melanoma at the age of 90.

[[Mangosuthu Buthelezi]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, South African politicians, Activists

Mangosuthu Buthelezi (born 27 August 1928) is a South African politician and Zulu tribal leader. He founded the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) in 1975 and was Chief Minister of the KwaZulu bantustan until 1994. He was Minister of Home Affairs of South Africa from 1994 to 2004. His praise name is Shenge.

During the CODESA negotiations of the early 1990s, he represented the IFP. Following the introduction of the universal franchise in the 1994 general election, Buthelezi led the IFP to join the government of national unity, led by Nelson Mandela. Buthelezi served as Minister of Home Affairs until 2004. He continues to serve as both leader of the IFP and an MP, retaining his seat in the 2014 general election.

In 1964 he played King Cetshwayo kaMpande (his own maternal great-grandfather) in the movie Zulu.

[[Louis Zorich]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Chicago, Musicians from Chicago

Louis Zorich (February 12, 1924 – January 30, 2018) was an American actor.  He was perhaps best known to television audiences for his roles of Paul Reiser's father, Burt Buchman, on the NBC series Mad About You.  He played the role from 1993 to 1999.

Zorich died in Manhattan on January 30, 2018 of heart failure at the age of 93.

[[Paul Reiser]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Jewish American musicians, Jewish American comedians, Jewish American actors, Jewish American writers, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Models from New York City, American composers, American television writers, Writers from New York City, Musicians from New York City, Comedians from New York City, Actors from New York City

Paul Reiser (born March 30, 1956) is an American comedian, actor, model, composer, television personality and writer, author and musician. He is best known for his role in the 1990s TV sitcom Mad About You. He is ranked 77th on Comedy Central's 2004 list of the "100 Greatest Stand-ups of All Time".

His well known movie roles are in Diner (1982), Beverly Hills Cop (1984), a role he reprised in its sequel, Beverly Hills Cop II (1987). Reiser also had roles in James Cameron's Aliens (1986), in which he played the corrupt Carter Burke; The Marrying Man (1991) and Bye Bye Love (1995).

Reiser is Jewish.

[[Isabelle Sadoyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in France, French movie actors, Armenian actors, People from Lyon

Isabelle Sadoyan (12 May 1928 – 10 July 2017) was a French-Armenian actress. She was the wife of actor Jean Bouise.

In her career, she was directed by Jeanne Moreau, Claude Chabrol, Claude Lelouch, Luc Besson, Jean-Luc Godard, Henri Verneuil, Bertrand Tavernier,  Robert Kechichian and Krzysztof Kieślowski.

Sadoyan was known for her roles as Alice in the 1982 movie The Hatter's Ghost alongside Charles Aznavour. Her last role was as Mrs. Warner in the 2016 movie Irreplaceable.

Sadoyan died on 10 July 2017 in Paris of heart failure at the age of 89.

[[Joseph Marcell]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Saint Lucian people, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, Actors from London

Joseph Marcell (born 18 August 1948) is a Saint Lucian born British actor. He is best known for his role as Geoffrey the butler on the NBC sitcom The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air from September 1990 until it ended in May 1996.

[[A. E. Hotchner]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2020 deaths, American editors, American playwrights, American novelists, American philanthropists, Writers from St. Louis, Missouri

Aaron Edward Hotchner (June 28, 1917 – February 15, 2020) was an American editor, novelist, playwright, philanthropist and biographer. 

Hotchner was an editor, biographer, novelist and playwright. In 1948, he met Ernest Hemingway, and the two were close friends until Hemingway's death in 1961. Hotchner is best known for Papa Hemingway, his 1966 biography of Hemingway, whose work he had also adapted for plays and television.

Hotchner's play Sweet Prince was produced Off-Broadway in 1982, at the Theater Off-Park, starring Keir Dullea and Ian Abercrombie.

Hotchner died on February 15, 2020 in Westport, Connecticut at the age of 102.

[[Occupation government's prison camps in Norway during World War Two]]

CATEGORIES: World War II prisoner of war camps in Norway, Nazi concentration camps in Norway, 1940s in Norway, World War II

The occupation government built and used prison camps in Norway during World War Two. 709 prison camps concentration camps, and some death camps were counted by a project, that was under advice by Randi Bratteli and some others; other numbers say "around 500" prison camps.

[[Grini concentration camp]]

CATEGORIES: World War II prisoner of war camps in Norway, Nazi concentration camps in Norway

Grini concentration camp (Grini konsentrasjonsleir; Polizeihäftlingslager Grini) was Norway's largest concentration camp during the occupation of Norway during World War II.

[[Ludwigslust-Parchim]]

CATEGORIES: Rural districts of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern

Ludwigslust-Parchim Rural District (German: Landkreis Ludwigslust-Parchim) is a rural district (Landkreis) of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Germany.

On an area of 4,752 km² about 214,000 people were living in this district in 2016.

Capital is Parchim.

Ludwigslust-Parchim Rural District was created by joining the districts of Ludwigslust Rural District and Parchim Rural District on September 4, 2011.

[[Medway Valley Line]]

CATEGORIES: Railway lines of Kent

The Medway Valley line is a railway line in Kent linking Strood and the Medway Towns with Maidstone West and on to Paddock Wood, Tonbridge and London St Pancras International (peak only). The section from Maidstone West to Tonbridge passes through some of Kent's most picturesque countryside along the narrower sections of the River Medway.

[[Holzheim, Donau-Ries]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Holzheim is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Robert Ruttmann.

[[New Hythe]]

CATEGORIES: Kent boroughs, Villages in Kent

New Hythe is a village in mid-Kent, England. It is on the banks of the River Medway. It is about 5 miles from Maidstone. Its name is from the Old English word Hythe, meaning haven or landing place, It also has a mill. New Hythe railway station is there.

[[New Hythe railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Kent, Railway stations in England

New Hythe railway station is a railway station in New Hythe, Kent. The station is on the Medway Valley Line.

[[Huisheim]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Huisheim is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Hermann Rupprecht of the Social Democratic Party of Germany.

[[Kaisheim]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Kaisheim is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Martin Scharr of the PWG party. It has had a historic abbey since 1133.

[[Chris Beutler]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, American mayors, Politicians from Omaha, Nebraska, Yale University alumni, State legislators of the United States

Chris Beutler (born November 14, 1944) is an American politician. He is the 51st and current Mayor of Lincoln, serving since 2007. He previously served in the Nebraska Legislature from 1979 to 1986 from 1991 to 2006.

He was born in Omaha, Nebraska.

[[Fikret Hakan]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Turkish movie actors

Fikret Hakan (23 April 1934 – 11 July 2017), also known as Bumin Gaffar Çitanak, was a Turkish movie actor. He was the recipient of the honorary State Artist, a prestigious title awarded by the Turkish government. He was born in Balıkesir, Turkey. He was known for his role as Kara in Revenge of the Snakes (Yılanların öcü) (1962).

Hakan died on 11 July 2017 in a hospital in Istanbul, Turkey of lung cancer at the age of 83.

[[Éva Schubert]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Hungarian movie actors, Hungarian television actors, People from Budapest

Éva Schubert (19 January 1931 – 11 July 2017) was a Hungarian actress. She was known for her roles in Egy pikoló világos, Felmegyek a miniszterhez,  and for Frakk, a macskák réme. She won a Kossuth Prize in 2013 for her lifetime achievement. She was born in Budapest.

Schubert died on 11 July 2017 in Budapest at the age of 86.

[[Maihingen]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Maihingen is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Franz Stimpfle.

[[Marktoffingen]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Marktoffingen is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Marlies Häfner.

[[Sabre]]

CATEGORIES: Swords, Fencing

The sabre (British English) or saber (American English; see spelling differences) is a type of backsword. It has a curved blade associated with the light cavalry of the Early Modern and Napoleonic periods. It was first associated with central European cavalry, such as the Hussars. It became widespread in Europe during the Thirty Years' War. In particular the Croat light cavalry helped spread it. In the 17th century a light sabre was also used by infantry. In the 19th century sabres without curved blades became common. These could be used by heavy cavalry. The last sabre to be given to US cavalry was the Patton sabre (Model 1913 Cavalry Sabre) in 1913. 

The sabre was used as a duelling weapon in fencing in the 19th century. This has led to the rise of sabre fencing, which first appeared at the 1896 Summer Olympics. This discipline allows for cuts as well as thrusts, as did the historical sabre.

[[Kárášjohka/Karasjok]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norway

Kárášjohka (Norwegian: Karasjok) is a Norwegian urban area in the municipality, Kárášjohka/Karasjok.

The municipality (of which the urban area is a part,) has Sami and Norwegian as official languages.

The municipality is one of two in Norway where the majority of inhabitants speak Sami and have it as their main language.

[[Durlinsdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Durlinsdorf is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Durmenach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Durmenach is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department in  the eastern France.

[[Wang Shouren]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese people

Wang Yangming (31 October 1472 – 9 January 1529), or Bo'an, was a Chinese philosopher, official, educationist, calligraphist, and general during the Ming dynasty.

[[Durrenentzen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Durrenentzen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department in the eastern France.

[[Eglingen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Eglingen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department in the eastern France.

[[Eguisheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Eguisheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department in the eastern France.

[[Elbach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Elbach is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department in the eastern France.

[[Constantine, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Vaud, 2011 disestablishments in Switzerland

Constantine was a municipality in Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

On 1 July 2011 the former municipalities of Bellerive, Chabrey, Constantine, Montmagny, Mur, Vallamand and Villars-le-Grand merged into the new municipality of Vully-les-Lacs.

[[Vallamand]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Vaud, 2011 disestablishments in Switzerland

Vallamand is a former municipality in the district of Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud, Switzerland.

On 1 July 2011 the former municipalities of Bellerive, Chabrey, Constantine, Montmagny, Mur, Vallamand and Villars-le-Grand merged into the new municipality of Vully-les-Lacs.

[[Chabrey]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Vaud, 2011 disestablishments in Switzerland

Chabrey is a former municipality of the district of Broye-Vully in the Vaud canton in Switzerland.

On 1 July 2011 the former municipalities of Bellerive, Chabrey, Constantine, Montmagny, Mur, Vallamand and Villars-le-Grand merged into the new municipality of Vully-les-Lacs.

[[Montmagny, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Vaud, 2011 disestablishments in Switzerland

Montmagny was a municipality in Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. On 1 July 2011 the former municipalities of Bellerive, Chabrey, Constantine, Montmagny, Mur, Vallamand and Villars-le-Grand joined together to become the new municipality of Vully-les-Lacs.

[[Leirpollen (concentration camp)]]

CATEGORIES: World War II prisoner of war camps in Norway, Nazi concentration camps in Norway

Leirpollen  was a concentration camp in Norway - in municipality Sør-Varanger in Finnmark, during World War Two. Norway was occupied by Germany's military during Adolf Hitler's rule of Germany.

The camp was called an extermination camp (or death camp) for Russian other Soviet soldiers who were prisoners, in a 1998 report by Norway's government.

The camp had 150 prisoners, and least it had Soviet prisoners.6 Also suspected members of the Persfjord groups partisans on the Varanger Peninsula, were held in the camp. In 1943, 11 prisoners were killed, by being hit with one more clubs.

[[Macedonia, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Macedonia is a city in Ohio, United States.

[[Palézieux]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vaud, Former municipalities of Vaud

Palézieux is a village and former municipality of the district Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. Since 2012 it forms part of the municipality of Oron.

[[Canal Fulton, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Canal Fulton is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Jackson, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Jackson is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is the county seat of Jackson County.

[[Jackson County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s establishments in Ohio, 1816 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Jackson County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 33,225 people lived there. The county seat is Jackson.

[[Medina County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s establishments in Ohio, 1818 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Medina County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 172,332 people lived there. The county seat is Medina.

[[Buchheim]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Buchheim is a municipality in the district of Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Acetylcholine]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Acetylcholine is a chemical in human nerves that carries information from the sense of touch, sense of smell, etc. This chemical is produced inside the brain in the pituitary gland.

[[Plug-organization]]

CATEGORIES: Bavaria, Beer-related culture, Non-profit organizations, Cultural organizations

[[High-speed rail in Thailand]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Thailand, High-speed rail

In October 2010, the Thai parliament decided to continue planning for a high speed rail (HSR) network. Five different lines - which would touch Bangkok - were to be planned. The lines would be able to handle speeds of 250 km/h.

[[List of bus stations in Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Bus transport, Transport lists, Transport in Wales, Lists about Wales

This is a list of bus stations in Wales:

[[Bus station]]

CATEGORIES: Bus transport

A bus station is a structure where buses stop to pick up and drop off passengers. A bus station is larger than a bus stop, which is usually a place on the roadside where buses stop. Some bus stations are terminal stations, which means that station is the end of the route. Other stations are called transfer stations, which is a station where the routes continue.

Bus stations can be outside, or inside, above or below ground. Some are under shopping centres.

Some bus stations have seats, toilets, travel centres and electronic passenger information systems (which show what time the buses are coming).

[[Hessenstein Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Hesse, Castles in Germany

Hessenstein Castle (German: Burg Hessenstein) is a castle in Hesse, Germany.

The castle lies on a hill in the neighbourhood of Vöhl.

It dates from the 14th century.

[[Bus stop]]

CATEGORIES: Bus transport, Street furniture

A bus stop is a designated place where buses stop for passengers to get on and off the bus. Bus stops at busy locations may have shelters, seating, and possibly electronic passenger information systems; less busy stops may use a simple pole to mark the location.

[[Langres]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haute-Marne, Subprefectures in France

Langres is a commune of France and a subprefecture of the Haute-Marne department in northeastern France, in the Grand Est region.

[[Français fondamental]]

CATEGORIES: French language

Français fondamental is a simplified version of French language with a goal to teach French to foreigners and the populations of the French Union, while France wanted to improve the spreading of its language in the world. A series of surveys conducted in the 1950s and 1960s show that a limited number of words are used in the usual way, both orally and in writing and in all circumstances, As well as a limited number of grammatical rules necessary for the functioning of the language.

[[Beavercreek, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Beavercreek is the largest city in Greene County, Ohio, United States.

[[New Philadelphia, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

New Philadelphia is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is the county seat of Tuscarawas County.

[[Wyoming, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Wyoming, Ohio is a city in Ohio, United States.

[[Shopkins]]

CATEGORIES: Toys

Shopkins are tiny toys that you can collect. You can put them on pencils. You can play when them and make things out of them like earrings, keychains etc.

[[Augustin Buzura]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Romanian writers, Romanian journalists

Augustin Buzura (awɡusˈtin buˈzura; September 22, 1937 –July 10, 2017) was a Romanian novelist and short story writer. He was also known as a journalist, essayist and literary critic. He was a member of the Romanian Academy, he has been the president of the Romanian Cultural Foundation since 1990 and president of the Romanian Cultural Institute between 2003 and 2004.

Buzura died on July 10, 2017 in Bucharest, Romania of a heart attack at the age of 79.

[[Mangesh Tendulkar]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, Deaths from bladder cancer, Cancer deaths in India, Indian cartoonists, Maharashtra

Mangesh Tendulkar (1934 – 10 July 2017) was an Indian artist as cartoonist and humourist. He has also written in many magazines on cartoons.  He was born in Kolhapur, Maharashtra. In a series of 100 cartoons, he set forth his concerns about the cities Maharashtra and the preservation of Pune’s once-leafy environs with his trademark good-humoured, gentle skepticism.

Tendulkar died on 10 July 2017 at a hospital in Pune, Maharashtra of pulmonary embolism caused by bladder cancer at the age of 82.

[[Luigi Ferdinando Tagliavini]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory arrest, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Italian composers, Italian musicians, Organists, Harpsichordists, Musicologists, People from Bologna

Luigi Ferdinando Tagliavini (7 October 1929 – 11 July 2017), was an Italian organist, harpsichordist, musicologist and composer. He was born in Bologna. He has conducted studies in music classes organ, piano and composition with Riccardo Nielsen to Conservatory of Bologna and Paris Conservatory (in the class of Marcel Dupré).

[[Gerrit Braks]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Dutch mayors, Dutch Roman Catholics, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Members of the Senate of the Netherlands, Politicians from North Brabant, Presidents of the Senate of the Netherlands

Gerardus Johannes Maria "Gerrit" Braks (23 May 1933 – 12 July 2017) was a Dutch politician of the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA). He was born in Uden, North Brabant.

He was a member of the Catholic People's Party from 1975 until 1980 when this party became part of the Christian Democratic Appeal. He was a member of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands in 1977–1980, 1981–1982, 1986 and 1989. He was minister of farming and fishery in 1980–1981, and 1982–1989, and was in this function during the Chernobyl disaster.

In 1989 he was minister of education and sciences and he was minister of farming, nature management and fishery in 1989–1990. He was a member of the Senate of the Netherlands from 11 June 1991 until 10 June 2003. And as such he was parliamentary group leader in the senate from 18 June 1999 until 2 October 2001 when he became president of the Senate until 2003.

Braks died on 12 July 2017 in Sint-Michielsgestel, North Brabant, of a cerebral hemorrhage at the age of 84.

[[Division of Korea]]

CATEGORIES: History of Korea

The division of Korea between North and South Korea happened because of the Allied victory in World War II in 1945. After Japan surrendered, the Allies made Japan give up all the colonies they took through military force, even those before WWII started. Even though Korea was a colony of Japan before WWII, Japan still had to give it up because it used military force to take it over. So after 35 years, Korea no longer became a colony of the Empire of Japan. However,        on the same day Japan surrendered, the  Soviet Union invaded Korea, after having occupied Northeast China.

The United States and the Soviet Union occupied the country, meaning they had their military there, with the border between their zones of control along the 38th parallel, or the land on the Korean Peninsula from east to west 38 degrees North.

With the rise of the Cold War, negotiations between the United States and the Soviet Union failed to create an independent, unified Korea. In 1948, the elections led by the UN were held only in the southern part of Korea, which was occupied by the United States. This led to the creation of the Republic of Korea in South Korea, which was afterwards followed by the creation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in North Korea. The United States supported the South, and the Soviet Union supported the North, and each government claimed sovereignty, or the right to rule itself, over the whole Korean Peninsula.

In 1950, North Korea invaded South Korea in order to take over all of Korea, which began the Korean War. Just before North Korea took over all of Korea, the United States sent its military to take back South Korea. After it took back South Korea, the United States tried to take over North Korea until China, North Korea's communist ally, pushed back the United States. This led to a tug-of-war that lasted throughout the war. In 1953, the fighting ended in stalemate, meaning neither side won the war, and the border was once again put on the 38th parallel, but this time it became the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ).

The Korean War (1950–1953) left the two Koreas separated by the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) in the later part of the Cold War and even to this day.

Due to this division, North and South Korea have become two extremely different countries. Now it has major differences between cultures, economies, health, politics, and even languages.

[[Chuck Blazer]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Cancer deaths in New Jersey, American fraudsters, Criminals from New York City, Businesspeople from New York City, Sportspeople from New York City

Charles Gordon "Chuck" Blazer (April 26, 1945 – July 12, 2017) was an American former soccer administrator. He held a number of high level positions before becoming a government informant on widespread corruption within organized soccer.

In 2013, Blazer admitted to conspiring with other FIFA Executive Committee members to accept bribes with the failed bid of Morocco and the successful bid of South Africa to become World Cup hosts in 1998 and 2010 respectively. Blazer's admissions came during testimony given at a sealed sentencing proceeding in a New York federal court. He was a FIFA Executive Committee member from 1996 to 2013, the CONCACAF General Secretary from 1990 until 2011, and Executive Vice President of the U.S. Soccer Federation.

Blazer died of colorectal cancer on July 12, 2017 in a hospital in New Jersey at the age of 72. At the time of his death, Blazer suffered from coronary artery disease and diabetes.

[[Sam Glanzman]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, American comics artists, American comics writers, American military personnel of World War II, Writers from Baltimore, Maryland

Samuel Joseph "Sam" Glanzman (December 5, 1924 – July 12, 2017) was an American comics artist.

Glanzman was best known for his Charlton Comics series Hercules, about the mythological Greek demigod; his biographical war stories about his service aboard the U.S.S. Stevens for DC Comics and Marvel Comics; and the Charlton Comics Fightin' Army feature "The Lonely War of Willy Schultz", a Vietnam War-era serial about a German-American U.S. Army captain during World War II.

Glanzman died at the age of 92 on July 12, 2017 under hospice care in Brooklyn, New York after falling and undergoing surgery.

[[Ray Phiri]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, South African entertainers, Guitarists, Jazz musicians, Singers

Raymond Chikapa Enock Phiri (23 March 1947 – 12 July 2017) was a South African jazz guitarist, singer, fusion and mbaqanga musician. He was born in Mpumalanga to Malawian immigrant worker and South African guitarist nicknamed "Just Now" Phiri. 

Phiri became founding member of the Cannibals in the 1970s. When the Cannibals disbanded Ray founded Stimela, with whom he conceived gold and platinum-selling albums like Fire, Passion and Ecstasy (1991), Look, Listen and Decide (1992) as well as the controversial People Don't Talk So Let's Talk.

Phiri died at the age of 70 on 12 July 2017 at a Nelspruit hospital from lung cancer.

[[Tod Sloan]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Canada, Canadian ice hockey forwards, Chicago Blackhawks players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Ice hockey people from Quebec

Aloysius Martin "Tod" Sloan (November 30, 1927 – July 12, 2017) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player. Sloan played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Toronto Maple Leafs and Chicago Black Hawks. 

Sloan was a member of three Stanley Cup championship teams: 1949 and 1951 in Toronto, and 1961 in Chicago. Sloan also played for the Pittsburgh Hornets and Cleveland Barons of the American Hockey League in the earlier stages of his career. 

Sloan died on July 12, 2017 in Sutton, Ontario from complications of Alzheimer's disease at the age of 89.

[[Marxheim]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Marxheim is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Robert Ruttmann.

[[Ephedra]]

CATEGORIES: Herbs, Gymnosperms

Ephedra is a group of plants. It is the only one in its family, Ephedraceae. Ephedra species are found naturally in many places, like southwestern North America, southern Europe, northern Africa, southwest and central Asia, northern China and western South America.

Ephedra species often grow in the temperate zone. They often grow on shores or sandy places where they get a lot of sunlight. In English, they are often called joint-pine, jointfir, Mormon-tea. In Chinese, it is called mahuang (麻黄).

Some species, like Ephedra sinica, are used in medicine.

[[Taichung’s 7th Redevelopment Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Taichung’s_7th_Redevelopment_Zone, taiwan

Taichung’s 7th Redevelopment Zone（臺中市第七期市地重劃區）（7th Redevelopment Zone）located in Xitun District and Nantun District, this area have many  apartment, department store and office.

[[New London, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin

New London is a city in Wisconsin, United States. There were 7,295 people living there according to 2010 census.

[[Coates, Cambridgeshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cambridgeshire

Coates is a village in Cambridgeshire in the United Kingdom.

[[Cazis]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Cazis (Tgazas) is a municipality of the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipalities of Portein, Präz, Sarn and Tartar merged into the municipality of Cazis.

[[Conneaut, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Conneaut is a city in Ashtabula County, Ohio, United States. It is along Lake Erie at the mouth of Conneaut Creek. 12,841 lived there at the 2010 Census.

[[Derrinturn]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ireland, County Kildare

Derrinturn (Doire an tSoirn) is a village in County Kildare, Ireland. It is about 60 from Dublin.

[[Emlingen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Emlingen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Cortland, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Cortland is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Manuela Schwesig]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Converts to Christianity, German Lutherans, Government ministers of Germany, Politicians from Brandenburg, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany

Manuela Schwesig (born May 23, 1974 in Frankfurt an der Oder) is a German politician of the SPD. She is the current Minister-President of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.

From 2008 to 2013 she was minister of health and social affairs in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. 

From 2013 to 2017 she was federal minister of family affairs, senior citizens, women and youth in the Third Merkel Cabinet, succeeded by fellow party member Katarina Barley.

Since July 4, 2017 she has been Minister-President of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, succeeding fellow party member Erwin Sellering.

Scheswig converted to Christianity in 2010, when she was baptized into the Evangelical Church in Germany.

[[Ekamai bus terminal]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Bangkok, Transport in Thailand, Bus transport

The Ekamai bus terminal (sometimes transcribed as  Ekkamai-)  is a bus terminal (or bus station) on Sukhumwit Road in Bangkok.

The station is in Khlong Toei District (of Bangkok).

[[Nordland]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Norway

Nordland is a county in Norway.

It has borders with county Finnmark, county Nord-Trøndelag, and Sweden.

[[Deilingen]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Deilingen is a municipality of the district Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Villadossola]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Piedmont

Villadossola (Piedmontese: Vila d'Òssola) is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola in the Italian region Piedmont.

Villadossola borders the following municipalities: Beura-Cardezza, Domodossola, Montescheno, Pallanzeno, Seppiana.

[[Lemi]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of South Karelia

Lemi is a municipality in south Finland. There were 3,070 people living there on 31 March 2016. It is next to the municipalities of Luumäki, Savitaipale and Taipalsaari.

[[Malitbog, Southern Leyte]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Philippines

Malitbog is a municipality in the province of Southern Leyte, Philippines.

[[Olshany]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Belarus

Olshany (Альшаны, Ольшаны) is a town in Republic of Belarus. It is located in Stolin Raion, Brest Voblast. Its documental records began in 1392.

[[Canet d'Adri]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Canet d'Adri is a municipality in the province of Girona and autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[New London, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

New London is a city in Minnesota in the United States.

[[Ensisheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Ensisheim is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[English alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabets, English language

The modern English alphabet is a Latin alphabet of 26 letters (each having an uppercase and a lowercase form) – exactly the same letters that are found in the ISO basic Latin alphabet:

The exact shape of printed letters changes depending on the typeface (and font). The shape of handwritten letters can be very different from the standard printed form (and between individuals), especially when written in cursive style. See the individual letter articles for information about letter shapes and origins (follow the links on any of the uppercase letters above).

Written English uses 18 digraphs (strings of two letters to represent just one sound), such as ch, sh, th, ph, wh, etc., but they are not considered separate letters of the alphabet. Some traditionsDecember 2014 also call two ligatures, æ and œ, and the ampersand (&) part of the alphabet.Alphabet.oga

[[Bus lane]]

CATEGORIES: Bus transport

A bus lane or bus-only lane is a lane limited to buses, and are used to speed up public transport that otherwise would be held up by traffic congestion.

Some bus lanes can be used by Taxis, Motorcyclists and Cyclists at any time and some bus lanes can only be used before and after a certain time.

[[ISO basic Latin alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Latin alphabet

The ISO basic Latin alphabet is a version of the Latin alphabet and is made of two sets of 26 letters, the same as the English alphabet, codified in many different national and international standards and used widely in international communication.

The two sets contain the following 26 letters each:

[[Little Canada, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

Little Canada is a city in Minnesota, United States. It has a population of 9,773 residents as of 2010.

[[New London, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, County seats in Missouri

New London is a city in Missouri in the United States.

[[Canadian, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Canadian is a city in Texas, United States.

[[Tamara Miansarova]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, Soviet singers, Russian singers, Pop singers

Tamara Grigoryevna Miansarova (née Remnyova, no; 5 March 1931 – 12 July 2017) was a Soviet and Russian lyric soprano.pop singer and professor of Russian Academy of Theatre Arts, She best known for her hit May There Always Be Sunshine. She was born Kirovohrad, Soviet Union.

Miansarova died in Moscow of a pulmonary embolism on 12 July 2017 at the age of 86.

[[Américo Amorim]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Portuguese businesspeople, Billionaires

Américo Ferreira Amorim (21 July 1934 – 13 July 2017) was a Portuguese heir and businessman. He was ranked by Forbes as the 385th richest person in the world in January 2015. His wealth was at $4.8 billion (July 2017) He was known for having a 50% interest in Corticeira Amorim. He was born in Mozelos, Santa Maria da Feira, Portugal.

Amorim died on 13 July 2017 at his home in Grijo, Portugal after a short-illness, aged 82.

[[Vince Farrar]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from oropharyngeal cancer, Cancer deaths in England, English rugby union players

Vincent "Vince" Farrar (birth registered January→March 1947 – 13 July 2017) was an English professional rugby league footballer. He was born in Pontefract, England. He played in the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, and coached in the 1980s.

Farrar played at representative level for Great Britain, England, and Yorkshire, and at club level for Featherstone Rovers (Captain) (Heritage № 451), Cronulla-Sutherland Sharks, Hull F.C., and Sheffield Eagles during the era of contested scrums, was captain of Hull during the 1978–79 season, and 1979–80 season, and coaching at club level for Featherstone Rovers.

Farrar died on 13 July 2017 of oropharyngeal cancer in Sheffield, South Yorkshire at the age of 70.

[[Joaquim Molins i Amat]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Spain, Spanish politicians, People from Barcelona

Joaquim Molins i Amat (9 February 1945 – 13 July 2017) was a Spanish politician. He was born in Barcelona. He was a member of the Congress of Deputies (1979–1986 and again from 1993–2000) and Parliament of Catalonia (1988–1993).

Molins died in Barcelona on 13 July 2017 of pancreatic cancer at the age of 72.

[[Khas people]]

CATEGORIES: Nepalese people, Ethnic groups in India, Himalayas

Khas people (खस जाति) are people of Indo-Aryan ethno-linguistic group. They are indigenous native speakers of Nepali language (Khas Kura; translit.Khas speech) which is an Indo-Aryan language.  Khas people have been referred as Parbatiya and Pahari or Gorkhali.  Khas are most dominant faction in Nepal.  They are around 31% of Nepal but nearly two thirds of government officials.  The word “Khas” is little used in modern times.  Khas peoples call themselves by their group names such as Bahun, Kshetri, Sanyasi/Sannesi, Kami, Damai, etc.

[[Megesheim]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Megesheim is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Karl Kolb.

[[Chitral]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Chitral (چترال, چھترار) is the capital of the Chitral District. It is on the western bank of the Chitral River. It has population of 20,000.

[[Mertingen]]

CATEGORIES: Donau-Ries

Mertingen is a municipality in the district of Donau-Ries in Bavaria in Germany. The mayor is currently Albert Lohner. The Roman Via Claudia Augusta was built nearby.

[[Thapa]]

Thapa (थापा; IAST:Thāpā) is a family name or surname used by Nepalese belonging to both Magar caste within Khas people of Indo-Aryan group and Magar caste of Sino-Tibetan group.

Thapa was a title given to warriors in the ancient Khas Kingdom.Both Magar Thapa and Kshetri Thapa has done remarkably significant for Nepal.Magar Thapa who servers the British Army,Indian Army and Nepali Army in abundance are the main warriors for Nepal unification.The father of Greater Nepal Shreepach Prithivi Narayan Shah told to be a Magar King.In present Nepal both Thapa Kshetri and Thapa Magar are doing great in Politics and enhancing National Pride.According to many famous Historian,all the Khas of Nepal were originated in the western region of Nepal from the Mongolian community of Magar and Gurung.This is the main reason the so called Cheetri in Nepal has Magar and Gurung caste and genetically and physically alike the Magar and Gurung. It is proved many inscriptions in the present day region of Old Khas Kingdom. There were names of Thapa warriors in pillar inscription as:

Be it auspicious. Yasu Thapa, son of Bhimadev, established the herostone in 1256 Saka era.... Be it auspicious. Dhamu Khadga, son of Bhimadev... The above inscription also proved that Thapas and Khadkas (Khadgas) had same Kshatriya father but their actual clan name was not given.

Thapas has been involved in politics of Nepal for long time. Thapas were prominent military heads in various princely states in ancient Nepal. Thapas led military and civil administration in the unified Kingdom of Nepal after 1806 AD. Bhimsen Thapa of Bagale Thapa clan rose to prominence after the assassination of King Rana Bahadur Shah of Nepal by King's step-brother in 1805 AD. After the event, an investigation was run by Bharadars (Ministers) which caused massacre of 55 senior officers at Bhandarkhal garden by Thapa Kaji (ministers) group making them as most dominant faction in Nepalese politics.

.It would be true to say that History has been written by the Brahamin which underestimated and burried the history of all the other beautiful community of Nepal.

After Bhimsen rose to power, member of another Thapa family, Bada (senior) Kaji Amar Singh ThapaNot to be confused with father of PM Bhimsen Thapa, Sanu (junior) Kaji Amar Singh Thapa who was 8 years younger than Senior Kaji Amar Singh. and his family were added to make Thapa Khalak dynasty stronger. Large number of Thapa leaders took part in Anglo-Nepalese War in 1814-16 AD. The immediate family of Bhimsen and Senior Kaji Amar Singh took over all the military commands in that war. Another unrelated warrior Bhakti Thapa also led the war at Deuthal aged 71 and died too. Thapas were out of power after the rise of Rana dynasty who were blood relatives of Thapas. Later Panchayat government of Nepal that began in 1961 AD saw large number of Thapas in the cabinet.

[[Kshetri]]

Khas/Kshetri or Khas/Chhetri (क्षेत्री) are Turanid Ab-Original Native From  of people belonging to Turkic-Mongol Mixed caste in Khas group, a Altaic ethno-linguistic group. Generally, the Parvate/Pahari (hilly) Kshatriyas are called as Kshetris or Khas Kshetris. Many historians called Kshetris as Decendents Of Magars. Kshetris served as rulers, administrators, governors and warriors as per their Occupational caste. They were able to dominate most of the Nepalese history through monopolizing government and military upto 1951 AD. After democracy in Nepal, Kshetris were still visible in the government especially dominating Panchayati government and still monopolizing military.

According to 1854 Muluki Ain (Legal Code) of Nepal, Kshetris belong to sacred thread bearers (Yagyopavit) and twice born (Dvija) Hindus.

[[Bahun]]

Bahun (Khas Brahmin) (बाहुन) are group of people belonging to Brahmin caste in Khas group, an Indo-Aryan ethno-linguistic group. Generally, the Parvate/Pahari (hilly) Brahmins are called as Bahuns or Khas Bahuns. Bahuns mainly served as priests, teachers and astrologers as per their caste. Bahuns were able to hold government offices, administration and politics.

According to 1854 Muluki Ain (Legal Code) of Nepal, Bahuns belong to sacred thread bearers (Yagyopavit) and twice born (Dvija) Hindus.

[[Alexander ALX100]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Alexander ALX100 was a minibus body built by Alexander between 1997 and 1999, on the Mercedes-Benz O814D Vario and O810D van chassis, It was fitted with 25 to 31 seats.

The ALX100 was similar to the bus body Plaxton Beaver 2, which was also bodied on the Mercedes-Benz Vario.

[[New England, North Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Dakota

New England is a city in North Dakota, United States.

[[Clara Ponsatí i Obiols]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1957 births, People from Barcelona, Economists

Clara Ponsatí i Obiols (born in 1957 in Barcelona) is a Catalan economist. She was appointed Counsellor of Education of the Generalitat of Catalonia by President Carles Puigdemont the 14  July 2017.

[[Alexander ALX200]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Alexander ALX200 was a single-decker bus body built by Alexander in 1996 to 2001. It was created for low-floor bus chassis produced from the late 1990s.

The body was primarily built on Dennis Dart SLF and Volvo B6LE chassis.

[[Arkansas City, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Cowley County, Kansas

Arkansas City  is a city in Kansas, United States.

[[Alexander ALX300]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Alexander ALX300 (later known as the TransBus ALX300 and the Alexander Dennis ALX300) was a single-decker bus body. It was built by Alexander and then Transbus International and then Alexander Dennis from 1997 to 2007 respectively. It was made for low-floor bus chassis produced from the late 1990s.

The body could be built on the MAN 18.220 chassis, MAN 18.240 chassis, DAF SB220 chassis or Volvo B10BLE chassis.

[[Courtship]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage

A courtship is a time in the relationship of a couple. During a courtship, a couple gets to know one another. They later decide if they will get engaged, married or other such agreement. A courtship may be a private and informal matter between two people. On the other hand, it may be public. Or it could be a formal arrangement with the approval of a family.

There is a great difference between couples. The average extent of a courtship differs quite a bit across the world. Courtship may be entirely omitted, as in some cases of arranged marriage.

In the United Kingdom, there was a poll of over 3,000 engaged or married couples. The average time between first meeting and an accepted marriage proposal was two years and eleven months. The women felt ready to accept at an average of two years and seven months.

In the earlier 1800s, young adults were expected to court with the intention of finding a marriage partner, not social reasons. In the more traditional forms of Christianity, this concept of courtship has been kept.

In recent research, it has been found that marriage rates have dropped with people. There are not so many courted relationships in the society of today. This means that fewer people are getting married and practicing premarital sex. Many families are started with children, and then marriage. Traditions are referred to as a thing of the past. However, there are many people who still follow the old-fashioned courting route for their relationships.

[[Kyrgyzstan League]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues

The Kyrgyzstan League (Kyrgyz: Кыргызстан футбол чемпиондугу) is a football league which is top division in Kyrgyzstan. The league has games every year. The current champions are Alay from Osh. The team with the most titles is Dordoi Bishkek from Bishkek.

[[Alexander ALX400]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Alexander ALX400 (later known as the TransBus ALX400 and the Alexander Dennis ALX400) is a 2-axle double-decker low-floor bus body. It was built from 1997 to 2006 by Alexander and then TransBus International and then Alexander Dennis respectively.

The body could be built on the Dennis Trident 2 chassis, Volvo B7TL chassis, or DAF DB250 chassis.

[[Alexander ALX500]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Alexander ALX500 (later known as the TransBus ALX500) is a 3-axle double-decker low-floor bus body. It was built by Alexander and then TransBus International from 1997 to 2002.

The body could be built on the Dennis Trident 3 chassis and Volvo Super Olympian chassis.

The body was mainly sold in Hong Kong but some have been imported to the United Kingdom.

[[Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1817 establishments, 1810s establishments in Germany, Colleges and universities in Germany, Halle, Saxony-Anhalt, Martin Luther, Saxony-Anhalt

The Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg (German: Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg, shortened MLU) is a German public university in Halle and Wittenberg, in the state of Saxony-Anhalt.

It was established by a merger in 1817 and is named after Martin Luther.

President is Udo Sträter.

It had nearly 20,000 students in 2015.

Its focus is on all sorts of sciences.

[[Commugny]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Commugny is a municipality of the district of Nyon in the Swiss canton of Vaud.

[[Celerina/Schlarigna]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Celerina/Schlarigna (German/Italian Celerina; Romansh Roh-putèr-Schlarigna.ogg) is a municipality in the district of Maloja in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Eschbach-au-Val]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Eschbach-au-Val is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Atlanta, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Cowley County, Kansas

Atlanta  is a city in Kansas, United States.

[[Atlanta, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Atlanta  is a city in Missouri, United States.

[[Chatham Main Line]]

CATEGORIES: Railway lines of Kent

The Chatham Main Line is a railway line in England linking London Victoria to Dover Priory / Ramsgate, Via Medway (and Chatham).

[[Atlanta, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Atlanta  is a city in Texas, United States.

[[Lóránd Hegyi]]

CATEGORIES: Art critics, Living people, 1954 births

Lóránd Hegyi, was born on April 19, 1954 in Budapest, Hungary is an art historian, curator and writer.

[[Toronto, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kansas

Toronto  is a city in Kansas, United States. 

[[Broadview Heights, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Broadview Heights  is a city in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, United States. It is a suburb in the Greater Cleveland area. 19,400 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Blue Ash, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Blue Ash is a city in Hamilton County, Ohio, United States. It is a suburb of Cincinnati. 12,114 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Defiance, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Defiance is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is the county seat of Defiance County.

[[Defiance County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in Ohio, 1845 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Defiance County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 39,037 people lived there. The county seat is Defiance.

[[Mur, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Vaud, 2011 disestablishments in Switzerland

Mur is a former municipality in the district of Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

On 1 July 2011 the former municipalities of Bellerive, Chabrey, Constantine, Montmagny, Mur, Vallamand and Villars-le-Grand merged into the new municipality of Vully-les-Lacs.

[[Carrouge, Vaud]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Vaud

Carrouge is a former municipality in the district of Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

On 1 July 2016 the former municipalities of Carrouge, Ferlens and Mézières were combined into the new municipality of Jorat-Mézières.

[[Clayton, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Clayton is a city in Miami and Montgomery counties in the U.S. state of Ohio. 13,209 people lived there at the 2010 census. It is part of the Dayton Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Montebello, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California, 1920 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in California

Montebello  (Spanish and Italian for beautiful mountain) is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States. It is located in the southwestern area of the San Gabriel Valley. It is considered part of the Gateway Cities.

[[Gabrovo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Bulgaria

Gabrovo (Габрово) is a city in central northern Bulgaria. It is the administrative centre of Gabrovo Province.

[[Turkic states]]

CATEGORIES: Turkic languages

The Turkic states are countries where most of its people speak a Turkic language as their first language or have Turkic ancestry. There are six countries considered to be Turkic states: Turkey, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan. The last 4 countries are commonly known as "the Stans". All of them except Turkey used to be part of the Soviet Union until its fall in 1991. While most of the people of all these countries are Muslim, none of these countries use the Arabic alphabet to read and write their own language. Either they use the Latin alphabet, like Turkey, Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan, or they use the Cyrillic alphabet, like Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan. While the people of Xinjiang, the Uighurs, are part of the Turkic peoples, it is not officially considered part of the Turkic states because it is controlled by China. While Northern Cyprus, which is most made of Turkish people, calls itself its own country, Turkey is the only other country that recognizes its statehood, or its being a state.

[[Denkingen]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Denkingen is a municipality of the district of Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Uighur alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabets, Uyghur language

The Uighur alphabet (also: Uyghur alphabet) is the alphabet created by the Uighurs to read and write the Uighur language. It is based on the Arabic alphabet. Unlike the Arabic alphabet, however, Uighur has specific letters to write vowel sounds, rather than just diacritic marks. Writing vowels in Uighur is required, not optional.

[[Alexander Dash]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Alexander Dash is a step-entrance midibus body built by Walter Alexander Coachbuilders from 1991 to 1997. It could be built on the Dennis Dart or Volvo B6 chassis.

It was built with either a horizontal or V-shaped windscreen.

[[Mühlheim an der Donau]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Mühlheim an der Donau ('Mühlheim on the Danube') is a town of the district Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is on the right bank of the river Danube and is 7 km northeast of Tuttlingen.

[[Aiguaviva]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Aiguaviva is a municipality in the province of Girona and autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Tarapoto]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Peru

Tarapoto is a city in Peru. It is in the San Martín Region.

[[Perdizes, Minas Gerais]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Minas Gerais

Perdizes is a municipality in the west of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.

Neighboring municipalities are: Patrocínio (N), Serra do Salitre (NE), Ibiá (E), Araxá (SE), Uberaba (S), Santa Juliana and Pedrinópolis (W).

[[Eschentzwiller]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Eschentzwiller is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Kent Coast Line]]

CATEGORIES: Railway lines of Kent

The Kent Coast line is a railway line in Kent linking Dover Priory to Margate.

[[Ewa Demarczyk]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2020 deaths, People from Kraków, Polish singers

Ewa Maria Demarczyk (16 January 1941, in Kraków, Poland – 14 August 2020, in Kraków) is a Polish singer. She started singing in 1961. Two years later she won an award at the National Festival of Polish Song in Opole. Demarczyk ended her career in 1999. She has 3 albums.

[[New London, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

New London is a city in Texas in the United States. 

[[Kether Donohue]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Kether Donohue (born October 31, 1985) is an American actress, singer, and voice actress. She was born in Manhattan, New York City and has performed in many movies and television programs. These include You're The Worst, Pitch Perfect, Hope & Faith,  Grease Live and The Bay.

[[Mexico, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, County seats in Missouri

Mexico is a city in the U.S. state of Missouri.

[[Jackson family]]

CATEGORIES: Jackson family

The Jackson family is an American family of singers who originated in Gary, Indiana. Performing as members of The Jackson 5 and as solo artists.They the children of Joseph Walter and Katherine Esther Jackson.They were very successful in the field of popular music from the late 1960s onwards.  As a group, the eldest sons Jackie, Tito, Jermaine, Marlon, Randy and Michael, made the family's reputation, facilitating the subsequent success of siblings Rebbie, La Toya, and Janet. The Jackson 5 became known as the "First Family of Soul" and the First Family of music in later years.

[[FC Dordoi Bishkek]]

CATEGORIES: Kyrgyz football clubs

FC Dordoi Bishkek is a football club from Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. The club plays in the Kyrgyzstan League. Dordoi Bishkek is the most successful club in the league, with 9 titles.

[[FC Alga Bishkek]]

CATEGORIES: Kyrgyz football clubs

FC Alga Bishkek is a football club from Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. The club plays in the Kyrgyzstan League. Alga Bishkek is the second most successful club in the league, with 5 titles.

[[FC Abdysh-Ata Kant]]

CATEGORIES: Kyrgyz football clubs

FC Abdysh-Ata Kant (also called Abdysh-Ata) is a football club from Kant, Kyrgyzstan. The club plays in the Kyrgyzstan League.

[[Philadelphia, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tennessee

Philadelphia is a city of Loudon County, Tennessee, United States.  The population was 7,477 at the 2000 census.

[[Museo de Arte Moderno y Contemporáneo de Santander y Cantabria]]

CATEGORIES: Art museums in Spain, 1908 establishments in Europe, 1900s establishments in Spain, Cantabria

The Museo de Arte Moderno y Contemporáneo de Santander y Cantabria (also known as MAS) is an art museum in Santander, Spain. Today the museum specializes in modern and contemporary art.

[[Scranton, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Osage County, Kansas

Scranton is a city in Kansas, United States.

[[Scranton, North Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Dakota

Scranton is a city in North Dakota, United States.

[[New Carlisle, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

New Carlisle is a city in Ohio, United States.

[[New Franklin, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

New Franklin is a city in Ohio, United States.

[[Montreal, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin

Montreal is a city in Wisconsin, United States.

[[Choctaw, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Choctaw is a city in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Springfield, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tennessee, County seats in Tennessee

Springfield is a city in Tennessee in the United States. It is the county seat of Robertson County.

[[Springfield, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan

Springfield is a city in Michigan in the United States. Springfield, Oregon

[[Springfield, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon

Springfield is a city in Oregon in the United States.

[[Springfield, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota

Springfield is a city in South Dakota in the United States. 

[[Glasgow, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Glasgow is a city in Missouri in the United States.

[[Glasgow, Montana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Montana, County seats in Montana, 1887 establishments in the United States

Glasgow is a city in Montana in the United States. It is the county seat of Valley County. About 3,250 people lived there in 2010.

Glasgow was founded in 1887 as a railroad town. Both Amtrak and the National Weather Service have facilities in Glasgow that link the city to the surrounding region. Nearby Fort Peck Dam provides tourist business.

[[Paris Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, Pansexual people, Living people, Michael Jackson, Models from California, Actors from Beverly Hills, California

Paris-Michael Katherine Jackson (born April 3, 1998) is an American model and actress. Jackson is the second and only daughter of Michael Jackson and Debbie Rowe.

[[Peru, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska

Peru is a city in Nebraska, United States. As of the 2010 census, the city population was 865.

[[Paris, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, County seats in Missouri

Paris is a city in Missouri in the United States.

[[Paris, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tennessee, County seats in Tennessee

Paris is a city in the U.S. state of Tennessee. It had a population of 25,171 in 2010. It has been called the "World's Biggest Fish Fry". It has a 70-foot replica of the Eiffel Tower.

[[Allensville, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Kentucky

Allensville is an unincorporated community of Kentucky in the United States.

[[Blandville, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kentucky

Blandville is a city of Kentucky in the United States.

[[Burlington, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Kentucky, County seats in Kentucky

Burlington is a census-designated place in the U.S. state of Kentucky. It is the county seat of Boone County.

[[Dycusburg, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kentucky

Dycusburg is a city of Kentucky in the United States.

[[Hebron Estates, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kentucky, Bullitt County, Kentucky

Hebron Estates is a city of Kentucky in the United States.

[[Heritage Creek, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kentucky

Heritage Creek is a city of Kentucky in the United States.

[[Louisville/Jefferson County metro government (balance), Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kentucky

Louisville/Jefferson County metro government (balance) is a city of Kentucky in the United States.

[[Whitley City, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Kentucky, County seats in Kentucky

Whitley City is a census-designated place in McCreary County, Kentucky.

[[Jean-Pierre Bernard]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Cancer deaths in France, French movie actors, French television actors, French stage actors, Actors from Paris

Jean-Pierre Bernard (22 January 1933 – 7 July 2017) was a French movie, television and stage actor. He was born in Paris. He has appeared in many French movies over a 50-year period and became known internationally for his role of a French climber named Jean-Paul Montaigne in the 1975 movie The Eiger Sanction that was directed by and starred Clint Eastwood.

Bernard studied at the French National Academy of Dramatic Arts. His French language movie appearances include: Adelaide (1968) directed by Jean-Daniel Simon, Le Soulier de satin (1985) directed by Manoel de Oliveira and Mon ami le traître (1988) directed by José Giovanni .

Bernard died on 7 July 2017 in Paris of stomach cancer, aged 84.

[[Marina Ratner]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, American mathematicians, Deaths from stroke, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Moscow, Russian Jews, Russian mathematicians, Soviet Jews

Marina Evseevna Ratner (Мари́на Евсе́евна Ра́тнер; October 30, 1938 – July 7, 2017) was a Russian-American professor of mathematics at the University of California, Berkeley. She worked in ergodic theory. She was born in Moscow, and of Jewish descent.

Around 1990, she proved a group of major theorems concerning unipotent flows on homogeneous spaces, known as Ratner's theorems. Ratner was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1992, awarded the Ostrowski Prize in 1993 and elected to the National Academy of Sciences the same year. In 1994, she was awarded the John J. Carty Award from the National Academy of Sciences.

Ratner died in Berkeley, California on July 7, 2017 of a stroke at the age of 78.

[[Don Johns]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Canada, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Rangers players, Minnesota North Stars players, Sportspeople from Ontario, American Hockey League players

Donald Ernest "Don" Johns (December 13, 1937 – July 8, 2017) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman. He played 153 games in the National Hockey League for the Montreal Canadiens, New York Rangers, and Minnesota North Stars. He was born in St. George, Ontario.

Johns died on July 8, 2017 in Pointe-Claire, Quebec from a heart attack, aged 79.

[[Davis, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Yolo County, California, 1868 establishments in California

Davis is a city in Yolo County, California, United States. It was founded in 1868 and incorporated on March 28, 1917. It houses a campus at the University of California. In 2010, 65,622 people lived there.

[[Gertrude Poe]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory arrest, Disease-related deaths in Maryland, American journalists, American lawyers, American centenarians, American radio personalities, Writers from Maryland

Gertrude Louise Poe (September 21, 1915 – July 13, 2017) was an American journalist, lawyer, real estate agent, insurance agent, and radio broadcaster. She was born in Granite, Maryland. Poe served as the editor of Laurel Leader in Laurel, Maryland from 1939 to 1980. She was known as "Maryland's First Lady of Journalism."

Poe turned 100 in September 2015.

Poe died on July 13, 2017 in Montgomery County, Maryland of respiratory arrest at the age of 101.

[[Mahi Beamer]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from COPD, American composers, American dancers, Singers from Hawaii, People from Honolulu

Edwin Mahiokinaai (Mahi) Copp Beamer (December 5, 1928 – July 14, 2017) was an American tenor falsetto singer, composer and hula dancer of Hawaiian ancestry.  He was born in Honolulu in the Territory of Hawaii. In 2006, Mahi Beamer was inducted into the Hawaiian Music Hall of Fame. He was named a "Living Treasure of Hawaii" in 2008 by the Honpa Hongwanji Mission of Hawaii. 

In 1959, Beamer had an uncredited part as a singer in the Columbia Pictures movie Forbidden Island, which starred Jon Hall and was filmed on location in Hawaii. Beamer has performed at Carnegie Hall  in New York City, and for thirteen years was a featured performer of Nalani Kele's Polynesian Review at the Stardust Resort and Casino in Paradise, Nevada.

Beamer died of complications from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on July 14, 2017 in Honolulu at the age of 88.

[[Anne Golon]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, Deaths from colorectal cancer, French journalists, French novelists, People from Toulon, Writers from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur

Anne Golon (17 December 1921 – 14 July 2017) was a French author, better known to English-speaking readers as Sergeanne Golon. She was most known for a series of novels about a heroine called Angelique. She was born in Toulon, France. She was married to his writing partner Serge Golon until his death in 1972.

Golon died of colorectal cancer on 14 July 2017 in Versailles, France at the age of 95.

[[Ottawa, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Kansas, Cities in Kansas

Ottawa is a city in Franklin County, Kansas, United States. It is also the county seat of Franklin County. It is on both banks of the Marais des Cygnes River near the center of Franklin County. In 2010, 12,649 people lived there.

[[Julia Hartwig]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Polish poets

Julia Hartwig-Międzyrzecka (14 August 1921 – 14 July 2017) was a Polish writer and translator. She was born in Lublin, Poland. She was considered to be one of Poland's most important female poets.

Her first poems appeared in the journal "Odrodzenie" in 1944. Hartwig lived in Paris from 1947-50. In 1954, she published Z niedalekich podróży (From Nearby Places), a collection of articles. She published her first collection of poetry Pożegnania (Farewells) in 1956.

Hartwig died on 14 July 2017 in Gouldsboro, Pennsylvania of congestive heart failure at the age of 95.

[[Jodie Whittaker]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Actors from Yorkshire

Jodie Auckland Whittaker (born 17 June 1982) is an English actress. She first became known for her 2006 feature movie debut Venus. She received British Independent Film Award and Satellite Award nominations for that role. 

Whittaker was later praised for her roles in the cult science fiction movie Attack the Block (2011), the Black Mirror episode "The Entire History of You" (2011). She also played grieving mother Beth Latimer in Chris Chibnall's TV series Broadchurch (2013–2017).

On 16 July 2017, BBC announced that Whittaker would become the thirteenth (and the first female) incarnation of The Doctor in the British TV series Doctor Who, taking over Peter Capaldi as role of the doctor in the 2017 Christmas special episode ". She will leave the role in 2022.

[[William "Hootie" Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from mesothelioma, Cancer deaths in the United States, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), Politicians from Georgia (U.S. state), Politicians from South Carolina, Businesspeople from South Carolina, US Republican Party politicians

William Woodward "Hootie" Johnson (February 16, 1931 – July 14, 2017) was an American banker and the chairman of the executive committee at Bank of America. He was a member of the South Carolina Business Hall of Fame and a chairman of Augusta National Golf Club. He was born in Augusta, Georgia. From 1957 through 1958, Johnson served in the South Carolina House of Representatives. He was a member of the Republican Party.

Johnson died on July 14, 2017 of mesothelioma in Columbia, South Carolina at the age of 86.

[[Anne Buttimer]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from endometrial cancer, European geographers, People from Cork (city), Irish scientists

Anne Buttimer (31 October 1938 – 15 July 2017) was an Irish geographer. She was emeritus professor of geography at University College, Dublin. She was born in Cork, Ireland. She was president of the IGU 2000–2004 and the first geographer to be vice-president of Academia Europaea in 2012.

Buttimer died of endometrial cancer in Dublin on 15 July 2017 at the age of 78.

[[Babe Parilli]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple myeloma, Cancer deaths in Colorado, Green Bay Packers players, Cleveland Browns players, Oakland Raiders players, New England Patriots players, New York Jets players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Vito "Babe" Parilli (May 7, 1930 – July 15, 2017) was an American football player. He played quarterback for seven seasons in the National Football League and one in the Canadian Football League in the 1950s, and then in the American Football League for all ten seasons in the 1960s.

Parilli died on July 15, 2017 in Parker, Colorado of complications from multiple myeloma at the age of 87.

Parilli was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1982. On November 15, 2014, he was inducted into the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame.

[[Vjekoslav Vojo Radoičić]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from lung cancer, Croatian people, Painters, Sculptors

Vjekoslav Vojo Radoičić, also known as Vojo Radoičić (10 November 1930 – 15 July 2017), was a Croatian painter, sculptor, printmaker, and stage designer. He was born in Požega while Croatia was still under the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. 

Radoičić lived and worked in Vienna, London and Zagreb, and had close ties with those places as depicted in his artwork, however he spent most of his time in Rijeka, Croatia. Vojo Radoicic has held more than 180 independent exhibitions in Croatia, as well as abroad. He was known for depicting the places he has traveled to in vibrant colors through a child's mindset to tell stories of his experiences. 

Radoičić was awarded the Order of Croatian Danica for his works to culture.

Radoičić died of pneumonia complicated by lung cancer in Rijeka, Croatia on 15 July 2017 at the age of 86.

[[Drug withdrawal]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Health problems, Human issues

Drug withdrawal is the group of symptoms that occur upon the fast discontinuation or decrease in intake of medications or recreational drugs.

In order to experience the symptoms of withdrawal, one must have first developed a form of drug addiction, which may occur as physical dependence, psychological dependence, or both.

[[Abdul-Rahman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Saudi Arabian people, Princes and princesses, Civil servants

Abdul-Rahman bin Abdulaziz (عبد الرحمن بن عبد العزيز آل سعود, ar; 1931 – 13 July 2017) was a Saudi prince and civil servant. He was a senior member of the House of Saud. From 1978 through 2011, he served as Deputy Minister of Defense and Aviation. His father was Ibn Saud. 

Rahman died on 13 July 2017 of kidney failure at the age of 86.

[[Ram Nath Kovind]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Presidents of India, Current national leaders, Activists, Conservatives, Politicians from Uttar Pradesh, Governors of Bihar, Bharatiya Janata Party politicians

Ram Nath Kovind (born 1 October 1945) is an Indian politician. Kovind became the 14th President of India upon winning the 2017 presidential election in July 2017. He is the second president to have been a Dalit leader and member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He was Governor of Bihar from 2015 to 2017. He served as Member of Parliament from 1994 through 2006. Ram Nath Kovind is also prez candidate of NDA.

In June 2017, he won the nomination of the Bharatiya Janata Party for President of India in the 2017 Indian presidential election. After winning the nomination, he resigned from his post as Governor of Bihar, and President of India Pranab Mukherjee accepted his resignation on 20 June 2017. According to polling after voting was closed on 17 July 2017, Kovind was expected to win the presidency with a voting outcome of 99%. Kovind was declared as the winner after the counting of votes held on 20 July 2017.

[[Chief Minister of West Bengal]]

CATEGORIES: West Bengal

The Chief Minister of West Bengal is the leader of the Council of Ministers of West Bengal. The Chief Minister is the parliamentary chair of the government party or coalition in the state's legislative assembly. The Chief Minister also has significant executive authority as the head of the executive branch of the state government. The Chief Minister is formally elected by the Governor of West Bengal, who is the ceremonial head of state of West Bengal.

[[Josette Biyo]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Filipino scientists, Teachers, Filipino educators, Living people

Dr. Josette T. Biyo (born 1958; née Talamera) is a Filipino educator and former executive director of the Philippine Science High School System. She has received international recognition for her contributions to science and education.

[[Viluppuram district]]

CATEGORIES: Viluppuram District

Viluppuram (also Villupuram and Vizhupuram) is one of the 32 districts in Tamil Nadu state situated on the southern India. The district headquarters is located at Viluppuram. Viluppuram district came into existence on 30 September 1993 when it was created out of South Arcot district. Viluppuram is the largest district in the state.This district is having variety of tourist spots which are more than 500 years old. The district has temples, mosques and churches which are very old and famous.

Viluppuram District was earlier a part of South Arcot District along with Cuddalore District. It was then separated from Cuddalore and became a new district on 30 September 1993. Because of this, the history of Viluppuram district closely resembles that of Cuddalore.

[[Viluppuram]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tamil Nadu, Viluppuram District

Viluppuram is a municipality and the administrative headquarters of Viluppuram district, the largest district in the state of Tamil Nadu, India. It is well connected by both road and rail to all the important cities in Tamil Nadu. The town is a major railway junction, and National Highway 45 passes through it. Agriculture is its main source of income. As of Government of India 2014 data, Viluppuram had a population of 121198. The town's literacy rate has been recorded as 90.16% by Census 2011.

In 1919, Viluppuram was officially constituted as a municipality. It is made up of 36 wards, making it the largest city and municipality in Viluppuram district.

[[Gingee Fort]]

CATEGORIES: Viluppuram District

Gingee Fort or Senji Fort (also known as Chenji, Chanchi, Jinji or Senchi) in Tamil Nadu, India is one of the surviving forts in Tamil Nadu, India. It lies in Villupuram District, 160 kilometres (99 mi) from the state capital, Chennai, and is close to the Union Territory of Puducherry. The fort is so fortified, that Shivaji, the Maratha king, ranked it as the "most impregnable fortress in India" and it was called the "Troy of the East" by the British. The nearest town with a railway station is Tindivanam and the nearest airport is Chennai (Madras), located 150 kilometres (93 mi) away.

Originally the site of a small fort built by the Chola dynasty during the 9th century AD, Gingee Fort was modified by Kurumbar during the 13th century. As per one account, the fort was built during the 15–16th century by the Nayaks, the lieutenants of the Vijayanagara Empire and who later became independent kings (Nayaks of Gingee ). The fort passed to the Marathas under the leadership of Shivaji in 1677 AD, Bijapur sultans, the Moghuls, Carnatic Nawabs, French and the British in 1761. The fort is closely associated with Raja Tej Singh, who unsuccessfully revolted against the Nawab of Arcot and eventually lost his life in a battle.

[[Planes (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: English-language movies, Cars (franchise), 2013 animated movies, 2010s adventure movies, 2013 comedy movies, Disney animated movies, American adventure movies, American comedy movies

Planes is a 2013 American computer-animated movie. Unlike the Cars movies (which were produced by Pixar), Planes was produced by DisneyToon Studios. The movie is a spin-off to the Cars franchise, but it did not receive the kind of success that Cars received. Planes follows a crop-duster plane Dusty Crophopper who, under Skipper's training, becomes a racer in the Wings Around the Globe rally. With a lot of patience, Dusty has to face his racing rival Ripslinger as well as many other natural obstacles that come in his way. The movie was released on August 9, 2013. It had a sequel named Planes: Fire & Rescue, which was released in 2014.

[[Mercedes-Benz Axor]]

CATEGORIES: Trucks

The Mercedes-Benz Axor was a truck built by Mercedes-Benz from roughly 2001 to 2008.

[[Mercedes-Benz Actros]]

CATEGORIES: Trucks

The Mercedes-Benz Actros is a truck built by Daimler Trucks/Mercedes-Benz. It was first built in 1995. 

Daimler Trucks launched the version II of the Actros in 2002, while the version III was launched in 2007. 

The fourth generation, called "the New Actros", was launched in July 2011.

[[2017 Indian presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in Asia, 2010s in India, 2017 elections, July 2017 events

[[Roosevelt University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Chicago, Franklin D. Roosevelt, 1945 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in Illinois

Roosevelt University is a  coeducational, private university with campuses in Chicago, Illinois and Schaumburg, Illinois. Founded in 1945, the university is named in honor of both former President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt. The university's classes is based on principles of social justice.

The university enrolls around 7,000 students between its undergraduate and graduate programs and is ranked #81 in U.S. News & World Report's "Midwest Universities -2012". Roosevelt is also home to the Chicago College of Performing Arts. The University's newest academic building, Wabash, is located in The Loop of Downtown Chicago. It is the tallest educational building in Chicago, the second tallest educational building in the United States, and the fourth

-largest academic complex in the world. 

President Charles R. Middleton was inaugurated in 2002, and retired in 2015. The current president, Dr. Ali Malekzadeh, started in 2015.

[[Trevor Baxter]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, British playwrights, Writers from London, Actors from London

Trevor Baxter (18 November 1932 – 16 July 2017) was a British actor and playwright. He was educated at Dulwich College and the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. He was best known for playing Professor George Litefoot in Doctor Who. He was born in London.

Baxter also appeared in Adam Adamant Lives!, Z-Cars, Maelstrom, Thriller, The New Avengers, Jack the Ripper, (1988) The Barchester Chronicles (1982) and Doctors.

Baxter died on 16 July 2017 in London at the age of 84.

[[Nexhmije Hoxha]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2020 deaths, Albanian politicians, Communists

Nexhmije Hoxha (nɛdʒmijɛ ˈhɔdʒa; February 8, 1921 – February 25, 2020) was the widow of Albanian communist leader Enver Hoxha.

Hoxha was born Nexhmije Xhuglini in Bitolj. She studied at the Queen Mother Pedagogical Institute in Tirana. After World War II she married prime minister and Communist Party leader Enver Hoxha.

After her husband died in 1985, Nexhmije Hoxha was elected Chairwoman of the Democratic Front. She was forced to resign as chairwoman of the Democratic Front in December 1990, and was replaced by Prime Minister Adil Çarçani.  She was arrested and sentenced to prison for misuse of Albanian government funds during her husband's regime, but later released.

Hoxha died on February 25, 2020 at her home in Tirana, Albania at the age of 99.

[[Patty Jenkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American television directors, Movie directors from California, Screenwriters from California, People from Lawrence, Kansas

Patricia Lea "Patty" Jenkins (born July 24, 1971) is an American movie director and screenwriter. She directed Monster (2003), Wonder Woman (2017) ,and Wonder Woman 1984 (2019).

In 2011, Jenkins received an Emmy nomination for Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series for the pilot of The Killing.

[[2017 CONCACAF Gold Cup]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in association football, 2017 in the United States, July 2017 events, Soccer in the United States

The 2017 CONCACAF Gold Cup was the 14th CONCACAF Gold Cup tournament. It featured teams from North and Central America, along with some Caribbean teams. The tournament was played between 7–26 July 2017. It was hosted by the United States.

Mexico were the defending champions.

[[Canada men's national soccer team]]

CATEGORIES: National football teams, Soccer in Canada

Canada national soccer team is the national soccer team of Canada.

[[Curaçao national football team]]

CATEGORIES: National football teams, Curaçao

The Curaçao national football team is the football team that represents Curaçao. This is not to be confused with the Territory of Curaçao national football team, which existed until 1954 when Curaçao merged into the Netherlands Antilles national football team. The Netherlands Antilles dissolved into different countries on 10 October 2010. The Curaçao national football team is seen as the official successor of the Netherlands Antilles national team.

The team's first match as a new country was played on 18 August 2011 against the Dominican Republic.

[[Rebus]]

CATEGORIES: Word games

A rebus is a picture, letter, number, or symbol that is used to represent a different word that has a similar pronunciation. In English, if a person was writing the sentence "I see you tonight" in a text message, the person might write "⊙ L C U 2nite", in which the symbol "⊙", which is a picture of an eye, represents the word "I" because it sounds the same, "L" stands for the contracted "will" as in "I'll", the letter "C" represents the word "see", the letter "U" represents the word "you", the number "2" represents the word "to", and the word "nite" is represents the word "night".

[[Raymond Sackler]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Connecticut, American physicians, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from New York City

Raymond Sackler (February 16, 1920 – July 17, 2017) was an American physician, entrepreneur, and philanthropist. Sackler and his brothers Arthur and Mortimer. They worked together and independently, careers as psychiatric researchers and practitioners, business leaders, and philanthropists.

Sackler was known for being closely associated with the now global reach of Purdue Pharma, LLP in the United States, Canada and Mundipharma, Ltd. in Europe, Asia and Africa. Sackler and his wife Beverly established the Raymond and Beverly Sackler Medical Research Centre at the University of Cambridge, School of Clinical Medicine (UK).

Sackler was born in Brooklyn, New York. He studied at New York University. He married Beverly Sackler in 1944. Sackler died on July 17, 2017 of pneumonia at his home in Stamford, Connecticut at the age of 97.

[[Bagale Thapa]]

Bagale Thapa or Bagalya Thapa (बगाले थापा/बगाल्या थापा) is a prominent Kshatriya clan within Khas Thapa. Bagale Thapa belong to Atreya Gotra and Suryavansha (solar) dynasty in Hinduism. They trace their ancestry to legendary Khas King Kalu Thapa since Saka Era 1111 or Vikram Samvat 1246. Bagale Thapa were powerful family while living at Jumla as per Gorkha Rajbanshawali,  the Royal Genealogy of Gorkha Kingdom.

Bada Kaji Amar Singh Thapa belonged to this clan. Prime Minister Bhimsen Thapa, the grandson of Kaji Birbhadra Thapa, also belonged to this clan. His niece Lalit Tripura Sundari and nephew Mathabarsingh Thapa went on to become Queen and Prime Minister of Nepal respectively. War commander Ujir Singh Thapa, General Ranabir Singh Thapa and Colonel Bakhtawar Singh Thapa also belonged to this clan being family members of PM Bhimsen Thapa.

[[With Full Force]]

CATEGORIES: Rock festivals, Festivals in Europe, 1994 establishments in Germany

With Full Force is a German heavy metal and punk music festival held every year since 1994. In 2013, the festival attracted 30,000 attendees. In 2017, the festival took place at the Ferropolis near Gräfenhainichen. This is the first time since 1998 that the festival will not be held in Löbnitz.

Many popular artists have performed here. These include Slayer, Iron Maiden, Rammstein, Marilyn Manson, Motörhead, Machine Head, Amon Amarth, Arkona, In Flames, Slipknot, etc.

[[2017 Ecuadorian general election]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s in South America, History of Ecuador, 2017 elections, February 2017 events, Politics of Ecuador

[[Walther Rathenau]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 births, 1922 deaths, Assassinated people, German businesspeople, German murder victims, Government ministers of the Weimar Republic, Jewish businesspeople, Jewish German politicians, Jewish German writers, Murders by firearm in Germany, Politicians from Berlin, Writers from Berlin

Walther Rathenau (September 29, 1867 in Berlin - June 24, 1922 in Berlin) was a German businessman, writer and politician.

Rathenau was of Jewish descent. He was a member of the social liberal German Democratic Party (Deutsche Demokratische Partei, shortened DDP).

From February 1, 1922, until his death the same year, he was Minister of Foreign Affairs.

He was a victim of a political assassination. He was murdered by an ultranationalist and antisemitic organization called Organisation Consul. He died at the age of 54.

[[Massacres at the concentration camp at Botn]]

CATEGORIES: Massacres in Norway, November events, 1942 in Europe, 1940s in Norway, January events, 1943 in Europe

Massacres happened at the concentration camp at Botn - in Norway's Nordland county, during World War Two.

According to the Yugoslav War Crimes Commission, 73 prisoners were executed by shots from small arms, on 26 November 1942.

The next massacre of sick prisoners took place in January 1943. The War Crimes Commission found out, that 50 people were executed on 23 January. Norwegian guards were present at the massacre, and the German crews carried out the executions.

[[Beisfjord massacre]]

CATEGORIES: Massacres in Norway, July events, 1942 in Europe, 1940s in Norway

The Beisfjord massacre (Beisfjord-massakren) was a massacre on 18 July 1942 in Beisfjord, Norway of 288 political prisoners who were killed at the concentration camp in Beisfjord: camp number 1" Lager I Beisfjord

The massacre was ordered a few days earlier by the Reichskommissar for Norway Josef Terboven.

[[La Cañada Flintridge, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

La Cañada Flintridge is a city in California.

[[Attorney General's Office (United Kingdom)]]

CATEGORIES: Attorneys general, United Kingdom law

The Attorney General's Office (AGO) provides legal advice and support to the Attorney General and the Solicitor General (the Law Officers) who give legal advice to the British Government. The AGO helps the Law Officers perform other duties in the public interest, such as looking at sentences which may be too low.

[[Immaculate Conception]]

CATEGORIES: Mary (mother of Jesus), Catholicism

The Immaculate Conception is the Catholic doctrine which says that Mary, the mother of Jesus, was conceived in the womb of her mother, Saint Anne, without original sin. The Catholic Church teaches this because they believe that Jesus, as God, had to be conceived in a mother whose soul was without any kind of sin, since God does not like sin. The Immaculate Conception became official Catholic teaching in 1854, announced by Pope Pius IX. Four years later, people claimed that Mary appeared to a girl named Bernadette in Lourdes, France, and that Mary told Bernadette: "I am the Immaculate Conception."

The Immaculate Conception does not mean the conception of Jesus in the womb of his mother Mary. This is correctly called the Incarnation.

The Feast of the Immaculate Conception is celebrated on December 8 each year.

[[Geoje]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Geoje is a city in South Gyeongsang province, just off the coast of the port city of Busan, South Korea. Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering (former Daewoo Shipyard) in Okpo and Samsung Heavy Industries (SHI) in Gohyeon are both located on Geoje Island. The city also offers a wide range of tourist sights. The city is made up of a number of islands, of which by far the largest is Geoje Island. There are multiple

dong in the city: Jangpyeongdong, Okpo-dong and Gohyeon.

[[Wilfried (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Cancer deaths in Austria, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Austrian singers, Austrian movie actors, Songwriters

Wilfried (Wilfried Scheutz; 24 June 1950 – 16 July 2017) was an Austrian singer-songwriter and actor. He was born in Bad Goisern am Hallstättersee, Austria. He was known for representing Austria in the 1988 Eurovision Song Contest with his song "Lisa Mona Lisa". He was also an actor with his best known role was in Hilde, das Dienstmädchen (1986).

Wilfried died in Lilienfeld, Austria on 16 July 2017 from complications of esophageal cancer at the age of 67.

[[Renault Magnum]]

CATEGORIES: Trucks

The Renault Magnum is a truck that was built by Renault Véhicules Industriels and then Renault Trucks from 1990 to 2013. The Magnum was available as a semi and rigid truck.

[[Galeras]]

CATEGORIES: Andes, Volcanoes of South America, Geography of Colombia

Galeras (Urcunina among the 16th-century native people) is an Andean stratovolcano in the Colombian department of Nariño, near the departmental capital Pasto. Its peak rises 4276 above sea level. It has erupted many times since the Spanish conquest. Its first historical eruption was recorded on December 7, 1580. A 1993 eruption killed nine people, including six scientists who had gone down into the volcano's crater to take samples of gases and measure gravity in an attempt to be able to predict future eruptions. It is currently the most active volcano in Colombia.

[[Shigeaki Hinohara]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Japanese people, Physicians

Shigeaki Hinohara (日野原 重明) (Shigeaki Hibara; October 4, 1911 – July 18, 2017) was a Japanese physician. He was known for working at St. Luke's International Hospital where he served as honorary director. He was also Sophia University's grief Care Institute director emeritus. He was honorary chairman of the Foundation Sasakawa Memorial Health Cooperation.

Hinohara was born in Yoshiki District, Yamaguchi Prefecture. 

Hinohara became an honorary member of the Japanese Cardiovascular Society and received the Second Prize and the Order of Culture. He was honored by Kyoto Imperial University, Thomas Jefferson University and by McMaster University by receiving an honorary doctorate.

Hinohara died of congestive heart failure on July 18, 2017 in Tokyo at the age of 105.

[[Ottawa County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Ottawa County, Kansas, 1860 establishments in Kansas Territory

Ottawa County (standard abbreviation: OT) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. As of the 2010 census, 6,091 people lived there. The largest city and county seat is Minneapolis.

[[Harvey Atkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Toronto, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Cancer deaths in Canada, Deaths from lung cancer

Harvey Atkin (December 18, 1942 – July 17, 2017) was a Canadian actor and voice actor. He has worked in feature movies and television. He has also done voice-overs, and has voiced animations. He was born in Toronto, Ontario. He was known for his role as Judge Alan Ridenour in a recurring role on the television drama Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, a role he also played in Law & Order: Criminal Intent and Law & Order. He appeared in 95 episodes of Cagney & Lacey as Sergeant Ronald Coleman.

Atkin was also known for voicing Bowser Koopa in several Mario Bros. television series in the late 1980s and 1990s.

Atkin died on July 17, 2017 in Toronto of lung cancer at the age of 74.

[[Gustavo Alessandri Valdés]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Chile, Chilean politicians, Mayors, Chilean lawyers, People from Santiago

Gustavo Alessandri Valdés (30 April 1929 – 18 July 2017) was a Chilean politician and lawyer. He was born in Santiago de Chile. He served as Mayor of Central Commune of Santiago de Chile from 1987 through 1989. He served as MP from 1961 through 1965, again from 1969 through 1971, and once more from 1998 to 2002. He was a member of the National Renewal Party from 1987 until his death in 2017.

Valdés died on 18 July 2017 in Santiago de Chile from complications of Alzheimer's disease at the age of 88.

[[Buddy Wolfe]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Disease-related deaths in Minnesota, American football players, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Minnesota

Les Wolff (April 11, 1941 – July 11, 2017) was an American football player and professional wrestler. He was known by his ring name "Beautiful" Buddy Wolfe, who competed in North American regional promotions including the American Wrestling Association, National Wrestling Alliance and the World Wide Wrestling Federation during the 1970s and 80s. He was trained by Verne Gagne.

Wolfe was born in Blue Earth, Minnesota. 

Wolfe found his greatest success as the tag team partner of Don Jardine wrestling as the second incarnation of The Spoilers in the Tri-State territory. He was one of several men to team with Jardine as Spoiler #2, twice winning the NWA United States Tag Team Championship during the early 1970s. 

Wolff later formed a tag team with "Luscious" Larry Heinimi who together were considered one of the top "heel" tag teams in the Midwest United States during the mid-1970s.

Wolfe died in Hackensack, Minnesota of complications from dementia on July 11, 2017 at the age of 76.

[[Ben's Cat]]

CATEGORIES: Thoroughbred racehorses, 2006 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths by euthanasia, Deaths from surgical complications

Ben's Cat (April 17, 2006 – July 18, 2017) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse. He was born in Maryland. He won multiple stakes races, including six victories in the Mister Diz Stakes and five in the Jim McKay Turf Sprint. He was a four-time Maryland-bred horse of the year.

Ben's Cat was retired in June 2017 with a record of 32 wins from 63 starts and earnings of over $2.6 million.

Ben's Cat suffered a serious case of colic, requiring surgery on July 6, 2017 for an epiploic foramen entrapment. He suffered from severe surgical complications and was euthanized on July 18, 2017 in a farm in Maryland. He was 11 years old.

[[Ontario, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in San Bernardino County, California

Ontario is a city of California in the United States. It is 35 miles east of downtown Los Angeles.

[[Ontario, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Ontario is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Dimmit County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Dimmit County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 9,996 people lived there. The county seat is Carrizo Springs.

[[Theridiidae]]

CATEGORIES: Spiders

Theridiidae, also known as the tangle-web spiders, cobweb spiders and comb-footed spiders, is a large family of araneomorph spiders first described by Carl Jakob Sundevall in 1833.

[[Ellis County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Ellis County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 149,610 people lived there. The county seat is Waxahachie.

[[El Paso County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

El Paso County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 800,647 people lived there. The county seat is El Paso.

[[Erath County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Erath County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 33,001 people lived there. The county seat is Stephanville.

[[Falls County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Falls County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, 18,576 people lived there. The county seat is Marlin.

[[Praying (Kesha song)]]

CATEGORIES: Kesha songs

"Praying" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Kesha, for her third studio album, Rainbow. The song was written by Kesha along with Andrew Joslyn, Ben Abraham, and Ryan Lewis, known for his work with rapper Macklemore.  The song is different from her other songs. Instead of having the dance-pop and electropop styles that Kesha is known for, "Praying" is a ballad.

The lyrics talk about an abuser, and the main character states, "I hope you're somewhere praying."  Some critics have said that the song is directed towards Dr. Luke, Kesha's former producer and former owner of Kemosabe Records.

The song entered the top 20 of the charts in Australia and Canada and the top 30 in the UK and US.

[[Benjamin Flores Jr.]]

Benjamin Flores Jr, (born July 23, 2002 in Memphis, Tennessee) is an American actor. He is best known for his lead role as Louie Preston in The Haunted Hathaways, and also as Triple G in the Nickelodeon show Game Shakers.

[[Tommy Wiseau]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Polish movie directors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, American movie actors, Polish movie actors, Polish writers, People from Poznań, Actors from New Orleans, Louisiana

Tommy Wiseau (ˈ) (born October 3, 1955) is a Polish-American actor and filmmaker. He produced and directed The Room (2003). It has been described by many critics as "one of the worst movies ever made". 

Wiseau also directed the 2004 documentary Homeless in America and the 2015 sitcom The Neighbors.

[[Summit County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in Ohio, 1840 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Summit County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 541,781 people lived there. The county seat is Akron.

[[Bellerive, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Vaud, 2011 disestablishments in Switzerland

Bellerive is a former municipality in the district of Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

On 1 July 2011 the former municipalities of Bellerive, Chabrey, Constantine, Montmagny, Mur, Vallamand and Villars-le-Grand merged into the new municipality of Vully-les-Lacs.

[[Villars-le-Grand]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Vaud, 2011 disestablishments in Switzerland

Villars-le-Grand is a former municipality in the district of Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

On 1 July 2011 the former municipalities of Bellerive, Chabrey, Constantine, Montmagny, Mur, Vallamand and Villars-le-Grand merged into the new municipality of Vully-les-Lacs.

[[Vully-les-Lacs]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud, 2011 establishments in Switzerland

Vully-les-Lacs is a municipality in the district of Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

[[Cudrefin]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud, Cities in Switzerland

Cudrefin is a municipality in Switzerland. It is in Vaud canton. On 1 January 2002, Champmartin is a part of the municipality of Cudrefin.

[[Hamilton, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Hamilton is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is the county seat of Butler County.

[[Middletown, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Middletown is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is in Butler and Warren counties.

[[Lebanon, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Lebanon is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is the county seat of Warren County.

[[Warren County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1803 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Warren County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 212,693 people lived there. The county seat of Lebanon.

[[Salt, Girona]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Catalonia, Municipalities in Catalonia

Salt is a municipality in the comarca of the Gironès and autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain. It is on the right bank of the Ter next to Girona, with which it was merged from 1974 to 1984. The A-7 autopista and N-141 road pass through the municipality.

[[Matthew Willson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Canadian movie producers, Canadian movie actors

With over 40 film and TV credits to his name and 1000 stage performances under his belt, Matthew Willson is an award-winning actor, director, producer and financier of both film and theatre. ACTRA member and Vice President of The Hamilton Theatre Company Matthew cut his teeth as a kid in numerous TV commercials before moving into film and television - including recognizable roles in: The Handmaid's Tale, American Hangman, Arrival, Jack Reacher, Reign, The Strain, Rookie Blue, Murdoch Mysteries, Queer as Folk, The Ranch and dozens of successful indie films. A dedicated humanitarian who has made meaningful connections to several philanthropic organizations, Matthew is involved both financially and physically with Sick Kids, Child Hunger Brantford and the National Theatre School Drama Festival (of which he is the only individual financier to support this national organization supporting children in the arts). Beyond that, Matthew supports his local community through various theatre and arts programs and initiatives. An entrepreneur at heart, Matthew launched Willson Entertainment Productions in 2010 which has produced a number of films that include Bully, On the Line, Skinning the Cat, Whole Lotto Love, Politics, Hotel Room, Alone, Schrodinger's Cat, Project Zero, and Sport documentaries on: TSN, Sports Net, ESPN. 

Matthew splits his time between Toronto and his hometown of Paris, Ontario.  where he currently resides with his wife Jacqueline and two sons, Thatcher and Beckett.

[[Ter (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Spain, Catalonia

The Ter is a Spanish river. It is 208 long. It runs through the comarques of Ripollès, Osona, Selva, Gironès, and Baix Empordà. It ends at the Mediterranean Sea at l'Estartit.

[[Lake Sarnen]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Switzerland, Obwalden

Lake Sarnen (Sarnersee) is a lake in the canton of Obwalden in Switzerland. It is on the Sarner Aa. It flows out of the Lake Lungern, through the Lake Sarnen, and into Lake Lucerne. The municipalities of Sarnen and Sachseln are located on the shores of the lake, and the Brünig railway line follows the eastern shore.

[[Drance]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Switzerland

The Drance is a river in the canton of Valais

in Switzerland. It is a tributary of the Rhône. The length is 44. The drainage basin is 680. It is at the confluence of the Drance de Bagnes and Drance d'Entremont.

[[Ontario, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oregon

Ontario is a city in Oregon in the United States.

[[Churwalden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Churwalden (Curvalda) is a municipality in the district of Plessur in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipalities of Malix and Parpan merged into the municipality of Churwalden.

[[Brunstatt-Didenheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 establishments in France

Brunstatt-Didenheim is a commune of the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. It was incorporated on 1 January 2016 by the combination of the former communes of Brunstatt and Didenheim.

[[Innerbraz]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Innerbraz is a municipality of the district of Bludenz in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg.

[[Dürbheim]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Dürbheim is a municipality of the district Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg in Germany. The municipality of Dürbheim has the village Dürbheim and the hamlet Risiberg.

[[Abaokoro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kiribati

Abaokoro is a settlement in Kiribati. It is about nine nautical miles from Tarawa. It is in the Tarawa Atoll.

Abaokoro Post Office opened on 13 December 1956.

[[Dublin, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Dublin is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is in Franklin, Delaware, and Union counties.

[[Police (Norway)]]

CATEGORIES: Law enforcement agencies, Norway

The police force for Norway, commonly called politiet, and sometimes called Norwegian police, is formally called Norwegian Police Service (in Norwegian: Politi- og lensmannsetaten).

The police has 15,483 employees (as of 2016). If one also counts the employees of PST, an intelligence agency, the number of employees is over 16,000.

[[Eteimbes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Eteimbes is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Datong]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Datong (大同) is a city in Shanxi province, People's Republic of China.

The number of inhabitants is 3,318,057, as of the 2010 census.

The city is an important distribution and warehousing center for Shanxi, Hebei and Inner Mongolia.

[[Honningsvåg]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Norway

Honningsvåg is a city in the Norwegian county Finnmark. It has 2375 inhabitants (as of 2008).

It became a city in 1996.

[[Tik Tok]]

CATEGORIES: Kesha songs, 2009 songs

"Tik Tok" (styled "TiK ToK") is the debut solo single by American singer-songwriter Kesha.  It is from her debut studio album, Animal.  The song topped charts worldwide, including countries like the UK, Canada, Australia, and the US, where it was the best-performing song of 2010.  It is Kesha's second single after the number-one single "Right Round" by rapper Flo Rida; her vocals are not credited on this song.

[[Jean-Denis Bredin]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, French lawyers, Writers from Paris

Jean-Denis Bredin (17 May 1929 – 1 September 2021) was a French attorney. He was known for being the founding partner of the firm Bredin Prat. He was a member of the Académie française. He was elected on 15 June 1989.

Bredin died on 1 September 2021 in Paris, aged 92.

[[Gabriel de Broglie]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, French historians, French politicians, People from Versailles

Gabriel-Marie-Joseph-Anselme de Broglie-Revel (born 21 April 1931) is a French historian and politician.

Broglie-Revel was elected to the Académie française in 2001. He replaced Alain Peyrefitte. He is a Knight Commander of the Légion d'honneur. He is a distant relative of the ducs de Broglie.

[[Unstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norway, Villages in Europe

Unstad is a village in Norway's municipality of Vestvågøy. The village is on the isle of Vestvågøya.

The village's beach, Unstad Beach, has been used for surfing since 1963.

[[Marc Fumaroli]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2020 deaths, French historians, People from Marseille, Road accident deaths

Marc Fumaroli (10 June 1932 in Marseille – 24 June 2020 in Paris), is a French historian and essayist. Fumaroli was elected to the Académie française on 2 March 1995 and became its Director. He is also a member of the Académie des Inscriptions, the sister academy. 

Following his appointment to a chair in Seventeenth Century Studies at the University of Paris-IV, La Sorbonne (1980), he was elected to a Chair in Rhetoric and Society in Europe (16th and 17th century) at the Collège de France. He held it from 1986 to 2002, until mandatory retirement, and is now an emeritus professor.

[[Jean d'Ormesson]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, French journalists, French philosophers, French novelists, Writers from Paris

Jean Bruno Wladimir François de Paule Le Fèvre d'Ormesson (16 June 1925 – 5 December 2017) was a French novelist. His work mostly was made up of partially or totally autobiographic novels.

On 18 October 1973, he was elected a member of the Académie française, taking seat 12, following the death of Jules Romains. On the death of Claude Lévi-Strauss on 30 October 2009, he became the Dean of the Académie, its longest-serving member until his death in 2017. He was also a Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour. 

In 2010, he was awarded the Ovid Prize.

On 5 December 2017, d'Ormesson died in Neuilly-sur-Seine, at the age of 92.

[[Hélène Carrère d'Encausse]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, French historians, Writers from London

Hélène Carrère d'Encausse (born Hélène Zourabichvili; 6 July 1929 in Paris) is a French historian. She is the permanent secretary of the Académie française. She is a well known historian in specializing in Russian history. She was a recipient of Lomonosov Gold Medal in 2008.

Carrère d'Encausse is a graduate of the elite Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris (Sciences Po).

She was elected to seat 14 of the Académie française in 1990, and her academician's sword was made by the sculptor Goudji. She became permanent secretary on 21 October 1999.

In her book L'Empire éclaté published in 1978 she predicted the fall of the Soviet Union.

She was awarded Grand Cross with Star of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland (2011).

[[Michel Serres]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, French philosophers, French writers

Michel Serres (1 September 1930 – 1 June 2019) was a French philosopher and author. In 1990, Serres was elected to the Académie française, in recognition of his position as one of France's most prominent intellectuals. He serves as a Professor of French at Stanford University.

Serres was a vocal supporter for freely accessible knowledge, especially Wikipedia.

Serres died on 1 June 2019 at the age of 88.

[[René de Obaldia]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, Living people, French playwrights, French poets, Hong Kong

René de Obaldia (born 22 October 1918) is a French playwright and poet. He was elected to the Académie française on 24 June 1999. He began his career in 1960. His first major play, "Génousie," was presented at the Théâtre national populaire.

This was followed by Le Satyre de la Villette, with André Barsacq at the Théâtre de l'Atelier, a comedy which ranked him with his literary forebears Jacques Audiberti, Ionesco, Beckett. He has been, for more than fifty years, one of the most-produced French playwrights on the planet, as well as the most internationally renowned (having been translated into 28 languages).

In 1985 he was awarded the Grand Prix du Théâtre de l’Académie Française.

[[Ethyl iodide]]

CATEGORIES: Iodine compounds

Ethyl iodide (also called iodoethane) is a colorless and flammable chemical compound. It has the chemical formula C2H5I. It is prepared by heating ethanol with iodine and phosphorus.

[[Harshad number]]

In mathematics, a harshad number (also known as a Niven number) is an integer that is divisible by the sum of its digits in a given base. A harshad number in base n is called an n-harshad number. 

[[Pierre Rosenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, French historians, Writers from Paris

Pierre Max Rosenberg  (born 13 April 1936 in Paris) is a French art historian, curator, and professor. Rosenberg is the honorary president a director of the Musée du Louvre in Paris, and since 1995, he has held the 23rd seat of the Académie française. He was Slade Professor of Fine Art at the University of Cambridge in 1987.

[[TG Norba 24]]

CATEGORIES: Italian television

TG Norba 24 is an Italian 24-hour all-news television channel, owned by Gruppo Norba.

The channel's format shows rolling news bulletins, updated every 15 minutes. It broadcasts live from 5am to midnight.

[[Dominique Fernandez]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, French novelists, French LGBT people, LGBT novelists, Gay men, French essayists

Dominique Fernandez (born on 25 August 1929) is a French writer of novels, essays and travel books. Much of his writing explores homosexual experience and creativity. In 1982 he won the Prix Goncourt for his novel about Pier Paolo Pasolini. He was born in Neuilly-sur-Seine, Hauts-de-Seine.

In 2007, he was elected a  member of the Académie française.

[[Pierre Nora]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, French historians, Writers from Paris

Pierre Nora (born  17 November 1931) is a French historian. He was elected to the Académie française on 7 June 2001. He is known for his work on French identity and memory. His name is associated with the study of new history. He is the brother of the late Simon Nora, former French officer.

From 1965 to 1977 he was first assistant and then lecturer at the Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris (Paris Institute of Political Science). Since 1977 he has been the director of studies at the École des hautes études en sciences sociales (School of higher studies in social sciences).

[[François Cheng]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, French historians, French poets, Chinese poets

François Cheng (程抱一, born 30 August 1929) is a Chinese-born French academician, writer, poet and calligrapher. He is the author of essays, novels, collections of poetry and books on art written in the French language, and the translator of some of the great French poets into Chinese.

Born in Nanchang, Jiangxi, China. He became a French citizen in 1973. He was elected to the Académie française in 2002, and was the first person of Asian origin to be a member of the Academy. He was the winner of the 1998 Prix Femina for Le Dit de Tianyi ("The Tale of Tianyi") (pub. Albin Michel, Paris, 1998).

[[Yves Pouliquen]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, French people, French physicians

Yves Pouliquen (born 17 February 1931) is a French physician. His work has been dedicated to the pathology of the cornea.

In 1992, he was made a member of the Académie nationale de médecine.  In 1994 he was awarded the Prix mondial Cino Del Duca and on 29 November 2001 he was elected to the Académie française.

Since 2006, he is the president of the Fondation Singer-Polignac.

[[Max Gallo]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from laryngeal cancer, Cancer deaths in France, French historians, French journalists, Socialist Party (France) politicians, People from Nice

Max Gallo (maks ɡalo; 7 January 1932 – 18 July 2017) was a French writer, historian and politician.

His parents were Italian immigrants. Gallo's early career was in journalism. At the time he was a Communist (until 1956). In 1974, he joined the Socialist Party. 

On April 26, 2007, he became a candidate to become a member of the Académie française. He was elected to the Académie française on 31 May 2007.

[[André Lafargue]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2017 deaths, French journalists, French centenarians, French literary critics, Writers from Paris

André Lafargue (2 July 1917 – 18 July 2017) was a French journalist and theatre critic. He turned 100 in July 2017, two weeks before his death. Lafargue began writing for Paris-Matin, later known as Ce matin, le pays, in 1947. A year later, he joined the Parisien libéré, later known as Le Parisien, in 1948. In the 1970s, he was the founding contributor of the theatre reviews in the newspaper. He retired in 1987.

Lafargue died on 18 July 2017 in Paris at the age of 100.

[[Andrew Paulson]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Businesspeople from Illinois

Andrew Paulson (November 13, 1958 – July 18, 2017) was an American entrepreneur. He was the son of noted American professor Ronald Paulson. His business career was mainly established in Russia.

Shortly after the Russian financial crisis of August 1998, Paulson, together with Anton Kudryashov and Ilya Tsentsiper, founded Afisha, an entertainment and listings magazine that became the cultural touchstone of Moscow and St. Petersburg. In 2006, Paulson with Alexander Mamut founded SUP Media, which became Russia’s largest online media company, consisting of LiveJournal.

Paulson died on July 18, 2017 from lung cancer at the age of 59.

[[Ronald Paulson]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American educators, Writers from North Dakota

Ronald Paulson (born May 27, 1930) is an American professor of English, a specialist in English 18th-century art and culture, and English artist William Hogarth.

Paulson has taught and held many administrative positions at several universities in the United States, including the University of Illinois from 1959 to 1963 and Rice University from 1963 to 1967. He was the Chairman of the Johns Hopkins University English Department from 1967 to 1975. From 1975 to 1984 he was a professor at Yale University and served as the Director of Graduate Studies in the English Department from 1976 to 1983 and the Director of the British Studies Program from 1976 to 1984.

Paulson was born in Bottineau, North Dakota. He studied at Yale University. His son, Andrew, was a businessman made in Russia. 

He has been a member of the editorial board of the academic journal ELH: English Literary History and was senior editor from 1985 to 2004; he served on the editorial boards of the journals Studies in English Literature; PMLA; Eighteenth-Century Studies; and the Johns Hopkins University Press.

[[María Amuchástegui]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Deaths from stroke, Cancer deaths in Argentina, Argentine television actors, Argentine singers, Ballerinas, Actors from Buenos Aires

María Amuchástegui (16 January 1953 – 19 July 2017) was an Argentine television fitness instructor, ballerina, and singer. She was born in Buenos Aires. She became well known in Argentina in the 1980s. Her best known morning fitness shows were Buen día Salud and Buen Día, María, both were made in the 1980s. She was also a singer. Her best known work was the 2006 song "Camino de espejos".

Amuchástegui died in Buenos Aires on 19 July 2017 of a stroke and lung cancer at the age of 64.

[[Miguel Blesa]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths by firearm, Spanish businesspeople, Fraudsters

Miguel Blesa de la Parra (8 August 1947 – 19 July 2017) was a Spanish banker. He was the chairman of the Spanish bank Caja Madrid from 1996 to 2010. He was born in Linares, Jaén, Spain.

In February 2017, Blesa received a six-year jail term in connection with the misuse of company credit cards. Cards were misused by a number of people, including Blesa himself, during the many years he was chairman of Caja Madrid.

Blesa was found dead on a private hunting estate near Córdoba, Spain on 19 July 2017, with a shotgun wound to the chest at the age of 69.

[[Jake Butcher]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Businesspeople from Tennessee, American fraudsters, Politicians from Tennessee, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Knoxville, Tennessee

Jacob Franklin Butcher (1936 – July 19, 2017) was an American banker and politician. He built a financial empire in East Tennessee. He was the Democratic Party nominee for governor of Tennessee in 1978. He was known for his promotion of the 1982 World's Fair in Knoxville, Tennessee. He lost his business and his personal fortune after he was found to have engaged in massive fraud.

Butcher died in Atlanta, Georgia on July 19, 2017 at the age of 81.

[[Sonny West]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from oropharyngeal cancer, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in Tennessee, American movie actors, Actors from Memphis, Tennessee

Sonny West (Delbert West, Jr.; July 5, 1937 – May 24, 2017) was an American actor and stunt performer. He was born in Memphis, Tennessee.

West was known for being a friend and bodyguard of the late singer Elvis Presley with his cousin Red West for sixteen years. He was part of the Elvis entourage at the Elvis Memphis home Graceland, which became known as 'The Memphis Mafia'.

Before and after Elvis' passing, West wrote several books, and made public appearances at Elvis related conventions and gatherings, speaking out on his time working for Presley and their relationship.

West died of lung and oropharyngeal cancer (tonsil cancer) in Hendersonville, Tennessee on May 24, 2017, aged 79.

[[Oropharyngeal cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Oropharyngeal cancer is a disease in which malignant cells form in the tissue of oropharynx. The oropharynx is the middle part of the throat that includes the base of the tongue, the tonsils, the soft palate, and the walls of the pharynx.  

Oropharyngeal cancers can be divided into two types, HPV-positive, which are related to human papillomavirus infection, and HPV-negative cancers, which are usually linked to alcohol or tobacco use.

[[Blaoui Houari]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Algerian people, Singer-songwriters, Conductors, Composers

Blaoui Houari (23 January 1926 – 19 July 2017) was an Algerian singer-songwriter, composer and conductor. During his career, he recorded over 900 songs and released over 100 albums. Houari was born in Oran, Western Algeria, then French Algeria. Houari began his career as a singer-songwriter in the 1940.

During the Algerian War, Houari was arrested by the French army and detained in Sig for his pro-Algerian songs. When Algeria became an independent nation in 1962, he became the head of Oran's public radio and television stations. In 1970, he conducted the Algerian National Orchestra at Expo '70 in Osaka, Japan.

Houari died on 19 July 2017 in Oran of a heart attack at the age of 91.

[[Venkaiah Naidu]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Indian politicians, Conservatives, Bharatiya Janata Party politicians, Indian Hindus

Muppavarapu Venkaiah Naidu, (born 1 July 1949) is an Indian politician. He is the 13th and current Vice President of India since 11 August 2017. On 5 August 2017, Naidu was elected Vice President of India with 67.89% of the votes.

Naidu served as the Minister of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation, Urban Development and Information and Broadcasting in the Narendra Modi cabinet. A well known leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party, he has also served as its national president from 2002 to 2004. Earlier, he was the Union Cabinet Minister for Rural Development in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government.

[[Alexei Leonov]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Cosmonauts, Russian artists, Russian writers, Soviet generals, Soviet writers

Alexei Arkhipovich Leonov (Алексе́й Архи́пович Лео́нов) (30 May 1934 – 11 October 2019) was a Soviet/Russian cosmonaut, Air Force Major general, writer and artist. On 18 March 1965, he became the first human to conduct extravehicular activity (EVA), exiting the capsule during the Voskhod 2 mission for a 12-minute spacewalk. He was born in Listvyanka, West Siberian Krai, Soviet Union.

Leonov died on 11 October 2019 from diabetes-related problems. He was 85. He was the last survivor of the cosmonauts in the Voskhod programme.

[[Self-driving car]]

CATEGORIES: Automobiles, Automotive technologies, Robots

A driverless car (also called autonomous car or self-driving car, i.e. self-operating) is a vehicle that can perform certain tasks on its own, without the help of a human driver. . The car uses sensors to analyze its environment, and doesn't need a a human's help for certain tasks These tasks commoly include parking the car, driving while keeping the same lane on a highway or driving at a predefined speed. In public places, certain buses have been  programmed to travel a given route. As of 2021, self-driving cars have been used in controlled envirnoments more and more. An example of this might be buses that transfer passengers between airport terminals.  

[[Guru Amar Das]]

CATEGORIES: Sikhism, 1479 births, 1574 deaths, Punjabi people

Guru Amar Das (5 May 1479 – 1 September 1574) was the third of the Ten Gurus of Sikhism. He became Sikh Guru on 26 March 1552 at age 73.

[[Pak Beng Dam]]

CATEGORIES: Dams, Thailand

The Pak Beng Dam is a project to build a hydroelectric power plant and a dam on the Mekong river - inside Laos. Construction is scheduled to start in 2022, says website NS Energy.

As of November 2020, Laos is doing evaluations on potential (or possible) impact on the environment; at the same time Laos has delayed, or suspended the project other work on the project, media said in January 2021.

Laos "has already begun preparatory work for the 912-megawatt Pak Beng dam in the northern province of Oudomxay, according to an article in Seattle Times in 2016.

The project is going to be funded by the Chinese company, Datang Overseas Investment.

[[Canadian River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Oklahoma, Rivers of Texas

Canadian River is a river in Arkansas River.

[[Cimarron River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Oklahoma, Rivers of Colorado, Rivers of Kansas

Cimarron River is a river in Arkansas River.

[[Salt Fork Arkansas River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Kansas, Rivers of Oklahoma

Salt Fork Arkansas River is a river in Arkansas River.

[[Dunderland (concentration camp)]]

CATEGORIES: World War II prisoner of war camps in Norway, Nazi concentration camps in Norway

Dunderland was a Nazi concentration camp in Norway during World War Two. It was located in Dunderlandsdalen (a valley) in Rana. The prison camp had had 481 prisoners in May 1945; The purpose of the camp was for the prisoners to do forced labor on the Nordland Line.

In 2017, the remains of the concentration camp were ordered to be preserved; the order came from a government agency:Directorate for Cultural Heritage.

[[Perambalur district]]

CATEGORIES: Perambalur district

Perambalur district is an administrative district in the state of Tamil Nadu, India. The district headquarters is located at Perambalur. The district occupies an area of 1,752 km² and had a population of 565,223 with a sex-ratio of 1,003 females for every 1,000 males in 2011.

Perambalur district is a centrally located inland district of Tamil Nadu. It was trifurcated(thrice-divided) from Tiruchirappalli district and was formed on 1 November 1995. The district is bounded by Cuddalore district in the north, Tiruchirappalli district in the south, Ariyalur in the east and Namakkal and Tiruchirappalli districts in the west.

Population

According to 2011 census, Perambalur district had a population of 565,223 with a sex-ratio of 1,003 females for every 1,000 males, much above the national average of 929. A total of 59,567 were under the age of six, constituting 31,135 males and 28,432 females. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes accounted for 31.01% and .46% of the population respectively. The average literacy of the district was 66.49%, compared to the national average of 72.99%. The district had a total of 149,243 households. There were a total of 299,726 workers, comprising 107,542 cultivators, 91,135 main agricultural labourers, 4,365 in house hold industries, 52,055 other workers, 44,629 marginal workers, 9,762 marginal cultivators, 27,143 marginal agricultural labourers, 978 marginal workers in household industries and 6,746 other marginal workers.

[[Perambalur]]

CATEGORIES: Perambalur district

Perambalur is a municipality town in the state of Tamil Nadu . It is the administrative headquarters of Perambalur district and Perambalur Taluk (Sub-District). Perambalur is the central town of Tamil Nadu. Perambalur district is bounded on the North by Cuddalore and Salem, South by Trichy, East by Ariyalur, West by Trichy and Salem. As of 2011 census, the town had a population of 49,648. There are a set of 11th century Buddhists images around the villages of Perambalur called Perambalur Buddhas.

[[Perambalur taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Perambalur district

Perambalur taluk is a taluk of Perambalur district in Tamil Nadu, India. Its headquarters is the town of Perambalur. Perambalur taluk comprises the town of Perambalur and 27 revenue villages.

[[Ariyalur district]]

CATEGORIES: Ariyalur district

The Ariyalur District is an administrative district in the state of Tamil Nadu in India. The district headquarters is  at Ariyalur. The district area is 1,949.31 km² and population was 752,481 at the 2011 census.

Ariyalur is noted for its cement industries and has huge reserves of lignite. Gangaikonda Cholapuram built by the King Rajendra Cholan of Chola Empire, an UNESCO World Heritage site is in the district. This district is also known for its rich prehistoric fossils. Many fossils of gigantic Molluscs, Jawed fishes were discovered here. Notably, The Rajasaurus, an Indian dinosaur genus was identified here.

According to the 2011 census Ariyalur district has a population of 752,481, roughly equal to the nation of Guyana or the U.S. state of Alaska. This gives it a ranking of 491st in India (out of a total of 640). The district has a population density of 387 inhabitants per square kilometre (1,000/sq mi). Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 8.19%.As of 2011 it is the third least populous district of Tamil Nadu (out of 32), after Perambalur and Nilgiris.

The district became famous in 2008, when theft of 8 idols were discovered from a 9th-century Chola Brahadeeswarar Temple at gangai konda cholapuram was discovered by Archaeological Survey of India(ASI) Government of India officials. One of these idols, the Sripuranthan Natarajan Idol found its way to the National Gallery of Australia. Two of the stolen statues were later returned and are now displayed in the Government Museum at Kumbakonam.

[[Ariyalur]]

CATEGORIES: Ariyalur district, Towns in India

Ariyalur is a town and district headquarters of Ariyalur district in the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu and rich lime stone and surrounded with five cement factory and two suger factory. It is the smallest district headquarters in Tamil Nadu. The town is a part of the fertile Cauvery Delta and the major profession in the town is agriculture.

Ariyalur is administered by a municipality established in 1994. As of 2011, the municipality covered an area of 7.62 km2 (2.94 sq mi) and had a population of 28,902. Ariyalur comes under the Ariyalur assembly constituency which elects a member to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly once every five years and it is a part of the Chidambaram constituency which elects its Member of Parliament (MP) once in five years. 

[[Ariyalur taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Ariyalur district

Ariyalur taluk is a taluk of Ariyalur district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Ariyalur.

[[Nathan Arenas]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 births, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Living people

Nathan Alejandro Arenas (born September 30, 2005) is an American child actor. He auditioned for his very first role ever, like co-star Nina Lu, in the Disney Channel series BUNK'D (a spinoff of Jessie) as Jorge. He also played Robbie in the ABC Studios TV series Criminal Minds and Danny in the Disney+ series Diary of a Future President. Arenas is of Mexican decent.

[[Ulfberht]]

CATEGORIES: Swords

Ulfberht is a transcription of «+VLFBERH+T», and has become the name of some swords found from the 8th century to the 11th century.

Around 170 swords have been found, that have the phrase «+VLFBERH+T», or variations of that, built into the sword. Perhaps «+VLFBERH+T» is a trademark or a family name.

[[Kenneth Jay Lane]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, American fashion designers, Costume designers, Businesspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Businesspeople from New York City

Kenneth Jay Lane (April 22, 1932 – July 20, 2017) was an American costume jewelry designer. He was born in Detroit, Michigan. Lane started designing jewelry and launched his business in 1963 whilst producing bejeweled footwear for Dior and Arnold Scaasi. In 1966 Lane was awarded a special Coty Award for his jewelry design. He also won the Neiman Marcus Fashion Award in 1968.

Lane died in his sleep at his Manhattan apartment on July 20, 2017 at the age of 85.

[[José Bragato]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2017 deaths, Italian conductors, Italian composers, Italian musicians, Argentine musicians, Cellists, Centenarians, People from Udine

José Bragato (12 October 1915 – 18 July 2017) was an Italian-born Argentine cellist, composer, conductor, arranger and musical archivist. He was born in Udine, Italy.

In his early career, was principal cellist in the Colón Theatre orchestra in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Apart from his involvement in classical music he also performed for many years in a number of Ástor Piazzolla's Nuevo tango (New tango) ensembles where his cello solos, which had never before featured in tango, put him in the vanguard of Nuevo tango from its birth in the 1950s.  Since then he has done numerous and varied arrangements of Piazzolla's compositions.

Bragato died on 18 July 2017 in Buenos Aires at the age of 101.

[[Michel Aurillac]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, French lawyers, French politicians, French writers

Michel Aurillac (11 July 1928 – 6 July 2017) was a French lawyer, politician and author. He served as a member of the National Assembly for Indre from 1978 to 1981, and in 1986. He was the Minister of Cooperation from 1986 to 1988. He won the 1987 Prix Narcisse Michaut from the Académie française.

Aurillac died on 6 July 2017 in Indre, France at the age of 88.

[[Ralph Regula]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, American lawyers, American military personnel of World War II, United States representatives from Ohio, US Republican Party politicians

Ralph Straus Regula (December 3, 1924 — July 19, 2017) was an American politician. He served as the United States Representative for Ohio's 16th congressional district from 1973 to 2009. He retired in January 2009 after 18 consecutive terms. He was a member of the Republican Party. 

In the 110th Congress (2007–2009), he was the second longest serving Republican member of the House of Representatives (after Bill Young of Florida).

Regula died in Bethlehem Township, Stark County, Ohio on July 19, 2017 at the age of 92.

[[Marco Aurélio Garcia]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Brazilian politicians, Brazilian educators

Marco Aurélio Garcia, (22 June 1941 – 20 July 2017) was a Brazilian politician. He was a member of the Workers' Party (Partido dos Trabalhadores). He was a Professor of Latin American History on leave from UNICAMP University and a left idealist.  He was previously professor at the Latin American Social Science Faculty of the University of Chile and of the Paris-VIII and Paris-X universities. He was born in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.

Aurélio Garcia died on 20 July 2017 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil of a heart attack, aged 76.

[[John McCluskey, Baron McCluskey]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Scottish politicians, British lawyers, Scottish judges

John Herbert McCluskey, Baron McCluskey (12 June 1929 – 20 July 2017) was a Scottish lawyer, judge and politician. He served as Solicitor General for Scotland, the country's junior Law Officer from 1974 to 1979, and as a Senator of the College of Justice, a judge of Scotland's Supreme Courts, from 1984 to 2004. He was also member of the House of Lords from 1976 until his retirement in 2017.

[[Jonathan Shurberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2017 deaths, American lawyers, American political activists, Jewish activists, Jewish American politicians, Jewish lawyers, Politicians from Maryland, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US Democratic Party politicians

Jonathan Seth Shurberg (March 27, 1963 – July 18, 2017) was an American attorney and community advocate of Jewish descent. He was the 2014 Democratic Party candidate for state delegate. He was a practicing lawyer for over twenty years, and was active in Maryland politics from 2002 until his death.

Over the course of his political career, Shurberg fought for the voting rights of minorities and young people, the civil rights of LGBT individuals, and for pro-choice causes. Shurberg served on the board of Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington, D.C Action Fund, and his 2014 campaign for delegate was endorsed by NARAL Maryland Pro-Choice PAC and Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington, D.C. Action Fund, as well as The Gazette.

Shurberg died on July 18, 2017 in Silver Spring, Maryland from a long-illness at the age of 54.

[[Grady Little]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Texas, Boston Red Sox managers, Los Angeles Dodgers

William Grady Little (born March 30, 1950) was the manager of two Major League Baseball teams. He managed the Boston Red Sox in 2002 and 2003. He also managed the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2006 and 2007. He was blamed for keeping the Red Sox from making the World Series in 2003.

[[Departments of Uruguay]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Uruguay

Uruguay has 19 departments. Each department has an Intendant (similar to a Governor in other countries) elected for a period of 5 years and who is in charge of the public businesses of the department. There is also a Departmental Council (Junta Departamental).

[[Animal Jam]]

CATEGORIES: Online games

Animal Jam is a virtual world made by WildWorks and the National Geographic Society. Many of the players in Animal Jam are children and teenagers. According to the WildWorks website, the game has about 160 million players. Animal Jam is one of the fastest growing children's games in the world.  The game is free to play, but to be able to receive all the things Animal Jam has to offer, a membership needs to be purchased online or through a store-purchased gift card.

In Animal Jam, players enjoy many fun events, like playing games, making friends, and decorating their dens and animals. They also learn facts about science, especially in the field of zoology, the study of animals. Animal Jam takes place in a world called Jamaa, and each player is known in the game as a Jammer.

[[Heukseok Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in South Korea, 2009 establishments, 2000s establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in South Korea

Heukseok(Chung-Ang University) Station is a train station of Seoul Subway Line 9, in Dongjak District, Seoul, South Korea.

[[Graphic pejoratives in written Chinese]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese language

Some Chinese characters for non-Chinese people were racist insults where the words themselves were not the insults, but the characters chosen to write them were. These characters chosen to racially insult people are called graphic pejoratives.  

[[Nandan Kumar Jha]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Jharkhand, Indian businesspeople, Business people, Living people

Nandan Kumar Jha is an Indian entrepreneur and Chief operating officer of News World India. Mr Jha was awarded by National Bravery Award and Jeevan Raksha Padak awards for his courage and promptitude in saving life under circumstances. He was associated to Sahara India till 11 years.

[[Kumaran Mahalingam]]

Kumaran Mahalingam (born 02 March 1981) is an Indian Geologist, Standup  Paddler and a Conservation Educator. He holds three Limca book of Records for different feats in stand up paddling. He is also a certified wilderness first responder from National Outdoor Leadership School, USA.

[[Halfway house]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses, Community

A halfway house is a place that helps people with physical, mental, and emotional disabilities, giving them a place to live while they learn the social and other skills they need to live on their own or with assistance. 

The house has staff workers from the health and helping professions, such as psychologists, social workers, and educators. They help the residents one-on-one or in groups, to adjust to more independent living. Some staff may live in the house. Some houses have large, same-sex dormitory rooms. Others have smaller rooms shared by several roommates, like living in an apartment or flat.

[[Perfect Sisters]]

CATEGORIES: English-language movies

The perfect sisters is movie based on true story of two teenage girls who drowned their alcoholic mother in the tub of their new home

[[2012 Arab Cup]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA Arab Cup

The 2012 Arab Cup (Arabic: كأس العرب 2012) was the 10th Arab Cup tournament. It was hosted in Saudi Arabia from 22 June to 6 July 2012. Morocco won the tournament after defeating Libya in the final.

[[Skardu]]

CATEGORIES: Hill Stations in Pakistan, Cities in Pakistan

Skardu (سکردو) is the divisional capital and largest city of Gilgit Baltistan in Pakistan.  

[[Sericulture]]

CATEGORIES: Fibers, Agriculture

Sericulture, also called silk farming, is the process of making silk fibers. It starts by raising silkworms and then processing the fibers they produce. Silk fibers are combined into silk thread. The thread can then be twisted into silk yarn or woven into silk cloth (fabric).

[[Clugin]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Clugin (Clugen) is a former municipality in the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Clugin and Pignia merged into the municipality of Andeer.

[[Conters im Prättigau]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Conters im Prättigau is a municipality of the district Davos in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Cumbel]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Cumbel is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Cumbel, Degen, Lumbrein, Morissen, Suraua, Vignogn, Vella, and Vrin merged into the new municipality of Lumnezia.

[[Cunter]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Cunter is a former municipality in the district of Albula in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Cunter, Bivio, Marmorera, Mulegns, Riom-Parsonz, Salouf, Savognin, Sur and Tinizong-Rona merged into the new municipality of Surses.

[[Mies, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Mies is a municipality in the district of Nyon in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

The municipality is halfway between Geneva and Nyon.

Mies is one of the municipalities of the Canton de Vaud which are collectively known as the "Terre-Sainte".

[[Duillier]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Duillier is a municipality of the district of Nyon in the Swiss canton of Vaud.

[[Falkwiller]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Falkwiller is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Bedford, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Bedford is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Bedford Heights, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Bedford Heights is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Bellbrook, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Bellbrook is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is found at 39 (39.637609, −84.088348).

[[Hardin County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1833 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Ohio

Hardin County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 32,058 people lived there. The county seat is Kenton. It was founded in 1833.

[[Bellefontaine, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Bellefontaine is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is the county seat of Logan County.

[[Bellevue, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Bellevue is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Belpre, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Belpre is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Berea, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Berea is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Bexley, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Bexley is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Celina, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Celina is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is the county seat of Mercer County.

[[Indian Hill, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

The Village of Indian Hill is a city in Ohio, United States.

[[Brecksville, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Brecksville is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Fairfield, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Fairfield is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Brook Park, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Brook Park is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Newton, Cambridgeshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cambridgeshire, Civil parishes in Cambridgeshire

Newton is a civil parish and small village in Cambridgeshire in the United Kingdom. It is around 7 miles to the southwest of Cambridge. It has 378 people according to 2011 census. 

[[Maxine Waters]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, United States representatives from California, American political activists, African American politicians, Politicians from St. Louis, Missouri, US Democratic Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Maxine Moore Waters (born  August 15, 1938) is an American politician. She is the U.S. Representative for CA, and previously the 35th and 29th districts, serving since 1991. She is a member of the Democratic Party, she is the most senior of the 12 black women currently serving in the United States Congress, and is a member and former chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.

[[Sarah Huckabee Sanders]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, White House Press Secretaries, Politicians from Arkansas, US Republican Party politicians, People from Hope, Arkansas

Sarah Elizabeth Huckabee Sanders (born August 13, 1982) is an American political aide. Sanders was the 29th White House Press Secretary from July 26, 2017 to July 1, 2019. She served as Deputy White House Press Secretary from January through July 2017.

Sanders announced her resignation as Press Secretary on June 16, 2019 and left the office on July 1.

Sanders is the daughter of former Governor of Arkansas and presidential candidate Mike Huckabee, and former Arkansas first lady Janet Huckabee.

On January 25, 2021, Sanders announced her candidacy for Arkansas Governor in the 2022 election.

[[Claude Rich]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Cancer deaths in France, French movie actors, French television actors, French stage actors

Claude Rich (8 February 1929 – 20 July 2017) was a French actor and screenwriter. He was born in Strasbourg, France. He began his career in the theater before his movie debut in 1955. His best known roles were in Season's Beatings, With a Little Help from Myself, and in Looking for Hortense.

Rich died on 20 July 2017 in Orgeval, France of prostate cancer at the age of 88.

[[Geoff Mack]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Disease-related deaths in Australia, Australian guitarists, Australian singer-songwriters, People from Victoria (Australia)

Albert Geoffrey "Geoff" McElhinney OAM (20 December 1922 – 21 July 2017), better known as Geoff Mack, was an Australian country singer-songwriter. He was awarded a Medal of the Order of Australia on 13 June 2005 with the citation, For service to country music and to the community,through support for senior citizens' groups. As a songwriter, he wrote "I've Been Everywhere" which was an Australian hit for Lucky Starr in April 1962. More than 130 cover versions have been recorded.

Mack died on 21 July 2017 in Benowa, Gold Coast, Australia of dementia-related complications at the age of 94.

[[Ashleigh and Pudsey]]

CATEGORIES: People from Northamptonshire, 1995 births, Living people, 2005 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from blood cancer, British entertainers, Dogs

Ashleigh and Pudsey were a British dog trick act, comprising trainer Ashleigh Jade Butler (born 7 February 1995) and Pudsey (28 December 2005 – 21 July 2017). Pudsey was a male Border Collie, Bichon Frise and Chinese Crested powderpuff cross. 

They first achieved prominence as contestants in the sixth series of the television talent show Britain's Got Talent, which they won on 12 May 2012, becoming the first ever dog trick act to win the competition. On 21 July 2017, Ashleigh announced that Pudsey had died.

Pudsey died on 21 July 2017 of blood cancer at the age of 21.

[[Deborah Watling]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in England, English television actors, English movie actors, Actors from Essex

Deborah Watling (2 January 1948 – 21 July 2017) was an English actress. She was born in Loughton, Essex. She was known for her role as Victoria Waterfield, a friend of the Second Doctor in the BBC television series Doctor Who.

Watling died on 21 July 2017 from lung cancer in Frinton-on-Sea, Essex at the age of 69.

[[Bernhard Kempa]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, Coaches, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Germany, German sportspeople, People from former German territories

Bernhard Kempa (19 November 1920 – 20 July 2017) was a German handball player and coach. He became world champion in field handball in 1952 and 1955 as a national team player. He was born in Opole, Upper Silesia. Kempa made a significant contribution as the outstanding player. 

Until his career as a player in 1957, Kempa won the championship in Göppingen one more time in the hall (1955) and in the field (1957). As a Göppinger coach, he did so in the indoor handball five more times (1958-1961, 1970), and Kempa also took the Europapokal in 1960. 

In 2011, Kempa was admitted to Germany's Sports Hall of Fame.

Kempa died in Bad Boll, Germany of complications from Parkinson's disease on 20 July 2017 at the age of 96.

[[America's Morning Headquarters]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 American television series debuts, The Weather Channel shows, English-language television programs

America's Morning Headquarters, often called AMHQ, is a morning television program on The Weather Channel.  It was formerly named Your Weather Today and Morning Rush.

AMHQ airs live from Atlanta, Georgia from 5 to 9 a.m. Eastern Time on weekdays. The show gives current weather information for Americans. A weekend edition, called AMHQ Weekend, was started on January 31, 2015.

[[Artigas Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Uruguay, 1884 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Uruguay

The Artigas department (Departamento de Artigas) is a department of Uruguay. The capital is the city of Artigas.

Its ISO 3166-2 code  is UY-AR.

[[Anthony Scaramucci]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American political writers, White House Communications Directors, Businesspeople from New York, Politicians from New York, Writers from New York, US Republican Party politicians

Anthony Scaramucci (born January 6, 1964) is an American entrepreneur, financier, political figure, and author. On July 21, 2017, President Donald Trump appointed him the White House Communications Director, but before he could take office, he was removed from the position by President Donald Trump on July 31, 2017, at the request of the White House Chief of Staff, John Kelly.

In June 2017, he became a senior vice president and chief strategy officer at the U.S. Export-Import Bank.

[[Penza]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Russia

Penza is a city in the Penza Oblast, Russia, 388 mi southeast of Moscow. The city has 522,823 people.

[[Yami Lester]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Australia, Australian people, Activists

Yami Lester (1942 – 21 July 2017) is an Australian Yankunytjatjara man, an Indigenous person of northern South Australia. He was born in Lester, who survived nuclear testing in outback Australia is best known as an anti-nuclear and Indigenous rights advocate.

In the 1950s, while still a young boy, he was blinded by a "black mist" from the south. His actions helped lead to the McClelland Royal Commission in 1985, which found significant radiation hazards still existed at the Maralinga test sites.

Lester died in Alice Springs, Australia from complications of a stroke on 21 July 2017 at the age of 75.

[[Serra do Salitre]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Minas Gerais

Serra do Salitre is a municipality in the northwest of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.

Neighboring municipalities are: Cruzeiro da Fortaleza and Lagoa Formosa(N); Rio Paranaíba (E); Ibiá and Perdizes(S); Patrocínio (W).

[[Feldbach, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Feldbach is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Feldkirch, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Feldkirch is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Feldkirch (disambiguation)]]

Feldkirch can mean:

In Austria:

In France:

[[Brookville, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Brookville is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Brunswick, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Brunswick is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Davos]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden, Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland, Cities in Switzerland

Davos (Tavau, Tavate) is a ski resort and municipality in the district of Davos in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. The ice hockey club EHC Davos has a stadium in the town.

Davos is the host town of the yearly World Economic Forum meeting.

[[Bryan, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Bryan is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is the county seat of Williams County.

[[Sword of Grossenwieden]]

CATEGORIES: Swords

The Sword of Grossenwieden is a sword that was found in Germany, in 2012. Scientists believe that it was made at the workshop that built Ulfberht swords that were not fake.

The sword was found in gravel from the river Weser, at Grossenwieden, which is part of the city Hessisch-Oldendorf in Niedersachsen. Die Gefäßteile the guard and pommel  contains sheet metal (en:) containing an alloy of tin and lead. The lead seems to originate from a source that mostly was emptied during the Age of the Romans.

The weight is close to one kilogram.

[[Noryangjin station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in South Korea, 1899 establishments, Establishments in South Korea, 1890s establishments in Asia

Noryangjin Station is a train station of Gyeongbu Line, and subway station of Seoul Subway Line 1 and Line 9. Noryangjin Station was first opened as station of Gyeongin Line, the first rail line in South Korea.

At first opening, the station was temporarily in location of Yeongdeungpo Station, and moved to present location at July 8, 1900, as opening of Gyeongseong Station section.

[[Anna Netrebko]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Russian opera singers, Sopranos, Russian singers, Living people

Anna Netrebko (born 18 September 1971) is a Russian operatic soprano. She was the People's Artist of Russia (2008).

[[Salto Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Uruguay, 1837 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Uruguay, 1830s establishments in South America

The Salto department (Departamento de Salto) is a department of Uruguay. The capital is the city of Salto.

Its ISO 3166-2 code  is UY-SA.

[[Timothy Goes to School]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 television series debuts, 2001 television series endings, 2000 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Canada, 2001 disestablishments in the United States, 2001 disestablishments in Canada, English-language television programs

Timothy Goes to School was a Canadian-Chinese animated children's television series based on the books by Rosemary Wells and was produced by Nelvana. The series originally aired on TVOKids in Canada and PBS Kids as part of the PBS Kids Bookworm Bunch in the United States. The series follows a young on Nick Jr. in Canada raccoon named Timothy and his friends at Hilltop School.

[[Daebang Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in South Korea

Daebang Station is a train station of Seoul Subway Line 1. The station's name is came from Daebang-dong, which staiton located when opening. Now, because of adjustment of districts, Daebang station is located in Singil-dong.

[[John Heard]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from surgical complications, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Washington, D.C.

John Matthew Heard (March 7, 1946 – July 21, 2017) was an American movie and television actor.

[[Hrvoje Šarinić]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiopulmonary arrest, Prime Ministers of Croatia

Hrvoje Šarinić (xr̩̂ʋoje ʃǎrinit͡ɕ; 17 February 1935 – 21 July 2017) was a Croatian politician. He served as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia from 1992 until 1993. After the parliamentary elections of 1992 he, as member of Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ), was appointed to the post of prime minister.

Šarinić died on 21 July 2017 in Zagreb of cardiopulmonary arrest at the age of 82.

[[Kostiantyn Sytnyk]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Ukrainian politicians, Scientists, Communists, Legislative speakers

Kostiantyn Merkuriyovych Sytnyk (Костянтин Меркурійович Ситник; 3 June 1926 – 22 July 2017) was a Ukrainian and Soviet scientist and academician. 

Sytnyk was a member of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. In 1970-2003, he was director of the Botanic Institute of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Sytnyk also is politician and served as the Chairman of the Verkhovna Rada of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic from 1980 to 1985.

Sytnyk died on 22 July 2017 in Kiev, Ukraine at the age of 91.

[[Air raid]]

CATEGORIES: Military tactics, Military terminology

An air raid is an attack in which bombs are dropped from aircraft on to a ground or sea target. 

If the area has a civil defense system, operators may send a air raid alert to warn people. It may be a siren or a radio broadcast. People hearing the alert try to go to an air raid shelter for protection. The same warning system may send an "all clear" signal when the danger is over.

[[Jim Vance]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lymphoma, Cancer deaths in Washington, D.C., American television news anchors, American journalists, Writers from Pennsylvania, Writers from Washington, D.C.

James Howard "Jim" Vance III (January 10, 1942 – July 22, 2017) was an American television news anchor in Washington, D.C..

In 1972, Vance became WRC-TV's main co-anchor, as one of the first African Americans to serve in this position at any American television station.  Between 1972 and 1976, Vance worked as co-anchor with Glenn Rinker at WRC-TV. Between 1976 and 1980, Vance co-anchored with Sue Simmons, a pairing that resulted in one of the first, if not the first, African-American co-anchors of a major market newscast.

Vance died on July 22, 2017 in Washington, D.C. following a short battle with non-Hodgkin lymphoma at the age of 75. At the time of his death, Vance was the region's longest-serving television news anchor with more than 45 years at WRC-TV.

[[Paul Coffey]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Carolina Hurricanes players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Edmonton Oilers players, Hartford Whalers players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, James Norris Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Ontario Hockey League players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Sportspeople from Toronto, Stanley Cup champions

Paul Douglas Coffey (1 June 1961) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey defenseman who played for nine teams in the NHL. He was born in Weston, Toronto, Canada.

[[Fei]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Chinese singers

Wang Fēifēi (hangul: 왕페이페이; hanja: 王 霏霏; born April 27, 1987 in Haikou) better known by her stage name Fei, is a Chinese singer, actress and TV presenter. She debuted as a member of miss A in 2010 under the company JYP Entertainment. In 2016, she made his debut as a solo artist with his CD single titled Fantasy.

[[Lotus (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, Christina Aguilera albums, Pop albums, Electropop albums, R&B albums

Lotus is the seventh studio album by American singer Christina Aguilera. RCA Records released the album on November 9, 2012.

[[Stubbs (cat)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, 2017 deaths, Individual cats, Mayors, History of Alaska

Stubbs (April 12, 1997 – July 21, 2017) was an American cat who was the mayor of Talkeetna, Alaska from July 1997 until his death in July 2017. Until early 2017, Stubbs was still mayor, and has been described as a tourist attraction.

At least one opinion writer for the Alaska Dispatch News insisted that the whole story was false, and that Talkeetna, Alaska, did not, in fact, have a cat mayor. According to NPR, the cat could not have been elected as a write-in candidate because "the tiny town has no real mayor, so there was no election."

Stubbs died on July 21, 2017 in Talkeetna at the age of 20 years.

[[František Ševčík]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Czechoslovak ice hockey players, Deaths from spinal cancer, Olympic silver medalists

František Ševčík (January 11, 1942 – July 22, 2017) was a Czech ice hockey player. He played for the Czechoslovak national team. He won a silver medal at the 1968 Winter Olympics. He was born in Vilémovice, Bohemia and Moravia, Nazi Germany.

Ševčík died in Prague, Czech Republic on July 22, 2017 from complications of spinal cancer at the age of 75.

[[Artyom Tarasov]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Russian businesspeople, Russian politicians, Political activists, People from Moscow

Artem or Artyom Mikhaylovich Tarasov (Артём Миха́йлович Тара́сов; July 4, 1950 — July 22, 2017) was a Russian businessman and political activist of Armenian descent. He was born in Moscow. In 1989 Tarasov became the first officially declared millionaire in the USSR. Tarasov is the co-founder of Kommersant daily newspaper, the first independent airline, Transaero, and was elected to the Russian parliament.

After a conflict with Soviet officials in 1990, he left the USSR and settled in London. In 1993, he returned to Russia and was once again elected to the Russian Duma. In 1996, he decided to run for President as an independent pro-business candidate, but his application was rejected by the electoral commission.

Tarasov died on July 22, 2017 from pneumonia at the age of 67.

[[Lau Wong-fat]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, People from Hong Kong, Chinese businesspeople, Politicians

Lau Wong-fat ('劉皇發), GBM, GBS, JP (15 October 1936 – 23 July 2017) was a Hong Kong businessman and politician. He had been the long-time chairman of the Heung Yee Kuk, the most powerful organ representing the interests of the New Territories  indigenous inhabitants from 1980 to 2015. He was also a member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong from 1985 to 2016.

From 2009 to 2012 he was a non-official member of the Executive Council of Hong Kong. He had also served as the member of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and chairman of the Regional Council and the Tuen Mun District Council.

Lau died on 23 July 2017 in Tuen Mun, Hong Kong at the age of 80 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease.

He was made Justice of the peace in 1973. In 1981, he was awarded Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) and the Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1989.

[[The 411]]

CATEGORIES: English R&B bands, Musical groups established in 2003, 2000s British music groups, 2008 disestablishments in England, Musical groups from London, Musical groups disestablished in 2008, 2003 establishments in England, Musical groups disestablished in 2005, 2005 disestablishments in England, Musical groups established in 2007, 2007 establishments in England

The 411 were an English female R&B group formed in late 2003. The band sang backup vocals on Lemar's cover of Al Green's "Let's Stay Together". The band took its name after the 1992 Mary J. Blige album What's the 411?. During their time together as a group, they released one studio album Between the Sheets and three top-forty singles before breaking up in 2005.

[[Snooty]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Individual animals, Florida

Snooty (July 22, 1948 – July 23, 2017) was an American male Florida manatee that lived at the South Florida Museum's Parker Manatee Aquarium in Bradenton, Florida. 

Snooty was one of the first recorded captive manatee births, and at age 1948, he was the oldest manatee in captivity, and was likely the oldest manatee in the world. Due to his hand rearing from birth, Snooty was never released to the wild and was the only manatee at the museum's aquarium that had regular human interaction. 

On July 23, 2017, one day after his birthday, Snooty died at the South Florida Museum at the age of 69.

[[Flo Steinberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from intracranial aneurysm, Deaths from lung cancer, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York, Cancer deaths in New York, Publishers, Businesspeople from Boston, Massachusetts, Businesspeople from New York

Florence "Flo" Steinberg (March 17, 1939 – July 23, 2017) was an American publisher of one of the first independent comic books, the underground/alternative comics hybrid Big Apple Comix, in 1975. She was known as the secretary for Marvel Comics editor Stan Lee and the fledgling company's receptionist and fan liaison during the 1960s Silver Age of Comic Books. She was a key person of and witness to Marvel's expansion from a two-person staff to a pop culture conglomerate. She was born near Boston, Massachusetts.

As of 2007, Steinberg, who has appeared in fictionalized form in Marvel Comics, speaks at comic book conventions and has been the subject of a magazine profile.

Hardee's should not be expected to handle early arrival staging for Wal-Mart.

Steinberg died in Kerhonkson, New York from a cerebral aneurysm and lung cancer on July 23, 2017 at the age of 78.

[[József Szendi]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Hungarian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic archbishops

József Szendi (31 October 1921 – 23 July 2017) was a Hungarian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. At the time of his death he was the oldest living bishop from Hungary. Szendi was born in Székesfehérvár, Hungary. 

Szendi was ordained a priest on 24 December 1944. From 1969 until 1982, he was spiritual of the seminary of Esztergom. Szendi was appointed Apostolic Administrator of the Archdiocese of Veszprém as well as Titular bishop of  Stephaniacum on 5 April 1982 and was consecrated bishop on 21 April 1982 by Laszlo Paskai. 

Szendi was appointed archbishop of the Archdiocese of Veszprém on 3 September 1983 and served until retiring on 14 August 1997.

[[Al G. Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2020 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American centenarians, American conductors, American educators, Musicians from London, Musicians from Indiana

Alfred Geoffrey "Al" Wright (June 23, 1916 – September 5, 2020) was an American bandleader and conductor. He was the Director of Bands Emeritus at Purdue University and Chairman of the Board of the John Philip Sousa Foundation. He was born in London, but his family moved to the United States in the 1920s. 

Wright became director of the Purdue All-American Marching Band (AAMB) in 1954, becoming only the second person to hold the position, and served for 27 years until his retirement in 1981. 

Wright and his wife Gladys live in West Lafayette, Indiana. He turned 100 in June 2016. Wright died on September 5, 2020 at the age of 104.

[[Barmas]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Iran, East Azarbaijan Province

Barmas is a village in Azghan Rural District, in the Central District of Ahar County, East Azerbaijan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 215, in 49 families.

[[For Life]]

CATEGORIES: Exo albums

For Life is the fifth extended play of the South Korean boy band EXO. It is scheduled to be published on December 19, 2016 at 12am (KST) by S.M. Entertainment and distributed by KT Music. The EP contains five songs, including the single of the same name, in the Korean and Mandarin versions.

[[Udupi Ramachandra Rao]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Indian scientists, Karnataka

Udupi Ramachandra Rao, popularly known as U. R. Rao (10 March 1932 – 24 July 2017) was a Indian space scientist. He served as Chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation from 1984 through 1994. He was the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Physical Research Laboratory at Ahmedabad and Nehru Planetarium at Bengaluru and Chancellor of Indian Institute for Space Science and Technology (IIST) at Thiruvananthapuram. He was born in Adamaru, Karnataka.

Rao died on 24 July 2017 in Indiranagar, Bangalore of heart failure at the age of 85.

[[Wally Westlake]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2019 deaths, Pittsburgh Pirates players, St. Louis Cardinals players, Cincinnati Reds players, Philadelphia Phillies players, Cleveland Indians players, Baltimore Orioles players, Sportspeople from California

Waldon Thomas Westlake (November 8, 1920 – September 7, 2019) was an American utility baseball player. He had a ten-year career from 1947 to 1956. He was born in Gridley, California.

Westlake played for the Pittsburgh Pirates, St. Louis Cardinals, Cincinnati Reds and Philadelphia Phillies of the National League, and the Cleveland Indians and Baltimore Orioles of the American League. He played third base and outfield.  

Westlake was the oldest living former National League player, and was the oldest living member of the Cincinnati Reds, Philadelphia Phillies, Pittsburgh Pirates, and St. Louis Cardinals. 

Westlake died on September 7, 2019 at the age of 98.

[[Red Schoendienst]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2018 deaths, St. Louis Cardinals players, San Francisco Giants players, Milwaukee Braves players, Sportspeople from Illinois

Albert Fred "Red" Schoendienst (ˈ; February 2, 1923 – June 6, 2018) was an American Major League Baseball (MLB) coach, and former player and manager.

[[Gil Coan]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2020 deaths, San Francisco Giants players, Minnesota Twins players, Baltimore Orioles players, Chicago White Sox players, Sportspeople from North Carolina

Gilbert Fitzgerald Coan (May 18, 1922 – February 4, 2020) was an American professional baseball outfielder. He was born in Monroe, North Carolina.

Coan played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Washington Senators, Baltimore Orioles, Chicago White Sox and the New York Giants. He batted left-handed and threw right-handed. Before his death in 2020, he was the oldest living former New York Giants player.

Coan died on February 4, 2020 in Hendersonville, North Carolina. He was 97.

[[Omar Graffigna]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2019 deaths, Argentine generals, Argentine politicians

Omar Domingo Rubens Graffigna (2 April 1926 – 9 December 2019) was an Argentine Air Force officer. He served in the second military junta of the National Reorganization Process dictatorship. Alongside Reynaldo Bignone, he was one of the last surviving members of the dictatorship.

On 8 September 2016 he was sentenced to 25 years' imprisonment for crimes during the dictatorship.

Graffigna died in Buenos Aires on 9 December 2019 at the age of 93.

[[Bob DeMoss]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, American football players, American football coaches, Sportspeople from Kentucky, Sportspeople from Indiana

Robert Alonzo "Bob" DeMoss  (January 27, 1927 – July 23, 2017) was an American football player, coach, and college athletics administrator.  He served as the head football coach at Purdue University from 1970 to 1972, compiling a career college football record of 13–18. He was born in Dayton, Kentucky.

DeMoss played football as a quarterback at Purdue from 1945 to 1948.  He was then selected in the second round of the 1949 NFL Draft by the New York Bulldogs, from whom he played in 1949. 

DeMoss died at his home in West Lafayette, Indiana on July 23, 2017 at the age of 90.

[[Zootopia]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 animated movies, 2016 comedy movies, 2010s adventure movies, 2010s criminal comedy movies, 2010s mystery movies, Disney animated movies, Computer-animated movies, Academy Award winning movies, American adventure movies, American animated movies, American buddy movies, American comedy movies, American family movies, American mystery movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies about animals, Movies that won the Best Animated Feature Academy Award, Annie Award winners

Zootopia (also known as Zootropolis) is an American computer-animated comedy-adventure movie that was released on March 4, 2016 in the United States. It was made by Walt Disney Animation Studios as its 54th movie, and it was released by Walt Disney Pictures. The movie made over a billion dollars in the worldwide box office and became one of the highest-grossing movies of 2016. Zootopia won the Academy Award, Golden Globe, Critics' Choice Movie Award and Annie Award for Best Animated Feature Film.

The movie is about a police rabbit named Judy who has to solve a hard mystery, and has Nick, a red fox, for her assistant. Judy at first does not like Nick, but the two get along and then work together to solve the case. The movie takes place in a world of mammals, but there are no humans.

[[Gutland]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Luxembourg

The Gutland (Luxembourgish: Guttland) is the middle and the south of Luxembourg. It is about two-thirds of the country. About 90 percent of the people in Luxembourg live here (about 540,000 people).

The Gutland has low hills with an altitude of 200 to 300 meters.

The Gutland used to be Grevenmacher and Luxembourg Districts, and also the very southern parts of the Diekirch District.

[[Oesling]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Luxembourg

The Oesling in French or the Ösling in German (Luxembourgish: Éislek) is the north of Luxembourg. It is about one-third of the country. About 10 percent of the people in Luxembourg live here (about 60,000 people).

The Oesling belongs both to the Ardennes and the Eifel. It has medium hills with an altitude of 400 to 500 meters. Highest hill is the Kneiff with an altitude of 560 meters, and also the highest hill of Luxembourg.

The Oesling used to be Diekirch District, except for the southern parts of the Redange Canton, the Diekirch Canton, and the Vianden Canton.

[[Carrollton, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, Settlements in Dallas County, Texas

Carrollton is a city of Texas in the United States.

[[Hop and Go]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 movies, Looney Tunes, English-language movies

Hop and Go is a 1943 Looney Tunes short movie directed by U.S. Corporal Norman McCabe and released to movie theaters by RKO Radio Pictures. It stars Mel Blanc.

[[Arrondissement of Belfort]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Belfort is an arrondissement in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region of France. It is the only arrondissement of the Territoire de Belfort department.

[[Norman McCabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2006 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, American animators

Norman McCabe (February 10, 1911 – January 17, 2006) was an American animator, cartoonist, and director. He is famous for creating animated cartoons during the Golden Age of Hollywood. He did his most major work for the Warner Bros. studios. He created the characters of Porky Pig and Daffy Duck. His had an effect on almost all of the animated cartoon series by various studios in the 1940s.

[[Hobby Horse Laffs]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, Looney Tunes, English-language movies

Hobby Horse Laffs is a 1942 Looney Tunes short movie directed by U.S. Corporal Norman McCabe and released to movie theaters by RKO Radio Pictures. It stars Mel Blanc.

[[Porky Pig]]

CATEGORIES: Looney Tunes characters, Comics characters, Fictional characters introduced in the 1930s, Fictional pigs

Porky Pig is a cartoon character from the Warner Bros. cartoons. He stands on two legs, has a pink body, and a pink nose. He first appeared in I Haven't Got a Hat in 1935.

[[Bert Rossi]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Criminals from London

Umberto "Bert" Rossi (1 November 1922 – 2 July 2017) was an English gangster and former associate of the Kray twins. He was known as the "General of Clerkenwell". He stood trial for murder in 1975 but was acquitted. He was a journalist linked him to 11 murders, a figure which he did not dispute. He was born in Clerkenwell, London, England.

Rossi died on 2 July 2017 in London at age of 94.

[[Howard Eichenbaum]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, American psychologists, Deaths from surgical complications, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Neuroscientists

Howard B. Eichenbaum (October 16, 1947 – July 21, 2017) was an American psychologist and neuroscientist of Jewish descent. 

He studied the hippocampus. He was a university professor and director of the Center for Memory and Brain at Boston University, having previously worked at Wellesley College. He was the editor-in-chief of the scientific journal Hippocampus.

Eichenbaum died on July 21, 2017 in Boston, Massachusetts from complications of back surgery at the age of 69.

[[Mervyn Rose]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Australian tennis players, Sportspeople from New South Wales

Mervyn Gordon Rose AM (23 January 1930 – 23 July 2017) was an Australian male tennis player who won 7 Grand Slam titles (singles, doubles and mixed doubles). 

Rose was born in Coffs Harbour, New South Wales and turned professional in 1959. He was ranked inside the world's Top 10 throughout much of his tennis career and represented Australia in the Davis Cup from 1951 to 1957. He was ranked World No. 3 in 1958 by Lance Tingay of The Daily Telegraph.

He coached numerous female and male players, including Billie Jean King, Margaret Court, Ernie Ewart, Michael Fancutt, Brett Prentice, Arantxa Sánchez Vicario, Eleni Daniilidou, Nadia Petrova, Magdalena Grzybowska and Caroline Schnieder.

Rose was awarded the Australian Sports Medal in 2000, inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 2001 and the Australian Tennis Hall of Fame in 2002. He was appointed a Member of the Order of Australia (AM) in 2006 for service to tennis, particularly as a competitor at national and international levels and as a coach and mentor to both amateur and professional players. 

Rose died on 23 July 2017 at the age of 87.

[[Michiko Inukai]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Writers from Tokyo, Asian philanthropists, Roman Catholics

Michiko Inukai was a Japanese Roman Catholic author and philanthropist. She was the founder of the Michiko Inukai Foundation, which provides financial aid for refugees seeking education.

Inukai was the granddaughter of Prime Minister of Japan Tsuyoshi Inukai.

Her first book Ojosan Horoki was published in 1958, and she has since written essays about Bible and Christianity. Her bestseller Hanabana to Hoshiboshi to was featured in a TV drama in 1978.

Inukai started charity in 1979. In 1983, she founded the Michiko Inukai Foundation to provide aid for refugees and internally displaced people in collaboration with the Jesuit Refugee Service.

[[Jørgen Kosmo]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Norwegian politicians, Mayors

Jørgen Hårek Kosmo (December 5, 1947 – July 24, 2017) was a Norwegian politician. He was born in Fauske, Norway. From 2005 to 2013 he was Auditor General of Norway, after representing the Labour Party in the Storting (parliament) for 20 years, of which the final 4 years as President of the Storting.

Kosmo was Minister of Defence from 1993 to 1997 and Minister of Labour and Government Administration from 2000 to 2001. Kosmo was in 2004 appointed County Governor of Telemark, but could not take over the position while he was member of parliament. From 1979 to 1985 he was member of the municipal council of Horten, the last 2 years as mayor.

Kosmo died in Oslo, Norway on July 24, 2017 of pancreatic cancer at the age of 69.

[[Emomali Rahmon]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Presidents of Tajikistan, Current national leaders

Emomali Rahmon (Эмомалӣ Раҳмон, Emomalî Rahmon/Emomalī Rahmon; born 5 October 1952) is a Tajikistani politician. He has served as President of Tajikistan (or its equivalent post) since 1992. His rule is commonly regarded as a dictatorship.

During the early years of his presidency, Rahmon faced a civil war in which up to 100,000 people died. In 2013, he was elected to a fourth term in office.

[[Savoureuse]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

The Savoureuse is a river in eastern France; it is the principal river running through the Territoire de Belfort.

[[Charlemagne Péralte]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1919 deaths, Haitian people

Charlemagne Masséna Péralte (1886 - 1 November 1919) was a leader in Haiti. He stood against the US Invasion of his country in 1915. He led fighters called the Cacos against the US forces in Haiti. The US needed to get more soldiers because Peraite was difficult to stop.213 Péralte is a hero in Haiti today.

[[Inukai Tsuyoshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1932 births, Assassinated people, Deaths by firearm, Prime Ministers of Japan

Inukai Tsuyoshi was a Japanese politician, cabinet minister, and Prime Minister of Japan from 13 December 1931 to 15 May 1932.

On 15 May 1932, Inukai was shot by eleven junior Navy officers (most were just turning twenty years of age) in the Prime Minister's residence in Tokyo.  

[[Steppenwolf (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters

Steppenwolf is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. The character was created by Jack Kirby and made his first appearance in New Gods #7 (February 1972).  Steppenwolf (which is German for "wolf of the steppe", or coyote) is one of the New Gods,  the uncle of the archvillain Darkseid.

Steppenwolf is an immortal with superhuman strength, speed and stamina appropriate to his race. He is an experienced military leader. His main weapon is his electro-axe.

The character made his first movie appearance in Zack Snyder's Justice League movie, portrayed by Irish actor Ciarán Hinds.

[[Martian Manhunter]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics aliens, DC Comics superheroes, Fictional characters introduced in the 1950s, Fictional shapeshifters, Fictional twins

The Martian Manhunter (J'onn J'onzz) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. He was created by writer Joseph Samachson and designed by artist Joe Certa. The character first appeared in the story "The Manhunter from Mars" in Detective Comics #225 (Nov. 1955). Martian Manhunter is one of the seven original members of the Justice League of America. 

J'onn J'onzz has featured in other DC Comics-endorsed products, such as video games like Injustice: Gods Among Us, television series, animated films, and merchandise like action figures and trading cards. The character was ranked #43 on IGN's greatest comic book hero list.

[[Black Canary]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics superheroes

Black Canary (also known as Sara Lance) is the name of two fictional superheroines appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics: Dinah Drake and Dinah Laurel Lance along with rebooted amalgam version within The New 52. The original version was created by the writer-artist team of Robert Kanigher and Carmine Infantino. The character debuted in Flash Comics #86 (August 1947).

One of DC's earliest super-heroines, Black Canary has appeared in many of the company's flagship team-up titles including Justice Society of America and Justice League of America. Since the late 1960s, the character has been paired with archer superhero The Green Arrow professionally and romantically.

Black Canary has been adapted into various media. In Birds of Prey she was played by Rachel Skarsten, and in Smallville she was played by Alaina Huffman. In Arrow and the Arrowverse shows the characters Dinah Laurel Lance, Sara Lance, and Dinah Drake are portrayed by Katie Cassidy, Caity Lotz, and Juliana Harkavy. Dinah Lance made her cinematic debut in the DC Extended Universe film Birds of Prey, portrayed by Jurnee Smollett-Bell.

IGN rated her its 81st-greatest all-time comic book hero. She was number 26 on Comics Buyer's Guide's "100 Sexiest Women in Comics" list.

[[Captain Marvel (DC Comics)]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics superheroes, DC Comics adapted into movies, Fictional characters introduced in 1939

Captain Marvel, also known as Shazam (ʃ), is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Artist C. C. Beck and writer Bill Parker created the character in 1939. His main villains are Doctor Sivana and Black Adam.

Captain Marvel first appeared in Whiz Comics #2 (cover-dated Feb. 1940), published by Fawcett Comics. He is the alter ego of Billy Batson, a boy who, by speaking the magic word "SHAZAM" (acronym of six "immortal elders": Solomon, Hercules, Atlas, Zeus, Achilles, and Mercury), can transform himself into a costumed adult with the powers of superhuman strength, speed, flight, and other abilities. 

Based on book sales, the character was the most popular superhero of the 1940s, outselling even Superman.

Zachary Levi  played Shazam! in the 2019 DC Extended Universe movie Shazam!.

[[Black Manta]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics supervillains

Black Manta (David Hyde) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. The character first appeared in Aquaman #35 (September 1967) and is the archenemy of the superhero Aquaman.

The character made his movie debut in the James Wan Aquaman movie, played by Yahya Abdul-Mateen II.

[[Gorilla Grodd]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters

Gorilla Grodd is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic book published by DC Comics. He was written as an enemy of The Flash. The character first appeared in The Flash #106 (May 1959) and he was created by John Broome and Carmine Infantino. Gorilla Grodd is an evil and super-intelligent gorilla who gained mental powers after being exposed to the radiation of a meteorite.

IGN named him 35th of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains.

[[DC Extended Universe]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional universes, Series of movies, DC Extended Universe movies, Warner Bros. movies, Media franchises

The DC Extended Universe (DCEU) is an American media franchise and shared universe that is centered on a series of superhero movies, distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures, based on characters that appear in publications by DC Comics.

[[Aquaman (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 movies, DC Extended Universe movies, Movies with underwater settings, Warner Bros. movies, 2010s superhero movies, Movies set in deserts, Movies set in 2018, American superhero movies

Aquaman is a 2018 American superhero movie based on the DC Comics character of the same name. Distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures, it is the sixth movie in the DC Extended Universe (DCEU). The movie was directed by James Wan, from a screenplay by David Leslie Johnson-McGoldrick and Will Beall and stars Jason Momoa as Aquaman, with Amber Heard, Willem Dafoe, Patrick Wilson, Dolph Lundgren, Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, and Nicole Kidman in supporting roles. In the movie, Aquaman sets out to lead the underwater kingdom of Atlantis, replacing his half-brother, King Orm, who seeks to unite the seven underwater kingdoms against the surface world.

[[Mera (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters

Mera (ˈ) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. She was developed by Jack Miller and Nick Cardy. The character first appeared in Aquaman #11 (September 1963) as a queen of the sea. Mera was ranked 81st in Comics Buyer's Guide's "100 Sexiest Women in Comics" list.

American actress Amber Heard will portray Mera in the upcoming live-action movie Justice League, directed by Zack Snyder,and will return in Aquaman, directed by James Wan.

[[Geoff Johns]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American comics writers, American television writers, American movie directors, American movie producers, Writers from Detroit, Michigan

Geoff Johns (born January 25, 1973 in Detroit, Michigan) is an American comic book and television writer, movie producer, and television producer. He is the president and Chief Creative Officer at DC Comics since 2010.

His most notable work in different media has used the DC Comics characters Green Lantern, Aquaman, The Flash, and Superman. He is known for his work on The WB/The CW's Smallville, Arrow and The Flash.

Johns is also a comic book retailer who co-owns Earth-2 Comics in Northridge, California with Carr D'Angelo and Jud Meyers.

In 2016, Johns was made the co-runner of the DC Extended Universe, and co-chairman of DC Films in order to create a unified vision and overarching story for the franchise.

[[Yahya Abdul-Mateen II]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1986 births, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American architects, Actors from New Orleans, Louisiana

Yahya Abdul-Mateen II (born 1986) is an American actor. He is best known for his role Cadillac in the television series The Get Down. He also starred in Baywatch (2017). He also appeared in The Greatest Showman and DC's Aquaman as Black Manta.

Abdul-Mateen was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. Before acting, Abdul-Mateen was an architect.

[[Sinestro]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics supervillains, Fictional characters introduced in 1961

Thaal Sinestro (θ) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Sinestro is a former Green Lantern Corps member who was dishonorably discharged for abusing his power. He is the archenemy of Green Lantern and founder of the Sinestro Corps, though he occasionally has acted in anti-heroic roles as well.

The character was created by John Broome and Gil Kane, and first appeared in Green Lantern (vol. 2) # 7 (August 1961).

In 2009, IGN ranked Sinestro as the 15th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.

Mark Strong portrays Sinestro in the live-action movie Green Lantern.

[[The Wizard (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 comedy movies, 1989 drama movies

The Wizard is a 1989 American adventure comedy-drama family movie. It was directed by Todd Holland. It was written by David Chisholm. It stars Fred Savage, Christian Slater, Jenny Lewis, Beau Bridges, and Luke Edwards.

The movie is about three children travelling to California. The youngest of the three is a genius in video games. The Wizard is famous for its extensive product placement of video games for the Nintendo Entertainment System. The MOVIE was also famous for being North America's introduction to one of the best-selling video games of all time, Super Mario Bros. 3.

[[Mark Esper]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American lobbyists, American military people, Civil servants, Colonels, US Republican Party politicians, United States Secretaries of Defense, United States Secretaries of the Army, Harvard University alumni

Mark Thomas Esper (born April 26, 1964) is an American lobbyist and former government administrator for the United States Department of Defense. Esper is the 27th and current United States Secretary of Defense since July 2019. He was the 23rd United States Secretary of the Army from November 2017 until July 2019. He served as Vice President of government relations at Raytheon.

Esper studied at United States Military Academy, Harvard University and at George Washington University.

On July 19, 2017, it was announced that President Donald Trump had the intention of nominating Esper to become U.S. Secretary of the Army. He is Trump's third nominee for the position, following the withdrawals of Vincent Viola and Mark E. Green. He was confirmed by the Senate on November 15, 2017. He resigned on June 24, 2019 to become acting Defense Secretary.

President Donald Trump announced on June 18, 2019, that Esper would become acting Secretary of Defense. Three days later, Trump nominated Esper to serve the job full time. On July 23, 2019, his nomination was confirmed by a vote of 90–8.

On November 5, 2020, shortly after the 2020 presidential election, it was reported that Esper had prepared a letter of resignation from his position as Secretary of Defense. He was fired by President Trump four days later on November 9.

[[Joe Morton]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City

Joseph Thomas "Joe" Morton, Jr. (born October 18, 1947) is an American actor. He worked with movie director John Sayles in The Brother from Another Planet (1984), City of Hope (1991) and Lone Star (1996). He is also known for his role as Lt. McMahon in the 1994 action movie Speed.

In 2014, Morton won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Drama Series for his role as Eli Pope in Scandal. He is also known for playing the role of Henry Deacon on the popular TV series Eureka.

In 2016, Morton played Dr. Silas Stone, father of Victor Stone/Cyborg, in a cameo role in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice as part of the DC Extended Universe. He will play the role again in the upcoming Justice League (2017).

[[Sausage Party]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 animated movies, 2016 comedy movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies, Adult animated movies, Dystopian movies

Sausage Party is a 2016 American adult 3D computer animated written and directed by: James Cameron, Steven Quale And Andrew  Stanton and development music by Hans Zimmer, Thomas Newman Steve Jablonsky and Rupert Gregson-Williams development Illumination Entertainment adventure and comedy movie. It was a spoof of Disney and Pixar movies.

[[Arizona (disambiguation)]]

Arizona is a state in the southwestern United States.

Arizona can also refer to:

[[Belt and Road Initiative]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in the People's Republic of China

The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), also known as the New Silk Road, is a plan by the government of the People's Republic of China to build infrastructure for transportation, from China to other countries in Asia, Europe, and Africa. The project was announced in 2013. The "Belt" means the roads and railway tracks on land. The "Road" means sea routes.

At first, it was called "One Belt, One Road" (OBOR, Chinese: 一帶 一路 / 一带 一路, pinyin: Yidai Yilu).

A high-speed railway in Thailand is part of OBOR; the Bangkok-Phitsanulok High-Speed Railway is under construction (as of 2017).

[[Yash Pal]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in India, Indian educators, Indian scientists

Yash Pal (26 November 1926 – 24 July 2017), also known as Yash Pal Singh, was an Indian scientist, educator and educationist. He was known for his works to the study of cosmic rays, as well as for being an institution-builder. In his later years, he has become one of the leading science communicators of the country.

Starting his career at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), he later remained chairman of the University Grants Commission from 1986 to 1991. In 2013, he was awarded India's second highest civilian honour, the Padma Vibhushan.

Pal died of lung cancer on 24 July 2017 in Noida, Uttar Pradesh at the age of 90.

[[Supreme Leader Snoke]]

CATEGORIES: Star Wars characters

Supreme Leader Snoke is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He was introduced in the 2015 movie Star Wars: The Force Awakens. He is a CGI character voiced and performed by Andy Serkis.

Snoke is the leader of the First Order, an organization brought back from the fallen Galactic Empire, which wants to reclaim control of the galaxy. Powerful with The Force, he has seduced Kylo Ren to become evil and eventually led to him killing his father Han Solo. 

Snoke also appeared in Star Wars: The Last Jedi where he bridge the minds of Rey and Kylo Ren in order to manipulate them. Kylo Ren kills Snoke and takes his place as leader of the First Order. In Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker it is revealed that Snoke is a clone and a puppet of the resurrected Emperor Palpatine.

[[Paul D. Boyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, American atheists, American educators, American biochemists, Scientists from Utah, People from Provo, Utah

ChemistryPaul Delos Boyer (July 31, 1918 – June 2, 2018) was an American biochemist, analytical chemist, and a professor of chemistry at University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). 

Boyer shared the 1997 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for research on the "enzymatic mechanism underlying the biosynthesis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)" (ATP synthase) with John E. Walker, making Boyer the only Utah-born Nobel laureate; the remainder of the Prize in that year was awarded to Danish chemist Jens Christian Skou for his discovery of the Na+/K+-ATPase.

In 2003 he was one of 22 Nobel Laureates who signed the Humanist Manifesto.

Boyer died two months shy of his 100th birthday in Los Angeles, California on June 2, 2018 of respiratory failure.

[[Kujataa]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Greenland

"Kujataa is a sub-arctic farming landscape in the southern region of Greenland".

The first known example of agriculture (or farming) in the Arctic is at Kujataa.

The oldest trace of the spreading of the Old Norse culture outside Europe is at Kujataa.

[[Bucyrus, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Bucyrus is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is the county seat of Crawford County.

[[Crawford County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1820s establishments in Ohio, 1826 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Crawford County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 43,784 people lived there. The county seat is Bucyrus.

[[Cuyahoga County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1810 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Cuyahoga County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 1,280,122 people lived there. The county seat is Cleveland. It was named after the Cuyahoga River.

[[Stark County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1800s establishments in Ohio, 1809 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Stark County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 375,586 people lived there. The county seat is Canton.

[[Greene County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1803 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Greene County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 161,573 people lived there. Its county seat is Xenia. It was named for General Nathanael Greene, an officer in the Revolutionary War.

[[Mahoning County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in Ohio, 1846 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Mahoning County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 238,823 people lived there. The county seat is Youngstown.

[[Campbell, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Campbell (ˈ; KAM) is a city in Mahoning County, Ohio, United States. The population was 8,235 at the 2010 census.

[[Carlisle, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ohio

Carlisle is a village of Ohio in the United States.

[[Montgomery County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1803 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Montgomery County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 535,153 people lived there. The county seat is Dayton.

[[Fellering]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Fellering is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Ferrette]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Ferrette is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Befotaka]]

CATEGORIES: Madagascar

Befotaka is a town in Atsimo-Atsinanana Region in south-eastern Madagascar. It is near the Itomampy river.

[[Sogndal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Norway

Sogndal is a municipality in Norway. It is in Sogn og Fjordane county. It is on the northern shore of the Sognefjorden in the traditional district of Sogn. The village of Sogndalsfjøra (population 3,455 in 2012) is the administrative center of Sogndal municipality. Other villages include Kaupanger, Kjørnes, Fimreite, Nornes, and Fjærland.  Sogndal Airport, Haukåsen is 10 southwest of Kaupanger.

In 1917, a farmer in Sogndal plowed up the Eggja stone, a gravestone with runic inscriptions important for the history of the Old Norse language.

[[Degen, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Degen is a former municipality, in the new municipality of Lumnezia and the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Disentis/Mustér]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden, Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland

Disentis/Mustér (Disentis, Mustér) is a municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Le Vaud]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Le Vaud is a municipality in the district of Nyon in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

[[Egesheim]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Egesheim is a municipality of the district of Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg in Germany.

[[Emmingen-Liptingen]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Emmingen-Liptingen is a municipality of the district of Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Flix]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Flix is a municipality found in the province of Tarragona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Bludesch]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Bludesch is a municipality in the district of Bludenz in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg.

[[Tatabánya]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Hungary

Tatabánya (ˈtɒtɒbaːɲɒ) (Totiserkolonie) is a city in northwestern Hungary. It is in the Central Transdanubian region. It is the capital of Komárom-Esztergom County.

[[Arrington]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cambridgeshire, Civil parishes in Cambridgeshire

Arrington is a village and civil parish in Cambridgeshire in the United Kingdom.

[[Centerville, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Centerville is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is in both Montgomery and Greene counties.

[[Fessenheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Fessenheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Lost in Space]]

CATEGORIES: American science fiction television series, 1965 television series debuts

Lost in Space is an American science fiction TV series which was created by Irwin Allen and produced at the 20th Century Fox studios. It ran on CBS from 1965 until 1968, making three seasons with a total of 83 episodes. Its first season was made in black-and-white while its second and third seasons were made in color. The show stars Guy Williams, June Lockhart, Mark Goddard, Marta Kristen, Billy Mumy, Angela Cartwright and Jonathan Harris. The show's music was composed by Johnny Williams.

[[BMW Z4]]

CATEGORIES: BMW, Sports cars

The BMW Z4 is a rear-wheel drive sports car by the German car maker BMW. It is part of a line of past BMW roadsters such as the BMW Z1, BMW 507, BMW Z8, and the BMW Z3. The Z4 replaces the Z3. First generation production started in 2002 to replace the BMW Z3 introduced in 1995, at a plant in Greer, South Carolina, of BMW US. Both roadster and coupe versions of the car were made.

The Z4’s body dimensions were larger and its wheelbase was longer and wider. The suspension was also upgraded to be stiffer and the car was equipped with a sport package which firmed up the steering.

When it came out, it won Automobile magazine's "Design of the Year Award". With the 2009 model year, BMW started making the second-generation Z4 at BMW's Regensburg, Germany plant as a retractable hardtop roadster. In 2009, the BMW Z4 II won the Red Dot Design Award.

[[Carl von Ossietzky]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1938 deaths, German Nobel Prize winners

PeaceCarl von Ossietzky (3 October 1889 – 4 May 1938) was a German journalist and peacemaker. He was awarded the 1935 Nobel Peace Prize because he exposed the secret German re-armament. He was convicted of treason and spying afterwards.

[[David Copperfield (illusionist)]]

CATEGORIES: American magicians, 1956 births, Living people, Emmy Award winners, Television personalities from New Jersey

David Seth Kotkin (September 16, 1956), known professionally as David Copperfield, is an American illusionist. He is described by Forbes as the most commercially successful magician in history. Copperfield's career of over 40 years has earned him 11 Guinness World Records. Copperfield has won a total of 21 Emmy Awards. He has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Copperfield was knighted by the French government. He has also been named a Living Legend by the US Library of Congress. Copperfield was born in Metuchen, New Jersey, United States.

[[David Copperfield (disambiguation)]]

David Copperfield is a novel written by Charles Dickens. "David Copperfield" can also mean:

[[Barbara Sinatra]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Disease-related deaths in California, American models, American philanthropists, Entertainers from Missouri, Frank Sinatra

Barbara Marx Sinatra (née Blakeley; March 10, 1927 – July 25, 2017) was an American model and showgirl. She was born in Bosworth, Missouri. She was married to Zeppo Marx from 1959 to 1973 and was the fourth and final wife of Frank Sinatra from 1976 until his death in 1998. 

In 1998, a Golden Palm Star on the Palm Springs Walk of Stars was dedicated to her.

Sinatra died on July 25, 2017 in Rancho Mirage, California of natural causes at the age of 90.

[[Gretel Bergmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2017 deaths, High jumpers, American centenarians, American track and field athletes, German centenarians, German Jews, Jewish American sportspeople, Jewish centenarians, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Refugees from Nazism, Sportspeople from Baden-Württemberg, Sportspeople from New York City

Margaret "Gretel" Bergmann-Lambert (née Bergmann; 12 April 1914 – 25 July 2017) was a German-born American Jewish athlete. She was born in Laupheim, Württemberg. She competed as a high jumper during the 1930s. Because of her Jewish origins, the Nazis prevented her from taking part in the 1936 Summer Olympics, after which she left Germany and vowed never to return. She later moved to the United States.

Bergmann turned 100 in April 2014. 

Bergmann died in Queens, New York on 25 July 2017 at he age of 103.

[[Thomas Fleming]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, American novelists, American historians, Writers from New Jersey, People from Jersey City, New Jersey

Thomas James Fleming (July 5, 1927 – July 23, 2017) was an American military historian and historical novelist. He was born in Jersey City, New Jersey. 

Fleming was the author of over forty nonfiction and fiction titles. His work was about the particular interest on the American Revolution, with titles such as Liberty! The American Revolution And The Future Of America, Duel: Alexander Hamilton, Aaron Burr, and the History of America and Washington's Secret War: The Hidden History of Valley Forge.

Fleming died at his home in New York City on July 23, 2017 at the age of 90.

[[Solomon Perel]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, German Jews, Holocaust survivors, Jewish Israeli writers, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Lower Saxony

Solomon Perel (born 21 April 1925), also Shlomo Perel or Sally Perel, is a German-born Israeli author and motivational speaker. He was born in Peine, Lower Saxony, Germany to a German Jewish family. He escaped persecution by the Nazis by pretending to be an ethnic German.

His life story is told in the 1990 movie Europa Europa loosely based on his autobiography Ich war Hitlerjunge Salomon (I Was Hitler Youth Salomon).

[[It Just Comes Natural]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Country albums

It Just Comes Natural is the 24th studio album by George Strait. The album was released on October 3, 2006 through MCA Nashville Records. The song "Give It Away" from the album was Strait's 41st Number One for Billboard Hot Country Songs.

[[Sangul Utindaan]]

CATEGORIES: Ghana

A Sangul Utindaanː is a traditional spiritual custodian of the Sangul people in Northern Ghana. Some sources translate this position's name to mean the Sangul's "overlord" or "landlord". 

In November 2017, the serving Utindaan is Wunikpel Mbaliye Jato. The  descendants of the Utidaan are Gasetiib, a clan in the Tatale-Sangul District. This role is not the same as one with a similar name in the Saboba District of Northern Ghanabhggg, which has a different title and role.

[[List of governors of Bihar]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Bihar, States and territories of India-related lists, Lists of governors, Lists of Indian people

The Governor of Bihar is a head and representative of the President of India in the state of Bihar. The Governor is appointed by the President for a time of 5 years. Phagu Chauhan is the current Governor of Bihar state.

[[Keshari Nath Tripathi]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians from Uttar Pradesh, Living people, 1934 births, Governors of Bihar, Governors of Meghalaya, Governors of Mizoram, Governors of West Bengal

Keshari Nath Tripathi (केसरी नाथ त्रिपाठी; born 10 November 1934) is an Indian politician. He was the Governor of West Bengal. He took promise as Governor of West Bengal on 24 July 2014 and as Governor of Bihar on 27 November in 2017.  He was selected as the Governor of Mizoram on 4 April 2015. He is an experienced BJP leader. Earlier, he was the speaker of Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly and the president of Uttar Pradesh unit of Bharatiya Janata Party.

[[List of current Indian governors]]

CATEGORIES: State Governors of India, Government of India

The following is the list of Governor's of State in India

[[Cheviot, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Cheviot is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is in Hamilton County.

[[Guernsey County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1810 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Guernsey County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 40,087 people lived there. The county seat is Cambridge.

[[Bad Waldsee]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns in Germany

Bad Waldsee is a town in the district of Ravensburg in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

Bad Waldsee is 20 km south of Biberach an der Riß, and 20 km northeast of Ravensburg.

[[Formazza]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Piedmont

Formazza (Walliser German: Pomatt, Piedmontese: Formassa) is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola in the Italian region Piedmont.

Formazza is about 160 northeast of Turin and 50 north of Verbania. It is on the border with Switzerland.

As of 2004 about 443 people lived there. It has an area of 131.8.

The municipality of Formazza contains the frazioni (subdivisions, mainly villages and hamlets) Foppiano, Antillone, Fondovalle, Chiesa, Valdo, San Michele, Ponte, Brendo, Grovella, Canza, Sotto Frua, La Frua, and Riale.

Formazza borders the following municipalities: Baceno, Bedretto (Switzerland), Bignasco (Switzerland), Binn (Switzerland), Bosco/Gurin (Switzerland), Cavergno (Switzerland), Premia, Reckingen-Gluringen (Switzerland), Ulrichen (Switzerland).

The village was founded by Walser and Walser German is still spoken.

[[Chesterfield, England]]

CATEGORIES: East Midlands

Chesterfield is a major city in the East Midlands region of England. Other main cities in the East Midlands include: Nottingham, Leicester, Lincoln, Derby, Northampton, and Mansfield.

[[Pickaway County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1810 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Pickaway County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 55,698 people lived there. The county seat is Circleville.

[[Circleville, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Circleville is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is the county seat of Pickaway County.

[[Logan County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1810s establishments in Ohio, 1818 establishments in the United States

Logan County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In the 2010 census, 45,858 people lived there. The county seat is Bellefontaine. The county was founded in 1818 and named for Benjamin Logan, who fought Native Americans in the area.

[[Sarzens]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Vaud

Sarzens is a former municipality of the district of Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. On 1 January 2017, it is part of the municipality of Lucens.

[[Abbéville-la-Rivière]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Essonne

Abbéville-la-Rivière is a commune. It is in the Essonne department in north France.

[[Fislis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Fislis is a commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Domat/Ems]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Domat/Ems (Domat, Ems) is a municipality of the district of Imboden in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Bescanó]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Bescanó is a municipality in the province of Girona and autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Piła]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Poland

Piła (Schneidemühl) is a town in northwestern Poland. In 2006, 75,044 people lived there. Piła is the largest town in the northern part of Great Poland. It is the capital of Piła County.

[[Delfinópolis]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Minas Gerais

Delfinópolis is a municipality in southwest Minas Gerais, Brazil.

These municipalities are next to Delfinópolis:  São Roque de Minas (N),  São João Batista do Glória (E), Passos and Cássia (S), Ibiraci (SW), and Sacramento (W).

[[Southern Leyte]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Southern Leyte (Habagatang Leyte, Timog Leyte) is a province of the Philippines. It is located in the Eastern Visayas region. The capital is the city of Maasin.

[[Bontoc, Southern Leyte]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Philippines

Bontoc is a 4th class municipality in the province of Southern Leyte, Philippines.

[[Sogod]]

Sogod can mean:

[[Kudamatsu, Yamaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan

Kudamatsu (下松市), is a city in Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan.

[[Nanchang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Nanchang (南昌) is the capital of Jiangxi province in southeast China.

[[Madingley]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cambridgeshire

Madingley is a village in Cambridgeshire in the United Kingdom. It is near Coton and Dry Drayton.

[[Flaxlanden]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Flaxlanden is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Folgensbourg]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Folgensbourg is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Swedish Transport Agency's law-breaking of security for computer system]]

CATEGORIES: Sweden

Swedish Transport Agency's law-breaking of security for computer system was law-breaking - exposed by media in 2017 - regarding the security of  information in a database of the governmental agency, Swedish Transport Agency.

In January 2017 Sweden's Cabinet fired the agency's director, Maria Ågren; why she was fired was held secret for the public; instead, the public was told that she did not continue in the job, because of disagreement between Ågren and minister of infrastructure, Anna Johansson.

On 27 July 2017 the prime minister announced that two ministers will leave their job: Interior Minister Anders Ygeman and Infrastructure Minister Anna Johansson; this happened because " a no-confidence motion against three of the government's ministers by the opposition Alliance coalition".

[[Mary Ruwart]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American political writers, American political activists, Writers from Detroit, Michigan, Politicians from Michigan, Writers from Texas, Politicians from Texas, 2008 United States presidential candidates, US Libertarian Party politicians

Mary J. Ruwart (born October 16, 1949) is a retired American biomedical researcher and libertarian speaker, writer, and activist.  She was a leading candidate for the 2008 Libertarian Party presidential nomination and is the author of the award-winning Healing Our World.

In March 2008, Ruwart announced her candidacy for the Libertarian presidential nomination in the 2008 election. She lost the nomination to Bob Barr on the sixth ballot at the 2008 Libertarian National Convention on May 25, 2008.

Ruwart unsuccessfully ran for Texas Comptroller in 2010 against incumbent Republican Susan Combs. She received 417,523 votes (10.5%) in a race that had no Democrat.

[[Leo Kinnunen]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Finnish racecar drivers, Formula One drivers

Leo Juhani "Leksa" Kinnunen (5 August 1943 – 26 July 2017) was a Finnish racing driver, and the first Formula One driver from Finland. He was born in Tampere, Finland.

Kinnunen won the Nordic Challenge Cup in 1969, the Interserie from 1971–1973, and helped Porsche to take the World Sportscar Championship for manufacturers in 1970 (drivers championships were not awarded until 1981). In 1974, he switched to Formula One. He was the last driver to compete in Formula One using an open-face helmet.

Kinnunen died on 26 July 2017 at his home in Turku, Finland of pneumonia at the age of 73.

[[Louise Merzeau]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in France, French educators, French photographers, People from Paris

Sylvie Merzeau (commonly called Louise Merzeau, 8 November 1963 – 15 July 2017) was a French academic, university professor at the Paris Nanterre University, specializing on communication studies, as well as a photographer. She was a trustee of Wikimedia France. She was born in Paris.

Merzeau died in Paris on 15 July 2017 of pancreatic cancer at the age of 53.

[[Fritz Hellwig]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiopulmonary arrest, European Commissioners, German centenarians, Nazis, Politicians from Saarland, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany, Sturmabteilung people

Fritz Hellwig (3 August 1912 – 22 July 2017) was a German CDU politician and European Commissioner. 

He was born in Saarbrücken, Germany. Before and during the war he was a member of the Nazi Party and the SA. After the war he served as European Commissioner for Research, Technology and Information Distribution from 1967 through 1970. 

Hellwid turned 100 in August 2012. He died on 22 July 2017 in Berlin of cardiopulmonary arrest at the age of 104.

[[Giovanni Battista Pichierri]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Italy, Deaths from aortic aneurysm, Italian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic archbishops

Giovanni Battista Pichierri (February 12, 1943 – July 26, 2017) was an Italian prelate of Roman Catholic Church. He was born in Sava, Apulia.

He was ordained to the priesthood in 1967. Pichierri served as bishop of the Diocese of Cerignola-Ascoli Satriano, Italy from 1990 to 1999. He then served as archbishop of the Archdiocese of Trani-Barletta-Bisceglie from 1999 to his death in 2017.

Pichierri died in Trani, Apulia of an aortic aneurysm on July 26, 2017 at the age of 74.

[[Lawrence Pezzulo]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Maryland, Ambassadors of the United States, Politicians from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

Lawrence Anthony Pezzulo (May 3, 1926 – July 26, 2017) was an American politician and Foreign Service officer. He served as the United States Ambassador to Nicaragua (1979–1981) and to Uruguay (1977–1979) during the Jimmy Carter presidency. He was a member of the Democratic Party.

Pezzulo was born in New York City. He studied at Columbia University. He married Josephine DiMattia in February 1950. They had three children.

Pezzulo died on July 26, 2017 at his home in Baltimore, Maryland from complications of Alzheimer's disease at the age of 91.

[[Maxlei dos Santos Luzia]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cerebral edema, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro, Brazilian association football goalkeepers

Maxlei dos Santos Luzia or simply Max (27 February 1975 – 26 July 2017) was a Brazilian goalkeeper. He was born in Rio de Janiero. He was known for playing for Portuguesa-RJ, Vila Nova and Botafogo.

In June 2017, Max was the victim of an attempted robbery. The former goalkeeper suffered a fractured right hand and a cerebral edema. On 26 July 2017, Santos Luzia died of a cerebral edema in Rio de Janeiro at the age of 42.

[[Michael McElhatton]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Irish movie actors, Irish television actors, Irish voice actors, Irish stage actors, Actors from Dublin, Writers from Dublin

Michael McElhatton (born 12 September 1963) is an Irish actor and writer. He is best known for playing the role of Roose Bolton in the HBO series Game of Thrones. He joined the series as a guest star in the second season, and continued to play this role until season 5, promoted to a regular cast member.

His first well known role was that of Rats Doyle in the Irish sitcom Paths to Freedom.

In 2011, he had a role in the movie Albert Nobbs  directed by Rodrigo García, and the following year the short  Pentecost , which received a nomination for Best Short Film at the 2012 Academy Awards.

[[Chilika Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of India

Chilika Lake is the biggest brackish water lake on India's east coast. The lake is located in Odisha. It  is attached to the  Bay of Bengal. Part of the lake isa bird sanctuary.

[[Swedish Transport Agency]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Sweden, Transport in Sweden

The Swedish Transport Agency (Transportstyrelsen) is a Swedish government agency under the Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications. It was formed on 1 January 2009, through a merger of several government agencies, including the Civil Aviation Administration.

It has its headquarters in Norrköping, Sweden.

The agency regulates and inspects transportation systems in Sweden.

[[Nakhon Ratchasima]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Thailand

Nakhon Ratchasima is a city in Thailand's Nakhon Ratchasima Province.

[[John Delaney]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Businesspeople from New Jersey, Columbia University alumni, Politicians from New Jersey, 2020 United States presidential candidates, United States representatives from Maryland, US Democratic Party politicians

John Kevin "JK" Delaney (born April 16, 1963) is an American politician and businessman. He was the United States Representative for Maryland's 6th congressional district from 2013 to 2019.

On July 28, 2017, Delaney became the first Democrat to announce he is running for President in 2020. He ended his campaign in January 2020, days before the Iowa caucus.

[[Stephen Tobolowsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Jewish American actors, Jewish American musicians, Jewish American writers, Actors from Dallas, Texas, Writers from Texas, Musicians from Dallas, Texas

Stephen Harold Tobolowsky (born May 30, 1951) is an American actor, author, and musician. He is known for movie roles such as insurance agent Ned Ryerson in Groundhog Day and Sammy Jankis in Christopher Nolan's Memento, as well as such television characters as Commissioner Hugo Jarry (Deadwood), Bob Bishop (Heroes), Sandy Ryerson (Glee), Stu Beggs (Californication), and Action Jack Barker (Silicon Valley).

Tobolowsky is Jewish.

[[Michael Johnson (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Minnesota, American singer-songwriters, American pop singers, American pop musicians, American country guitarists, American country singers, American folk singers, American folk musicians, Singers from Colorado, Musicians from Colorado, Writers from Colorado

Michael Johnson (August 8, 1944 – July 25, 2017) was an American pop, country and folk singer-songwriter and guitarist. 

Johnson was best known for his 1978 hit song "Bluer Than Blue". He charted four hits on the Billboard Hot 100 charts, and nine more on the Hot Country Songs charts, including two Number One country hits in 1986's "Give Me Wings" and "The Moon Is Still Over Her Shoulder". He also co-wrote "Cain's Blood", the debut single of 1990s country group 4 Runner.

Johnson died in Minneapolis, Minnesota on July 25, 2017 after suffering from a long-illness at the age of 72.

[[Billy Joe Walker Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in Texas, American singer-songwriters, Writers from Texas, Singers from Texas, People from Midland, Texas

Billy Joe Walker Jr. (February 29, 1952 – July 25, 2017) was an American songwriter, record producer and recording artist. He made singles for Eddie Rabbitt, including "I Wanna Dance with You", "That's Why I Fell in Love with You" and "B-B-B-Burnin' Up with Love". He was born in Midland, Texas.

Walker Jr. produced the first three albums of Bryan White, and for Pam Tillis, Collin Raye and Travis Tritt. He was also a session musician who played guitar. Between 1987 and 1994, he recorded seven New Age albums, all for major labels.

Walker Jr. died following kidney failure on July 25, 2017 in Kerrville, Texas at the age of 64.

[[Joachim Vobbe]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Bishops, Deaths from prostate cancer, Cancer deaths in Germany, German Roman Catholics, Old Catholics

Joachim Gerhard Vobbe (January 5, 1947 – July 26, 2017) was a German bishop for the Catholic Diocese of the Old Catholics in Germany. He was born in Bad Honnef, Germany.

Vobbe was ordained a priest on 14 June 1972. After serving as a chaplain (Kaplan) for five years in Catholic parishes in Cologne (1972–1974) and Düsseldorf (1974–1977), he joined the Old Catholic Church in 1977, becoming rector in Blumberg until 1982. He then served in Offenbach, latterly as Dean of Hesse.

Vobbe served as the Bishop of the Old Catholics in Germany (based in Bonn) until 2009. As bishop of a church in full communion with the Church of England, he has been licensed as an honorary assistant bishop in that church's Diocese in Europe since 1999.

Vobbe died at Königswinter on 26 July 2017 of prostate cancer at the age of 70.

[[Ramón Xirau]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Mexico, Spanish poets, Mexican poets, Mexican philosophers, Critics, Writers from Barcelona, Writers from Mexico City

Ramón Xirau Subías (raˈmon ʃiˈɾau, rəˈmoɲ ʃiˈɾaw) (20 January 1924 – 27 July 2017) was a Spanish-born Mexican poet, philosopher and literary critic. He was born in Barcelona, Spain. 

[[Hampton Fancher]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles County, California, Movie directors from Los Angeles County, California, Movie producers from Los Angeles County, California, Screenwriters from Los Angeles, California

Hampton Lansden Fancher (born July 18, 1938) is an American actor who became a movie producer and screenwriter in the late 1970s. He is known for writing the screenplay for Blade Runner.

[[Santiniketan]]

Santiniketan is a town in Birbhum District, West Bengal, India.

[[Cross Purposes]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 albums, Heavy metal albums

Cross Purposes is the seventeenth studio album by Black Sabbath. The album was released on January 31, 1994.

[[Betty Boothroyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Former Speakers of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, Labour MPs (UK), People from Yorkshire

Betty Boothroyd, Baroness Boothroyd OM PC (born 8 October 1929) is a British politician. She served as a Labour Member of Parliament (MP) for West Bromwich and West Bromwich West from 1973 to 1992. 

From 1992 to 2000, she served as Speaker of the House of Commons. She was the first, and to date only, female Speaker of the House of Commons. She sits, by tradition, as a Crossbench peer in the House of Lords.

[[Matt Reeves]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Movie directors from New York, Movie producers from New York, Screenwriters from New York

Matthew George "Matt" Reeves (born April 27, 1966) is an American screenwriter, director and producer. 

[[Hsu Pang-hsing]]

CATEGORIES: Taiwanese people, 1909 births, 1984 deaths, Physicians

Hsu Pang-hsing (徐傍興, January 29, 1909 - August 3, 1984) was a Hakka doctor from Pingtung, Taiwan.

[[Eifel]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Luxembourg, Geography of North Rhine-Westphalia, Geography of Rhineland-Palatinate, Liège (province), Mountain ranges of Germany, Wallonia

The Eifel is a mountain range mostly in Germany. The northern part is in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. The southern part is in the state of Rhineland-Palatinate.

The very eastern part of Belgium (the High Fens and most of the German-speaking Community of Belgium) and the northern part of Luxembourg (the Oesling) are considered to be both parts of the Ardennes and parts of the Eifel.

The western border of the Eifel is at the Belgian and Luxembourgian Ardennes. The eastern border is at the Westerwald across the Rhine River. The southern border is at the Hunsrück across the Moselle River. The northern border is at the lower regions of the Rhineland.

[[Garry Monk]]

CATEGORIES: Sportspeople from Bedfordshire, 1979 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, Premier League players

Garry Alan Monk (born 6 March 1979) is an English football manager and former player. He has managed EFL Championship club Middlesbrough since 2017. He played for Torquay United, Southampton, Barnsley and Swansea City. He has previously been the manager of Swansea and Leeds United.

[[2019 United Kingdom general election]]

CATEGORIES: United Kingdom general elections, December 2019 events, 2019 elections

A general election was held on 12 December 2019 to elect all 650 members to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. The Conservative Party won with a landslide majority and Boris Johnson stayed as Prime Minister. The Labour Party lost 60 seats, giving them their lowest number of seats (202) since 1935.

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn quit after the loss saying he "would not lead Labour at the next election". This led to a leadership election in the party where Keir Starmer became the new leader.

[[Kiss Me Once]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 albums, Kylie Minogue albums, Dance pop albums

Kiss Me Once is the twelfth studio album by Australian singer Kylie Minogue. It was released worldwide on 14 March 2014 by Parlophone Records, and is her first studio album since Aphrodite (2010). The album contains two singles, "Into the Blue" and "I Was Gonna Cancel".

[[Niculae Nedeff]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Sportspeople from Bucharest

Niculae Nedeff (September 26, 1928 – July 24, 2017) was a Romanian handball player and coach of the Romania women's national handball team and Romania national handball team. He won the World Championships seven times, three times with the girls' team and four times with the boys' team. He was born in Bucharest.

After retiring, he joined the Executive Committee of the Romanian Olympic Committee. Nedeff died on July 24, 2017 in Bucharest at the age of 88.

[[Obstruction of justice]]

CATEGORIES: Law

Obstruction of justice is a crime. It can be lying to police about a crime or hiding evidence. Destroying evidence of a crime can also be obstruction of justice.

[[Paul Shanley]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American prisoners, American rapists, American Roman Catholics, Child sexual abusers, LGBT Christians, LGBT criminals, LGBT people from Massachusetts, People with personality disorders, Roman Catholic priests, People from Newton, Massachusetts, Writers from Massachusetts

Paul Richard Shanley (January 25, 1931 – October 28, 2020) was a American priest and was accused and convicted of raping a child. He served at St. Jean's Parish in Newton, Massachusetts and was a known figure in the Boston clergy sex abuse scandal. He was incarcerated as inmate W84979 at Old Colony Correctional Center for raping a child in 1980 and was released from prison on July 28, 2017.

Shanley first gained notoriety during the 1970s as a "street priest", ministering to drug addicts and runaways who struggled with their sexuality. His writings included Changing Norms of Sexuality. During the 1980s, Shanley served as pastor of St. Jean the Evangelist Parish in Newton, Massachusetts.

In February 2005, Shanley was found guilty of indecent assaults and the rape of a male minor and received a sentence of 12 to 15 years in prison. Shanley was released from Old Colony Correctional Center on July 28, 2017, after serving 12 years.

Shanley died on October 28, 2020 from heart failure at the age of 89.

[[Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic disorders

Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome (MDS or MDDS) is any of a group of autosomal recessive disorders that cause a significant drop in mitochondrial DNA in affected tissues. 

Symptoms can be any combination of myopathic, hepatopathic, or encephalomyopathic. These syndromes affect tissue in the muscle, liver, or both the muscle and brain, respectively. The condition is typically fatal in infancy and early childhood, though some have survived to their teenage years with the myopathic variant and some have survived into adulthood with the SUCLA2 encephalomyopathic variant. 

There is currently no cure for any form of MDDS, though some preliminary treatments have shown a reduction in symptoms.

[[D. L. Menard]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, American singer-songwriters, American guitarists, Musicians from Louisiana, Singers from Louisiana, Writers from Louisiana

Doris Leon "D. L." Menard (April 14, 1932 – July 27, 2017) was an American singer-songwriter and guitarist in contemporary Cajun music. He was called the "Cajun Hank Williams." He was born in Erath, Louisiana. In 2010, his album Happy Go Lucky  was nominated for a Grammy Award in the Best Zydeco or Cajun music album category.

Menard died on July 27, 2017 in Scott, Louisiana of a heart attack at the age of 85.

[[Marty Sklar]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Disney people, Businesspeople from New Hampshire

Martin A. "Marty" Sklar (February 6, 1934 – July 27, 2017) was an American businessman. He was known for working with The Walt Disney Company as its International Ambassador for Walt Disney Imagineering, the subsidiary of the company which designs and constructs Disney theme parks and resorts across the world.

Sklar was formerly Vice President of Concepts and Planning for the company, before being promoted to President, then Vice Chairman and Principal Creative Executive before his final role. Disney honored him with a Disneyland window dedication ceremony on his date of retirement, July 17, 2009.

Sklar was born in New Brunswick, New Jersey. He studied at the University of California, Los Angeles. Sklar died on July 27, 2017 in Hollywood Hills, California at the age of 83.

[[Dunkirk (2017 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 drama movies, 2010s war movies, American drama movies, American war movies, British drama movies, British war movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Christopher Nolan, Movies composed by Hans Zimmer, Movies set in France, Movies set in the 1940s, Warner Bros. movies, American action thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, American epic movies, American thriller movies, Historical movies, Movies based on real life events, Movies set in Europe, Movies set in the United Kingdom, Survival movies, World War II movies, Period action movies

Dunkirk is a 2017 British-American war drama movie written, co-produced and directed by Christopher Nolan. The movie stars Fionn Whitehead, Tom Glynn-Carney, Jack Lowden, Harry Styles, Aneurin Barnard, James D'Arcy, Barry Keoghan, Kenneth Branagh, Cillian Murphy, Mark Rylance and Tom Hardy.

[[Charlie Gard]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from brain disease, Disease-related deaths in London, People from London

Charlie Gard (4 August 2016 – 28 July 2017) was a British infant born Bedfont, London with a rare genetic condition known as mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome that causes progressive brain damage and muscle failure, including the muscles needed to breathe. There is no treatment, and it causes death in infancy. 

[[Inder Kumar]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Indian movie actors

Inder Kumar (26 August 1973 – 28 July 2017) was an Indian actor. He was born in Jaipur, Rajasthan. Kumar was best known for playing supporting roles in Hindi movies such as Wanted, Tumko Na Bhool Paayenge and Kahin Pyaar Na Ho Jaaye.

[[John G. Morris]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in France, American centenarians, American photographers, American journalists, People from New Jersey

John Godfrey Morris (December 7, 1916 – July 28, 2017) was an American picture editor and an important figure in the history of photojournalism. He was born in Maple Shade, New Jersey. He worked for the weekly picture magazine Life throughout World War II. 

Morris died on 28 July 2017 in Paris of heart failure at the age of 100.

[[Ovidio Messa]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Spain, Bolivian footballers

Ovidio Messa Soruco (12 December 1952 – 27 July 2017) was a Bolivian footballer. He was born in Yacuíba, Bolivia. He was known for playing for the Bolivia national football team from 1978 through 1979. 

Messa died on 27 July 2017 of pancreatic cancer in Alicante, Spain at the age of 64.

[[Gabriel Iglesias]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American voice actors, American television producers, American television writers, American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from California, Writers from California, Actors from San Diego, California

Gabriel Jesus Iglesias (born July 15, 1976) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, producer, writer, singer, dancer, voice artist, and comedian, best known for his shows I'm Not Fat... I'm Fluffy and Hot & Fluffy.

[[Donat, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Donat is a municipality of the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Duvin]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Duvin (Duin) is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Duvin, Castrisch, Ilanz, Ladir, Luven, Pitasch, Riein, Ruschein, Schnaus, Sevgein, Pigniu, Rueun and Siat merged into the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[Coshocton, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Coshocton is a city in Ohio, United States. It is the county seat of Coshocton County.

[[Coshocton County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1811 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in Ohio

Coshocton County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 36,901 people lived there. The county seat is Coshocton.

[[Matsukusa Station]]

CATEGORIES: Iwate Prefecture, Railway stations in Iwate Prefecture

Matsukusa Station is a train station in Miyako, Iwate Prefecture, Japan.

[[Montreux]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud, Cities in Switzerland

Montreux (mɔ̃tʁø) is a municipality of the district of Riviera-Pays-d'Enhaut in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

It is on Lake Geneva shoreline at the foot of the Alps and has a population, CH-VD, of CH-VDCH-VD and nearly 90,000 in the agglomeration.

The Montreux Jazz Festival, annually in July since 1967.

In 1990, the Wakker Prize was awarded to Montreux.

[[Le Châtelard]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vaud, Former municipalities of Vaud

Le Châtelard is a village and former municipality in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

On 1 January 1962 the former municipalities of Le Châtelard and Les Planches merged into the new municipality of Montreux.

[[Les Planches]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vaud, Former municipalities of Vaud

Les Planches is a village and former municipality in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

On 1 January 1962 the former municipalities of Le Châtelard and Les Planches merged into the new municipality of Montreux.

[[Caux, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vaud

Caux is a small village in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. It is part of the municipality of Montreux.

[[Clarens, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vaud

Clarens is a village in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. It is part of the municipality of Montreux.

It was made famous throughout Europe by the immense success of the book La Nouvelle Héloïse by Jean-Jacques Rousseau.

Whilst in Clarens, the Russian composer Igor Stravinsky wrote his ballets The Rite of Spring and Pulcinella and in March 1878, Tchaikovsky wrote his Violin Concerto.

Paul Kruger, hero of South African independence from Britain, died here. For this reason, a village in South Africa was given the same name.

The anarchist and geographer Élisée Reclus resided in Clarens.

Writer Vladimir Nabokov is buried there.

The 19th century writer, diplomat and MP David Urquhart of Braelangwell, who introduced the Turkish bath to Britain, is buried here.

[[Glion]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vaud

Glion is a village in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. It is part of the municipality of Montreux.

This place is where Henri Nestlé died of a heart attack in 1890.

[[Les Avants]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vaud

Les Avants is a village in the canton of Vaud, Switzerland. It is part of the municipality of Montreux.

[[Territet]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Vaud

Territet is a village in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. It is part of the municipality of Montreux. It is between Montreux and Veytaux, on the Lake Geneva shore.

[[Hohenlohe (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Baden-Württemberg

The Hohenlohekreis is a rural district (Landkreis) in the north of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Neckar-Odenwald, Main-Tauber, Schwäbisch Hall and Heilbronn. The capital is Künzelsau.

[[Fortschwihr]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Fortschwihr is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Franken, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Franken is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Therese Johaug]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian Olympians, Skiers, Living people, 1988 births

Therese Johaug (born 25 June 1988) is a Norwegian professional cross-country skier. She won the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 2013 – Women's 10 kilometre freestyle.

Johaug will not (as of August 2017) be able to qualify for the Olympic Games in 2018.

[[Saint-Martin-lez-Tatinghem]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Communes in Pas-de-Calais

Saint-Martin-lez-Tatinghem is a commune in the Pas-de-Calais department of northern France. It was incorporated on 1 January 2016 by the combination of the former communes of Saint-Martin-au-Laërt and Tatinghem.

[[Enquin-lez-Guinegatte]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Pas-de-Calais

Enquin-lez-Guinegatte is a commune in the Pas-de-Calais department of northern France. It was incorporated on 1 January 2017 by the combination of the former communes of Enquin-les-Mines and Enguinegatte.

[[Saint-Augustin, Pas-de-Calais]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Communes in Pas-de-Calais

Saint-Augustin is a commune. It is found in the Pas-de-Calais department of northern France. It was incorporated on 1 January 2016 by the combination of the former communes of Clarques and Rebecques.

[[Bellinghem]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in France, Communes in Pas-de-Calais

Bellinghem is a commune. It is found in the Pas-de-Calais department of northern France. It was incorporated on 1 September 2016 by the combination of the former communes of Herbelles and Inghem.

[[Frittlingen]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Frittlingen is a municipality in Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Gmunden]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Upper Austria

Gmunden is a town in the Austrian state of Upper Austria. It is the capital of the district of Gmunden.

[[Bajram Curri (town)]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Albania

Bajram Curri is a town in northern Albania. The town is named after Bajram Curri.

[[Pedregulho]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in São Paulo (state)

Pedregulho is a municipality in the Brazilian state of São Paulo.

[[Buenos Aires, Cauca]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Colombia

Buenos Aires is a municipality in the Cauca Department in Colombia. It was founded in by Vasco de Guzmán and Alonso de Fuenmayor in 1551.

[[Morales, Cauca]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Colombia

Morales is a municipality in the Cauca Department, Colombia.

[[Cauca Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Colombia, 1857 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Colombia, 1850s establishments in South America

Cauca is a department in the southwestern part of the Colombia. The capital is Popayán.

[[Mercer County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1820s establishments in Ohio, 1824 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Mercer County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 40,814 people lived there. The county seat is Celina.

[[Crestline, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ohio

Crestline is a village in Ohio in the United States.

[[Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Cuyahoga Falls is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Hamilton County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1790s establishments in the Northwest Territory, 1790 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Hamilton County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 802,374 people lived there. The county seat is Cincinnati.

[[Ross County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1798 establishments in the United States

Ross County is a county in the Appalachian region of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 78,064 people lived there. The county seat is Chillicothe

[[Delphos, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Delphos is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Jon van Rood]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch academics, Dutch physicians, People from The Hague, Wolf Prize winners

Johannes Joseph "Jon" van Rood (7 April 1926 – 21 July 2017) was a Dutch immunologist. He founded Eurotransplant in 1967, a non-profit organization responsible for encouraging and coordinating organ transplants. He was born in Scheveningen, the Netherlands.

In 1977 van Rood was awarded the Robert Koch Prize. In 1978, he was awarded the Wolf Prize in Medicine, jointly with George D. Snell and Jean Dausset. van Rood became member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1978.

Van Rood died on 21 July 2017 in Leeuwarden, the Netherlands at the age of 91.

[[Enzo Bettiza]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Croatian writers, Croatian politicians, Italian politicians, Journalists, Novelists, Writers from Rome

Vincenzo Bettiza (7 June 1927 – 28 July 2017) was a Croatian-born Italian novelist, journalist and politician. He was born in Split, Kingdom of Yugoslavia (present day Croatia).

Bettiza has been director of several Italian newspaper and author of numerous books. as a journalist he devoted his attention to Eastern European countries and nationalities, and Southeastern Europe, Yugoslavian area in particular.

In the period 1957-1965 he was foreign correspondent for the newspaper La Stampa, first from Vienna and then from Moscow. Later he moved to Corriere della Sera, for which he worked for ten years.

Starting from 1976, he was member of the Italian Senate and the European Parliament.

Bettiza died on 28 July 2017 in Rome, Italy at the age of 90.

[[Redha Malek]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Prime Ministers of Algeria

Redha Malek (21 December 1931 – 29 July 2017) was an Algerian politician. He served as Prime Minister of Algeria from August 21, 1993 to April 1994.

During his short term of office, which came in the early years of the Algerian Civil War, he pursued a hardline anti-Islamist policy and successfully negotiated debt relief with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), following the implementation of an IMF reform plan.

Malek died on 29 July 2017 in Algiers, Algeria after a long-illness at the age of 85.

[[Yuri Alekseevich Ryzhov]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Russian politicians, Russian scientists, Ambassadors of Russia, Activists, People from Moscow

Yuri Alekseevich Ryzhov (Ю́рий Алексе́евич Рыжо́в; October 28, 1930 – July 29, 2017) was a Soviet and Russian scientist in the field of fluid dynamics, political and social activist. He was born in Moscow. He was a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences (Academician since 1987; Corresponding Member since 1981). He served as Russian Ambassador to France from 1992 through 1998.1

Ryzhov died on July 29, 2017 in Moscow at the age of 86.

[[Hastings and Rye (UK Parliament constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Constituencies in the United Kingdom

Hastings and Rye is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2010 by Amber Rudd, a Conservative.  Rudd has been Home Secretary in the Theresa May Cabinet since 2016.

[[Southampton Itchen (UK Parliament constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Constituencies in the United Kingdom

Southampton, Itchen is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Royston Smith, a Conservative member of parliament.

The electorate is 74,513 (December 2010).

[[Bournemouth West (UK Parliament constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Constituencies in the United Kingdom

Bournemouth West is a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. It is represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament by Conor Burns.

As of 2011, the population is 98,968.

[[Makhmut Gareev]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2019 deaths, Russian historians, Russian scientists, Soviet generals

Makhmut Akhmetovich Gareyev (Махмут Ахметович Гареев Мәхмүт Әхмәт улы Гәрәев) (June 23, 1923 – December 25, 2019) was a Russian General of the Army, a historian, and a military scientist. He was the former Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the USSR. He was the president of the Russian Academy of Military Sciences.

Gareyev held the Doctor of Science degree in History and Military Science.

Gareev was born in Chelyabinsk. He died on December 25, 2019 in Moscow at the age of 96.

[[Kosovo War]]

CATEGORIES: Kosovo, Yugoslavia, Wars

 Bilall Syla

 Hamëz JashariKIA

NATO Wesley Clark

Albania Kudusi Lama 

Serbia and Montenegro Dragoljub Ojdanić

Serbia and Montenegro Nebojša Pavković

Serbia and Montenegro Vlastimir Đorđević

Serbia and Montenegro Vladimir LazarevićSerbia and Montenegro Sreten Lukić

NATO cca. 80 aircraft(Operation Eagle Eye) NATO 1,031 aircraft(Operation Allied Force) NATO 30+ warships and submarines

Flag of Serbia 1992-2004.svg Serbian paramilitary units (Šakali, Škorpioni), unknown number

RUS Russian volunteers, unknown number 

US 2 killed (non-combat) and 3 captured

US 2 aircraft shot down and 3 damagedUS Two AH-64 Apaches and an AV-8B Harrier crashed (non-combat)

NATO 47 UAVs shot down

FRA Possible unknown number of DGSE officers killed

Caused by NATO:Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 1,008–1,200 killed Serbia and Montenegro 14 tanks, 18 APCs, 20 artillery pieces and 121 aircraft and helicopters destroyed

Caused by KLA and NATO: Serbia and Montenegro 1,084 killed (per the HLC)

ALB 90% of Kosovar Albanians displaced during the war (848,000–863,000 expelled from Kosovo, 590,000 Kosovar Albanians displaced within Kosovo)

Serbia and Montenegro 1,641–2,500 Serb and other non-Albanian civilians killed or missing (445 Roma and others)

Serbia and Montenegro 230,000 Kosovo Serbs, Romani and other non-Albanian civilians displaced

Serbia and Montenegro/ALB Civilian deaths caused by NATO bombing: 489–528 (per Human Rights Watch) or 453–2,500 (per the HLC and Tanjug); also includes PRC 3 Chinese journalists killed

13,548 civilians and fighters dead overall (Albanians, Serbs, Bosniaks, Roma)

The Kosovo War was a controversial war that took place from 1998 to 1999 in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Kosovo Liberation Army fought the Yugoslavian army from 1998 to 1999. In 1999 NATO bombed Yugoslavia to prevent genocide in Kosovo.

[[Kosovo Liberation Army]]

CATEGORIES: Kosovo

The Kosovo Liberation Army were Albanian guerilla groups which operated in Kosovo in the late 1990s.

[[Al Shaheen Oil Field]]

CATEGORIES: Qatar

The Al Shaheen Oil Field is a production oil and gas field. It is located off the north east coast of Qatar in the Persian Gulf, 80 north of Doha. The oil field lies over the North Gas Field, one of the largest gas fields in the world.

In 2008, the BD-04A well in the  Al Shaheen Oil Field became the longest and deepest borehole in the world.

[[Tomás Luis de Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Renaissance composers, Spanish composers, 1548 births, 1611 deaths

Tomás Luis de Victoria was a Spanish composer of Renaissance music, (1548 – 27 August 1611). He was one of the most important composers of the Counter-Reformation, along with Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina and Orlando di Lasso.

Victoria was not only a composer, but also an accomplished organist and singer as well as a Catholic priest. However, he preferred the life of a composer to that of a performer.

[[Mateo Flecha]]

CATEGORIES: 1481 births, 1553 deaths, Renaissance composers, Spanish composers

Mateo Flecha (Catalan: Mateu Fletxa; 1481–1553) was a composer born in Kingdom of Aragon, in the region of Prades. He is sometimes known as "El Viejo" (the elder) to distinguish him from another composer of madrigals, his nephew, Mateo Flecha "El Joven" (the younger). "El Viejo" is best known for his ensaladas, published in Prague in 1581 by the same nephew.

[[University of Central Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Arkansas, 1907 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Arkansas

The University of Central Arkansas (often called UCA) is a public university in Conway, Arkansas. The university was founded in 1907. It is known for having one of the first honors colleges in the United States.

UCA has about 12,000 students in undergraduate and graduate programs. It is made up of six colleges: the College of Fine Arts and Communication, the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, the College of Business, the College of Health and Behavioral Sciences, the College of Liberal Arts, and the College of Education.

[[Tato Cifuentes]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiopulmonary arrest, Deaths from pneumonia, Accidental deaths from falls, Disease-related deaths in Argentina, Chilean movie actors, Chilean television actors, Chilean singers, Argentine movie actors, Argentine television actors, Argentine singers, Argentine comedians, Radio actors, Voice actors, People from Santiago, Actors from Buenos Aires

Héctor Raúl "Tato" Cifuentes Lira (14 October 1925 – 30 July 2017) was a Chilean-born Argentine actor, singer and ventriloquist. He was born in Santiago, Chile. During his career, he performed in Uruguay and Argentina.

His career began in the early 1950s. He was known for his movie roles Cuidado con las imitaciones (1948), Imitaciones peligrosas (1949) and Tiempo de crear (1962). His best known singles were "El mambo de la chocolata", "Los Tatines", and "El relojito".

Cinfuentes suffered from male breast cancer in 2008, which he had to undergo chemotherapy.

Cifuentes died on 30 July 2017 of cardiopulmonary arrest complicated by pneumonia after falling at his home in Buenos Aires, Argentina at the age of 91.

[[Alverca do Ribatejo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Portugal

Alverca do Ribatejo is a city in the municipality of Vila Franca de Xira, Portugal.

[[Magnus Böcker]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Swedish businesspeople, People from Stockholm

Magnus Böcker (August 31, 1961 – July 27, 2017) was a Swedish businessman. He was born in Stockholm, Sweden. He was the Executive Chairman of Blibros Capital Partners, an investment company based in Singapore and Stockholm. He was also Chairman and Co-Founder of Tryb.

Böcker died at his home in Singapore of cancer on July 27, 2017 at the age of 55.

[[Olivier Strebelle]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Belgian artists, Sculptors, People from Brussels

Olivier Strebelle (20 January 1927 – 29 July 2017) was a Belgian sculptor. He was born in Brussels on 20 January 1927.

His monumental (usually bronze) sculptures adorn many public places in Brussels as well as in Germany, Israel, Italy, Russia, Singapore, Switzerland, and the United States.

Strebelle was a knwon artist for more than 65 years, and his works are found in private collections and public settings around the world. His style has evolved from robust, organic abstract forms to the sinuous lines seen in Athletes' Alley, on the site of the Beijing Olympic Games.

His sculpture "The Abduction of Europa" (L'Enlèvement d'Europe) has been on display in the Square of Europe, Moscow since September 2002.

Strebelle died on 29 July 2017 in Brussels at the age of 90.

[[Les Murray (broadcaster)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Sydney, Hungarian sportspeople, Australian journalists, Australian television presenters, People from Budapest

Les James Murray AM (László Ürge; 5 November 1945 – 31 July 2017) was a Hungarian-Australian sports journalist, soccer broadcaster and analyst. He was born in Budapest. He was the host of The World Game on SBS television. He retired in July 2014. He has been inducted into the FFA's Football Hall of Fame.

Murray died on 31 July 2017 in Sydney, Australia after a long-illness at the age of 71.

[[John Delaney 2020 presidential campaign]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States presidential campaigns

The 2020 presidential campaign of John Delaney, the U.S. Representative representing Maryland's 6th congressional district, was announced on July 28, 2017. He became the first major Democrat to announce their campaign for President.

His campaign launched with the publication of an editorial on the Washington Post's website. On the same day, he launched a campaign Twitter account and YouTube account, on which he posted a five-minute video telling voters of his plans. He ended his campaign in January 2020. 

[[Donald Trump 2020 presidential campaign]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States presidential campaigns, Donald Trump

The Donald Trump presidential campaign, 2020 was a reelection campaign by President of the United States Donald Trump, who took office on January 20, 2017.

Trump was defeated in the election by Democratic nominee Joe Biden. His presidency ended on January 20, 2021, when Biden was sworn in as the 46th president.

[[Charley Marouani]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, French photographers, French businesspeople

Charley Marouani (7 December 1926 – 29 July 2017) was a French impresario and celebrity agent. He was born in Sousse, Tunisia. Marouani began his career as a photographer in Nice. Afterwards, he became a talent agent, representing Jacques Brel, Barbara, Sylvie Vartan, Henri Salvador, Joe Dassin and Salvatore Adamo.

Marouani became a knight of the Legion of Honour in 2009.

Marouani died on 29 July 2017 in Corsica, France at the age of 90.

[[Demeter Bitenc]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2018 deaths, Slovenian actors, Movie actors, People from Ljubljana

Demeter Bitenc (21 July 1922 – 22 April 2018) was a Slovenian movie actor. He has appeared in 75 movies from his career's beginning in 1953 until his retirement in 2004. He was born in Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Bitenc best known roles are in Island of the Amazons (1960), Apache Gold (1963), Target for Killing (1966), The Seventh Continent (1966), Poppea's Hot Nights (1969), The Ravine (1969), Private Vices, Public Pleasures (1976), Cross of Iron (1977), The Secret of Nikola Tesla (1980), War and Remembrance (1988), Outsider (1997) and in Long Dark Night (2004).

Bitenc died on 22 April 2018 in Ljubljana at the age of 95.

[[Rock ptarmigan]]

CATEGORIES: Galliformes

The rock ptarmigan (Lagopus muta) is a medium-sized gamebird in the grouse family. It is known simply as the ptarmigan in the UK and in Canada, where it is the official bird for the territory of Nunavut, Canada, and the official game bird for the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. It is known as the snow chicken in the United States. In Japan, it is known as the raichō (雷鳥), which means "thunder bird". It is the official bird of Gifu, Nagano, and Toyama Prefectures and is a protected species nationwide.

[[List of Cuban scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists, Cuban scientists

The list of Cuban scientists include: 

[[List of Filipino scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists, Filipino scientists

The List of Filipino scientists include:

[[Dastilbe]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct fish

Dastilbe is a prehistoric bony fish. It could reach a length of 25-60 mm, with a maximum length of about 150 mm.

It was probably an anadromous fish, meaning it lived most of its life in the sea but swam to fresh water to spawn (reproduce). Larger individuals of this predatory fish fed on smaller fishes and probably they were cannibalistic.

[[Slim Mahfoudh]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Tunisian actors, Tunisian movie actors, Television actors, Stage actors, People from Tunis

Slim Mahfoudh (c. 1942 – 30 July 2017) was a Tunisian actor. He acted on the stage, movies, and on television series like Al Khottab Al Bab and Choufli Hal which are his best known works. He was born in Tunis, Tunisia.

Mahfoudh died of lung cancer on 30 July 2017 in Tunis at the age of 75.

[[Arrondissements of the Cher department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Cher department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Cher are:

[[H. Sayeeduddin Dagar]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Indian singers

Hussain Sayeeduddin Dagar (20 April 1939 – 30 July 2017), popularly known as Saeed Bhai, was an Indian classical vocalist. His songs were dedicated to the Dhrupad tradition. The oldest existing form of north Indian classical music (Hindustani classical music). He was a part of the Dagar family of musicians. He was born in Alwar, Rajasthan.

[[Warren Keith Urbom]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, American judges, American lawyers, Politicians from Nebraska

Warren Keith Urbom (December 17, 1925 – July 28, 2017) was an American judge. He was a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Nebraska from 1970 until his retirement in 2014. He was nominated to the position by President Richard Nixon.

Urbom was born in Atlanta, Nebraska. He studied at Nebraska Wesleyan University and at the University of Michigan. Urbom died in Lincoln, Nebraska on July 28, 2017, at the age of 91.

[[Kidnapping of Ciro Cirillo]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 crimes, 1981 in Europe, 1980s in Italy, 1980s murders in Europe, April events, Kidnapping, Terrorist incidents in Europe in the 1980s

On April 27 1981, in Naples, Italy, the Red Brigades kidnapped 60-year-old Christian Democrat (DC) politician Ciro Cirillo. They killed his two-man escort in the garage of his apartment building.

At the time Cirillo directed reconstruction efforts in Campania devastated by the earthquake in the Irpinia region on November 23, 1980.

Cirillo was released after a controversial ransom paid by the Italian government.

The outcome of the Cirillo kidnapping stood in sharp contrast to the kidnapping of the Italian former Prime Minister Aldo Moro. When Moro was abducted by the Red Brigades in 1978, the Christian Democrats in government immediately took action rather waiting for a solid negotiation.

Cirillo died on 30 July 2017 at the age of 96.

[[Arrondissement of Bourges]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Bourges is an arrondissement of France, in the Cher department, Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital, and prefecture of the department, is the city of Bourges.

[[Deaths in August 2017]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, August 2017 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in August 2017. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".  Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

[[Paulo Garcia]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Brazilian politicians, Mayors

Paulo de Siqueira Garcia (13 May 1959 – 30 July 2017) was a Brazilian physician and politician. He was a member of the Workers' Party. He was the mayor of Goiânia from 1 April 2010, when then-mayor Iris Rezende resigned in order to run for Governor at the 2010 election until 2016. He was born in Goiânia, Goiás.

On 30 July 2017, Garcia died of a heart attack at his home in Goiânia, aged 58.

[[Collateral adjective]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of speech

A collateral adjective is an adjective whose word origin is different from the noun it represents. English has many collateral adjectives from French, Latin, and Greek, because many English words come from these languages. For example, the adjectives for the native English words "horse" and "moon" are "equine" and "lunar". Equine comes from the Latin "equus". Lunar comes from the Latin "luna". This is why the study of horses is called "equine science" and the calendar for the moon called the "lunar calendar".

Nouns sometimes have both collateral and derived adjectives -- adjectives whose origin is the same as the noun they represent. For example, "father" has the adjective "fatherly" coming from father. It also has the collateral adjective "paternal" from the Latin word "pater", which also means "father".

[[Liu Wen-hsiung]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Taiwanese politicians

Liu Wen-hsiung (劉文雄; 8 September 1954 – 31 July 2017) was a Taiwanese politician. He served in the Legislative Yuan from 1999 to 2008. He was a member of the People First Party from 2000 until his death in 2017. He was born in Keelung, Taiwan.

Liu died of complications from a heart attack on 31 July 2017 at a hospital in Anle, Taiwan at the age of 62.

[[Junkie XL]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, DJs, Drummers, Dutch composers, Electronic musicians, Dutch engineers, Guitarists, Keyboardists, People from Gelderland

Antonius Tom Holkenborg (born 8 December 1967 in Lichtenvoorde), known by his stage name Junkie XL and occasionally JXL, is a Dutch multi-instrumentalist, composer, DJ, producer, and engineer. Originally known for his trance productions, he has moved to producing electronica and big beat music and film scores in recent years. Junkie XL is probably best known for his remix of Elvis Presley's "A Little Less Conversation".

In movie scores, he is perhaps known for his work on films like 300: Rise of an Empire, Mad Max: Fury Road, the Deadpool movies, and the DC Extended Universe beginning with Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice with Hans Zimmer, also contributing to the theme song for Wonder Woman. He was originally hired to write the music for Justice League but left the project with director Zack Snyder and was replaced with Danny Elfman. However, when Snyder was brought back to complete his version of the movie, later titled Zack Snyder's Justice League, Junkie XL was brought back as well and finished the music for it.

Junkie XL was born in Lichtenvoorde, Gelderland, Netherlands. 

[[Jacinda Ardern]]

CATEGORIES: Jacinda Ardern, 1980 births, Living people, Current national leaders, Politicians from North Island, Prime Ministers of New Zealand, Women politicians, Socialist politicians, Feminists, Leaders of the Opposition (New Zealand)

Jacinda Kate Laurell Ardern (dʒ; born 26 July 1980) is a New Zealand politician. She is the 40th Prime Minister of New Zealand and Leader of the Labour Party since 2017. She was elected to the House of Representatives in 2008. She has been the member of Parliament (MP) for Mount Albert since March 2017.

Ardern was born in Hamilton and grew up in Morrinsville and Murupara. After graduating from the University of Waikato in 2001, Ardern began her career working as a researcher for Prime Minister Helen Clark. She later worked in London in the Cabinet Office, and was elected president of the International Union of Socialist Youth. Ardern was first elected as an MP in the 2008 general election, when Labour lost control after nine years. She was later elected to represent the Mount Albert electorate in a by-election in February 2017.

Ardern was elected Deputy Leader of the Labour Party on 1 March 2017, after the resignation of Annette King. Just five months later, after Labour's leader Andrew Little resignation, Ardern was elected as party leader. She led her party to win 14 seats at the 2017 general election on 23 September, winning 46 seats to the National Party's 56. After working with New Zealand First, a minority coalition government with Labour and New Zealand First was formed, supported by the Green Party. Ardern became Prime Minister and she was sworn in by the governor-general on 26 October 2017. She became the world's youngest female head of government at age 37. Ardern later became the world's second elected head of government to give birth while in office when her daughter was born in June 2018.

Ardern calls herself a social democrat and a progressive. Her government has focused on the New Zealand housing crisis, child poverty, and social inequality. In March 2019, she became popular because of her leadership during the Christchurch mosque shootings and for introducing strict gun laws in response. For much of 2020, she also became popular for the country's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Ardern led the Labour Party to a historic victory in the 2020 general election, winning a majority of 65 seats in Parliament.

[[Falera]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Falera is a municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Fanas]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden, 2011 disestablishments in Switzerland

Fanas is a former municipality of the district of Davos in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Fanas and Valzeina merged into the new municipality of Grüsch.

[[Lisa Duck]]

Lisa Duck is a cartoon character created by Walt Disney. She is the auntie of Donald Duck and she is famous for being a singer. She created the song My Hero 2last Remix.

[[Social cohesion]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Sociology

In psychology, social cohesion is a way of measuring, how close the members of a group are. If social cohesion is high, the members of the group ideally feel like a team. In this context, the group members may value the success of a task of the group higher than a task which only benefits them individually.

[[Jérôme Golmard]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Disease-related deaths in Florida, French tennis players, People from Dijon

Jérôme Golmard (9 September 1973 – 31 July 2017) was a former French No. 1 male tennis player. He was born in Dijon, France.

Golmard  reached a career-high singles ranking of World No. 22 in April 1999, winning 2 singles titles and reaching the semifinals of Monte Carlo in 1999. Golmard finished his career with over $2.2 million in prize money. Among the many notable players he beat on the ATP Tour are former World No. 1s Andre Agassi, Jim Courier, Gustavo Kuerten, Juan Carlos Ferrero, Marcelo Ríos and Carlos Moyá, as well as Grand Slam champions Richard Krajicek, Goran Ivanišević, Albert Costa, Gastón Gaudio, Thomas Johansson and Michael Chang.

Golmard was diagnosed in 2014 with ALS. Golmard died on 31 July 2017 of the disease at his Boca Raton, Florida home at the age of 43.

[[Video editing]]

CATEGORIES: Technology

Video editing is the act of changing video by arranging or changing the order, or content of the video. It is used to show information in things like video essays, movies, television and adverts (commercials). Video editing has been used more in recent years because more people are able to use it than ever, since the wide spread use of personal computers. right|thumb|A vision mixer. This was used in the early days of video editing.

[[Moana]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 animated movies, Disney animated movies, American family movies, Polynesia

Moana is an American movie that was released on November 23, 2016 to theaters in the United States. It was made by Walt Disney Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It is the 55th movie made by Walt Disney Animation Studios. It cost $150 million to make the movie, and the movie made about $642 million in the box office. Moana is named for its main character Moana, a native Polynesian daughter who saves the people of her island from a blight.

[[Jeffrey Brotman]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Businesspeople from Washington, American Jews, American lawyers, American philanthropists, People from Tacoma, Washington, Jewish businesspeople, Jewish lawyers, Jewish philanthropists

Jeffrey Harold Brotman (September 27, 1942 – August 1, 2017) was an American attorney and businessman. He was the co-founder and chairman of Costco Wholesale Corporation.

Brotman served on the boards of several public companies and according to Businessweek magazine is "connected to 13 board members"  and sat on the Board of Directors of the Million-Dollar Roundtable at the United Way of King County.

Brotman was born in Tacoma, Washington. He was raised with a Jewish family. Brotman studied at the University of Washington. In 1976, he married Susan Thrailkill. They had two children.

Brotman died on August 1, 2017 in Medina, Washington at the age of 74.

[[Steve Trevor]]

CATEGORIES: Wonder Woman, DC Comics characters

General Steven Rockwell Trevor is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. He is the sidekick and often involved in a romantic relationship with the superhero Wonder Woman. 

The character was created by William Moulton Marston and first appeared in All Star Comics #8 (December 1941). Steve Trevor is a trusted friend, love interest and partner who introduces Diana (Wonder Woman) to "Man's World", and has served as Wonder Woman's United Nations liaison.

The character has appeared in many adaptations of the comics. He has been voiced by actors such as Tahmoh Penikett, Nathan Fillion, and George Newbern, among others in various Wonder Woman and Justice League productions. Lyle Waggoner played the character in the 1970s Wonder Woman series. Chris Pine played Trevor in the 2017 DC Extended Universe movie Wonder Woman and will reprise the role in Wonder Woman 1984 (2019).

[[Lukenie River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Africa, Geography of the Democratic Republic of the Congo

The Lukenie River is a river in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

[[The Room (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s romantic drama movies, American black comedy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Cult movies, Infidelity in movies, Movies set in San Francisco, Suicide in movies, American independent movies

The Room is a 2003 American independent romantic drama movie. It stars Tommy Wiseau. He also wrote, directed, produced it. The movie is mainly about a love affair where a banker named Johnny (played by Wiseau), is cheated on by his future wife Lisa (Juliette Danielle), with his best friend Mark (Greg Sestero). The movie is considered by many to be the worst movie ever made, but is enjoyed by a cult audience for its odd story structure, having bad acting and being funny, although mostly not on purpose. A lot of the movie brings up unrelated subplots that do not get solved. Most of these have at least one supporting character. There is also confusion about why the movie is called "The Room", but Wiseau says he named it that because a room in a house is where lots of good and bad things take place.

[[Gramogram]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems

A gramogram is a type of rebus in which a letter or a string of letters is used to make words because the names of the letters sound like the word they represent. An example of this is writing "See you" as "CU", since the names of the letters for the gramogram sound like the words of the phrase.

[[Victoria Herridge]]

CATEGORIES: Pages created with the Article Wizard from 2017

Victoria "Tori" Herridge (born 1980) is a female paleontologist who was born in Britain. She works for the Natural History Museum in London

[[Lutshuadi River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Africa, Geography of the Democratic Republic of the Congo

The Lutshuadi River is a river in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

[[Flag of Hungary]]

CATEGORIES: Hungary, National flags, Establishments in Hungary, 1957 establishments in Europe

The Flag of Hungary is the flag of the European country, Hungary. It has three horizontal tricolour of red, white and green. It was adopted on 23 May 1957.

[[Flag of Finland]]

CATEGORIES: Finland, National flags

The Flag of Finland is the flag of the European country, Finland. It is a white with a blue Nordic cross.

[[Flag of Luxembourg]]

CATEGORIES: Luxembourg, National flags

The Flag of Luxembourg (Lëtzebuerger Fändel, Flagge Luxemburgs, Drapeau du Luxembourg) has three horizontal stripes of red, white and blue, and can be in 1:2 or 3:5 ratio. It was first used between 1845 and 1848 and officially adopted on 23 June 1972.

[[T. Rex Autopsy]]

T. Rex Autopsy is a 2015 documentary when a team of four paleontologists dissect a silicon Tyrannosaurus. The four palentologists were Tori Herridge, Stephen Brusatte, Matthew T. Mossbrucker and Luke Gamble, who is the lead anatomist. The T. rex was based off the most complete fossil, "Sue".

[[Flag of Guinea]]

CATEGORIES: Guinea, National flags

The national Flag of Guinea was created on November 10, 1958. The flag is a vertical tricolour of red, yellow and green.

[[Feldis/Veulden]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Feldis/Veulden is a former municipality of the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Feldis/Veulden, Scheid, Trans and Tumegl/Tomils merged into the new municipality of Tomils.

[[Sant'Antonio (disambiguation)]]

Sant'Antonio can mean:

[[Felsberg, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Felsberg (Favugn) is a municipality of the district Imboden in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Fréland]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Fréland is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Three letter rule]]

CATEGORIES: English language

In English, the three letter rule (or short word rule) is the observation that content words are three letters long at least.

One- and two-letter words are mostly function words. Examples: I, at, he, if, of, or, etc. Therefore, content words almost all have at least three letters. Notice that content words with fewer than three phonemes get an extra letter or letters which are "phonetically redundant": the extra letters do not change the sound. Examples are such as eb'b, ''ad'''d, eg'g, ''in'''n, be'e, ''aw'''e, b'uy'', ''owe', etc.

[[Carl E. Reichardt]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiopulmonary arrest, Disease-related deaths in California, Businesspeople from Houston, Texas

Carl Edwin Reichardt Jr. (July 6, 1931 – July 13, 2017) was an American banking executive. He was born in Houston, Texas. He was a graduate of the University of Southern California. During his career, he served as President of Wells Fargo & Company from 1978 through 1983.

Reichardt also served on the boards of a number of corporations, include Pacific Gas & Electric, ConAgra, HCA, McKesson, HSBC Holdings PLC, and the Newhall Management Corporation.

Reichardt died on July 13, 2017 at his home in Belvedere, California from cardiopulmonary arrest at the age of 86.

[[Hugh Beaver]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1967 deaths

Sir Hugh Beaver (May 4 1890 - January 16 1967) was the creator of the Guiness Book of World Records (1955 and still publishing). He came up with the idea after a big debate about if the bird they saw was indeed the fastest of its type. In 1954 he sent Norris and Ross McWhirter to create a fact finding agency. He knew they would be up to the job.

[[List of Brazilian scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian scientists, Lists of scientists by nationality

This is a list of Brazilian scientists.

[[List of Chinese scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese scientists, Lists of scientists by nationality

This a list of noted  scientists from  China.

[[List of Egyptian scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian scientists, Lists of scientists by nationality

The list of Egyptian scientists includes

[[List of Iranian scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian people by occupation, Lists of scientists by nationality

The following is a list of notable Iranian scientists.

[[Hywel Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Welsh movie actors, Welsh television actors

Hywel Thomas Bennett (8 April 1944 – 25 July 2017) was a Welsh actor. Bennett was known for his recurring title role as James Shelley in the television sitcom Shelley (1979–84), and its sequel The Return of Shelley (1988–92).

After becoming known for his role in the comedy movie The Virgin Soldiers (1969), Bennett made appearances in movier such as Loot (1970) and Percy (1971). He was in EastEnders during 2003 as gangster Jack Dalton.

Bennett died on 25 July 2017 at the age of 73. 

[[Arrondissement of Saint-Amand-Montrond]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Saint-Amand-Montrond is an arrondissement of France, in the Cher department, Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital, and subprefecture of the department, is the city of Saint-Amand-Montrond.

[[Oldest people]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of people, Supercentenarians

This is a list of tables of the oldest people in the world.

[[Swordplay Showdown]]

CATEGORIES: Wii games

Swordplay Showdown is an activity in Wii Sports Resort. In this single-player activity, the player must attempt to defeat all enemies by hitting them with his or her sword. The stage (aka level or theme) is cleared when the player successfully kills all enemies. The game will end early and the player will loose if the player gets hit by enemies three times in one stage.

Most times, enemies can be defeated with a single hit per enemy. However, on some upper levels, enemies may require either two or three hits to be defeated. Enemies that require two hits will be wearing either red or purple armor and will display two hearts next to their name. Enemies that require three hits to be defeated will be wearing black armor and will display three hearts next to their name. Enemies that require more than one hit to be defeated will be alerted to the player via the use of a "jump-force" alert audio sound.

There are 20 possible stages or levels to be cleared. The themes are as follows:

After clearing the volcano theme, the user unlocks 10 additional bonus "reverse" stages. These stages are the same themes in the same order, except the fight is played in the opposite direction. Additionally, reverse themes are more difficult than their standard equivalent.

[[Island Flyover]]

CATEGORIES: Wii games

Island Flyover is an air sport activity in Wii Sports Resort. It is a single-player activity. The user must fly a miniature aircraft around Wuhu Island and fly through "I" symbols. These "I" symbols are sightseeing points and collecting more of them will unlock prizes for the player.

There are 80 total possible sightseeing points to be collected. Some points are very obvious to find (i.e. the Maka Wuhu volcano, the Red Iron Bridge, the Queen Peach Cruise Liner, the Beaches, etc.) However, some points are extremely difficult to find and extremely difficult to collect. These points are usually inside narrow tunnels (i.e. Stillwater Grotto, Lava Tube Tunnel, Heart of Maka Wuhu, Sea Serpent Caverns, etc) or they are on top of objects that are moving (i.e. the Seaplane Team, the Whale Shark, Miguel's Guide Plane, etc.)

Once a user collects 10 points, they can pop balloons with their plane blaster that will count toward their activity record as well.

If a user visits Wedge Island, a small island across the ocean from Wuhu Island, additional points can be collected and such points are often worth greater rewards. Wedge Island is essentially a golf course with some small areas of forest and some small separate islands.

Once a user collects 20 points, they can play the activity at dusk. Once a user collects 40 points, they can play the activity at night. Once a user collects all 80 points, they are considered to have beat the game and they unlock a private vacation home on a small island next to Wuhu Island in order to congratulate their accomplishment.

The final reward in the game is the "Ballonantic" reward which requires that the user pop every single white balloon in the game. Approximately half of the total balloons are white, and there are over 10,000 total balloons, so this reward is quite difficult to obtain.

[[Wanda Chotomska]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Polish poets, Television writers, Screenwriters, People from Warsaw

Wanda Maria Chotomska (26 October 1929 – 2 August 2017) was a Polish children's writer, screenwriter and poet. She was born in Warsaw. She was known for being the screenwriter of the Jacek i Agatka television series.

Her poems include: Wiersze pod psem (1959), Siedem księżyców (1970), Tańce polskie (1981), Kram z literami (1987), Wiersze dla dzieci (1997), and Wanda Chotomska dla najmłodszych (2000).

Chotomska died in Warsaw on 2 August 2017 at the age of 87.

[[John Graham (rugby union)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cancer, New Zealand rugby union players, New Zealand educators

Sir David John Graham (9 January 1935 – 2 August 2017), generally known as John Graham, was a New Zealand educator and rugby union player. He served as president of the New Zealand Rugby Football Union (NZRFU) and was an All Black loose forward. 

Graham played 22 Tests between 1958 and 1964, including three as captain. He was headmaster of Auckland Grammar School from 1973 to 1993, New Zealand cricket team manager from 1997 to 1999, the University of Auckland Chancellor from 1999 to 2004, and was elected president of the NZRFU in April 2005.

Graham was born in Stratford, New Zealand. Graham died of cancer in Auckland on 2 August 2017 at the age of 82.

[[Judith Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, American editors, Writers from New York City

Judith Jones (née Bailey; March 10, 1924 – August 2, 2017) was an American writer and proofreader. She was best known for having rescued the The Diary of Anne Frank from the reject pile. Jones also helped publish Julia Child's Mastering the Art of French Cooking. 

Jones retired as senior editor and vice president at Alfred A. Knopf in 2011. Jones was also a cookbook author and memoirist. She won multiple lifetime achievement awards, including the James Beard Foundation Lifetime Achievement Award in 2006.

[[Jim Marrs]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Texas, American political writers, American educators, American journalists, Writers from Fort Worth, Texas

Jim Marrs (December 5, 1943 – August 2, 2017) was an American newspaper journalist and The New York Times best-selling writer of books and articles on a wide range of alleged cover ups and conspiracies. He was born in Fort Worth, Texas.

Marrs was a important figure in the JFK conspiracy press and his book Crossfire was a source for Oliver Stone's movie JFK. He wrote books asserting the existence of government conspiracies regarding aliens, 9/11, telepathy, and secret societies. He was once a news reporter in the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex and taught a class on the assassination of John F. Kennedy at University of Texas at Arlington for 30 years. Marrs was a member of the Scholars for 9/11 Truth.

Marrs died of a heart attack on August 2, 2017 in Springtown, Texas at the age 73.

[[Shen Daren]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Chinese politicians, Communists

Shen Daren (沈达人) (June 1928 – August 2, 2017) was a Chinese politician. He was born in Wu County, Jiangsu. He was Communist Party of China Committee Secretary of Ningxia (1986–1989) and his home province (1989–1993). He was a delegate to the 8th National People's Congress (1993–1998) and 9th National People's Congress (1998–2003).

Shen died on August 2, 2017 in Beijing at the age of 89.

[[Bonaventura Duda]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Academics, Christian theologians, Croatian people, Monks, Roman Catholics

Bonaventura Duda (January 14, 1924 – August 3, 2017) was a Croatian theologian and biblical scholar. He was a well known corresponding member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Duda was known as one of the greatest biblical translators and promoters of the spirit of the Second Vatican Council.

From 1964 until 1969 he was professor and head of the Department of the Scriptures of the New Testament at the Catholic Theological Faculty of the University of Zagreb. He was elected several times a vice dean and from 1982 to 1986, dean of Faculty. He retired on October 1, 1993, and was elected Professor Emeritus on November 9, 2001.

[[Richard Dudman]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2017 deaths, American journalists, American political writers, Writers from Iowa, Writers from St. Louis, Missouri

Richard Beebe Dudman (May 3, 1918 – August 3, 2017) was an American journalist. He was born in Centerville, Iowa.

Dudman spent 31 years with the St. Louis Post-Dispatch during which time he covered Fidel Castro's rise in Cuba, the Assassination of John F. Kennedy, the invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs, the Watergate scandal, the Assassination attempt on Ronald Reagan, the Iran-Contra affair, and wars and revolutions in Latin America, the Middle East, and the Far East.

Dudman served as chief of the Washington bureau during the 1970s which landed him on the master list of Nixon political opponents.

Dudman died on August 3, 2017 in St. Louis, Missouri at the age of 99.

[[Ángel Nieto]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cerebral edema, Spanish sportspeople

Ángel Nieto Roldán (25 January 1947 – 3 August 2017) was a Spanish multiple Grand Prix motorcycle racing world champion. He was born in Zamora, Spain.

Nieto had one of the most successful motorcycle racing careers of all time, with 13 World Championships to his name, by means of several 50cc, 80cc and 125cc titles. He also competed on five occasions in  250cc races, of which he had finished in 5th place.

Nieto died on 3 August 2017 of cerebral edema after being hit by a car a week before in Ibiza, Spain at the age of 70.

[[Mariann Mayberry]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from ovarian cancer, Cancer deaths in Connecticut, American stage actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Missouri, Actors from Chicago, People from Springfield, Missouri

Mariann Mayberry (May 25, 1965 – August 1, 2017) was an American actress. She was born in Springfield, Missouri, though she was raised in Chicago, Illinois. She spent most of her career in Chicago performing at the Steppenwolf Theatre Company. She was known for her stage roles in August: Osage County and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. In movies, she was known for her role as Mother in the 2005 movie War of the Worlds.

Mayberry died of ovarian cancer at her sister's house in New Haven, Connecticut on August 1, 2017, at the age of 52.

[[Ann Robinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Ann Robinson (born May 25, 1929) is an American actress and stunt horse rider. She is best known for her work in the science-fiction classic The War of the Worlds and in the 1954 movie Dragnet.

Robinson was born in Hollywood, California. She studied at Hollywood High School. In 1987, she married Joseph Valdez.  They divorced in 2017.

[[How Long]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs

"How Long" is a recorded by American country music group Eagles. It was released in August 20, 2007 as the second single from seventh studio album Long Road Out of Eden.

[[Dickie Hemric]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Boston Celtics players, Sportspeople from North Carolina

Ned Dixon "Dickie" Hemric (August 29, 1933 – August 3, 2017) was an American collegiate and professional basketball player. He was born in Jonesville, North Carolina. He played for the Boston Celtics during his entire career from 1955 through 1957.

Hemric died on August 3, 2017 at his home in Akron, Ohio at the age of 83.

[[Consumer electronics]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics, Industries

Consumer electronics or home electronics are electronic equipment intended for use by everyday use, typically in private homes.

Some categories of consumer electronics include telephones, audio equipment, televisions, calculators, and playback and recording of video media such as DVD or VHS.

Many consumer electronics have planned obsolescence, resulting in E-waste.

[[Kristiansand]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Norway, Municipalities of Norway

Kristiansand is a municipality in Norway's Vest-Agder county. Kristiansand was created as a "city-municipality" bykommune in 1837.

[[Audi Cup 2017]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in association football, 2017 in Europe, 2010s in Munich, Audi Cup, August 2017 events

The Audi Cup 2017 (the fifth edition of the Audi Cup) was a two-day football tournament in Munich, Germany. The participating teams were Bayern Munich, Atlético de Madrid, S.S.C. Napoli and Liverpool.

[[Fideris]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Fideris is a municipality of the district of Davos in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Friesen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Friesen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Dover, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Dover is a city in Tuscarawas County, Ohio, United States. The population was 12,210 at the 2000 United States Census.

[[Mzuzu]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Malawi

Mzuzu is third largest city in Malawi. In 2008, 175,345 people lived there. It is the capital of the Northern Region. It is in Mzimba District.

[[Bartlow]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cambridgeshire, Civil parishes in Cambridgeshire

Bartlow is a small village and civil parish in the South Cambridgeshire district of Cambridgeshire in the United Kingdom. It is about 12 southeast of Cambridge and 7 west of Haverhill in Suffolk. The River Granta runs through the village.

[[Lorain County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1824 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Ohio

Lorain County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 301,356 people lived there. The county seat is Elyria.

[[East Cleveland, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

East Cleveland is a city in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, United States. The population was 17,843 at the 2010 census.

[[Elyria, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Elyria is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is the county seat of Lorain County. At the 2010 census, 54,533 people lived there. The city is named for its founder, Heman Ely.

[[Concord, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina

Concord is a city in North Carolina in the United States. It is the county seat of Cabarrus County.

[[Kiltimagh]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ireland, County Mayo

Kiltimagh (Coillte Mach) is a town in County Mayo, Ireland.

[[Agbado River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Africa, Geography of Benin

Agbado River is a river of Benin. It discharges into the Zou River at the Atchérigbé Classified Forest near Setto.

[[Luiz Melodia]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from bone marrow cancer, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian singers, Brazilian writers, Songwriters, Rock singers, People from Rio de Janeiro

Luiz Carlos dos Santos (January 7, 1951 – August 4, 2017), more commonly known as Luiz Melodia, was a Brazilian actor, singer and songwriter of MPB, rock, blues, soul and samba. He was born in Rio de Janeiro. In 2015, he won the 26th Brazilian Music Award for Best MPB Artist.

Melodia died on 4 August 2017 at the age of 66 in his hometown, Rio de Janeiro from bone marrow cancer.

[[Daniel Licht]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liposarcoma, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, American composers, Musicians from Massachusetts, Musicians from Detroit, Michigan

Daniel James Licht (March 13, 1957 – August 2, 2017) was an American movie composer and musician. He was born in Massachusetts and raised in Detroit, Michigan.

Licht was best known for composing the score for Showtime TV drama series, Dexter and for the movie Children of the Night. He was also known for composing the video game score of Silent Hill.

Licht died on August 2, 2017 in Los Angeles, California of liposarcoma at the age of 60.

[[Paul Stookey]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American folk singers, American folk musicians, American guitarists, American political activists, Singers from Baltimore, Maryland, Musicians from Baltimore, Maryland

Noel Paul Stookey (born December 30, 1937) is an American singer-songwriter. Stookey is known by his stage name, Paul, in the folk trio Peter, Paul and Mary. He has been known by his first name, Noel, throughout his life. He continues to work as a singer and an activist, performing as a solo artist, and occasionally performing with Peter Yarrow.

[[Mary Travers]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2009 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Deaths from surgical complications, Cancer deaths in Connecticut, American singer-songwriters, American folk singers, American pop singers, Writers from Louisville, Kentucky, Singers from Louisville, Kentucky

Mary Allin Travers (November 9, 1936 – September 16, 2009) was an American singer-songwriter and member of the folk music group Peter, Paul and Mary, along with Peter Yarrow and (Noel) Paul Stookey. Peter, Paul and Mary was one of the most successful folk-singing groups of the 1960s. 

Unlike most folk musicians of the early 1960s who were a part of the burgeoning music scene in the Village, Travers grew up there. She sang in the contralto range.

Travers died on September 16, 2009 from complications of bone marrow transplant due to leukemia in Danbury, Connecticut at the age of 72.

[[Maurice Gibb]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2003 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Florida, British singer-songwriters, British musicians, British pop singers, British pop musicians, British rock singers, British rock musicians, British pianists, Deaths from volvulus

Maurice Ernest Gibb, CBE (ˈ; 22 December 1949 – 12 January 2003) was a British singer, songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, and record producer. He was married to Scottish singer, Lulu, in 1969 but they split four years later.

[[Motor oil]]

CATEGORIES: Oils

Motor oil is a type of liquid oil used for lubrication by various kinds of motors, especially internal combustion engines. The main purpose of motor oil is to reduce friction against moving parts, which makes the motor last longer.

[[Arrondissement of Vierzon]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Vierzon is an arrondissement of France, in the Cher department, Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital, and subprefecture of the department, is the city of Vierzon.

[[Caulifla]]

CATEGORIES: Dragon Ball characters, Fictional characters introduced in the 2010s

Caulifla is a character of the Japanese anime series Dragon Ball Super. She is a Saiyan of Universe 6 in the Universal Survival Arc.

[[Roger Wootton]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, English scientists, British engineers

Leslie Roger Wootton (29 June 1944 – 5 July 2017) was an English aeronautical engineer and balloonist. He was dean of engineering for City University and in 1966 prepared a report on the aircraft maintenance industry for the British Civil Aviation Authority.

Wootton died on 5 July 2017 in London at the age of 73.

[[Stephen T. Worland]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, American economists, American educators, Writers from Indiana, Writers from Illinois

Stephen Thomas Worland Jr. (19 February 1923 – 29 July 2017) was an American economist. He was a professor at the University of Notre Dame. Worland was known for his works that included the history of economic thought, social economics, and welfare economics. 

Worland was the author of the book Scholasticism and Welfare Economics, published by the University of Notre Dame Press in 1967. He also authored the Economics and Justice chapter in the book Justice: Views from the Social Sciences, edited by Ronald L. Cohen and published by Springer in 1986.

Worland was born in Neoga, Illinois. He studied at the University of Illinois. Worland died on 29 July 2017 at his home in Columbus, Indiana at the age of 94.

[[Francesco La Macchia]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Italian sportspeople, Italian Olympic silver medalists

Francesco La Macchia (9 October 1938 – 31 July 2017) was an Italian sprint canoer who won a C-2 1000 m silver medal at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. He was born in Tonnarella, Messina.

La Macchia died on 31 July 2017 in Rome at the age of 78.

[[John Cunliffe]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2018 deaths, English children's writers, English television presenters, Writers from Lancashire, Actors from Lancashire

John Arthur Cunliffe (16 June 1933 – 20 September 2018) was an English children's book author and television presenter. He was born in Colne, Lancashire. He was known for creating the characters of Postman Pat and Rosie and Jim.

Cunliffe died on 20 September 2018, aged 85.

[[Ken Barrie]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from liver cancer, English musicians, English singers, English television actors, English voice actors, People from Stoke-on-Trent

Leslie Hulme (9 January 1933 – 29 July 2016), known professionally as Ken Barrie, was an English voice actor and singer. He was best known for narrating, and singing the theme tune of the BBC television programmes Postman Pat and Charlie Chalk. He was also responsible for providing the voices of several of the series' characters.

Barrie died at his home in Denham, Buckinghamshire on 29 July 2016 from liver cancer at the age of 83.

[[Shirley Fry Irvin]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, American tennis players, Sportspeople from Akron, Ohio, Sportspeople from Florida

Shirley June Fry Irvin (née Fry; June 30, 1927 – July 13, 2021) was a world No. 1 American tennis player. She was born in Akron, Ohio and raised in Winter Park, Florida. 

Irvin was one of ten to have won each Grand Slam singles tournament at least once during her career. She was also one of seven women to have won all four Grand Slam doubles tournaments.

Irvin was ranked in the world top 10 in 1946 and 1948 and from 1950 through 1955 (no rankings issued from 1940 through 1945), and #1 in 1956. The United States Lawn Tennis Association ranked her in the U.S. top 10 from 1944 through 1955 and #1 in 1956.  She was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1970.

Irvin died on July 13, 2021 under hospice care in Naples, Florida at the age of 94.

[[Borealopelta]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous dinosaurs, Ankylosauria

Borealopelta was a large armoured dinosaur. It was found in Alberta, Canada and is a nodosaurid ankylosaur. 

The osteoderms in its armour were in their life positions, with remains of their keratin sheaths and overlying skin. It may be the most complete ankylosaur ever found. Melanin found in its epidermis remains suggests it was camouflaged.

The report gives its estimated length as 5.5 metres and its estimated weight as about ~1,300 kg.

[[List of Indian scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists by nationality, Indian scientists

This is a list of noted scientists from India.

[[Dionigi Tettamanzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Italian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic archbishops

Dionigi Tettamanzi (14 March 1934 – 5 August 2017) was an Italian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He was named a cardinal in 1998. He was Archbishop of Genoa from 1995 to 2002 and Archbishop of Milan from 2002 to 2011.  He was born in Renate, Italy.

Tettamanzi was one of the cardinal electors who participated in the 2013 papal conclave that selected Pope Francis.

Tettamanzi died at his home in Triuggio, Italy on 5 August 2017 at the age of 83.

[[Marcelino Perelló Valls]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Mexican politicians, Mexican activists, Communists, Political activists, Writers from Mexico City

Marcelino Perelló Valls (1944 – 5 August 2017) was a Mexican activist and politician. He was born in Mexico City. He was a known figure of the Mexican Student Movement of 1968, and the representative of the School of Sciences of the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) to the National Strike Council (CNH). Perelló has been a member of the Mexican Communist Party (PCM) from 1965 until his death in 2017.

Perelló Valls died in Mexico City on 5 August 2017 at the age of 73.

[[Ty Hardin]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City

Orton or Orison Whipple Hungerford Jr., known as Ty Hardin (January 1, 1930 – August 3, 2017) was a former American actor. He was born in New York City. Hardin was best known as the star of the 1958 to 1962 ABC/Warner Brothers western television series Bronco.

Hardin died in Dallas, Texas on August 3, 2017 at the age of 87.

[[Irina Berezhna]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, 2017 deaths, Road accident deaths, Ukrainian politicians

Irina Berezhna, Russian: Irina Berezhnaya (13 August 1980 – 5 August 2017) was a Ukrainian politician. She was born in Luhansk, Ukraine. She member of Party of Regions (since October 2007), a former People's Deputy of Ukraine, member of the fraction of the Party of Regions.

Berezhna died in a car accident on the Adriatic coast on 5 August 2017 at the age of 36.

[[Filisur]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Filisur (Filisour) is a former municipality of the district Albula in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

The village  sits on a hillside with a view to the west where the two rivers Albula/Alvra from the Albula Pass and Landwasser from Davos meet.

On 1 January 2018 the former municipalities of Bergün/Bravuogn and Filisur merged into the new municipality of Bergün Filisur.

[[Vinzel]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Vinzel is a municipality in the district of Nyon in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

[[Frœningen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Frœningen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department in Alsace in north-eastern France.

[[Fulleren]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Fulleren is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Galfingue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Galfingue is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Martin Shkreli]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, American fraudsters, Businesspeople from New York City

Martin Shkreli (ˈ, born March 17, 1983) is an American businessman, former hedge fund manager and convicted fraudster. He is the co-founder of the hedge funds Elea Capital, MSMB Capital Management, MSMB Healthcare, co-founder and former chief executive officer (CEO) of the biotechnology firm Retrophin, and founder and former CEO of Turing Pharmaceuticals.

[[Luis Fonsi]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Puerto Rican singers, Guitarists, Songwriters, North American pianists, Puerto Rican actors

Luis Alfonso Rodríguez López-Cepero (born April 15, 1978), known by his stage name Luis Fonsi, is a Puerto Rican singer, songwriter and actor. He is best known for the hit song "Despacito" (2017). In January 2017, "Despacito" featuring Daddy Yankee was promoted and released. 

In 2011, Fonsi released the album Tierra Firme, and went on tour to promote it throughout Latin America.

On July 9, 2011, Billboard named Fonsi "Leader of Latin Music's New Generation".

On July 4, 2017, the music video has reached two billion views on YouTube, with the song becoming number one in nearly every Latin Billboard chart, and the most viewed video in the world. In August 2017, "Despacito" became the number one most viewed video on YouTube, with three billion views and counting.

As of 2018 he has broken six Guinness World Records and sold more than 11 million records with "Despacito".

After five years since "8", on 1 February 2019 his 10th studio album "Vida" was released. The track list contains "Despacito (Remix) ", "Échame la Culpa" and "Sola". The album topped the Billboard Top Latin Albums and Spanish album chart, and entered at number 18 of the Billboard 200.

In June 2018, Fonsi released the single "Calypso", with Stefflon Don. The song peaked at number 11 on the Hot Latin chart. On 2 November 2018, he collaborated on the track "Baby" by Clean Bandit from their second studio album. The song peaked at number 13 of Billboard Hot Dance/Electronic Songs and at number 15 of UK Singles Chart.

On 13 January 2019, the singer joined with Wisin, Alejandra Guzmán and Carlos Vives as coaches of the first Spanish season of La Voz by Telemundo.

[[Yèvre]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Centre-Val de Loire

The Yèvre is a river in central France. It is a right tributary of the Cher river. It flows through the Cher department in the Centre-Val de Loire region.

[[Julia Michaels]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from California, singers from California, Writers from California, Musicians from Iowa, Writers from Iowa, Singers from Iowa, American dancers, American pop singers, American pop musicians, American guitarists, American pianists, American singer-songwriters, people from Davenport, Iowa, 1993 births, living people

Julia Cavassos (better known as Julia Michaels; born November 13, 1993) is an American singer and songwriter. She is best known for her single "Issues". The song peaked at #11 on the United States Billboard Hot 100. It was marked double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).

Michaels' EP album, Nervous System, was released on July 28, 2017.

Her second single is "Uh Huh". This song was released on June 2, 2017.

Michaels said her inspirations were Fiona Apple, Laura Marling and Paramore.

Michaels was born in Davenport, Iowa. She later moved to Santa Clarita, California, a suburb of Los Angeles.

[[Subsidiary]]

CATEGORIES: Business

A subsidiary is a company that is controlled by its parent company. Even though a subsidiary works on its own, and its purposes are different from that of its parent company, the parent company is in control of its subsidiary.

A company's subsidiary is different from a company's division because a division works together with its parent company. A division's goal is usually similar to that of its parent company, and the division has to use its parent company's name. A subsidiary can use a name different from that of its parent company.

For example, YouTube is a subsidiary of Google, because Google is a search engine, while YouTube is a video sharing website. Google Videos is a division of Google, because Google Videos is a search engine that searches videos on the Internet. This is to match its parent company Google as a search engine. Also, YouTube has an entirely different name and logo from Google's, while Google Videos, as a division, must use Google's name and logo.

[[España Boulevard]]

CATEGORIES: Streets in Metro Manila

España Boulevard is an important road in Manila, the capital of the Philippines, that has 8 lanes (4 in each direction). It starts at a roundabout or traffic circle at the boundary of Quezon City and Manila and ends at a Y-shaped intersection with Lerma and Nicanor B. Reyes Streets in Manila. It is named after the Spanish name of Spain, the Philippines' colonial power for 333 years.

[[List of roads in Metro Manila]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in the Philippines, Metro Manila

This is an alpabetical list of important roads that are located in Metro Manila, the capital region of the Philippines. It also includes roads that have parts not located in the region, like neighboring provinces.

Roads in Metro Manila are usually classified into highways, avenues, and streets.

[[Jerome Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American physicians, Surgeon Generals of the United States, Scientists from New Jersey, People from Orange, New Jersey

Jerome Michael Adams (born September 22, 1974) is an American anesthesiologist. He was the 20th Surgeon General of the United States from September 2017 to January 2021.

Before assuming his current role, he served as the Indiana State Health Commissioner from 2014 to 2017. On June 29, 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Adams to become Surgeon General of the United States. Adams was confirmed by the United States Senate on August 3, 2017.

[[Erling Brøndum]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Danish politicians, Danish writers, Danish journalists

Erling Brøndum (11 July 1930 – 4 August 2017) was a Danish journalist and politician. He began at Bornholms Tidende as a reporter, and at age 26, was named chief editor. 

After fourteen years as the publication's editor, Brøndum joined the staff of the Horsens Folkeblad. In 1973, Poul Hartling named Brøndum Minister of Defence. He left the post in 1975, and returned to Horsens Folkeblad and the Aalborg Stiftstidende.

Brøndum died in Copenhagen, Denmark on 4 August 2017 at the age of 87.

[[Clayton Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Texas, American philanthropists, Politicians from Texas, Businesspeople from Texas, People from Midland, Texas, US Republican Party politicians

Clayton Wheat "Claytie" Williams Jr. (October 8, 1931 – February 14, 2020) was an American businessman and philanthropist.

Williams ran for state governor in 1990. Despite securing the Republican nomination and initially leading in the polls against Democratic challenger State Treasurer Ann Richards by twenty points, Williams ultimately lost the race.

[[William P. Hobby Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Lieutenant Governors of Texas, Politicians from Houston, Texas, US Democratic Party politicians

William Pettus “Bill” Hobby Jr. (born January 19, 1932) is an American Democratic politician who served a record eighteen years as the 37th Lieutenant Governor. 

Hobby Jr. held that office from January 16, 1973 to January 15, 1991 for five unprecedented terms, he was the last lieutenant governor to serve a two-year term and the first elected to a four-year term when the Texas Constitution was amended to lengthen terms for statewide elected officeholders to four years beginning with the 1974 elections. The principal duty of the Texas lieutenant governor is to preside over the Texas State Senate.

[[Amorsolo Street]]

CATEGORIES: Streets in Metro Manila

Amorsolo Street is a street located in the western part of Makati, the Philippines. It is located next to Chino Roces Avenue in the west. It is named after the famous Filipino painter and national artist Fernando Amorsolo.

[[Hollywood Steps Out]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, Looney Tunes, English-language movies

Hollywood Steps Out is a 1941 short Merrie Melodies cartoon by Warner Bros., directed by Tex Avery. The cartoon features caricatures by Ben Shenkman of Hollywood celebrities from the 1930s and early 1940s, including Cary Grant, Clark Gable, Wallace Beery, Bing Crosby, Greta Garbo, and Groucho Marx.

[[Escolta Street]]

CATEGORIES: Streets in Metro Manila

Escolta Street is historic west to east street in the downtown district of Binondo in Manila, the capital of the Philippines. It is very near to (and parallel to) Pasig River. It starts at Plaza Moraga to the west and ends at Plaza Santa Cruz and Quintin Paredes Street to the east. It contains some examples of early skyscraper design in the country.

The name of the street was derived from the Spanish word "escoltar", meaning "to escort" or "to accompany". It is known as calle de la Escolta in the Spanish language. It was built in 1594 and was the center of business and commerce in Metro Manila until the 1960s, when the center of business slowly moved to Makati.

[[Primary sector of the economy]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

The primary sector of the economy of a country is the first division of the economic sector. It includes agriculture, farming, mining, and fishing.

[[National Changhua University of Education]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Taiwan, 1745 establishments, Establishments in Taiwan

National Changhua University of Education (NCUE; 國立彰化師範大學) is a national research university located in Taiwan.The main campus is in Changhua County.It was founded in 1745.

[[Paysandú Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Uruguay, 1816 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Uruguay, 1810s establishments in South America

The Paysandú department (Departamento de Paysandú) is a department of Uruguay. The capital is the city of Paysandú.

Its ISO 3166-2 code  is UY-PA.

[[Payyanur]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kerala

Payyanur is a town and municipality in Kannur district in the state of Kerala in India. This municipality is formed by three administrative villages: Vellur, Korom and Payyanur. Other villages are: Annur and Kokkanissery. The town is on the banks of the Perumba River.

[[Kingdom of Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Kent

The Kingdom of Kent was a kingdom of the Jutes in southeast England.

[[Always Be My Baby]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 songs, 1996 songs, Mariah Carey songs, Pop songs, R&B songs

"Always Be My Baby" is a song by American singer and songwriter  Mariah Carey from her fifth studio album Daydream (1995). It was released by Columbia Records in March 9, 1996 as the third US single and fourth overall. The song was written by Carey, Jermaine Dupri and Manuel Seal. A mid-tempo song, "Always Be My Baby" became Carey's eleventh number one single on the Billboard 100.

[[Ana-Maria Avram]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, Romanian composers, People from Bucharest

Ana-Maria Avram (12 September 1961 – 1 August 2017) was a Romanian composer. Her works deal with the spectral music style. She represents with Iancu Dumitrescu the Hyper-Spectral trend in contemporary avant-garde music, conductor with Dumitrescu of the Hyperion Ensemble. She has composed around 90 works as of 2009: music for soloists, chamber music, music for orchestra, electronic music and computer-assisted music. She was born in Bucharest.

Avram died on 1 August 2017 at the age of 55.

[[Nicole Bricq]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Socialist Party (France) politicians

Nicole Bricq (ni.kɔl bʁik; 10 June 1947 – 6 August 2017) was a French politician. She was a member of the Senate of France, representing the Seine-et-Marne department. Bricq was a member of the Socialist Party. On 16 May 2012 she was appointed Minister of Ecology, Energy, and Sustainable Development in the government of Jean-Marc Ayrault.

Bricq was born in La Rochefoucauld, Charente. She studied at Montesquieu University.

On 6 August 2017, Bricq died from complications of a fall in Paris at the age of 70.

[[Martin Roth (museum director)]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2017 deaths, People from Stuttgart

Martin Roth (16 January 1955 – 6 August 2017) was a German museum director. He was Director General of the Dresden State Art Collections from 2001 to 2011 and Director of the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, England, from 2011 to 2016. He was born in Stuttgart, Germany.

Roth died in Berlin on 6 August 2017 at the age of 62.

[[Pushpa Mittra Bhargava]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Indian scientists, Indian writers

Pushpa Mittra Bhargava (22 February 1928 – 1 August 2017) was an Indian scientist, writer, and administrator. He founded the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, a federally funded research institute, in Hyderabad. He was outspoken and highly influential in the development of scientific temper in India, and argued that scientific rationalism needed to be cultivated as a civic duty.

Bhargava died on 1 August 2017, aged 89 at Hyderabad, India.

[[Santosh Mohan Dev]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Cancer deaths in India, Indian politicians

Santosh Mohan Dev (সন্তোষ মোহন দেব) (1 April 1934 – 2 August 2017), was a Indian political leader and a key member of the Indian National Congress. Dev was first elected to the Parliament in 1980, the first of his seven terms in office as the Member Of Parliament. Out of these seven, he has represented Silchar, Assam five times and he was elected from Tripura twice. He was born in Silchar, Assam Province, British India.

Dev died of stomach cancer on 2 August 2017 in Silchar at the age of 83.

[[Carmen de Lavallade]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American dancers, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Carmen de Lavallade (born March 6, 1931) is an American actress, dancer and choreographer. She was born in Los Angeles, California. She was married to Geoffrey Holder from 1955 until his death in 2014. 

She made her television debut in John Butler's ballet Flight, and in 1957 she appeared in the television production of Duke Ellington's A Drum Is a Woman. She appeared in several off-Broadway productions, including Othello and Death of a Salesman.

[[K. Alex Müller]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Swiss scientists, Physicists, Swiss educators

PhysicsKarl Alexander Müller (born April 20, 1927) is a Swiss physicist. He received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1987 with Georg Bednorz for their work in superconductivity in ceramic materials. They reported their discovery in the June 1986 issue of Zeitschrift für Physik B.

Müller joined the Battelle Memorial Institute in Geneva, soon becoming the manager of a magnetic resonance group. During this time he became a lecturer at the University of Zürich. 

[[Hinrich Lehmann-Grube]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, German mayors, Leipzig, People from former German territories, People from Kaliningrad, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany

Hinrich Lehmann-Grube (21 December 1932 – 6 August 2017) was a German politician. He served as Mayor of Leipzig from 1990 through 1998. He was a member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany. He was born in Königsberg (present day Kaliningrad, Russia).

Lehmann-Grube died in Leipzig of cancer on 6 August 2017 at the age of 84.

[[Love Takes Time]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 songs, Mariah Carey songs, Pop songs, Soul songs, R&B songs

"Love Takes Time" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Mariah Carey. It was written by Carey and Ben Margulies, and was produced by Walter Afanasieff for Carey's debut album, Mariah Carey (1990). It was released as the album's second single on July 9, 1990 through CBS Records. "Love Takes Time" became Carey's second Billboard Hot 100 number-one single.

[[Alexander Strider]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Alexander Strider is a single-decker step-entrance bus body built by Walter Alexander Coachbuilders from 1993 to 1997. It could be built on the Dennis Lance, Volvo B10B, Volvo B10M or Scania L113 chassis.

[[Designated survivor]]

CATEGORIES: Executive branch of the United States government

The designated survivor (also called designated successor) is a member of the US president's cabinet who goes to a remote, secure location at a time when all the government leadership is gathered in one place, such as during the State of the Union speech or a presidential inauguration. This is to make sure that the government will continue in case of some catastrophe that would result in harm to the President and many top elected officials at once.

The recent designated survivor is Sonny Perdue, President Donald Trump's Secretary of Agriculture, for the 2018 State of the Union Address.

[[Alexander PS type]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Alexander PS was a step-entrance single-decker bus body built by Walter Alexander Coachbuilders from 1980s to 1990s. It could be built on the Dennis Lance, Leyland Lynx, Mercedes-Benz O405, Scania N113, Volvo B10M or Iveco Turbocity chassis.

[[Río Negro Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Uruguay, 1880 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Uruguay

The Río Negro department (Departamento de Río Negro) is a department of Uruguay. The capital is the city of Fray Bentos.

Its ISO 3166-2 code  is UY-RN.

[[Mycoplasma amphoriforme]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria

Mycoplasma amphoriforme is a type of bacteria. It belongs in a larger group Mycoplasma. This group of bacteria do not have a cell like other bacteria. Because this bacteria does not have a cell wall medicines may not cure an infection with this bacteria. Penicillin  and other medications cannot cure this infection. There are other medications that will work. This group of bacteria are the  smallest ones discovered. These bacteria do not need oxygen.

This bacterium has been found in people who are sick. Some people who have lung infections and can not fight illnesses have an infection with this bacterium. It moves by gliding and has a pointed tip that looks the same as M. gallepticum, and M. pneumonia. If a person has an infection with this bacterium they might breathe fast and their hearts could beat fast.

[[Latching on (breastfeeding)]]

CATEGORIES: Breasts, Women, Babies

Latching on is how the the baby fastens to the breast while breastfeeding. A good latch helps the baby get milk. This happens when the bottom of the areola (the area around the nipple) is in the baby's mouth. When the nipple is far back inside the baby's mouth this is a good latch. A latch that is not good happens when the baby does not have enough of the breast in his/her mouth. A shallow or short latch causes the nipple skin to press against the hard bones in the top of the baby's mouth. That will cause cracked nipples on the mother. Cracked nipples are painful and can bleed.

[[De minimis]]

CATEGORIES: Law

De minimis is a legal term that means that small things do not matter in the law. The term is short for the Latin maxim (saying) de minimis non curat lex.

[[Betty Cuthbert]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple sclerosis, Disease-related deaths in Australia, Australian athletes, Sportspeople from New South Wales, People with multiple sclerosis

Elizabeth "Betty" Cuthbert AM, MBE (20 April 1938 – 7 August 2017) was an Australian athlete and a fourfold Olympic champion. She was born in Merrylands, New South Wales.

During her career, she set world records for 60 metres, 100 yards, 200 metres, 220 yards and 440 yards. She went to Ermington Public School which inspired and supported her to go in to the Olympics.August 2017 Cuthbert also contributed to Australian relay teams completing a win in the 4 × 100 metres, 4 × 110 yards, 4 × 200 metres and 4 × 220 yards. Cuthbert had a distinctive running style, with a high knee lift and mouth wide open.

Cuthbert died of complications from multiple sclerosis at her home in Mandurah, Western Australia on 7 August 2017 at the age of 79.

[[Darren Daulton]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Cancer deaths in Florida, Philadelphia Phillies players, Florida Marlins players, Sportspeople from Kansas, Writers from Kansas

Darren Arthur Daulton (January 3, 1962 – August 6, 2017), nicknamed Dutch, was an American professional baseball player who played catcher in Major League Baseball (MLB). He was a three-time MLB All-Star with the Philadelphia Phillies, and won a World Series with the Florida Marlins in 1997.

Daulton died from brain cancer on August 6, 2017 in Clearwater, Florida at the age of 55.

[[Ernst Zündel]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Germany, Deaths from myocardial infarction, German writers, Holocaust deniers, Neo-Nazis, People from Baden-Württemberg

Ernst Christof Friedrich Zündel (April 24, 1939 —August 5, 2017) was a German publisher and pamphleteer known for promoting Holocaust denial. He had been jailed several times: in Canada for publishing literature "likely to incite hatred against an identifiable group", and on charges of being a threat to national security; in the United States, for overstaying his visa; and in Germany for charges of "inciting racial hatred".

Zündel died at his home in Germany, of a suspected heart attack, on August 5, 2017.

[[Cracked nipples]]

CATEGORIES: Breasts

Cracked nipples can happen when a mother breastfeeds her infant and it can be very painful. This happens for many reasons. The nipples can hurt, dry, or bleed. When the baby is breastfeeding, the cracked nipple can cause great pain. Many times this severe pain will make the mother stop breastfeeding. The crack looks like a cut across the tip of the nipple. Cracked nipples can be treated and healed.

[[Don Baylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple myeloma, Cancer deaths in Texas, Baltimore Orioles players, Oakland Athletics players, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim players, New York Yankees players, Boston Red Sox players, Minnesota Twins players, Colorado Rockies, Chicago Cubs managers, African-American baseball players, Sportspeople from Austin, Texas

Donald Edward Baylor (June 28, 1949 – August 7, 2017) was an American professional baseball player and manager. During his 19 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB), Baylor was a power hitter known for crowding the plate, and was a first baseman, left fielder, and designated hitter.

Baylor played for six different American League (AL) teams, primarily the Baltimore Orioles and California Angels, but also played for the Oakland Athletics, New York Yankees, Minnesota Twins, and Boston Red Sox. In 1979, Baylor was an All-Star and won the AL Most Valuable Player Award.

Baylor won three Silver Slugger Awards, the Roberto Clemente Award, and was a member of the 1987 World Series champions.

After his playing career, Baylor managed the expansion Colorado Rockies for six years and the Chicago Cubs for three seasons. He was named NL Manager of the Year in 1995 and inducted into the Angels Hall of Fame.

Baylor died on August 7, 2017, at the age of 68 from multiple myeloma in Austin, Texas.

[[Haruo Nakajima]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Japanese movie actors

Haruo Nakajima (January 1, 1929 – August 7, 2017) was a Japanese actor. He was born in Yamagata. Nakajima was best known for portraying Godzilla from the 1950s through the early 1970s. Nakajima was Godzilla for 12 movies straight. He retired from acting in 1973.

Nakajima died on August 7, 2017 in Tokyo of pneumonia at the age of 88.

[[Bobby Morgan (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, Brooklyn Dodgers players, Philadelphia Phillies players, St. Louis Cardinals players, Chicago Cubs players, Sportspeople from Oklahoma City

Bobby Morris Morgan (born June 29, 1926) is an American former professional baseball infielder. He played eight seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) between 1950 and 1958 for the Brooklyn Dodgers, Philadelphia Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals, and Chicago Cubs. He retired in 1958.

Morgan was born in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

[[Julius W. Becton Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: Purple Heart recipients, 1926 births, Living people, American military people, American educators, People from Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, Writers from Pennsylvania

Julius Wesley Becton Jr. (born June 29, 1926) is an American military official. He is a retired United States Army lieutenant general. He served as Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) during the Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush presidencies from 1985 to 1989. He is also a education administrator. 

Becton went on to serve in the Korean War and the Vietnam War, eventually rising to the rank of lieutenant general in 1978 and command of VII Corps in Europe during the Cold War. Becton retired from the U.S. Army in 1983, after nearly 40 years of service.

His autobiography, Becton: Autobiography of a Soldier and Public Servant, was published in 2008 by Naval Institute Press. 

[[Gary Cohn]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Politicians from Cleveland, Ohio, Directors of the National Economic Council, Businesspeople from Cleveland, Ohio, US Democratic Party politicians

Gary David Cohn (born August 27, 1960) is an American investment banker and political figure. He is the chief economic advisor to President Donald Trump and Director of the National Economic Council. He was formerly the president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs from 2006 to 2017. Cohn is a registered Democrat, but has donated extensively to Republican politicians as well.

Cohn was thought to be one of the most influential voices in the Trump administration. On March 6, 2018, it was reported that Cohn planned to resign from his position in the coming weeks.

[[Carl Panzram]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1930 deaths, American serial killers, Executed American serial killers, People executed by hanging, People from Minnesota

Carl Panzram (June 28, 1891 - September 5, 1930) was an American serial killer who was hanged for murder. He served time under his own name and various aliases in Fresno, California; Rusk, Texas; The Dalles, Oregon; Harrison, Idaho; Butte, Montana; Montana State Reform School in Miles City; Montana State Prison (as "Jeff Davis" #4194 #3194 and "Jefferson Rhodes" #4396); Oregon State Prison ("Jefferson Baldwin" #7390); Bridgeport, Connecticut ("John O'Leary"); Sing Sing Correctional Facility, New York ("John O'Leary" #75182); Clinton Correctional Facility, New York ("John O'Leary" #75182); and Washington, D.C (Carl Panzram #33379) and Leavenworth, Kansas (Carl Panzram #31614). While incarcerated, Panzram frequently attacked guards and refused to follow their orders. The guards retaliated, subjecting him to beatings and other punishments.

[[Yoshio Tsuchiya]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Japanese movie actors, Japanese writers

Yoshio Tsuchiya is a Japanese actor. He appeared in such movies as Toshio Matsumoto's surreal Bara No Soretsu (a.k.a. Funeral Parade of Roses) and Akira Kurosawa's Seven Samurai (as the firebrand farmer Rikichi) and Red Beard, and Kihachi Okamoto's Kill!.  

He has a long-standing interest in UFOs and had written several books on the subject. He preferred starring in science fiction movies, usually as aliens, or people possessed by them, in such movies as Battle in Outer Space, Monster Zero, and Destroy All Monsters. 

[[Katsumi Tezuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, Living people, Japanese movie actors, Japanese centenarians

Katsumi Tezuka (born August 31, 1912) is a Japanese actor. He is best known for playing monsters in several Toho science fiction and horror movies directed by Ishirō Honda. He played Godzilla, alongside Haruo Nakajima, in the 1954 movie Godzilla.

[[Akira Takarada]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Japanese movie actors, Japanese television actors

Akira Takarada is a Japanese movie actor. He is most known in the west for his roles in the Godzilla movie series. He appeared in the 2014 American reboot of the franchise. He also appeared in Half Human (1955), The Last War (1961), Frankenstein Conquers the World (1965), King Kong Escapes (1967), and Latitude Zero (1969).

[[Yukiko Shimazaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Actors from Tokyo

Yukiko Shimazaki is a Japanese actress and singer. She appeared in more than twenty movies from 1950 to 1964. She was married to director Tatsumi Kumashiro from 1955 to 1967. Her best known roles were in Repast (1951) and in Seven Samurai (1954).

[[Río Negro (Uruguay)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Uruguay, Rivers of Brazil

The Río Negro (Black River) is the most important river in Uruguay.is a river in central France. It is a left tributary of the Uruguay river. It starts in southern Brazil and flows west across the entire width of Uruguay to the Uruguay River.

The course of the Río Negro across Uruguay effectively divides the south of the country from the north.

[[Sigmund Sobolewski]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, People with Alzheimer's disease, Activists, Polish educators, Holocaust survivors

Sigmund Sobolewski (ˈɕiɡmunt sɔbɔˈlɛfskʲi) (May 11, 1923 – August 7, 2017) was a Polish activist, lecturer and Holocaust survivor. He was the 88th prisoner to enter Auschwitz on the very first transport to the concentration camp on June 14, 1940. He remained a prisoner for four and a half years during World War II. He was a critic of Holocaust denial and was known for having confronted modern neo-Nazis, anti-Semites and Holocaust deniers. 

[[Kyōko Kagawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Actors from Tokyo

Kyōko Kagawa is a Japanese actress. She is known for her roles in movies like Tokyo Story, Sansho the Bailiff and High and Low. She has appeared in 118 movies. Her most recent movie was Ballad in 2009.

In late 2011, the National Museum of Modern Art, Tokyo, honored her long career and her contribution to Japanese cinema with an exhibition titled 'Kyoko Kagawa, Film Actress'.

[[La Plata, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Maryland, County seats in Maryland

La Plata is a city in Charles County, Maryland, United States. In 2010, 8,753 people lived there. It is the county seat of Charles County and home of the Charles County Courthouse.

La Plata was hit by two tornadoes, one in November 1926 that killed 13 people at La Plata Elementary School, and another in April 2002.

[[Annie Cordy]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Belgian movie actors, Belgian singers, Comedians, Dancers, Deaths from cardiac arrest

Baroness Léonie Cooreman, known under the stage name Annie Cordy (16 June 1928 – 4 September 2020) was a Belgian movie actress and singer. She appeared in 50 movies beginning in 1954. 

She staged many memorable appearances at Bruno Coquatrix' famous Paris Olympia. Her version of "La Ballade de Davy Crockett" was number 1 in the charts for five weeks in France in August 1956.

Cordy died on 4 September 2020 from cardiac arrest in Vallauris, France, aged 92.

[[Amir Fryszer Guttman]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths by drowning, Israeli singers, LGBT singers, People from Haifa

Amir Fryszer Guttman (April 25, 1976 – July 23, 2017) was an Israeli singer, musician, choreographer, actor, and theater director. He died from drowning after being swept away with his niece, whom he had held above water; his niece survived.

[[Jerry Tarbot]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1972 deaths

Jerry Tarbot was an American conman who claimed he was an amnesia victim of World War I. On April 10, 1926 The Healdsburg Tribune published on article/photograph on Tarbot calling him the "sliding ghost" of World War I.

[[Princess Superstar]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, American Jews, American rap musicians from New York, Hip hop musicians, Electronic musicians, Living people

Concetta Kirschner (born February 25, 1971), better known as Princess Superstar, is an American rapper and DJ. She is best known for her hit songs "Baby Babysitter" (2001) and "Perfect" (2005).

She calls her music "flip-flop" which is a mixture of hip hop and electronica. In summer 2014 she had her reality television show "I Love Princess Superstar" on her YouTube account.

[[USS Robalo]]

CATEGORIES: Naval ships of the United States

The USS Robalo (SS-273)  was a Gato class submarine of the US Navy in World War II. The submarine went on three patrols.

[[West Creek Township, Lake County, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Indiana

West Creek Township is one of eleven townships in Lake County, Indiana. When counted at 2010, its population was 6,826 people and it had 2,664 houses.

[[National Super Alliance]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments, Politics of Africa, Establishments in Africa

The National Super Alliance, known by the abbreviation NASA, is a Kenyan political coalition that was formed in January 2017 by opposition parties. These parties include the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), Wiper Democratic Movement (Wiper), Forum for the Restoration of Democracy - Kenya (FORD-Kenya), Amani National Congress (ANC), National Rainbow Coalition, Progressive Party of Kenya, CCU, Muungano and other parties.

In the 2017 General Elections the flagbearer of the coalition will be Raila Amollo Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka. They'll be seeking to oust incumbent president Uhuru Kenyatta.

[[Nankai University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in the People's Republic of China, 1919 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in China

Nankai University or NKU (simplified Chinese: 南开大学; traditional Chinese: 南開大學;), is a famous university in Tianjin, China. It was founded by Yan Xiu and Zhang Boling in 1919. The first Premier of the People's Republic of China Zhou Enlai graduated from Nankai University.

[[Arrondissements of the Loir-et-Cher department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Loir-et-Cher department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Loir-et-Cher are:

[[Fläsch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Fläsch is a municipality of the district Landquart in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Kuzakai Station]]

CATEGORIES: Iwate Prefecture, Railway stations in Iwate Prefecture

Kuzakai Station is a train station in Miyako, Iwate Prefecture, Japan.

[[Dobra, Bolesławiec County]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Dobra is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Bolesławiec in Bolesławiec County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship in southwestern Poland. It is approximately 4 west of Bolesławiec, and 108 west of the regional capital Wrocław.

[[Geishouse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Geishouse is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Dejan Miladinović]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, People from Belgrade

Dejan Miladinović, (Дејан Миладиновић; 2 December 1948 – 3 August 2017) was a Serbian opera director. He was born in Belgrade, former Yugoslavia. Miladinović has served as Principal Stage Director and two times as Artistic Director of the National Opera of Novi Sad. He has also served as Director and Artistic Councilor for "Grand Opera Projects" with Convention Centre "Sava" in Belgrade.

Miladinović died in Belgrade on 3 August 2017 at the age of 68.

[[Patsy Ticer]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, American mayors, Politicians from Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Alexandria, Virginia

Patricia Smith "Patsy" Ticer (January 6, 1935 – August 7, 2017) was an American politician. She was born in Alexandria, Virginia. She was a member of the Democratic Party. Ticer served on the City Council of Alexandria, Virginia in the 1980s. She then served as Mayor of Alexandria from 1991 to 1996. Ticer served in the Senate of Virginia from 1996 until her retirement in 2011.

Ticer died in a hospital in Alexandria, Virginia from complications from a fall on August 7, 2017 at the age of 82.

[[Gonzague Saint Bris]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Road accident deaths, French novelists, French journalists

Gonzague Saint Bris (16 January 1948 – 8 August 2017) was a French award-winning novelist, biographer and journalist. He won the 2002 Prix Interallié for Les Vieillards de Brighton. He was the founder of La Forêt des livres, an annual book festival, and the Cabourg Film Festival. He was born in Loches, Indre-et-Loire.

Saint Bris was killed in a car crash on 8 August 2017 in Saint-Hymer, Calvados at the age of 69.

[[Cluster analysis]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

Clustering or cluster analysis is a type of data analysis. The analyst groups objects so that objects in the same group (called a cluster) are more similar to each other than to objects in other groups (clusters) in some way. This is a common task in data mining.

[[Dick MacPherson]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, American football coaches, Sportspeople from Maine

Richard Francis "Dick" MacPherson (November 4, 1930 – August 8, 2017) was an American football coach. 

He was born in Old Town, Maine. He served as the head coach at the University of Massachusetts Amherst from 1971 to 1977 and at Syracuse University from 1981 to 1990. 

[[Mercedes-Benz TN]]

CATEGORIES: Buses, Vans, Mercedes-Benz automobiles

The Mercedes-Benz TN (Transporter Ne, Internally called T1) were vans and minibuses built by Mercedes-Benz from 1977 to 1995. it was available as a box van, a flat bed light truck or a minibus.

[[Arrondissement of Blois]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Blois is an arrondissement of France, in the Loir-et-Cher department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Blois.

[[Annie Up]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums

Annie Up is the second studio album by Pistol Annies. The album was released on May 7, 2013 through RCA Records Nashville.

[[Arrondissement of Vendôme]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Vendôme is an arrondissement of France, in the Loir-et-Cher department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Vendôme.

[[Eugenio Martínez]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2021 deaths, American criminals, Businesspeople from Miami, Florida

Eugenio Rolando Martínez (alias Musculito, July 8, 1922 – January 30, 2021) was an American real estate agent who was a member of the anti-Castro movement in the early 1960s, and later was one of the five men recruited by G. Gordon Liddy and E. Howard Hunt in 1972 for the Memorial Day weekend Watergate burglary at the Democratic National Committee (DNC) headquarters in Washington, D.C. After completing his prison term, Martinez was pardoned by President Ronald Reagan in 1983.

Martínez died on January 30, 2021 in Minneola, Florida at the age of 98.

[[Alexander Butterfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, American military people, Businesspeople from Florida, Politicians from Florida, People from Pensacola, Florida

Alexander Porter Butterfield (born April 6, 1926) is a U.S. military officer, public servant, and businessman. He served as the deputy assistant to President Richard Nixon from 1969 to 1973.

Butterfield revealed the existence of the White House taping system on July 13, 1973, during the Watergate scandal investigation, but had no involvement in the scandal. From 1973 to 1975, he served as administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.

[[Arrondissement of Romorantin-Lanthenay]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Romorantin-Lanthenay is an arrondissement of France, in the Loir-et-Cher department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Romorantin-Lanthenay.

[[Shahid Khaqan Abbasi]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Pakistan

Shahid Khaqan Abbasi (Urdu/شاہد خاقان عباسی; born 27 December 1958) is a Pakistani politician who was the Prime Minister of Pakistan, from August 1, 2017 to May 31, 2018. He is a member of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League (N) (PML-N).

Abbasi served as the Minister for Petroleum and Natural Resources in the third Sharif ministry from 2013 to 2017, and briefly held the cabinet portfolio of Minister for Commerce in the Gillani ministry in 2008.

On 1 August 2017, Abbasi was elected Prime Minister of Pakistan after the resignation of outgoing Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif after Panama Papers case decision.

[[United States Army trucks]]

In 1915, the US Army started testing trucks that were made to go off-road to see if they could replace horses and mules.  Since then, the Army has built many different kinds of trucks or had private companies build trucks for them.

[[Operation Sentinelle]]

CATEGORIES: National security, Military of France

Operation Sentinelle is a counter-terrorism mission of the French army. It was put in place in January 2015 after the attacks against the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and the supermarket Hyper Casher.

It was the President of the French Republic, François Hollande, who took the decision to create it and his successor Emmanuel Macron extended it.

All the units of the French army but also of the French Air Force and the French Navy participate in Operation Sentinelle. It results in a massive presence of French soldiers in the streets, public places and public transport, in reinforcement of the police and the gendarmerie.

Their function is to provide surveillance and dissemination of jihadist threats.

[[Grumman S-2 Tracker]]

CATEGORIES: United States Navy aircraft, Vietnam War aircraft, Grumman aircraft

The Grumman S-2 Tracker is an american military aircraft built for operations against soviets submarines of the Cold War. Grumman sold it at various foreign countries like Brazil, Japan, or Turkey.

The Conair Firecat is a water bomber variant built in Canada.

[[Nord N-3202]]

CATEGORIES: French military aircraft, Nord aircraft

The Nord N-3202 is a French military training light aircraft. It was used only by the French Army.

[[Data collection]]

CATEGORIES: Knowledge

Data collection is the task of gathering and measuring data (information) in an orderly or systematic way. Researchers follow a formal plan for data collection to ensure that the information they collect has clear definitions, and is accurate. If you do not have clearly defined, accurate information, decisions you make using that information will not have validity.  

[[List of Kenyan scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists by nationality, Kenyan scientists

This is a list of noted scientists from Kenya.

[[Wojciech Krzemiński]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Polish scientists, Astronomers, Polish educators, People from Warsaw

Wojciech Krzemiński (20 May 1933–5 August 2017) was a Polish astronomer and a retired professor of Nicolaus Copernicus Astronomical Center of Polish Academy of Sciences. He worked many years for the Carnegie Institution for Science Observatories. Krzemiński also discovered the optical companion of X-ray pulsar Centaurus X-3, which was named Krzemiński's Star in his honor.

He was also one of the first astronomers who correctly interpreted the nature of polar stars like AM Herculis.

Krzemiński died on 5 August 2017 in Warsaw at the age of 84.

[[Marián Varga]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Slovakian people, Composers, Organists

Marián Varga (January 29, 1947 – August 8, 2017) was a Slovak musician, composer and organ player. He was born in Skalica, Czechoslovakia.

In 1979, he began a solo career. Among other achievements, he became a pioneer of absolute improvisation (real-time composition) in Slovakia. In the meantime he continued to contribute to popular music. His work with Pavol Hammel led to five successful albums and to the first rock musical in Slovakia.

[[Loir]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Centre-Val de Loire, Pays de la Loire

The Loir is a river in central France. It is a left tributary of the Sarthe. It flows through two regions of France: Centre-Val de Loire and Pays de la Loire

The Eure-et-Loir and Loir-et-Cher departments are named after this river.

[[Vendôme]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Loir-et-Cher

Vendôme is a commune in central French, and is a subprefecture in the Loir-et-Cher department. It is also the capital of the arrrondissement of Vendôme and the administrative centre of the Vendôme canton.

Vendôme is one of the main towns along the Loir river. It is the third largest city of the department after Blois and Romorantin-Lanthenay.

[[Nyanzapithecus alesi]]

CATEGORIES: Apes

Nyanzapithecus alesi was an ape that lived thirteen million years ago in Africa.  A complete skull of an infant was  recovered and reported in 2017.

Scientists say it is from around the time when apes originated.

[[Questacon]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in Australia

Questacon – the National Science and Technology Centre is on the southern shore of Lake Burley Griffin, an artificial lake in Canberra, ACT, Australia. 

It has more than 200 interactive exhibits relating to science and technology. It was designed to expose children to science. It is suitable for visitors of all ages.

[[Krzysztof Książek]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Polish pianists, People from Kraków, Polish composers

Krzysztof Książek (born 5 August 1992) is a Polish classical pianist. He was born in Krakow, Poland. He is a winner of highest prizes at national and international piano competitions. His nomation is Polityka Passport Award for Classical Music. Since 2005, he has trained with Stefan Wojtas, first at music secondary school, now as a student of the Feliks Nowowiejski Academy of Music in Bydgoszcz. He has won prizes in Polish and international competitions, including the Ricard Vines in Leida, Spain, the Lviv international competitions in Ukraine, the "Città di Avezzano" in Italy (2011, First Prize) and the Polish Frédéric Chopin Piano Competition in Warsaw (2011, Third Prize; 2015, Second Prize ex aequo), XV International Pianist Ricard Vines (Lleida, Spain 2009), The International Chopin Piano Competition (Lviv, Ukraine 2010), VI Concorso Internazionale Pianistico "Citta di Avezzano" (Avezzano, He participated in the 67th International Chopin Festival in Duszniki-Zdrój, the 18th International Festival of Young Winners of Silesian Music Contests, 5th National Promotion Festival "August Talents" He is a scholarship recipient of the "Sapere Auso" Malopolska Foundation, the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, and the Pro Musica Bona Foundation.

On his preliminary round he was admitted as ex-aequo winner of the 2nd Prize on the 2015 Polish National Fryderyk Chopin Piano Competition in Warsaw. He was stopped in the third stage of the XVII International Chopin Piano Competition in 2015. Although Krzysztof Książek was not qualified for the finals of the Chopin Competition, Andrzej Sułek believes that his name may return to the competition in those days.

[[Rudno, Lesser Poland Voivodeship]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Rudno is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Krzeszowice in Kraków County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship in southern Poland. It is approximately 6 southwest of Krzeszowice and 26 west of the regional capital Kraków.

[[Fendels]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Tyrol (state)

Fendels is a municipality in the district Landeck in the Austrian state of Tyrol. It is 13 km south of Landeck on the upper course of the Inn River.

[[Flerden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Flerden (Flearda) is a municipality of the district Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Breithorn]]

CATEGORIES: Alps, Mountains of Italy, Mountains of Switzerland, Geography of Valais

The Breithorn is a mountain range of the Pennine Alps with its highest peak of the same name (but also called Breithorn (Western Summit)). It is on the border between Switzerland and Italy. It lies on the main chain of the Alps. It is a halfway between the Matterhorn and Monte Rosa and east of the Theodul Pass. The nearest settlements are Zermatt (Valais) and St-Jacques (Aosta Valley).

The Breithorn was first climbed in 1813 by Henry Maynard (climber), Joseph-Marie Couttet, Jean Gras, Jean-Baptiste Erin and Jean-Jacques Erin.

[[Eastlake, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Eastlake is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is in Lake County.

[[Lake County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in Ohio, 1840 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Lake County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 230,041 people lived there. The county seat is Painesville.

[[Geispitzen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Geispitzen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Geiswasser]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Geiswasser is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

It is 6 km south of Breisach and 25 km southeast of Colmar.

[[Pizza Delivery (SpongeBob SquarePants)]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants episodes, 1999 television episodes

"Pizza Delivery" is the first part of the 5th episode of SpongeBob SquarePants. It was first broadcast on Nickelodeon on August 14, 1999. The episode is about SpongeBob and Squidward delivering a pizza in a desert.

[[Rock Bottom (SpongeBob SquarePants)]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants episodes, 2000 television episodes

"Rock Bottom" is the 2nd part of the 17th episode of SpongeBob SquarePants. It was first broadcast on Nickelodeon on March 15, 2000. The episode is about SpongeBob getting stuck in a dark city named Rock Bottom. The episode was watched by about 2.1 million people when it was first broadcast. 

[[Heinz F. Dressel]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, German theologians, German historians, Writers from Bavaria

Heinz Friedrich Dressel (28 September 1929 – 4 August 2017) was a German theologian and writer. He was born in Marktredwitz, Germany. His work focused on human rights and the history of Brazil. He wrote many books about the history of Latin America and views of Christianity. 

Dressel died on 4 August 2017 in Nuremberg, Germany at the age of 87.

[[Rius]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Political activists, Cartoonists, Mexican writers

Eduardo Humberto del Río García (June 20, 1934 – August 8, 2017), better known by his pen name Rius, was a Mexican intellectual, political cartoonist and writer. He was born in Zamora, Michoacán. He was a supporter of the Cuban revolution and was a strong critic of Fidel Castro's rule. His best known works were Cuba for Beginners and It's a Pity, Cuba.

Rius died on 8 August 2017 in Cuernavaca, Morelos at the age of 83.

[[Cuernavaca]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Mexico, Municipalities of Mexico

Cuernavaca (Cuernavaca.ogg; "near the woods", Kuaujnawak.ogg) is the capital and largest city of the state of Morelos in Mexico. It was established by the Olmec, "the mother culture" of Mesoamerica, approximately 3,200 years ago and is designated as the archaeological site of Gualupita I . The city is located south of Mexico City, from which it may be reached after a drive of approximately 1½ hours using the D-95 Freeway.

[[Giancarlo Giannini]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Actors who played in James Bond movies, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian voice actors

Giancarlo Giannini (dʒaŋˈkarlo dʒanˈniːni; born 1 August 1942) is an Italian actor and voice-over artist. In 1976, he starred in Seven Beauties, for which he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor. He dubbed Jack Nicholson's voice in the Italian release of both The Shining and Batman; he is the official Italian dubber of Al Pacino.

In 2009, Giannini received a star on the Italian Walk of Fame in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

[[List of communes of the Province of Rieti]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Lazio, Lists of settlements in Europe

The following is a list of the 73 comuni of the Province of Rieti, Lazio, in Italy.

[[Patricio Echegaray]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Argentine politicians, Communists

Patricio Echegaray (17 October 1946 – 9 August 2017) was an Argentine politician. He was born in San José de Jáchal, Argentina. He served as Secretary General of the Communist Party of Argentina from 1986 until his death in 2017. Before, he served as the 26th Secretary General of the Juvenile Communist Federation from 1980 through 1985.

Echegaray died of pancreatic cancer on 9 August 2017 in Buenos Aires at the age of 70.

[[Ken Roberts (rugby league)]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, English rugby union players, Sportspeople from Lancashire

Kenneth "Ken" Roberts (died 8 August 2017) was an English professional rugby league footballer. He played in the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, playing at representative level for Great Britain and Lancashire, and at club level for Swinton, Halifax, Bradford Northern, Rochdale Hornets and Salford.

Roberts was born in Atherton, Lancashire. He died on 8 August 2017.

[[Janet Seidel]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from ovarian cancer, Cancer deaths in Sydney, Australian singers, Australian musicians, Australian educators, Jazz pianists

Janet Seidel (28 May 1955 – 8 August 2017) was an Australian singer, pianist and educator. She was born in Cummins, South Australia.

Her albums, recorded with her brother bassist David Seidel, have been nominated for prizes such as the ARIA Music Awards. Her album Moon of Manakoora won the Bell Award for Best Australian Jazz Vocal Album in 2006. She was a music teacher at Sydney Girls High School.

Seidel died on 8 August 2017 from ovarian cancer at her home in Sydney, New South Wales at the age of 62.

[[Ruth Pfau]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Physicians, Activists, Nuns, Pakistani people, People from Leipzig

Sister Dr Ruth Katherina Martha Pfau (9 September 1929 – 10 August 2017) was a German-Pakistani physician and nun of the Society of Daughters of the Heart of Mary. She devoted nearly 50 years of her life to fighting leprosy in Pakistan. She was born in Leipzig, Germany. She founded the Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre. 

In 2015, Pfau was awarded the Staufer Medal - the highest award of the German state of Baden-Württemberg.

Pfau died at a hospital in Karachi, Pakistan on 10 August 2017 from complications of heart disease at the age of 87.

[[2016 United States presidential election in West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: History of West Virginia, 2016 United States presidential election by state

The 2016 United States presidential election in West Virginia was held on 8 November 2016. It was part of the 2016 United States presidential election, in which all other states plus the District of Columbia voted.

On 10 May 2016, the state also voted for who they wanted to be the nominee of their respective parties.

[[Otto Schenk]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Austrian movie actors, Austrian stage actors, Austrian movie directors, Actors from Vienna

Otto Schenk (born June 12, 1930) is an Austrian actor, and theater and opera director. He was born in Vienna, Austria. His career began in 1953. Schenk has appeared in over 30 movies (mostly in German). He is known for his lavish, realist, traditionalist stagings at the Metropolitan Opera, most notably his production of Richard Wagner's four-opera epic Der Ring des Nibelungen. 

Schenk is currently starring in the stage adaptation of Lily Brett's Chuzpe at the Kammerspiele Theatre in Vienna.

Schenk is known for his movie roles in Always Trouble with the Reverend (1972) and in Reigen (1973). His best known stage role was in Arabella (1977).

[[Jacob Rothschild, 4th Baron Rothschild]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Bankers, British billionaires, British businesspeople, British philanthropists, British Jews, Jewish billionaires, Jewish businesspeople, Jewish philanthropists

Nathaniel Charles Jacob Rothschild, 4th Baron Rothschild OM GBE (born 29 April 1936) is a British investment banker and philanthropist of Jewish descent. He is a member of the prominent Rothschild banking family. He is also Honorary President of the Institute for Jewish Policy Research. His net worth is at US $5 billion as of 2015.

Rothschild is a known philanthropist who donates his money to art and culture centers. He was Chairman of Trustees of the National Gallery from 1985 to 1991, and from 1992 to 1998, chairman of the National Heritage Memorial Fund.

[[2016 United States presidential election in New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: History of New Mexico, 2016 United States presidential election by state

The 2016 United States presidential election in New Mexico was held on 8 November 2016. It was part of the 2016 United States presidential election, in which all other states plus the District of Columbia voted.

On 7 June 2016, the state also voted for who they wanted to be the nominee of their respective parties.

[[2016 United States presidential election in Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s in Arizona, 2016 United States presidential election by state

The 2016 United States presidential election in Arizona was held on 8 November 2016. It was part of the 2016 United States presidential election, in which all other states plus the District of Columbia voted.

On 22 March and 5 April 2016, the state also voted for who they wanted to be the nominee of their respective parties.

[[List of largest stars]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of stars

Below is a list of the largest stars,  so far discovered, ordered by radius. The unit of measurement used is the radius of the Sun (696,392 km; 432,717.927 mi).

[[Choe Yong-rim]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, North Korean politicians

Choe Yong-rim (KCNA: Choe Yong Rim, Korean: 최영림, born 20 November 1930) was the Premier (naegak ch’ongri, 내각 총리) of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (commonly known as North Korea) from June 2010 to April 2013 and Workers' Party of Korea central committee presidium member since September 2010.

Choe has been described by The New York Times as a "KWP insider" and a "friend of Kim Jong-Il's family." He is honorary vice-president of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, the country's parliament.

[[Klosterneuburg]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Lower Austria

Klosterneuburg is an Austrian town in the Tulln District in the Industrieviertel region of Lower Austria. It had about 27,000 people in 2016.

Klosterneuburg lies almost entirely south of the Danube River and borders the city of Vienna in the southeast. 

It is well-known for its winegrowing.

[[Velino]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Italy

The Velino is a river in central Italy that flows through the Lazio and Umbria regions but flows mainly through the Lazio region. It is the main tributary of the Nera river which is tributary of the Tiber river.

[[Rieti]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Italy, Cities in Lazio

Rieti is a comune and city in the Lazio region, in central Italy. Rieti is the capital of the province of Rieti and of the historical region of Sabina.

[[Francisco Núñez Olivera]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 2018 deaths, Spanish military people, Spanish supercentenarians

Francisco Núñez Olivera (13 December 1904 – 29 January 2018), age 113 years, 47 days, for a brief time was recognized as the oldest man in the world. He was born at Extremadura, and joined the army at 19 to fight in the Rif War.

Núñez Olivera had his kidney removed when he was 90 and a cataract operation aged 98, and is a veteran of the Spanish Civil War. He was nicknamed "Marchena" after Pepe Marchena, due to his resemblance to the singer. With the death of Israeli supercentenarian Yisrael Kristal on 11 August 2017, Núñez became the worlds oldest living man. He died on 29 January 2018.

[[What About Us]]

CATEGORIES: Pink songs, 2017 songs, Dance songs, Ballads, Dance-pop songs

"What About Us" is a song by American singer-songwriter Pink, taken from her seventh studio album, Beautiful Trauma.  The song was released on August 10, 2017, along with the preorder of Beautiful Trauma.  The song is a dance ballad that speaks of people who are forgotten or left out.

The song reached number one in Australia and Switzerland, while reaching the top twenty around the world. It reached number three in the UK, number six in Canada, and number 13 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the US.

It was certified platinum in the US for sales and shipments of one million copies there.

[[Eberhard von Koerber]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, German businesspeople, People from Lower Saxony

Eberhard "Ebbo" von Koerber (11 June 1938 – 3 August 2017) was a German manager. He was a member of the Board of Management of BMW. He was responsible for sales and marketing from 1984 to 1986. Between 1988 and 1998, he was responsible for the activities of Asea Brown Boveri in Europe, the Middle East and Africa as Vice President of the Group Executive in Zurich. From 2007 to 2012, he was co-president of the Club of Rome.

Von Koerber died on 3 August 2017 at the age of 79.

[[Waldemar Schreckenberger]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, German academics, German lawyers, People from Ludwigshafen, Politicians from Rhineland-Palatinate, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany

Waldemar Schreckenberger (12 November 1929 – 4 August 2017) was a German lawyer, professor emeritus, and  politician. He was born in Ludwigshafen. He was a member of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany (CDU).

From 1981 to 1982, he served as Minister of Justice of Rhineland-Palatinate and thereafter as Head of the German Chancellery under Chancellor Helmut Kohl.

He died in Heidelberg at the age of 87.

[[Wolfgang H. Berger]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, American academics, American geologists, German scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Oceanographers, People from Bavaria

Wolfgang "Wolf" Helmut Berger (5 October 1937 – 6 August 2017) was a German-American oceanographer, geologist, micropaleontologist and emeritus professor at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego. He was born in Erlangen, Germany. His research interests comprise "micropaleontology, marine sedimentation, ocean productivity, carbon cycle, ocean history, climate history, and history of oceanography."

Berger died in San Diego, California on 6 August 2017 at the age of 79.

[[Abdulhussain Abdulredha]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Kuwaiti people, Movie actors, Writers, Stage actors

Abdulhussain Abdulredha (15 July 1939 – 11 August 2017), (عبد الحسين عبد الرضا ar) was a Kuwaiti actor, famous and prominent in the Middle East in particular. Abdulredha is best known for his personality of sarcastic humor that made a mockery of the Arab situation comedy template. He was one of the founders of the Arab theater in 1961 and the National Theatre in 1976, as the year 1984 established a special brigade Theatre Arts.

On 11 August 2017, Abdulredha died in London aged 78.

[[Chris Hesketh]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, English rugby union players, People from Wigan, Sportspeople from Greater Manchester

Chris Hesketh MBE (1944 – 10 August 2017) from Wigan, was an English professional Rugby League World Cup winning footballer of the 1960s, and 1970s. He played at representative level for Great Britain, England, and Lancashire representative, and at club level for Wigan and Salford. He was born in Wigan, England.

[[Terele Pávez]]

CATEGORIES: Goya Award winners, 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors, People from Bilbao

Teresa Marta Ruiz Penella (29 July 1939 – 11 August 2017) better known as Terele Pávez was a Spanish actress. She appeared in more than ninety movies since 1954. She was born in Bilbao (Biscay), Spain. She was known for her roles in The Holy Innocents, La Celestina and in El Bar. She won a Goya Award in 2003.

Pávez died on 11 August 2017 from a stroke at the age of 78.

[[Ana María Vela Rubio]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 2017 deaths, People from Andalusia, Spanish supercentenarians

Ana María Vela Rubio (29 October 1901 – 15 December 2017), was a Spanish supercentenarian. She was the oldest verified Spaniard ever from 6 June 2016 when, aged 114 years, 221 days until her death. and was also the oldest Spanish-born person starting in 4 April 2017 when, aged 115 years, 157 days.

Vela Rubio was also the third oldest living person in the world. She became the oldest European since the death of oldest person Emma Morano on 15 April 2017. She is the third oldest person ever from Europe, after Jeanne Calment and Emma Morano.

Vela Rubio was born 29 October 1901 in Puente Genil, Andalusia. She used to work as a dressmaker. She never married her partner as her parents did not agree to their marrying, but the couple had two children. Her daughter, also named Ana, lives with her. She died on 15 December 2017.

[[Frank Bacon (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1864 births, 1922 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Chicago, Burials at Oak Woods Cemetery, American stage actors, American playwrights, Actors from California, Writers from California

Frank Bacon (January 16, 1864 – November 19, 1922), was an American character actor and playwright. After years of relative low success he achieved great success as he entered the twilight of his career. The 1918 play Lightnin', which Bacon co-wrote and starred in, set a Broadway record for the day of 1,291 performances and was still going strong on tour after more than 700 shows when Bacon was forced to bow out due to fatigue.

A week after his retirement, Bacon died of a heart attack in Chicago on November 19, 1922 at the age of 

[[Adolfo Pérez Esquivel]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Argentine writers, Critics, Activists, Argentine painters, Argentine sculptors, People from Buenos Aires, Argentine Nobel Prize winners, Argentine politicians, Human rights activists, Nobel Peace Prize winners, Nonviolence advocates

PeaceAdolfo Pérez Esquivel (born November 26, 1931) is an Argentine activist, community organizer, art painter, writer and sculptor. He was the recipient of the 1980 Nobel Peace Prize for his criticism of the Argentina's last civil-military dictatorship (1976-1983). He was detained, tortured, and held without trial for 14 months; during that period he also received, among other distinctions, the Pope John XXIII Peace Memorial.

[[Flag of Croatia]]

CATEGORIES: Croatia, National flags, Establishments in Croatia, 1990 establishments in Europe

The Flag of Croatia is three equal size red, white and blue horizontal stripes. In the middle is the coat of arms of Croatia. It was adopted on 21 December 1990.

[[Christian Kern]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Austrian journalists, Chancellors of Austria, Chief executives, Civil servants, Politicians from Vienna

Christian Kern (born January 4, 1966 in Vienna) is an Austrian politician of the Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPÖ). He was the leader of the SPÖ from June 25, 2016 to September 25, 2018. He was replaced by Pamela Rendi-Wagner.

Kern was Chancellor of Austria from May 17, 2016 to December 18, 2017. His predecessor was fellow party member Werner Faymann, his successor is Sebastian Kurz (ÖVP). 

After studying journalism and communication at the University of Vienna, he worked as a business journalist and a civil servant. Afterwards he worked at the Verbund AG, the biggest supplier of electricity in Austria. He became chief of the ÖBB, the federal railways of Austria, in 2010.

[[Bludenz (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Vorarlberg

The Bludenz District (Bezirk Bludenz) is an administrative district (Bezirk) of the state of Vorarlberg, Austria.

It has an area of 1,287.63 km². As of 2012 about 61,407 people lived there.

The administrative center of the district is Bludenz.

[[Gosheim]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Gosheim is a municipality in Tuttlingen in the state of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Jestetten]]

Jestetten is a municipality of the district Waldshut in the state of Baden-Württemberg in Germany. It is on the border with Switzerland.

[[Segun Bucknor]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Guitarists, Journalists, Nigerian musicians, Nigerian writers, People from Lagos, Pianists, Pop musicians, Soul musicians

Segun Bucknor (29 March 1946 – 11 August 2017) was a Nigerian journalist and musician active during the 1960s. He was a pianist and guitarist specializing in genres ranging from Soul music to Pop music and to Funk. He was the father of media personality Tosyn Bucknor. He was the bandleader of Segun Bucknor and the Assembly. The group recorded a couple of soul songs such as Lord Give Me Soul and I Will Love You No Matter How.

Bucknor died in Lagos on 11 August 2017 after suffering from multiple strokes at the age of 71. At the time of his death, he was suffering from hypertension and diabetes.

[[Bobby Ray Inman]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Admirals, Military people from Texas, Politicians from Texas, US Republican Party politicians

Bobby Ray Inman (born April 4, 1931) is a retired United States admiral. He held many important positions in the U.S. Intelligence Community. 

He served as Director of Naval Intelligence from September 1974 to July 1976, then moved to the Defense Intelligence Agency where he served as Vice Director until 1977. He next became the Director of the National Security Agency. Inman held this post until 1981. His last major position was as the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, a post he held from February 12, 1981 to June 10, 1982.

Inman was announced as President Bill Clinton's choice to replace Les Aspin as Secretary of Defense on December 16, 1993, receiving broad bipartisan support. He accepted the post at first, but withdrew his nomination during a press conference on January 18, 1994.

[[NoFap]]

CATEGORIES: Organizations, Sexuality, Anti-pornography activists

NoFap or fapstinence is a group that tries to stop masturbating and watching porn. The NoFap website was founded in 2011 by Alexander Rhodes. People who try out the programme sometimes call themselves fapstinents, fapstronauts or nofappers. Some people try out the NoFap plan because it makes them feel more confident. Along with red pillers, incels, MGTOWs and PUA it is a part of the manosphere.

[[Flims]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden, Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland

Flims is a municipality of the district Imboden in the Swiss canton of Graubünden.

[[Kurt Liebrecht]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, East German sportspeople, German footballers, Living people, Sportspeople from Saxony-Anhalt

Kurt "Kuddel" Liebrecht (born 24 December 1936 in Stendal) is a former East German footballer. He was a midfielder.

Liebrecht played for 1. FC Lok Stendal. He also played for the East Germany national football team.

[[Gildwiller]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Gildwiller is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Goldbach-Altenbach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Goldbach-Altenbach is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Eaton, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Eaton is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is the county seat of Preble County.

[[News Radio UK]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations in the United Kingdom

News Radio UK is a British digital radio station that is owned by Radio NewsHub, Radio Today and Radio Response. News Radio UK features news, weather, traffic, sports, showbiz and business summaries on a continuous loop. In addition to its availability on DAB (in Aldershot, Cambridge, Glasgow, Norwich and Portsmouth), the station's programming is streamed live on the network's website, and through apps for Apple, Android, and Kindle devices; plus on Radioplayer and Tunein.

[[Rivera Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Uruguay, 1884 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Uruguay

The Rivera department (Departamento de Rivera) is a department of Uruguay. The capital is the city of Rivera.

Its ISO 3166-2 code  is UY-RV.

[[Flag of the Czech Republic]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Czech Republic

The national flag of the Czech Republic (státní vlajka České republiky) has two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side.

[[Peter Weibel (cyclist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, German cyclists, Sportspeople from Baden-Württemberg, Cancer deaths in Germany

Peter Weibel (14 September 1950 – 9 August 2017) was a German cyclist. He was born in Hockenheim, Germany. He competed for West Germany at the 1972 Summer Olympics and the 1976 Summer Olympics.

Weibel died of cancer on 9 August 2017 at the age of 66.

[[Sales de Llierca]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Sales de Llierca is a municipality found in the province of Girona in the autonomous community of Catalonia in Spain.

[[Tolochenaz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Tolochenaz is a municipality in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. It is found in the district of Morges.

[[Gollion]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Gollion is a municipality of the district Morges in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

[[Tranqueras]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Uruguay

Tranqueras is a city in the Rivera Department of northeastern Uruguay.

[[Joaíma]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Minas Gerais

Joaíma is a municipality in the northeast of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais. It is 27 km. Neighboring municipalities are: Felisburgo, Santa Helena de Minas, Fronteira dos Vales, Águas Formosas, Monte Formoso e Novo Oriente de Minas.

[[Gommersdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Gommersdorf is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Non Stop]]

CATEGORIES: Television programs

Non Stop is a French rolling-news television program on BFMTV. Airing in various timeslots throughout the daytime hours and serving as BFMTV's de facto flagship news program, it features national and international news, along with sports, business and weather updates. Initially, it was an image-only show.

[[Tibetan spaniel]]

CATEGORIES: Tibet

The Tibetan Spaniel is a breed (type) of small, intelligent dogs. They were first bred more than 2,500 years ago in the Himalayan mountains of Tibet. They share genetic history with many other small dogs from Asia, like the Pekingese, Japanese Chin, Shih Tzu, Lhasa Apso, Tibetan Terrier and Pug. 

Even though they are called a Tibetan Spaniel, this dog is not like a "true" spaniel. Spaniels are gun dogs, for hunting. Tibetan Spaniels are companion dogs, and are not useful for hunting. No one is sure how they got the name "spaniel" if they are not gun dogs, but it may be because Tibetan Spaniels look very similar to the small, "lapdog" versions of the hunting spaniels, such as the Cavalier King Charles Spaniel.

[[University of Saskatchewan]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Canada, Saskatoon, 1907 establishments in North America, 1900s establishments in Canada

The University of Saskatchewan (U of S) is a Canadian public research university, first started in 1907 and found on the east side of the South Saskatchewan River in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada. The University of Saskatchewan is the biggest educator in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan. The University of Saskatchewan is one of Canada’s top research universities (based on the number of Canada Research Chairs) and is a member of the U15 Group of Canadian Research Universities (the 15 universities in Canada where the most research is done.)

The university began as an agricultural (farming) college in 1907 and set-up the first Canadian university-based department of extension (teaching people who have already finished school new things, without having to be a full-time student) in 1910. There were 300 set aside for university buildings and 1000 for the U of S farm, and farming fields. In total 10.32 was set aside for the university. The main University campus is situated upon 2425, with another 500 allocated for Innovation Place Research Park. The University of Saskatchewan agriculture college still has access to city land nearby. The University of Saskatchewan's Vaccine and Infectious Disease Organization (VIDO) facility, (2003) develops DNA-enhanced immunization vaccines for both humans and animals.

Ever since it started out as an agricultural college, research has played an important role at the university. Discoveries made at the U of S include sulphate-resistant cement and the cobalt-60 cancer treatment unit. The university teaches more than 200 academic programs.

[[Tacuarembó Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Uruguay, 1837 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Uruguay, 1830s establishments in South America

The Tacuarembó department (Departamento de Tacuarembó) is a department of Uruguay. The capital is the city of Tacuarembó.

Its ISO 3166-2 code  is UY-TA.

[[Stephanie Braganza]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian songwriters, Living people, People from Toronto, Canadian musicians

Stephanie Braganza is a Canadian pop singer based in Toronto. In 2012, Stephanie won a Toronto Independent Music Awards. In April 2016, Stephanie was nominated for a Marty Awards.

[[Lotfi A. Zadeh]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, American computer scientists, Engineers from California, American mathematicians, Iranian Jews, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Baku, Scientists from Berkeley, California, Soviet Jews

Lotfi Aliasker Zadeh (ˈ; Lütfəli Rəhim oğlu Əsgərzadə; لطفی علی‌عسگرزاده; February 4, 1921 – September 6, 2017) was an Azerbaijani-born American mathematician, computer scientist, electrical engineer, artificial intelligence researcher and professor emeritus of computer science at the University of California, Berkeley.

Zadeh was born in Baku, Azerbaijan. His parents had the Iranian nationality, and his mother was of Russian-Jewish descent.

The family moved to Iran when he was ten years old. He moved to the United States in 1943-1944.

He studied at the University of Tehran and Columbia University. He is married to Fay Zadeh and they had two children.

He was best known for proposing the fuzzy mathematics relating of those fuzzy related concepts such as fuzzy logic. He was a founding member of Eurasian Academy.

Zadeh died on September 6, 2017 in Berkeley, California at the age of 96.

[[George Bundy Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, American judges, American lawyers, American civil rights activists, Politicians from New Orleans, Louisiana, Politicians from Washington, D.C., US Democratic Party politicians, Yale University alumni

George Bundy Smith (April 7, 1937 – August 5, 2017) was a lawyer and judge in New York State. While he was a law student at Yale University, he was part of the Freedom Ride from Atlanta, Georgia to Montgomery, Alabama. 

Smith was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. He was raised in Washington, D.C.. He studied at Phillips Academy and at Yale University.

Smith was a judge of the New York City Civil Court from 1975 to 1979 and a justice of the New York State Supreme Court from 1980 to 1986. In 1986, Governor Mario Cuomo appointed Smith to the Appellate Division, First Department, where he served from 1986 to 1992. Smith's best-known opinion for the Court was People v. LaValle, a 4-to-3 decision holding that New York's death penalty statute was unconstitutional due to the structure of its sentencing procedures.

In 2006, Governor George Pataki was urged to reappoint Smith to another term on the Court of Appeals, although Smith would have served only another 16 months on the Court before mandatory retirement at age 70.

Smith died on August 5, 2017 in Harlem, New York at the age of 80.

[[Unite the Right rally]]

CATEGORIES: August 2017 events, Neo-Nazism, 2017 in Virginia

The Unite the Right rally was a militant gathering of alt-right, neo-Nazi, white nationalist, and far-right groups in Charlottesville, Virginia, on August 11 and 12, 2017. The participants protested the removal of Confederate monuments and memorials from public spaces, specifically the Robert Edward Lee Sculpture in Emancipation Park.

Speakers scheduled to appear included Tim Treadstone, David Duke, Richard Spencer, Mike Enoch, and League of the South founder Michael Hill. Speakers claimed that Jews are ruining the West, and hailed Donald Trump and Adolf Hitler. During the rally, David Duke stated that the rally intended to fulfill the "promises of Donald Trump." 

During the rally, a car plowed into a crowd of counter-protesters, killing one person, Heather Heyer, and injuring at least 24 others.  A nearby police helicopter monitoring the response to the rally violence crashed, killing the two troopers on board. One of the troopers took aerial video footage of the car's impact with the crowd, this footage was used to file charges against Fields and then sealed by Prosecutor Platania to prevent the public from viewing it.

Witnesses described the violence as having originated from white nationalists.

President Donald Trump said: "We all must be united & condemn all that hate stands for. There is no place for this kind of violence in America. Let's come together as one!" He added that he condemned "in the strongest possible terms" what he called an "egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides. On many sides." Trump added that "What is vital now is a swift restoration of law and order."

[[Jim Jefferies (comedian)]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Actors from Sydney, Australian comedians, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Writers from Sydney

Geoff James Nugent (born 14 February 1977), better known as Jim Jefferies, is an Australian stand-up comedian, actor and writer. He is well known in the United Kingdom and the United States. He also has a number of Netflix specials. In 2017, he began starring in the Comedy Central talk show The Jim Jefferies Show.

Jefferies was born in Sydney, New South Wales. He has a son, Hank, with actress Kate Luyben.

[[Who You Are]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Debut albums, Jessie J albums, Pop albums, Hip hop albums, R&B albums

Who You Are is the debut studio album by English singer-songwriter Jessie J, released on 28 February 2011 by Lava Records. The album was originally due to be released a month later but due to Jessie J's popularity the album got brought forward. The album was written over a five year period.

[[Alive (Jessie J album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums, Jessie J albums, Pop albums, Dance pop albums, R&B albums

Alive is the second studio album by English singer-songwriter Jessie J. It was released on 23 September 2013 through Lava Music. Musically, Alive is a pop, dance-pop and R&B album that features influences from pop rock, soul and hip hop in its production. For the album's promotion Jessie J had shaved her hair and dyed it blonde.

[[Sweet Talker (Jessie J album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 albums, Jessie J albums, Pop albums, Hip hop soul albums, R&B albums

Sweet Talker is the third studio album by English singer-songwriter Jessie J. It was released on 13 October 2014, by Lava Records and Island Records.

[[Dementor]]

CATEGORIES: Harry Potter characters

A dementor is a man-size creature in the Harry Potter books. They are black and hooded. They only lift up their hood for performing the kiss in which they suck out the soul. There is one way to make them go away. It's the Patronus Charm. It's very advanced magic. You perform it by saying Expecto Patronum!  and remembering a very happy memory, a very powerful memory. Harry Potter first saw them in the third book The prisoner of Azkaban.

[[Arrondissements of the Loiret department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 3 arrondissements in the Loiret department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Loiret are:

[[Arrondissement of Orléans]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Orléans is an arrondissement of France, in the Loir-et-Cher department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Orléans.

[[Arrondissement of Montargis]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Montargis is an arrondissement of France, in the Loir-et-Cher department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Montargis.

[[Arrondissement of Pithiviers]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Pithiviers is an arrondissement of France, in the Loir-et-Cher department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Pithiviers.

[[Airbus Training Centre Europe]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation, Toulouse

Airbus Training Centre Europe is a training centre of the company which make aircrafts Airbus.

It is in Blagnac, close to Toulouse (France).

The centre trains pilots and engineers on the Airbus aircrafts. It has 6 simulators on all Airbus family.

The school is member of the International Association of Aviation Personnel Schools.

Other training centres are in Hamburg, Miami, Beijing, Singapore, Bangalore, New Delhi and Mexico.

[[Joseph Bologna]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winners, 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American television writers, Actors from New York City, Writers from New York City

Joseph "Joe" Bologna (December 30, 1934 – August 13, 2017) was an American actor and television writer. He was notable for roles in the comedy movies My Favorite Year and Transylvania 6-5000. From 1996 to 1998, he voice-acted the character Inspector Dan Turpin in several episodes of Superman: The Animated Series.

Bolgona won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Variety Series in 1973 for his work on The Carol Burnett Show.

Bologna was born in Brooklyn, New York. He studied at Brown University. Bologna was married to Renée Taylor from 1965 until his death in 2017. They had one child together. 

Bologna died in at a hospital in Duarte, California on August 13, 2017 from pancreatic cancer at the age of 82.

[[Renée Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winners, 1933 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American television writers, Actors from New York City, Screenwriters from New York City

Renée Taylor (née Renée Wexler; March 19, 1933) is an American actress, Academy Award-nominated screenwriter and one-time director. She is best known for having played Fran Drescher's title character's outspoken mother, Sylvia Fine, on the TV series The Nanny.

Taylor won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Variety Series in 1973 for her work on The Carol Burnett Show.

[[Gene Sharp]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, American political scientists, American political writers, American political activists, American educators, Writers from Ohio

Gene Sharp (January 21, 1928 – January 28, 2018) was an American political scientist, writer and activist. He was the founder of the Albert Einstein Institution, a non-profit organization dedicated to the study of nonviolent action. He was a retired professor of political science at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth. He was known for his writings on nonviolent struggle.

Sharp was born in North Baltimore, Ohio. He studied at Ohio State University and at Oxford University.

Unofficial sources have claimed that Sharp was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2015, and had been nominated three times, in 2009, 2012 and 2013.

Sharp was widely thought to be the favorite for the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize award. In 2011 he was awarded the El-Hibri Peace Education Prize. In 2012 he was a recipient of the Right Livelihood Award as well as the Distinguished Lifetime Democracy Award.

Sharp died on January 28, 2018 at home in Boston, Massachusetts, exactly 1 week after his 90th birthday.

[[2017 Jiuzhaigou earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 earthquakes, 2017 in Asia, 2010s earthquakes in Asia, 2010s in China, August 2017 events, Earthquakes in China, Gansu, Shaanxi, Sichuan

The 2017 Jiuzhaigou earthquake was an earthquake that happened on 8 August 2017, in Zhangzha Town, Jiuzhaigou County, Ngawa Prefecture, Sichuan Province, China. The earthquake was recorded at magnitude 7.0. It killed at least 24 people in the area.

[[Bruno Canfora]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Italian composers, Italian conductors, Jazz musicians, People from Milan

Bruno Canfora (ˈbruːno ˈkaɱfora; November 6, 1924 – August 5, 2017) was an Italian composer, conductor, and music arranger. He was born in Milan. He also composed songs for Rita Pavone, Ornella Vanoni, Shirley Bassey, and the Kessler Twins. His best known movie composition works are The Man Who Wagged His Tail, Fall of the Mohicans, and in Destruction Force. He was the Eurovision Song Contest conductor for the 1991 contest.

Canfora died on August 5, 2017 in Piegaro, Italy at the age of 92.

[[Burton Gilliam]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American video game actors, Actors from Dallas, Texas

Burton Gilliam (born August 9, 1938) is an American actor. He was born in Dallas, Texas. 

Gilliam appeared in the role of "Floyd", the desk clerk in the movie Paper Moon. He has also appeared in popular motion pictures such as Blazing Saddles and  Back to the Future Part III. He has had roles in several other motion pictures such as Honeymoon in Vegas, Thunderbolt and Lightfoot, Farewell, My Lovely, Fletch, Gator, Telefon, and The Terror Within II. 

His television appearances include Alice, Charlie’s Angels, The A-Team,The Dukes Of Hazzard, The Fall Guy, and he appeared as a regular on Evening Shade.

Gilliam is married to Susan Gilliam. They have two children together. His granddaughter his gymnast Hollie Vise. 

[[Do It Like a Dude]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Debut singles, Pop rock songs, Hip hop songs, R&B songs

"Do It like a Dude" is the debut single by English singer-songwriter Jessie J. The song was released as the lead single from her debut album, Who You Are (2011). It was released as a download in November 2010 in the United Kingdom with a CD release in January 2011. It peaked at number two on the UK Singles Chart and in Scotland too, number eight in New Zealand and Belgium, and number eleven in Ireland. "Do It like a Dude" was awarded Best Song at the 2011 MOBO Awards.

[[Loing]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, Centre-Val de Loire, Île-de-France

The Loing is a river in central France. It is a left tributary of the Seine. It flows through three regions of France: Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, Centre-Val de Loire and Île-de-France

[[AeronautX Luftfahrtschule]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation

AeronautX Luftfahrtschule is a flight school located in Linz, Austria. It has been created in 1998.

It is well known for its partnership with the airline FlyNikki.

The school is member of the International Association of Aviation Personnel Schools.

[[Hélène Martini]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, French businesspeople, People from Warsaw

Hélène Martini (6 August 1924 – 5 August 2017) was a French nightclub owner. He was known for her ownership with the Folies Bergères and known as The Empress of the Night. She was born in Warsaw, Poland to French parents.

Martini died on 5 August 2017 in Paris at the age of 92.

[[Blanche Blackwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2017 deaths, Jamaican people, Costa Rican people

Blanche Blackwell (9 December 1912 – 8 August 2017) was a Jamaican heiress. She was born in Costa Rica. She was the mother of Chris Blackwell (Founder of Island Records) and inspirational muse to Ian Fleming and Noël Coward. She was believed by some to have been the inspiration for some of Fleming’s most memorable female characters; Pussy Galore and Honeychile Rider.

Blackwell died in London on 8 August 2017 at the age of 104.

[[Thomas A. Bird]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2017 deaths, British Army officers, British military personnel of World War II, English architects, Majors

Major Thomas Arthur Bird DSO, MC (11 August 1918 – 9 August 2017) was a British soldier of the Second World War. He was awarded two Military Crosses and the Distinguished Service Order. He later became an architect and worked in collaboration with Richard Tyler restoring country houses.

Bird died on 9 August 2017 at the age of 98.

[[Aung Shwe]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2017 deaths, Ambassadors to France, Asian military people, Burmese people, Generals

Brigadier General Aung Shwe (အောင်ရွှေ; 19 May 1918 – 13 August 2017) was a Burmese politician and a member of General Ne Win's  Burma Rifles rising to Brigadier General. He was one of the founders and former Chairman of National League for Democracy who took in charge of the party when Aung San Suu Kyi and Tin Oo were under house arrest in the early 2000s.

He served as Burmese ambassador to Australia, Egypt, France, Spain and New Zealand from 1961 to 1975.

Shwe died on 13 August 2017 at Victoria Hospital in Yangon, Myanmar at the age of 99.

[[Frank Broyles]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Arkansas, American football players, American football coaches, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), People from Decatur, Georgia

John Franklin Broyles (December 26, 1924 – August 14, 2017) was an American football player and coach, athletics administrator, and broadcaster.  He served as the head football coach at the University of Missouri in 1957 and at the University of Arkansas from 1958 to 1976. Broyles also was Arkansas' athletic director from 1974 until his retirement on December 31, 2007.

Broyles was born in Decatur, Georgia. He studied at the Georgia Institute of Technology.

As a head football coach, Broyles compiled a record of 149–62–6.  His mark of 144–58–5 in 19 seasons is the most wins and the most games of any coach in Arkansas history.  With Arkansas, Broyles won seven Southwest Conference titles and his 1964 team was named a national champion by a number of selectors including the Football Writers Association of America.  He was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 1983.

Broyles died in Fayetteville, Arkansas on August 14, 2017 of Alzheimer's disease at the age of 92.

[[Abdelkrim Ghallab]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Moroccan politicians, Journalists, Novelists

Abdelkrim Ghallab (December 31, 1919 – August 14, 2017) was a Moroccan political journalist, cultural commentator, and novelist. He was born in Fes, Morocco. He was an important figure both in the literary and political field. He studied both at the University of Al-Karaouine in Fez and at the University of Cairo.

Ghallab was the author of five novels and three collections of short stories. His best known novel is Dafann al-m'd (The buried Past), 1966. According to Simon Gikandi his Arabic style is known for its "graceful and at times scholarly classicism".

In 2000, the Union of Arab writers in Egypt included his novel Al-Mu`alîm `Ali (Master Alí) among the hundred best Arabic novels in history. In 2001, the Moroccan department of Culture published the complete works of Ghallab in five volumes. In 2004 he was awarded the Maghreb Culture prize of Tunis. His work has been translated in many languages.

Ghallab died in El Jadida on August 14, 2017, aged 97.

[[2017 Ouagadougou attack]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in Africa, 2017 mass shootings, 2010s murders in Africa, Attacks on buildings and structures in 2017, Attacks on buildings and structures in Africa, Attacks on hotels, Attacks on restaurants, August 2017 events, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2017, Islamic terrorist incidents in Africa, Mass murder in 2017, Mass murder in Africa, Mass shootings in Africa, Ouagadougou, Terrorist incidents in Africa in the 2010s

18 people were killed and more than 20 were injured when jihadists opened fire on a Turkish restaurant and hotel in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso on 13 August 2017. The attackers took hostages after being cornered by police and were killed in an ensuing shootout.

Ouagadougou was also the site of a similar attack in 2016.

It is suspected by the government that al-Qaeda Maghreb affiliate was behind the attack.

[[Tom Petty]]

CATEGORIES: Tom Petty, 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, American rock guitarists, American bass guitarists, American blues musicians, American country guitarists, American country singers, American singer-songwriters, American voice actors, Singers from Florida, Musicians from Florida, Actors from Florida

Thomas Earl Petty (October 20, 1950 – October 2, 2017) was an American musician, singer-songwriter, voice actor and record producer. He is best known as the lead singer of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, but is also known as a member and co-founder of the late 1980s supergroup the Traveling Wilburys (under the pseudonyms of Charlie T. Wilbury, Jr. and Muddy Wilbury), and his early band Mudcrutch.

Petty was also known for his voice role as Lucky in the television series King of the Hill. 

In his career, Petty sold more than 80 million records worldwide, making him one of the best-selling music artists of all time. In 2002, Petty was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

Petty died on October 2, 2017 after he was found in his home in Santa Monica, California suffering from cardiac arrest after accidentally overdosing on prescription pain medication and fentanyl patches at the age of 66.

[[Heather Heyer]]

CATEGORIES: People from Charlottesville, Virginia, American activists, 2017 deaths, 1985 births

Heather Heyer (May 29, 1985 - August 12, 2017) was an American paralegal. She became a symbol for civil rights after she was killed during the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.

[[Philadelphia (disambiguation)]]

Philadelphia is a large city in the United States state of Pennsylvania.

Philadelphia might also mean:

[[Yuriko, Princess Mikasa]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, Living people, Princes and princesses, People from Tokyo

Yuriko, Princess Mikasa, born Yuriko Takagi on 4 June 1923, is a member of the Imperial House of Japan as the widow of Takahito, Prince Mikasa, the fourth son of Emperor Taishō and Empress Teimei. The Princess is the last surviving paternal aunt of the present emperor, Akihito. She is the oldest member of the Imperial Family, and the only living member who was born in the Taishō period during the reign of her father-in-law.

On 29 March 1941, Yuriko's engagement to her second cousin once removed, Prince Mikasa, was announced. The engagement ceremony was held on 3 October 1941, and the wedding ceremony took place on 22 October 1941. Prince and Princess Mikasa were married for 75 years, until Prince Mikasa's death in October 2016.

[[Inga Swenson]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Omaha, Nebraska

Inga Swenson (born December 29, 1932) is an American actress. She was born in Omaha, Nebraska. 

Swenson is best known for her roles as Gretchen Kraus in the TV sitcom Benson and as Ingrid Svenson on the TV sitcom Soap, which had the same producers. She also appeared as northern matriarch Maude Hazard in the acclaimed mini-series North and South in 1985 and again in 1986.

[[K.I.S.S. (Keep It Sexy & Simple)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, 2012 albums, Electronica albums, Hip hop albums, R&B albums

K.I.S.S. (abbreviation of Keep It Sexy & Simple) is the sixth studio album by American singer and songwriter Mýa. It is her second album to be released on Manhattan Records. The album was later re-released as a deluxe version with new songs for her American fans on February 14, 2012.

[[Arrondissements of the Eure-et-Loir department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

There are 4 arrondissements in the Eure-et-Loir department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Eure-et-Loir are:

[[Franklin Cleckley]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, American lawyers, American educators, Politicians from West Virginia, Writers from West Virginia, People from Huntington, West Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians

Franklin Dorrah Cleckley (August 1, 1940 – August 14, 2017) was an American lawyer. He was the Arthur B. Hodges Professor of Law at West Virginia University College of Law. He taught at the law school from 1969 to 2013. He held the endowed professorship emeritus. 

Cleckley was born in Huntington, West Virginia. 

Cleckley became the  first African-American to serve as a Justice on the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals, when Governor Gaston Caperton appointed him to the position in 1994. Justice Cleckley served on the Court until 1996.

Cleckley died at his home in Morgantown, West Virginia, on August 14, 2017, aged 77.

[[Jean Carnahan]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, United States senators from Missouri, Politicians from Washington, D.C., US Democratic Party politicians

Jean Anne Carpenter Carnahan (born December 20, 1933) is an American politician and writer. She served as First Lady of Missouri from 1993 to 2000, and as her state's junior U.S. senator from 2001 to 2002. 

A member of the Democratic Party, she was appointed in 2001 to fill the Senate seat of her husband Mel Carnahan, who had been elected but died before taking office, becoming the first woman to represent Missouri in the Senate.

[[Arrondissement of Chartres]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Chartres is an arrondissement of France, in the Eure-et-Loir department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Chartres.

[[Arrondissement of Châteaudun]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Châteaudun is an arrondissement of France, in the Eure-et-Loir department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Châteaudun.

[[Arrondissement of Dreux]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Dreux is an arrondissement of France, in the Eure-et-Loir department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Dreux.

[[Gunnar Birkerts]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Massachusetts, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Latvian people, American architects, Businesspeople from Detroit, Michigan

Gunnar Birkerts (Gunārs Birkerts, January 17, 1925 – August 15, 2017) was a Latvian-American architect. He was born in Riga, Latvia.

Birkerts, for most of his career, was based in the metropolitan area of Detroit, Michigan. Some of his designs include the Corning Museum of Glass and the Corning Fire Station in Corning, New York, Marquette Plaza in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art in Kansas City, Missouri, and the U.S. Embassy in Caracas, Venezuela.

In 2014, he designed the National Library of Latvia in Riga, Latvia, aka the Castle of Light, whose architectural form references and draws inspiration from Latvian folklore.

Birkerts died at the age of 92 on August 15, 2017 at his home in Needham, Massachusetts of congestive heart failure.

[[Stephen Wooldridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2017 deaths, Suicides in Australia, Australian Olympians, Cyclists, Sportspeople from Sydney

Stephen Brian Wooldridge  (17 October 1977 – 14 August 2017) was an Australian racing cyclist, an Olympic and four-time world champion on the track. He was born in Sydney. He was an Australian Institute of Sport scholarship holder.

In 2005, Wooldridge was awarded a Medal of the Order of Australia. He was inducted into the NSW Hall of Champions in 2015.

Wooldridge committed suicide on 14 August 2017 in Sydney at the age of 39.

[[Arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou is an arrondissement of France, in the Eure-et-Loir department of the Centre-Val de Loire region. Its capital is the city of Nogent-le-Rotrou.

[[Time in Ukraine]]

CATEGORIES: Time by country, Ukraine

[[Flond]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Flond is a former municipality of the district Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Flond and Surcuolm merged into the new municipality of Mundaun.

[[Ftan]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Ftan is a former municipality of the district of Inn in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Ardez, Ftan, Guarda, Sent and Tarasp merged into the municipality of Scuol.

[[Numberblocks]]

CATEGORIES: British children's television series

Numberblocks is a British children's CGI-animated television series. It debuted on CBeebies on 23 January 2017. It is animated by Blue-Zoo Productions, the studio that also produces Alphablocks, which is related. It is a show to teach kid under the age of 11 how to count.

Numberblocks is a British children's CGI-animated television series created by Joe Elliot and co-produced by Blue-Zoo and Alphablocks Ltd. for CBeebies. It debuted on CBeebies on 23 January 2017. It is produced by Blue-Zoo Productions and Alphablocks Ltd, the studios that also produce Alphablocks. The show teaches children numeracy including simple arithmetic. In 2017, the show was nominated for a BAFTA award in the "Learning" category.

[[Southwest Airlines Flight 1248]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation disasters in the United States, 2000s in Chicago

Southwest Airlines Flight 1248 was a regularly-scheduled passenger flight from Baltimore to Chicago-Midway. On approach, the aircraft skid off the runway and into a street, killing a 6 year old boy in a car. It was the first fatal accident in the company's history.

[[Norman Fowler, Baron Fowler]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Politicians from Essex

Peter Norman Fowler, Baron Fowler, PC (born 2 February 1938) is a British politician. He was a member of Margaret Thatcher's ministry. He was the Lord Speaker from September 2016 until April 2021.

After serving as Shadow Minister of Transport, he was appointed Minister of Transport in 1979, being responsible for making seat belts compulsory. Later, as Secretary of State for Health and Social Services, he drew public attention to the dangers of AIDS. He resigned from the cabinet as Employment Secretary, and was knighted in 1990.

On 25 February 2021, Fowler announced that he would resign as Lord Speaker on 30 April 2021 to focus on campaigning work.

[[Vera Glagoleva]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, Deaths from stomach cancer, Russian movie actors, Actors from Moscow

Vera Vitalievna Glagoleva (31 January 1956 – 16 August 2017) was a Russian actress. She was born in Moscow. She was known for her roles in Christmas movies or romantic comedies. Her best known roles were in Vyyti zamuzh za kapitana, Bednaya Sasha, and in Zhenshchin obizhat ne rekomenduyetsya. Glagoleva was awarded the People's Artist of Russia in 2011.

Glagoleva died in Baden-Baden, Germany on 16 August 2017 of cancer at the age of 61.

[[Andrzej Blumenfeld]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Poland, Polish movie actors, Polish television actors, Polish voice actors

Andrzej Stanisław Blumenfeld (12 August 1951 – 14 August 2017) was a Polish actor and voice dubber. He was born in Zabrze, Poland. His career began in 1973. He was known for Polish-dubbing from American movies. His best known work are The Pianist, Delivery Man, and The Witcher.

Blumenfeld died on 14 August 2017 in Warsaw, Poland of cancer at the age of 66.

[[Aharon Yadlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, Deputy government ministers of Israel, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, HaAvoda politicians, Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni, Israeli educators, Jewish Israeli politicians, Mapai politicians

Aharon Yadlin (אהרן ידלין; born 17 April 1926) is a former Israeli educator and politician. He was born in Ben Shemen, Mandatory Palestine.

Yadlin studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.

He was a member of the The Alignment after switching from the Labor Party.

He served as Deputy Minister of Education from 1964 through 1972, and as Minister of Education from 1974 through 1977 in the First Rabin Government.

[[Eugenio Polgovsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2017 deaths, Mexican movie directors, Cinematographers, People from Mexico City

Eugenio Polgovsky (June 29, 1977 – August 11, 2017) was a Mexican movie director, cinematographer and editor. He was born in Mexico City, Mexico. Polgovsky was known for the Mexican documentaries "Tropic of Cancer" ( Semaine de la Critique 2005) and  Los Herederos "The Inheritors" (Mostra of Venice, Orrizontti 2008 & Berlinale Generation 2009).

Polgovsky died in London on August 11, 2017 at the age of 40.

[[Vern Ehlers]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Michigan, United States representatives from Michigan, American physicists, Politicians from Minnesota, Scientists from Michigan, Politicians from Michigan, US Republican Party politicians

Vernon James "Vern" Ehlers (February 6, 1934 – August 15, 2017) was the former U.S. Representative for MI, having served from 1993 until 2011. He was a member of the Republican Party.

Ehlers was the first research physicist to be elected to Congress; he was later joined by Rush Holt, Jr. (D-NJ) and Bill Foster (D-IL).

Ehlers served on the Kent County Board of Commissioners from 1975 to 1982. Ehlers served from 1983 to 1985 in the Michigan House of Representatives and then served from 1985 to 1993 in the Michigan Senate.

Ehlers died on August 15, 2017 in Grand Rapids, Michigan of Alzheimer's disease at the age of 83.

[[Bessie Camm]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 2018 deaths, British supercentenarians, People from Yorkshire

Bessie Camm or Bessie Kemm (20 June 1904 – 11 May 2018), age 1904, was a British supercentenarian and the oldest living resident of the UK, after the death of Gladys Hooper on 9 July 2016 until her death in 11 May 2018.

Camm was born in Swaledale, North Yorkshire on 20 June 1904. She lives in Rotherham, South Yorkshire, England. She worked as a nurse from 1926 until 1972. She married her husband John shortly before the outbreak of World War II. The couple had no children. When asked what the secret to long life was, she said “hard work, knowing lovely people and good food”. She died on 11 May 2018 at the age of 113.

[[Hans Streuli]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the Swiss Confederation, 1892 births, 1970 deaths, People from Zürich

Hans Streuli (13 July 1892 – 23 May 1970) was a Swiss politician.

He was elected to the Swiss Federal Council representing the Canton of Zürich on 22 December 1953. He served until 31 December 1959 when Willy Spühler took office. He was a member of the Free Democratic Party.

During his time in office he held the Department of Finance and was President of the Confederation in 1957.

[[Fritz Honegger]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the Swiss Confederation, 1917 births, 1999 deaths

Fritz Honegger (25 July 1917 – 4 March 1999) was a Swiss politician.

He was elected to the Swiss Federal Council on 7 December 1977. He served until Rudolf Friedrich took the position on 31 December 1982. He was member of the Free Democratic Party. 

During his time in office he held the Federal Department of Economic Affairs and was President of the Confederation in 1982.

[[Fuldera]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Graubünden, Former municipalities of Graubünden

Fuldera is a village and former municipality of the district of Inn in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Fuldera, Lü, Müstair, Santa Maria Val Müstair, Tschierv and Valchava merged into the municipality of Val Müstair.

[[Fadwa Soliman]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, Syrian people, Movie actors, Television actors, Voice actors, Activists

Fadwa Soliman or Fadwa Suleiman (17 May 1970 – 17 August 2017) was a Syrian actress and activist. She was born in Aleppo, Syria. She led a Sunni-majority protest against Bashar al-Assad's government in Homs. She became one of the most recognized faces of the Syrian Civil War.

On 17 August 2017 Soliman died of cancer while in exile in Paris, aged 47.

[[2017 Barcelona attack]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 murders in Europe, 2010s in Barcelona, August 2017 events, Crime in Spain, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2017, Islamic terrorist incidents in Europe, Massacres in Europe, Terrorist incidents in Europe in 2017, Terrorist incidents involving vehicular attacks

On 17 August 2017, a white van hit pedestrians on La Rambla, Barcelona, leaving fourteen people dead and dozens injured. The two suspects then fled on foot.

At around 17:20 CEST, a white Fiat Talento drove onto the pavement of Barcelona's Las Ramblas, crashing into pedestrians between Plaça Catalunya and Gran Teatre del Liceu.

In the press conference held by the police at 7:00pm local time, the spokesperson confirmed the terrorist nature of the event, a dead person and 32 injured —10 of those in serious condition.  Other sources are claiming the fatality count is 13.

Police said two men were arrested in connection with the attack; another was reported killed in a shootout with police. In Ripoll, a man in his 20s was alleged to have rented the van, but told police his ID was stolen. Amaq News Agency said the attackers were "soldiers of the Islamic State" who "carried out the operation in response to calls for targeting coalition states".

An explosion happened the night before the attack in the Catalan town of Alcanar. It flattened a building and killed a woman. The head of the Mossos d'Esquadra Josep Lluís Trapero said it was related to the ramming. Nine hours after the attack, police killed four people in Tarragona said to be planning a terrorist attack in Cambrils.

[[Grentzingen]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 disestablishments in France

Grentzingen is a former commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Illtal.

It is 25 km west of Basel and 10 km southeast of Altkirch.

[[Griesbach-au-Val]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Griesbach-au-Val is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Grussenheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Grussenheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Viaur]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Occitanie

The Viaur is a river in southern France, left tributary of the Aveyron river. It flows through the Aveyron, Tarn and Tarn-et-Garonne departments. 

[[M. T. Liggett]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Deaths from brain cancer, American sculptors, People from Kansas

Myron Thomas "M. T." Liggett (December 28, 1930 – August 17, 2017) was an American folk sculptor. He was born near Mullinville, Kansas. He exhibited hundreds of his artworks on the roads of Mullinville. 

His works were often made of painted, welded metal and often contained re-used farm implements, such as combine discs. His art is often critical of politicians on the local, state, and federal level. Many of his works are kinetic and move with the wind. 

[[John Boorman]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, English movie directors, People from Surrey

John Boorman (ˈ; born 18 January 1933) is an English filmmaker.

Boorman is best known for his feature movies such as Point Blank, Hell in the Pacific, Leo the Last, Deliverance, Zardoz, Excalibur, The Emerald Forest, Hope and Glory, The General, The Tailor of Panama, and Queen and Country. 

Boorman has directed 22 movies and received five Academy Award nominations.

[[George Edward Glass]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Businesspeople from Oregon, Politicians from Oregon, Ambassadors of the United States, US Republican Party politicians

George Edward Glass is an American businessman and diplomat. He has been confirmed by the United States Senate as the next United States Ambassador to Portugal. This nomination was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on August 3, 2017. He took office on August 25, 2017.

Glass was the owner of MGG Development LLC in Lake Oswego, Oregon. He founded Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Oregon in 1990 and served as the company's president until 2014.

He is a trustee for Oregon Health & Science University and a former trustee for the University of Oregon.

[[Duke Buchan]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Businesspeople from North Carolina, Ambassadors of the United States, Politicians from North Carolina, US Republican Party politicians

Richard Duke Buchan III (born July 3, 1963) is an American entrepreneur, financier, farmer, and philanthropist. He is the founder and CEO of Hunter Global Investors, a private investment management firm.

Buchan has been nominated by President Donald Trump to become United States Ambassador to Spain and Andorra. This nomination was confirmed by the United States Senate on November 2, 2017.

[[Pete Hoekstra]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, American Calvinists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Groningen (city), Politicians from Groningen (province), United States representatives from Michigan, US Republican Party politicians

Cornelis Pieter "Pete" Hoekstra (ˈ; born October 30, 1953) is an American politician of Dutch descent. He was the United States Ambassador to the Netherlands from November 2017 to January 2021. He is a former member of the United States House of Representatives, representing Michigan's 2nd congressional district from 1993 to 2011. Hoekstra is a member of the Republican Party.

In July 2017, Hoekstra was nominated to be the next United States Ambassador to the Netherlands by President Donald Trump. This nomination was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on November 9, 2017.

He moved to the United States at the age of three, studied political science at Hope College and obtained an MBA at the University of Michigan.

Before entering into politics he was working as a marketing employee in a furniture business.

Hoekstra is a member of the Reformed Church in America.

[[Jamie McCourt]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States to France, Businesspeople from Baltimore, Maryland, Politicians from Baltimore, Maryland, US Republican Party politicians

Jamie D. McCourt (born December 5, 1953) is a businesswoman and investor. She is the founder and CEO of Jamie Enterprises, and the former co-owner and executive of the Los Angeles Dodgers. She became the highest-ranking woman in Major League Baseball, appointed first as Vice Chairman of the Dodgers in 2004, then President in 2005, and finally CEO in 2009. On June 22, 2017, she was nominated as United States Ambassador to Belgium.

On August 2, 2017, President Trump formally withdrew her nomination and instead nominated her as United States Ambassador to France and United States Ambassador to Monaco. This nomination was confirmed by the United States Senate on November 2, 2017.

[[Steve King (businessman)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, American political activists, Businesspeople from Chicago, Businesspeople from Wisconsin, Politicians from Indianapolis, Indiana, Politicians from Chicago, Politicians from Wisconsin, Businesspeople from Indianapolis, Indiana, US Republican Party politicians

Steve King (born July 4, 1941) is an American businessman and Republican Party activist. He is the founder of King Capital LLC, an equity investment and real estate company. He is a former FBI agent.

In 1988, he campaigned unsuccessfully for the Republican U.S. Senate nomination in Wisconsin.

In July 2017, President Donald Trump nominated King to be the next United States Ambassador to the Czech Republic. This nomination was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on October 5, 2017.

[[Sharon Day]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, Politicians from Texas, US Republican Party politicians

Sharon Day is an American politician. She is the former co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee.

On August 3, 2017, she was confirmed as the next United States Ambassador to Costa Rica. She was nominated by President Donald Trump. She took office on September 25, 2017.

[[Kelly Craft]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States to Canada, Businesspeople from Kentucky, Politicians from Kentucky, United States Ambassadors to the United Nations, US Republican Party politicians, Women diplomats

Kelly Dawn Knight Craft (Guilfoil; born February 24, 1962) is an American diplomat. She was the 30th United States Ambassador to the United Nations from September 2019 to January 2021. Before, she was the United States ambassador to Canada, the first woman to hold the post.

In 2007, she was appointed by President George W. Bush as the U.S. delegate to the United Nations, where her focus included U.S. engagement in Africa. Knight-Craft was a delegate to the 2016 Republican National Convention from Kentucky. She is a member of the University of Kentucky's board of directors. She heads Kelly G. Knight LLC, a business advisory firm based in Lexington, Kentucky.

In June 2017, Craft was nominated to serve as United States Ambassador to Canada by President Donald Trump.

On February 22, 2019, President Trump nominated Craft to be the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. On July 31, 2019, her nomination was confirmed by a vote of 56–34.

After two divorces, she is now married to a coal entrepreneur. During her first week as Ambassador to Canada she suggested that man-made climate change was just one possible theory.

[[Doug Manchester]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Politicians from Los Angeles, California, US Republican Party politicians

Douglas Frederick "Doug" Manchester (born June 3, 1942) is an American businessman and philanthropist. He is the former chairman of Manchester Financial Group, past chairman and publisher of The San Diego Union-Tribune. In January of 2019 Manchester was nominated by President Donald Trump to become United States Ambassador to the Bahamas. His nomination was withdrawn in November 2019

Manchester has built some of the tallest hotels and office buildings in San Diego, including the San Diego Marriott Marquis & Marina and the Manchester Grand Hyatt, and is credited as a driving force behind the development of the San Diego Convention Center. Manchester also built the triple 5-star Grand Del Mar Resort & Spa, which sold to Fairmont Hotels & Resorts in 2015, and he maintains a minority ownership.

Manchester built the Torrey Executive Centre, Manchester Financial Building, Whitetail Lodge and Golf Club, and is currently building the Fairmont Austin hotel in Austin, Texas.

[[John R. Bass]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, Politicians from New York

John R. Bass (born 1964) is an American diplomat. He is the current United States Ambassador to Afghanistan since December 2017. He served as the United States Ambassador to Turkey from 2014 to 2016. He was United States Ambassador to Georgia from 2009 to 2012.

President Donald Trump named him as his choice to become the United States Ambassador to Afghanistan on July 20, 2017. On September 28, 2017, his nomination was confirmed by the Senate.

[[Jeffrey Dean Morgan]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American video game actors, Actors from Seattle, Washington

Jeffrey Dean Morgan (born April 22, 1966) is an American actor. He is known for playing John Winchester on Supernatural, Denny Duquette on the medical drama Grey's Anatomy, The Comedian in the 2009 superhero movie Watchmen, Jason Crouse on The Good Wife, and Negan on The Walking Dead. 

Morgan portrays Thomas Wayne in the DC Extended Universe beginning with Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016).

[[Lauren Cohan]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Models from New Jersey, British movie actors, British television actors, British voice actors, British models, Actors from New Jersey

Lauren Cohan (born January 7, 1982) is a British American actress and model.

[[Stanislav Lyubshin]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Russian movie actors, Russian television actors, Russian stage actors, Russian movie directors, Russian voice actors, Russian screenwriters, Writers from Moscow, Actors from Moscow

Stanislav Andreyevich Lyubshin (Станисла́в Андре́евич Любшин; born 6 April 1933) is a Russian actor, screenwriter and movie director. He was awarded the People's Artist of the RSFSR in 1981. His debut movie was Shchit i mech (1968). From 1964 to 1967, he was member of the Taganka Theatre company in Moscow. Since 1981 Lyubshin has been permanent member with the Moscow Art Theatre (MKhAT named after A. Chekhov). 

[[List of Turkish scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish scientists, Lists of scientists by nationality, Turkey-related lists

This is a list of notable Turkish scientists.

[[Eberhard Jäckel]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, German academics, German historians, People from Bremen (state), People from Prussia, University of Florida alumni

Eberhard Jäckel (June 29, 1929 – August 15, 2017) was a Social Democratic German historian. He was known for his studies of Adolf Hitler's role in German history. Jäckel sees Hitler as being the historical equivalent to the Chernobyl disaster.

[[List of Romanian social scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists, Romanian social scientists, Romania-related lists

This is a list of notable Romanian social scientists. 

[[Gueberschwihr]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Gueberschwihr is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Citroën Jumpy]]

CATEGORIES: Front wheel drive vehicles, Vans

The Citroën Jumpy (Citroën Dispatch in some countries) is a series of vans and passenger vans produced by Citroën in three generations since 1994. It is builded in cooperation with Fiat and Peugeot.

Fiat and Peugeot made the same vehicle but with different names, The names were  Fiat Scudo and Peugeot Expert.

[[Sonny Landham]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), Actors from Kentucky, Politicians from Georgia (U.S. state), US Libertarian Party politicians

William M. "Sonny" Landham (February 11, 1941 – August 17, 2017) was an American actor, stunt man and politician. He played tracker Billy Sole in the action movie Predator.

Landham was born in Canton, Georgia. He studied at the University of Georgia.

Landham spent three years in prison after being convicted on federal charges of making threatening phone calls to his wife before the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the conviction in May 2001.

In 2003, Landham ran in the Republican Party primary election for the post of Governor of Kentucky. He was unsuccessful in gaining the party's nomination. He ran briefly as an independent candidate, but withdrew on June 18. In January 2004, Landham announced his candidacy for the 27th State Senate District of Kentucky. He lost the election.

On September 19, 2006, Landham was injured in a four-car accident in Ashland, Kentucky.

On June 25, 2008, Landham announced his candidacy for the U.S. Senate seat currently held by Mitch McConnell on the Libertarian line. The same day Landham was accused of calling for genocide against Arabs (whom Landham referred to as "camel dung shovelers," "camel jockeys," and "rag-heads") for his comments on the political radio show The Weekly Filibuster. hree days later, on June 28, the Kentucky Libertarians voted unanimously to withdraw Landham's nomination, citing his comments were not in keeping with the party's platform and values.

Landham died of congestive heart failure in Lexington, Kentucky on August 17, 2017 at the age of 78.

[[Abdirahman Jama Barre]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Somali politicians

Abdirahman Jama Barre (Somali: Cabdiraxmaan Jaamac Barre, Arabic: عبد الرحمن جامع بري‎‎) (1937 – 15 August 2017) was a Somali politician. He twice served as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Somali Democratic Republic, and later as the Minister of Finance. He was also the 1st Deputy Prime Minister of Somalia. He served all three positions at the same time from 1987 through 1991. 

Barre was born in Luuq, Italian Somaliland. He studied at the University of Padua. Barra died in San Diego, California on 15 August 2017 at the age of 79.

[[Laurie Brokenshire]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, Alumni of the University of Exeter, Deaths from brain cancer, English entertainers, British magicians, People from Devon, Royal Navy officers

Commodore Laurence Phillip Brokenshire CBE, RN (20 October 1952 – 4 August 2017) was a British navy officer and magician. He was born in Plymouth, Devon. He studied at the University of Exeter. His career developed as a submariner and later as a senior Royal Navy officer. He retired as officer in 2003. Laurie was accepted into the Inner Magic Circle, and became an occasional professional / semi-professional magic performer.

Brockenshire died of brain cancer on 4 August 2017 in Stubbington, Hampshire at the age of 64.

[[Pertti Alaja]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Finnish footballers, Sportspeople from Helsinki

Pertti Johannes Alaja (18 February 1952 – 18 August 2017) was a Finnish footballer. He was born in Helsinki, Finland. He played as a goalkeeper. He played for HJK Helsinki, Haka, Oulun Työväen Palloilijat, Ikast, Edmonton Drillers, Malmö FF and for the Finland national football team.

Alaja was elected as the 15th president of the Football Association of Finland on 14 October 2012, replacing Sauli Niinistö.

Alaja died in Espoo, Finland, on 18 August 2017 of cancer at the age of 65.

[[2017 Turku stabbings]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 murders in Europe, 21st century in Finland, August 2017 events, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2017, Islamic terrorist incidents in Europe, Mass stabbings in Europe, Terrorist incidents in Europe in 2017, Turku

On 18 August 2017, around 16:00 local time (UTC+3), several people were stabbed in central Turku, Finland. Alarm was first raised at 16:02 and by 16:05 the suspect had been captured. At least two people were killed in the attack.

On 18 August 2017, at 16:02 local time, several people were stabbed at Central Market Square in central Turku, Finland. The attacker, later described by the police as a young male of foreign background, then stabbed several people on his way to Puutori, where he was shot in the leg by the police and arrested at 16:05.

The Turku City Library and Hansa Emporium were evacuated, and the police initially advised people to avoid the city centre area.

The police increased security in Helsinki Airport and Helsinki Central railway station, along with other transport hubs across Finland. 

At 19:00 local time, the police held a press conference where they reported that they were not investigating the incident as a terrorist attack, but the possibility that it was a terrorist attack had not been ruled out.

[[Sapa'u Ruperake Petaia]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Civil servants, Oceanic writers, Poets, Samoan people

Sapa'u Ruperake Petaia (born 11 April 1951) is a Samoan poet and writer.

He is known for writing about the effects of colonialism and Western influences on Samoan culture and society.

Petaia was born in Samoa, and studied at the University of South Pacific in Fiji. A collection of his poems called Blue Rain was published in 1980 (among them the poem "Kidnapped"). Another poem called "Patches of the Rainbow" was published in 1992.

[[Herman Mandui]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2014 deaths, Archaeologists, Oceanic scientists, Papua New Guinean people

Herman Mandui (1969 - October 4, 2014) was an archaeologist from Papua New Guinea.

Mandui is regarded as the "godfather" of archaeology in his country. He worked on several archaeological sites, for example in the Western Highlands Province and in the eastern Goilala District.

He was the Chief Archeologist of Papua New Guinea from 2008 until his death in 2014.

[[Monte dei Paschi di Siena]]

CATEGORIES: Banks, Finance

Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena (sometimes referred to as BMPS or MPS) claims to be the oldest surviving retail bank in the world. July 2020It has its headquarters in Siena, Italy.

The company's website claims that the bank was founded in the year 1472, although there is little information to confirm this.

[[Guebwiller]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin, Subprefectures in France

Guebwiller is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department in Grand Est of eastern France.

It is 20 northwest of Mulhouse at the foot of the Vosges mountains.

The town had a population of about 11,609 people as of 2006.

[[List of Romanian natural scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists, Romanian scientists, Romania-related lists

This is a list of noted  natural scientists from Romania.

[[Morges]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Vaud

Morges is a city in the Swiss canton of Vaud. It is the capital of the district Morges.

[[Fazenda Lageado]]

CATEGORIES: São Paulo, 1870 establishments, 1870s establishments in Brazil

Fazenda Lageado is a farm museum in the city of Botucatu, in the Brazilian state of São Paulo.

The farm was created in 1870. In the first half of the twentieth century, it was one of the largest coffee producers in the state of São Paulo. Since the 1990s, the place has been called the "Coffee Museum".

[[Varna]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism, History of India

Varna is a social concept from the Brahmin leaders of Hinduism in India

People became divided into four classes depending on their type of work. Brahmins were priests and teachers. Kshatriyas were the warriors. Vaishyas did agriculture, trading and commerce. The shudras were the general working class. A common misconception is that the Vaishyas and Shudras were generally looked down upon, and treated badly by Brahmins and Kshatriyas, which was true for the later part of the Vedic age. But was untrue for the earlier part. This type of social division is called the Varna system in Hinduism.

[[Girard, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Girard is a city in Trumbull County, Ohio, United States. The population was 9,958 at the 2010 census. It is part of Mahoning Valley.

[[Smartism]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism

Smartism is a sect of Hinduism in which, in contrast with Shaivism and Vaishnavism, one may worship multiple gods. It is often referred as a "liberal" sect and is passed along familial ties.

[[Lilly Singh]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT comedians, Comedians from Toronto, Writers from Toronto, 1988 births, Living people, American television talk show hosts

Lilly Singh (born 26 September 1988) is a Canadian YouTuber, vlogger, comedian, television host, writer and actress. She is mostly known by her YouTube former username IISuperwomanII.

[[Pyotr Deynekin]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Russian generals, Soviet generals

Pyotr Stepanovich Deynekin (14 December 1937 – 19 August 2017) was a Soviet-Russian general. He was born in Morozovsk, Russia. In 1997, he was awarded the Hero of the Russian Federation.

In 1969, he graduated from the USSR Air Force Academy. From 1991 to 1992, he was commander-in-chief of the air force and deputy defense minister of the USSR. In 1992, he served as commander-in-chief of the Air Force of the Commonwealth of Independent States. From 1992 until his death, he was the commanding officer of the Air Force of the Russian Federation. He retired in 2002.

Deynekin died on 19 August 2017 in Moscow at the age of 79.

[[Alfonso Azpiri]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Comics artists, Cartoonists, Writers from Madrid

Alfonso Azpiri (1947 – August 18, 2017) was a Spanish comic book artist, whose work was mainly of the adult variety. He was born in Madrid. His work has been translated and published in a number of magazines, including Heavy Metal and Penthouse Comix. 

Azpiri's best known works were Lorna, a Barbarella-like space adventurer who travels the galaxy accompanied by two droids, the R2D2-like ADL and the C-3PO-like Arnold.

Azpiri died on August 18, 2017 in Madrid at the age of 69 of a heart attack.

[[Duncan Russell]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Cancer deaths in London, English football managers, Sportspeople from London

Duncan Russell (12 March 1958 – 18 August 2017) was an English football manager. He was born in London, England. He was the manager of Conference National side Mansfield Town until 12 May 2011 when they decided not to renew his contract.

Russell died in London of liver cancer on 18 August 2017 at the age of 59.

[[Janusz Głowacki]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Polish writers, American playwrights, American screenwriters, American essayists

Janusz Głowacki (13 September 1938 – 19 August 2017) was a Polish-American playwright, essayist and screenwriter. He was born in Poznań, Poland. 

His best known works include Antigone in New York, Fortinbras Gets Drunk, The Fourth Sister, and Hunting Cockroaches. He has won many awards such as the Guggenheim Fellowship, the Jurzykowski Prize, the Tony Cox Award and the Czesław Miłosz Award.

Głowacki died on 19 August 2017 in New York City, New York at the age of 78.

[[Sonny Burgess]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, American country guitarists, American country singers, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, Singers from Arkansas, Musicians from Arkansas

Albert Austin "Sonny" Burgess (May 28, 1929 – August 18, 2017) was an American rockabilly guitarist and singer. He was born in Newport, Arkansas. He was known for working with fellow country musician D. J. Fontana. He gained popularity in Europe during most of his career. Burgess was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame of Europe in 1999.

Burgess died of complications from a fall in Little Rock, Arkansas on August 18, 2017 at the age of 88.

[[D. J. Fontana]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from fractured hip, American rock drummers, Musicians from Louisiana, People from Shreveport, Louisiana

Dominic Joseph "D. J." Fontana (March 15, 1931 – June 13, 2018) was an American musician. He was born in Shreveport, Louisiana. He was best known as the drummer for Elvis Presley for 14 years. He played on over 460 RCA cuts with Elvis. He also played for The Blue Moon Boys and Sonny Burgess. 

On April 4, 2009, Fontana was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland in the sidemen category.

Fontana died on June 13, 2018 in Nashville, Tennessee from complications of a broken hip at the age of 87.

[[Don Shepherd]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from vascular dementia, Cricketers, Welsh sportspeople

Donald John Shepherd (12 August 1927 – 18 August 2017) was a Welsh cricketer. He played for Glamorgan. One of the great county bowlers, he took more first-class wickets, 2,218 at 21.32 each, than any other player who never played Test cricket. He was born in Port Eynon, Glamorgan, Wales. 

Shepherd played regularly to the end of the 1971 season, and then retired from first-class cricket after a few games in 1972. He often appeared as a summariser on BBC Radio Wales coverage of Glamorgan matches.

Shepherd died on 18 August 2017 in Glamorgan, Wales of vascular dementia, aged 90.

[[Venero Mangano]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, American military personnel of World War II, Criminals from New York City

Venero Frank "Benny Eggs" Mangano (September 7, 1921 – August 18, 2017) was an American criminal. He was the underboss of the Genovese crime family. Since boss Daniel "Danny the Lion" Leo was imprisoned in 2007, Mangano was the family's senior leader outside prison. The nickname "Benny Eggs" came from his mother running an egg farm. He was released from prison on November 2, 2006, after serving a 15-year sentence for extortion.

[[Dominick Cirillo]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Criminals from New York City

Dominick Vincent "Quiet Dom" Cirillo (born July 4, 1929) is an American gangster. He is a high-ranking member of the Genovese crime family, who briefly served as acting boss for the imprisoned Boss Vincent "Chin" Gigante. He was born in Harlem, New York. 

Cirillo represented the Genoveses in their dealings with the other Mafia families of New York City after Gigante was jailed, though Gigante remained in overall charge of the family. In this way, Cirillo served as "acting boss", and was seen by US authorities as the most powerful member of the Genovese family. However, in 1998 Cirillo stepped down as acting boss because of a heart attack.

On August 22, 2008, the 79-year-old Cirillo was released from federal prison after serving more than three years.

[[Roger Pinto Molina]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2017 deaths, Aviation deaths, Bolivian people, Politicians

Roger Pinto Molina (23 April 1960 – 16 August 2017) was a Bolivian right-wing politician. Pinto was born in Santa Rosa, Beni. He was elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1997, from the single-member constituency 67 in Pando (covering areas in the provinces Nicolás Suárez, Manuripi and General Federico Román) as a Nationalist Democratic Action (ADN) candidate.

In 2005, Pinto was elected to the Senate as a Podemos candidate from Pando. He served as the head of the Podemos faction in the Senate. He was reelected to the Senate in 2009, as a candidate of Plan Progress for Bolivia – National Convergence.

Pinto was accused of involvement in the September 11, 2008 massacre in Porvenir. Until his death, he sought refuge in the Brazilian Embassy in La Paz. He was granted asylum in Brazil but was not given safe conduct by Evo Morales Government to leave Bolivia.

Molina was killed in a plane crash on 16 August 2017 in Brazil at the age of 58.

[[Lucien N. Nedzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, American lawyers, United States representatives from Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians

Lucien Norbert Nedzi (born May 28, 1925) is a Democratic Party member of the United States House of Representatives from the State of Michigan. 

[[Weston E. Vivian]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2020 deaths, Engineers from Michigan, Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Newfoundland and Labrador, United States representatives from Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians

Weston "Wes" Edward Vivian (October 25, 1924 – December 4, 2020) was a Canadian-born American politician and retired engineer. He served as a member of the United States House of Representatives for Michigan's 2nd congressional district from January 3, 1965 through January 3, 1967. He was a member of the Democratic Party.

Vivian was born in Newfoundland, Canada. He studied at Union College, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and at University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. Vivian died on December 4, 2020 in Ann Arbor at the age of 96.

[[Philip Ruppe]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, American military people, United States representatives from Michigan, US Republican Party politicians

Philip Edward Ruppe (born September 29, 1926) is an American politician. He is a member of the Republican Party. He served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1967 to 1979 before running, unsuccessfully for the United States Senate in 1982. 

He is a Korean War veteran, having served as a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy. After leaving the U.S. House, Ruppe became active in business before running for election, without success, to the 103rd Congress.

[[Dale Kildee]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American teachers, United States representatives from Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Saginaw, Michigan

Dale Edward Kildee (born September 16, 1929) is an American politician. He was a U.S. Representative from Michigan, serving from 1977 until 2013. He is a member of the Democratic Party. 

His district included Flint, Saginaw and Bay City. In July 2011, Kildee announced he would retire after his current term was up in 2012.

[[Colin Meads]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Coaches, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, New Zealand rugby union players, Sportspeople from North Island

Sir Colin Earl Meads (3 June 1936 – 20 August 2017) was a New Zealand rugby union player, coach and manager. He was born in Cambridge, New Zealand. He played 55 test matches (133 total games), most frequently in the lock forward position, for New Zealand's national team, the All Blacks, from 1957 until 1971.

Meads was widely considered one of the greatest players in history. Nicknamed 'Pinetree', he was an icon within New Zealand rugby, and was named the country's Player of the Century at the NZRFU Awards in 1999.

Meads died on 20 August 2017 in Te Kuiti, New Zealand of pancreatic cancer at the age of 81.

[[Sirkka Selja]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Finnish people, Poets

Sirkka Selja (20 March 1920 – 17 August 2017) was a Finnish poet and writer. She was born in Koski Hl, nowadays Hollola, Finland. Her real name was Sirkka-Liisa Tulonen.

Her first book was published in 1942 titled Still I Live. In addition to poems, his production includes a play and two listening works. Selja was awarded with the State Literature Prize of Finland in 1958, the Pro Finlandia in 1970, the Aleksis Kivi Prize in  1987 and the P. Mustapää Prize in 2007.

Selja died on 17 August 2017 of pneumonia in Hollola, Finland at the age of 97.

[[Five Star Movement]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s establishments in Italy, 2009 establishments in Europe, Political parties in Italy

The Five Star Movement (M5S; Italian: Movimento 5 Stelle) is an Italian political party. The leader is Luigi Di Maio.

The party was formed by Beppe Grillo and Gianroberto Casaleggio in October 2009. Beppe Grillo served as leader of the party from 2009 to 2017. In September 2017, Luigi Di Maio became leader of the party.

After the 2018 elections, the Five Star Movement became the largest party in the Italian Parliament. Also, the party formed a coalition with the right-wing Lega Nord.

After the break of the Conte I Cabinet, the party formed a coalition in the next Cabinet with the Democratic Party.

From 2014, the party has was a member of the Eurosceptic Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy (EFDD) group in the European Parliament. However, in 2017 party members of the Five Star Movement voted to leave the EFDD.

[[Optare Alero]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Optare Alero was a low-floor minibus that was built by Optare between 2001 and 2008. 

Around 300 were built in the first five years of being built. Most Aleros were used for rural routes.

[[Nati Mistral]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Spanish movie actors, Spanish stage actors, Actors from Madrid

Natividad Macho Álvarez (13 December 1928 – 20 August 2017) was a Spanish movie and stage actress better known by the stage name Nati Mistral. She was born in Madrid, Spain. 

Mistral was known for her movie roles in The Captain's Ship (1947), Gold and Ivory (1947), Currito of the Cross (1949), Service at Sea (1951), Cabaret (1953), Lovers of Toledo (1953), My Street (1960), and in Mis tres amores (1971). She won the National Theater Prize in 1997.

Mistral died of complications from a stroke in Madrid on 20 August 2017 at the age of 88.

[[Bou Regreg]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Morocco, Rivers of Africa

The Bou Regreg (أبو رقراق) is a river in western Morocco. It flows into the Atlantic Ocean between the cities of Rabat and Salé.  The mouth of this river is called Wadi Sala.

The river is 240 kilometres long, with a tidal estuary going approximately 24 kilometres upriver. Its average discharge is 23 m3/s and can reach 1500 m3/s during floods. The source of the river is the Middle Atlas mountains at an altitude of 1627 meters on the level of Jbel Mtourzgane (Province of Khemisset) and of Grou (Province of Khénifra).

[[Vicente Sota]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies of Chile

Vicente Sota Barros (28 April 1924 – 16 August 2017) was a Chilean politician. He was born in Talca, Chile. He was a member of the Christian Democratic Party until switching as a member of the Party for Democracy from 1987 until his death in 2017.

Sota served as Deputy President of the Chamber of Deputies from 1965 through 1969 and again from 1990 through 1998. He served as President of the Chamber of Deputies from 1994 through 1995.

Sota died on 16 August 2017 in Santiago de Chile at the age of 93.

[[List of paintings by Edvard Munch]]

CATEGORIES: Lists, Paintings

This is a list of paintings by Edvard Munch. Munch was a Norwegian symbolist painter and printmaker. He is best-known for The Scream. This list is from Gerd Woll's catalogue raisonné from 2008.

[[Princess Lalla Salma of Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Moroccan royalty, Engineers, Princes and  princesses, Moroccan scientists

Princess Lalla Salma born Salma Bennani; (الأميرة للا سلمى, Amazigh: ⵍⴰⵍⵍⴰ ⵙⵍⵎⴰ;10 May 1978, Fes) is the princess consort of Morocco. She is the wife of King Mohammed VI and the first wife of a Moroccan ruler to have been publicly acknowledged and given a royal title.

[[List of rulers of Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: Kings of Morocco, Lists of people

This is the list of rulers of Morocco, since the establishment of the first Moroccan state in 789. The common and formal titles of these rulers has varied, depending on the time period. Since 1957, the title King has been used.

[[Coat of arms of Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: National coats of arms, Morocco, 1957 establishments in Africa, 20th-century establishments in Morocco

The current coat of arms of Morocco (formally, the royal coat of arms) was introduced 14 August 1957. It was developed by the graphic artists Gauthier and Hainaut and shows a green pentagram, specifically a two-dimensional Penrose pentacle on a red background before the Atlas Mountains and a rising sun. The royal crown is on top. Two lions function as the holders of the shield. On the ribbon underneath, the Arabic inscription is written: (إن تنصروا الله ينصركم) (If you glorify God, He will glorify you) (Quran, Verse 7, Sura 47).

[[Moulay Hassan, Crown Prince of Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 births, Living people, Princes and princesses, Moroccan royalty, People from Rabat

Prince Moulay Hassan (born 8 May 2003) is the heir apparent to  the Moroccan throne. He is the oldest child of King Mohammed VI of Morocco and his wife Princess Lalla Salma of Morocco. He has a younger sister, Princess Lalla Khadija. He is named after his grandfather Hassan II; if he ascends the throne, he is expected to reign as Hassan III.

In 2015 Hassan began appearing in public with his father at official engagements.

[[Princess Lalla Khadija of Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 births, Living people, Moroccan royalty, Princes and princesses

Princess Lalla Khadija of Morocco (born 28 February 2007) is the second child of Mohammed VI of Morocco and his wife, Princess Lalla Salma. Lalla Khadija's elder brother is Moulay Hassan, Crown Prince of Morocco.

In honour of her birth, the king granted a royal pardon to thousands of prison inmates. Khadija visited Tunisia with her mother Lalla Salma in June 2009.

[[Lalla (title)]]

CATEGORIES: Arabic language, Titles

Lalla (ⵍⴰⵍⵍⴰ) (literally, "lady") is a (Moroccan) Amazigh title of respect. The title is a prefix to her given name or personal name, and is used by females usually of noble or royal background. It may also be used to address older women out of respect. Any woman believed to be descended from Muhammad has the title of Lalla. Likewise, any man who is believed to be descended from Muhammad has the title of Sidi or Moulay (Moulay being a higher honorific).

[[Princess Lalla Meryem of Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Princes and princesses, People from Rome, Moroccan royalty, Italian businesspeople

Princess Lalla Meryem of Morocco (الأميرة للا مريم, born 26 August 1962 in Rome, Italy) is the first daughter and eldest child of the late King Hassan II of Morocco and his second wife, Lalla Latifa Hammou.

After she obtained her Baccalaureat in 1981, Princess Lalla Meryem was appointed by her father as the President of Social Works of the Royal Army Forces.

On 15 September 1984, she married Fuad Filali (born 1957), the son of former Prime Minister and Foreign Affairs Minister Abdellatif Filali. They had two children: a daughter and a son:

Lalla Meryem divorced from Fuad Filali in 1999.

Princess Meryem has two brothers King Mohammed VI and Prince Moulay Rachid, and two sisters Lalla Asma and Lalla Hasna.

Holder of numerous prestigious official functions, Princess Meryem has focused much of her activities on the social and cultural realm. Princess Meryem is the President of the Moroccan association in support of UNICEF, President of the Hassan II Foundation for the Moroccans residing abroad, President of the Moroccan National Observatory of the Childs Rights and President of the Hassan II Foundation for the social works of the former soldiers and ex-combatants. In July 2001, she was nominated UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador with focus her Ambassadorship on UNESCO projects for women and children. Also Member of the Honorary Committee of the International Centre for Missing & Exploited Children.

Since 2003 she is President of the National Union of Moroccan Women (UNFM).

Using her Royal status, she continues her work on behalf of women and children and advocate their rights on an international level.

[[Tarfaya Province]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Morocco

Tarfaya is a province in the Moroccan economic region of Laâyoune-Sakia El Hamra, which includes the southwestern part of the territory of Morocco as of before 1975, and the northern part of the disputed territory of Western Sahara. Its population in 2004 was 10420. Its main town is Tarfaya.

In the north-east of the province, Khenifiss National Park is located.

[[Khenifiss National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Africa, Morocco

Khenifiss National Park (Le Parc National Khenifiss) is a national park in the southwest of Morocco, located near Akhfennir on the Atlantic coast in the region of Laâyoune-Sakia El Hamra. It was established in 2006. The area of the park is 1850. The national park was created to protect desert, wetlands, and coastal dunes.

The park was first created as a natural reserve in 1960, and in 1980, it was classified as a wetland of international importance. In 1983, the natural reserve was transformed into a Permanent Biological Reserve, and on September 26, 2006, the national park was created.

The park is located at the coast of Atlantic Ocean, north of the border with Western Sahara, between the towns of Tan-Tan (north) and Tarfaya (south). The National Route 1, which runs along the Atlantic coast of Morocco, passes through the park.

The park includes a coastal portion, the Khenfiss lagoon, the biggest lagoon at the Moroccan coast, and the inland portion, located on desert plateaus. The lagoon is also an important bird nesting ground. Ruddy shelduck, marbled duck, and Audouin's gull inhabit the lagoon permanently, and a big number of species migrate here in winter. Every year, about 20,000 birds stay in the lagoon area in the winter season.

The inland part includes sabkhas and is typical for Sahara landscapes. It also includes sand dunes and limestone plateaus.

The government declared its intention to turn the park into a major tourist attraction specializing in ecotourism.

[[Akhfennir]]

CATEGORIES: Morocco, Settlements in Africa

Akhfennir is a small town in Tarfaya Province, in the Laâyoune-Sakia El Hamra region of Morocco. The area is noted for Khenifiss National Park and Tarfaya-Akhfenir Wind Farm.

== References == 

[[Sami people of Norway]]

CATEGORIES: Nordic people, Arctic, Lapland, Norway

The Sami ethnic group in Norway, or Sami people in Norway, are part of an ethnic group that also lives in Sweden, Finland, and Russia.

In Norway, the core-area of the Sami, is in 4 municipalities in Finnmark county and 1 municipality in Troms county: Kautokeino, Karasjok, Porsanger, Tana og Nesseby and Kåfjord.

The core area is inside Norway's part of Sapmi (or Lapland). (Lapland is a part of 4 countries: Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia.)

The Sami languages in Norway, are Northern Sami (en), Lule Sami language (en), and Southern Sami language (en).

[[Donald McKenzie (disambiguation)]]

Don or Donald McKenzie (also Mackenzie or MacKenzie) may refer to:

[[Bajram Rexhepi]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Prime Ministers of Kosovo

Bajram Rexhepi (3 June 1954 – 21 August 2017) was a Kosovar politician. He was the former Interior Minister of the Republic of Kosovo and was member of the Kosovo Assembly. He was also the first elected post-war Prime Minister of Kosovo. He was a member of the second largest political party in Kosovo, the Democratic Party of Kosovo (PDK).

[[Mohamed Refaat El-Saeed]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Egyptian politicians, Egyptian scientists, Egyptian writers

Mohammed Refaat El-Saeed (محمد رفعت السعيد Muhammad Rifaʻatu s-Saʻīd, 11 October 1932 ­– 17 August 2017) was an Egyptian politician, scholar and writer. He served as the general secretary of the National Progressive Unionist Party (Tagammu). El-Saeed held two doctorates in history, and was a part-time lecturer at the American University in Cairo. El-Saeed was a frequent contributor to al-Ahali, the Tagammu party organ.

El-Saeed died on 17 August 2017 at the age of 84.

[[Abdur Razzak]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Bangladeshi movie actors, Bangladeshi movie directors, Recipients of Bangladesh National Film Awards, Recipients of the Independence Day Award

Abdur Razzak (23 January 1942 – 21 August 2017) was a Bangladeshi actor and movie director. He was known as Nayak Raj, a title given by Ahmed Zaman Chowdhury, editor of Chitrali. He was given the Independence Day Award in 2015 by the Government of Bangladesh. He received National Film Awards (Bangladesh) for Best Actor for five times and received Lifetime Achievement Awards in 2013.

His first big break in cinema came with his role in Zahir Raihan's Behula (1966). He went on to make more than 300 appearances in Bengali and Urdu movies. He also directed around sixteen movies.

Razzak was a UNFPA goodwill ambassador.

[[Brian Aldiss]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, English science fiction writers, English short story writers, Writers from Norfolk

Brian Wilson Aldiss, OBE (ˈ; 18 August 1925 – 19 August 2017) was an English writer and anthologies editor. He was best known for science fiction novels and short stories. His byline reads either Brian W. Aldiss or simply Brian Aldiss, except for occasional pseudonyms during the mid-1960s. 

[[Helmut Piirimäe]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Estonian people, Estonian historians

Helmut Piirimäe (September 8, 1930 — 21 August 2017) was an Estonian historian. He was born Põltsamaa, Estonia. He was professor emeritus of University of Tartu, and an honorary doctor of University of Uppsala. Piirimäe researched Estonian history under the Swedish Empire in the 17th century, but also the Enlightenment in the 18th century, especially the French Revolution.

Piirimäe was married to art historian Krista Piirimäe. They had three sons and a daughter.

Piirimäe died on 21 August 2017 in Tartu, Estonia at the age of 86.

[[Paavo Lonkila]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Finnish Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists

Paavo Olavi Lonkila (Paavo Lång; 11 January 1923 – 23 September 2017) was a Finnish cross-country skier. He was born in Kiuruvesi, Finland.

Lonkila won a gold medal in the 4×10 km relay at the 1952 Olympics and finished third in the individual 18 km race, 11 seconds behind his teammate Tapio Mäkelä. Earlier his 4×10 km relay team placed second at the 1950 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships, where he finished fifth over 18 km. He won the 18 km event at the 1951 Holmenkollen ski festival. Lonkila was a farmer by occupation.

Lonkila died on 23 September 2017 in Kiuruvesi, Finland at the age of 94.

[[Christopher G. Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Boston, Massachusetts, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, Businesspeople from Illinois, Politicians from Illinois, Kennedy family, US Democratic Party politicians

Christopher George Kennedy (born July 4, 1963) is an American businessman. He is Chair of Joseph P. Kennedy Enterprises, Inc. He is a son of former U.S. Senator Robert F. Kennedy, a member of the Kennedy family. Kennedy served as Chair of the Board of Trustees for the University of Illinois from 2009 to 2015. Until April 2012, he was also president of Merchandise Mart Properties, a commercial property management firm based in Chicago.

He was a candidate in the Democratic Party primary for Governor of Illinois in the 2018 election.

[[J. B. Pritzker]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Governors of Illinois, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from California, Politicians from California, Businesspeople from Chicago, Politicians from Chicago, US Democratic Party politicians

Jay Robert "J. B." Pritzker (born January 19, 1965) is an American venture capitalist, entrepreneur, philanthropist, and private business owner based in Chicago. He is the 43rd and current Governor of Illinois since 2019.

Pritzker was managing partner and co-founder of the Pritzker Group, a private investment firm that operates middle-market service and industrial companies and invests in digital technology companies. He is a member of the Pritzker family, and has an estimated net worth of $3.4 billion. This makes Pritzker the richest officeholder in the country.

He ran as the Democratic Party candidate for Governor of Illinois in the 2018 election against Governor Bruce Rauner. His running mate was state legislator Juliana Stratton. Pritzker beat Rauner in the election in a landslide victory of 52% to 39%. His tenure as governor has been known for his response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Illinois.

[[2018 Illinois gubernatorial election]]

CATEGORIES: Elections in the United States, 2018 in Illinois

[[Daniel Biss]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American mathematicians, Politicians from Illinois, Scientists from Illinois, People from Skokie, Illinois, People from Evanston, Illinois, Politicians from Akron, Ohio, Scientists from Akron, Ohio, US Democratic Party politicians, State legislators of the United States, American mayors

Daniel Kálmán Biss (born August 27, 1977) is an American mathematician and politician. Biss is the Mayor of Evanston, Illinois since 2021. He was a member of the Illinois Senate from the 9th district, serving from January 2013 to January 2019. The district includes Chicago's northern suburbs, including Evanston, Glencoe, Glenview, Golf, Morton Grove, Golf, Northbrook, Northfield, Skokie, Wilmette, and Winnetka. 

Biss previously served in the Illinois House of Representatives from 2011 to 2013.

He was a candidate in the Democratic Party primary for Governor of Illinois in the 2018 election.

Biss announced his candidacy for Mayor of Evanston, Illinois in the 2021 election in November 2020. He won the election in a landslide victory in February 2021.

[[Scott Drury]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Politicians from Illinois, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Highland Park, Illinois

Scott Drury (born 1972) is an American politician. He is the Illinois state representative for the 58th district and a Democratic candidate for governor. The 58th district includes all or parts of Bannockburn, Deerfield, Glencoe, Highwood, Highland Park, Lake Bluff Lake Forest, Lincolnshire, Northbrook and North Chicago.

He was a candidate in the Democratic Party primary for Governor of Illinois in the 2018 election.

[[Ameya Pawar]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Chicago City Council members, US Democratic Party politicians

Ameya Pawar (born April 22, 1980) is an American politician. He is the alderman for the 47th Ward of the City of Chicago. He was first elected in the 2011 municipal elections, and was elected to a second term on February 24, 2015. Pawar's 2015 re-election was secured with over 82% of the vote, the largest margin in the election cycle. 

Pawar is the first Indian American and Asian American in Chicago City Council history.

He is a candidate in the Democratic Party primary for Governor of Illinois in the 2018 election. 

[[Kent Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, People from South Carolina

Kent Liston Lee (July 28, 1923 – August 11, 2017) was a Vice Admiral of the United States Navy. The 36-year veteran of the Navy saw combat in World War II and commanded the aircraft carrier Enterprise during the Vietnam War. He was best known for his work in driving the development and procurement of the F/A-18 Hornet.

Lee died in Charlottesville, Virginia on August 11, 2017 at the age of 94.

[[Perch Zeytuntsyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Armenian politicians, Armenian writers, Oriental Orthodox Christians, People from Alexandria, Playwrights, Screenwriters

Perch Zeytuntsyan (Պերճ Արմենակի Զեյթունցյան, July 18, 1938 – August 21, 2017) was an Egyptian-born Armenian playwright and screenwriter. He served as Minister of Culture of Armenia from 1990 to 1991.

In 1975, Zeytuntsyan became the executive secretary of the Writer’s Union of Armenia, a position he held until 1981. He went on to become the Minister of Culture in the first post-Soviet administration of the Republic of Armenia.

[[Vicente Iturat]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Spanish cyclists

Vicente Iturat Gil (22 August 1928 – 18 August 2017) was a Spanish cyclist. He won the Points classification in the 1957 Vuelta a España. He was born in Alcalà de Xivert, Spain.

Iturat died on 18 August 2017 in Vilanova i la Geltrú, Spain at the age of 88.

[[Chicago City Council]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Chicago

[[Susana Mendoza]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Politicians from Chicago, US Democratic Party politicians

Susana Mendoza (born May 13, 1972) is an American politician and the current Comptroller of Illinois. She formerly served as Chicago City Clerk and as a Illinois State Representative, representing the 1st District of Illinois – which included the Chicago communities of Brighton Park, Little Village, Gage Park and Back of the Yards. 

She was first elected in 2001 and served into her sixth term, when she won the election for Chicago City Clerk in February 2011.

On November 2, 2018 a video leaked from Mendoza’s campaign showing her plans to run for Mayor of Chicago in 2019 even though she successfully ran for re-election as Comptroller in 2018. Eight days after winning her re-election on November 14, Mendoza launched her mayoral campaign. She lost in the first round of the election.

[[City Clerk of Chicago]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Chicago

The City Clerk of Chicago is in charge of record-keeping for the city of Chicago and its elections. When the Chicago City Council is in session, the City Clerk serves as council secretary. This position is a citywide elected office.

The City Clerk's office is responsible for maintaining official city government records, distributing approximately 1.3 million vehicle stickers and residential parking permits, and issuing city business licenses.

The current city clerk is Anna M. Valencia since 2017.

[[Toni Preckwinkle]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Chicago City Council members, Politicians from Saint Paul, Minnesota, US Democratic Party politicians

Toni Preckwinkle (née Reed; March 17, 1947) is an American politician. She is the current Cook County Board President and a former alderman in the Chicago City Council representing Chicago's 4th ward in Cook County, Illinois, United States.

She was elected on November 2, 2010, as President of the Cook County Board, the Executive Branch of Cook County government. Preckwinkle first sought office in 1983 and was defeated twice before securing election in 1991 and being re-elected as alderman four times.

On September 20, 2018, Preckwinkle announced her candidacy for Mayor of Chicago in the 2019 election to replace Rahm Emanuel. She advanced to the runoff election on April 2. She was defeated by Lightfoot by nearly 50%.

[[Premier Guitar]]

CATEGORIES: Music magazines

Premier Guitar is a music magazine. A new issue is made every month. Articles in the magazine are usually about guitar players. The magazine has interviews, reviews, and information on how to play songs on guitar or bass guitar. The magazine started in 2007. .

[[Tove Alsterdal]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Swedish writers, Swedish journalists

Tove Kerstin Alsterdal, born on the 28th of December 1960 in Malmö, is a Swedish author, journalist and playwright.

In 2009 she made her debut with her first book in the thriller genre, ‘The Forgotten Dead‘, and has since been published in many countries worldwide.

She has also written manuscripts for movies and theatre, and been an editor for author Liza Marklund’s bestselling crime novels.

[[Stanisław Tym]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Polish movie directors, Polish screenwriters, Polish movie actors, Polish playwrights

Stanisław Tym born 17 July 1937) is a Polish movie director, screenwriter, dramatist and actor. Tym has directed one movie Ryś in 2007. He is best known for his role Ryszard Ochódzki in cult polish movie Teddy Bear and two sequels: Controlled Conversations and Ryś.

Tym was born in Małkinia Górna, Poland.

[[Mercedes-Benz O309]]

CATEGORIES: Buses, Mercedes-Benz automobiles

The Mercedes-Benz O 309 was the bus version of the Düsseldorfer Transporter, It was built by Mercedes-Benz from 1967 to 1986.

[[Willamette River]]

CATEGORIES: Portland, Oregon, Rivers of Oregon

The Willamette River is a major tributary of the Columbia River, accounting for 12 to 15 percent of the Columbia's flow. The Willamette's main stem is 187 long, lying entirely in northwestern Oregon in the United States. Flowing northward between the Oregon Coast Range and the Cascade Range, the river and its tributaries form the Willamette Valley, a basin that contains two-thirds of Oregon's population, including the state capital, Salem, and the state's largest city, Portland, which surrounds the Willamette's mouth at the Columbia.

Originally created by plate tectonics about 35 million years ago and subsequently altered by volcanism and erosion, the river's drainage basin was significantly modified by the Missoula Floods at the end of the most recent ice age. Humans began living in the watershed over 10,000 years ago. There were once many tribal villages along the lower river and in the area around its mouth on the Columbia. Indigenous peoples lived throughout the upper reaches of the basin as well.

[[Tony deBrum]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Marshallese people, Ambassadors, Activists, Politicians

Tony deBrum (February 26, 1945 – August 22, 2017) was a Marshallese politician and government minister. From 2012 and 2014, he was the Minister in Assistance to the President of Marshall Islands. He was an activist relating to climate change, and has been part of many conferences and demonstrations, including the People’s Climate March in New York City in September 2014.

In mid December 2015, he took part in the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference. He succeeded to form a new coalition between developed countries and developing countries called "High Ambition Coalition".

He was Foreign Minister of the Marshall Islands from 1979 till 1987, 2008 till 2009 and 2014 till 2016.

deBrum died at his home in Majuro, Marshall Islands on August 22, 2017 at the age of 72.

[[Litokwa Tomeing]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2020 deaths, Presidents of the Marshall Islands

Iroij Litokwa Tomeing (14 October 1939 – 12 October 2020) was a Marshallese politician. He was the President of the Marshall Islands from January 2008 until October 2009.

Tomeing died on 12 October 2020 in Springdale, Arkansas, two days before his 81st birthday.

[[Emlain Kabua]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Marshallese people, Artists

Emlain Kabua (born February 1928) is a Marshallese artist and political figure. She is the former First Lady of the Marshall Islands and the widow of former Marshallese President Amata Kabua. Kabua served as the first First Lady of the Marshall Islands from 1979 until 1996.

She is known for being the designer of the Flag of the Marshall Islands.

[[Flag of the Marshall Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Marshall Islands, National flags

The flag of the Marshall Islands, an island nation in the Pacific, was adopted upon the start of self-government, May 1, 1979. The flag was designed by Emlain Kabua, who was the first First Lady of the republic.

Rules about the flag are set forth in the Official Flag of the Marshall Islands Act 1979 (Public Law 1979-1).

[[Amata Kabua]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 1996 deaths, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Presidents of the Marshall Islands

Amata Kabua (November 17, 1928 – 20 December 1996) was a Marshallese politician. He was the first President of the Marshall Islands from 1979 to 1996.

Kabua died in office after a long illness, on December 20, 1996, in Honolulu, Hawaii, aged 68.

[[Margot Hielscher]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Berlin, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, German movie actors, German singers, German television actors, Musicians from Berlin

Margot Hielscher (29 September 1919 – 20 August 2017) was a German singer and actress. She appeared in over fifty movies between and 1939 and 1994.

Hielscher was born in Berlin. In 1957, she was chosen to represent Germany at the Eurovision Song Contest 1957 with the song "Telefon, Telefon" (Telephone, Telephone). The song finished fourth out of ten, with eight points.

Hielscher was chosen again to represent Germany at the Eurovision Song Contest 1958 with the song "Für Zwei Groschen Musik" (Music For Two Pennies). The song finished seventh out of ten, with 5 points.

In 1989, she starred in the TV series Rivalen der Rennbahn. 

Hielscher died in Munich on 20 August 2017, aged 97.

[[1970 California gubernatorial election]]

CATEGORIES: California elections, 1970 in the United States, 1970s in California

[[Jesse M. Unruh]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1987 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Cancer deaths in California, Politicians from California, American military personnel of World War II, Politicians from Kansas, US Democratic Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Jesse Marvin Unruh (September 30, 1922 – August 4, 1987), also known as Big Daddy Unruh, was an American Democratic politician. He was California State Treasurer. Unruh unsuccessfully ran for Governor of California against Ronald Reagan int the 1970 gubernatorial election. In 1973, Unruh ran unsuccessfully for Mayor of Los Angeles.

Unruh died of prostate cancer at his home in Marina Del Rey, California on August 4, 1987. He was 64 years old.

[[1966 California gubernatorial election]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 in the United States, California elections, 1960s in California

[[Madhukar Hiralal Kania]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Chief Justices of India, People from Bombay

Madhukar Hiralal Kania (M. H. Kania) (born 18 November 1927) is an Indian politician. He was the 23rd Chief Justice of India, serving from 13 December 1991 until his retirement on 17 November 1992. His uncle was Harilal J. Kania, the first Chief Justice of India. He was born in Bombay, India.

He began his legal career in 1964, and was appointed as a Judge of Bombay High Court in November-1971. In June 1986 he was appointed as Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court.

In May 1987, he was appointed as a Judge of the Supreme Court of India, and became the Chief Justice of India in December 1991.

[[Furna]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Furna is a municipality of the district Davos in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Manepalli Narayana Rao Venkatachaliah]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Chief Justices of India, Activists

Manepalli Narayana Rao Venkatachaliah (born 25 October 1929) is an Indian politician. He was the 25th Chief Justice of India. He served as Chief Justice from 1993 to 1994. 

Post retirement, he has continued to work on anti-corruption and human rights issues, including support for the launch of the Initiatives of Change Centre for Governance in 2003.

He served as the Chairman of National Human Rights Commission from 1996-1998 and in 2000 he headed National Commission to review the working of the Constitution.

[[Dipak Misra]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Indian politicians, Chief Justices of India

Justice Dipak Misra (born 3 October 1953) was the Judge of the Supreme Court and the Chief Justice of India. He took over as the 45th Chief Justice of India (CJI), succeeding the 44th CJI, Justice J. S. Khehar.

He was a judge of the Supreme Court of India and a former Chief Justice of the Patna and Delhi High Courts. He's the nephew of Justice Ranganath Misra, who was the 21st CJI during 1990-91.

[[Rishang Keishing]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Disease-related deaths in India, Indian politicians, Manipur

Rishang Keishing (25 October 1920 – 22 August 2017) was an Indian politician. He was a senior politician of the Indian National Congress party was a Member of the Parliament of India representing Manipur in the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of the Indian Parliament. Keishing served as Chief Minister of Manipur from 1980 to 1988 and from 1994 to 1997. He was from Bungpa village, Ukhrul District, Manipur.

He was the oldest serving parliamentarian in the world, his term at Rajya Sabha, the Upper House of Indian Parliament ends 9 April 2014.

Keishing died on 22 August 2017, aged 96, in Imphal, Manipur of multiple organ failure.

[[Boris Spremo]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple myeloma, Cancer deaths in Canada, Canadian journalists, Canadian photographers, Photojournalists, Yugoslavian people

Boris Spremo (Serbian Cyrillic: Борис Спремо; October 20, 1935 – August 21, 2017) was a Yugoslavian-born Canadian photojournalist. 

[[Matthew Kia Yen-wen]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Roman Catholic archbishops, Taiwanese people

Matthew Kia Yen-wen,  (Chinese language: 賈彥文; January 17, 1925 – August 22, 2017) was a Chinese Bishop of Hualien and Chiayi, and served as Archbishop of Taipei. From 2015 until his death in 2017, he was the Archbishop Emeritus of Taipei. He was born in Yuenshi Hsien. 

Kia was ordained on July 15, 1951 in Tainan, Taiwan. He was appointed the first Bishop of Chiayi on May 21, 1970 and installed on July 16, 1970. He was appointed Bishop of Hualien on December 14, 1974. He became the Archbishop of Taipei on November 18, 1978. He resigned on February 11, 1989.

Kia died on August 22, 2017 in Taipei, Taiwan at the age of 92.

[[Gordon M. Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Scottish writers

Gordon Maclean Williams (20 June 1934 – 20 August 2017) was a Scottish author. He was born in Paisley, Renfrewshire. He wrote for television and was the author of more than 20 novels, including From Scenes Like These (1969), shortlisted for the Booker Prize in 1969, Walk Don't Walk (1972) and Big Morning Blues (1974). Other novels include The Camp (1966), The Man Who Had Power Over Women (1967) and The Upper Pleasure Garden (1970).

He was a ghostwriter for the autobiographies of association footballers Bobby Moore, Terry Venables and manager Tommy Docherty.

In 1971, his novel The Siege of Trencher's Farm was controversially filmed as Straw Dogs. 

Williams died on 20 August 2017 in Glasgow, Scotland at the age of 83.

[[Gordon Williams]]

Gordon Williams may refer to:

[[Gordon Williams (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, English footballers

Gordon Williams (born 22 February 1929) is an English former footballer. He was born in Newcastle upon Tyne, England.

Williams played as a centre forward in the Football League for Sheffield United and Darlington. He made five league appearances for each club and scored once, for Darlington, on 4 November 1950 in a 3–2 home win against Scunthorpe United in the Third Division North.

[[Gordon E. Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, American military personnel of World War II, People from Nashua, New Hampshire

Gordon E. Williams (born 1935) is a retired United States Air Force officer. He was a command pilot with more than 4,000 flying hours, he flew numerous Air Force and Navy aircraft. Upon his retirement on 1 August 1988, he was the director for plans and policy, J-5, Headquarters United States European Command, Stuttgart-Vaihingen, West Germany.

He was the commander of the 81st Tactical Fighter Wing, being stationed at RAF Bentwaters, England, in 1980 at the time of the Rendlesham Forest incident.

[[Thomas Meehan]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winners, Drama Desk Award winners, Emmy Award winners, 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from surgical complications, American playwrights, American television writers, American screenwriters, Writers from New York

Thomas Edward Meehan (August 14, 1929 – August 21, 2017) was an American writer. He was best known for Annie, The Producers, and Hairspray. Meehan wrote books for musicals Young Frankenstein and Cry-Baby.  Meehan also co-wrote the book for Elf: The Musical and Limelight: The Story of Charlie Chaplin.

Meehan won a Primetime Emmy Award in 1970, six Drama Desk Awards, and three Tony Awards. 

Meehan was born in Ossining, New York, but grew up in Suffern, New York. He graduated from Hamilton College. 

Meehan died on August 21, 2017 in Greenwich Village, New York City from cancer and surgical complications at the age of 88.

[[James Joseph Dresnok]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Virginia, American educators, American military people, American movie actors, American teachers, Deaths from stroke, North Korean people, People from Norfolk, Virginia

James Joseph Dresnok (November 24, 1941 – November 2016) was an American defector to North Korea, one of six American soldiers to defect after the Korean War.

After defecting, Dresnok worked as an actor in propaganda movies, some directed by Kim Jong-il, and as an English teacher in Pyongyang. He was featured on the CBS magazine program 60 Minutes on January 28, 2007, as the last United States defector alive in North Korea. He was also the subject of a documentary movie, Crossing the Line which was shown at the 2007 Sundance Film Festival.

In April 2017, a Western news organization that focuses on North Korea reported that Dresnok had died the previous year. On 21 August 2017, Dresnok's sons confirmed that he had died of a stroke in November 2016.

[[Wilhelm Killmayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, German composers, German conductors, German educators, People from Munich

Wilhelm Killmayer (21 August 1927 – 20 August 2017) was a German composer of classical music, a conductor and an academic teacher of composition at the Hochschule für Musik und Theater München from 1973 to 1992. 

He composed symphonies and song cycles on poems by Friedrich Hölderlin, Joseph von Eichendorff, Georg Trakl and Peter Härtling, among others.

Killmayers first composition was Lorca-Romanzen after Federico García Lorca, premiered at the Donaueschingen Festival. In 1954 he composed a Missa brevis, which was recorded and reviewed:Young (29) Munich-born Composer Wilhelm Killmayer's Missa Brevis ripples with exciting, shifting rhythms and rises skillfully to a colorful series of blasting choral climaxes occasionally more reminiscent of the bandstand than the choir.

[[Cautín Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Cautín Province (Provincia de Cautín) is one of two provinces of the Chilean region of Araucanía (IX). The provincial capital is the city of Temuco.

[[Jim Whelan]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from surgical complications, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New Jersey, American mayors, Politicians from New Jersey, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US Democratic Party politicians

Jim Whelan (November 8, 1948 – August 22, 2017) was an American Democratic Party politician. He served in the New Jersey State Senate where he represented the 2nd Legislative District, from January 8, 2008, until his death.

Whelan died at age 68 of a heart attack as complications from kidney surgery on August 22, 2017 in Atlantic City, New Jersey. 

[[Greg Evers]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2017 deaths, Road accident deaths in the United States, Politicians from Florida, US Republican Party politicians

Robert Gregory "Greg" Evers (June 16, 1955 – August 21, 2017) was a Republican American politician. He served as a member of the Florida Senate from 2010 to 2016, representing parts of Northwest Florida. Before to his election to the Senate, he served as a member of the Florida House of Representatives, representing the 1st District from 2001 to 2010.

Evers was killed in a car crash on August 21, 2017, near his home in Baker, Florida, aged 62.

[[Dean Rusk]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1994 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, United States Secretaries of State, Anti-Communists, American military personnel of World War II, Politicians from Georgia (U.S. state), US Democratic Party politicians

David Dean Rusk  (February 9, 1909 – December 20, 1994) was an American politician. He served as the United States Secretary of State from 1961 to 1969 under presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. Rusk is the second-longest serving U.S. Secretary of State of all time, behind only Cordell Hull and tied with William H. Seward.

As Secretary of State he believed in the use of military action to combat communism. On March 24, 1961, Rusk released a brief statement saying his delegation was to travel to Bangkok and the SEATO nations' responsibility should be considered if peace settlements are not realized.

In 1964, Rusk said the US would not be pushed out of the Gulf of Tonkin and that the prevention of it becoming a "communist lake" would be assured by the continued presence of American forces there. 

During his later years, Rusk showed his support of Richard Nixon and his handling of the Cold War. 

Rusk died of heart failure in Athens, Georgia on December 20, 1994, at the age of 85.

[[Tom Pritchard]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, New Zealand cricketers, Centenarians

Thomas Leslie "Tom" Pritchard (10 March 1917 – 22 August 2017) was a New Zealand cricketer. He was born in Kaupokonui, Taranaki, New Zealand.

Pritchard played most of his first-class cricket in England. Pritchard was a genuinely fast right-arm bowler and a useful lower order right-handed batsman who played in several matches for Wellington before the Second World War. He said in 2013 that his 1939 memories of a game at the Basin Reserve and of playing for his country were still strong.   

In March 2017 he became only the third New Zealand first-class cricketer, after John Wheatley and Syd Ward, to reach 100 years of age.

Pritchard died at the age of 100 on 22 August 2017 in Levin, New Zealand of pneumonia-related complications.

[[John Abercrombie (guitarist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, American bandleaders, American composers, American guitarists, American jazz musicians, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York, Deaths from heart failure, Musicians from New York

John Laird Abercrombie (December 16, 1944 – August 22, 2017) was an American jazz guitarist, composer and bandleader. 

His work explored jazz fusion, post bop, free jazz and avant-garde jazz. Abercrombie studied at Berklee College of Music in Boston, Massachusetts. He recorded his debut album, Timeless with Manfred Eicher's ECM label, and recorded principally with this label since then. Abercrombie played with Billy Cobham, Ralph Towner, Jack DeJohnette, Charles Lloyd, Michael Brecker and Randy Brecker. He was known for his spare, understated and eclectic style and his work with organ trios.

Abercrombie died of heart failure in Cortland, New York on 22 August 2017 at the age of 72.

[[Roberto Gottardi]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Italian architects

Roberto Gottardi (30 January 1927 – 21 August 2017) was an Italian architect. He was known for designing buildings across Cuba in the aftermath of the Cuban Revolution. He designed the National Art Schools, which was commissioned by Fidel Castro.

[[Jerzy Leśniak]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Polish historians, Polish  journalists

Jerzy Leśniak (August 14, 1957 – August 20, 2017) was a Polish journalist and historian. He was born in Nowy Sącz, Poland.

His best-known book, Encyklopedia Sądecka (published in 2000, co-authored with Augustyn Leśniak and Karol Leśniak), has been so far the most comprehensive source and compendium of the region's history, as well as personal biographies and rare illustrations. He was also an editor-in-chief of a weekly regional magazine "Echo" and a quarterly "Nowy Sącz". During the years 2003-2006 he was a spokesman of the president of the city of Nowy Sącz.

Leśniak died in Warsaw, Poland on August 20, 2017 of a heart attack at the age of 60.

[[Mirosława Litmanowicz]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Polish chess players, Sportspeople from Warsaw

Mirosława Litmanowicz (Mirosława Kałęcka; 6 September 1928 – 18 August 2017) was a Polish chess player. She won the Polish Women's Chess Championship in 1968 and the FIDE Woman International Master in 1967. She was born in Warsaw.

Litmanowicz died on 18 August 2017 at the age of 89.

[[Joe Klein (baseball executive)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Businesspeople from Baltimore, Maryland, Sportspeople from Baltimore, Maryland

Joseph Anthony Klein III (August 22, 1942 — August 23, 2017) was an American professional baseball executive. He was born in Baltimore, Maryland.

Klein was the executive director of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball, an independent circuit that operates in the Northeast United States. Klein was a farm director, scouting director, and general manager in Major League Baseball from 1976 through 1995.

Klein served as the baseball executive for the Texas Rangers, Cleveland Indians, and Detroit Tigers.

Klein died on August 23, 2017 at a hospital in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania from complications of heart surgery at the age of 75.

[[Lateef Raji]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2017 deaths, Civil servants, Deaths from throat cancer, Nigerian politicians

Lateef Oludare Raji (12 October 1962 – 14 August 2017) was a Nigerian politician. He was the former special adviser on Information and Strategy to former Lagos State Governor, Babatunde Raji Fashola. He was also a commissioner to former Lagos state Governor Bola Tinubu.

Raji was a serving member of the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission committee (LASIEC) before his death.

Raji died of throat cancer at his home in Magodo, Nigeria on 14 August 2017 at the age of 54.

[[Joe Klein]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American political writers, American journalists, American historians, American novelists, Jewish American writers, American critics, Writers from New York City, People from New Rochelle, New York

Joe Klein (born September 7, 1946) is an American political columnist, writer, critic, historian and journalist. He works for Time magazine and is known for his novel Primary Colors.

Klein is currently a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and is a former Guggenheim Fellow. He has also written articles and book reviews for The New Republic, The New York Times, The Washington Post, Life, and Rolling Stone.

Klein was born in New York City to a Jewish family. He was raised in New York City and in New Rochelle, New York. Klein studied at the University of Pennsylvania. In 1967, he married Janet Eklund. They divorced in 1975. They had 2 children. He is now married to Victoria Kaunitz. They have two children.

[[Jay Van Andel]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2004 deaths, American billionaires, American Calvinists, American conservatives, American philanthropists, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Michigan, Businesspeople from Grand Rapids, Michigan, Richard DeVos

Jay Van Andel (June 3, 1924 – December 7, 2004) was an American businessman and billionaire. He was best known as co-founder of the Amway Corporation, along with Richard DeVos. He was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan.

He also served as chairman of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce from 1979 to 1980 and later as a member of its Senior Council from 1980 to 1985.

He was also known for funding religious missions and conservative political causes, including the Republican Party.

Van Andel was a member of the Christian Reformed Church in North America. He died of Parkinson's disease in Ada Township, Michigan on December 7, 2004, at the age of 80.

[[Amway]]

CATEGORIES: Companies based in Michigan, Richard DeVos, 1959 establishments in the United States

Amway (short for "American Way"; ˈ) is an American company specializing in the use of multi-level marketing to sell health, beauty, and home care products. Amway and its sister companies under Alticor reported sales of $9.5 billion in 2015.

It conducts business through a number of affiliated companies in more than a hundred countries and territories. Amway was ranked No. 29 among the largest privately held companies in the United States by Forbes in 2015 based on revenue, and No. 1 among multi-level marketing companies by Direct Selling News in 2016.

It was founded in 1959 by Jay Van Andel and Richard DeVos and is based in Ada Township, Michigan.

[[Malleco Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Malleco Province (Provincia de Malleco) is one of two provinces of the Chilean region of Araucanía (IX). The provincial capital is the city of Angol.

[[Troisdorf]]

Troisdorf is a town in the Rhein-Sieg-Kreis (district) in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.

It is 22 km south of Cologne and 13 km northeast of Bonn.

[[Kirtland, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Kirtland is a city in Lake County, Ohio, United States. The population was 6,866 at the 2010 census. Kirtland was the headquarters of the Latter Day Saints movement from 1831–1838.

[[Cock Lane]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in London

Cock Lane is a small street in Smithfield, London which runs east to Giltspur Street and west to Snow Hill.

It was known as Cokkes Lane during the Middle Ages - when the lane was known for it's legal brothels. However, it is most well known for the ghost that is said to be around the area since 1762. It is also known for being where Christian preacher and writer John Bunyan died of a fever in 1688.

The junction between this lane and Giltspur Street marks an area known as Pye Corner which serves as a marker for the furthest reach of the Great Fire of London. A monument, the Golden Boy of Pye Corner, marks this location.

[[Mass-to-charge ratio]]

CATEGORIES: Basic physics ideas, Mass spectrometry

The mass-to-charge ratio is a physical quantity (it is an amount that can be measured). The SI unit is kg/C, which is kilograms divided by the coulomb. Sometimes the charge-to-mass ratio is used instead.

In a vacuum, all particles with the same mass-to-charge ratio move in the same path, when in the same strength of electric and magnetic fields.

It is important for things like mass spectrometry.

[[Alain Berbérian]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2017 deaths, French movie directors, French screenwriters, People from Beirut

Alain Berbérian (Ալեն Բերբերյան; July 2, 1953 – August 22, 2017) was a French movie director and screenwriter. He was born in Beirut, Lebanon. He was known for directing La Cité de la peur, Le Boulet, and The Corsican File. He was also known writing the screenplay of Paparazzi.

Berbérian died on August 22, 2017 at the age of 63.

[[Jason Clarke]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Actors from Queensland

Jason Clarke (born 17 July 1969) is an Australian actor. 

Clarke is known for playing Tommy Caffee on the television series Brotherhood. He has also appeared in many movies such as Death Race (2008), Public Enemies (2009), Zero Dark Thirty (2013), White House Down (2013), Dawn of the Planet of the Apes (2014), Terminator Genisys (2015), Everest (2015) and Chappaquiddick (2017).

[[Heinz Lieven]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, German movie actors, German television actors, German voice actors, German stage actors, People from Hamburg

Heinz Lieven (born April 18, 1928) is a German actor. He was born in Hamburg, Germany. His career began in the 1950s. Lieven made his international movie debut in Aleksandar Petrovic's Group Portrait with Lady and played a former SS Officer named Aloise Lange in the 2011 movie This Must Be the Place.

[[Rachna Khatau]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American television presenters, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Actors from London, Singers from London, Actors from Chicago, Singers from Chicago, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California

Rachna Khatau (born 29 January 1981) is an British-American actress, singer and television host. She is known for her role as Sondra in the Freeform sitcom Baby Daddy appearing in the series from 2013 through 2017. As a singer, Rachna was previously signed to a record deal with a subsidiary label of Universal Records. She has hosted live shows and worked as a red carpet correspondent for Extra.

Khatau was born in London, England. She was raised in Chicago, Illinois. She received a master's degree in journalism at the University of Southern California.

[[Ancient Greek philosophy]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations, Ancient Greece, Philosophy

Ancient Greek philosophy started in the 6th century BC and continued during the Hellenistic period and Roman Empire. Philosophy was a way to think about the world. The term was invented in Greece. Back then it included the sciences, maths, politics, and ethics.

Greek philosophy is one of the foundations of Western culture. It has been referred to in Rome, Islamic philosophy, and the Renaissance and the Age of Enlightenment.

Greek philosophy may have been somewhat influenced by the ancient Near East. Some of the most important philosophers are Socrates, Aristotle, and Plato. Alexander the Great even learned Greek philosophy before conquering the Persian empire.

Many philosophers thought mathematics was important to all knowledge, and Euclid was one of the founders of mathematical thought. He wrote a famous book on geometry called The Elements.

[[Amelyn Veloso]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Filipino journalists

Amelyn Jean Veloso (April 25, 1974 – August 24, 2017) was a Filipina broadcast journalist of CNN Philippines. She was the anchor of morning show New Day, Morning Newsroom, and public service program Serbisyo All Access. She was born in Cebu City, Philippines.

She was a co-anchor of Solar Daybreak from 7 January 2013 until her death in 2017. until 2014. 

On August 24, 2017, Veloso died due to complications from liver cancer in Manila at the age of 42.

[[Michał Żebrowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Polish movie directors, Polish screenwriters, Polish movie actors, Polish playwrights, People from Warsaw

Michał Jan Żebrowski (born 17 June 1972) is a Polish actor and dramatist. He owns the theater 6 Piętro.

Żebrowski was born in Warsaw, Poland.

[[Lorain, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Lorain l is a city in Lorain County, Ohio, United States. The city is located in northeastern Ohio on Lake Erie. It is about 30 miles west of Cleveland. As of the 2010 census, the city had a total population of 64,097, making it Ohio's tenth largest city, the third largest in Greater Cleveland, and the largest in Lorain County by population.

[[Solar eclipse of August 21, 2017]]

CATEGORIES: August 2017 events, Eclipses

A total solar eclipse happened on August 21, 2017. It could be seen in the United States. A partial eclipse could be seen from northern Canada to northern South America, and in northwestern Europe, northwestern Africa, and the most eastern part of Asia.

[[East Lancs EL2000]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The East Lancs EL2000 is single-decker bus body built by East Lancashire Coachbuilders from 1989 to 1996 .

It could be built on the Volvo B10M, Volvo B6, Dennis Falcon, Dennis Dart, Dennis Lance, Scania K93 and Scania N113 chassis

It's had various facelifts through the years

[[Jay Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, Cancer deaths in California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American radio personalities, American television personalities, Actors from Texas

Jon Thomas Terrell (July 12, 1948 – August 24, 2017), professionally known as Jay Thomas, was an American actor, comedian, and radio talk show host. 

His well known television work included his role as Remo DaVinci on Mork & Mindy (1979–81), the recurring role of Eddie LeBec on Cheers (1987–89), the lead character Jack Stein on Love & War (1992–95), and a repeat guest role as Jerry Gold on Murphy Brown. 

Thomas won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series in 1990 and 1991 for playing Gold.

In 1997, he starred in the television movie Killing Mr. Griffin, based on the novel of the same name. In movie, he co-starred in Mr Holland's Opus and portrayed The Easter Bunny in The Santa Clause 2 and The Santa Clause 3. He was also an annual guest on The Late Show with David Letterman during the Christmas season. 

Beginning in 2005, he hosted The Jay Thomas Show on SiriusXM Satellite Radio, and was on every Friday afternoon on Howard 101.

Thomas died in Santa Barbara, California of throat cancer on August 24, 2017 at the age of 69.

[[Petorca Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Petorca Province (Provincia de Petorca) is one of eight provinces of the central Chilean region of Valparaíso (V). Its capital is the city of La Ligua.

[[Jack Rosenthal (journalist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, American journalists, Cancer deaths in New York City, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Israeli Jews, Jewish American writers, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Tel Aviv, Pulitzer Prize winners

Jacob "Jack" Rosenthal (30 June 1935 – 23 August 2017) was a Pulitzer Prize-winning American journalist, editor and executive. He was born in Tel Aviv during Mandatory Palestine. He was best known for his work at The New York Times. In 1982, he won the Pulitzer Prize for distinguished editorial writing on national politics and social policy.

Rosenthal was the president of The New York Times Company Foundation from 2000 to 2009. Thereafter, he was a senior fellow at The Atlantic Philanthropies from 2010 to 2014.

Rosenthal died on 23 August 2017 in Manhattan, New York of complications from pancreatic cancer at the age of 82.

[[Alan Boswell]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, English footballers

Alan Henry Boswell (8 August 1943 – 24 August 2017) was an English football goalkeeper who made 479 league and cup appearances in a 12-year career in the English Football League. He was born in Walsall, England.

He began his career at Walsall in 1961, before moving on to Shrewsbury Town in 1963. He spent five years at the club, before winning a move to First Division club Wolverhampton Wanderers in 1968. The next year he moved on to Bolton Wanderers, before signing with Port Vale in July 1972. He left Vale Park in May 1974, and later turned out for Oswestry Town.

Boswell died on 24 August 2017 at the age of 74.

[[Alan Sayers]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2017 deaths, New Zealand sportspeople, Journalists, Photographers, Centenarians

Alan John Sayers (6 December 1915 – 19 August 2017) was a New Zealand journalist, photographer and athlete. He was born Onehunga, New Zealand. 

Sayers represented The New Zealand Herald prior to World War II. When the war was over he was invited to join the Auckland Star where he was the first reporter in New Zealand to receive a personal by-line. In 1953 he was an official journalist on the tour of Queen Elizabeth 11 to the Pacific Islands and New Zealand.

Sayers died in Auckland on 19 August 2017 at the age of 101.

[[Anne-Aymone Giscard d'Estaing]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, First Ladies of France, Politicians from Paris, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing

Anne-Aymone Giscard d'Estaing, born Anne-Aymone Marie Josèphe Christiane Sauvage de Brantès on 10 April 1933 in Paris), is the widow of 20th President of France Valéry Giscard d'Estaing.

[[Bernadette Chirac]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Politicians from Paris, First Ladies of France

Bernadette Thérèse Marie Chirac (born Bernadette Thérèse Marie Chodron de Courcel; 18 May 1933) is a French politician and the widow of the former President Jacques Chirac.

[[Brigitte Macron]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, First Ladies of France, French educators, French politicians, People from Hauts-de-France, Teachers

Brigitte Marie-Claude Macron (bri.ʒit ma.ʁi klodə ma.kʁɔ᷉; née Trogneux, tʁɔ.ɲø, previously Auzière, o.zjɛːʁ; born 13 April 1953) is the wife and former high school teacher of Emmanuel Macron, the President of the French Republic. 

In 2015, to help support her husband in his political career, she ended her career as a teacher of literature at the elite lycée Saint-Louis de Gonzague in Paris.

Macron ran for the city council of Truchtersheim in Bas-Rhin in 1989, but lost. It would be the only time she would run for office.

In 2017, Brigitte Macron played an active role in her husband's presidential campaign; a top adviser was quoted as saying that "her presence is essential for him". Emmanuel Macron stated that upon his winning of the French presidency, his wife "will have the role that she always had with me, she will not be hidden".

[[Mary Wilson, Baroness Wilson of Rievaulx]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2018 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from stroke, English centenarians, English poets, Writers from Norfolk, Spouses of Prime Ministers of the United Kingdom

Gladys Mary Wilson, Lady Wilson of Rievaulx (12 January 1916 – 6 June 2018) was an English poet. She was the widow of Harold Wilson, who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in the mid- to late-1960s and mid-1970s. Her birth name was Gladys Mary Baldwin.

In 1970 her volume of poetry, Selected Poems, was published and in 1976 Wilson was one of three judges of the Man Booker Prize, the other judges being Walter Allen and Francis King.

In 2013, aged 97, she attended the funeral of Margaret Thatcher.

In 2016, she became the first spouse of a British prime minister to turn 100.

Wilson died on 6 June 2018, of a stroke, in London aged 102. She is the longest-lived spouse of a British prime minister in history.2022

[[Clarissa Eden]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, Writers from London, Spouses of Prime Ministers of the United Kingdom, British centenarians

Anne Clarissa Eden, Dowager Countess of Avon (née Spencer-Churchill; born 28 June 1920) is the widow of Anthony Eden, 1st Earl of Avon (1897–1977), who was British Prime Minister from 1955 to 1957. 

She married Eden in 1952, becoming Lady Eden in 1954 when he was made a Knight of the Garter, and then becoming Countess of Avon in 1961 on her husband's elevation to the peerage. She is also the niece of the prime minister Winston Churchill.

Her memoir, sub-titled From Churchill to Eden, was published in 2007 under the name of Clarissa Eden.

[[Double Dutchess]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 albums, Hip hop albums, Reggae albums, R&B albums

Double Dutchess is the second studio album, by American singer-songwriter Fergie. It was released on September 22, 2017. The album will be Fergie's first to be released on her own imprint Dutchess Music, a partnership with BMG Rights Management, and first since her debut album, The Dutchess (2006).

[[÷ (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 albums, Pop rock albums, Folk albums, Hip hop albums

÷ (pronounced "divide") is the third studio album by English singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran. It was released on 3 March 2017 through Asylum Records and Atlantic Records. "Castle on the Hill" and "Shape of You" were released as the album's lead singles on 6 January 2017.

both the album's lead singles.

[[Neunkirchen, Saarland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Saarland

Neunkirchen is a town-municipality in Saarland, Germany. It is the capital (Kreisstadt) of Neunkirchen District.

It had about 46,000 people in 2016.

Neunkirchen lies at an altitude of 252 m, on the Blies river, and about 20 km northeast of Saarbrücken.

It is the biggest settlement of Saarland after Saarbrücken.

[[Sør-Varanger]]

CATEGORIES: History of Russia, Municipalities of Norway

Sør-Varanger (Northern Sami: Máttá-Várjjat, Kven: Etelä-Varenki, Finnish: Etelä-Varanki, Russian: Сёр-Вара́нгер) is a municipality in the county of Troms og Finnmark, Norway. The administrative centre of the municipality is the town of Kirkenes. Other settlements in the municipality include the villages of Bjørnevatn, Bugøynes, Elvenes, Grense Jakobselv, Hesseng, Jakobsnes, Neiden, and Sandnes. Located west of the Norway–Russia border, Sør-Varanger is the only Norwegian municipality that shares a land border with Russia, with the only legal border crossing at Storskog.

[[Hurricane Harvey]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in the United States, August 2017 events, Hurricanes in Texas

Hurricane Harvey was a 2017 tropical cyclone, the 8th named storm, 3rd hurricane, and the 1st major hurricane of the hyperactive 2017 Atlantic hurricane season. Harvey was also the 3rd consecutive hurricane of the 2017 Atlantic hurricane season—after Franklin and Gert. The storm went through the Caribbean and Mexico. It threatened southern Texas, particularly the Corpus Christi and Victoria areas. The storm struck the state as a Category 4 hurricane on August 25.

The storm was the first major hurricane to make landfall in the United States since Hurricane Wilma in twelve years earlier.

The storm first developed on August 17, 2017, from a tropical wave to the east of the Lesser Antilles. It faded into an open tropical wave on August 19. But on August 24, Harvey redeveloped into a tropical storm, and then strengthened into a hurricane. On August 25, Harvey rapidly strengthened into a Category 4 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of at least 130 mph, and it made landfall in Texas as a low-end Category 4 hurricane. On August 26, Harvey stalled and rapidly weakened into a tropical storm in just a few hours after making landfall, resulting of dumping heavy rainfall and caused major and catastrophic flooding in parts of southeastern Texas especially the Houston metropolitan area.

Harvey was the strongest hurricane to hit Texas since Hurricane Carla in 1961.

Damage from Harvey was set around $125 billion. This and Hurricane Katrina in 2005 are both tied as the costliest tropical cyclones on record in the Atlantic and the United States history. Harvey is the wettest tropical cyclone on record in the United States, especially in Texas with rainfall accumulations of over 60 inches.

The storm killed just over 100 people in Texas alone.

The name Harvey was retired in April 2018 by the World Meteorological Organization and was replaced with Harold for the 2023 Atlantic hurricane season.

[[Year 2038 problem]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

The Year 2038 problem could affect computers that store time as the number of seconds since 1st January 1970 at 00:00 UTC, using a 32-bit number.

The biggest number you can store this way is 2,147,483,647 seconds after 1 January 1970.  This means 19th January 2038 at 03:14:07 UTC.  The problem begins one second after this time.  The computer will add 1 to this 32-bit number, and the computer will set the value to negative 2,147,483,648 seconds.  This means 13th December 1901 at 20:45:52 UTC.  Depending on how the computer has been programmed, the computer could behave incorrectly or even stop running.

A solution to this problem is to store the time in a 64-bit value, which will work for billions of years. Many computers already store the time in a 64-bit number.  Computers that store time in a 32-bit number will need to be reprogrammed before 2038.

[[Charlie Robertson (mayor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Pennsylvania, American mayors, Politicians from Pennsylvania, US Democratic Party politicians

Charles H. Robertson (April 12, 1934 – August 24, 2017) was an American Democratic politician. He was mayor of York, Pennsylvania from 1994 to January 2002. In May 2001, Robertson was charged for a murder during the York race riots in July 1969, but was acquitted in October 2002.

Robertson died of cancer on August 24, 2017 in York, Pennsylvania at the age of 83.

[[Kai Linnilä]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Finnish writers

Kai Linnilä (23 July 1942 – 24 August 2017) was a Finnish editor and writer. He was born in Oulu, Finland. He is the husband of the novelist Kaari Utrio. He takes responsibility for the importation and marketing of cigars and pipes in the Oy Amanita Ltd, the Utrios' family-owned company.

His best known works are Isoäidin kermakakku (The Grandmother's Cream Cake), Oman äidin lihapullat (The Own Mother's Meat Balls), Punainen tupa ja erämaa. Rikkaan arjen allakka (The Red Cottage and the Wilds. The Almanac of Rich Everyday Life) (with Seppo Saraspää), Wanhan ajan joulu (Christmas of the Old Time), Olaus Magnus: Suomalaiset pohjoisten kansojen historiassa (Finnish People in the History of Nordic Folks) (edited) and Linnut (The Birds).

[[Engelbert Jarek]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Polish footballers

Engelbert Jarek (7 June 1935 – 23 August 2017) was a Polish footballer. He was born in Rokittnitz, Hindenburg O.S., German Empire (today Rokotnica, Zabrze, Poland). Jarek competed in the 1960 Summer Olympics. He was known for managing and playing for Odra Opole.

[[Eduardo Angeloz]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Argentine politicians

Eduardo César Angeloz (October 18, 1931 – August 23, 2017) was an Argentine politician. He was a presidential candidate and Governor of Córdoba from December 11, 1983 to December 11, 1995. He was born in Río Tercero, Córdoba.

Angeloz died on August 23, 2017 in Cordoba, Argentina from complications of a fall at the age of 85.

[[Sergio Zaniboni]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Italian comics artists, Italian writers, People from Turin

Sergio Zaniboni (4 August 1937 - 18 August 2017) was an Italian comics artist and writer. He was especially known as the artist of numerous stories for Diabolik. He was born in Turin, Italy. His son Paolo Zaniboni is also a comic book artist.

From 1972 he also he collaborates with Il Giornalino, for which he produced Il Campione (a series set in the boxing world, written by Alberto Ongaro) and the police series Tenente Marlo, with stories by Claudio Nizzi.

[[Arnold Koller]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Presidents of the Swiss Confederation, Living people

Arnold Koller (born 29 August 1933) is a Swiss politician. He was a member of the Swiss Federal Council (1986-1999).

He was elected to the Federal Council of Switzerland on 10 December 1986. He was member of the Christian Democratic People's Party of Switzerland from the canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden. He handed over office on 30 April 1999.

Koller was Chairman of the Board of the Forum of Federations from 2006 to 2010.

During his time in office he held the following departments:

He was President of the Confederation twice in 1990 and 1997.

[[Fürstenau, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden, Cities in Switzerland

Fürstenau (Farschno) is a municipality of the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Grono, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Grono is a municipality of the district Moesa in the Swiss canton of Graubünden. On 1 January 2017 the former municipalities of Leggia and Verdabbio merged into the municipality of Grono.

[[Guémar]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Guémar is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Keith Warren]]

CATEGORIES: Pages created with the Article Wizard from 2017

Keith Warren was a 19-year-old black teenager who, on July 31, 1986, was found hanging from a tree in a wooded area in Silver Spring, Maryland. His death was ruled a suicide, though some fight to this day to reopen and solve the case. 

Warren had recently graduated from John F. Kennedy High School and had applied to college recently before his death. 

[[Independence, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Independence is a city in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, United States. The population was 7,133 at the 2010 Census.

[[Lawrence County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s establishments in Ohio, 1817 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Lawrence County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 62,450 people lived there. The county seat is Ironton.

[[Balmaseda]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in the Basque Country

Balmaseda is a municipality in the province of Biscay in the autonomous community of the Basque Country in Spain.

[[Fairlawn, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Fairlawn is a city in Summit County, Ohio, United States, and a suburb of Akron. The population was 7,437 at the 2010 census.

[[Lightning Rod (roller coaster)]]

CATEGORIES: Roller coasters in the United States, Wooden roller coasters, Launched roller coasters, Buildings and structures in Tennessee

Lightning Rod is a wooden roller coaster located at Dollywood near Pigeon Forge, Tennessee. It is manufactured by Rocky Mountain Construction.

Lightning Rod is the world's first and only launched wooden roller coaster.

[[SheiKra]]

CATEGORIES: Steel roller coasters, Roller coasters in the United States, Tampa, Florida, Roller coasters by name, 2005 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Florida

SheiKra is a roller coaster located at Busch Gardens Tampa Bay in Tampa, Florida. It is a Dive Coaster which means riders experience a moment of free fall. 

SheiKra was the first Dive Coaster. It is floorless and features a 90 degree drop.

[[Lin Jiamei]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, Living people, Chinese people, Politicians

Lin Jiamei (林佳楣; born 1924) is a Chinese civil servant. She is the widow of former Chinese president Li Xiannian. She was the First Lady of the People's Republic of China from 1983 to 1988.

[[Wang Yeping]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Chinese people

Wang Yeping (王冶坪, born February 12, 1928), is the wife of Jiang Zemin, former General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (de facto paramount leader) and President of the People's Republic of China (de jure head of state), and is a native of Yangzhou, Jiangsu.

[[Quillota Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Quillota Province (Provincia de Quillota) is one of eight provinces of the central Chilean region of Valparaíso (V). Its capital is the city of Quillota.

[[Barneveld, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wisconsin, Iowa County, Wisconsin

Barneveld is a village in Iowa County, Wisconsin. There is a public library called Barneveld Public Library.

[[Jeannie Rousseau]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, French people, World War II people, Spies

Jeannie Rousseau (Viscomtesse de Clarens) (April 1, 1919 – August 23, 2017)  was an Allied intelligence agent in occupied France during World War II. She was a member of Georges Lamarque's "Druids" network. Rousseau was born in Saint-Brieuc, France.

Codenamed AMNIARIX, she evaded Gestapo agents while gathering crucial information on the Germans' emerging rocket weapons programs from behind enemy lines.  Her intelligence reports, forwarded to London, led directly to the British raid on Peenemünde and to delays and disruptions in the V-1 and V-2 programs, saving many thousands of lives in the West. 

Rousseau was captured twice and spent time in three concentration camps.

Rousseau died on 23 August 2017 in Montaigu, France, aged 98.

[[Sardinians]]

CATEGORIES: People from Sardinia, Ethnic groups in Europe

Sardinians (Sardinian: Sardos or Sardus; Sardi) are the people native to the island of Sardinia, an autonomous region of Italy.

Sardinians are noted for the distinct Nuragic civilization in ancient times. They are also known for the indigenous language many still speak, Sardinian. Sardinian is quite separate from Italian and said to be one of the languages, if not the language, keeping most archaic features of ancient Latin. Sardinians have long been active to fight for the official recognition of autonomy in Italy and the protection of their cultural and environmental heritage.

[[Namborn]]

Namborn is a municipality in the district of Sankt Wendel in the state of Saarland, Germany.

Namborn is 7 north of Sankt Wendel. It is 25 southwest of Idar-Oberstein.

[[Sardinian language]]

CATEGORIES: Romance languages, Sardinia

Sardinian (Sardu, Limba or Lingua sarda) is a Romance language. It is native to the island of Sardinia, a Mediterranean island and autonomous region of Italy.

Sardinian is often seen as the closest language to Latin. It has had to fight for decades to get basic recognition by the Italian government.

[[Eure (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Normandy, Centre-Val de Loire

The Eure is a river in northwestern France. It is a left tributary of the Seine. The Eure and Eure-et-Loir departments are named after this river.

Its main tributaries are the Avre and the Iton.

[[Horst Sindermann]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1990 deaths, German atheists, German prisoners, Holocaust survivors, Members of the Volkskammer, People from Dresden, Politicians from Saxony, Politicians of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany, Prime Ministers of East Germany

Horst Sindermann (September 5, 1915 in Dresden - April 20, 1990 in East Berlin) was a German communist politician.

Sindermann was a member of the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) till 1946, and afterwards a member of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED).

During the war he was imprisoned in several concentration camps.

He was Prime Minister of East Germany from 1973 to 1976, and President of the Volkskammer from 1976 to 1989.

[[Abdul Kalam Vision India Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Tamil Nadu, 2016 establishments in India

Abdul Kalam Vision India Party is an Indian political party that was founded on 28 February 2016. The party was founded in the name of former president A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, by V. Ponraj, who was the scientific adviser to Bharat Ratna Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. However, the family of A.P.J. Abdul Kalam expressed their upset over the party using the Kalam's name and portrait as their symbols.

Preparation to the declaration of this political party, a two-day convention was held by United Vision India 2020, inviting V. Ponraj to lead a political party. The convention was conducted on 26 February 2016 without the presence of V. Ponraj and in the presence of V. Ponraj on 27 February 2016.This convention was conducted before the house of V. Ponraj at Thonugal village. The party has been started to achieve the vision 2020 of People's President - Bharat Ratna Dr. A.P.J.Abdul Kalam.

[[Dravida Kazhagam]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Tamil Nadu, 1938 establishments in Asia, 1930s establishments in India

Dravida Kazhagam (or Dravidar Kazhagam, "Dravidian Organization") was one of the first Dravidian parties in India. The party was founded by E.V. Ramasamy, also called Thanthai Periyar. Its original goals were to eradicate the ills of the existing caste system including untouchability and to obtain a "Dravida Nadu" (Dravidian nation) from the Madras Presidency i.e., a separate nation from India for Dravidian people alone.

Dravidar Kazhagam gave birth to many other political parties including Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. Dravidar Kazhagam is now headed by K.Veeramani.

[[Mika Brzezinski]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American activists, American television presenters, Television personalities from New York City, Journalists from New York City

Mika Emilie Leonia Brzezinski (ˈ; born May 2, 1967) is an American news presenter and author who currently co-hosts MSNBC's weekday morning broadcast show Morning Joe. Her father was National Secuity Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski.

In early 2017, Brzezinski became engaged to her co-host Joe Scarborough. They were married in 2018.

[[Edward Rowny]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiomyopathy, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Washington, D.C., American centenarians, American generals, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, American military personnel of World War II, People from Baltimore, Maryland

Edward Leon Rowny (April 3, 1917 – December 17, 2017) was a United States Army Lieutenant General of Polish origin. He was a commanding officer in World War II and Korea, a military advisor to five U.S. presidents and a negotiator on the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START).

Rowny died in Washington, D.C. on December 17, 2017 of cardiomyopathy at the age of 100.

[[Adam Wójcik]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Cancer deaths in Poland, Polish sportspeople, Basketball players

Adam Wójcik (20 April 1970 – 26 August 2017) was a Polish professional basketball player. He was known as one of the all-time greats in Polish basketball. He was the all-time leading scorer of the Polish PLK with 10,087 points scored. He was born in Oława, Poland. He was known for playing for Prokom Sopot from 2004 through 2007.

Wójcik died of leukemia on 26 August 2017 in Wrocław, Poland at the age of 47.

[[Peter Weck]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Austrian movie actors, Austrian television actors, Austrian stage actors, Austrian voice actors, Austrian movie directors, Actors from Vienna

Peter Weck (born 12 August 1930) is an Austrian movie director and actor. He was born in Vienna, Austria. 

Weck was known for his movie roles in Herzensfeinde (2001; he directed it) and Die Rosenkönigin (2007). From 1983 through 1986, he starred as the television role of Werner Schuman in the German sitcom Ich heirate eine Familie. Weck was known for directing Help, I Love Twins (1969). 

In 2004, he was awarded the Grand Decoration of Honour in Silver for Services to the Republic of Austria (Grosses Silbernes Ehrenzeichen).

[[Grzegorz Miecugow]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Poland, Polish writers, Polish journalists, Television presenters, People from Kraków

Grzegorz Miecugow (22 November 1955 – 26 August 2017) was a Polish television newscaster and journalist. He was born in Kraków, Poland. He was known for presenting the news programs Wiadomości and Fakty TVN. He was also a frequent columnist for Szkło Kontaktowe.

Miecugow died of cancer in Warsaw, Poland on 26 August 2017 at the age of 61.

[[Viola Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Baltimore, Maryland, Actors from New York City

Viola Harris (July 5, 1926 – August 23, 2017) was an American actress. She was born in Baltimore, Maryland. She was known for roles in television, theater and movies from the 1950s to the 2010s. 

Harris has appeared in a number of movies including The Other Guys, Choke, Deconstructing Harry directed by Woody Allen and Sex and the City 2.

In 2010, Harris starred in the short movie, The Secret Friend, directed by Flavio Alves. Harris received positive reviews for her role in the movie.

Harris was married to actor Robert H. Harris until his death in 1981.

Harris died on August 23, 2017 at her home in New York City at age 91.

[[Grüsch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden, 2011 establishments in Switzerland

Grüsch is a municipality in the district Davos in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Fanas and Valzeina.

[[Athens County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1800s establishments in Ohio, 1805 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Athens County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 64,757 people lived there. The county seat is Athens.

[[James Young Simpson]]

CATEGORIES: British physicians, History of medicine, 1811 births, British inventors

James Young Simpson (born June 7, 1811 in Scotland) was a qualified doctor by the age of 21 but changed to work as a clerk, due to his traumatic reaction to witnessing mastectomies during his medical training. He sat in several lecture courses as a student, but the anatomical lecture by a Doctor Knox made him choose the career path of midwifery and obstetrics. He became a qualified professor of midwifery at the age of 29, in 1840.

Due to his traumatizing observations of surgery as a student, he decided to experiment with anesthetics. He tried using ether and chloroform, but refused to use ether due to its bad odor. He discovered the anesthetic properties of chloroform, using it in obstetrics, to make childbirth easier and safer. He also invented a new design for the forceps, to make them safer to use. They are now known as "Simpsons' forceps". He was one of the earliest doctors to use midwifes in hospitals. 

Chloroform was a good idea, as it put people to sleep, making surgical procedures safer, pain-free, and better for the individuals. It was recognized as an achievement when Queen Victoria herself received chloroform to give birth to her fourth child.

[[Libertarian National Committee]]

CATEGORIES: United States Libertarian Party

The Libertarian National Committee (L.N.C. or LNC) is a group of people who coordinate the activities of the U.S. Libertarian party in all fifty states. The L.N.C. headquarters is in the nation's capital, Washington, DC. It also has state Libertarian party headquarters in state capitals.

In 2018, Chairperson is Nicholas Sarwark of Arizona and the Vice Chair is Arvin Vohra.

The Libertarian National Committee is a separate entity from the "Libertarian National Congressional Committee", a Federal Elections Commission registered entity, now doing business as the "Libertarian National Campaign Committee."

[[Guevenatten]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Guevenatten is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[David Bergland]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, 1984 United States presidential candidates, Deaths from prostate cancer, Politicians from Iowa, US Libertarian Party politicians

David Peter Bergland (June 4, 1935 – June 3, 2019) was an American politician. He was the United States Libertarian Party's nominee at the 1983 Libertarian National Convention for President of the United States in the 1984 presidential election.

Bergland died of prostate cancer on June 3, 2019, one day before his 84th birthday.

[[Nivigne et Suran]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 establishments in France, Communes in Ain

Nivigne et Suran is a commune in the Ain department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region of east France. It started on January 1, 2017 and has the former communes of Chavannes-sur-Suran and Germagnat in it.

[[Nicholas Sarwark]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Politicians from Phoenix, Arizona, Businesspeople from Arizona, US Libertarian Party politicians

Nicholas Sarwark (born August 27, 1979) is an American businessman and politician.

Sarwark is the chairman of the Libertarian National Committee (LNC), the executive body of the Libertarian Party (LP) of the United States. Prior to his election to that position in 2014, he served on several of the LP's national committees, as well as chair of the Libertarian Party of Maryland, and as vice chair of the Libertarian Party of Colorado.

Sarwark is currently running for Mayor of Phoenix in the 2018 mayoral election.

[[Yingluck Shinawatra]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, People from Bangkok, Prime Ministers of Thailand

Yingluck Shinawatra (ยิ่งลักษณ์ ชินวัตร, Yinglak Chinnawat, jîŋ.lák tɕʰīn.nā.wát; born 21 June 1967), nicknamed Pu (ปู, pūː, meaning "crab"), is a Thai businesswoman and politician.

Shinawatra is a member of the Pheu Thai Party who became the 28th Prime Minister of Thailand following the 2011 general election. Yingluck was Thailand's first female Prime Minister and its youngest in over 60 years. Also, she holds the distinction as the world's first female of Chinese descent to have had led the government of a UN member state. 

Shinawatra was removed from office on 7 May 2014 by a Constitutional Court decision that found her guilty on a charge of abuse of power.

On 2 September 2017, media said that "A search team has been set up to locate her and bring her before the Supreme Court, which issued a warrant for her arrest, to hear its ruling on Sept 27. The ex-premier faces a possible 10-year jail term if convicted of criminal negligence related to her government’s rice-pledging scheme".

[[Englewood, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Englewood is a city in Montgomery County, Ohio, United States. It is a northern suburb of Dayton. The population was 13,465 at the 2010 census. It is part of the Dayton Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Leukbach]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Germany, Geography of Saarland

The Leukbach is a river of Saarland, Germany. It is 15 m long. The drainage basin is 87.9 km².

[[Tigrinya language]]

CATEGORIES: Semitic languages

Tigrinya (sometimes written asTigrigna; t; T) is an Afroasiatic language of the Ethiopian Semitic branch. It is mostly spoken in Eritrea and northern Ethiopia. There are approximately 6,915,000 total speakers of this language. There are approximately 4,320,000 in Ethiopia and approximately 2,540,000 in Eritrea. Tigrinya is also spoken by emigrants from these regions, including some Ethiopian Jews.

[[Look What You Made Me Do]]

CATEGORIES: Taylor Swift songs, Taylor Swift, 2017 songs

"Look What You Made Me Do" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift.  It is the first single from her sixth studio album, Reputation.  The song was released on August 25, 2017, along with the pre-order of the album.  The song uses the rhythm of the 1991 song "I'm Too Sexy" by Right Said Fred.  Because of this, the songwriters of that song are credited.  This song is the first single released by Swift in almost a year, since "I Don't Wanna Live Forever" with British singer Zayn Malik in 2016.

In the US, the song became Swift's fifth chart-topper when it jumped from number 77 to number one in its second week on the Billboard Hot 100.  The song entered at the top of the charts in Canada, Australia, and the UK, becoming Swift's first UK number-one hit.  It was also number one in Spain and New Zealand.

The RIAA certified the song triple-platinum for shipments of three million copies across the US.

[[Reputation (Taylor Swift album)]]

CATEGORIES: Taylor Swift, 2017 albums, Pop albums, Electropop albums, Synth-pop

Reputation is the sixth studio album by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift.  It is her first studio album in nearly three years, after 1989 in 2014.  The first single, "Look What You Made Me Do", was released on August 25, 2017, along with the pre-order of Reputation.

Target Corporation released the album along with two versions of a magazine: a Volume 1 bundle and a Volume 2 bundle.

[[Murder of Adam Walsh]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 crimes in the United States, 1980s in Florida, 1980s murders in the United States, July events, Kidnapped American people, Murder in Florida

Adam John Walsh was a 6-year-old boy from Hollywood, Florida, United States. He was the son of John Walsh. On July 27, 1981, he was with his mother at the Hollywood Mall watching two older boys play video games. He was kidnapped. His head was found two weeks later on August 10, 1981. Ottis Toole was convicted of his murder. This led to John creating a new television series called America's Most Wanted.

[[Bill Bayes]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American conservatives, Businesspeople from New York, 2016 United States vice-presidential candidates, 2020 United States presidential candidates, Politicians from New York, Politicians from Mississippi

William "Bill" Bayes (born April 26, 1951) is an American businessman and politician. He is a member of the Prohibition Party, serving as the party's 2016 nominee for Vice President.

In May 2017, Bayes unsuccessfully ran for Ward 3 of the Hattiesburg City Council as a Republican, finishing third in the primary.

Bayes has announced his intention to seek the nominations of both the Prohibition and Constitution parties for president in the 2020 election. Bayes also created a page on Facebook to promote his campaign. Bayes received the Prohibition Party nomination on November 16, 2018, but withdrew as nominee and quit the party on March 30, 2019.

[[Amsterdam (city), New York]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New York

Amsterdam is a city in Montgomery County, New York, United States. As of the 2010 census, the city had a population of 18,620. The name is influenced from the city of Amsterdam in the Netherlands.

The city of Amsterdam is surrounded on the north, east, and west sides by the town of Amsterdam. The city developed on both sides of the Mohawk River, with the majority located on the north bank. The Port Jackson area on the south side is also part of the city.

[[Dan Rattiner]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, American radio personalities, American cartoonists, 2020 United States presidential candidates, Journalists from New York City, Politicians from New York City, Independent politicians in the United States

Dan Rattiner (born 1939) is an American journalist and newspaper publisher. 

In 1965, Rattiner co-founded the Manhattan-based underground newspaper The East Village Other with Walter Bowart, Allan Katzman, and John Wilcock. He also founded The Block Island Times in 1970. Rattiner hosted a weekly radio show, The Hamptons Report, on WQXR for six years during the 1990s.

On April 24, 2015, Rattiner announced his plans to run for President of the United States as an Independent in the 2020 presidential elections.

[[Izak Parviz Nazarian]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American billionaires, American philanthropists, American Jews, People from Tehran, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Jewish businesspeople

Izak Parviz Nazarian (February 24, 1929 – August 23, 2017) was a Iranian-born American billionaire businessman, investor and philanthropist. He was a managing partner of Omninet Capital, an investment company. He was born in a Tehran ghetto. He was Jewish.

In 2003, Nazarian founded the Citizens Empowerment Center in Israel (CECI), a non-partisan organization which promotes election reform in Israel.

[[Tobe Hooper]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (franchise), American novelists, American screenwriters, Movie directors from Texas, Movie producers from Texas, Writers from Austin, Texas

Willard Tobe Hooper (January 25, 1943 – August 26, 2017) was an American movie director, screenwriter, and producer. Hooper best known for his work in the horror movie genre; his most recognized movie include The Texas Chain Saw Massacre and Poltergeist. 

Stuart Heritage of The Guardian described The Texas Chain Saw Massacre as "one of the most influential films ever made".

Hooper’s first novel, Midnight Movie, was published on Three Rivers Press in 2011.

Hooper died in Sherman Oaks, Los Angeles on August 26, 2017 at the age of 74, and is survived by one son.

[[John A. Allison IV]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Washington, D.C., Libertarians, American political writers, Writers from Washington, D.C., Businesspeople from Charlotte, North Carolina, Writers from Charlotte, North Carolina

John A. Allison IV (born August 14, 1948) is an American businessman and the former CEO and president of the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C.. Allison held a number of leadership positions in BB&T Corp. from 1987 until 2010 when he retired. He now serves as a director at Moelis & Company.

[[Park and ride]]

CATEGORIES: Bus transport, Rail transport

Park and ride facilities are parking lots with public transport connections. They allow people to leave their vehicles and travel on a bus, train or carpool for the remainder of the journey. Park and rides are usually in the suburbs of metropolitan areas or on the outer edges of large cities.

Park and ride are shown as "P+R" on road signs in the UK.

[[Taxicab stand]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport, Street furniture

A taxicab stand (also called taxi rank, cab stand, taxi stand, cab rank, or hack stand) is a queue area on a street or on private property where taxicabs line up to wait for passengers.

[[Request stop]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport

A request stop, flag stop, or whistle stop is a stop, railway station or airport at which buses, trains or airline flights respectively stop only on request; only if there are passengers or freight to be picked up or dropped off.

[[Eugene Burger]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Cancer deaths in Chicago, American magicians, American philosophers, American historians, Entertainers from Chicago

Eugene Burger (June 1, 1939 – August 8, 2017) was an American magician. He was born in Chicago, Illinois. He was known for his close-up skills and his work in mentalism and bizarre magic. He was also a philosopher and a historian of religion.

Burger died of liver cancer in Chicago on August 8, 2017 at the age of 78.

[[Wilson das Neves]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Cancer deaths in Brazil, Brazilian singers, Brazilian musicians, People from Rio de Janeiro

Wilson das Neves (June 14, 1936 – August 26, 2017) was a Brazilian percussionist and singer. He was born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. He was a key figure in the history of Brazilian music.

[[Yitzhak Pundak]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2017 deaths, Ambassadors of Israel, Israeli centenarians, Israeli generals, Jewish centenarians, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish military people, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Kraków, Polish Jews, Israeli military people

Yitzhak Pundak, born Yitzhak Fundik (יצחק פונדק;  13 June 1913 – 27 August 2017), was an Israeli general, diplomat and politician. He turned 100 in June 2013. He was born in Kraków, Poland.

He moved to Mandatory Palestine in 1933.

Pundak received his first senior diplomatic point in November 1965, when he was made the Israeli ambassador to Tanzania. He later served as the ambassador responsible for Guatemala and El Salvador, and as the head of the Jewish Agency's delegation to Argentina at the height of the Dirty War.

He was also involved in local politics.

Pundak died in Tel Aviv, Israel at the age of 104.

[[Rail replacement bus service]]

CATEGORIES: Bus transport, Rail transport

A rail replacement bus service are buses that replace passenger train services. Rail replacement bus services are used if railway lines are being repaired or if railway stations are being upgraded.

[[Ocean Master]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters

Ocean Master (Orm Marius) is a fictional character, a supervillain published by DC Comics, and the brother of Aquaman. He was created by Nick Cardy and Bob Haney. 

Oceam Master was Aquaman's fully human half-brother, the son of Tom Curry (Aquaman's father) and a woman named Mary O'Sullivan. He becomes a villain because he grows jealous of Aquaman and how he becomes King of Atlantis. Ocean Master is full human. He later has amnesia and disappears. Several years later, the self-named Orm Marius reappeared as the Ocean Master, a high-tech pirate who initially attacked ships but quickly moved on to causing natural disasters in order to hold the world at ransom. 

Ocean Master will make his first movie appearance in the 2018 movie Aquaman played by Patrick Wilson.

[[Optare CityPacer]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Optare CityPacer was a step-entrance minibus that was built by Optare between 1985 and 1992. It was based on a Volkswagen LT55 van chassis and around 300 were produced.

[[Luis Ocaña]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish cyclists, 1945 births, 1994 births

Jesús Luis Ocaña Pernía (9 June 1945 – 19 May 1994) was a Spanish road bicycle racer. He won the 1973 Tour de France and the 1970 Vuelta a España. He was born in Priego, Cuenca, Spain.

Ocaña died in Nogaro, France at the age of 48.

[[Optare Soroco]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

The Optare Soroco was a step-entrance minicoach body that was built by Optare between 2008 and 2012. It was built for Mercedes-Benz Sprinter chassis.

[[Christian Reformed Church in North America]]

CATEGORIES: Calvinism, Christianity in the United States, Religion in Canada

The Christian Reformed Church (CRC) includes just over one thousand congregations across the United States and Canada. About 75 percent of the churches are in the United States; 25 percent are in Canada. It is one of only a few binational denominations: rather than split into different churches at the 49th parallel, it is united. Almost 300,000 people belong to the CRCNA—not a large number when you consider the population of the two countries.

[[Pedro Pedrossian]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Brazilian politicians, Deaths from heart failure

Pedro Pedrossian (13 August 1928 – 22 August 2017) was a Brazilian politician. He was born in Miranda, Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil.

Pedrossian was a member of the Party of National Mobilization. He served two terms as the Governor of Mato Grosso do Sul. The first term, from 1980 to 1983, was an appointed role, before being elected to office in 1991. His term ended in 1994. 

Pedrossian also served as the Governor of Mato Grosso between 1966 and 1971. 

Pedrossian died on 22 August 2017 in Campo Grande, Brazil of heart failure at the age of 89.

[[Josef Musil]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Olympic silver medalists, Olympic bronze medalists, Czech volleyball players

Josef Musil (3 July 1932 – 26 August 2017) was a Czech volleyball player. He won two Olympic medals, one bronze and a silver medal, in 1964 and 1968. He also won five world and three European championships medals in 1952–1967. He was born in Kostelní Lhota, Okres Nymburk, Czechoslovakia.

Musil died on 26 August 2017 in Prague, Czech Republic of a heart attack at the age of 85.

[[Ebrahim Yazdi]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Iranian politicians

Ebrahim Yazdi (26 September 1931 – 27 August 2017) was an Iranian politician and diplomat. He served as deputy prime minister and minister of foreign affairs in the interim government of Mehdi Bazargan, until his resignation in November 1979, in protest at the Iran hostage crisis. From 1995 until 2017, he headed the Freedom Movement of Iran.

[[Vance Trimble]]

CATEGORIES: Pulitzer Prize winners, 1913 births, 2021 deaths, American centenarians, American journalists, Writers from Arkansas, Writers from Oklahoma

Vance Harrison Trimble (July 6, 1913 – June 16, 2021) was an American journalist and writer. He was born in Harrison, Arkansas. He won the 1960 Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting.

Trimble was known for his national reporting about nepotism and payroll abuse in the U.S. Congress. In his life, Trimble has worked in the newspaper business for over fifty years. Trimble was inducted into the Oklahoma Journalism Hall of Fame in 1974. He has published numerous books since his retirement.

Trimble turned 100 in July 2013. He lived in Wewoka, Oklahoma. Trimble died on June 16, 2021 at the age of 107.

[[Divo]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1980 births, Canadian songwriters, People from Toronto, People from Guatemala City

Ivan Andres "Divo" Ramirez is a Canadian hip hop recording artist based in Toronto. Divo has released several albums featuring D. O., Classified, Dan-e-o, Eternia, D-Sisive and DL Incognito. In 2016, Divo's fourth album Transatlantic Soul won East Coast Rap Album of the Year at the Canadian Urban Television Hip Hop Awards.

[[Elena Anaya]]

CATEGORIES: Goya Award winners, 1975 births, Living people, Lesbians, LGBT actors, Spanish LGBT people, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors

Elena Anaya Gutiérrez (born July 17, 1975) is a Spanish actress.

Her career dates back to 1995. She starred alongside Antonio Banderas in Pedro Almodóvar's The Skin I Live In, for which she won the Goya award for Best Actress. She is also known for her roles in Habitación en Roma (Room in Rome) and Wonder Woman as Doctor Poison.

Anaya is a lesbian. In November 2016, it was announced that Anaya was expecting her first child with her partner, Tina Afugu Cordero, a costume designer. In February 2017, Anaya gave birth to their son.

[[Doctor Poison]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters

Doctor Poison is the name of two fictional characters, supervillains who appear in DC Comics publications and related media. Both villains were members of the super-villain team Villainy Inc. and have appeared as major recurring enemies for Wonder Woman.

The Princess Maru incarnation of Doctor Poison first appeared in Sensation Comics #2 and was created by William Moulton Marston and Harry G. Peter. The second Doctor Poison first appeared in Wonder Woman Vol. 2 #151 and was created by Eric Luke and Matthew Clark.

The original Princess Maru incarnation of the character made her first movie appearance in Wonder Woman, played by Spanish actress Elena Anaya.

[[Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, French footballers, Gabonese people, Borussia Dortmund squad

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang (born 18 June 1989) is a Gabonish football player. He plays for Arsenal F.C. and Gabon national team.

[[Afridun Amu]]

CATEGORIES: Afghan sportspeople, 1987 births, Living people, Surfers

Afridun Amu was the first Afghan athlete to internationally represent Afghanistan in surfing. He participated in the International Surfing Association World Surfing Games in Biarritz, France in May 2017. Amu also won the first official Afghan surfing championship (man) in 2015 in Ericeira, Portugal. He is the reining Afghan surf champion.when

Amu was born in Kabul, Afghanistan on June 23, 1987. He spent his childhood in Moscow, Russia, where his father worked as a diplomate. His family moved to Germany as political refugees in 1992. He graduated in law, cultural science and design thinking. He works as an expert in Constitutional law at the Max Planck Foundation for International Peace and the Rule of Law and is a lecturer on Design thinking at the Hasso Plattner Institute.

[[Kven language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Norway

The Kven language is a Finnic language spoken in northern Norway by the Kven people. 

In 2005 the language was officially given minority status in Norway. This was for political and historical reasons. The European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages has rules for the signs of a minority language. Linguistically, however, it is seen as a mutually intelligible dialect of the Finnish language. Because of this it is grouped together with the Peräpohjola dialects, such as Meänkieli, spoken in Torne Valley in Sweden.

[[Kven people]]

CATEGORIES: Norway, Nordic people

Kvens (Kven language/Finnish: kveeni, Norwegian: kvener, Northern Sami: kveanat) or Kven people are a Finnic ethnic minority in Norway. They are descendants from Finnish peasants and fishermen who moved from the northern parts of Finland and Sweden to Northern Norway in the 18th and 19th centuries. 

In 1996, the government of Norway officially said that Kvens were a minority group. In 2005, Norway officially made Kven language a minority language.

[[Jamie Dimon]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American billionaires, Democrats (United States), People with cancer, Businesspeople from New York City, Businesspeople from Chicago

James Dimon (ˈ; born March 13, 1956) is an American business executive. He is chairman, president and chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase, largest of the Big Four American banks. He served on the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

Dimon was named to Time magazine's 2006, 2008, 2009, and 2011 lists of the world's 100 most influential people. He was also named to Institutional Investor's Best CEOs list in the All-America Executive Team Survey from 2008 through 2011.

Dimon was diagnosed with throat cancer in 2014. In March 2020, Dimon had “emergency heart surgery.”

[[Lenke Lorán]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Hungarian movie actors, Hungarian television actors, Hungarian stage actors, Actors from Budapest

Lenke Lorán (1 May 1927 – 27 August 2017) was a Hungarian actress. She was born in Győr, Hungary. Her career began in 1935.

Lorán played mostly comedies, but he also had memorable shots in more serious characters. Her best known roles were in Nyári játék, Entanglement, and in 7-es csatorna.

Between 1945 and 1966, she was a member of the Theater of the Hungarian People's Army and the Petőfi Theater. Between 1966 and 1998, she played on the Amusement Stage. Between 1998 and 2011, she was a member of the Microscope Stage. She retired in 2014.

Lorán died of heart failure on 27 August 2017 in Budapest, Hungary at the age of 90.

[[Muzaffer İzgü]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Turkish writers, Children's writers, Turkish educators

Muzaffer Izgü (29 October 1933 – 26 August 2017) was a Turkish writer and teacher. He was known for his children's books and works of humour, and had authored 154 books, 98 of which were for children. He was born in Adana, Turkey. His first book, Gecekondu, was published in 1970 by Remzi Kitabevi. This was followed by İlyas Efendi (1971) and Halo Dayı (1972). 

Radical Niyazi Bey is a 2001 collection of his stories by Milet Books, in dual Turkish and English language translation by Damian Croft.

Izgü died on 26 August 2017 in İzmir, Turkey of liver cancer at the age of 83.

[[Mireille Darc]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, Cardiovascular disease deaths in France, Deaths from stroke, French models, French movie actors, French movie directors, French stage actors, French television actors, French voice actors, People from Toulon

Mireille Darc (miʁɛj daʁk; Mireille Christiane Gabrielle Aimée Aigroz; 15 May 1938 – 28 August 2017) was a French model, director and actress. She was Alain Delon's longtime co-star and partner from 1968 to 1982. She was born in Toulon, France.

Darc appeared as a lead character in Jean-Luc Godard's 1967 movie Week End. She was also known for her role as Christine in Le Grand Blond avec une chaussure noire and Le retour du grand blond. Darc is a Chevalier of the Légion d'honneur and Commandeur of the Ordre national du Mérite.

Darc died at a Paris hospital while in a coma after suffering a stroke on 28 August 2017, aged 79.

[[Fábio Barreto]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2019 deaths, Road accident deaths, Brazilian movie directors, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian screenwriters, Brazilian movie producers, People from Rio de Janeiro

Fábio Villela Barreto Borges (June 6, 1957 – November 20, 2019) was a Brazilian movie director, actor, screenwriter, and movie producer. He was best known for directing and co-writing Lula, o filho do Brasil, a biography based on President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's early life.

Barreto slipped into a coma after being involved in a car accident in Rio de Janeiro in 2009. As of August 2014, is reported to be in a minimally conscious state. He died on November 20, 2019 after almost 10 years in a coma.

[[Jean-Pierre Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, Senegalese footballers, French footballers, Deaths from surgical complications

Jean-Pierre Adams (10 March 1948 – 6 September 2021) was a French footballer. He played as a central defender.

[[Englewood]]

Englewood may refer to:

[[Elaine Duke]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Politicians from Virginia, Politicians from Ohio, US Republican Party politicians

Elaine Costanzo Duke (born 1958) is an American civil servant. On January 30, 2017, she was nominated by President Donald Trump to become the United States Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security under John F. Kelly. She became acting United States Secretary of Homeland Security on July 31, 2017 when John F. Kelly assumed the office of White House Chief of Staff.

On February 23, 2018, she announced plans to retire from her position as Deputy Secretary in April of the same year, after serving in the federal government of the U.S. for over thirty years.

[[Schumann resonances]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

A Schumann resonance is a resonant frequency of a set of several Extremely Low Frequency (ELF) oscillations of the Earth's electromagnetic field between the ground and reflective regions of the ionosphere, triggered by lightning.

[[Frank Press]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2020 deaths, American geologists, American physicists, Directors of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, Scientists from New York City, Writers from New York City

Frank Press (December 4, 1924 – January 29, 2020) was an American geophysicist. He was an advisor to four U.S. Presidents, and later, for two consecutive terms, was President of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences (1981–1993). He was the author of 160 scientific papers and co-author of the textbooks Earth and Understanding Earth.

Press served on President's Science Advisory Committee during the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, and was appointed by President Richard Nixon to the National Science Board. 

In 1977 he was appointed President Jimmy Carter's Science Advisor and Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, serving until 1981.

Press died on January 29, 2020 in Chapel Hill, North Carolina at the age of 95.

[[William Robert Graham]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American physicists, Directors of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, Scientists from San Antonio, Texas

William Robert Graham (born June 15, 1937) is an American physicist.

Graham was Chairman of President Reagan's General Advisory Committee on Arms Control from 1982 to 1985, a Deputy Administrator and Acting Administrator of NASA during 1985 and 1986, and Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and concurrently Science Adviser to President Reagan from 1986 to 1989. He then served as an executive in national security-related companies.

[[Office of Science and Technology Policy]]

CATEGORIES: Directors of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, 1976 establishments in the United States

The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) is a department of the United States government, part of the Executive Office of the President (EOP), established by United States Congress on May 11, 1976, with a broad mandate to advise the President on the effects of science and technology on domestic and international affairs.

The director of this office is also known as the President's Science Advisor. It is part of the United States Cabinet since 2021. The current director is Eric Lander since 2021.

[[George A. Keyworth II]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Cancer deaths in California, American physicists, Directors of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, Scientists from Boston, Massachusetts

Dr. George Albert Keyworth II (G. A. Keyworth) (November 11, 1939 – August 23, 2017) was an American physicist. He was a presidential Science Advisor (1981–1985) for President Ronald Reagan.

Keyworth was a board member of Hewlett-Packard who was asked to step down in light of the controversy surrounding disclosure of sensitive information to the media.  He resigned on September 13, 2006.

Keyworth died at his home in Monterey, California of prostate cancer on August 23, 2017 at the age of 77.

[[John Holdren]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Directors of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, American physicists, Scientists from Pennsylvania

John Paul Holdren (born March 1, 1944) is an American physicist and civil servant.

Holdren was the senior advisor to President Barack Obama on science and technology issues through his roles as Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, and Co-Chair of the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST)

[[Margaret Moser]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Cancer deaths in Texas, American historians, American music critics, Journalists from Chicago, Singers from Chicago

Margaret Moser (May 16, 1954 – August 25, 2017), or Margaret Moser Malone, was an American journalist, music enthusiast, critic and historian, groupie and backup singer. 

Moser was best known for her work as the director of the Austin Music Awards (AMA) in the South by Southwest festival and for her over thirty years of music journalism and criticism. Moser also supported young artists, helping them get started and finding appropriate venues where they could play. Moser has been called the "patron saint of Austin music" by the Paramount Theatre.

Moser died of colorectal cancer on August 25, 2017 at her home in San Antonio, Texas at the age of 63. 

[[Costas Simitis]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Eastern Orthodox Christians, Government ministers of Greece, Prime Ministers of Greece

Konstantinos G. "Costas" Simitis (Κωνσταντίνος Γ. Σημίτης; born 23 June 1936), sometimes called Costas Simitis or Kostas Simitis (Κώστας Σημίτης), is a Greek politician. He served as Prime Minister of Greece and was leader of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) from 1996 to 2004.

[[David Torrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, 2017 deaths, Peruvian people, American Olympians, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California

David Torrence (November 26, 1985 – August 28, 2017) was a Peruvian-American middle-distance runner and indoor American record holder in the 1000 meters (active). He was born in Okinawa, Japan, Torrence was raised in Tarzana, California. 

Torrence represented Peru at the 2016 Summer Olympics.

Torrence was found death at his condo in Scottsdale, Arizona on August 28, 2017 at the age of 31.

[[Rich Piana]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2017 deaths, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, Internet celebrities, Bodybuilders, People from Los Angeles, California

Richard "Rich" Piana (September 26, 1971 – August 25, 2017) was an American bodybuilder. He was born in Los Angeles, California. 

Piana won the Mr. California title along with competitions in Los Angeles in 2003 and Sacramento in 2009. His admission in 2016 that he used anabolic steroids as part of his regimen was controversial.  Piana often appeared in commercials and television series such as Scrubs and Ripley's Believe It or Not.

Piana died at age 45 on August 25, 2017 in Florida, after spending two weeks in an induced coma following a possible overdose.

[[Senarath Attanayake]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Sri Lankan politicians, Activists, People from Colombo

Attanayake Mudiyanselage Kithsiri Senarath Bandara Attanayake (5 August 1966 – 28 August 2017) known as Senarath Attanayake was a Sri Lankan politician and lawyer. He was born in Colombo, Sri Lanka.

Attanayake was a recipient of the 2016 Henry Viscardi Achievement Award. He is currently a member of the Uva Provincial Council, Sri Lanka and was the Minister of Agriculture, Irrigation, Livestock, Land and Forestry of the Uva Provincial Council from 2000–2005 as well as the acting Chief Minister for a brief period during this tenure.

Attanayake was a known disabled rights activist because he was paralyzed due to ALS.

Attanayake died on 28 August 2017 at a private hospital of ALS-relate complications in Colombo at the age 51.

[[Killing Reagan (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 drama movies, Movies based on books, Ronald Reagan, American television movies, American drama movies, Movies set in the 1980s, Movies set in Washington, D.C.

Killing Reagan is a 2016 American television drama movie. It was directed by Rod Lurie. It was written by Eric Simonson. It was produced by Ridley Scott. It is based on the 2015 book of the same name by Bill O'Reilly and Martin Dugard. The movie stars Tim Matheson, Cynthia Nixon, Joe Chrest, Geoff Pierson, Joel Murray, Jeff Harlan, Patrick St. Esprit, Kyle S. More and Michael H. Cole. The movie is about the months before and after the assassination attempt on Ronald Reagan. 

The movie premiered on October 16, 2016, on the National Geographic Channel.

Killing Reagan received three Critics' Choice Television Award nominations in its seventh annual awards.

[[Daniel Kraft]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American biochemists, Year of birth missing (living people)

Daniel Kraft is an American physician-scientist. Kraft serves as the Chair of Medicine & Neuroscience for Singularity University. Kraft is the founder and chair of Exponential Medicine. Kraft is a Fellow of the inaugural class of the Health Innovators Fellowship and a member of the Aspen Global Leadership Network.

[[Guthrum]]

CATEGORIES: 890s deaths, Denmark

Guthrum or Guðrum (died c. 890 AD), christened Æthelstan when he converted to Christianity in 878 AD, was King of the Danish Vikings in the Danelaw, the part of England ruled by the Danes. He is mainly known for his conflict with Alfred the Great.

[[Śruti (scripture)]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu texts

Shruti are the collection of vedic literature.

Śruti (Devanagari श्रुति, "what is heard") is a canon of Hindu sacred texts. They do not date to a particular period, but rather stretch across the entire history of Hinduism, beginning with the some of the earliest known Hindu texts, spanning into the modern period with the Upanishads.

Śruti has no author; rather, it is divine recording of the "cosmic sounds of truth", heard by rishi. They are timeless teachings transmitted to rishis, or seers, directly by God thousands of years ago. Sruti is thus said to be apaurusheya, "impersonal," or rather "suprahuman."

Sruti consists essentially of the Vedas and the agama, preserved initially through oral tradition and eventually written down in Sanskrit. Among the many sacred books of the Hindus, these two bodies of knowledge are held in the highest esteem. For countless centuries shruti has been the basis of philosophical discussion, study and commentary, and this attention has given rise to countless schools of thought. It is also the subject of deep study and meditation, to realize the wisdom of the ancients within oneself.

Most mantras are drawn from sruti, used for rites of worship, both public and domestic, as well as personal prayer and japa. It is a remarkable tribute to Hindu culture that so much of sruti was preserved for thousands of years without alteration by means of oral instruction from guru to shishya, generation after generation. In the Veda tradition this was accomplished by requiring the student to learn each verse in eleven different ways, including backwards. Traditionally sruti is not read, but chanted according to extremely precise rules of grammar, pitch, intonation and rhythm. This brings forth its greatest power. In the sacred language of shruti, word and meaning are so closely aligned that hearing these holy scriptures properly chanted is magical in it's effect upon the soul of the listener.

Ayush The Hacky

[[Used to Love You]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 songs, Gwen Stefani songs, Pop songs, Dance-pop songs, R&B songs

"Used to Love You" is a song recorded by American singer Gwen Stefani for her third studio album, This Is What the Truth Feels Like (2016). It was written by Stefani, Justin Tranter, Julia Michaels, Jonathan "J.R." Rotem and Teal Douville, and produced by Rotem.

[[Friderico-Francisceum]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Germany, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, 1879 establishments in Europe, 1870s establishments in Germany

The Friderico-Francisceum is a secondary school (“gymnasium”). It is in Bad Doberan, a town in Germany. The short name of the school is FFG.

Students from grade 7 to grade 12 go to the school.

[[Dmitri Kogan]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lymphoma, Violinists, Musicians from Moscow

Dmitri Pavlovich Kogan (Дмитрий Павлович Коган, October 27, 1978 – August 29, 2017) was a Russian violinist and an Honoured Artist of the Russian Federation. He was born in Moscow. He began playing the violin at the age of 6 in the Central Music School of Moscow State P.I. Tchaikovsky Conservatory.

Kogan has been a participant of world festivals of high prestige such as the Corinthian Summer Festival (Austria), Menton Music Festival (France), Montreux Jazz Festival (Switzerland), Perth Festival (Scotland), and music festivals in Athens, Vilnius, Shanghai, Ogden and Helsinki. He has also participated in the Chereshnevy Les Open-Art Festival, Russian Winter (Russkaya Zima) Festival, Music Kremlin Festival, Andrey Sakharov International Art Festival and many others.

In September 2014 the maestro was an Artistic Director of the First Arctic Classical Music Fest in the Nenets Autonomous Okrug. In September 2014 he was appointed as the Counsellor for Cultural Affairs to the Governor of the Nenets Autonomous Okrug.

Kogan died in Moscow on August 29, 2017 of lymphoma at the age of 38.

[[Natasha Yarovenko]]

CATEGORIES: Goya Award winners, 1981 births, Living people, Movie actors, Television actors, Models, People from Odessa

Natalia "Natasha" Yarovenko (Наталія (Наташа) Яровенко; born 23 July 1979) is a Ukrainian actress and model. She was born in Odessa, Ukraine.

In 2011 Yarovenko won two awards for the Best New Actress for her role in the movie Room in Rome, one at the Turia Awards and the other at the 25th Goya Awards.

[[Peerage of France]]

CATEGORIES: French nobility

The Peerage of France (Pairie de France) the exclusive prestigious title and position of Peer of France was held by the greatest, highest-ranking members of the French nobility, was a hereditary distinction within the French nobility which appeared in 1180 in the Middle Ages, and only a small number of noble individuals were peers. The title of 'Peer of France' was an extraordinary honour granted only to a small number of princes, dukes, counts of the Roman Catholic Church.

French peerage thus differed from British peerage (to whom the term "baronage", also employed as the title of the lowest noble rank, was applied in its generic sense), for the vast majority of French nobles, from baron to duke, were not peers.  It was analogous to the rank of Grandee of Spain in this respect.

It was abolished in 1789 during the French Revolution.

[[List of breakout characters]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of fictional characters

A breakout character is a character in serial fiction other than the intended main character who becomes a more prominent, more popular, discussed, and/or imitated individual. The series from which the breakout character springs may be in the form of a novel, magazine, television series, comic strip, game or combination.

[[Ununennium]]

CATEGORIES: Alkali metals, Chemical elements

Ununennium, or element 119, is a predicted chemical element. Its symbol is Uue. Ununennium and Uue are substitute names made by the IUPAC, (meaning "one-one-nine-ium" in Latin) until permanent names are made. Ununennium is the element with the smallest atomic number that has not been created yet. Qualities of Ununennium are unknown, but many are predicted. It is predicted all isotopes will be radioactive. It is thought to be an alkali metal.

Many attempts have been made by American, German, and Russian teams to make ununennium but all have failed. Japanese and Russian teams plan to work on it in 2019 and 2020.

[[Bill Skarsgård]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish voice actors

Bill Istvan Günther Skarsgård (born 9 August 1990) is a Swedish actor. He is known for his roles in Simple Simon, Allegiant, the TV series Hemlock Grove and for his role as the title character in  It: Chapter One (2017) and It: Chapter Two (2019).

[[Geoff Pierson]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Chicago

Geoffrey "Geoff" Pierson (born June 16, 1949) is an American actor. He is known for his role on The WB series Unhappily Ever After as Jack Malloy. He is also known for his roles on Ryan's Hope and Dexter and as James Baker in the 2016 television movie Killing Reagan.

In 2005 and 2006 he appeared in two episodes of Veronica Mars as Stewart Manning, the father of Meg Manning.

Pierson married Cali Timmins in 1997.

[[Hello Internet]]

CATEGORIES: Podcasting

Hello Internet is a podcast made by YouTube content creators CGP Grey and Brady Haran. It was started in January of 2014 and currently has 136 episodes, two bonus episodes, one episode which was released only as a vinyl record and one as a wax cylinder. Grey said that the podcast had 600,000 to 900,000 downloads per episode in August of 2017.

The podcast features discussions having to do with their lives as professional creators for YouTube, the content of their most recent videos as well as their interests and annoyances. Typical topics include how to behave on the internet, movie and TV show reviews, plane accidents, flags, future studies, Apple devices, and the differences between Grey's and Haran's personalities and lifestyles. Listeners can talk about the podcast in CGP Grey's subreddit, the Hello Internet subreddit, or Twitter, where the hosts are often active. Usually, each episode usually starts with feedback from listeners. The podcast has an official flag called the "Nail & Gear" which was decided by postal referendum.

[[SModcast]]

CATEGORIES: Podcasting

SModcast is a weekly podcast featuring filmmaker Kevin Smith and his long-time producing partner Scott Mosier, although guests are occasionally featured. Released each Sunday night/Monday morning, the episodes are generally one hour in length and feature Smith and Mosier discussing current events and other non-sequitur topics.

The name was derived from taking the first letters of "Smith" and "Mosier" and replacing the "P" in podcast. The podcast was originally distributed through Smith's entertainment website Quick Stop Entertainment. New episodes were made available for download each Sunday night or Monday morning, and are then released through the RSS feed the following Friday in order to ease bandwidth strains on the Quickstop Entertainment. On January 1, 2010, the host site was sold, the SModcasts were removed and a dedicated site was started. In addition, the one-week delay for iTunes subscribers was dropped starting with SModcast 101.

In September 2009, a book of Smith's favorite SModcasts called Shootin' the Sh*t with Kevin Smith was released.

[[The Memory Palace]]

CATEGORIES: Podcasting

The Memory Palace is a monthly historical podcast hosted by Nate DiMeo. The program features interesting historical narratives concerning such subjects as the Cardiff Giant and the CIA project Acoustic Kitty. It is currently distributed online by Radiotopia.

[[Layal Abboud]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Equestrians, Lebanese Muslims, Lebanese singers, Living people

Layal Mounir Abboud (ليال عبود:layāl ˈabˈboud; born on May 15, 1982) is a Lebanese pop-folk singer, sound-lyric poet,  concert dancer, fit model, Muslim humanitarian and businesswoman.

She wa born to a musical family in the Southern Lebanese Tyrian village of Kniseh. Abboud is a former ISF officer and studied English literature at Lebanese University. then, she stutied translation at Beirut Arab University and musical expression at the American University of Science and Technology. She appeared for the first time in the Studio El-Fan series debuts  as a South Lebanese competitor from 2001–02. Abboud's musical career got popular with the release of her first album Fi Shouq (في شوق: on longing) published in late 2007. She sings in different Arabic dialects. Abboud is a singer member in the Syndicate of Professional Artists in Lebanon.

[[Institut Mines-Télécom]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities, Colleges and universities in France, 1996 establishments in Europe, Paris, 1990s establishments in France

Institut Mines-Télécom is a renowned graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of the University of Paris-Saclay (Northern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen of nationalities participate to the different curricula at IMT.

[[Arrondissements of the Drôme department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

There are 3 arrondissements in the Drôme department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of Drôme are:

[[David Tang]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Cancer deaths in London, People from Hong Kong, Chinese businesspeople, Chinese philanthropists

Sir David Wing-cheung Tang, GBR (鄧永鏘; 2 August 1954 – 29 August 2017), was a Hong Kong businessman. He was best known for founding the Shanghai Tang fashion chain in 1994, which he sold in 1998 to Richemont. Tang's grandfather, Tang Shiu Kin, "founded the Kowloon bus company and became one of Hong Kong's greatest philanthropists".

Tang died on 29 August 2017 of liver cancer at a London hospital at the age of 63.

[[Dehumanizer]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums

Dehumanizer is the sixteenth studio album by Black Sabbath. The album was released on June 22, 1992.

[[Louise Hay]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, American activists, Writers from Los Angeles, California

Louise Lynn Hay (October 8, 1926 – August 30, 2017) was an American motivational author and the founder of Hay House. She authored several New Thought self-help books, including the 1984 book, You Can Heal Your Life. She was born in Los Angeles, California.

Hay died in Los Angeles of natural causes on August 30, 2017 at the age of 90.

[[Abdul Jabbar (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Bangladeshi singers, Recipients of the Ekushey Padak, Bangladeshi Muslims, Recipients of the Independence Day Award

Mohammed Abdul Jabbar (7 November 1938 – 30 August 2017) was a Bangladeshi singer. "Tumi Ki Dekhechho Kobhu Jiboner Porajoy", "Salam Salam Hazar Salam" and "Joy Bangla, Banglar Joy" were the three of his songs made to the top 20 all-time Bangla songs in 2006 survey by the BBC Bangla. 

Jabbar was awarded Ekushey Padak in 1980 and Independence Day Award in 1996 by the Government of Bangladesh.

Jabbar died of cardiac arrest in Dhaka, Bangladesh on 30 August 2017 at the age of 78.

[[Károly Makk]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Hungarian movie directors, Hungarian screenwriters

Károly Makk (December 22, 1925 – August 30, 2017) was a Hungarian movie director and screenwriter. Five of his movies have been nominated for the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival without success; however, he has won less awards at Cannes and elsewhere. He was born in Berettyóújfalu, Hungary.

In 1973, he was a member of the jury at the 8th Moscow International Film Festival.

In 1980, he was a member of the jury at the 30th Berlin International Film Festival. His 2003 film A Long Weekend in Pest and Buda was entered into the 25th Moscow International Film Festival.

From 27 September 2011 until his death, he served as the President of the Széchenyi Academy of Literature and Arts.

Makk died on August 30, 2017 in Budapest of a heart attack at the age of 91.

[[Rollie Massimino]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in Florida, Sportspeople from New Jersey

Roland Vincent "Rollie" Massimino (November 13, 1934 – August 30, 2017) was an American basketball coach and player. He was born in Hillside, New Jersey. 

Massimino was the head men's basketball coach at Keiser University in West Palm Beach, Florida, a position he had held since 2014, and at Northwood University from 2004-2014.  Massimino previously served as the head men's basketball coach at Stony Brook University (1969–1971), Villanova University (1973–1992), the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (1992–1994), and Cleveland State University (1996–2003).  

At Villanova, he led his 1984–85 team to the NCAA Championship. Entering the 1985 NCAA Tournament as an eighth seed, Villanova defeated their heavily favored Big East Conference foe, the Georgetown Hoyas, who had Patrick Ewing, in the National Championship Game. The upset is widely regarded as one of the greatest in North American sports history.

Massimino died on August 30, 2017 of lung cancer in West Palm Beach, Florida at the age of 82.

[[Sumiteru Taniguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from skin cancer, Deaths from lung cancer, Japanese people, Activists

Sumiteru Taniguchi was a Japanese postman and anti-nuclear activist. He was known for being a survivor of the 1945 atomic bombing of Nagasaki, Japan. He was a well known activist for a treaty prohibiting nuclear weapons. He was chairman of the Nagasaki Council of A-Bomb Sufferers.

Taniguchi died of lung and skin cancer on August 30, 2017 in Nagasaki at the age of 88.

[[Sunao Tsuboi]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, Japanese educators, Activists

Sunao Tsuboi is a Japanese anti-nuclear and anti-war activist and former teacher. 

He is a hibakusha, a survivor of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, and is the co-chair of Nihon Hidankyo, a Japan-wide organisation of atomic and hydrogen bomb sufferers. In 2011 he was awarded the Kiyoshi Tanimoto peace prize.

[[Lilia Dale]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, Living people, Italian movie actors, Italian stage actors

Lilia Dale (born 18 July 1919) is a retired Italian movie and stage actress. Her career began in 1937 and she retired in 1940. She was born in Pola, Istria, Italy.

Dale's movie list includes Il signor Max (1937), Nonna Felicità (1938), Mad Animals (1939), Who Are You? (1939), Red Tavern (1940) and in Manon Lescaut (1940).

[[Clyde and Willis (characters)]]

CATEGORIES: Animated characters

Clyde and Willis, created by Andrew Hendrich Wilson, are the title characters of the American-British-Chinese comedy television show The Clyde and Willis Show. The creator of the show, Andrew Wilson thought of the idea while he was drawing two stick-mans in his early years. He then thought of an idea about making the two stick-mans into a comic. He then animates the comic to the two characters we know to this very day.

They first appeared in the 2015 missing pilot episode "Clyde and Willis".o

[[Janine Charrat]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, French dancers, Ballerinas, People from Grenoble

Janine Charrat (24 July 1924 – 29 August 2017) was a French dancer and choreographer. She was born in Grenoble, France. She appeared in Ballerina at the age of 12, and went on to choreograph over 50 ballets. She was an officer of the Legion of Honour.

Charrat died on 29 August 2017 in Paris at the age of 93.

[[Janne Carlsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Cancer deaths in Sweden, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, Swedish musicians, Rock drummers, Jazz musicians, Actors from Stockholm, Musicians from Stockholm

Janne "Loffe" Carlsson (12 March 1937 – 31 August 2017), sometimes credited as Janne Carlsson, Jan Carlsson or Janne Karlsson, was a Swedish movie and television actor. He was also a skilled drummer, featured on several albums in Swedish 1970s and 1980s music. He was born in Stockholm, Sweden.

Carlsson was the 'Karlsson' of the Swedish jazz fusion/psychedelic rock duo Hansson & Karlsson that were active in the late 1960s.

Carlsson was known for his roles in Blushing Charlie (1970), Exponerad (1971), Repmånad (1979) and in Göta kanal eller Vem drog ur proppen? (1981).

Carlsson died on 31 August 2017 of liver cancer in Kristianstad, Sweden at the age of 80.

[[Ptolemy I Soter]]

With Eurydice:

With Berenice I:

Ptolemy I Soter (ˈ; Ptolemaîos Sōtḗr, Ptolemaeus; c. 367 BC – January 282 BC) was a general in the Greek army of Alexander the Great who was the king and pharaoh of ancient Egypt from 305/304 BC until he died. He was the first king of Egypt during the Hellenistic period. Ptolemy made Alexandria the capital city of Egypt. (The old capital was Memphis.) Ptolemy's children were the next kings of the Ptolemaic dynasty. This dynasty (line of rulers) controlled Egypt until the beginning of the Roman Empire.

[[Yale College]]

CATEGORIES: 1718 establishments, 1710s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in Connecticut, 1887 disestablishments, Disestablishments in Connecticut, 1880s disestablishments in the United States

[[Pougny]]

Pougny is the name of two communes in France.

[[Pougny, Nièvre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nièvre

Pougny is a commune. It is in the Nièvre department of central France.

[[Sigy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Seine-et-Marne

Sigy is a commune in the Seine-et-Marne department in the Île-de-France region of north-central France.

[[St. Marys, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pennsylvania

St. Marys is a city in Pennsylvania in the United States. According to the US 2010 census, 13,070 people lived there. 

[[Guewenheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Guewenheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Almere City FC]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in the Netherlands, Dutch football clubs, Flevoland

Almere City FC is a Dutch football club. The club was founded on September 14 2001, which has paid football since 2005. The Almeerse association was part of the Omniworld sports club. Until the 2009/2010 season, the club played under the name FC Omniworld.

[[Blood draw]]

CATEGORIES: Blood, Medical procedures

Blood draw is when blood gets taken from a vein using a hypodermic needle. It is stored in special blood bottles. These bottles are called vacutainers. There is usually a liquid or mist in the bottle that moves blood inside it.

[[John Clark (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English radio actors, English playwrights, English television directors, English television producers, Actors from London, Writers from London

Ivan John Clark (born 1 November 1932) is an English actor, director, producer and playwright. He was born in London.

Clark is probably best known for his role as Just William in theatre and radio in the late 1940s and as the former husband of actress Lynn Redgrave, to whom he was married for 33 years. 

However, he is best known as a stage actor and director after moving to the United States in 1960, and became known for his theatrical directorship of plays featuring Redgrave in the 1970s such as A Better Place at Dublin's Gate Theatre (1973), The Two of Us (1975), Saint Joan (1977–78), and a tour of California Suite (1976). 

In 1981, he co-directed the CBS television series  House Calls, which Redgrave starred in alongside Wayne Rogers.

[[Marjorie Boulton]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, British writers, British poets

Marjorie Boulton (7 May 1924 – 30 August 2017) was a British author and poet writing in both English and Esperanto.

Boulton taught English literature in teacher training and (from 1962 to 1970) as a college principal for 24 years before turning to full-time research and writing. She is a well-known writer in Esperanto. Boulton in her later years was president of two Esperanto organisations, Kat-amikaro and ODES.

[[Deaths in September 2017]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, September 2017 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in September 2017. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".  Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

[[Mike Cockerill]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Australia, Australian journalists, Australian television presenters, People from Adelaide

Michael Cockerill (20 November 1960 – 31 August 2017) was an Australian football (soccer) journalist. He was born in Adelaide, Australia.

Cockerill wrote for Fairfax newspapers, Fox Sports and formerly C7 Sport. He was also a football pundit and match commentator and appeared regularly on the football show Fox Sports FC.

In 2011, he was inducted into the Football Federation Australia Hall of Fame.

Cockerill died of pancreatic cancer in Adelaide on 31 August 2017 at the age of 56.

[[Egon Günther]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, German movie directors, German screenwriters, People from Saxony

Egon Günther (30 March 1927 – 31 August 2017) was a German movie director and screenwriter. He was born in Schneeberg, Saxony, Germany.

His movie Lotte in Weimar was nominated for the Palme d'Or at the 1975 Cannes Film Festival. In 1985, his movie Morenga was nominated for the Golden Bear at the 35th Berlin International Film Festival. He was a member of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany.

Günther died in Potsdam, Germany on 31 August 2017 at the age of 90.

[[Melissa Bell (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2017 deaths, Black British musicians, Singers from London, English singers

Melissa Cecelia Ewen Bell (5 March 1964 – 28 August 2017) was an English singer. From 1993 to 1996, Bell was one of the lead singers of British R&B act Soul II Soul, with whom she released a single titled "Wish". She also created her own band called Soul Explosion, which started in 1999. She also worked with Liza Minnelli, Whitney Houston, and Stevie Wonder.

[[Weilheim an der Teck]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Baden-Württemberg, Esslingen (district)

Weilheim an der Teck (Swabian: Weile) is a town in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is 7 km southeast of Kirchheim unter Teck, and 13 km southwest of Göppingen.

[[Weil der Stadt]]

Weil der Stadt is a small town in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. In 2015, 18,652 people lived there.

[[Cormac Murphy-O'Connor]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in London, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Deaths from bladder cancer, English Roman Catholics, People from Berkshire, Roman Catholic archbishops

Cormac Murphy-O'Connor (24 August 1932 – 1 September 2017) was a cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church, Archbishop of Westminster and President of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of England and Wales. He was created a cardinal by Pope John Paul II in 2001. He submitted his resignation as archbishop on reaching his 75th birthday in 2007; Pope Benedict XVI accepted it on 3 April 2009.

Murphy-O'Connor was born in Reading, Berkshire, England. He studied at Presentation College, Reading and at Pontifical Gregorian University. Murphy-O'Connor died on 1 September 2017 in London of bladder cancer at the age of 85.

[[Erna Schneider Hoover]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, American mathematicians, Scientists from New Jersey, Yale University alumni

Dr. Erna Schneider Hoover (born June 19, 1926) is an American mathematician from Irvington, New Jersey. She is known for inventing a  computerized telephone switching method which "revolutionized modern communication" according to several reports.This architecture used "stored program control" to achieve an unprecedented level of flexibility.

Hoover was awarded one of the first patents issued for software. It gave priority to processes concerned with the input and output of the switch over processes that were less important such as record keeping and billing. This provided more robust service to callers during peak calling times. Some of her work was done while she was recuperating from the birth of her second daughter in the hospital and at home.

Hoover received a B.A. from Wellesley College in classical and medieval philosophy and history in 1948. After graduating with honors in 1948, she was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa, an honor society of liberal arts and sciences, and was honored as a Durant Scholar.  She obtained a Ph.D. from Yale University in philosophy and foundations of mathematics in 1951. She was a professor in Swarthmore College from 1951 to 1954. Upon marrying her husband, Hoover found it difficult to secure a tenure track position, so she joined Bell Labs. Later, she worked on the development of the Safeguard Anti-Ballistic Missile System and subsequently became the first woman to head a technical department in 1978. She spent the next decade working on software applications with a particular focus on Artificial Intelligence (AI) and IMS-IBM/Unix based system communications. In 1987, after three decades of dedication to improving telecommunications as we know it, Dr. Hoover retired.

Dr. Hoover was keen on publicizing the importance of K-12 education, focusing on the lack of female representation in STEM. She created one of the first conferences for the Expanding Your Horizons program in association with the American Association of the University of Women and Girl Scouts of America. She continued with a fervent focus on education as she joined the New Jersey Board of Higher Education in 1983 and has served as a chairperson of the Trenton State College Board of Trustees since 1980.

Hoover was described as an important pioneer for women in the field of computer technology.

[[Irvington, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey

Irvington is a township in Essex County, New Jersey, United States. 

As of the 2010 United States Census, the township had a total population of 53,926, having declined by 6,769 (−11.2%) from the 60,695 counted in the 2000 Census, which had in turn declined by 323 (−0.5%) from the 61,018 counted in the 1990 Census.

[[Helli Stehle]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 2017 deaths, Swiss movie actors, Swiss centenarians, People from Basel

Helene Louise "Helli" Stehle (6 December 1907 – 27 August 2017) was a Swiss actress and radio presenter.

Stehle was born on 6 December 1907 in Basel, Switzerland. She began working in radio in the 1920s. In 1939, she became Switzerland's first female newscaster. She was also an actress. Her most notable movie was De Tod uf em Oepfelbaum from 1966.

She turned 100 in December 2007. When she died at the age of 109, she was one of the oldest living people in Switzerland.

[[James Drury]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City, Actors from Oregon, Actors from Houston, Texas, Businesspeople from New York City, Businesspeople from Oregon, Businesspeople from Texas

James Child Drury Jr. (April 18, 1934 – April 6, 2020) was an American actor and businessman. He is best known for his success in playing the title role in the 90-minute weekly Western television series The Virginian, broadcast on NBC from 1962–1971.

Drury was born in New York City, New York. He was raised in Oregon. In 1979, he married Carl Ann Head Drury. He had two children. Drury died from natural causes on April 6, 2020 in Houston, at age 85.

[[Guarda, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Guarda is a former municipality of the district Inn in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Guarda, Ardez, Ftan, Sent and Tarasp merged into the municipality of Scuol.

[[Yens]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Yens is a municipality in Morges in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

[[Vaugondry]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 disestablishments in Switzerland, Former municipalities of Vaud

Vaugondry was a municipality in the Jura-Nord vaudois district in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. On 1 July 2011 the municipalities of Fontanezier, Romairon, Vaugondry and Villars-Burquin joined together to become the new municipality of Tévenon.

[[Walliswil]]

Walliswil can mean:

[[Gundolsheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Gundolsheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Gunsbach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Gunsbach is a village and commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Habsheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Habsheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hagenbach, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hagenbach is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hagenthal-le-Bas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hagenthal-le-Bas is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Vaux-sur-Morges]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Vaux-sur-Morges is a municipality in the canton of Vaud, Switzerland. It is found in the district of Morges.

[[Kenton, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Kenton is a city in Ohio, United States. It is the county seat of Hardin County.

[[Scream (roller coaster)]]

CATEGORIES: Roller coasters in California, Steel roller coasters

Scream (also known as Scream!) is a roller coaster located at Six Flags Magic Mountain. It is a floorless-type roller coaster.

[[Monfero]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Galicia

Monfero is a municipality found in the province of A Coruña in the autonomous community of Galicia in Spain.

[[Salamence]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon monsters, Fictional dragons

Salamence is a character of the Pokémon anime and video game series. It is a Dragon/Flying type Pokémon. Salamence is a pseudo-legendary Pokemon. It has two pre evolutions. It has a base stat total of 600, one of the highest of all non legendary Pokemon.

Salamence also has a mega-evolution introduced in the games Pokemon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. When transformed, Mega Salamence has a base stat total of 700. This form is stronger than most legendary Pokemon and in competitive battling this Pokemon is in the uber tier, the tier where most legendaries are in.

[[Hato Hasbún]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Salvadoran politicians, Educators, Sociologists, Salvadoran writers

Franzi Hato Hasbún Barake (1946 – 30 August 2017) was a Salvadoran politician, sociologist and educator. He was born in San Salvador. He served as Minister of Education from 2012 until his death in 2017. He was a close advisor to former President of El Salvador Mauricio Funes.

Hasbún died in San Salvador of a heart attack on 30 August 2017 at the age of 72.

[[Motorcycle taxi]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport

A motorcycle taxi are a form of transport in some countries. The motorcycle taxi carries one passenger, who sits behind the motorcycle driver. In some countries two passengers will sit behind the driver.

[[June 29, 2012 derecho]]

CATEGORIES: Natural disasters in the United States, 2012 in the United States, June events

The June 2012 derecho was a natural disaster in the United States that occurred on June 29, 2012. A line of thunderstorms formed in the Midwest in the afternoon and tracked across the Ohio Valley and the Mid-Atlantic states. 28 people were killed and thousands were left without power for days due to a heatwave in the area.

[[Arrondissement of Die]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Die is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Drôme département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital is the city of Die.

[[Filippo Maria Pandolfi]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Italian politicians, European Union politicians

Filippo Maria Pandolfi (born 1 November 1927) is a former Italian politician, minister, and European commissioner. He was born in Bergamo, Italy.

Pandolfi was a member of the Christian Democracy party. He was elected to the Italian parliament in 1968, heading the list in electoral district of Brescia–Bergamo in 1976, 1979, 1983, and 1987.

Pandolfi was finance undersecretary in the Aldo Moro government from 1974 to 1976. In 1976 he became Minister of Finance, in 1978 Minister of the Treasury, then from 1980 to 1983 Minister for Industry and Trade, and finally from 1983 to 1988 Minister of Agriculture and Forestry.

From 6 January 1989 to 5 January 1993 he was the European Commissioner in the Delors Commission, having portfolio for Research and Development.

[[Martin Bangemann]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, European Commissioners, Former members of the German Bundestag, Former MEPs, German lawyers, Government ministers of Germany, MEPs for Germany, Politicians from Saxony, Politicians of the Free Democratic Party of Germany

Martin Bangemann (born 15 November 1934) is a former German politician. He was leader of the FDP (1985–1988).

Bangemann was the German Federal Minister of Economics from 1984 to 1988.

In 1988, Bangemann joined the European Commission. He was Commissioner for the internal market and industrial affairs in the Delors Commission from 1989 to 1995. He was then Commissioner for Industrial affairs, Information & Telecommunications Technologies in the Santer Commission from 1995 to 1999.  

Bangeman studied Law in Tübingen and Munich, earned a Dr. jur. (equivalent to J.S.D.) in 1962, and qualified as an attorney in 1964.  

[[Gloria Whelan]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, Living people, American children's writers, American novelists, American poets, Writers from Detroit, Michigan

Gloria Whelan (born November 23, 1923) is an American poet, short story writer, and novelist. She is known for children's and young adult fiction. Her book Homeless Bird won the National Book Award for Young People's Fiction in 2000.

[[Denny Crum]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Sportspeople from California, Sportspeople from Kentucky

Denzel Edwin "Denny" Crum (born March 2, 1937) is an American men's college basketball coach at the University of Louisville in Kentucky from 1971 to 2001 with a 675–295 record.

Crum guided the Cardinals to two NCAA championships (1980, 1986) and six Final Fours. Honored in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame since 1994, Crum is one of the major figures in the history of sports in Kentucky and in college basketball in general.

Crum was born in San Fernando, California. He studied at the University of California, Los Angeles.

[[Sam Pivnik]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in London, Polish writers, Holocaust survivors

Szmuel "Sam" Pivnik (1 September 1926 – 30 August 2017) was a Polish Holocaust survivor, author and memoirist. He was the second son of Lajb Pivnik, a tailor, and Feigel Pivnik. He was born in Będzin, Poland.

Pivnik was registered in Auschwitz and tattooed with prisoner number 135913. On 27 December 1943, Pivnik was admitted to the prisoner infirmary in the Quarantine area KL Auschwitz II-Birkenau, B IIa, Block 9, with suspected typhus. On 19 January 1945 the camp at Fürstengrube was evacuated in the face of the advancing Red Army and prisoners who were fit enough to move were, initially, marched to a railhead at Gleiwitz. 

Pivnik spent the next three months on construction work before he – together with approximately 200 other former Fürstengrube prisoners – were evacuated by barge along the River Elbe to Holstein in northern Germany.

Pivnik was liberated by the British Army in Neustadt on 4 May 1945. His memoir Survivor – Auschwitz, The Death March and My Fight for Freedom was published on 30 August 2012. 

Pivnik died in London on 30 August 2017, two days before his 91st birthday of pneumonia-related complications.

[[Marion Marshall]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Marion Marshall (born Marian Lepriel Tanner; June 8, 1929) is a American actress. She was born in Los Angeles, California.

From 1963 to 1971, she was married to Robert Wagner. From 1952 to 1959, she was married to director Stanley Donen. 

Marshall's first movie appearances were in the 20th Century Fox movies Gentleman's Agreement and Daisy Kenyon in 1947 (although they were both uncredited).  She went on to play roles (many minor) in over 25 more movies until 1967. 

Marshall had a small but significant role in his I Was a Male War Bride (1949). She was featured in three Martin and Lewis comedy movies, The Stooge, Sailor Beware and That's My Boy, with stars Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis.

[[Xiang Shouzhi]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2017 deaths, Chinese communist politicians, Chinese generals, Deaths from heart failure, People from Sichuan

Xiang Shouzhi (向守志; November 28, 1917 – September 2, 2017) was a Chinese general and revolutionist. He was born in Xuanhan County, Sichuan.

Xiang was promoted to the rank of major general (shao jiang) in 1955 and general (Shang jiang) in 1988. He was a member of the 11st National Congress of the Communist Party of China and the 12nd CPC Central Committee.

Xiang died on September 2, 2017 in Nanjing, China of heart failurecn at the age of 99.

[[María Luisa Dehesa Gómez Farías]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2009 deaths, Mexican architects, Mexican engineers

María Luisa Dehesa Gómez Farías (30 June 1912 – 11 March 2009) was a Mexican architect. She was born in Xalapa, Veracruz, Mexico. Dehesa worked for close to 50 years in the Federal District of Mexico City, primarily designing single-family homes and apartment buildings. She was the first Mexican woman to graduate with a degree in architecture.

She graduated in 1937, the first Mexican woman to graduate with a degree in architecture. Her thesis, which won honorable mention from the jurors, was entitled Artillery Barracks Type. It was accepted in 1939 and she attained her professional designation.

In 1974, she was announced as a joint winner of the Ruth Rivera Prize, together with the first Mexican female civil engineer, Concepción Mendizábal Mendoza. In 2006, the College of Architects of Mexico City, honored her for her contributions.

[[Frantz Yvelin]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, French Civil Aviation University, Aviation in France, French people

Frantz Yvelin is the current managing director of French airline Aigle Azur, since 2017.

Yvelin started his career in Information technology as consultant. Then, he founded two French airlines : L'Avion in 2006 and La Compagnie in 2013.

Also, he is a teacher in air transport at the French Civil Aviation University (Mastère Spécialisé degrees).

[[Jacques Maillot]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, French movie directors, French screenwriters, Living people, Besançon

Jacques Maillot (born 12 April 1962) is a French movie director and screenwriter. He has directed nine movies since 1993. His movie Nos vies heureuses was entered into the 1999 Cannes Film Festival.

[[Kleinbösingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Fribourg

Kleinbösingen is a municipality of the district See in the Swiss canton of Fribourg.

[[Galmiz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Fribourg

Galmiz is a municipality in See in the canton of Fribourg in Switzerland.

[[Oeste Futebol Clube]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Football clubs in São Paulo (state), 1921 establishments in Brazil

Oeste Futebol Clube is a football club which plays in Brazil.

[[FC Sion]]

CATEGORIES: Swiss football clubs, Sion, Switzerland, 1909 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Switzerland

FC Sion is a football club which plays in Switzerland.

[[Haldenstein]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Haldenstein is a municipality in the district of Landquart in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Zhao Wei]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Chinese movie actors, Chinese television actors, Chinese voice actors, Chinese movie directors, Chinese movie producers, Chinese singers

Zhao Wei (born 12 March 1976), also known as Vicky Zhao or Vicki Zhao, is a Chinese actress, film director, producer and pop singer. She is considered one of the most popular actresses in China and Chinese-speaking regions, and one of the highest paid actresses.

Over her 20 years acting career, Zhao has starred in many box-office smash-hits, including Shaolin Soccer (2001), Red Cliff (2008-2009), Painted Skin (2008), Painted Skin: The Resurrection (2012), Dearest (2014) and Lost in Hong Kong (2015). She has received numerous awards from the Shanghai International Film Festival, Huabiao Awards, Changchun Film Festival, Hundred Flowers Awards and Shanghai Film Critics Awards for films like A Time to Love (2005) and Mulan (2009). In 2014, after almost 2-year break from acting, she returned to the silver screen in Peter Chan's movie Dearest, and won the Hong Kong Film Critics Society Award and Hong Kong Film Award for Best Actress.

Her directorial debut So Young (2013) broke the box office record for movies directed by female Chinese directors in just a week. The movie also earned her multiple awards in mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, including Golden Rooster Award for Best Directorial Debut, Hundred Flowers Award for Best Director and Hong Kong Film Award for Best Film from Mainland and Taiwan.

Zhao was named as member of the main Jury at the 73rd Venice Film Festival.

Zhao Wei became a Goodwill Ambassador of the United Nations Development Programme on 20 November 2016.

[[Młoszowa]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Młoszowa mwɔˈʂɔva  is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Trzebinia in Chrzanów County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship in southern Poland. It is 3 km southeast of Trzebinia, 8 km east of Chrzanów, and 33 km west of the regional capital Kraków.

In 2004, 2,610 people lived there.

[[ClearArmor]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in the United States, Companies of the United States, Computers, 2010s establishments in Pennsylvania

ClearArmor is an American cyber security firm based in Riegelsville, Pennsylvania. ClearArmor is the first cybersecurity company focused on CyberSecurity Resource Planning (CSRP). ClearArmor was named one of the 20 Most Promising Cyber Security Solution Providers by CIOReview.

[[Bürserberg]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Bürserberg is a municipality of the district Bludenz in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg.

[[Joseph Deiss]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Presidents of the United Nations General Assembly, Presidents of the Swiss Confederation, Living people

Joseph Deiss (born January 18, 1946) is a Swiss politician. He is a member of the Christian Democratic People's Party (CVP/PDC). He was a member of the Swiss Federal Council from 1999 to 2006, heading first the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (1999–2002) and then the Federal Department of Economic Affairs (2003–2006). He was elected President of the United Nations General Assembly for its 65th session in 2010.

[[Martin Hub]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Czech movie actors, Czech television actors, Living people, People from Prague

Martin Hub (born March 13, 1964) is a Czech actor and stuntman. He was born in the Prague, Czech Republic, where he continues to live today, he acts in the stunt group Filmka. In 1992, he appeared in six parts of the American series, Young Indiana Jones.  He is best known for his appearances in movies such as Titanic (1997) , where he played the father of a small Slovak boy, Saving Private Ryan (1998) as Czech Wehrmacht Soldier, and he was Russell Crowe's stuntman in Gladiator (2000).

[[Free travel pass]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport

A free travel pass is when certain passengers can use buses, trains or trams without paying a fare or presenting a ticket. They may need to present an identification card produced by their employer, or by the transport provider.

[[Hinterrhein, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Hinterrhein (Valragn) was a municipality in Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. On 1 January 2019 the municipalities Hinterrhein, Nufenen and Splügen joined together to become the new municipality called Rheinwald.

[[Igis]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Igis (Eigias) is a former municipality in the district of Landquart in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2012 the former municipalities of Igis and Mastrils merged into the new municipality of Landquart.

[[Tamara Tchinarova]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Spain, Romanian writers, Ballet dancers

Tamara Tchinarova Finch (also tr. Chinarova; born Tamara Rekemchuk, July 18, 1919 – August 31, 2017) was a Romanian ballet dancer and writer. She was born in Cetatea Albă, Kingdom of Romania.

During the 1940s Tchinarova worked significantly to the development of Australian dance companies, including the Kirsova Ballet and the Borovansky Ballet. After retiring from dancing, she worked as a Russian/English interpreter for touring ballet companies, including the Australian Ballet, and as a dance writer.

Tchinarova was married to Australian actor Peter Finch from 1943 until they divorced in 1959.

Tchinarova died on August 31, 2017 at her home in Malaga, Spain of pneumonia at the age of 98.

[[Hagenthal-le-Haut]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hagenthal-le-Haut is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hartmannswiller]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hartmannswiller (Hartmannsweiler) is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hattstatt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hattstatt is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Seneca County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1824 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Ohio

Seneca County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 56,745 people lived there. The county seat is Tiffin. It is named for the Seneca Indians.

[[Hagenbach (disambiguation)]]

Hagenbach can mean:

[[Hagenbach (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Germany, Geography of North Rhine-Westphalia

The Hagenbach is a river in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.

[[Miiko Taka]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Japanese movie actors, Japanese television actors, Actors from Seattle, Washington, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Miiko Taka (born Miiko Shikata June 24, 1925), is a Japanese American actress. She is best known for co-starring with Marlon Brando as Hana-ogi in the 1957 movie Sayonara. She also worked  with James Garner, Bob Hope, Cary Grant, and Toshirō Mifune (whom she also worked alongside of in the 1980 television miniseries, Shõgun). 

Taka was born in Seattle, Washington, but raised in Los Angeles, California.

[[Fairborn, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Fairborn is a city in Greene County, Ohio, United States. It is near Dayton and Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. 32,352 people lived there in the 2010 census.

[[Markethill]]

CATEGORIES: County Armagh, Villages in Northern Ireland

Markethill is a village in County Armagh in Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom.

[[Fairview Park, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Fairview Park is a city in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, in the United States. At the 2010 census, the 16,826 people lived there.

[[Huber Heights, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Huber Heights is a city in Ohio, United States. It is in Montgomery, Miami and Greene counties. The city is named for Charles Huber who built many of the houses in the area. 38,101 lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Charles Gordon-Lennox, 10th Duke of Richmond]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, British politicians

Charles Henry Gordon-Lennox, 10th Duke of Richmond, 10th Duke of Lennox, 10th Duke of Aubigny, 5th Duke of Gordon (19 September 1929 – 1 September 2017), styled Lord Settrington until 1935 and Earl of March and Kinrara between 1935 and 1989, was an English peer and landowner. He was a Deputy Lieutenant of West Sussex from 1975 until 1990, and Lord Lieutenant from 1990 to 1994.

[[James Hamilton, 5th Duke of Abercorn]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, British politicians

James Hamilton, 5th Duke of Abercorn (born 4 July 1934) is a British nobleman, peer, and politician. 

Hamilton became Duke of Abercorn in the Peerage of Ireland on the death of his father in June 1979. He was the son of James Edward Hamilton, 4th Duke of Abercorn, and Lady Mary Crichton (daughter of Lt.-Col. Henry William Crichton, Viscount Crichton (1872–1914), eldest son of John Crichton, 4th Earl Erne). He is a former politician and Lord Steward of the Household.

[[James Graham, 8th Duke of Montrose]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, British politicians, Environmentalists

James Graham, 8th Duke of Montrose (born 6 April 1935), known as Earl of Kincardine until 1954 and Marquess of Graham between 1954 and 1992, is a Southern Rhodesia-born hereditary peer of the Peerage of Scotland and a British Conservative Party politician.

The Duke of Montrose was a shadow minister for the Scotland Office before the 2010 General Election. He has also spent some time in China promoting renewable energy and environmental measures, and he is a fluent speaker of Mandarin.

[[Helmut Oberlander]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2021 deaths, Canadian businesspeople, Holocaust perpetrators, Naturalized citizens of Canada, Soviet people, Ukrainian people, Waffen-SS people

Helmut Oberlander (15 February 1924 – 20 September 2021) was a Ukrainian-born Canadian citizen who was a member of the Einsatzgruppen death squads of Nazi Germany in the occupied Soviet Union during World War II. Oberlander was on the Simon Wiesenthal Center's list of most wanted Nazi war criminals.

Beginning in 1994, the Government of Canada has made repeated attempts to revoke Oberlander's citizenship.

In July 2017 the Government of Canada used an Order in Council to strip Oberlander of his Canadian citizenship for the fourth time.

Oberlander died at his home in Waterloo, Ontario on 20 September 2021, at the age of 97.

[[Arrondissement of Nyons]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Nyons is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Drôme département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital is the city of Nyons.

[[Disappearance of Etan Patz]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 deaths, 1970s in New York (state), 20th century in New York City, History of Manhattan, Kidnapped American people, Missing American people, Murder in New York

Etan Patz was a boy from New York City who was abducted on May 25, 1979 in the SoHo village. He was declared dead in 2001. His disappearance started the use of milk cartons for missing children in the United States.

[[Jo Frost]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Television personalities from London

Jo Frost (born 27 June 1970) is a British nanny who hosted a television program broadcasted in the United Kingdom called Supernanny, first aired in 2004. She later did the United States version, and it first aired in January 2005. Supernanny ended in March 2011 in the United States and 7 September 2012 in the United Kingdom. Frost now does Jo Frost: Nanny on Tour on the UP channel.

[[Bus garage]]

CATEGORIES: Bus transport

A bus garage or bus depot is a place where buses are stored and repaired. Bus garages can also be called a bus depot but in some countries a bus depot can also mean a bus station. In many areas, bus garages are on the site of former tram sheds, where trams were stored, before they were replaced with buses. In other areas, garages were built to replace horse-bus yards.

The largest bus depot in the world is Millennium Park Bus Depot In Delhi India.

Most bus garages will contain:

Garages may also contain recovery vehicles.

[[Bus depot]]

Bus depot may mean:

[[Peadar Lamb]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Irish movie actors, Irish television actors, Irish stage actors, Irish voice actors

Peadar Lamb (1930 – 1 September 2017) was an Irish stage, television and voice actor. He was born in Carraroe, Galway, Ireland.

Lamb was known for starring in many Irish language productions, for playing king Fin Varra in the television series Mystic Knights of Tir Na Nog and for lending his voice to old Piggley Winks on the Children's television series Jakers! The Adventures of Piggley Winks.

Lamb died in his sleep at his home in Glenageary, Ireland on 1 September 2017 at the age of 87.

[[Anyang (Henan)]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Anyang (安阳) is a city in northern Henan in the People's Republic of China.

[[Hebi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Hebi (鹤壁) is a prefecture-level city in northern Henan province, China.

[[Jiaozuo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Jiaozuo (焦作) is a prefecture-level city in northern Henan province, China. In 2010, 3,540,101 people lived there.

[[Puyang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Puyang (濮阳) is a prefecture-level city in northeastern Henan province, China. It is on the northern shore of the Yellow River.

[[Xinxiang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Xinxiang (新乡) is a prefecture-level city in northern Henan province, China. In 2010, 5,707,801 people lived there.

[[Kaifeng]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Kaifeng (开封) is a prefecture-level city in eastern Henan province, China. It was once the capital of the Song dynasty, and is one of the Eight Ancient Capitals of China. About 5 million people lived there in 2010.

[[Luohe]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Luohe (漯河) is a prefecture-level city in central Henan province, China. In 2010, 2,544,266 people lived there.

[[Zhoukou]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Zhoukou (周口) is a prefecture-level city in eastern Henan province, China. In 2010, 8,953,793 people lived there.

[[Pingdingshan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Pingdingshan (平顶山) is a prefecture-level city in central Henan province, China. It is also called Eagle City. In 2010, 4,904,701 people lived there.

[[Luoyang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Luoyang is a prefecture-level city in western Henan province, China. It has also been spelled Loyang. It is located by the Luo River and Yellow River. In 2010, 6,549,941 people lived there.

[[Nanyang, Henan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Nanyang (南阳) is a prefecture-level city in southwestern Henan province, China. In 2010, 10,263,660 lived there.

[[Sanmenxia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Sanmenxia (三门峡) is prefecture-level city in western Henan Province, China. Its name has also been spelled Sanmenhsia. It is on the south side of the Yellow River. In 2010, 2,234,018 people lived there.

[[Shangqiu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Shangqiu (商丘) is a prefecture-level city in eastern Henan in the People's Republic of China. Its name has also been spelled Shangkiu. Shangqiu was the first capital of the Shang dynasty. In 2010, 7,362,975 people lived there.

[[Xinyang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Xinyang (信阳) is a prefecture-level city in southern Henan in the People's Republic of China. It has also been spelled Sinyang. The city is located on the south bank of the Huai River. In 2010, 6,109,106 people lived there.

[[Xuchang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Xuchang (许昌) is a prefecture-level city in central Henan province, China. In 2010, 4,307,488 people lived there.

[[Zhumadian]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Zhumadian (驻马店) is a is a prefecture-level city in southern Henan in the People's Republic of China. It has also been spelled Chumatien. In 2010, 7,230,744 people lived there.

[[Derek Barber, Baron Barber of Tewkesbury]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2017 deaths, British politicians

Derek Coates Barber, Baron Barber of Tewkesbury (17 June 1918 – 21 November 2017) was a British member of the House of Lords. He also served as a senior civil servant and agricultural expert. He was born in Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, England.

He served as Chairman and later President of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds; President of the Gloucestershire Naturalists' Society; President of the Royal Agricultural Society of England; President of the British Pig Association; and a Vice-President of the Nature in Art Trust. Barber was knighted in the 1984 Birthday Honours and was created a life peer as Baron Barber of Tewkesbury, of Gotherington in the County of Gloucestershire, on 12 August 1992.

Barber was a member of the House of Lords until his retirement on 25 March 2016. He died on 21 November 2017 at the age of 99.

[[Jim Bridenstine]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, American military people, Administrators of NASA, Cornell University alumni, Majors, Politicians from Michigan, United States representatives from Oklahoma, US Republican Party politicians

James Frederick Bridenstine (born June 15, 1975) is an American politician. Bridenstine was the 13th Administrator of NASA from April 2018 to January 2021. He served as the United States Representative for Oklahoma's 1st congressional district, based in Tulsa, from 2013 to 2018. He is a member of the Republican Party. 

On September 1, 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Bridenstine to be the next Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

[[Export–Import Bank of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Banks of the United States

The Export–Import Bank of the United States (abbreviated as Ex-Im Bank or the Bank) is the official export credit agency (ECA) of the United States Federal Government.

Operating as a wholly owned federal government corporation, the Bank "assists in financing and facilitating U.S. exports of goods and services". Under its charter, the Bank does not compete with private sector lenders, but rather provides financing for transactions that would otherwise not occur because commercial lenders are either unable or unwilling to accept the political or commercial risks inherent in the deal.

Its acting chairman and president is Charles J. Hall, awaiting the nomination and confirmation of a replacement for former chairman and president Fred Hochberg.

[[Scott Garrett]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Businesspeople from New Jersey, United States representatives from New Jersey, US Republican Party politicians

Ernest Scott Garrett (born July 9, 1959) is an American politician and banker.

Garrett was the U.S. Representative for NJ, serving from 2003 to 2017. He is a member of the Republican Party. He previously served in the New Jersey General Assembly from 1992 to 2003.

Garrett chaired the powerful United States House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government-Sponsored Enterprises. He lost his 2016 reelection campaign and was succeeded by Josh Gottheimer, a Democrat.

On June 19, 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Garrett to become chairman and president of the Export–Import Bank of the United States, a post that requires confirmation by the United States Senate. In a 10-13 vote on December 19, 2017, the Senate Banking Committee declined to advance his nomination.

[[Office of National Drug Control Policy]]

CATEGORIES: Executive branch of the United States government, 1989 establishments in the United States

The Office of National Drug Control Policy is a part of the Executive Office of the President of the United States. 

[[Tom Marino]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, American lawyers, United States representatives from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

Thomas Anthony Marino (born August 13, 1952) is an American politician and attorney. He was the U.S. Representative for PA from 2011 to 2019. He is a member of the Republican Party.  

On September 1, 2017, The White House announced that President Donald Trump nominated Marino as the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. He withdrew on October 17, 2017 following reports that he championed a bill that protected opioid manufacturers and prevented DEA agents from being able to battle the Opioid Epidemic.

[[United States Agency for International Development]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 establishments in the United States, Executive branch of the United States government

The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is the United States Government agency which is primarily responsible for administering civilian foreign aid.

[[Mark Andrew Green]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, United States representatives from Wisconsin, US Republican Party politicians, State legislators of the United States

Mark Andrew Green (born June 1, 1960) is an American politician and diplomat. He is a member of the Republican Party.

Green was in the Wisconsin State Assembly from 1993 to 1999. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1999 to 2007, representing Wisconsin. He ran unsuccessfully for Governor of Wisconsin in 2006. He was the United States Ambassador to Tanzania from August 2007 until January 2009.

In 2014, he became the president of the International Republican Institute, and sits on the board of directors of the Millennium Challenge Corporation.

On May 10, 2017, President Donald Trump chose Green to lead the United States Agency for International Development. Green was confirmed on August 3, and sworn in on August 7, 2017. He resigned in April 2020.

[[Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 establishments in the United States, United States Department of Health and Human Services

The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), previously known as the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), is a federal agency within the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that administers the Medicare program and works in partnership with state governments to administer Medicaid, the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), and health insurance portability standards.

In addition to these programs, CMS has other responsibilities, including the administrative simplification standards from the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), quality standards in long-term care facilities (more commonly referred to as nursing homes) through its survey and certification process, clinical laboratory quality standards under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments, and oversight of HealthCare.gov.

[[Seema Verma]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Indiana, Johns Hopkins University alumni, Politicians from Indiana, US Republican Party politicians

Seema Verma (born September 27, 1970) is an American health policy consultant. She was the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, serving under the Trump Administration from 2017 to 2021. She is the founder and CEO of SVC Inc., a health policy consulting firm.

[[Ajit Pai]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Buffalo, New York, Politicians from Buffalo, New York, Politicians from Kansas, Businesspeople from Kansas, US Republican Party politicians, Chairmen of the Federal Communications Commission

Ajit Varadaraj Pai (born January 10, 1973) is an American attorney. He served as the Chairman of the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) from 2017 to 2021. He is the first Indian American to hold the office.

[[Scott Gottlieb]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American educators, American physicians, Commissioners of the Food and Drug Administration, Scientists from New York, Politicians from New York, US Republican Party politicians

Scott Gottlieb is an American physician. Gottlieb was commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration from 2017 to 2019.

Gottlieb was a clinical assistant professor at New York University School of Medicine, a resident fellow at the conservative think tank the American Enterprise Institute, and an internist at Tisch Hospital.

[[U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission]]

CATEGORIES: United States federal executive departments

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is an independent agency of the United States federal government.

[[Jay Clayton]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American lawyers, Members of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Politicians from New York, Businesspeople from New York, Politicians from Pennsylvania, Businesspeople from Pennsylvania, Businesspeople from Virginia, People from Newport News, Virginia

Walter J. "Jay" Clayton III (born July 11, 1966) is an American attorney. He was the 32nd Chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from May 4, 2017 until December 23, 2020.

From 1993 to 1995, Clayton clerked for Marvin Katz, judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

At Sullivan & Cromwell, Clayton was co-managing partner of the firm's General Practice Group.

On January 4, 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Clayton to be SEC Chairman. On May 2, 2017, the U.S. Senate voted 61-37 to confirm Clayton as Chairman of the SEC. Votes cast in favor of Clayton's confirmation included nine Democrats and one Independent alongside 51 Republican votes. On May 4, 2017, Clayton was sworn in, marking the official beginning of his role as Chairman.

On June 19, 2020, United States Attorney General Bill Barr announced that President Trump would nominate Clayton to replace Geoffrey Berman as United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York.

[[Richard Grenell]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, LGBT politicians, Gay men, Ambassadors of the United States to Germany, American conservatives, Cancer survivors, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Michigan

Richard Allen Grenell (born  September 18, 1966) is an American media commentator and diplomat. Grenell was the acting Director of National Intelligence from February 20, 2020 to May 26, 2020. He was the United States Ambassador to Germany from May 8, 2018 to June 1, 2020. He was the longest serving U.S. spokesman at the United Nations. 

Grenell also briefly served as national security spokesman for Mitt Romney in his 2012 campaign for President, becoming the first openly gay spokesman for a Republican presidential candidate. He resigned after pressure from social conservatives.

In September 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Grenell as U.S. Ambassador to Germany. He was confirmed 56–42 on April 26, 2018. He presented his credentials to the President of Germany on May 8, 2018.

In June 2013, Grenell revealed that he had been diagnosed with non-Hodgkins lymphoma and started chemotherapy. In September 2013, Grenell announced that he was in remission.

Grenell is openly gay.

On February 19, 2020, President Trump announced his plans to make Grenell as the acting Director of National Intelligence. This made Grenell the first openly gay politician to become a member of the United States Cabinet.

[[Kenneth I. Juster]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, American economists, Ambassadors of the United States, Businesspeople from New York City, Politicians from New York City

Kenneth I. Juster (born November 24, 1954) served as the Deputy Assistant to the President for International Economic Affairs and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council in the United States Government from January 2017-June 2017.

According to press reports, in June 2017 he was to be nominated to the post of U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of India. His nomination was confirmed by the United States Senate on November 2, 2017.

[[Majuli]]

Mājuli or Majoli  (মাজুলী, is an island in the Brahmaputra River, Assam, India. 

The island had a total area of 1250 at the beginning of the 20th century. Much land was eroded, so it had an area of only 352 in 2014. Majuli has shrunk as the river surrounding it has grown. However, it is recognised by Guinness Book of World Records as the World's Largest River Island.

[[Parencyma]]

CATEGORIES: Biology

Parenchyma forms the bulk of plant ground tissue, where they may be specialised to function in photosynthesis, storage, or transport. Parenchyma is integral to vascular tissue, where it provides a route of exchange for materials within and between the xylem and the phloem.

Parenchyma refers to both a cell type and a simple tissue and is found within all three tissue systems of vascular plants: the dermal, ground (fundamental) and vascular tissue systems.

Parenchyma functions are diverse and dependant on both location within the plant and morphological specialisation.

Parenchyma forms the bulk of plant ground tissue, where they may be specialised to function in photosynthesis, storage, or transport.

Parenchyma is integral to vascular tissue, where it provides a route of exchange for materials within and between the xylem and the phloem.

Parenchyma is composed of living cells that retain the ability to divide and hence play a key role in several developmental processes, as well in plant response to wounding.

[[Joseph Joestar]]

CATEGORIES: Manga, Anime characters

Joseph Joestar (ジョセフ・ジョースター, Josefu Jōsutā), born on 27 September 1920, is a main character from the manga and anime JoJo's Bizarre Adventure. First introduced in Battle Tendency with his friend, Caesar Zeppeli, he appears in the later parts Stardust Crusaders and Diamond is Unbreakable. After Stardust Crusaders, Joseph's grandson, Jotaro Kujo, is the JoJo with the most major appearances in the series. From his birth he can use a special power called the "Ripple" (Hamon in the original Japanese), which is based on life energy. In Jojo's Bizarre adventure people also can have special powers that are called a "Stand". Joseph has a stand which is called Hermit Purple. It is called that because it represents the 9th tarot card: The Hermit. This stand can take spirit photos, be used as a grappling hook, and conduct the Ripple like an electric current. It appears as a lot of purple vines covered in thorns. 

[[Bayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1863 establishments in Europe, Companies of Germany, Leverkusen, 1860s establishments in Germany

Bayer AG is a German pharmaceutical company. It is headquartered in Leverkusen, North Rhine-Westphalia. The company was founded in 1863 by Friedrich Bayer and are best known for their first produced drug Aspirin.

[[Walter Becker]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, 1950 births, 2017 deaths, American jazz musicians, American rock guitarists, American bass guitarists, American songwriters, Musicians from New York City, Writers from New York City

Walter Carl Becker (February 20, 1950 – September 3, 2017) was an American musician, songwriter, and record producer. He was best known as the co-founder, guitarist, bassist and co-songwriter of Steely Dan.

Becker and Donald Fagen reformed Steely Dan in 1993 and had remained active, most notably including their 2000 Two Against Nature album, which won four Grammy Awards. Becker also released two solo albums, 1994's 11 Tracks of Whack and 2008's Circus Money.

Becker died on September 3, 2017 after suffering from an unknown illness in Maui, Hawaii at the age of 67.

[[Hausgauen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hausgauen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hecken, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hecken is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Damon Keith]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Cancer deaths in Michigan, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, American judges, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan

Damon Jerome Keith (July 4, 1922 – April 28, 2019) was an American judge. He was a Senior Judge for the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. He served as Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit from 1977 until his retirement in 1995. He was nominated by President Jimmy Carter.

Keith was born in Detroit, Michigan. He studied at Wayne State University, at Howard University and at West Virginia State University. Keith married Rachel Boone in 1953. They had three daughters. Boone died in 2007.

Keith died on April 28, 2019 at his home in Detroit, at the age of 96. The cause was problems from leukemia and heart disease.

[[Joan Colom]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Photographers, People from Barcelona

Joan Colom i Altemir (April 1921 – 3 September 2017) was a Spanish photographer. He was born in Barcelona.

Colom was known for his portraits of Barcelona's underworld and working class, especially in the infamous neighbourhood of Raval. Colom was a self-taught photographer, and produced his best-known pictures while working during the week as an accountant.

In 1957 he became a member of the Agrupació Fotogràfica de Catalunya (AFC), and co-founded in 1960 the artist's group El Mussol ("The Owl").

Colom died in Barcelona on 3 September 2017 at the age of 96.

[[Hégenheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hégenheim is a commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. It is on the border to Switzerland.

[[John Ashbery]]

CATEGORIES: Pulitzer Prize winners, 1927 births, 2017 deaths, American poets, American educators, Gay men, LGBT writers, Writers from New York, People from Rochester, New York

John Lawrence Ashbery (July 28, 1927 – September 3, 2017) was an American poet. He has published more than twenty volumes of poetry and won nearly every major American award for poetry, including a Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for his collection Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.

Ashbery died on September 3, 2017 at his home in Hudson, New York of natural causes at the age of 90. He was survived by his husband David Kermani.

[[Richard Sui On Chang]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Bishops, Deaths from pneumonia, Episcopalians, People from Honolulu

Richard Sui On Chang (November 30, 1941–August 30, 2017) was bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Hawaii from 1997 to 2006. He was ordained to the diaconate on March 5, 1966, and to the priesthood on September 4, 1966. 

Chang was consecrated Bishop of Hawaii on March 30, 1997 and died in Honolulu on August 30, 2017 from pneumonia at the age of 75.

[[Horacio White]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Olympians, Swimmers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Horacio White (April 2, 1927 – August 26, 2017) was an Argentine swimmer. He was born in Buenos Aires. He competed at the 1948 Summer Olympics in the 100 m freestyle and 4×200 m freestyle relay, reaching the final in the latter and coming 6th.

White died in Buenos Aires on August 26, 2017 at the age of 90.

[[Michael J. C. Gordon]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in England, British computer scientists, People from Yorkshire

Michael John Caldwell "Mike" Gordon FRS (28 February 1948 – 22 August 2017) was a British computer scientist. He was born in Ripon, Yorkshire.

Gordon led the development of the HOL theorem prover. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1994, and in 2008 a two-day research meeting on Tools and Techniques for Verification of System Infrastructure was held there in honour of his 60th birthday.

Gordon died in Cambridge, Cambridgeshire on 22 August 2017 at the age of 69.

[[M. R. Srinivasan]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Indian scientists, Indian engineers, Bangalore

Malur Ramasamy Srinivasan (born 5 January 1930), is an Indian nuclear scientist and mechanical engineer. He played a key role in the development of India's nuclear power programme and the development of the PHWR. He received the Padma Vibhushan Award. He was born in Bangalore, India.

[[Viktor Cherepkov]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Russian politicians, Mayors

Viktor Ivanovich Cherepkov (Ви́ктор Ива́нович Черепко́в; April 16, 1942 – September 2, 2017) was a Russian politician. He was a Deputy of the State Duma of the third and fourth convocation. He was mayor of Vladivostok (1993–1994; 1996–1998). He was a Captain 1st rank in retirement.

Cherepkov died on September 2, 2017 of lung cancer in Moscow, Russia at the age of 75.

[[Dave Hlubek]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American rock guitarists, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Florida, Musicians from Florida, Writers from Florida

David Lawrence "Dave" Hlubek LOO (August 28, 1951 – September 3, 2017) was an American musician and singer. He was the lead guitarist and founding member of the Southern rock band Molly Hatchet. He was born in Jacksonville, Florida. His best known song was "Flirtin with Disaster".

Hlubek died of a heart attack on September 3, 2017, at the age of 66.

[[Catalan Company]]

CATEGORIES: Byzantine Empire, 14th century, History of Greece

The Grand Catalan Company (Companyia Catalana d'Orient), officially the Magna Societas Catalanorum, and widely known as the Catalan Company, was a free company of mercenaries founded by Roger de Flor in the early 14th century.

[[Joris Vercammen]]

CATEGORIES: 1952  births, Living people, Archbishops, Belgian priests, Belgian Roman Catholics, Old Catholics, People from Antwerp (province)

Joris August Odilius Ludovicus Vercammen (born October 14, 1952 in Lier) is a Belgian priest of an Old Catholic Church denomination.

Vercammen was a Roman Catholic priest in his native country.

He went to the Old Catholic Church of the Netherlands in 1988. He has been archbishop of this church since 2000.

Joris Vercammen is married with three children.

[[Johnny Gaudreau]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, American ice hockey players, Calgary Flames players, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Sportspeople from New Jersey, United States Hockey League players

John Michael "Johnny" Gaudreau (born August 13, 1993) is an American professional ice hockey left winger currently playing for the Calgary Flames in the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Mount Cook]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of New Zealand, Geography of New Zealand, Mountain climbing

Mount Cook also known in the local Maori language as Aoraki or Aorangi is the highest mountain in New Zealand with a height of 3,724 meters (12,218 ft.) 

[[London Bridge (Fergie song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, Debut singles, Hip hop songs, Dance songs, R&B songs

"London Bridge" is the debut single recorded by American singer and rapper Fergie for her debut studio album, The Dutchess (2006). It was written by Fergie, Mike Hartnett, Sean Garrett, and producer Polow da Don.

[[Arrondissement of Valence]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Valence is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Drôme département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital is the city of Valence.

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group D]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)

The 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification UEFA Group D was one of the nine UEFA groups for 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification. The group was made up of six teams: Austria, Georgia, Republic of Ireland, Moldova, Serbia, and Wales. Serbia won the group and qualified for the world cup, while the Republic of Ireland finished 2nd and moved on to the second round.

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group E]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)

The 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification UEFA Group E is one of the nine UEFA groups for 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification. The group is made up of six teams: Armenia, Denmark, Kazakhstan, Montenegro, Poland and Romania. Poland won the group and qualified for the world cup, while Denmark finished 2nd and moved on to the second round.

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group I]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)

The 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification UEFA Group C was one of the nine UEFA groups for 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification. The group was made up of six teams: Croatia, Finland, Iceland, Kosovo, Turkey, and Ukraine. Iceland won the group and qualified for the world cup, while Croatia finished 2nd and moved on to the second round.

[[David Consunji]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Filipino politicians, Filipino businesspeople

David M. Consunji (October 18, 1921 – September 4, 2017) was a Filipino businessman and politician. He was the chairman of a publicly listed holding firm, DMCI Holdings, Incorporated. He was a former secretary of the Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications from 1970 to 1975, during the Marcos administration.

In 2014, Forbes listed him as the 6th richest Filipino, with a net worth of US$3.9 billion.

Consuji's death was announced on September 4, 2017. His cause of death was not given.

[[Sultan Ahmed]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Indian politicians

Sultan Ahmed (6 June 1953 – 4 September 2017) was an Indian politician. He was born in Kolkata, India. He served as the Union Minister of State for Tourism in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of India. He was elected to the 15th Lok Sabha from Uluberia (Lok Sabha constituency) on a Trinamool Congress ticket. He had previously been a 2-time Congress MLA for Entally ( in1987–91 and once again in 1996–2001).

Ahmed died at a hospital in Kolkata after suffering from cardiac arrest on 4 September 2017 at the age of 64.

[[Mountaga Diallo]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Senegalese people, Ambassadors to Russia

Mountaga Diallo (1942 – 4 September 2017) was a Senegalese diplomat and former army general. He was the Ambassador of Senegal to Russia from presenting his credentials to Russian President Vladimir Putin on 17 February 2005 until his death in 2017. He previously served as the Force Commander of MONUC from 2000 to 2004. He was born in Kolda, Senegal.

Diallo died on 4 September 2017 in Dakar, Senegal of a heart attack at the age of 74 or 75.

[[Rosey Grier]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), African American actors, African American politicians, African-American singers, African-American sportspeople, African American writers, American autobiographers, American conservatives, American movie actors, American Protestants, American television actors, American television presenters, Christian ministers, Living people, Los Angeles Rams players, New York Giants players, Politicians from Georgia (U.S. state), Singers from Georgia (U.S. state), Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), US Republican Party politicians, Writers from Georgia (U.S. state)

Roosevelt "Rosey" Grier (born July 14, 1932) is an American actor, singer, Protestant minister, conservative politician and former professional American football player. 

[[United States presidential elections in New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: New Mexico

Below is a table of all United States presidential elections in New Mexico since it became a state in 1912.

New Mexico voted for the winning Presidential candidate from 1912 until 1976. This gave the state a bellwether reputation.

[[2017 German federal election]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s in Germany, 2017 in Europe, Elections in Germany, 2017 elections, German Bundestag, September 2017 events

[[Folder]]

Folder may mean:

[[Walloon people]]

CATEGORIES: Walloon people

[[Willy Borsus]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Belgian mayors, Government ministers of Belgium, Mouvement réformateur (Belgium) politicians, People from Namur (province), Walloon politicians

Willy Borsus (born 4 April 1962 in Ciney) is a Belgian politician of the Mouvement réformateur. He is the current Minister-President of Wallonia.

Borsus was both a councillor and mayor of the Somme-Leuze municipality, a councillor of the Namur Province, a member of the Parliament of Wallonia and the Parliament of the French Community, and also a government minister in the Michel Government.

He has been Minister-President of the Walloon Government since July 28, 2017, succeeding Paul Magnette.

[[Ancient slaughterhouses of Casablanca]]

CATEGORIES: Casablanca, 1912 establishments in Africa, 20th-century establishments in Morocco, 2002 disestablishments

The ancient slaughterhouses of Casablanca were constructed under the French protectorate in Morocco in 1912 in the neighbourhood of Hay Mohammadi in Casablanca.

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group F]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)

The 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification UEFA Group F was one of the nine UEFA groups for 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification. The group was made up of six teams: England, Slovakia, Scotland, Slovenia, Lithuania, and Malta. England won the group and qualified for the world cup.

[[Pampa, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Pampa is a city of Texas in the United States. 17,994 people lived there in the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Gray County.

[[Hurricane Irma]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 disasters, 2017 in North America, Hurricanes in Florida, Saint Martin, September 2017 events

Hurricane Irma was a Category 5 hurricane in 2017, the 9th named storm, 4th hurricane, 2nd major hurricane, and a 1st Category 5 hurricane of the hyperactive 2017 Atlantic hurricane season. Irma is also the 4th consecutive hurricane of the 2017 Atlantic hurricane season—after Franklin, Gert, and Harvey. The storm threatened the Leeward Islands, Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. Irma was also forecast to threaten the East Coast of the United States, but later forecast to hit Southwest Florida.

Irma was the first major hurricane to develop in the eastern Atlantic since Hurricane Julia in 2010. The storm developed on August 30, 2017 near the Cape Verde islands. On September 5, 2017, the storm became a Category 5 hurricane. It had maximum sustained winds of 180 miles per hour since Hurricane Wilma in twelve years earlier. As it hit landfall, Irma went down to a Category 2 hurricane. Irma was the easternmost Category 5 hurricane on record in the Atlantic Ocean. 

Hurricane or tropical storm watches and warnings were issued from Haiti to Dominica.

Hurricane Irma inflicted $77 billion worth of damage especially in Florida after making landfall in Florida.

Due to significant amount of damage and loss of life from the storm especially in Florida, the name Irma was retired in April 2018 by the World Meteorological Organization, and it was replaced with Idalia for the 2023 Atlantic hurricane season.

[[Ilanz]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden, Cities in Switzerland

Ilanz (Glion) is a town and former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Ilanz, Castrisch, Ladir, Luven, Pitasch, Riein, Ruschein, Schnaus, Sevgein, Duvin, Pigniu, Rueun and Siat merged into the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[Heidwiller]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Heidwiller is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Findlay, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Findlay is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is the county seat of Hancock County. It is 64 km south of Toledo. In 2010, 41,202 people lived there.

[[Hancock County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1820s establishments in Ohio, 1828 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Hancock County is a county in Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 74,782 people lived there. The county seat is Findlay.

[[Rogéria]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Brazilian models, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from urinary tract infection, Drag queens, LGBT actors, LGBT models, People from Rio de Janeiro

Rogéria (Astolfo Barroso Pinto; 25 June 1943 – 4 September 2017) was a Brazilian actress and drag queen. She was born in Cantagalo, Brazil. She was known for her performances as a drag queen on TV Rio. She was known for her movie roles in A Maldição do Sanpaku, Ambitious Women, and in Mulheres no Poder.

Rogéria died in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil from sepsis caused by urinary tract infection on 4 September 2017 at the age of 74.

[[Bus terminus]]

CATEGORIES: Bus transport

A bus terminus is a place where a bus or coach starts or ends its scheduled route. The terminus is the designated place that a timetable is timed from. Terminuses can be located at bus stations, interchanges, bus garages or bus stops. Terminuses can start and end at the same place, or may be in different locations for starting and finishing a route.

[[Victor Krasin]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Russian writers, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Economists, Human rights activists, People from Kiev

Victor Aleksandrovich Krasin (also spelled Viktor Krasin, Ви́ктор Алекса́ндрович Кра́син, 4 August 1929 – 3 September 2017) was a Russian human rights activist, economist, a former Soviet dissident and a political prisoner. At the time of his death Krasin was a US citizen. He was the founder of Initiative Group for the Defense of Human Rights in the USSR. He was born in Kiev, Ukraine.

Krasin died in Nahariya, Israel on 3 September 2017 at the age of 88.

[[Mary MacKillop]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1909 deaths, Christian saints, Australian people

Mary MacKillop (born 15 January 1842, Fitzroy, Victoria, Australia, died 18 August 1909, Sydney, Australia) was the first saint and nun in Australian history.  She was a member of the Religious Sisters of Joseph. She is properly known in the Catholic Church as Saint Mary of the Cross Mary MacKillop. 

[[Hybrid drive]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware

A hybrid drive is a data storage device that combines the features of an HDD and an SSD into one unit. It contains a large HDD and a smaller SSD cache that lets it quickly find and store computer files that are frequently accessed. A hybrid drive can offer almost the same performance as an SSD and it can contain more capacity, However a SSD will usually be faster.  

[[K. W. T. Nissanka]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 1993 deaths, Military people killed in action, Sri Lankan Civil War, Sri Lankan military people

K. W. T. Nissanka (October 21, 1971 - November 1993 in Pooneryn) was a Sri Lankan army officer.

Nissanka was a platoon commander and had the rank of second lieutenant. He served in the Sri Lankan Army from 1990 till his death in 1993. He was killed in action during the Sri Lankan Civil War.

After his death, he was given the Parama Weera Vibhushanaya, the highest award of the Sri Lankan Army.

[[Fujairah]]

CATEGORIES: Emirates of the United Arab Emirates

Fujairah is an emirate on the east coast of the United Arab Emirates. The emirate lies along the Gulf of Oman.

[[Monika Samtani]]

CATEGORIES: American journalists, People from Ann Arbor, Michigan, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Monika Samtani is an American broadcast journalist. She is best known for directing a documentary movie Suma's Story: It's Her Turn (2015).

[[Beibeilong]]

CATEGORIES: Oviraptorosauria

Beibeilong is an extinct genus of oviraptor-like dinosaur. The genus contains a single species B. sinensis, named in 2017 by Pu and colleagues based on a nest with an embryo (nicknamed "Baby Louie") and eggs. It was similar to  Gigantoraptor, and may have been of similar size as an adult. 

[[Allosauroidae]]

CATEGORIES: Theropods

Allosauroids were a clade of theropod dinosaurs. The oldest-known allosauroid, Shidaisaurus, appeared in the early Middle Jurassic (probably Bajocian stage) of China. The last known surviving members of the group died out around 93 million years ago in Asia (Shaochilong) and South America (Mapusaurus), though the megaraptorans, including the late-surviving Orkoraptor. Allosauroids had long, narrow skulls, large orbits, three-fingered hands, and usually had "horns"  on their heads. The most famous and best understood allosauroid is the Allosaurus. 

[[Roxas Boulevard]]

CATEGORIES: Streets in Metro Manila

Roxas Boulevard is one of the distinguished roads in Manila, the capital of the Philippines. It is a boulevard, or a wide road, that runs along the shores of Manila Bay. It is famous for its sunsets and stretch (or line) of coconut trees. It is now a trademark of tourism. It is also famous for its yacht club, hotels, restaurants, commercial buildings, and parks.

[[Europelta]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs

Europelta is an extinct genus of nodosaurid dinosaur known from the Early Cretaceous (early Albian stage) of northeastern Spain. It contains a single species, Europelta carbonensis. It is the most complete ankylosaur known from Europe.

[[Tom Horn]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 births, 1903 deaths, American folklore, People from Cheyenne, Wyoming

Thomas Horn, Jr.  (November 21, 1860 – November 20, 1903) was an American Old West scout, who carried out various lines of work, including hired gunman, detective, cowboy, and soldier. He is believed to have committed 17 killings throughout the West as a hired gunman. In 1902 Horn was convicted of the murder of 14-year-old Willie Nickell near Iron Mountain, Wyoming, for which crime he was hanged.

[[Kiyoshi Ogawa]]

Kiyoshi Ogawa (小川 清 Ogawa Kiyoshi, October 23, 1922 – May 11, 1945) was a Japanese naval aviator ensign (少尉) of the Imperial Japanese Navy during World War II. As a kamikaze pilot, Ensign Ogawa's final action took place on May 11, 1945, during the Battle of Okinawa.

[[USS Bunker Hill (CV-17)]]

CATEGORIES: Naval ships of the United States

USS ''Bunker Hill'' (CV/CVA/CVS-17, AVT-9) was one of 24 Essex Aircraft Carriers built during World War II for the United States Navy. The ship was named for the Battle of Bunker Hill in the American Revolutionary War and was commissioned in May 1943.

While covering the invasion of Okinawa, Bunker Hill was struck by two kamikazes in quick succession, setting the vessel on fire.  Casualties exceeded 600, including 346 confirmed dead and an additional 43 missing,

[[Sinosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Tetanurans, Dinosaurs of Asia

Sinosaurus (meaning "Chinese lizard") was a tetanuran theropod dinosaur which lived during the Early Jurassic Period. Its fossils were found in China. It was a bipedal carnivore. It was approximately 5.6 meters long.

[[Sino-Vietnamese War]]

CATEGORIES: Wars

The Sino-Vietnamese War was a war fought between China and Vietnam from February 17, 1979 to March 16, 1979. It is also known as the Third Indochina War, was a brief border war fought between the People's Republic of China and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in early 1979.  

[[John P. White]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Virginia, American military people, Politicians from New York, People from Syracuse, New York

John Patrick White (February 27, 1937 – September 3, 2017) was an American politician and military personnel. He was born in Syracuse, New York. He served as United States Deputy Secretary of Defense from June 22, 1995 through July 15, 1997. He was a First Lieutenant at the United States Marine Corps.

White died at a retirement center in Great Falls, Virginia from complications of Parkinson's disease on September 3, 2017 at the age of 80.

[[Holger Czukay]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, German rock musicians, People from Gdańsk

Holger Czukay (ˈ, Holger Schüring; 24 March 1938 – 5 September 2017) was a German musician. He was born in the Free City of Danzig (now Gdańsk, Poland). He was probably best known as a co-founder of the krautrock group Can. Czukay was also known for having created early important examples of ambient music, for having explored "world music" well before the term was coined, and for having been a pioneer of sampling.

Czukay was found dead at his apartment in Weilerswist, Germany on 5 September 2017 at the age of 79.

[[Gauri Lankesh]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths by firearm, Murder victims, Indian critics, Activists, Indian journalists

Gauri Lankesh (ಗೌರಿ ಲಂಕೇಶ್ Gauri Laṅkēś, 29 January 1962 – 5 September 2017) was an Indian journalist-turned-activist from Bangalore, Karnataka. She worked as an editor in Lankesh Patrike, a Kannada weekly started by her father P. Lankesh, and ran her own weekly called Gauri Lankesh Patrike. Lankesh was known for advocating freedom of the press. She had written about the wrongdoings of the Indian National Congress leader, D. K. Shivakumar, a close associate of the former Chief Minister of Karnataka, S. M. Krishna.

Lankesh was shot to death by unknown assailants outside her home in Rajarajeshwari Nagar on September 5, 2017 at the age of 55. At the time of her death, Gauri was known for being a critic of right-wing Hindu extremism.

[[Carlo Caffarra]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Deaths from brain cancer, Italian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic archbishops

Carlo Caffarra (1 June 1938 – 6 September 2017) was an Italian cardinal and Roman Catholic Archbishop of Bologna. He was created Cardinal in the consistory of 24 March 2006 by Pope Benedict XVI. He was born in Busseto, Italy.

Caffarra died on 6 September 2017 in Bologna, Italy of brain cancer at the age of 79.

[[Walter Brandmüller]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, German Roman Catholics, People from Bavaria, Roman Catholic bishops

Walter Brandmüller PhD (born 5 January 1929) is a cardinal of the Catholic Church and president Emeritus of the Pontifical Committee for Historical Sciences. As required by canon law for cardinals, he was appointed a bishop.

On 22 July 1990, he received the Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany from president Richard von Weizsäcker. He served as President of the International Commission for Contemporary Church History from 1998 until 2006. He is a canon of the chapter of the Saint Peter's Basilica since 1997.

Brandmüller was born in Ansbach, Germany.

Brandmüller, along with three other cardinals, has issued a request to Pope Francis, entitled "Seeking Clarity: A Plea to Untie the Knots in Amoris Laetitia", seeking clarification on various points of doctrine in the Pope's apostolic exhortation, Amoris laetitia. 

In June 2017 after seven months of not receiving a response from Pope Francis to their request that he clarify highly disputed parts in his apostolic exhortation Amoris Laetitia (The Joy of Love), four cardinals asked the Holy Father for an audience in April but the Pope has yet to respond, it has emerged. 

In an April 25 letter hand-delivered to the Holy Father on May 6, Cardinals Carlo Caffarra, Brandmüller, Raymond Burke and Joachim Meisner wrote to Francis asking for an audience, having received no response to the dubia they sent him on Sept 2016.

[[Nicolae Lupescu]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Romanian footballers, Romanian football managers, Sportspeople from Bucharest

Nicolae Lupescu (17 December 1940 – 6 September 2017) was a Romanian football defender and manager. He was born in Bucharest, Romania. Lupescu earned 21 caps and scored 2 goals for the Romanian national team. He represented his country at the 1970 FIFA World Cup.

Lupescu died on 6 September 2017 of liver cancer in Bucharest at the age of 76.

[[Mike Neville]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, British television presenters, British journalists, People from Northumberland

Mike Neville, MBE (17 October 1936 – 6 September 2017) was a British broadcaster. He was a best known as a veteran anchorman on regional TV news in North East England. In a 43 year career with the BBC and ITV franchisee Tyne Tees Television. He became an iconic figure in the region and was remembered for his solid representational style. He was born in Willington Quay, Northumberland, England.

In 1990, Neville was awarded the MBE for services to broadcasting. 

Neville died on 6 September 2017 of pancreatic cancer at the age of 80.

[[Mongoloid (race)]]

CATEGORIES: Anthropology, Race

Mongoloid was a word for a person from East Asia, Southeast Asia, the Arctic, the Americas, the Pacific Islands or Finland. The group of these persons was called Mongoloid race. In former times, many people divided human beings into three races. These races were called Mongoloid, Caucasoid, and Negroid. Today, scientists agree that there is only one human race. Modern genetic research has shown that the idea of three races was wrong.360

German anthropologists invented the name Mongolian race in the 18th century. Later, the name changed to Mongoloid. This means "looking like a Mongol". 

The word "mongoloid" was once also used to mean a person with Down syndrome. This was an offensive term used because people said it was like "Mongolian idiocy" or "Mongolian imbecility". Down syndrome has nothing to do with Mongol people: it is a genetic condition found in all types of humans.

[[Australoid (race)]]

CATEGORIES: Anthropology, Race

Australoid race was a word for the aboriginal people of Australia, Melanesia, and parts of Southeast Asia. In former times, many people divided human beings into four races. These races were called Australoid, Mongoloid, Caucasoid, and Negroid. Today, scientists agree that there is only one human race. Modern genetic research has shown that the idea of four races was wrong.360

[[Margaret River, Western Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Western Australia

Margaret River is a town in the South West of Western Australia.

[[Castizo]]

CATEGORIES: Native American, Spanish people, Ethnic groups

Castizo (ca-STEE-tzo) is a Spanish term for a person who is around 3/4 Caucasian and 1/4 Indigenous ancestry.

Castizos are mostly found in the Southern cone region of Latin America (especially Chile, Argentina and Brazil), Costa Rica, as well as parts of Northern and Western Mexico, many of the Canadian Metis (those of mixed French-Canadian and First Nations ancestry) and Mixed-Blood Americans (those who mixed of Anglo-American and Native Americans from the United States) are Castizos.

Castizos usually have more Caucasian traits, but many can have light features, but with heavy Native American features, while many can have a dark Native American-like pigmentation, but totally Caucasian features.

Famous Castizos include Johnny Depp, Gael Garcia Bernal, and Enrique Peña Nieto, it's unknown whether they are genetically Castizo, but based on their phenotype, they appear to be.

[[Harnizo]]

CATEGORIES: Native American, Spanish people, Ethnic groups

Harnizo (har-NEE-so) is a Spanish term for a person who is around 2/3 Caucasian and 1/3 Indigenous ancestry.

Harnizos are mostly found in Northern and Western Mexico, Costa Rica, Chile, Brazil as well as Mexican American population in the Southwestern United States.

Harnizos usually have more Caucasian traits, but with obvious Native American traits, Harnizos usually have a mixed pigmentation, much like Mestizos, but with more Caucasian traits, Harnizos can be confused for Mestizos sometimes.

Famous Harnizos include Jay Hernandez, Felipe Calderon, and Hugo Sanchez, it's unknown whether they are genetically Harnizo, but based on their phenotype, they appear to be.

[[Griffe]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in North America, Ethnic groups in South America

Griffe is a word that was used in slave societies in the Americas to describe some mixed-race people. It meant someone who was  3/4 black and 1/4 white.

[[Quadroon]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in North America, Ethnic groups in South America

Quadroon is a word that was used in slave societies in the Americas to describe some mixed-race people. It meant someone who had three white grandparents and one black grandparent.

[[Octoroon]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in North America, Ethnic groups in South America

Octoroon is a word that was used in slave societies in the Americas to describe some mixed-race people. It meant someone who was 7/8 white and 1/8 black.

[[Sami literature]]

CATEGORIES: Literature

Sami literature has been written at least since 1673.

Prose (in Sami language) has been written since 1910.

[[Despacito]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 songs, Songs about sexuality

"Despacito" (despa'sito; English: "Slowly") is a song by Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi featuring Puerto Rican rapper Daddy Yankee from Fonsi's upcoming studio album. On January 12, 2017, Universal Music Latin released "Despacito" and its music video, which shows both artists performing the song in La Perla neighborhood of Old San Juan, Puerto Rico and the local bar La Factoría. The song's music video is the first video to reach over three billion views on YouTube. The song was written by Luis Fonsi, Erika Ender and Daddy Yankee, and was produced by Andrés Torres and Mauricio Rengifo.

By being certified Diamond in the US only a year after its release, it reached this level faster than any other song since Elton John's double A-side single "Candle in the Wind 1997/Something About the Way You Look Tonight". This certification means the song has shipped and streamed over 10 million equivalent copies in the US.

[[Soriatitan]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropods, Dinosaurs of Europe

Soriatitan ("Soria titan") is a genus of sauropod from the Early Cretaceous of Spain. It is known from one species, S.golmayensis.

[[Kunbarrasaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ankylosauria

Kunbarrasaurus is a genus of plant eating ankylosaur dinosaur from the Cretaceous of Australia.

[[Sword of Reinheimen]]

CATEGORIES: Swords, History of Norway

The Sword of Reinheimen is a sword that was found in Norway in 2017 - in the county of Oppland. The age of the sword:  Some archeologists think it is from 800 A.D. to early 10th century.

The sword was found at an altitude of 1640 m; and the sword is thought to be in a good condition, in part because it was found in a scree, without the sword being in contact with soil.

The sword was found by a reindeer hunter (while hunting), in the county of Oppland.

A "viking sword", it has been called.

On 4 September 2017 archeologists were taken to the exact place, where the sword was found.

The find was reported by media, later that week.

[[Style of the British sovereign]]

CATEGORIES: British monarchy

The precise style of British sovereigns has varied over the years. 2010 style is officially proclaimed in two languages:

[[Heimersdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Heimersdorf is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Heimsbrunn]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Heimsbrunn is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Howard Hawks]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1977 deaths, American aviators, American movie producers, American military personnel of World War I, Movie directors from Indiana

Howard Winchester Hawks (May 30, 1896spaced ndashDecember 26, 1977) was an American movie director, producer and screenwriter of the classic Hollywood era. The classic Hollywood era was the time between 1917 and 1960 when American films first started to be created. During the classical Hollywood era, directors learned how to make films tell stories in ways that are still used today.

Hawks made many different kinds of films. He made funny films, dramas, gangster films, science fiction, film noir, and westerns. He made many popular movies. Some of them are Scarface (1932),  Bringing Up Baby (1938), Only Angels Have Wings (1939), His Girl Friday (1940), To Have and Have Not (1944), The Big Sleep (1946), Red River (1948), The Thing from Another World (1951), and Rio Bravo (1959). Hawks often included strong women who talked a lot in his films. This kind of woman was in so many of Hawks's films that people now call that type of woman a "Hawksian woman."

In 1942, other movie people in the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences nominated Hawks for the Academy Award for Best Director for his work making Sergeant York. In 1975 the Academy gave Hawks an Honorary Academy Award Hawks's work has influenced some of the most popular movie directors such as Martin Scorsese, Robert Altman, John Carpenter, and Quentin Tarantino.

[[Gin D. Wong]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American architects, Chinese people, People from Los Angeles, California

Gin Dan Wong (September 17, 1922 – September 1, 2017) was a Chinese-born American architect. 

During his career, he was the chief of the Architectural Guild for the School of Architecture and Fine Arts at University of Southern California, the founder and chairman of Gin Wong Associates, and the president of William L. Pereira Associates. He was known as the designer of numerous buildings and centers in Southern California and the Pacific Rim: LAX Theme Building; the Atlantic Richfield Company (ARCO) Headquarters Building in Downtown Los Angeles; the Columbia Broadcasting System Television City; the Crean Tower and Mary Hood Chapel on the Crystal Cathedral campus; the Jack Colker's 76 Station in Beverly Hills; Hyatt Regency International Airport in Inchon, Korea; and the Pan Pacific Tower in Honolulu, Hawaii.

Wong died of complications from Alzheimer's disease on September 1, 2017 in Los Angeles, California at the age of 94.

[[Jim McDaniels]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Seattle SuperSonics players, Los Angeles Lakers players, Sportspeople from Kentucky

James Ronald McDaniels (April 2, 1948 – September 6, 2017) was an American professional basketball player. He was born in Scottsville, Kentucky. McDaniels was drafted by the Seattle SuperSonics in the second round of the 1971 NBA draft and by the Utah Stars in the ABA Draft, but he began his professional career with the Carolina Cougars of the American Basketball Association. 

McDaniels died in Bowling Green, Kentucky on September 6, 2017 from a long-illness at the age of 69.

[[Noel Picard]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Atlanta Flames players, Montreal Canadiens players, St. Louis Blues players, Sportspeople from Montreal, Eastern Hockey League players

Joseph Jean-Noel Yves Picard (December 25, 1938 – September 6, 2017) was a Canadian ice hockey defenceman. He was the brother of former National Hockey League (NHL) player Roger Picard with whom he briefly played in St Louis, Missouri for one season. He was born in Montreal, Quebec. He played for the Montreal Canadiens, St. Louis Blues and the Atlanta Flames.

Picard died in Montreal, Quebec on September 6, 2017 at the age of 78.

[[Kim Ki-duk (director, born 1934)]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, South Korean movie directors, Korean educators, People from Seoul

Kim Ki-duk (29 September 1934 – 7 September 2017) was a South Korean movie director and professor. He was best known outside of Korea for his 1967 giant monster movie Yongary. Kim directed 66 movies in total from his directorial debut in 1961 until his retirement from the movie industry in 1977. 

Along with Kim Soo-yong and Lee Man-hee, Kim was one of the leading young directors of the Korean cinematic wave of the 1960s. The most distinctive and successful genre of this period was the melodrama (청춘영화 - cheongchun yeonghwa). He was not related to Kim Ki-duk, the South Korean director of 3-Iron.

Kim died on 7 September 2017 at the age of 83 from lung cancer in Seoul, South Korea.

[[Kim Ki-duk]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2020 deaths, South Korean movie directors, South Korean screenwriters, People from Seoul, Movie producers, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic

Kim Ki-duk (김기덕 kimɡidʌk; December 20, 1960 – December 11, 2020) was a South Korean movie director and screenwriter. His movies have received many awards in the festival awards, making him one of the most important contemporary Asian movie directors.

[[Jeremiah Goodman]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in New York City, American illustrators, Artists from New York City, People from Buffalo, New York

Jeremiah Goodman (October 22, 1922 – September 7, 2017) was an American illustrator. He was born in Buffalo, New York.

Goodman signed his work with his first name only. Goodman used his unique painting style to create the essence of a building's interior. 

His painting interprets the plans of both architects and interior designers. He paints original portraits of spaces for both commercial and private clients. For almost twenty years he created the covers for Interior Design magazine, and also books on interiors and for murals.

Goodman died on September 7, 2017 of complications from pneumonia in New York City at the age of 94.

[[Tomás Villanueva]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Spain, Spanish politicians, Vice presidents

Tomás Félix Villanueva Rodríguez (25 February 1953 – 7 September 2017) was a Spanish politician. He was born in Valladolid, Spain. He served as a politician for the region of Castile and León. He served as the region's Vice President from 2001 through 2003.

Villanueva died of a heart attack on 7 September 2017 in Valladolid, Spain at the age of 64.

[[Gene Michael]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Florida, Pittsburgh Pirates players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, New York Yankees players, Detroit Tigers players, Chicago Cubs managers, Sportspeople from Ohio

Eugene Richard "Gene" Michael (June 2, 1938 – September 7, 2017), nicknamed "Stick", was an American shortstop, coach, scout, manager and executive in Major League Baseball. He was born in Kent, Ohio.

Michael played for the Pittsburgh Pirates, Los Angeles Dodgers, New York Yankees, and Detroit Tigers from 1966 to 1975. After his playing career, Michael managed the Yankees and Chicago Cubs, and served as the Yankees' general manager. Michael built the Yankees team that became a dynasty in the late 1990s.

Michael died of a heart attack on September 7, 2017, in Oldsmar, Florida at the age of 79.

[[2017 Chiapas earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 disasters, 2017 in North America, 2017 earthquakes, Earthquakes in North America, History of Guatemala, 2010s in Mexico, September 2017 events

The 2017 Chiapas earthquake was a strong earthquake that hit Mexico and Guatemala on September 7, 2017. The quake scored a magnitude of 8.4 Mw on the magnitude (or strength) scale. At least sixty people died.

[[Christchurch earthquake (disambiguation)]]

Christchurch earthquake may refer to a number of earthquakes that affected Christchurch, New Zealand.

[[Aérospatiale SA-341 Gazelle]]

CATEGORIES: British military aircraft, French military aircraft, Helicopters, Aérospatiale

The Aérospatiale SA-341 Gazelle is a French helicopter designed and built by Aérospatiale. It was also built under licence in UK by Westland as Westland Gazelle for Royal Navy and Royal Air Force. Some were built and used by Yugoslavia as SOKO SA-341 Partizan.

It was used for anti-tank, reconnaissance and training.

Many are also used for private helicopter.

[[Training helicopter]]

CATEGORIES: Helicopters

A training helicopter is a light helicopter used specially for training. Some are civilian but most are military. 

[[Balaji Loganathan]]

CATEGORIES: Photographers, Living people, 1982 births, People from Chennai

Balaji Loganathan (born 1982) is an Indian wildlife photographer. He is also a Columnist, wildlife photography enthusiast.

[[Agathaumas]]

CATEGORIES: Ceratopsids, Dinosaurs of North America

Agathaumas ("great wonder") is a dubious genus of a large ceratopsid dinosaur that lived in Wyoming during the Late Cretaceous  (65 million years ago). The name comes from Greek, αγαν - 'much' and θαυμα - 'wonder'. It was seen as the largest land animal known at the time of its discovery and might be a synonym of Triceratops. It was related to Ceratops.

[[Bajocian]]

CATEGORIES: Jurassic

In the geologic timescale, the Bajocian is an age or stage in the Middle Jurassic. It lasted from approximately 170.3 Ma to around 168.3 Ma (million years ago). The Bajocian age succeeds the Aalenian age and precedes the Bathonian age.

[[God in Judaism]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism

Jews believe in only one god, because they believe that that one god was not only the creator of the world, but also that they can have an individual and personal relationship with him. The name of that god is God, meaning “The Name” or “My Master”. 

The religion started in Mesopotamia, later on moving to Canaan, and near the Middle East. It developed gradually around 1800 BCE. During this time, God talked to Abraham, and told him to go to Canaan with his followers. Once they arrived, they became sheep herders. But one day, famine caused them to flee to Egypt, where they eventually became slaves. After all that happened, God talked to another spiritual leader in Judaism to help Abraham and his followers get back to Canaan, which he eventually did. The religion spread widely after that. The spread is called the Jewish Diaspora. The Jews spread to other countries and took their religion with them. 

The Jews have to follow specific rules from their bible. One of them is the 10 commandments. They also have to live near their Synagogue because they don't believe in taking transportation on Shabbat.

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group A]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)

The 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification UEFA Group A was one of the nine UEFA groups for 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification. The group was made up of six teams: Netherlands, France, Sweden, Bulgaria, Belarus, and Luxembourg.

[[Innerferrera]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Graubünden, Former municipalities of Graubünden

Innerferrera (Calantgil) is a village and former municipality of the district Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. On 1 January 2008 the former municipalities of Innerferrera and Ausserferrera merged into the new municipality of Ferrera.

[[Jenaz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Jenaz (Gianatsch) is a municipality of the district of Prättigau/Davos in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Jenins]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Jenins (Gianin) is a municipality in the district of Landquart in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Ferrera, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Graubünden

Ferrera is a municipality of the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Villars-Sainte-Croix]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Villars-Sainte-Croix is a municipality in the district of Ouest lausannois in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

[[Die, Drôme]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Drôme

Die (Diá) is a small city and commune in southeastern France in the Drôme department, of which it is a sub-prefecture. It is in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region.

[[Türkân Akyol]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from lung disease, Turkish politicians, Turkish educators, Physicians, People from Istanbul

Türkân Akyol (September 12, 1928 – September 7, 2017) was a Turkish   politician, physician and  academic. She was the first Turkish female government minister, and the first female university rector in Turkey. She was born in Istanbul, Turkey. She served as Minister of State from 1992 through 1995.

Akyol died on 7 September 2017 in Ankara, Turkey of a lung infection at the age of 88.

[[Don Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, American country singers, American singer-songwriters, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from emphysema, Singers from Florida, Writers from Florida

Don Williams (May 27, 1939 – September 8, 2017) was an American country singer, songwriter, and 2010 inductee to the Country Music Hall of Fame. He began his solo career in 1971, singing popular ballads and amassing 17 number one country hits.

His straightforward yet smooth bass-baritone voice, soft tones, and imposing build earned him the nickname: "Gentle Giant" of country music.

On September 8, 2017, Williams died after a short battle with emphysema in Mobile, Alabama at the age of 78.

[[Jerry Pournelle]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, American columnists, American essayists, American journalists, American military personnel of the Korean War, American novelists, American science fiction writers, Bloggers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from stroke, People from Shreveport, Louisiana, American short story writers, Writers from Louisiana, American bloggers

Jerry Eugene Pournelle (August 7, 1933 - September 8, 2017) was an American science fiction writer, essayist, and journalist. He contributed for many years to the computer magazine Byte. Pournelle served as President of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America in 1973.

[[Les McDonald]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Sportspeople from British Columbia

Les McDonald, CM (30 April 1933 – 4 September 2017) was a Canadian athlete and administrator. He was the founding President of the International Triathlon Union (ITU) from 1989-2008, and was made an Honorary President for the organization until his death in 2017.

McDonald is largely credited with getting the sport of triathlon into the Olympic Games, with the inaugural race taking place at the Games of the XXVII Olympiad in Sydney, Australia, in 2000. He is a member of the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame (2007), the BC Sports Hall of Fame (2009), and the ITU Hall of Fame (2014). He was awarded the Olympic Order in 2010, in Vancouver, by the International Olympic Committee.

McDonald was inducted as a Member of the Order of Canada in 2013 by His Excellency the Right Honourable David Johnston, the Governor General of Canada.

[[Myopathy]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Myopathy is a disease of the muscle in which the muscle fibers do not function properly. 

This results in muscular weakness. "Myopathy" simply means muscle disease (Greek myo- "muscle" + patheia < -pathy "suffering"). This meaning implies that the primary defect is within the muscle, as opposed to the nerves ("neuropathies" or "neurogenic" disorders) or elsewhere (e.g., the brain). Muscle cramps, stiffness, and spasm can also be associated with myopathy.

Muscular disease can be classified as neuromuscular or musculoskeletal in nature. Some conditions, such as myositis, can be considered both neuromuscular and musculoskeletal.

[[Pierre Bergé]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in France, French businesspeople, French LGBT people, LGBT rights activists

Pierre Bergé  (pjɛːʁ bɛʁʒe; 14 November 1930 – 8 September 2017) was a French industrialist and patron. He was the co-founder of Yves Saint Laurent Couture House and onetime life partner and longtime business partner of the late fashion designer Yves Saint Laurent.

Bergé was recognized with the Order of Orange-Nassau, Officer of the Ordre National du Mérite, Commandeur des Arts et des Lettres, and Legion of Honor.

Bergé died of myopathy on 8 September 2017, in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence, at the age of 86.

[[United States National Health Care Act]]

CATEGORIES: Health care

The United States National Health Care Act, or the Expanded and Improved Medicare for All Act (115) is a bill introduced in the United States House of Representatives by Representative John Conyers (D-MI). The bill had 49 cosponsors in 2015. As of August 12, 2017, it had 116 cosponsors, which amounts to a majority of the Democratic caucus in the House of Representatives and is the highest level of support the bill has ever received since Conyers began annually introducing the bill in 2003.

The act would create a universal single-payer health care system in the United States, the rough equivalent of Canada's Medicare and Taiwan's Bureau of National Health Insurance, among other examples. Under a single-payer system, most medical care would be paid for by the Government of the United States, ending the need for private health insurance and premiums, and probably recasting private insurance companies as providing purely supplemental coverage, to be used when non-essential care is sought.

The bill was first introduced in 2003, when it had 25 cosponsors, and has been reintroduced in each Congress since. During the 2009 health care debates over the bill that became the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, H.R. 676 was expected to be debated and voted upon by the House in September 2009, but was never debated.

The bill was introduced again recently by Rep. Conyers in the House of Representatives. Senator Bernie Sanders has said that he intends to introduce a parallel bill in the United States Senate in the future. 

[[Energy policy]]

CATEGORIES: Energy

Energy policy means the way of conservation of energy and the means to conserve it.Energy has bought immense changes in human life.Thus energy conservation is gaining much momentum.

[[Blake Heron]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from influenza, American movie actors, American television actors, American child actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Blake Heron (January 11, 1982 – September 8, 2017) was an American actor. He starred as Marty Preston in the 1996 movie Shiloh. He was born in Sherman Oaks, California. He also appeared in Cheaters, Boston Public (2000), Family Law (1999) and The Guardian, he took on the role of Specialist Galen Bungum in We Were Soldiers (2002).  He also appeared in Dandelion (2004).

Heron was found dead at his apartment by his girlfriend in Los Angeles, California on September 8, 2017, aged 35. In the days before his death, he was recovering from his heroin addiction and suffered from the flu.

[[Toshi Ichiyanagi]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Japanese composers

Toshi Ichiyanagi is a Japanese composer of avant-garde music. 

Ichiyanagi was born in Kobe, Japan. 

One of his best known works is the 1960 composition Kaiki, which combined Japanese instruments, shō and koto, and western instruments, harmonica and saxophone. 

Another work, Distance (1961), required the performers to play from a distance of three meters from their instruments. Anima 7 (1964) stated that chosen action should be performed "as slowly as possible".

Ichiyanagi was married to Yoko Ono from 1956 to 1963.

Ichiyanagi won the the 33rd Suntory Music Award (2001). He has been honored with Japan's Order of Culture.

[[Michael Moriarty]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1941 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American jazz musicians, American pianists, Republicans (United States), Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Canadian stage actors, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, Musicians from Detroit, Michigan, Actors from British Columbia, Musicians from British Columbia, American bloggers

Michael Moriarty (born April 5, 1941) is an American-Canadian stage and screen actor and a jazz musician. He received an Emmy Award, a Tony Award and Golden Globe Award. He is known for his first acting role on American television as a Nazi SS officer in the 1978 mini-series Holocaust.

Moriarty played Executive Assistant District Attorney Benjamin Stone for the first four seasons (1990–1994) on the television show Law & Order. Moriarty is also known for his roles in movies such as Bang the Drum Slowly, Who'll Stop the Rain, Q: The Winged Serpent, The Stuff, Pale Rider, Troll, Courage Under Fire, and Shiloh.

[[Mícheál Ó Muircheartaigh]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Irish television presenters, Irish radio personalities

Mícheál Ó Muircheartaigh (mʲiːçaːl̪ˠ oː mˠɪɾʲçaɾˠt̪ˠiː; born 20 August 1930) is an Irish Gaelic games commentator for the Irish national radio and television, Raidió Teilifís. 

In a career that has lasted 60 years, he has come to be regarded as the "voice of Gaelic games." His prolific career has earned him a place in Guinness World Records.

[[Megaflora]]

CATEGORIES: Plants

Megaflora (from Greek μέγας megas "huge" and Latin Flōra goddess of flowers, from flōs "flower") is the collective name of extremely large plant species. Examples of megaflora include the sequoias of California and a number of extinct plant species from the Mesozoic.

[[Luna Shamsuddoha]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 deaths, Bangladeshi businesspeople

Luna Shamsuddoha (4 October – 17 February 2021) was a Bangladeshi Women Entrepreneur. She was the Chairman of the software firm Dohatec New Media, in Dhaka Bangladesh, which she founded in 1992. She was the first woman to head any state-owned bank in Bangladesh. She is the founder President of Bangladesh Women in Technology (BWIT). She has got ‘Bangladesh Business Award-2017’ for her exceptional contribution to the country’s economy and honored with `Annona Best 10 award' for her remarkable execution in local software industry as a women entrepreneur  She serves as board member of SME Foundation, Independent University Bangladesh (IUB), Director of state-owned Janata Bank Limited. She has joined as chairman of the state-owned Janata Bank Limited.

[[University of Dhaka]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Bangladesh, Bangladesh

The University of Dhaka (ঢাকা বিশ্ববিদ্যালয়), also known as Dhaka University or simply DU), is the oldest university in modern Bangladesh. It was created in 1921 during the British Raj. It is important to the modern history of Bangladesh. After the Partition of India, the university was important to the progressive and democratic movements in Pakistan. Its students and teachers played a central role in the rise of Bengali nationalism and the independence of Bangladesh.

Today, it is the largest public university in Bangladesh, with a student body of 33,000 and a faculty of 1,800. 

[[Heiteren]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Heiteren is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Chingleput District (Madras Presidency)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Madras Presidency

Chingleput district was a district in the Madras Presidency of British India. It covered the area of the present-day districts of Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur and parts of Chennai city. It was sub-divided into six taluks with a total area of 7,970 square kilometres (3,079 sq mi). The first capital was the town of Karunguzhi, with an interruption between 1825 and 1835, administrative headquarters were transferred to Kanchipuram. In 1859 the region of Saidapet, now a neighbourhood in the city of Chennai, was made the administrative headquarters of the district.

[[Coimbatore District (Madras Presidency)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Madras Presidency

Coimbatore district was one of the districts of the erstwhile Madras Presidency of British India. It covered the areas of the present-day districts of Coimbatore, Erode and Tirupur and the Kollegal taluk of present-day Karnataka. It covered a total area of 20,400 square kilometres (7,860 sq mi) and was sub-divided into 10 taluks. The administrative headquarters was Coimbatore city. Most of Coimbatore's inhabitants were Tamil-speaking but there were also large numbers of Malayalam, Telugu and Kannada speaking people.

[[Madura District (Madras Presidency)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Madras Presidency

Madura District was one of the districts of the Madras Presidency of British India. It covered the present-day districts of Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Sivagangai and parts of Virudhunagar District in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu.

[[Gyposaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Saurischia

Gyposaurus (meaning "vulture lizard", referring to the outdated hypothesis that prosauropods were carnivores) is a genus of prosauropod from the early Jurassic of South Africa and China. It is usually considered to represent juveniles of other prosauropods, but "G." sinensis is regarded as a possibly valid species.

[[Ibadan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nigeria

Ibadan is the capital of Oyo State, Nigeria. There are over 3 million people living in Ibadan which makes it the most populous city in Oyo state. It is the third most populous city in Nigeria, after Lagos and Kano. It is the largest city in the country by land size.

Ibadan is located in south-western Nigeria. Ibadan was the centre of administration of the old Western Region since the days of the British colonial rule, and parts of the city's ancient protective walls still stand to this day. The major inhabitants of the city are Yoruba, as well as various communities from other parts of the country.

[[Citipati]]

CATEGORIES: Feathered dinosaurs

Citipati (pronounced ˈtʃiːt̪ɪpət̪i in Hindi, meaning 'funeral pyre lord') is a genus of oviraptorid theropod dinosaur from the Late Cretaceous Period of what is now Mongolia.

The type species, Citipati osmolskae, was described in 2001. A second, as yet unnamed species may also exist. Citipati is often confused with the similar Oviraptor

[[Zapalasaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropodomorphs

Zapalasaurus is a genus of dinosaur named after the city of Zapala. The type species, Zapalasaurus bonapartei, was found in Neuquén Province, Argentina. It was a diplodocoid, a long-necked herbivore, and it lived during the Early Cretaceous. 

[[Limaysaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropods

Limaysaurus is a herbivorous rebbachisaurid sauropod dinosaur from Argentina.

[[Telmatosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Hadrosauridae, Cretaceous dinosaurs

Telmatosaurus (meaning "marsh lizard") is a genus of basal hadrosaurid dinosaur from the Late Cretaceous. It was about five meters (16 ft) long. It was found in what is now Romania.

[[Dakotaraptor]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous dinosaurs

Dakotaraptor is a genus of large carnivorous theropod dromaeosaurid dinosaur. It lived in the Late Cretaceous of North America.

[[Latenivenatrix]]

CATEGORIES: Coelurosaurs, Cretaceous dinosaurs

Latenivenatrix (meaning "hiding hunter") is a genus of troodontid. It was previously identified as Troodon. 

Latenivenatrix has an estimated skull length of 18 and a size 3. This makes it the largest troodontid known.

[[Guarinisuchus]]

Guarinisuchus is an extinct genus of crocodyliform from the Late Cretaceous and Early Paleocene periods, 66-62 million years ago of the María Farinha Formation, Brazil. It was a dominant predator in its environment, and reached a length of 3 m (10 ft). Guarinisuchus appears to be closely related to marine crocodylomorphs found in Africa, which supports the hypothesis that the group originated in Africa and migrated to South America before spreading into the waters off the North American coast.

[[Tangvayosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropods

Tangvayosaurus (meaning "Tang Vay lizard") is a genus of sauropod dinosaur from the Aptian-Albian age Lower Cretaceous Grès Supérior Formation of Savannakhet, Laos. It was a basal titanosaur, about 15 m long, and is known from the remains of two or three individuals.

[[P. J. Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: Kennedy family

Patrick Joseph "P. J." Kennedy (January 14, 1858 – May 18, 1929) was an American businessman and politician. Kennedy was a major figure in the Democratic Party in Boston. He was the father of Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. (1888-1969) and the grandfather of President John F. Kennedy (1917-1963).

The son of Irish immigrants, he was the only surviving male in the family after two outbreaks of Cholera. He started work at fourteen as a stevedore in the docks. Kennedy owned three saloons and a whisky import house, and eventually had major interests in coal and banking. He moved successfully into politics, as a sociable man able to mix comfortably with both the Irish and the Protestant elite, and he sat in the Massachusetts House of Representatives and in the Massachusetts Senate. His particular talent was for the behind-the-scenes machinations for which Boston politics became so notorious.

[[Filippo Reef]]

CATEGORIES: Phantom islands

Filippo Reef is a coral reef in the Pacific Ocean. It is located at 05, 450 east of Starbuck Island in the Line Islands. The reef was reported by the master of the Italian barque Filippo who saw it on 28 June 1886. From  an unidentified report of  breakers dated 1926, it was estimated to have a water depth of only 0.6, and appeared to be about 1.6 long northwest to southeast, and less in width.

The only sighting referenced shows a date of 1926. The topographic data supplied by the General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans (GEBCO), however, shows a sea depth of 3.3. It is therefore likely that this 1926 report is an error, and that Filippo Reef is a phantom island. Maps showing the reef rely on the report of 1926, and  are likely in error.

Nevertheless, it is marked in the 2005 edition of the National Geographic Atlas of the World.

[[FC Schaffhausen]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in Switzerland, Swiss football clubs, Schaffhausen

FC Schaffhausen is a football club which plays in Switzerland.

[[Wood fuel]]

CATEGORIES: Wood, Fuel

Wood fuel is a type of energy that is burnt down to create energy, such as heat or light.

[[Klosters-Serneus]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden, Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland

Klosters-Serneus is a ski resort and municipality of the district Davos in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

It is a popular ski location and the slopes are easily accessible via a large cable car.

[[Küblis]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Küblis is a municipality in the district of Davos in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Drôme (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The Drôme (Droma) is a river in southeastern France. It is a left tributary of the Rhône river. It gives its name to the French department of Drôme.

[[Kashif Khan]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Canadian businesspeople

Kashif Khan is a Canadian entrepreneur based in Toronto. In 2011, Kashif Khan brought a rare $10 million flawless 7.5 carat fancy blue diamond along with rare coloured diamonds in Canada.

[[Air Transat]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Canada, 1986 establishments in North America, 1980s establishments in Canada

Air Transat is a Canadian leisure airline based in Montreal, Quebec. It was founded in December 1986. In 2016 there were about 2,500 employees.

[[Selima Ahmad]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Bangladeshi politicians, Bangladeshi Muslims, Bangladeshi businesspeople

Selima Ahmed (born 7 July 1960) is a Bangladeshi politician and businesswoman. She is the Vice Chairperson of Nitol-Niloy Group and the founder and President of Bangladesh Women Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BWCCI). She serves as board member of state-owned Janata Bank Limited and former board member of Sonali Bank Limited. In 2014 she won the Oslo Business for Peace Award for her contribution in Business.  She is a Global Ambassador of The International Alliance for Women (TIAW) and also a Course Teacher of MBA class in University of Dhaka.

[[Haleh Afshar, Baroness Afshar]]

Haleh Afshar, Baroness Afshar OBE FAcSS (هاله افشار; born 21 May 1944) is a British professor and a life peer in the House of Lords. She is a prominent Muslim feminist, and characterises herself as a Socialist and a Shi'a Muslim.  Her background is in equal opportunities in Britain, and before that, land reform and development in Iran, where she grew up, and journalism in both countries.

[[Ramnad estate]]

CATEGORIES: Madras Presidency

The estate of Ramnad was a permanently settled zamindari estate that existed in the Ramnad subdivision of the Madura district and later Ramnad district of the erstwhile Madras Presidency in British India from 1801 to 1949.

The seat of administration was the town of Ramanathapuram. The Zamindari had its origins in the Kingdom of Ramnad established by Raghunatha Kilavan in the late 17th century. In 1803, the Kingdom was converted to a Zamindari by the British. The male rulers of Ramnathapuram also bore the title of Sethupathi or "protector of the bridge", the bridge here referring to the legendary Rama's Bridge while female rulers bore the title "Nachiyar".

[[Alina Janowska]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Polish movie actors, Polish television actors, Polish stage actors, Polish radio actors, Polish voice actors

Alina Janowska (16 April 1923 – 13 November 2017) was a Polish actress. She was known for her roles in  Zakazane piosenki and in Samson (by Andrzej Wajda). From 1970 to 1974, she starred in the comedy series Czterdziestolatek.

[[Justice Party (India)]]

CATEGORIES: Madras Presidency

The Justice Party, officially the South Indian Liberal Federation, was a political party in the Madras Presidency of British India. It was established in 1917 by T. M. Nair and P. Theagaraya Chetty as a result of a series of non-Brahmin conferences and meetings in the presidency. Communal division between Brahmins and non-Brahmins began in the presidency during the late-19th and early-20th century, mainly due to caste prejudices and disproportionate Brahminical representation in government jobs.

[[List of scientists from Africa]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists by continent, African scientists

This is a list of scientists from Africa.

[[List of scientists from the Middle East]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists, Middle Eastern people

[[List of scientists from Asia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists by continent, Asian scientists

This is a list of scientists from Asia.

[[List of scientists from Europe]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists by continent, European scientists

This is a list of scientists from Europe.

[[List of scientists from North America]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists by continent, North American scientists

This is a list of scientists from North America.

[[B. V. Radha]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Indian movie actors, Indian movie producers, Bangalore

Bengaluru Vijaya Radha (August 1948 – 10 September 2017) was an Indian actress and movie producer. Starting her career in the 1964 movie  Navakoti Narayana. She went on to play mostly supporting roles in over 300 movie, 250 of which were in Kannada, and the rest in Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Tulu and Hindi. She was born in Bangalore, Mysore State, India.

Radha died of a heart attack on 10 September 2017 in Bangalore at the age of 69.

[[Nancy Dupree]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, American historians, American educators

Nancy Hatch Dupree (3 October 1927 – 9 September 2017) was an American historian whose work primarily focused on the history of modern Afghanistan. She was born in India to American parents.

Dupree went to Barnard College and Columbia University to study Chinese.

Dupree was the director of the Afghanistan Center at Kabul University in Afghanistan and author of five books that she compiled while studying the history of Afghanistan from 1962 until the late 1970s.

[[Michael Friedman (composer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from AIDS, Disease-related deaths in New York City, American composers, Gay men, LGBT writers, LGBT people from Massachusetts, LGBT people from Pennsylvania, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Michael Friedman (September 24, 1975 – September 9, 2017) was an American composer and lyricist. He was a founding associate artist of The Civilians. He received a 2007 Obie award for excellence.  His musical Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson opened on Broadway in October 2010. He was born in Boston, Massachusetts, but was raised in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Friedman was openly gay.

Friedman died on September 9, 2017 in Manhattan, New York from complications of AIDS at the age of 41.

[[Frank Aarebrot]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Norwegian writers, Norwegian political scientists, People from Bergen

Frank Henrik Aarebrot (19 January 1947 – 9 September 2017) was a Norwegian political scientist. He was born in Bergen, Norway. He was professor of comparative politics at the University of Bergen and adjunct professor of democracy development at the Örebro University. He regularly lectured at Institut des Sciences Politiques and at the Humboldt University. Aarebrot has written 69 books on the democratisation of Europe, following the fall of the Berlin Wall. In Norway, Aarebrot was known as a political commentator.

Aarebrot died in Bergen from heart surgery-related problems for a heart attack he suffered on 9 September 2017 at the age of 70.

[[Solomon Efimovich Shulman]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Belarusian writers, Screenwriters, Movie directors

Solomon Efimovich Shulman (January 20, 1936 – September 6, 2017), also known as Sol Shulman and Semion Shulman, was a Belarusian author, screenwriter, movie director and adventurer. He was the writer of more than forty documentary movies, five feature movie scripts, plus a host of literary and publicist works, published in many countries worldwide. His best known book was Power and Destiny. His movies include In Broad Daylight, On the Slopes of Elbruce and In Ancient Khiv.

Shulman died on September 6, 2017 in Melbourne, Australia of heart failure, aged 81.

[[Nick Theodore]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Lieutenant Governors of South Carolina, People from Greenville, South Carolina, US Democratic Party politicians

Nick Andrew Theodore (born September 16, 1928) is an American politician. He was a State representative from 1963-66 and 1970-78, a South Carolina state senator from 1967-68 and from 1981-86, and the 85th Lieutenant Governor of South Carolina from 1987 to 1995. 

Theodore is a member of the Democratic Party.

[[W. Brantley Harvey Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2018 deaths, American lawyers, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of South Carolina

William Brantley Harvey Jr. (August 14, 1930 – December 12, 2018) was an American lawyer and politician. He was elected to the South Carolina House of Representatives as a Democrat in 1958, and served until 1975, when he was installed as Lieutenant Governor of South Carolina. He served in that position until 1983. 

Harvey later served on the  South Carolina Commission of Parks, Recreation and Tourism, as well as the South Carolina Department of Transportation.

Harvey died on December 12, 2018 in Beaufort, South Carolina at the age of 88.

[[Hugh Leatherman]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Politicians from South Carolina, US Republican Party politicians

Hugh K. Leatherman Sr. (born April 14, 1931) is a Republican member of the South Carolina Senate, serving since 1981. The 31st District, which he currently represents, is in Florence, South Carolina. As Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Leatherman also sits on the state's Budget and Control Board. 

He has served as President Pro Tempore of the South Carolina Senate for all but one day from 2014 through 2019.

[[HIV Drug Resistance Database]]

CATEGORIES: HIV/AIDS

HIV Drug Resistance Database, also named Stanford HIV RT and Protease Sequence Database is a database at Stanford University that shows 93 versions of HIV.  The latest list uses data from other laboratories in Europe, Canada and the United States including more than 15,000 pieces of data.

[[History of the sword]]

CATEGORIES: Swords, History of technology, Blades

The different types of swords have been of great importance throughout history. In addition to its use as a weapon, the sword has been the object of special considerations forming part of funerary rituals, mythology and other ancient traditions.

[[Shafiul Islam Mohiuddin]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), People from Dhaka, Bangladeshi businesspeople

Shafiul Islam Mohiuddin is a Bangladeshi Business leader. He is the President of Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FBCCI). He led the Ready-Made Garment (RMG) sector of the country over thirty years and became the President of  Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA), the largest export earning sector of the country.

[[Kunwar Singh]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 deaths, 1777 births, Indian military people, Indian revolutionaries

Kunwar Singh (13 November 1777 – 26 April 1858) belonged to a royal Ujjainiya Rajput house of Jagdispur, which is currently a part of Bhojpur district, Bihar, India. During the Indian Rebellion of 1857 he led soldiers against the troops of the British East India Company. He was the chief organizer of the fight against the British in Bihar.

[[Gadi Eizenkot]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Haifa University alumni, Israeli generals, Israeli Jews, Jewish military people, People from Tiberias, Tel Aviv University alumni

Gadi Eizenkot, Hebrew: גדי איזנקוט, (born May 19, 1960 in Tiberias) has been the Chief of General Staff (Ramatkal) of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) since February 16, 2015.

Eizenkot has the rank of lieutenant general (rav aluf).

He has been an Israeli soldier since 1978. He commanded the following units: the Northern Command, the Golani Brigade, the Judea and Samaria Division, and the Operations Directive. In between he was military secretary to prime minister Ehud Barak from 1999 to 2001.

He fought in several wars, like the 1982 Lebanon War, the 2006 Lebanon War and the Gaza War.

Eizenkot is a Maghrebic Jew (he is of Jewish-Moroccan descent). During his youth he lived in Eilat. He studied history at Tel Aviv University and political science at Haifa University. He also studied at the United States Army War College.

He is married with five children, and lives in Herzliya.

[[Chabana]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, Flowers

Chabana (茶花, literally "tea flowers"), is a general word used in the Japanese language, for the arrangement of flowers at a Japanese tea ceremony.  The flowers are not arranged in any special way, the method for arranging these flowers is known as "thrown in".  

This style of flower arranging is recognised as a particular type of Ikebana (生け花, "arranging flowers"), also known as Kādo (華道, the "way of flowers"), which has its beginnings in Buddhist flower offerings.

Chabana in particular, refers to a flower display for the room where the tea ceremony is to be held, the Chashitsu (茶室, literally "tea rooms").

[[Tatya Tope]]

CATEGORIES: 1814 births, 1859 deaths, Indian military people, Indian revolutionaries

Tatya Tope also spelled Tantia Tope (16 February 1814 — 18 April 1859), was an Indian freedom fighter. He was a General in the Indian Rebellion of 1857. His full name is Ramachandra Pandurang Tope.

Tope was a close associate of Nana Saheb. Tope and Sahib led the Indian forces in the Siege of Cawnpore. The British East India Company surrendered and were told they could have safe passage. But they were attacked by Indian forces and all but 210 women and children were killed.

He fought valiantly against the British in 1857. He was very loyal to Nana Sahib.

[[List of scientists]]

CATEGORIES: French mathematicians, German mathematicians, Lists of scientists, Lists of scientists by nationality

This is a list of noted scientists ordered by nationality.

[[Single non-transferable vote]]

The single non-transferable vote (often Abbreviated to S.N.T.V.) is an electoral system for multiple member electoral districts. It is an electoral system which can produce an proportional result but it will depend on the district's magnitude (the number of representatives in the electoral district) if there is more members in each electoral district the more proportional the result will be. In many cases the single non-transferable vote has been replaced by other voting systems. 

In certain cases S.N.T.V. is thought to be similar to Plurality-at-large voting, commonly refereed as Bloc Voting, but is different because in S.N.T.V electors are only allowed to vote for one candidate but in Plurality-at-large voting the voter have as many votes as there are seats to win. 

[[Green fluorescent protein]]

GFP ia a Green Florescent Protein, that can be found in a moon jellyfish. This is a substance that helps scientists with looking at cell molecules. There is also another substance the is called RFP that serves the same purpose but is red, and is found in coral. For GFP scientists have learned that if you take away one molecule it can change the whole color of the substance, along with if you add a molecule to the original substance it will also change the color. Scientists have made the color Cyan (ECFP), and Pink (mRaspberry). The GFP is a florescent substance that is kind of like a highlighter.

[[Helen Foster Snow]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1997 deaths, American political writers, Writers from Utah

Helen Foster Snow (September 21, 1907 – January 11, 1997) was an American journalist. She lived in China in the 1930s.

[[Aldus Manutius]]

CATEGORIES: 1515 deaths

Aldus Pius Manutius (ca. 1452 – February 6, 1515) was a person who printed books in Venice, Italy during the Italian Renaissance. He started a company to print books called the Aldine Press in 1494. He was one of the first people to use modern printing ideas. He also printed small books that were easy to carry. foreword

[[Samuel Brannan]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1889 deaths, American journalists, Journalists from California

Samuel Brannan (March 2, 1819 – May 5, 1889) was an American businessman. He was a member of the The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He started the first newspaper in San Francisco, which was called The California Star. He was the first person to tell everyone about the gold in California during the California Gold Rush. He was also the first person millionaire of the Gold Rush237

Brannan moved to Yerba Buena, a place in northern California. He talked with the people who lived there and decided that the land by the Sacramento River would be a safe place for the Mormons to live. A lot of people didn't agree with him, so the new city didn't work.80 Brannan was the first person to do a lot of things there, like building a flour mill (a place that makes bread) and teaching in English.239

Brannan started the first newspaper in San Francisco, which was called The California Star, on January 9, 1847.82 Brannan sold the newspaper to a friend, and then it was called The Daily Alta California.

In June 1847, Brannan went to Green River, Wyoming, to meet with Brigham Young, who was the head of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Young was leading a group of Mormons to the Great Basin area. Brannan wanted Young to bring the Mormons to California, but Young wanted to stay in Utah. Brannan wasn't happy about that, and went back to California.103–107 Brannan was the only church leader in California, so the Mormons paid him their tithes (a small part of their money). But there is no record of Brannan sending the money to his church leaders in Utah, so it's possible that he kept it for himself. Many members stopped paying him and moved to the Salt Lake valley, where most of the other Mormons were.165–166

[[René Laurentin]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2017 deaths, French theologians, French Roman Catholics

Father René Laurentin (October 19, 1917 – September 10, 2017) was a French theologian. He was born in Tours, France.

Laurentin was known as an expert in the field of Mariology and is the author of numerous books and scholarly articles on topics including Marian apparitions such as Lourdes and Medjugorje; visionaries and mystics including Bernadette Soubirous, Thérèse de Lisieux, Catherine Labouré, and Yvonne Aimée de Malestroit; as well as biblical exegesis, theology, and Vatican II.

[[Don Ohlmeyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, American television producers, American educators, Businesspeople from New Orleans, Louisiana

Donald Winfred "Don" Ohlmeyer Jr. (February 3, 1945 – September 10, 2017) was an American television producer and president of the NBC network's west coast division. He was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. He was a professor of television communications at Pepperdine University in Malibu, California. He served as ombudsman for ESPN.com for 18 months; that term ended in January 2011.

Ohlmeyer died in Indian Wells, California on September 10, 2017 of cancer at the age of 72.

[[Len Wein]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, American comics writers, American editors, Writers from New York City

Len Wein (ˈ; June 12, 1948 – September 10, 2017) was an American comic book writer and editor. He was born in New York City, New York.

Wein was best known for co-creating DC Comics' Swamp Thing and Marvel Comics' Wolverine, and for helping revive the Marvel superhero team the X-Men (including the co-creation of Nightcrawler, Storm, and Colossus).

Additionally, he was the editor for writer Alan Moore and illustrator Dave Gibbons' influential DC miniseries Watchmen.

Wein was added into the Will Eisner Comic Book Hall of Fame in 2008.

Wein died of a heart attack on September 10, 2017 in Los Angeles, California at the age of 69.

[[Thomas Morrow Reavley]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2020 deaths, American judges, Politicians from Houston, Texas, US Democratic Party politicians

Thomas Morrow Reavley (June 21, 1921 – December 1, 2020) was an American judge. He served as Senior United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit from July 13, 1979 until his death. He was nominated by President Jimmy Carter.

Reavley was born in Quitman, Texas. He studied at University of Texas, Austin, at Harvard University and at the University of Virginia. He was in the United States Navy from 1942 to 1946. Reavley was married to fellow Fifth Circuit judge Carolyn Dineen King from 2004 until his death.

Reavley died on December 1, 2020 in Houston, aged 99.

[[Frosinone]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Italy, Cities in Lazio

Frosinone  is a city and a comune in the Lazio region of Central Italy, the capital of the province of Frosinone. The city is about 75 southeast of Rome.

[[Robert J. Cenker]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, American astronauts, People from Pennsylvania, Living people

This mission was the final flight before the Challenger explosion, which ended the Space Shuttle program until 1988. As a result, Cenker's mission was called "The End of Innocence" for the Shuttle.

Following the end of his space mission, Cenker returned to work as an engineer, and also makes appearances for NASA.

[[Richard Petty Motorsports]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR

Richard Petty Motorsports is a NASCAR team that is owned by Richard Petty. They currently field the #43 Chevrolet Camaro for driver Darrell Wallace Jr. in the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series.

[[Joe Gibbs Racing]]

CATEGORIES: NASCAR

Joe Gibbs Racing is a professional NASCAR team owned by former Washington Redskins coach Joe Gibbs. Their current drivers are Denny Hamlin, Kyle Busch, Daniel Suarez, and Matt Kenseth.

[[AFL Grand Final]]

CATEGORIES: Australian Football League, 1898 establishments, Sport in Melbourne, 1890s establishments in Australia, September events

The AFL Grand Final is a football match (Australian Rules Football) held between the teams who won in the Preliminary Final the week before. This match normally takes place at the MCG on the last Saturday of September. The winner of this match is crowned as the best team of the season and gets the Premiership Cup.

[[Girl Guides]]

CATEGORIES: Youth organizations, Scouting

Today, about 10 million girls around the world are in an organization called Girl Guides. It started over 100 years ago. Around 1907 in England, Robert Baden-Powell started an organization called Boy Scouts. He taught boys how to camp and live outdoors. In 1909, Baden-Powell held a big event for Boy Scouts. Many girls said they wanted to join, too. Baden-Powell wanted to have boys and girls in different groups, so he started Girl Guides that year. In 1910, his younger sister Agnes became the leader. The girls learned how to camp, and they also learned how to take care of children. By 1912, there were Girl Guides in many other countries such as Australia, Denmark, and the United States. All Girl Guides learn a lot about life and things that are not taught at school. They have special rules about the way to live. They have to try and do something nice for someone else every day. When something bad happens, they must be strong. They must be ready for anything, so their slogan is "Be Prepared." In 1926, leaders of the Girl Guides from around the world met in a town in New York. At the meeting, they decided to make a special day for Girl Guides in all countries. They chose February 22 because it was the birthday of Robert Baden-Powell. It is called World Thinking Day. Now, on this day every year, Girl Guides around the world celebrate with special events and study about other countries and cultures.

[[Tanjore District (Madras Presidency)]]

CATEGORIES: Madras Presidency

Tanjore District was one of the districts in the erstwhile Madras Presidency of British India. It covered the area of the present-day districts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam and the Aranthangi taluk of Pudukkottai District in Tamil Nadu.Thanjavur was a centre of Chola cultural heritage and one of the richest and most prosperous districts in Madras Presidency.

Tanjore district was constituted in 1799 when the Thanjavur Maratha ruler Serfoji II ceded most of his kingdom to the British East India Company in return for his restitution on the throne. Tanjore district, which is situated on the Cauvery Delta, is one of the richest rice-growing regions in South India. It was scarcely affected by famines such as the Great Famine of 1876–78.

[[Maghrebi Jews]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish ethnic groups, African Jews

Maghrebi Jews / Maghrebic Jews / Maghrebim are Jews who live(d) in the Maghreb countries. Many Maghrebi Jews have a Sephardic background.

[[Mannargudi Taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Thiruvarur district

Mannargudi taluk is a taluk in Thiruvarur district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu.The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Mannargudi.

[[Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Tamil Nadu

Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi  is a Dravidian Tamil Nationalist political party in Tamil Nadu, India.Its chairman is Thol. Thirumavalavan, a lawyer from Chennai.The party's main principle is the abolition of the Hindu caste system and the institution of equality among Tamil people. The political party believes that true social equality lies in the unification of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, Other Backward Classes, and minorities such as the Christians and Muslims of Tamil Nadu.The Party is against capitalism, caste domination, and Brahminism.

[[Patrick Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: Kennedy family

'''Patrick Kennedy left Ireland in 

''' (February 16, 1823 – November 22, 1858) was an Irish farmer, businessman, and politician who moved to East Boston, Massachusetts from County Wexford, Ireland. He was born in New Ross, Ireland. He was the father of businessman/politician P. J. Kennedy (1858-1929), the grandfather of businessman/politician Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. (1888-1969), and the great-grandfather of President John F. Kennedy (1917-1963).

[[List of Romanian scientists]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists by nationality, Romanian scientists, Romania-related lists

This is a list of notable Romanian scientists. 

[[List of scientists from Oceania]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists by continent, Oceanic scientists

This is a list of scientists from Oceania.

[[Ehud Barak]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, HaAvoda politicians, Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni, Israeli former political leaders, Israeli generals, Israeli opposition leaders, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish military people, Prime Ministers of Israel, Stanford University alumni

Ehud Barak, born as Ehud Brog, Hebrew: אהוד ברק , (born in February 12, 1942 in Mishmar HaSharon) is a former Israeli general and politician. He was a member of HaAvoda (Labor Party) till 2011.

Barak was Prime Minister of Israel from 1999 to 2001.

He was also the Chief of General Staff from 1991 to 1995, minister of foreign affairs from 1995 to 1996, and minister of defense from 2007 to 2013.

He studied physics, mathematics and economics at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Stanford University.

[[RAS syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Language, Rhetoric

RAS syndrome is when someone repeats a part of an acronym after using the acronym, such as ATM machine. 

[[Heiwiller]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Heiwiller is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Cajibio, Cauca]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Colombia

Cajibio is a municipality in the Cauca Department, Colombia.

[[Xavier Atencio]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, American animators, Engineers from Colorado, Disney people

Francis Xavier Atencio, also known as X Atencio (September 4, 1919 – September 10, 2017), was an American animator and Imagineer for The Walt Disney Company. Atencio served as a photo interpreter in the U.S. Army Air Forces from 1941 to 1945 during World War II, reaching the rank of captain in the 2nd Photo Tech Squadron. Stationed in England, he was part of team that would analyze aerial surveillance for military intelligence.

Atencio retired from The Walt Disney Company in 1984 and was named a Disney Legend in 1996.

[[Siegfried Köhler]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, 20th century composers, German academics, German composers, German conductors, People from Freiburg im Breisgau

Siegfried Köhler (July 30, 1923 in Freiburg im Breisgau – September 12, 2017 in Wiesbaden) was a German conductor and composer of classical music. He worked as general music director of opera houses such as Hessisches Staatstheater Wiesbaden and the Royal Swedish Opera. He conducted premieres of works by Hans Werner Henze and Volker David Kirchner, among others, and revived rarely performed operas. He also composed music for the stage and taught at universities of music in Cologne and Saarbrücken.

[[António Francisco dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Portuguese people, Roman Catholic bishops

António Francisco dos Santos (21 February 1948 – 11 September 2017) was a Roman Catholic bishop.

He was ordain to the priesthood in 1972, dos served as auxiliary bishop of the Archbishop of Braga, Portugal, from 2004 to 2006. He then served as bishop of the Diocese of Aviero from 2006 to 2014 and as bishop of the Diocese of Porto from 2014 until his death.

dos Santos died of a heart attack in Porto, Portugal on 11 September 2017 at the age of 69.

[[Alfred Gadenne]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Alderman of Belgium, Belgian mayors, Centre démocrate humaniste politicians, Murder victims, Parti social-chrétien politicians, People from Hainaut (province), Walloon politicians

Alfred Gadenne  (31 January 1946 in Luingne – 11 September 2017 in Luingne) was a Belgian politician. He was a member of the Centre démocrate humaniste and Mayor of Mouscron in Hainaut from 2006 until his death in September 2017.

Gadenne was found dead on 11 September 2017 at the age of 71 after having his throat slashed at a graveyard close to his home in Mouscron. Local news report a suspect had handed himself in to police. The suspect is an 18 years inhabitant of Mouscron. He murdered Gadenne because his father (a fireman) had committed suicide after being fired by Gadenne.

Gadenne was an alderman of Mouscron from 1982 to 2006.

He was also a member of the Parliament of Wallonia and the Parliament of the French Community from 2009 to 2014.

[[Liri]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Italy

The Liri is one of the main rivers in central Italy that flows through the Abruzzo and Lazio regions. It flows into the Tyrrhenian Sea under the name Garigliano.

[[Dawn redwood]]

CATEGORIES: Cupressaceae

The dawn redwood (Metasequoia glyptostroboides) is a deciduous conifer that was discovered in 1941. It is native to some parts of China where people called it the "Water Fir". Although this fast-growing tree is planted around arboretums across the world, it is still endangered. It is in the family Cupressaceae.

[[Chennai Super Kings]]

CATEGORIES: Indian Premier League, 2008 establishments in India

The Chennai Super Kings (abbreviated as CSK) is a franchise cricket team standing for Chennai, Tamil Nadu (India), playing in the Indian Premier League (IPL). Founded in 2008, the team played its home matches at the M. A. Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. On 14 July 2015, the Supreme Court appointed RM Lodha committee suspended the Super Kings from the IPL for a period of two years for the alleged involvement of their owners in the 2013 Indian Premier League betting case.Prior to the suspension, the team was captained by Mahendra Singh Dhoni and coached by Stephen Fleming.It has most fans in instagram around 6.4million follwers

The Super Kings had won the title thrice  in succession (2010, 2011and 2018).In 2010, they won the Champions League Twenty20 for the first time and repeated the feat in 2014. The leading run-scorer of the team is Suresh Raina, while the leading wicket-taker is Ravichandran Ashwin.CSK has most records of appearance in playoffs (10) and finals(8) The team has one of the strongest fan base in india 

[[Chepauk Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket in India, 1916 establishments, 1910s establishments in India, Buildings and structures in India

Chepauk Stadium (M. A. Chidambaram Stadium) is a cricket stadium in Chennai, India. The stadium, most commonly known as Chepauk, was established in 1916 and it is the oldest continuously used cricket stadium in the country. Its alternative name is after M. A. Chidambaram, former President of BCCI and the stadium was formerly known as Madras Cricket Club Ground. It is the home ground of the Tamil Nadu cricket team and the Indian Premier League team Chennai Super Kings. Chepauk hosted its first Test match on 10 February 1934, the first ever Ranji Trophy match in 1936 and Indian cricket team's first ever test victory in 1952 against England. The 1986 India-Australia match held at Chepauk was only the second ever Tied Test in the history of the game. As of 19 Aug, 2017 it has hosted 32 Tests, 21 ODIs and 1 T20I.

[[Luingne]]

CATEGORIES: Hainaut (province), Settlements in Belgium

Luingne, Picard: Lœne or Lœgne, West Flemish: Lowiegn, Dutch: Lowingen, is a village in the Belgian province of Hainaut.

Luingne is a former municipality. It has been a part of the municipality of Mouscron since 1977. It borders France.

About 4,000 people are living in this village, which has an area of 554 hectares.

[[List of historians by continent]]

CATEGORIES: Historians, Lists of people

This is a list of historians. It is sorted by continent.

[[List of European historians]]

CATEGORIES: Historians, Lists of people

This is a list of European historians (by nation).

[[Pressure in liquids]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

Fluid pressure is a measurement of the force per unit area. Fluid pressure can be caused by gravity, acceleration, or forces in a closed container. Since a fluid has no definite shape, its pressure applies in all directions. Fluid pressure can also be amplified through hydraulic mechanisms and changes with the velocity of the fluid.

In a fluid column, as the depth increases, the pressure increases as well. Pressure (P) increases because as you go deeper, fluid at a lower depth has to support fluid above it as well. Therefore to define fluid pressure, we can say that it is the pressure at a point within a fluid arising due to the weight of the fluid.

Pressure in liquids is equally divided in all directions, therefore if a force is applied to one point of the liquid, it will be transmitted to all other points within the liquid.

The pressure in fluids can be calculated using the following relation:

P = ''hρg   (Pressure = Height/Depth of the liquid X Density of the liquid X Gravitational pull (9.81m/s))''.

The SI Unit (International System of Unit) of pressure is the Pascal, or Newton per meter squared (N/m^2). 

Points along the same depth will have the same pressure, while points at different depths will have different pressure. 

An object that is partly, or completely submerged in a fluid experiences a greater pressure on its bottom surface than on its top surface. This causes a resultant force upwards. This force is called upthrust, and is also known as buoyancy.

[[DWRK]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations in the Philippines, Metro Manila

DWRK (96.3 FM), branded as 96.3 Easy Rock, is a 24/7 Soft AC FM radio station. It is owned and operated by Cebu Broadcasting Company in the Philippines. The station is an affliate station of the Manila Broadcasting Company. The studio is in Star City Complex, Pasay City. Its transmitter is on the BSA Twin Towers in Mandaluyong City.

[[Subcutaneous tissue]]

CATEGORIES: Integumentary system

The Subcutaneous tissue is sometimes also called the hypodermis. It is the bottom layer of skin of an animal or plant, right below the dermis, which is below the epidermis. 

The diagram is incorrect by a typo error: The stratum germinativum is the stratum granulosum layer, the stratum basale is also called the stratum germinativum. The stratum lucidum is located below the stratum corneum. The stratum spinosum is also the stratum mucosum. Below the basal later is the papilla, then the dermis layers, below that is hypodermis also known as subcutaneous later which is the adipose (fat) location just above the vessels of lymph and veins and arteries, attaching to the muscles. However, adipose can become expansive and encapsulate around vessels of the lymphatic, veins and the arteries. 

In humans, this is where the body mostly stores fat cells, called adipocyte, and there are also white blood cells and blood vessels.

The hypodermis also connects the muscles of the body to the skin, with something called deep fascia, or connective tissue.

[[University of Western Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Canada, Ontario

The University of Western Ontario is a public research univeristy in London, Ontario, Canada. Popularly known as "Western University", it is a co-educational university, It has more than 24,000 students and 306,000 living alumni.

[[List of places burned during the Balkan wars]]

CATEGORIES: Wars of independence, History-related lists

List of places burned during the Balkan Wars (1912-1913) is a list of places totally or partly burned during the Balkan Wars (1912-1913).

[[Yasmin Altwaijri]]

CATEGORIES: Asian scientists, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, BBC 100 Women, Saudi Arabian people, Female scientists

Yasmin Ahmed Almubarak Altwaijri is a Senior Scientist and the Head of Epidemiology Research at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre (KFSH&RC) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. She looks at the number of times conditions such as  obesity and mental illness occur in Saudi society. She also wants to make changes in the political and social system of Saudi Arabia to promote better health.

[[Halimah Yacob]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Singaporean politicians, Presidents (government), Current national leaders

Halimah binti Yacob (Jawi: حاليمه بنت ياچوب; born 23 August 1954) is a Singaporean politician She is the 8th President of Singapore since September 2017.

Yacob was a member of the country's governing People's Action Party (PAP), she was the ninth Speaker of Parliament, from January 2013 to August 2017. She was a Member of Parliament (MP) representing Jurong Group Representation Constituency between 2001 and 2015, and Marsiling-Yew Tee Group Representation Constituency between 2015 and 2017. On 7 August 2017, she resigned from her positions as Speaker and MP, and from her membership in the PAP, to stand as a candidate for the 2017 Singapore presidential election.

In the 2017 presidential election, Yacob was the only candidate, thus winning the election.

President Halimah started off her statement by reminding people that COVID-19, is a huge threat, and that contamination is picking up rapidly in other parts of Asia. The number of COVID-19 cases in Singapore had been on the rise and imported cases will continue to be a concern.

[[Hansford Rowe]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Richmond, Virginia, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Road accident deaths in California

Hansford Rowe (May 12, 1924 – September 5, 2017) was an American character actor. He was born in Richmond, Virginia. He appeared in television and movie roles. His career began in 1967. 

In 1968, he had a non-speaking role as a judge in three episodes of the cult series Dark Shadows.  In 1969, he played a judge on the long-running CBS daytime drama The Guiding Light.  Rowe played in the 1983 NBC miniseries V as Arthur Dupres.

Rowe was also known for playing President Harry S. Truman in Dark Skies. His movie roles include Gordon's War (1973), Missing (1982) and Baby Boom (1987).

Rowe died was killed in a car crash in Newhall, California on September 5, 2017 at the age of 93.

[[Alex Hawkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in South Carolina, Indianapolis Colts players, Atlanta Falcons players, Sportspeople from West Virginia, Sportspeople from South Carolina

Clifton Alexander "Alex" Hawkins (July 2, 1937 – September 12, 2017) was a retired American football player. He played professionally as a running back in the National Football League (NFL) for the Baltimore Colts and Atlanta Falcons. He was known as a special teams player. He was a co-captain with the Colts. He was born in Welch, West Virginia.

Hawkins died of complications from Alzheimer's disease on September 12, 2017 in Columbia, South Carolina at the age of 80.

[[Slavko Goldstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Croatian politicians, Holocaust survivors, Croatian screenwriters, Jewish writers

Slavko Goldstein (22 August 1928 – 13 September 2017) was a Croatian Jewish writer, Holocaust survivor, publisher, and politician. He was born in Sarajevo, Kingdom of Yugoslavia. He was a member of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and served as the party's president from 1989 through 1990.

Goldstein worked as a journalist, editor and writer in many Croatian newspapers. He wrote screenplays for several Yugoslav World War II movies such as Signal Over the City (Signali nad gradom, 1960) and Operation Stadium (Akcija stadion; 1977, co-written with Dušan Vukotić). He edited more than 150 books, and as a publisher, he worked on  about 400 titles.

Goldstein died on 13 September 2017 in Zagreb, Croatia of pneumonia at the age of 89.

[[Frank Vincent]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Massachusetts, American movie actors, American television actors, American video game actors, American voice actors, Deaths from surgical complications, Musicians from Massachusetts, Writers from Massachusetts

Frank Vincent Gattuso Jr. (August 4, 1937 – September 13, 2017), known professionally as Frank Vincent, was an American actor, musician and writer. He played well-known roles in the HBO series The Sopranos and in several movies for director Martin Scorsese: Raging Bull (1980), Goodfellas (1990), and Casino (1995). He was born in North Adams, Massachusetts.

In 2001, Vincent voiced the character of Mafia boss Salvatore Leone in the controversial computer and video game Grand Theft Auto III and played the character again in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (2004) and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories (2005).

Vincent died of complications from heart surgery in Nutley, New Jersey on September 13, 2017 at the age of 80.

[[Jake Paul]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Comedians from Ohio, Musicians from Cleveland, Ohio, Singers from Cleveland, Ohio, Living people, American TikTokers, American Internet celebrities

Jake Joseph Paul (born January 17, 1997) is a YouTube personality who rose to significant fame on the now-defunct video application Vine. Paul first came into prominence for playing the role of Dirk on the Disney Channel series Bizaardvark. In 2018, Jake had a boxing match against YouTube star KSI. His boxing schema proved to be too much for Deji to handle, and Jake stopped Deji in the sixth round. Many boxing experts and pundits such as Tony Bellew, Matthew Macklin, Tim Storer, Carl Froch, and more credited Jake, as he performed excellent for a novice boxer. His boxing record currently stands at 1-0-0.

[[J. P. Donleavy]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Irish novelists, Irish playwrights, American novelists, American playwrights, Writers from New York City

James Patrick "J. P." Donleavy (23 April 1926 – 11 September 2017) was an Irish-American novelist and playwright. His first novel is The Ginger Man. Another novel, A Fairy Tale of New York, provided the title of the song "Fairytale of New York". He was born in Brooklyn, New York. 

Donleavy died on 11 September 2017 in Mullingar, County Westmeath, Ireland from a stroke at the age of 91.

[[Per Fugelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Norwegian academics, Norwegian physicians

Per Fugelli (7 December 1943 – 13 September 2017) was a Norwegian physician and professor of medicine. He was professor at the University of Bergen from 1984 to 1992, and at the University of Oslo from 1992. He was born in Stavanger, Norway. 

Among his early books are Tilbake til huslegen from 1975, Doktor på Værøy og Røst from 1977, and Helsetilstand og helsetjeneste på Værøy og Røst from 1978. He published the essay collections Med sordin og kanon and Helse og rettferdighet in 1990, 0-visjonen in 2003, and Nokpunktet in 2008. 

Fugelli was the editor or co-editor of several works, including Huslegen from 1985, Medisinsk leksikon from 1990, Medisin og helse from 1993, and Verdier og penger i helsetjenesten from 2009.

Fugelli died in Jæren, Norway on 13 September 2017 at the age of 73.

[[Randolph Quirk]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, British educators, Linguists

Charles Randolph Quirk, Baron Quirk, CBE, FBA (12 July 1920 – 20 December 2017) was a British linguist and life peer. He was the Quain Professor of English language and literature at University College London from 1968 to 1981. He used to sit as a crossbencher in the House of Lords.

Quirk was born in Michael on the Isle of Man. He studied at University College London, at Yale University, at Michigan State University and at Durham University. In 1985, he was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters by the University of Bath.

Quirk was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1976 New Year Honours and was knighted in 1985.

Quirk was a Labour supporter openly all his life. He was President of the British Academy from 1985 to 1989.

Quirk died in London on 20 December 2017 at the age of 97.

[[Suhad Bahajri]]

CATEGORIES: Saudi Arabian people

Suhad Bahajri  (سهاد باحجري) is a Saudi chemist. She is a medical scientist and educator presently working as a professor of clinical biochemistry and clinical nutrition at the faculty of medicine at King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah.  Her research centers on diet, lifestyle and chronic diseases.

[[Darley Dale]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Derbyshire

Darley Dale, or just Darley, is a town and civil parish in the Derbyshire Dales district of Derbyshire, England. About 6000 people live in the town. It is north of Matlock, on the River Derwent and the A6 road. The town forms part of the urban area of Matlock. It is a commuter town for workers in Matlock.

[[Euler's homogeneous function theorem]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Euler's theorem is one of the theorems Leonhard Euler stated: There are certain conditions where a firm will neither make a profit, nor operate at a loss. The theorem is also known as Euler's homogeneous function theorem, and is often used in economics.

[[Euler's theorem]]

Euler's theorem might refer to:

[[Abdul Karim Mustaghni]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2004 deaths, Afghan politicians

Abdul Karim Mustaghni (July 11, 1911 – January 13, 2004) was an Afghan scientist and politician.

From 1973 to 1977, Mustaghni was Defense Minister of Afghanistan. He helped Mohammed Daoud Khan to remove King Mohammed Zahir Shah from power.

[[Mil Mi-38]]

CATEGORIES: Helicopters, Soviet & Russian aircraft

The Mil Mi-38 is a civil and military helicopter. It was designed by the USSR and built in Russia. The Mil Mi-38 is both used for civil and military purposes. The Mil Mi-38 was meant to replace the Mi-8. It flew for the first time on 22 December 2003 and was certified on 30 December 2015.

[[Janet Gibson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Belizean people, Zoologists, Biologists, Environmentalists

Janet Gibson is a biologist and zoologist from Belize. 

Gibson was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 1990. The prize is for a person who organizes an environmental effort in their region. Gibson won the prize because of her efforts on conservation of the marine ecosystems along the Belizean coast. Between 1985 and 1987, she worked to establish the Hol Chan Marine Reserve. Her efforts were successful and the official sanctuary was established in 1987. It was the first marine reserve in Central America.

Because of her work, along with others, the Belize Barrier Reef was given UNESCO World Heritage status in 1996.

[[Andrea Gill]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Belizean politicians, Biologists

Andrea Gill is a politician and biologist from Belize. 

Gill was President of the Senate of Belize from 2008-2012. Between 2008 and 2009, she served as president of the Forum of Presiding Officers of National Parliaments of Central America and the Caribbean (FOPREL).

Between 1997 and 2001, Gill was part of a manatee research project.

[[Louis L. Mowbray]]

CATEGORIES: Bermudian people, Ornithologists, Naturalists, 1877 births, 1952 deaths

Louis Leon Arthur Mowbray (born 19 August 1877 on St. George's, Bermuda; died 5 June 1952) was a naturalist. He was the founding curator of the Bermuda Aquarium.

In around 1907 the Bermuda Natural History Society asked Mowbray to create Bermuda’s first aquarium and a marine research centre. He became known to American scientists and eventually moved to Boston, creating an aquarium there. In 1914, he became superintendent of the New York Aquarium. He also worked to build a new aquarium in Miami.

In 1926 Mowbray returned to Bermuda and built the Bermuda Aquarium. Dr. Charles Townsend, an American zoologist, organized several overseas trips for Mowbray to collect new fish specimens. The trips were paid for by Vincent Astor. He and Astor traveled to the Galapagos Islands in 1933. They brought back tortoises and penguins, expanding the aquarium to a zoo. Mowbray then became the first person to successfully breed both the Galapagos tortoises and penguins in captivity.

[[David B. Wingate]]

CATEGORIES: Ornithologists, Naturalists, Ecologists, Cornell University alumni, Living people, 1935 births, Bermudian people

David Balcombe Wingate OBE (born October 11, 1935, in Bermuda) is an ornithologist, naturalist and conservationist.

In 1951 he and Robert Cushman Murphy and Louis S. Mowbray found the Bermuda petrel, also called a cahow. The bird species was thought to be extinct since the 1620s. The discovery inspired him to study Zoology at Cornell University. When he returned to Bermuda 1958, he began work to save the cahow. He went on to become the Conservation Officer for the Bermuda Government Parks Department from 1966 to his retirement in 2000.

He was credited with rediscovering the black-capped petrel in Haiti in 1963.

[[Human geography]]

CATEGORIES: Human geography

Human geography is a branch of geography. It studies how people and environment have an effect on each other.  

The study of people includes their communities, cultures, economies. The environment studied is mostly about locations. Locations include where people live, when people move, where they move to, what customs they have, what recreations they have.

Human societies develop in relation to the environment they are in. The relationship between people and the environment can change over time and across different locations. Human geography studies these changes.

The field of geography can be divided into physical geography and human geography. Human geography is also closely associated with social sciences and philosophy.

[[Nucleoid]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

The nucleoid is an irregularly shaped region within the cell of a prokaryote that contains all or most of the genetic material, called genophore. 

[[Reed Smoot]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1941 deaths, American Latter Day Saints, United States senators from Utah, US Republican Party politicians

Reed Smoot (January 10, 1862 – February 9, 1941) was a republican senator from 1903–1933. He was also a leader in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) and a businessman.

As a senator he is known for the 1930 Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act.

Smoot was an important leader of the LDS Church. He was chosen to serve as an apostle in the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in 1900. Smoot's role in the LDS Church led to a controversy in the United States Senate. There were also rumors of polygamy and a secret oath against the United States A Senate committee questioned Smoot's authority in the Reed Smoot hearings. The committee suggested Smoot's removal, but the full Senate voted to keep Smoot. He lost the vote for office in 1932. Smoot returned to Utah in 1933. Smoot stopped working in politics and business and spent his time working in the church. At the time of his death, he was third in line to lead the LDS Church.

[[Mormon Folklore]]

CATEGORIES: American folklore

Mormon Folklore is a group of stories and things that express the culture of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It includes personal stories and shared stories, music, jokes, and art.

Mormon folklore has stories in it, told by word of mouth. Missionaries will tell stories as a part of initiation, or to try and tell others to do the right thing. People will tell stories about early people in the Church, people in the scriptures, and help from God. These stories are supposed to help people's belief. In the early days of the Church, songs would say both good things and bad things about leaders such as Brigham Young.

Common practices for Mormons include sharing testimonies during fast and testimony meeting. Members testify of the things they know to be true and occasionally share personal stories how they gained their testimony. In Mormon culture, marriage and family are very important. Pioneer Day is a state holiday in Utah, where members honor the early pioneer saints.

Early settlers in the Church were influenced by many cultures that came together in Utah. Handicrafts were part of this influence. They had many different projects, and the Relief Society said they were good for the mind. Lots of these can still be seen around Utah.

Mormon fundamentalists have different folklore than Latter-day saints do. Their experience in government raids makes them feel more together, and they like folk dancing.

[[Alice Reynolds]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1938 deaths, People from Utah

Alice Louise Reynolds (April 1, 1873 – December 5, 1938)  was the first woman professor at  Brigham Young University (BYU).  BYU magazine put her in a list of the 10 best BYU professors of the 20th century. She was the second woman in Utah to be a full professor.277

[[Helfrantzkirch]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Helfrantzkirch is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Forest Park, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Forest Park is a city in Ohio in the United States.

[[Thomas L. Kane]]

CATEGORIES: 1822 births, 1883 deaths, American abolitionists, Deaths from pneumonia, American Latter Day Saints

Thomas L. Kane (January 27, 1822 – December 26, 1883) was an American lawyer. He was friends with Brigham Young, a leader in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or Mormon church, or LDS Church. Kane helped Brigham Young and the Mormons travel to Utah.

[[Christie Davies]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, British educators, British sociologists, People from Cambridge

Christie Davies (1941 – 5 September 2017) was a British sociologist, professor emeritus of sociology. He was born in Cambridge, Cambridgeshire. He worked at the University of Reading, England. He was the author of many articles and books on criminology, the sociology of morality, censorship, and humour. He was also visiting professor in India, Poland, United States, and Australia. Professor Davies died in August 2017.

Davies died on 5 September 2017 from a short-illness in Reading, Berkshire at the age of 76.

[[Isabelle Daniels]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, American Olympic bronze medalists, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state)

Isabelle Frances Daniels (later Holston; July 31, 1937 – September 8, 2017) was an American sprinter. He was born in Jakin, Georgia.

Daniels competed for the United States in the 1956 Summer Olympics held in Melbourne, Australia, where she won the bronze medal in the 4×100 metres with her team mates Mae Faggs, Margaret Matthews and Wilma Rudolph, in a race where all three teams beat the existing world record. She was initially placed third in the 100 meters, but was moved to fourth after photos of the finish were examined.

[[Nasopharyngeal carcinoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Nasopharynx cancer or nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is the most common cancer which is formed in the nasopharynx, most commonly in the postero-lateral nasopharynx or pharyngeal recess or 'Fossa of Rosenmüller' accounting for 50% cases. 

NPC happens in children and adults.  NPC differs significantly from other cancers of the head and neck in its occurrence, causes, clinical behavior, and treatment. 

It is vastly more common in certain regions of East Asia and Africa than elsewhere, with viral, dietary and genetic factors implicated in its causation. It is most common in males. It is a squamous cell carcinoma or an undifferentiated type. Squamous epithelial cells are a flat type of cell found in the skin and the membranes that line some body cavities. 

Differentiation means how different the cancer cells are from normal cells. Undifferentiated cells are cells that do not have their mature features or functions.

[[Kazimierz Ryczan]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Polish Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Kazimierz Ryczan (10 February 1939 – 13 September 2017) was a Polish Roman Catholic bishop. He was ordained to the priesthood on 16 June 1963, Ryczan was named bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of  Kielce, Poland on 17 July 1993.

Ryczan died on 13 September 2017 in Kielce, Poland at the age of 78.

[[Arnold Chan]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2017 deaths, Canadian lawyers, Deaths from nasopharynx cancer, Cancer deaths in Canada, Politicians from Toronto, Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Ontario

Arnold Chan (June 10, 1967 – September 14, 2017) was a Canadian lawyer and politician. He was elected to represent the riding of Scarborough—Agincourt in the House of Commons of Canada in the 2014 by-election.  Chan was a member of the Liberal Party of Canada.

Chan died on September 14, 2017 in Scarborough, Ontario of nasopharynx cancer at the age of 50.

[[Grant Hart]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Cancer deaths in Minnesota, American singer-songwriters, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, American rock drummers, American punk musicians, Musicians from Saint Paul, Minnesota, Singers from Minnesota, Writers from Saint Paul, Minnesota

Grantzberg Vernon "Grant" Hart (March 18, 1961 – September 13, 2017) was an American musician. He was best known as the drummer and co-songwriter for the alternative rock and hardcore punk band Hüsker Dü. After the band's breakup in 1988, he formed the alternative rock trio Nova Mob, where he moved to vocals and guitar. His solo career became his main focus after the dissolution of Nova Mob in 1997.

Hart died on September 13, 2017 of liver cancer at his home in St. Paul, Minnesota at the age of 56.

[[Otto Wanz]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Austrian sportspeople, Professional wrestlers

Otto Wanz (June 13, 1943 – September 14, 2017) was an Austrian professional wrestler and boxer. He made his professional wrestling debut in 1968. 

Wanz was a one time American Wrestling Association champion and former operator of the Catch Wrestling Association. Among his most famous international opponents were Antonio Inoki, Bull Power and André the Giant. He was one of only a few to bodyslam both André the Giant and Yokozuna. 

Wanz also organized strong men competitions in Austria called "Austrian Giants". He also held several records for tearing telephone books.  Arnold Schwarzenegger has called Wanz as an influence on his fitness and bodybuilding career.

Wanz died on September 14, 2017 in Styria, Austria of heart failure at the age of 74.

[[List of Iranian musicians]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian musicians, Lists of people

This is a list of Iranian (Persian) musicians and musical groups.

[[Yokozuna (sumo)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, Sumo wrestlers, History

A ''Yokozuna''  in the sport of Sumo is the highest rank any wrestler (Rikishi) can attain.  The word means "Horizontal Rope" and it comes from one of the symbols that Yokozuna wear; a thick rope (綱 tsuna) which is worn around the waist.  It is a sign of their rank.  This rope can be very heavy, weighing around 20. It is not worn for fights, but only for the wrestler's entrance ceremony into the ring at the start of a tournament.  The rope is similar to that which is used in Shinto religion for purification and to mark off sacred areas of the temple.

Yokozuna are stars in Sumo. They are in many ways, the public face of Sumo and their behaviour is watched very closely.  

[[Clarke Carlisle]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Preston, Lancashire, Premier League players

Clarke James Carlisle (born 14 October 1979) is an English former footballer. He played as a defender between 1997 and 2013. He played for many teams including Blackpool, Queens Park Rangers, Leeds United, Watford and Burnley.

Carlisle was born in Preston. He is of Dominican ancestry. He has three children.

[[List of scientists from South America]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists by continent, South American scientists

This is a list of scientists from South America.

[[Rosen]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames, Given names

Rosen may refer to the following people:

Last names:

First name:

[[Niels Henrik Abel]]

CATEGORIES: 1802 births, 1829 deaths, Abel Prize, Deaths from tuberculosis, Lutherans, Norwegian mathematicians, People from Oslo, University of Oslo alumni

Niels Henrik Abel (5 August 1802 – 6 April 1829) was a Norwegian mathematician. He died in 1829.

He did the first complete proof demonstrating the impossibility of solving the general quintic equation in radicals.

[[La Punt-Chamues-ch]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

La Punt-Chamues-ch is a municipality of the district of Maloja in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Dompierre, Vaud]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Dompierre is a municipality in the Swiss canton of Vaud. It is found in the district of Broye-Vully.

[[Parsons Green train bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 crimes in the United Kingdom, 2017 in London, 2010s crimes in London, 2010s explosions in Europe, Explosions in 2017, Explosions in London, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2017, Islamic terrorist incidents in the United Kingdom, September 2017 events, Terrorist incidents in Europe in 2017, Terrorist incidents in London, Terrorist incidents in the United Kingdom in the 2010s

On 15 September 2017, at around 8:20 am BST (07:20 UTC), an explosion occurred on a District line train at Parsons Green tube station, in London, England. Twenty-nine people were injured and later treated in hospital. The main injuries were burn injuries. The incident is being treated by the Metropolitan Police as a terrorist attack. It was one of several attacks to occur on British soil in 2017 which are being treated as terrorism.

The bomber had placed the device in a white plastic bucket inside a shopping bag, according to images and videos posted on social media just after the attack. Wires were visible hanging out, as well as a black towel. Reports also indicate the device had a timer attached.

In a statement after the incident, Prime Minister Theresa May said: "My thoughts are with those injured at Parsons Green and the emergency services who, once again, are responding swiftly and bravely to a suspected terrorist incident."

[[Marcel Herriot]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, French Roman Catholics, People from Grand Est, Roman Catholic bishops

Marcel Paul Herriot (18 May 1934 – 14 September 2017) was a Roman Catholic bishop. He was born in Moussey, Vosges, France.

Herriot was ordained to the priesthood in 1960. He served bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Verdun, France, from 1987 to 1999. He then served as bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Soissons from 1999 to 2008.

Herriot died on 14 September 2017 in Saint-Dié-des-Vosges, Vosges, France at the age of 83.

[[Dwijen Sharma]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from kidney disease, Bangladeshi writers, Naturalists, Science writers, Bangladeshi educators, Bangla Academy Literary Award winners, Recipients of the Ekushey Padak

Dwijen Sharma (May 29, 1929 – September 15, 2017) was a Bangladeshi naturalist and science writer. He was awarded Bangla Academy Award in 1987 and Ekushey Padak in 2015 by the Government of Bangladesh for his work in language and literature.

In 1962 he left Barisal to join the faculty of Notre Dame College, Dhaka and worked until 1974. Then, he moved to Moscow to work for Progress Publishers as a translator.

Sharma died of kidney disease on September 15, 2017 in Dhaka, Bangladesh at the age of 88.

[[Peter Brook]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winners, Emmy Award winning directors, Drama Desk Award winners, 1925 births, Living people, English theatre directors, Movie directors from London

Peter Stephen Paul Brook, CH, CBE (born 21 March 1925) is an English theatre and movie director. He has been based in France since the early 1970s. He has won multiple Tony and Emmy Awards, a Laurence Olivier Award, the Praemium Imperiale, and the Prix Italia. He has been called "our greatest living theatre director".

[[Ata Kandó]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2017 deaths, Dutch artists, Dutch centenarians, Dutch Jews, Hungarian Jews, Jewish artists, Jewish centenarians, Naturalised citizens of the Netherlands, People from Budapest, Photographers, World War II people

Ata Kandó, born as Etelka Görög, (17 September 1913 – 14 September 2017) was a Hungarian-Dutch photographer of Jewish descent. She was born in Budapest, Hungary.

Beginning her photography practice in the 1930s with children's photography, Kandó later worked as a fashion photographer, photographed refugees and travelled to the Amazon to photograph landscapes and indigenous people. In the 1930s she stayed two times in Paris. During the war she lived in Hungary, but after the war she returned to Paris.She moved to the Netherlands in 1954.

In 1959, she won a silver medal in Munich for fashion photography and then in 1991, received the Pro Cultura Hungarica Medal. This was followed in 1998 with the Imre Nagy Prize and that same year, she and her husband received the Righteous Among the Nations, awarded by Israel for saving Jews during the Holocaust.

In 1999 she was awarded the Hungarian Photographers Association Lifetime Achievement Award.

Kandó died at the age of 103 in Bergen, Netherlands on 14 September 2017.

[[Bruce Glover]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Chicago, Actors who played Bond villains

Bruce Herbert Glover (born November 2, 1932) is an American character actor. He was born in Chicago, Illinois. He is of English and Swedish descent. He is best known for his role of the assassin Mr. Wint in the James Bond movie Diamonds Are Forever. He is the father of actor Crispin Glover.

[[Giuseppina Projetto]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 2018 deaths, Supercentenarians, Italian people

Giuseppina Projetto-Frau (30 May 1902 – 6 July 2018) was an Italian supercentenarian. She was the oldest living person in Italy since the death of Marie Josephine Gaudette on 13 July 2017. Projetto was the oldest living person born in Italy since the death of Emma Morano on 15 April 2017, as Gaudette was born in the United States.

Projetto was born in La Maddalena. In 1946, she married Giuseppe Frau, a widower with three children. Projetto lived in Tuscany with her daughter-in-law and grandchildren. Projetto died on 6 July 2018 at the age of 116.

[[Marie Josephine Gaudette]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 2017 deaths, American supercentenarians, Italian people, People from Manchester, New Hampshire

Marie-Josephine Clarice Gaudette (25 March 1902 – 13 July 2017) was an American-born Italian supercentenarian. She was the oldest living person in Italy from the death of Emma Morano, who was the oldest living person in the world and the oldest Italian person ever on 15 April 2017 until her own death three months later. 

Gaudette was born in Manchester, New Hampshire, United States, and was the oldest living person born in the United States from the death of Susannah Mushatt Jones on 12 May 2016 and the oldest emigrant from the U.S. ever.

A nun known as Mother Cecilia, she lived in the Italian convent from 1958 until her death and was considered "the world's oldest nun". She lived in Canada and France before settling in Italy. Gaudette died on 13 July 2017, aged 115 years, 110 days.

[[Rhys Hoskins]]

CATEGORIES: Philadelphia Phillies players, 1993 births, Living people, Baseball players from California, Sportspeople from Sacramento, California

Rhys Dean Hoskins (born March 17, 1993) is an American professional baseball first baseman and left fielder for the Philadelphia Phillies of Major League Baseball (MLB). He made his MLB debut in 2017. Before playing for the Phillies, he played college baseball for the Sacramento State Hornets.

He is the fastest player in history—in terms of games played—to hit the following number of career home runs: 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17.

[[Independence Day Award]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladeshi awards, Bangladeshi culture, 1977 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Bangladesh

The Independence Day Award is the highest state award given by the government of Bangladesh. It is also termed Independence Award, Swadhinata Padak, and Swadhinata Puroskar. The award was introduced in 1977 and since then it has been given to Bangladeshi citizens or organizations in recognition of substantial contribution to one of many fields, including the War of Liberation, the Language Movement, education, literature, journalism, public service, science and technology, medical science, social science, song, games and sports, fine arts, rural development, and other areas.

Each awardee receives a gold medal, a certificate of honour, and a sum of cash. The amount of the cash reward was originally taka 20 thousand, but later in 2004, it was increased to taka one lac (.10 million in Bangladeshi currency).

[[Laax]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden, Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland

Laax (Lags) is a municipality in the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Ladir]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Ladir is a former municipality in the district Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Ladir, Castrisch, Ilanz, Luven, Pitasch, Riein, Ruschein, Schnaus, Sevgein, Duvin, Pigniu, Rueun and Siat merged into the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[Ilanz/Glion]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Graubünden, Cities in Switzerland

Ilanz/Glion is a new municipality of the district Surselva in the Swiss canton of Graubünden.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Castrisch, Ilanz, Ladir, Luven, Pitasch, Riein, Ruschein, Schnaus, Sevgein, Duvin, Pigniu, Rueun and Siat merged into the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[Riein]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Riein is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Riein, Castrisch, Ilanz, Luven, Pitasch, Ladir, Ruschein, Schnaus, Sevgein, Duvin, Pigniu, Rueun and Siat merged into the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[Luven]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Luven is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. It is part of the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[Ruschein]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Ruschein is a former municipality in the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. It is part of the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[Schluein]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Schluein is a municipality of the district Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Amazonas Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Colombia, 1991 establishments in South America, 20th-century establishments in Colombia

Department of Amazonas  (Departamento del Amazonas, amaˈsonas) is a department in the southern Colombia. The capital is Leticia. The name comes from the Amazon River that drains much in the department and the rainforest that covers a large part of the department.

[[Antioquia Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Colombia, 1826 establishments, 1820s establishments in South America, 19th-century establishments in Colombia

The Department of Antioquia is one of the 32 departments of Colombia. It is located in the central northwestern part of Colombia with a narrow section that borders the Caribbean Sea. The capital is Medellín.

[[Sucre Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Colombia, 1966 establishments in South America, 20th-century establishments in Colombia

Sucre is a department in the Caribbean Region of Colombia. The capital is Sincelejo.

[[La Sierra, Cauca]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Colombia

La Sierra is a municipality in the Cauca Department, Colombia.

[[Almaguer, Cauca]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Colombia

Almaguer is a municipality in the Cauca Department, Colombia.

[[Basil Gogos]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American illustrators, People from Alexandria

Basil Gogos (March 12, 1929 – September 13, 2017) was an Egyptian-born American illustrator. He was born in Alexandria, Egypt. He was best known for his  portraits of movie monsters which appeared on the covers of Famous Monsters of Filmland magazine in the 1960s and 1970s. 

Gogos died in Manhattan, New York of a heart attack on September 13, 2017 at the age of 88.

[[Savognin]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden, Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland

Savognin is a former municipality of the district of Albula in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Savognin, Bivio, Cunter, Marmorera, Mulegns, Riom-Parsonz, Salouf, Sur and Tinizong-Rona merged into the new municipality of Surses.

[[Arjan Singh]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Lieutenant Governors of Delhi, Ambassadors of India, Indian military people

Marshal of the Indian Air Force Arjan Singh, DFC (15 April 1919 – 16 September 2017) was an Indian Air Force Officer. He served as Chief of the Air Staff from 1964 to 1969. He was born in Lyallpur, Punjab, British India (now Faisalabad, Pakistan).

After retiring from the IAF, he served as a diplomat, politician and advisor to the Indian government. In 2002, he became the first and only officer of the Indian Air Force to be promoted to five-star rank as Marshal of the Indian Air Force, equal to the army rank of Field Marshal.

In 1971 (after his retirement) Singh was appointed as the Indian Ambassador to Switzerland. He concurrently served as the Ambassador to the Vatican. He was also appointed as the High Commissioner to Kenya in 1974.

Singh died of a heart attack on 16 September 2017 in New Delhi, India at the age of 98.

[[Henflingen]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 disestablishments in France

Henflingen is a former commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Illtal.

[[Portage County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1808 establishments in Ohio

Portage County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 161,419 people lived there. The county seat is Ravenna.

[[Albert Speer Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, German architects, People from Berlin, Urban planners

Albert Speer (ˈʃpeːɐ̯; 29 July 1934 – 15 September 2017) was a German architect and urban planner. He was the son of  Albert Speer  (1905–81) who was Adolf Hitler's chief architect. He was born in Berlin, Germany.

In 1984 he founded the company Büro Albert Speer & Partner in Frankfurt am Main. He was responsible for the design of Expo 2000 in Hanover, design of the Shanghai International Automobile City, and the central axis in Beijing created while serving as lead designer for the 2008 Olympics.

Speer Jr. died in Frankfurt am Main, Germany on 15 September 2017 at the age of 83. 

[[Keely Smith]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American pop singers, American jazz musicians, Singers from Virginia, Musicians from Virginia, People from Norfolk, Virginia

Keely Smith (born Dorothy Jacqueline Keely, March 9, 1932 — December 16, 2017) was a Grammy Award-winning American jazz and popular music singer. She performed and recorded many times in the 1950s with then-husband Louis Prima, and throughout the 1960s as a solo-artist.

With her former husband Prima, their songs included Johnny Mercer's and Harold Arlen's "That Ol' Black Magic", which was a Top 20 hit in the US in 1958. At the 1st Annual Grammy Awards in 1959, Smith and Prima won the first Grammy for Best Performance by a Vocal Group for "That Ol' Black Magic".

Smith died of apparent heart failure in Palm Springs, California on December 16, 2017 at the age of 85.

[[Redfoo]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, American record producers, American pop singers, Living people, American songwriters

Stefan Kendal Gordy (September 3, 1975, Los Angeles, California) is better known for his scene, Redfoo's art was an American Singer, songwriter, rapper, DJ, record producer, dancer, and the son of an American record executive, the founder of Monotow Records, Berry Gordy. In 2006, he created the band LMFAO with its worldwide success in 2011 with the album Sorry Party Rocking before they were removed in 2012. In 2016, he released his album Party Rock Maison.

[[Nabeel Qureshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2017 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American Protestants, Cancer deaths in the United States, Christian writers, Converts to Christianity, Deaths from stomach cancer, Writers from California

Nabeel Qureshi (April 13, 1983 – September 16, 2017) was an American Christian apologist writer and speaker, converted from Islam to Christianity. He was born in California.

Qureshi was a speaker with Ravi Zacharias International Ministries (RZIM) and the author of three books, Seeking Allah, Finding Jesus: A Devout Muslim Encounters Christianity (Zondervan, February 2014), Answering Jihad: A Better Way Forward (Zondervan, March 2016), and No God But One—Allah or Jesus (Zondervan, August 2016).

Qureshi died of advanced stomach cancer on September 16, 2017 at the age of 34.

[[Peter Lassally]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, German Jews, German businesspeople, American Jews, American television producers, Businesspeople from New York City, Holocaust survivors, People from Hamburg

Peter Lassally (born 1933) is a German-born American executive television producer and Holocaust survivor. He was born in Hamburg, Germany. He is a former Carson Productions executive. He was the executive producer of The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson, Late Night with David Letterman,  the Late Show with David Letterman and the Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson.

[[Jaspillite]]

CATEGORIES: Sedimentary rocks, Gemstones

Jaspillite, or jaspilite, is a chemical rock formed similar to chert. It is usually iron rich. It also has the name jasper taconite. 

Jaspillite is typically a layered mixture of hematite and quartz. It is common in the banded iron formation rocks of Proterozoic and Archaean age in the Canadian shield of North America.

Jaspillite is also a sedimentary rock.in certain lead-zinc ore deposits.

It is used as a gemstone.

[[Bautista Álvarez]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Spanish politicians, Spanish writers, Spanish historians

Bautista Goyel Álvarez Domínguez (1933 – 16 September 2017) was a Spanish nationalist politician and historian. He was born in San Amaro, Spain. He served as the President of the Galician People's Union from 1964 through 1977.

Álvarez died of a heart attack on 16 September 2017 at his sister's home in Beariz, Spain at the age of 84.

[[María Cristina Arango Vega]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, First Ladies, People from Bogotá

María Cristina Arango Vega (15 October 1928 – 15 September 2017) was the widow of the 23rd President of Colombia, Misael Pastrana Borrero. She served as First Lady of Colombia from 1970 to 1974. She was also the mother of the 30th President Andrés Pastrana Arango. She was born in Bogota.

Arango Vega died in Bogota on 15 September 2017 at the age of 88.

[[Misael Pastrana Borrero]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1997 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Presidents of Colombia, Colombian lawyers

Misael Eduardo Pastrana Borrero (14 November 1923 – 21 August 1997) was the 23rd President of Colombia from 1970 to 1974.

During his four years in office, Pastrana was cautiously progressive. He sought to increase employment opportunities with a famous four-point strategy. He attempted to boost national savings as a way of moving away from dependency on foreign investment and credit, and he extended pensions rights for many people.

His son, Andrés Pastrana Arango, later became the 30th President of Colombia.

Pastrana died in Bogotá, Columbia on 21 August 1997 of a stroke at the age of 73.

[[Ted Christopher]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2017 deaths, Aviation deaths in the United States, NASCAR drivers, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Connecticut

Ted Christopher (June 5, 1958 – September 16, 2017), sometimes called "Teddy" Christopher, was an American racing driver. He was born in Plainville, Connecticut. 

[[Mitchell Flint]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, American lawyers, American military personnel of World War II, Businesspeople from Kansas City, Missouri

Mitchell Flint (June 27, 1923 – September 16, 2017) was an American lawyer and a veteran aviator. He was a U.S. Navy Fighter pilot during World War II, and later served as an American Volunteer pilot in Israel's first fighter squadron during its War of Independence. He was born in Kansas City, Missouri.

Flint died on September 16, 2017 in Los Angeles, California from complications of pneumonia at the age of 94.

[[Carl Duering]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, Living people, German movie actors, German television actors, German stage actors, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, Actors from Berlin

Carl Duering (born 29 May 1923) is a German-born British actor. He was born in Berlin, Germany. He is best known role is as Dr. Brodsky in Stanley Kubrick's 1971 movie A Clockwork Orange.

[[Steven Berkoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English playwrights, English novelists, Writers from London, Actors from London, Actors who played Bond villains

Steven Leslie Berks (born 3 August 1937), known professionally as Steven Berkoff, is an English character actor, author, playwright and theatre director. 

As an actor, he is best known for his performances in villainous roles, such as Lt. Col Podovsky in Rambo: First Blood Part II, General Orlov in the James Bond movie Octopussy, Victor Maitland in Beverly Hills Cop and Adolf Hitler in the TV mini-series War and Remembrance. He also played Det. Const. Tom in the 1971 movie A Clockwork Orange.

[[Marcelo Rezende]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Brazilian journalists, Brazilian television presenters, Brazilian writers, People from Rio de Janeiro

Marcelo Luiz Rezende Fernandes (November 12, 1951 – September 16, 2017) was a Brazilian journalist and television presenter. He was born in Rio de Janeiro.

He began his career as a sports journalist in Rio de Janeiro in the coverage of several major games in the 1970s. Rezende worked at Rede Globo for 23 years as a reporter, where he was hired to present the Linha Direta police program until December 2000. The last program he worked in was called Cidade Alerta (Alert City) and was presented on RecordTV. 

Rezende died of multiple organ failure complicated by pancreatic cancer in Rio de Janeiro on September 16, 2017 at the age of 65.

[[Cecilia Caballero Blanco]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2019 deaths, Centenarians, First Ladies, People from Bogotá

Cecilia Caballero Blanco (30 September 1913 – 13 August 2019) was the widow of the 24th President of Colombia, Alfonso López Michelsen, and served as First Lady of Colombia from 1974 to 1978.

Caballero Blanco was born on 30 September 1913 in Bogotá. She married Alfonso López Michelsen on 23 October 1938. They had three children: Alfonso, Juan Manuel, and Felipe.

Caballero Blanco turned 100 in September 2013. She died on 13 August 2019 in Bogotá at the age of 105.

[[Alfonso López Michelsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2007 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Presidents of Colombia, People from Bogotá

Alfonso López Michelsen (30 June 1913 – 11 July 2007) was the 24th President of Colombia from 1974 to 1978. López was the son of former two time president of Colombia, Alfonso López Pumarejo. He was born and raised in Bogotá.

[[President of Colombia]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Colombia

The President of the Republic of Colombia (Presidente de la República de Colombia) is the head of state and head of government of Colombia.

The office of president was established upon the ratification of the Constitution of 1819, by the Congress of Angostura, convened in December 1819, when Colombia was "la Gran Colombia". The first president, General Simón Bolívar, took office in 1819. His position, initially self-proclaimed, was ratified by Congress.

The current president of the Republic of Colombia is Iván Duque Márquez, who took office on 7 August 2018.

[[Nydia Quintero Turbay]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Colombian people, South American philanthropists, First Ladies

Nydia Quintero Turbay (born 28 August 1932) is a Colombian philanthropist and the ex-wife of the 25th President of Colombia, Julio César Turbay Ayala, and served as First Lady of Colombia from 1978 to 1982 when they were still married.

She is the President of Fundación Solidaridad por Colombia, a nonprofit organization dedicated to improving the condition of impoverished Colombian families through educational and nutritional programs for children, the disabled and the poor.

[[Gustavo Balcázar Monzón]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Colombian politicians, Colombian lawyers, Ambassadors of Colombia

Gustavo Balcázar Monzón (born 10 August 1927) is a Colombian lawyer and retired politician.

Balcázar Monzón is a member of the Colombian Liberal Party. He served as Member of both the Senate and the Chamber of Representatives of Colombia, presiding over both chambers of Congress. He also served in the administrations of President Guillermo León Valencia as the 48th Governor of Valle del Cauca, and as the 16th Minister of Agriculture, and in the administration of President Julio César Turbay Ayala as the 18th Ambassador of Colombia to the United Kingdom, and Non-Resident Ambassador to Algeria.

[[Émile Idée]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, French cyclists

Émile Idée (born 19 July 1920) is a former French professional road bicycle racer. He was born in Nouvion-le-Comte, France. 

Idée is a five-time winner of the Critérium International, a record shared with Raymond Poulidor and Jens Voigt. He finished in second place in the 1948 Paris–Roubaix.

[[Chris Wallace]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winners, 1947 births, Living people, American political commentators, American political writers, American television presenters, Journalists from Chicago

Christopher W. Wallace (born October 12, 1947) is an American television anchor and political commentator. He is the host of the Fox Broadcasting Company/Fox News Channel program Fox News Sunday. 

Wallace has won three Emmy Awards and the Dupont-Columbia Silver Baton Award. Wallace has been with Fox News since 2003. As a previous moderator of Meet the Press on NBC, Wallace is the only person to date to have served as host/moderator of more than one of the major Sunday morning political talk shows.

[[French Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American comedians, Actors from Albuquerque, New Mexico

Milton French-Stewart (born February 20, 1964), known professionally as French Stewart, is an American actor and comedian. He is best known for his role as Harry Solomon on the 1990s sitcom 3rd Rock from the Sun and for his role as Chef Rudy on the sitcom Mom.

[[Xiaolongbao]]

Xiaolongbao (小笼包) are small steamed buns, originally from the Jiangnian region in China, especially connected to Shanghai and Wuxi. Traditionally they are filled with pork, but this can be mixed with other things, like crab meat and roe (eggs).  Modern versions of these buns are often contain other meats, seafood or vegetarian fillings.   

The buns are wrapped in a dough, which sometimes gets bigger by rising (called a leavened dough), or they're wrapped in a dough which doesn't do this (called an unleavened dough).  The buns are then steamed over boiling water to cook them.  

It is possible to buy deep frozen Xiaolongbao worldwide, normally in special shops or supermarkets which sell ingredients for Chinese cooking.

[[List of Ekushey Padak winners in Arts]]

CATEGORIES: Award winners, Lists of people, Ekushey Padak

The Ekushey Padak in Arts winners are listed here.

[[Herrlisheim-près-Colmar]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Herrlisheim-près-Colmar is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of east France.

[[Huron County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1815 establishments in Ohio, Ohio counties

Huron County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 59,626 people lived there. The county seat is Norwalk.

[[Sandusky County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1820s establishments in Ohio, 1820 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Sandusky County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 60,944 people lived there. The county seat is Fremont.

[[Penny Chenery]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Sportspeople from New York, People from New Rochelle, New York

Helen Bates "Penny" Chenery Tweedy (January 27, 1922 – September 16, 2017) was an American sportswoman. She was born in New Rochelle, New York. Chenery bred and raced Secretariat, the 1973 winner of the Triple Crown. In addition to breeding Secretariat, Chenery bred Saratoga Dew, who became the first New York-bred horse to ever win an Eclipse Award when the filly was voted the 1992 American Champion Three-Year-Old Filly.

In March 2011, Randolph-Macon College in Ashland, Virginia awarded Chenery an Honorary Doctor of Laws degree. 

Chenery died on September 16, 2017 at her home in Boulder, Colorado from complications from a stroke at the age of 95.

[[John Tilley]]

CATEGORIES: 1571 births, 1621 deaths

John Tilley (1571 - 1621) was a Mayflower passenger and one of the signers of the Mayflower Compact. He died during his first winter in America.

[[Secretariat (horse)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 1989 deaths, Deaths by euthanasia, Horse racing, Thoroughbred racehorses

Secretariat (March 30, 1970 – October 4, 1989) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse who, in 1973, became the first Triple Crown winner in 25 years. He was born in Caroline County, Virginia.

His record-breaking win in the Belmont Stakes, where he left the field 31 lengths behind him, is widely known as one of the greatest races of all time. He was breaded and owned by Penny Chenery. 

During his racing career, he won five Eclipse Awards, including Horse of the Year honors at ages two and three. He was elected to the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame in 1974. 

In the List of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century, Secretariat is second only to Man o' War (racing career 1919–1920), who also was a large chestnut colt given the nickname "Big Red".

Secretariat was euthanized after suffering from laminitis, a hoof disease, at a farm in Paris, Kentucky on October 4, 1989 at the age of 19.

[[Eugenio Bersellini]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Italian footballers, Italian football managers

Eugenio Bersellini (10 June 1936 – 17 September 2017) was an Italian football player and manager. He was born in Borgo Val di Taro, Kingdom of Italy. He was known for playing with Brescia Calcio, Monza and Lecce. He managed Como, Internazionale and Torino.

Bersellini died on 17 September 2017 in Prato, Italy of pneumonia at the age of 81.

[[Bob Holland]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Cancer deaths in Australia, Australian cricketers, Sportspeople from New South Wales

Robert George Holland (19 October 1946 – 17 September 2017) was an Australian cricketer. He was, because of his surname, nicknamed "Dutchy". He was born in Camperdown, New South Wales, Australia. 

Holland, who spent the majority of his cricketing life in Newcastle, was a late bloomer, and his Test debut aged 38 made him the oldest Australian debutant in more than half a century. Holland was part of the team that won the Sheffield Shield in 1982–83, 1984–85 and 1985–86. Holland finished his first class career with a season with Wellington in New Zealand’s domestic league.

In April 2017, Hollan was diagnosed with brain cancer. He later died from the disease on 17 September 2017 in Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia at the age of 70.

[[Petr Šabach]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Novelists, People from Prague

Petr Šabach (August 23, 1951 – September 16, 2017) was a Czech novelist. He was born in Prague, Czechoslovakia. He studied at Charles University.

Šabach was known for his novels Jak potopit Austrálii (1986), Hovno hoří (1994), Zvláštní problém Františka S. (1996), Putování mořského koně (1998), Babičky (1998), Opilé banány (2001), Čtyři muži na vodě (2003), Ramon (2004), Občanský průkaz (2006), Tři vánoční povídky (2007) and Škoda lásky (2009).

Šabach died on September 16, 2017 in Prague at the age of 66.

[[Charles Dance]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, English stage actors, English movie directors, English screenwriters, Actors from Worcestershire

Walter Charles Dance, OBE (born 10 October 1946) is an English actor, screenwriter, and movie director.

Dance is known for his roles as Tywin Lannister in HBO's Game of Thrones, Guy Perron in The Jewel in the Crown (1984), Sardo Numspa in The Golden Child (1986), Jonathan Clemens in Alien 3 (1992), Benedict in Last Action Hero (1993), the Master Vampire in Dracula Untold (2014), Lord Havelock Vetinari in Terry Pratchett's Going Postal (2010), Legantir in Justin and the Knights of Valour (2013) and Alastair Denniston in The Imitation Game (2014).

Dance was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) on 17 June 2006. He lives in Kentish Town in north London.

[[Joan Ganz Cooney]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American television producers, Businesspeople from Phoenix, Arizona

Joan Ganz Cooney (born Joan Ganz; November 30, 1929) is an American television producer. She is one of the founders of Sesame Workshop (originally Children's Television Workshop or CTW), the organization famous for the creation of the children's television show Sesame Street, which was also co-created by her.

[[Aleksandar Vučić]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Presidents of Serbia, Prime Ministers of Serbia, Current national leaders

Aleksandar Vučić (aleksǎːndar ʋǔt͡ʃit͡ɕ, born 5 March 1970) is a Serbian politician. He has been the President of Serbia since 31 May 2017. He is also the chairman of the Serbian Progressive Party (SNS). 

Before he became president, Vučić served as Prime Minister of Serbia from 2014 until 2017.  Vučić served as Minister of Information from 1998 to 2000 and later as Minister of Defence from 2012 to 2013, as well as First Deputy Prime Minister from 2012 to 2014. 

In April 2017, Vučić was elected President of Serbia with 55% of the vote in the first round, thus avoiding a second round. He became president from 31 May 2017, taking over from Tomislav Nikolić. His was sworn in on 23 June 2017.

[[Solicitor General of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: United States Solicitors General

The United States Solicitor General is the fourth-highest-ranking official in the U.S. Department of Justice. 

The United States Solicitor General is the person appointed to represent the federal government of the United States before the Supreme Court of the United States. The current Solicitor General, Noel Francisco, took office on September 19, 2017.

The Solicitor General determines the legal position that the United States will take in the Supreme Court. In addition to supervising and conducting cases in which the government is a party, the office of the Solicitor General also files amicus curiae briefs in cases in which the federal government has a significant interest in the legal issue. 

The office of the Solicitor General argues on behalf of the government in virtually every case in which the United States is a party, and also argues in most of the cases in which the government has filed an amicus brief.

[[Noel Francisco]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American lawyers, United States Solicitors General, Politicians from New York, People from Syracuse, New York, US Republican Party politicians

Noel John Francisco (born August 21, 1969) is an American attorney and the 47th Solicitor General of the United States from September 19, 2017 to July 3, 2020. He served as Principal Deputy Solicitor General of the United States. 

Francisco was nominated to be Solicitor General of the United States in the Donald Trump administration in March 2017. He was confirmed by the U.S. Senate by a vote of 50-47 on September 19, 2017. He took office the same day.

[[Charles Fried]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American judges, American lawyers, Columbia University alumni, Czech Jews, Czechoslovak people, Jewish American academics, Jewish American writers, Jewish judges, Jewish lawyers, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Princeton University alumni, Refugees from Nazism, Republicans (United States), United States Solicitors General, Writers from Massachusetts, Writers from Prague

Charles Fried (born April 15, 1935) is a Czech-born American jurist and lawyer of Jewish descent.    He served as United States Solicitor General under President Ronald Reagan from 1985 to 1989.  He is a professor at Harvard Law School and has been a visiting professor at Columbia Law School.

Fried is the author of nine books and over 30 journal articles, and his work has appeared in over a dozen collections.

[[Protected area]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Protected areas, Conservation

Protected areas or conservation areas are locations with special protection. They are protected because of their recognized natural, ecological or cultural importance. Areas are usually protected by law. The law can be local, from the country of the protected area, or even internationally.

Protected areas are important for biodiversity. They often provide an area safe from hunting or changes to the environment. This provides a safe habitat for threatened and endangered species. They are also important to protect naturally formed areas, like the Grand Canyon, from damage by humans.

There are many types of protected areas. One type is a marine protected area. A marine protected area is for seas, oceans, estuaries or large lakes.

Northeast Greenland National Park is an example of a protected area. The park protects a large variety of animals, such as musk oxen, walrus, and King Eider. Another example of a protected area is the Valley of the Kings in Egypt. This area is protected because it is an important archaeological site.

[[Bonnie Angelo]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Disease-related deaths in Maryland, American journalists, American historians, Writers from North Carolina, People from Winston-Salem, North Carolina

Veronica Estelle "Bonnie" Angelo (January 29, 1924 – September 17, 2017) was an American journalist and author. She was born in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. She was known for being the author of First Mothers. During her more than twenty-five years with Time, yet served as a Washington correspondent from 1967–1978, she has reported on the White House and has covered newsmakers and events across America and the world. 

Angelo died at a nursing home in Bethesda, Maryland of complications from dementia on September 17, 2017 at the age of 93.

[[Nutley, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey

Nutley is a township in Essex County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, the township's population was 28,370.

What is now Nutley was originally incorporated as Franklin Township by an act of the New Jersey Legislature on February 18, 1874, from portions of Belleville Township. Nutley was incorporated as a Town on March 5, 1902, replacing Franklin Township.

New Jersey Monthly magazine ranked Nutley as its 38th best place to live in its 2008 rankings of the "Best Places To Live" in New Jersey.

[[Katt Williams]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, American comedians, Actors from Ohio, Living people, 1971 births

Micah Sierra "Katt" Williams (born September 2, 1971) is an American stand-up comedian, rapper, singer and actor. He acted as Money Mike in Friday After Next (2002). He also played Bobby Shaw in My Wife and Kids. In 2007, he played Lord Have Mercy in Norbit.

Williams was born in Cincinnati, Ohio.

[[Antonio Ibáñez de Alba]]

CATEGORIES: Scientists

Antonio Ibáñez de Alba (born  Chiclana de la Frontera, 1956) is a Spanish engineer, researcher and scientist.

He is known mainly for his project of Artificial Palm Trees in Libya for the creation of microclimates in the deser at the Great Man-Made River. The Libyan government invested in this project nearly one billion dollars for the installation of 50,000 palm trees..

During the summer of 2017 his patent of floating water whitout salt was reflected by worldwide media.

His investigations are quoted in  scientific publications as well as in the media.

[[Hurricane Jose (2017)]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in weather, Hurricanes in the United States, September 2017 events

Hurricane Jose was a 2017 Atlantic tropical cyclone. The storm threatened the Mid-Atlantic States of Maryland, Delaware, New York and New Jersey, and the New England states of Connecticut, Rhode Island and southeast Massachusetts.

Jose had earlier threatened the Leeward Islands, the same areas hit by Hurricane Irma.

Jose's winds went as high as 155 miles per hour before threatening the Leeward Islands.

Tropical cyclone notices were issued from the Maryland/Delaware border to eastern Massachusetts on September 17, 2017.

[[Sevendust]]

CATEGORIES: American musical groups

Sevendust is an American heavy metal band formed in 1994.

[[Marine reserve]]

CATEGORIES: Protected areas, Ecology

A marine reserve is a type of marine protected area. The protection is for seas, oceans, estuaries or large lakes. Laws protect the plants and animals in a reserve. The area is kept safe for conservation and to provide special opportunities for study or research.

In a marine reserve people are not allowed to take plants or animals, except for research. This includes fishing. People are still allowed to swim or scuba dive.

The Ningaloo Reef in Australia is an example of a marine reserve. This reef includes six of the seven types of sea turtles in the world. Another example is Hol Chan Marine Reserve in Belize. Hol Chan includes coral reefs and a mangrove forest.

[[Stanislav Petrov]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Russian military people

Stanislav Yevgrafovich Petrov (Станисла́в Евгра́фович Петро́в; 9 September 1939 – 19 May 2017) was a lieutenant colonel of the Soviet Air Defence Forces. 

On September 26, 1983, just three weeks after the Soviet military had shot down Korean Air Lines Flight 007, Petrov was the duty officer at the command center for the Oko nuclear early-warning system when the system reported that a missile had been launched from the United States, followed by up to five more. Petrov judged the reports to be a false alarm, and his decision is credited with having prevented an erroneous retaliatory nuclear attack on the United States and its NATO allies that could have resulted in large-scale nuclear war. 

Investigation later confirmed that the Soviet satellite warning system had indeed malfunctioned.

[[Central Link]]

CATEGORIES: Seattle, Washington, 2009 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Washington (state)

Central Link is a train line in Seattle, Washington. It runs 20 miles from the city's airport to Downtown Seattle and the University of Washington. The train started running in 2009.

[[Mike Hicks]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Communists, Politicians from London

Mike Hicks (August 1937 – 7 September 2017) was a British former politician, former executive member of printers’ union SOGAT, and former General Secretary of the Communist Party of Britain from 1988 through 1998. He was also a members of the Labour Party. He was born in Wapping, London, England.

Hicks died on 7 September 2017 in Bournemouth, Dorset, England of a heart attack at the age of 80.

[[José Florencio Guzmán]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Chilean politicians, People from Santiago

José Florencio Guzmán Correa (22 June 1929 – 16 September 2017) was a Chilean politician. He was born in Santiago de Chile. He was Minister of Defense from 1 August 1998 until 22 June 1999.

Guzmán died on 16 September 2017 in Santiago at the age of 88.

[[The Secret Life of Pets]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 animated movies, 2016 comedy movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies

The Secret Life of Pets is a 2016 American movie distributed by Universal Studios and Illumination Entertainment. The movie is all about pets. Louis C.K. plays Max. Eric Stonestreet plays Duke. Kevin Hart plays Snowball. Jenny Slate plays Gidget. Ellie Kemper plays Katie.

[[Nicolaas Jouwe]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, Papua New Guinean politicians

Nicolaas Jouwe (24 November 1923 – 16 September 2017) was a Papuan leader. He was elected Vice President of the New Guinea Council that governed the Dutch colony of Netherlands New Guinea. 

As the president of the New Guinea Council, Jouwe was the highest ranking Papuan politician in the colony. After the colony was ceded to the United Nations Temporary Executive Authority in October 1962 and later to Indonesia six months later, Jouwe left New Guinea for the Netherlands, where he settled in the town of Delft. He vowed never to return to his native land if it were still occupied by Indonesia, but nevertheless resettled to West Papua in 2010 to die there.

Jouwe died in West Papua on 16 September 2017 at age 93.

[[Mary Fairfax]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Australia, Polish philanthropists, Australian philanthropists, People from Warsaw, People from New South Wales

Mary Fairfax (formerly Symonds, born Marie Wein; 15 August 1922 – 17 September 2017) was a Polish-born Australian philanthropist.

As the third wife of Sir Warwick Fairfax she became known as Lady Fairfax upon his knighthood in 1967. She inherited most of his vast fortune upon his death in 1987, becoming one of Australia's richest women.

Fairfax's personal wealth in 2012 was estimated by the BRW at A$418 million.

[[Lucy Ozarin]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in Maryland, American psychiatrists, American centenarians, American military personnel of World War II, Writers from New York City

Lucy Ozarin (8 August 1914 – 17 September 2017) was an American psychiatrist. She was born in Brooklyn, New York. She served in the United States Navy. She was one of the first women psychiatrists commissioned in the Navy, and she was one of seven women Navy psychiatrists who served during World War II.

During her late nineties, Ozarin wrote over fifty brief biographies of psychiatrists on Wikipedia.

Ozarin died in Bethesda, Maryland on 17 September 2017 of respiratory failure at the age of 103.

[[René Drucker Colín]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Mexican journalists, Mexican educators, Writers from Mexico City, Scientists from Mexico City

René Raúl Drucker Colín (15 May 1937 – 17 September 2017) was a Mexican scientist, investigator and journalist. He was born in Mexico City, Mexico. He worked in the fields of physiology and neuroscience. From 1985 through 1990, he was the Director of Neuroscience at the National Autonomous University of Mexico. He served as President of the Mexican Academy of Sciences from 2000 through 2002.

Drucker Colín died on 17 September 2017 in Mexico City at the age of 80.

[[Jean Plaskie]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Belgian footballers, Sportspeople from Brussels

Jean Plaskie (24 August 1941 – 18 September 2017) was a Belgian former football player. He was born in Brussels, Belgium.

He played for R.S.C. Anderlecht and the Belgium. He played in the match Belgium-Netherlands in 1964 with 10 fellows from the Anderlecht team after the substitution of goalkeeper Delhasse by Jean Trappeniers.

Plaskie died on 18 September 2017 in Brussels at the age of 76.

[[William F. Goodling]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from intracranial aneurysm, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, United States representatives from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

William Franklin "Bill" Goodling (December 5, 1927 – September 17, 2017) was an American Republican politician. He was born in Loganville, Pennsylvania. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives from Pennsylvania's 19th congressional district from 1975 through 2001. 

At the time of his death, he was the Chairman of the Board of the Goodling Institute for Research in Family Literacy.

Goodling died from complications of a cerebral aneurysm on September 17, 2017 in York, Pennsylvania at the age of 89.

[[Richard V. Allen]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, United States National Security Advisors, Politicians from New Jersey, US Republican Party politicians

Richard Vincent Allen (born January 1, 1936) was the United States National Security Advisor to President Ronald Reagan from 1981 to 1982, having been Reagan's chief foreign policy advisor from 1977. He has been a fellow of the Hoover Institution since 1983. He was a  member of the Defense Policy Board Advisory Committee.

[[John Poindexter]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Admirals, American military people, Politicians from Indiana, United States National Security Advisors, US Republican Party politicians

John Marlan Poindexter (born August 12, 1936) is a retired United States naval officer and Department of Defense official. He was Deputy National Security Advisor and National Security Advisor for the Reagan administration. He was convicted in April 1990 of multiple felonies as a result of his actions in the Iran–Contra affair, but his convictions were reversed on appeal in 1991. 

[[Robert McFarlane]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, United States National Security Advisors, American political writers, Writers from Washington, D.C., Politicians from Washington, D.C.

Robert Carl "Bud" McFarlane (born July 12, 1937) is an American Marine Corps officer. He served as National Security Advisor to President of the United States Ronald Reagan from 1983 through 1985. 

McFarlane was involved in, and pleaded guilty to charges for actions related to, the Iran-Contra affair, but received a pardon from President George H. W. Bush.

[[Saliva (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands

Saliva is an American rock band from Memphis. They were signed to Island Records. The band was formed in 1996 and released their first album in 1997.

[[Nanyang]]

Nanyang is a way of writing two common Chinese place names. It may refer to:

[[Sikorsky S-92]]

CATEGORIES: Helicopters, Sikorsky aircraft & helicopter

Sikorsky S-92 is an American civil helicopter. When it's used by militaries it's called H-92 Superhawk. CH-148 Cyclone is a special variant built for Canadian services.

[[Grumman F11F Tiger]]

CATEGORIES: United States Navy aircraft, Vietnam War aircraft, Grumman aircraft

Grumman F11F Tiger is an American fighter jet. It was used by the US Navy, in particular by the Blue Angels. After September 1962 it was called F-11 Tiger.

None were sold to foreign countries.

[[Ásynja]]

CATEGORIES: Norse gods and goddesses

Ásynja (plural: asynjur) refers to Norse mythology. Female gods in Norse mythology are called Ásynja. The male gods are called Æsir; there are 14 Æsir, and there are also 14 asynjur.

[[List of Chinese mathematicians]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists, Chinese mathematicians, Asia-related lists

This is a list of noted mathematicians from China.

[[List of ecologists]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists

This is a list of noted ecologist by country.

[[Virgin and Child from the Sainte-Chapelle]]

CATEGORIES: Statues

The Virgin and Child is a statue carved out of the tusks of elephants, which is called ivory.

The statue was made some time around the year 1270 in France, and was made for the cathedral (or church) named the Sainte-Chapelle in Paris, France.

It is forty-one cm tall, and is a sculpture of the Virgin Mary holding the baby Jesus.

Some people think this is one of the most beautiful ivory carvings ever made.

The statue is now in the Louvre museum in Paris, France.

[[Morphallaxis]]

CATEGORIES: Biology

Morphallaxis is the when some living things regenerate or regrow tissue after the original tissue dies. The word comes from the Greek allazein, which means to exchange.

For example, if a Cnidarian hydra, a microscopic animal, is cut in half, two new hydra grow.

Around the year 1930, scientists Wilson and Child showed that if the hydra was smashed to pulp and put through an instrument with tiny holes in it to separate each cell individually but without breaking any one cell, the hydra completely reformed itself.

Most tissue in Morphallaxis grows from material already present material. Not much new tissue is created .

[[Hésingue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hésingue is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hettenschlag]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hettenschlag is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hindlingen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hindlingen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hirsingue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hirsingue is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[List of biologists]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of scientists, Biologists, Lists by country

This is a list of noted biologists.

[[Hirtzbach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hirtzbach is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hirtzfelden]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hirtzfelden is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hochstatt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hochstatt is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hohrod]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hohrod is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Holtzwihr]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 disestablishments in France

Holtzwihr is a former commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Porte-du-Ried.

[[Anglards-de-Saint-Flour]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Cantal

Anglards-de-Saint-Flour is a commune. It is in the Cantal department.

[[Albepierre-Bredons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Cantal

Albepierre-Bredons is a commune. It is in the Cantal department.

[[2017 Puebla earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 earthquakes, 2017 in North America, 2010s in Mexico, Earthquakes in Mexico, Puebla (state), September 2017 events

The 2017 Puebla earthquake  struck at 13:14 CDT (18:14 UTC) on 19 September 2017 with a magnitude estimated to be 7.1 on the seismic scale approximately 55 south of Puebla. It has caused damage in the Mexican state of Puebla and the Greater Mexico City area, including the collapse of over twenty buildings.

The quake occurred on the 32nd anniversary of the 1985 Mexico City earthquake, which killed about 10,000 people. The 1985 quake was commemorated on its anniversary with a national earthquake drill at 11 a.m. local time, two hours before the earthquake struck.

[[False alarm]]

CATEGORIES: Safety

A false alarm is an alert that is caused in error. False alarms can happen because of a problem with a technical system (like a faulty fire alarm), or they happen because someone alerted the emergency services in error. Many countries have laws that make causing a false alarm with bad intent (such as making hoax calls to the Police or Fire department) illegal. If there is no bad intent, in general there is also no punishment.

[[List of Ekushey Padak winners in Education and research]]

CATEGORIES: Award winners, Lists of people, Ekushey Padak

The Ekushey Padak in Education and research winners are listed here.

[[Electronic paper]]

CATEGORIES: Display technology, Paper

Electronic paper and e-paper are display devices that look like ordinary ink on paper.

Many electronic paper technologies keep the same text and images indefinitely without electricity. Flexible electronic paper uses plastic for the display.

[[Horbourg-Wihr]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Horbourg-Wihr is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. It is near Colmar.

[[Aspach-Michelbach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 establishments in France

Aspach-Michelbach is a commune of the Haut-Rhin department in France. It was made on 1 January 2016 from the communes of Aspach-le-Haut and Michelbach.

[[Michelbach, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 disestablishments in France

Michelbach is a former commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Aspach-Michelbach.

[[Houssen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Houssen is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Gerd Bollmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, German Protestants, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia

Gerd Friedrich Bollmann (28 September 1947 – 17 September 2017) was a German politician. He was born in Wanne-Eickel, Herne. He was a member of the SPD. In the German Bundestag he was one of the top voted SPD members in Germany's national parliament, where he represant the Herne-Area.

Bollmann died on September 17, 2017 at the age of 69.

[[Langwies]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Langwies is a former municipality, in the municipality of Arosa and the district Plessur in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Denens]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud

Denens is a municipality in Morges in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.

[[Gunningen]]

CATEGORIES: Tuttlingen

Gunningen is a municipality in Tuttlingen in Baden-Württemberg in Germany.

[[Hunawihr]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hunawihr is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Hundsbach, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Hundsbach is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Fostoria, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Fostoria is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is in Hancock, Seneca, and Wood counties. It is 64 km south of Toledo and 140 km north of Columbus.

[[Hurricane Maria]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in weather, Hurricanes, September 2017 events, October 2017 events, 2017 in North America, Hurricanes in North Carolina

Hurricane Maria was a severe Atlantic tropical cyclone in September 2017 which ended in early October 2017. 

It was the 13th named storm, 8th hurricane, 5th major hurricane, and a 2nd Category 5 hurricane of the hyperactive 2017 Atlantic hurricane season. 

Maria is regarded as the worst natural disaster in Dominican and Puerto Rican history. It struck Dominica as a Category 5 hurricane, Guadeloupe, and Puerto Rico as a high-end Category 4 hurricane. Maria was a Category 5 hurricane when she hit Dominica, Guadeloupe, and Puerto Rico.

At her peak, Maria had maximum sustained winds of 175 miles per hour. The storm brushed the Eastern United States.

Tropical storm and hurricane notices were posted from Dominican Republic to the Windward Islands.

The damage from Hurricane Maria was inflicted at $90 billion, especially in Puerto Rico after it made a direct hit and landfall in Puerto Rico as a high-end Category 4 hurricane.

As of August 28, 2018, 3,057 people were estimated to have been killed by the hurricane: 2,975 in Puerto Rico, 65 in Dominica, 5 in the Dominican Republic, 4 in the United States, 3 in Haiti, 2 in Guadeloupe, and 3 in the United States Virgin Islands.

Due to the large number of deaths and amounts of damage it caused especially in Puerto Rico, the name Maria was retired in April 2018 by the World Meteorological Organization, and it was replaced with Margot for the 2023 Atlantic hurricane season.

[[Tacoma Stars (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: American soccer teams

Tacoma Stars are a professional indoor soccer team located in Tacoma, Washington.

[[Reinach, Basel-Landschaft]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Landschaft, Cities in Switzerland

Reinach (Swiss German: Rynach) is a municipality of the district Arlesheim in the canton of Basel-Landschaft in Switzerland.

[[Muttenz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Landschaft, Cities in Switzerland

Muttenz (Swiss German: Muttez) is a municipality in Arlesheim in the canton of Basel-Landschaft in Switzerland.

[[Lantsch/Lenz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Lantsch/Lenz (Lenz, Lantsch) is a municipality in the district of Albula in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Lucerne-Land (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Lucerne, 2013 establishments in Switzerland

Lucerne-Land District is a new district of the Swiss canton of Lucerne.

These municipalities are in the district:

[[Lucerne-Stadt (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Lucerne, 2013 establishments in Switzerland

Lucerne-Land District is a new district of the Swiss canton of Lucerne. 81,592 people lived there in 31 December 2016. It includes only the city of Lucerne.

[[Erie County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1830s establishments in Ohio, 1838 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Erie County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 77,079 people lived there. The county seat is Sandusky.

[[Washington County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 18th-century establishments in the Northwest Territory, 1788 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Washington County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 61,778 people lived there. The county seat is Marietta.

[[Butler County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1803 establishments in Ohio

Butler County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 368,130 people lived there. The county seat is Hamilton.

[[Wood County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1820s establishments in Ohio, 1820 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Wood County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 125,488 people lived there. The county seat is Bowling Green.

[[Hereford, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Hereford is a city of Texas in the United States. 15,370 people lived there in the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Deaf Smith.

[[Franklin, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Franklin is a city in Ohio. In 2010, 11,771 people lived there. The Great Miami River flows through Franklin.

[[San Carlos, California]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s establishments in California, 1925 establishments in the United States, Cities in California, Settlements in San Mateo County, California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area

San Carlos is a city in San Mateo County, California, United States. It is about halfway between San Francisco and San Jose. 28,406 people lived there in the 2010 census.

[[Gahanna, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Gahanna is a city in Franklin County, Ohio, United States. It is a suburb of Columbus. 33,248 people lived there in the 2010 census.

[[Galion, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Galion is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is in Crawford, Morrow, and Richland counties. The population was 10,512 at the 2010 census. Galion is the second-largest city in Crawford County, after Bucyrus.

[[Marietta, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Marietta is a city in Ohio in the United States. It is the county seat of Washington County. 14,085 people lived there in the 2010 census.

The Muskingum River and Duck Creek flow into the Ohio River at Marietta.

[[Lillian Ross]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Journalists from New York City, People from Syracuse, New York

Lillian Ross (Lillian Rosovsky; June 8, 1918 – September 20, 2017) was an American journalist and author. She was born in Syracuse, New York. Ross was a staff writer at The New Yorker from 1945 until she retired in 2001. She was known for her interviews with author J. D. Salinger.

Ross died from a stroke in Manhattan on September 20, 2017, at age 99.

[[James Morwood]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Educators, Writers from Surrey

James Henry Weldon Morwood (25 November 1943 – 10 September 2017) was an English Classicist, and Emeritus Fellow of Wadham College, Oxford University. He was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland.

Morwood’s status as a teacher of Classics was recognised in the 1990s when he was appointed President of the London Association of Classical Teachers for 1995-6,  and subsequently President of the Joint Association of Classical Teachers (JACT) for 1999-2001. Morwood had a long association with JACT and with its Greek Summer School, which was launched in London in 1967

Morwood died in Ouranoupoli, Greece on 10 September 2017 of a heart attack at the age of 73.

[[David Shepherd (artist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Environmentalists, British activists, British painters, People from London

Richard David Shepherd CBE FRSA FGRA (25 April 1931 – 19 September 2017) was a British artist. He was known as one of the world's most outspoken conservationists. He was born in London, England.

Shepherd was most famous for his paintings of steam locomotives (he owned a number of them) and wildlife, although he also often painted aircraft, portraits (notably The Queen Mother) and landscapes. His work has been extremely popular since the 1960s in limited edition print reproduction and poster form, as well as other media such as Wedgwood limited edition plates.  He published five books about his art, including an autobiography.

Shepherd died on 19 September 2017 of Parkinson's disease in Manchester, England at the age of 86.

[[Conservation movement]]

CATEGORIES: Conservation

The conservation movement, also known as nature conservation, is a political, environmental and a social movement that seeks to protect natural resources including animal and plant species as well as their habitat for the future.

The early conservation movement included fisheries and wildlife management, water, soil conservation and sustainable forestry. The contemporary conservation movement has broadened from the early movement's emphasis on use of sustainable yield of natural resources and preservation of wilderness areas to include preservation of biodiversity.

[[Irwin Winkler]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, American Jews, Movie directors from New York City, Movie producers from New York City

Irwin Winkler (born May 25, 1931) is an American movie producer and director. He is the producer or director of 50 movies, dating back to 1967's Double Trouble, starring Elvis Presley.  

The fourth movie he produced, They Shoot Horses, Don't They? (1969), starring Jane Fonda, was nominated for nine Academy Awards. He won an Oscar for Best Picture for 1976's Rocky.  As a producer, he has been nominated for Best Picture for three other films: Raging Bull, The Right Stuff, and Goodfellas.

Winkler was born to a Jewish family in New York City. He studied at New York University.

[[Ene Mihkelson]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Estonian people, Novelists

Ene Mihkelson (21 October 1944 – 20 September 2017) was an Estonian writer. He was born in Tammeküla, Imavere Parish, Viljandi County. 

Mihkelson has also published four novels, a selection of critical essays (Kirjanduse seletusi, or Explanations of Literature) and a collection of short stories (Surma sünnipäev, or The Birthday of Death). In 2001 she published the novel Ahasveeruse uni.

Mihkelson's works frequently include allusions to her childhood, spent in hiding, Estonian mythology, and Estonian history.

In 2006 she was awarded the Herder Prize and in 2010 the Baltic Assembly Prize for Literature.

Mihkelson died in Tartu, Estonia on 20 September 2017 at the age of 72.

[[John Larroquette]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, Drama Desk Award winners, 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American television directors, Libertarians, Actors from New Orleans, Louisiana

John Bernard Larroquette (born November 25, 1947) is an American actor and television director. He was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. He first became known as the narrator in the 1974 horror movie The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.

His roles include Dan Fielding on the 1984–1992 sitcom Night Court (winning four consecutive Emmy Awards for his role), Mike McBride in the Hallmark Channel series McBride, John Hemingway on The John Larroquette Show, and Carl Sack in Boston Legal. 

Larroquette is currently playing Jenkins/Galahad in TNT's The Librarians.

Larroquette battled alcoholism from the mid-1970s to the early 1980s. On The Tonight Show with Jay Leno on March 10, 2007, he joked, "I was known to have a cocktail or 60." He stopped drinking February 6, 1982.

[[SummerSlam (2017)]]

CATEGORIES: SummerSlam, 2017 in sports, 2010s in New York (state), 2017 in the United States, August 2017 events

SummerSlam (2017) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event and WWE Network event produced by WWE for the Raw and SmackDown brands. It took place on August 20, 2017, at Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York. It was the thirtieth event under the SummerSlam chronology.

Thirteen matches were contested at the event, including three on the pre-show. The event featured eight championship matches, the most for a SummerSlam event, where five of the titles changed hands. In the main event, Brock Lesnar defeated Braun Strowman, Roman Reigns, and Samoa Joe in a fatal four-way match to retain the Universal Championship and in the penultimate match, Jinder Mahal defeated Shinsuke Nakamura to retain the WWE Championship. On the undercard, AJ Styles defeated Kevin Owens to retain the United States Championship in a match that featured Shane McMahon as the special guest referee, Dean Ambrose and Seth Rollins defeated Cesaro and Sheamus to win the Raw Tag Team Championship, and John Cena defeated Baron Corbin in the opening match.

[[Jean Fouquet]]

CATEGORIES: 1420 births, 1481 deaths, French painters

Jean (or Jehan) Fouquet (1420–1481) was an important French painter of the 15th century, a master of both panel painting and manuscript illumination, and the apparent inventor of the portrait miniature. He was the first French artist to travel to Italy and experience first-hand the early Italian Renaissance.

[[Sore throat]]

CATEGORIES: Pain

Sore throat or throat pain is pain in a person's throat.

About 7.5% or 3 of people have sore throat in any three-month period. Most of the time, it is caused by viral pharyngitis. It can also be caused by bad tonsils, trauma, strep throat, tumors, and other problems.

Treatment varies with the different causes, but the painful symptoms can be helped with medicine such as cough drops or, in China, pear-syrup candy.

[[Simmering]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking methods

Simmering is a method of cooking in water, where the temperature is kept just below that where the water would boil.

The temperature at which this is achieved is around 95.

To bring water to the point where it simmers, you first heat the water to boiling point, which is 100, then reduce the heat so that the bubbles on top of the water have almost stopped.

[[Manuel Mejuto González]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Civil servants, Italian sportspeople, People from Asturias, Referees

Manuel Enrique Mejuto González (born 16 April 1965) is a former Spanish football referee. His most important refereeing role was in the 2005 UEFA Champions League Final in Istanbul, between Liverpool and Milan. He became a FIFA listed referee in 1999. He retired in August 2010.

Mejuto was born in La Felguera, Asturias. Outside of football, he is a civil servant.

[[Northern Norway]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Norway

Northern Norway is a geographical region of Norway. It is the three northernmost counties Nordland, Troms and Finnmark.

Northern Norway has a total of about 35% of the Norwegian mainland. Some of the largest towns in Northern Norway (from south to north) are Mo i Rana, Bodø, Narvik, Harstad, Tromsø and Alta. Northern Norway is often described as the land of the midnight sun and the land of the northern lights.

[[Kurów, West Pomeranian Voivodeship]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Kurów is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kołbaskowo, in Police County, West Pomeranian Voivodeship in northwestern Poland. It is the border to Germany. It is 20 km south of Police and 9 km southwest of the regional capital Szczecin.

[[Sissach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Landschaft

Sissach is the capital of the district of Sissach in the canton of Basel-Landschaft in Switzerland.

[[Williams County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1820s establishments in Ohio, 1824 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Williams County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 37,642 people lived there. The county seat is Bryan.

[[Lavin]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Lavin is a former municipality of the district of Inn in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Lavin and Susch merged into the municipality of Zernez.

[[Maple Heights, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Maple Heights is a city in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, United States. At the 2010 census, 23,138 people lived there.

[[Allen County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1831 establishments in Ohio

Allen County is a county of Ohio in the United States. As of the 2010 census, 106,331 people lived there. The county seat is Lima.

[[Van Wert County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1830s establishments in Ohio, 1837 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Van Wert County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In 2010, 28,744 people lived there. The county seat is Van Wert.

[[Adams County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio counties, 1790s establishments in the Northwest Territory, 1797 establishments in the United States

Adams County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. In the 2010 census, 28,550 people lived there. The county seat is West Union. It was founded in 1797 and named after John Adams, the second President of the United States.

The county has a total area of 586.

[[Loveland, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Loveland is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio.

[[Huningue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Huningue is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. It is a northern suburb of the Swiss city of Basel.

[[Husseren-les-Châteaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Husseren-les-Châteaux is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Alfonso X]]

CATEGORIES: 1221 births, 1284 deaths, Kings and Queens of Spain, Spanish Roman Catholics

Alfonso X (23 November 1221 – 4 April 1284), called the Wise, was the King of Castile, León and Galicia from 30 May 1252 until his death.

[[Tandem trike]]

CATEGORIES: Land vehicles

Tandem trike is a vehicle with three wheels for two or more people, who drive it together with their forces. It is not the same as a classic  cycle rickshaw with clear separation between chauffeur and the passengers. By 2017, the following firms are known to produce tandem trikes:

[[1893 Sea Islands hurricane]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in the United States, 1893, 1890s in the United States, 19th century in Georgia (U.S. state), History of South Carolina, August events

The 1893 Sea Islands hurricane was a very deadly tropical cyclone. It was Category 3 under Saffir-Simpson scale. The storm had winds near 120 mph. It made landfall at the Georgia-South Carolina border in late August 1893.

The hurricane had a severe storm surge.

It took the lives of 1,000–2,000 people when it made landfall, mostly from storm surge.

[[Château de Nantouillet]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in France, Île-de-France, 16th century establishments in France

The Château de Nantouillet is a ruined château at Nantouillet, a very small town in the Seine-et-Marne département of north-central France. Antoine Duprat, a French cardinal and politician, built it in the 16th century. He died in the château on 15 July 1535. There was an old fort on the land before Duprat built the château..

The château was classed as a monument historique (historic monument) of France in 1862.

[[Auglaize County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in Ohio, 1848 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Auglaize County is a county of Ohio in the United States. In 2010, 45,949 people lived there. The county seat is Wapakoneta. It is named after the Auglaize River.

The county has a total area of 402.

[[1909 Monterrey hurricane]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes, 1909

The 1909 Monterrey hurricane was one of the most deadly tropical cyclones on record. The storm struck the Leeward Islands, Puerto Rico, Hispaniola, Cuba, Mexico and southern Texas. This hurricane happened in August 1909.

The winds of the storm peaked at 120 miles per hour.

More than 4,000 lives were lost because of the hurricane.

[[Prince Giovanni Natoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1633 deaths, Princes and princesses

Giovanni Forti Natoli or Gianforte Natoli  was a Sicilian nobleman, the son of Blasco Natoli Lanza and Domenica Giambruno Perna. He was baron of S. Bartolomeo and Belice. On 20 August 1597 he bought the barony of Sperlinga from Giovanni Ventimiglia, marquis of Gerace, for 30,834 ounces of gold. Natoli was granted a  licentia populandi cum privilegium aedificandi ("licence to populate and build") by the king of Sicily, Philip II of Spain. In 1627 he was made prince of Sperlinga by Philip IV of Spain.

Natoli was married twice: first to Maria Cottone Aragona, daughter of Stefano, count of Bauso; and second, to Melchiora Orioles Moncada, daughter of Orazio, baron of San Pietro di Patti. With the latter he had a son, Francesco Natoli.

Giovanni Natoli died on 15 July 1633.

[[Leggia]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Leggia is a former municipality of the district of Moesa in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2017 the former municipalities of Leggia and Verdabbio merged into the municipality of Grono.

[[Lohn, Graubünden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Lohn (Lon) is a municipality in the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. It is 13 km south of Thusis.

[[Lostallo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Lostallo is a municipality of the district of Moesa in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Scharans]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Scharans (Scharons) is a municipality of the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Splügen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden, Cities in Switzerland, Ski areas and resorts in Switzerland

Splügen (Spleia, Spluga) is a former municipality of the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2006 Splügen incorporated its neighbouring municipality of Medels im Rheinwald.

On 1 January 2019 the former municipalities of Hinterrhein, Nufenen and Splügen merged to form the new municipality of Rheinwald.

In 1995, the Swiss Heritage Society bestowed the Wakker Prize to Splügen.

The Splügen Pass road leads from Splügen to Chiavenna and rises to a height of 2020.

[[Scheid]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden, Villages in Graubünden

Scheid (Sched) is a village and former municipality of the district of Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Scheid, Feldis/Veulden, Trans and Tumegl/Tomils merged into the new municipality of Tomils.

[[Mundaun]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Switzerland, 2016 disestablishments in Switzerland, Former municipalities of Graubünden

Mundaun is a former municipality of the district Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2009 the former municipalities of Flond and Surcuolm merged into the new municipality of Mundaun.

On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Mundaun and Obersaxen merged into the new municipality of Obersaxen Mundaun.

[[Veyras]]

Veyras can mean:

[[Husseren-Wesserling]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Husseren-Wesserling is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Mr. Burns]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1989

Charles Montgomery Burns (known as C. Montgomery Burns and Monty Burns, but usually said as Mr. Burns) is a fictional character in the animated television series The Simpsons. Harry Shearer is the voice actor for Burns. Christopher Collins was the voice actor for him in the first season. Waylon Smithers is his assistant. He is the owner of Springfield's power plant.

[[Bernie Casey]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from West Virginia, Actors who played Felix Leiter, African-American movie actors, African-American television actors, American football wide receivers, American poets, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Los Angeles Rams players, San Francisco 49ers players, Sportspeople from West Virginia

Bernard Terry Casey (June 8, 1939 – September 19, 2017) was an American actor, poet, and professional football player. He was born in Wyco, West Virginia. He played a version of himself, and other football players turned actors, in Keenen Ivory Wayans's 1988 comedic movie I'm Gonna Git You Sucka. He played a high school teacher in Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, released in 1989.

Casey played for the San Francisco 49ers from 1961 through 1966 and for the Los Angeles Rams from 1967 through 1968.

Casey died at a hospital in Los Angeles, California on September 19, 2017 at the age of 78.

[[Teddy Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Scottish politicians, People from Glasgow

Sir Edward MacMillan Taylor (18 April 1937 – 20 September 2017) was a Scottish Conservative Party politician. He was a member of parliament (MP) from 1964 to 1979 for Glasgow Cathcart and from 1980 to 2005 for Rochford and Southend East.

He was a leading member and vice-president of the Conservative Monday Club.

Taylor died on 20 September 2017 at the age of 80.

[[Börje Vestlund]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2017 deaths, LGBT politicians, Gay men, Swedish politicians

Börje Vestlund (2 February 1960 – 22 September 2017) was a Swedish social democratic politician. He was a Member of the Riksdag from 2002 until his death in 2017. He was openly gay.

Vestlund died on 22 September 2017 in Stockholm, Sweden at the age of 67.

[[William G. Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, English television producers, English television directors, English television presenters, English television personalities, Actors from Lincolnshire

William Gladstone Stewart (15 July 1933 – 21 September 2017) was an English television producer, director, and host. He was best known as the presenter and producer of the Channel 4 general quiz show Fifteen to One from 1988 to 2003. He was born in Habrough, Lincolnshire, England.

Stewart died on 21 September 2017 at the age of 84.

[[Mohammed Mahdi Akef]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Egyptian politicians, Muslims, Deaths from sepsis

Mohammed Mahdi Akef (محمد مهدي عاكف) (July 12, 1928 – September 22, 2017) was the head of the Muslim Brotherhood, an Egypt-based Islamic political movement, from 2004 until 2010.  He assumed the post, that of "general guide" (مرشد العام) (frequently translated as "chairman") upon the death of his predecessor, Ma'mun al-Hudaybi. Akef was arrested on 4 July 2013. 

On 14 July 2013 Egypt's new prosecutor general Hisham Barakat ordered his assets to be frozen.

Akef died on 22 September 2017 in Cairo of sepsis at the age of 89.

[[Sicilians]]

CATEGORIES: People from Sicily, Ethnic groups in Europe

Sicilians (Sicilian: Siciliani) are the people native to the island of Sicily, an autonomous region of Italy.

Sicilians are the native people living in the island of Sicily. They are usually bilingual, Sicilian and Italian language are both spoken in the island. After the unification of Italy, Sicilians have been part of the country living in an autonomous region, which is also the fourth most populated of all Italy's regions.

[[Donald J. Cram]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2001 deaths, American academics, American chemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Harvard University alumni, Scientists from Vermont

Donald James Cram (April 22, 1919 – June 17, 2001) was an American chemist who received the 1987 Nobel Prize in Chemistry together with Jean-Marie Lehn and Charles J. Pedersen. He specialized in the field of organic chemistry. 

[[Stefan Hell]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, German physicists, Romanian scientists, German chemists, German Nobel Prize winners, Living people

Stefan Walter Hell (born 23 December 1962) is a German physicist. He is one of the directors of the Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry in Göttingen, Germany. He received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2014 "for the development of super-resolved fluorescence microscopy", together with Eric Betzig and William Moerner.

He was born into a Banat Swabian family in Arad, Romania, and grew up at his parents' home in nearby Sântana.

In 1981, he began his studies at the Heidelberg University. He received his doctorate in physics in 1990.

[[Rudolf Friedrich]]

CATEGORIES: Swiss politicians, 1923 births, 2013 deaths

Rudolf Friedrich (4 July 1923 – 15 October 2013) was a Swiss politician and lawyer. He was a member of the Swiss Federal Council (1982–1984).

He was elected to the Swiss Federal Council on 8 December 1982 and, for health reason, resigned his office on 20 October 1984. He was a member to the Free Democratic Party. During his office time he held the Federal Department of Justice and Police.

[[Madulain]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Madulain is a municipality of the district Maloja in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Illfurth]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Illfurth is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Illhaeusern]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Illhaeusern is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[51 Trouble Hoover Crip]]

The 51 Trouble gang is an American criminal street gang in Los Angeles, California.  Most of the members of the 51 Street gang are African-Americans. The 51 Street gang is one of the oldest street gangs in Los Angeles and it has been occupying its territory since the 1990s.They are close allies with 52 Hoover gangster crips and sometimes this alliance is called 51-duece crips.They are actively at war with rollin 50s which resulted in many casualties.Also,they beef with all the Neighborhoods due to their bitter hatred for them.  They protect their communities there from racism against African Americans, disrputive politics, and unjust socialism by urban warfare. The 51 street gang is a conservative movement and are backed and supported by Washington D.C. because of their ancestry in the American Indian wars and World War II.

There have been branches of the 51 Street Gang in other cities, like Kansas City, Missouri.

Authorities have suspected 51 Street Crips of such crimes as giving out fake money.

[[Bush ballad]]

CATEGORIES: Australian folklore, Poetry forms

The bush ballad, bush song or bush poem is a style of poetry and folk music that describes the life, character and scenery of the Australian bush. Bush ballads usually have a simple rhyme structure. They can be funny or sad. The words used are colourful, colloquial and Australian. They tell stories of action and adventure about bushranging, droving, droughts, floods, life on the frontier, and relations between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians.

The first ballads were created by British and Irish settlers and convicts who brought with them the folk music of their homelands. They were usually not written down, but passed around verbally. The ballads grew into a unique style over the years, becoming very popular in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Australians thought they were "an authentic expression of the national spirit". Through bush poetry, newspapers and magazines, like The Bulletin,  promoted mateship, egalitarianism, anti-authoritarianism and a concern for the "battler" as being ideal Australian values.

Bush ballads are not as popular in modern times, but the poems written up to Federation are still some of the best-known and loved poems in Australia. The "bush bards" such as Henry Lawson and Banjo Paterson are regarded as giants of Australian literature. Clubs and festivals devoted to bush poetry can be found throughout the country, and the tradition lives on in Australian country music.

[[Naki The Beatman]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), American songwriters, American rap musicians from California, American rap musicians from Illinois, Singers from Chicago

Naki The Beatman is an American music producer and DJ based in California. Naki is known for hosting a night show on WGCI and WPWX Power 92 which was the #2 rated night show in Chicago. Naki is a Radio host on the San Francisco based On-Air Radio Q102.1 FM.

== Career == 

Naki, hosted a show called "The Power Hour" which featured Kanye West, GLC & Lupe Fiasco. Later, Naki pursued music full time and produced several projects for 50 Cent, Twista, Do Or Die, Lloyd Banks, Angel Davanport, Billy Vidal. Naki, was the first non-celebrity to host MTV2's Sucka Free Sunday. Also, Naki is one of the voting members of The Recording Academy.

[[Aimaq Hazara]]

CATEGORIES: Hazara tribes, Hazara people, Ethnic groups in Afghanistan

Aimaq Hazara is a group of Aimaq people of Hazara origin. They live in Afghanistan and they are Sunni Muslims.

[[Aimaq people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Afghanistan

The Aimaq or Aimak (ایماق‎‎), are a collection of Persian-speaking nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes in Afghanistan. They are a minority group in Pakistan and Iran.

[[Aimaq dialect]]

CATEGORIES: Language articles with speaker number undated, Hazara people, Persian language

Aimaq (ایماقی) is a ethnolect of the Persian language spoken by the Aimaq people in central northwest Afghanistan (west of the Hazarajat), Tajikistan, and in eastern Iran.

[[Novarupta]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of the United States

Novarupta (meaning "newly erupted" in Latin) is a volcano that was formed in 1912.  It is located on the Alaska Peninsula in Katmai National Park and Preserve, about 290 southwest of Anchorage. Formed during the largest volcanic eruption of the 20th century, Novarupta released 30 times the volume of magma of the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens.

[[Eurovision Song Contest 2018]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s in Portugal, 2018 in Europe, 2018 in music, Eurovision Song Contest, 21st century in Portugal, Lisbon, May 2018 events

The Eurovision Song Contest 2018 was the 63rd edition of the Eurovision Song Contest and took place in Portugal's capital Lisbon, after Salvador Sobral won for his country in Kiev, Ukraine last year.

Netta who represented Israel won the final.

[[Suresh Raina]]

CATEGORIES: Indian cricketers

Suresh Kumar Raina (born 27 November 1986) is an Indian professional cricketer. An aggressive left-handed middle-order batsman and an occasional off-spin bowler, he is considered as one of the best fielders in world cricket. He plays for Uttar Pradesh in all forms of domestic cricket. He is the captain of Gujarat Lions in the Indian Premier League, and was the vice-captain of the Chennai Super Kings. He has also captained the Indian cricket team and is the second-youngest player ever to captain India. He is the first of the three Indian batsmen to ever score a century in all three formats of international cricket. He was born in Ghaziabad. Raina made his ODI debut in July 2005 against Sri Lanka at the age of 19. However, his Test debut came about five years later, in July 2010, against the same opposition. He scored a hundred on his Test debut. He was a part of the Indian squad that won the 2011 World Cup, Captained team Uttar Pradesh, India (on several occasions), India – A, Gujarat Lions and Chennai Super Kings (3 matches).

[[Ghaziabad district, Uttar Pradesh]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Uttar Pradesh

Ghaziabad district is a largely suburban district of [[Uttar Pradesh]] state in northern India, within the [[National Capital Region]]. The town of [[Ghaziabad]] is the administrative headquarters of the district. This district is part of Uttar Pradesh's [[Meerut Division]]. It has become a major bedroom community (Commuter town) for [[Delhi]].

[[Gautam Budh Nagar district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Uttar Pradesh

Gautam Budh Nagar is a largely suburban district of Uttar Pradesh state in northern India. It is part of the National Capital Region (India). Greater Noida is the district administrative headquarters. The city of Greater Noida is India's first ISO 160001 certified city.

Gautam Budh Nagar is an important industrial district of Uttar Pradesh. The city of Greater Noida has evolved as an epicenter for technical education and industrial expansion.

[[Meerut district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Uttar Pradesh

Meerut district is one of the districts of Uttar Pradesh state of India, and Meerut is the district headquarters. Meerut district is also a part of the Meerut division. The administrative head of district of Meerut is a District Magisrtate while the administrative head of Meerut Division is Divisional Commissioner, an IAS officer.

[[Verquigneul]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Pas-de-Calais

Verquigneul is a commune. It is found in the region Nord-Pas-de-Calais in the Pas-de-Calais department in the north of France.

[[Vampirina]]

CATEGORIES: American animated television series

Vampirina is an American-Irish animated television series first aired on October 1, 2017. The show is based on the "Vampirina Ballerina" series of books written by Anne Marie Pace and illustrated by LeUyen Pham, published by Disney-Hyperion. Disney Junior announced the series in March, 2016; the adaptation is being worked on by executives from Doc McStuffins.

[[Oscar E. Huber]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2017 deaths, American centenarians, Politicians from South Dakota, Ranchers, US Republican Party politicians

Oscar E. Huber (August 22, 1917 – September 9, 2017) was an American politician. He was born in Edmunds County, South Dakota. He was a member of the South Dakota House of Representatives from 1961 to 1972 and was a member of the Republican Party. 

Huber studied at Northern State University and the University of Minnesota. Huber was a farmer and rancher at his ranch in Bowdle, South Dakota. 

Huber died at his ranch in Bowdle the age of 100 on September 9, 2017.

[[Leonid Kharitonov]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Russian singers

Leonid Mikhailovich Kharitonov (Леонид Михайлович Харитонов) (18 September 1933 – 19 September 2017) was a Russian bass-baritone (баритональный бас) singer. He was honoured with People's Artist of Russia and Honoured Artist of Russia. In other parts of Europe, he was noted for his 1965 video of the "Song of the Volga Boatmen". He was born in Irkutsk, Soviet Union.

Kharitonov died on 19 September 2017 in Moscow at the age of 84.

[[Beaumetz (disambiguation)]]

Beaumetz can mean:

[[Illzach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Illzach is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Ingersheim, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Ingersheim is a French commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department east France.

[[Issenheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Issenheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Forbach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Moselle, Subprefectures in France

Forbach is a commune in the French Moselle department. It is on the border to Germany.

[[Jebsheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Jebsheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Afzal Ahsan Randhawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Pakistani writers, Pakistani politicians, Playwrights, Poets

Muhammad Afzal Ahsan Randhawa (محمد افضل احسن رندھاوا‎, 1 September 1937 – 18 September 2017) was a Pakistani Punjabi language writer, poet, translator, playwright and a politician. He authored several short stories and novels in the Punjabi language including Sooraj Grehan and Doaba. He received the Pride of Performance and Kamal-e-Fun awards for his literary work.

On the evening of 18 September 2017, Randhawa died at the age of 80 in Faisalabad, Pakistan.

[[José Salcedo]]

CATEGORIES: Goya Award winners, 1949 births, 2017 deaths, Spanish people, Movie editors

José Salcedo (c. 1949 – 19 September 2017) was a Spanish movie editor with over 120 feature movie credits. He had an extended collaboration with the director Pedro Almodóvar, having edited all of Almodóvar's movies since 1980. He was born in Ciudad Real, Spain.

Salcedo had been nominated many times for Goya Awards for movie editing, and won the award three times: for Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown (1988), Nobody Will Speak of Us When We're Dead (1995), and All About My Mother (1999).

Salcedo died on 19 September 2017 in Madrid, Spain at the age of 68.

[[Shmuel Moreh]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Iraqi Jews, Israeli academics, Jewish academics, Jewish Israeli writers, Linguists, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Baghdad

Shmuel Moreh (שמואל מורה; December 22, 1932 – September 22, 2017) was a professor of Arabic Language and Literature at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. He was awarded the Israel Prize in Middle Eastern studies in 1999. He was born in Baghdad, Iraq.

In addition to having written many books and articles dealing with Arabic literature in general and Iraqi Jewish Arabic literature in particular, he has been a major contributor to Elaph, the first online independent daily journal in the Arabic language.  Professor Moreh wrote in Arabic, Hebrew, and English.

Moreh died on September 22, 2017 in Tel Aviv, Israel at the age of 84.

[[Charles Bradley]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, Cancer deaths in New York City, American soul singers, American funk singers, American R&B singers, Singers from Florida

Charles Edward Bradley (November 5, 1948 – September 23, 2017) was an American funk/soul/R&B singer, signed to the Daptone Records label under the Dunham Records division.  

His performances and recording style were consistent with Daptone's revivalist approach, celebrating the feel of funk and soul music from the 1960s and 1970s.  One review said he "echoes the evocative delivery of Otis Redding".

Calling himself "the screaming eagle of soul", Bradley was the subject of the documentary Soul of America which premiered at South by Southwest in 2012.

Bradley was diagnosed with stomach cancer in October 2016. He died on September 23, 2017 in Brooklyn, New York at the age of 68.

[[Sharbat Ali Changezi]]

CATEGORIES: Hazara politicians, Hazara people, Pakistani politicians

Sharbat Ali Changezi (Urdu: شربت علی چنگیزی) is a Pakistani, Hazara retired Air Marshal.

Changezi was born in Quetta, British India into a family of Hazara ethnic group, He was the Air Marshal of Pakistan Air Force and veteran of Indo-Pakistani War of 1965 and 1971.

[[Bud Selig]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Allan Huber "Bud" Selig (born July 30, 1934) is an American baseball executive. He currently serves as the Commissioner Emeritus of Baseball. Before, he served as the ninth Commissioner of Baseball. He initially served as the acting commissioner beginning in 1992 before being named the official commissioner in 1998.

[[Raymond Berry]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American football coaches, Indianapolis Colts players, Sportspeople from Texas, People from Corpus Christi, Texas

Raymond Emmett Berry (born February 27, 1933) is a former American football player and coach in the National Football League (NFL). He played as a split end for the Baltimore Colts from 1955 to 1967, and after several assistant coaching positions, was head coach of the New England Patriots from 1984 to 1989.

Berry also coached the Dallas Cowboys, the Detroit Lions, the Cleveland Browns, and the Denver Broncos.

Berry was born in Corpus Christi, Texas. He studied at Southern Methodist University.

[[Muhammad Musa Khan Hazara]]

CATEGORIES: Hazara politicians, Hazara people, Pakistani politicians, 1908 births, 1991 deaths

General Muhammad Musa Khan Hazara (October 20, 1908 – March 12, 1991) was a military personnel and politician in Pakistan. He was the fourth Commander in Chief of Pakistan Army from 1966 to 1969.

He was the eldest son of Sardar Yazdan Khan, born in a Hazara family of Quetta, British India, in 1908. He died in 12 March 1991 in office as Governor of Balochistan.

[[Irreligious theism]]

CATEGORIES: Theology

Irreligious theism is the belief that there is a higher being, but doesn't follow organized religion, this belief can be often confused for Deism, however irreligious theists often believe that god can still interfere in the world, also Irreligious theists believe in supernatural events like miracles, while Deists don't believe in that.

Famous irreligious theists from history include Austrian-American mathematician, logician, and philosopher Kurt Gödel, and American author Martin Gardner.

[[Centre (politics)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

In politics, centrism or the centre is a political ideology that supports a balance of social hierarchy and social equality. Centrism goes against both left-wing politics and right-wing politics. The label is used for political parties, organizations and groups that believe in centrism like the Australian Democrats. Centrism is also usually associated with centre-left and centre-right political ideologies because they are close in left-right politics.

Examples of centrist political ideologies are Christian Democracy or Liberalism. 

[[Bertha Krupp]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1955 deaths, German people

Bertha Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach (29 March 1886 – 21 September 1957) was a member of the Krupp family, Germany's leading industrial dynasty of the 19th and 20th centuries. As the elder child and heir of Friedrich Alfred Krupp she was the sole proprietor of the Krupp industrial empire from 1902 to 1943, although her husband, Gustav Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach, ran the company in her name. In 1943 ownership of the company was transferred to her son Alfried.

[[Free Voters]]

CATEGORIES: Political organizations based in Europe

Free Voters (German: Freie Wähler; abbreviated as FW) is a group of politicians which takes part in the elections but is not registered as a political party. Free Voters usually only run in the local elections. The group attracts conservative voters who prefer local decisions in politics.

In the 2014 European Parliament elections, the Free Voters won a seat in the European Parliament. Ulrike Müller is currently the only Free Voter MEP in the European Parliament. The Free Voters association joined the European Democratic Party (which is a centrist and pro-European Union political party in the European Parliament) in October 2015.

[[Jordi Pujol]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Political activists, Presidents of the Government of Catalonia, Politicians from Barcelona

Jordi Pujol i Soley (ˈʒɔrði puˈʒɔɫ i suˈɫɛj, born 9 June 1930) is a Spanish politician. He was the leader of the party Convergència Democràtica de Catalunya (CDC) from 1974 to 2003, and President of Catalonia from 1980 to 2003.

[[Arne Solli]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Military people, People from Oslo

Arne Solli (6 April 1938 – 20 September 2017) was a Norwegian general. He served as Chief of Defence of Norway (Forsvarssjef) from 31 October 1994 until 30 April 1999. He was born in Oslo, Norway

In 1995 he was awarded the title of Commander of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav. 

Solli died on 20 September 2017 in Oslo at the age of 79.

[[Andy Muschietti]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Argentine movie producers, Argentine screenwriters, Argentine movie directors, People from Buenos Aires

Andrés Muschietti (musˈkjeti; born 26 August 1973), usually credited as Andy Muschietti, is an Argentine movie director and screenwriter. He is best known for directing the 2013 horror movie Mama and the It duology starting with It: Chapter One (2017) and the 2019 sequel It: Chapter Two. He will also direct the 2022 DC Extended Universe movie The Flash.

[[Trapani]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Sicily, Capital cities in Italy

Trapani (Tràpani; Drepanon; Δρέπανον) is a city in western Sicily. It is the capital of the Province of Trapani. The city has population of around 69,000 people.

[[Shandong Provincial Museum of Geology]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in China

Shandong Provincial Museum of Geology is a museum in the Jinan, Shandong province, China.

[[Willemstad]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in North America, Curaçao

Willemstad is the capital city of Curaçao, an island in the southern Caribbean Sea that forms a constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. In 2008, 140,000 people lived there.

[[Pali Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

Pali Wikipedia is a wikipedian edition of the language of Pali. It is an old language present in the Indian subcontinent. This language is the language used by Gautam Buddha to write his writings that is the Buddhist texts.

About 2524 articles were written in Pali Wikipedia. It presently stands in the 212th place of list of wikipedias by article count.

[[Aleksey Goman]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people

Aleksey Vladimirovich Goman (born 12 September 1983 in Murmansk, Russian SFSR, U.S.S.R.) is a Russian musician and poet. He is best known for winning Narodniy Artist-1 (a TV show based on the British Pop Idol). In 2005, he was the prize winner of the Festival of Patriotic songs.

[[Ethnic groups in Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Afghanistan

Afghanistan is a multi-ethnic country. Ethnic groups in Afghanistan include the Pashtun, Tajik, Hazara, Uzbek, Aimaq, Turkmen, Baloch, Pashayi, Nuristani, Gujjar, Arab, Brahui, Qizilbash, Pamiri, Moghol and a few others.

[[Agra district]]

CATEGORIES: Agra district

Agra district is one of the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh state of India, and the historical city of Agra is the district headquarters. Agra district is a part of Agra division.

[[Fatehpur Sikri]]

CATEGORIES: Agra district

Fatehpur Sikri or the city of victory is a town in the Agra District of Uttar Pradesh, India. The city was founded in 1569 by the Mughal Emperor Akbar, and served as the capital of the Mughal Empire from 1571 to 1585, when it was abandoned. After his military victories over Chittor and Ranthambore, Akbar decided to shift his capital from Agra to a new location 23 miles (37 km) west south-west, to honour the Sufi saint Salim Chishti. Here, he commenced the construction of a planned walled city, which took the next fifteen years in planning and construction, with a series of royal palaces, harem, courts, a mosque, private quarters and other utility buildings. He named the city Fatehabad, with Fateh, a word of Arabic origin in Persian, meaning "victorious." It was later called Fatehpur Sikri. It is at Fatehpur Sikri that the legends of Akbar and his famed courtiers, the nine jewels or Navaratnas, were born. Fatehpur Sikri is one of the best preserved examples of Mughal architecture in India.

[[Murmansk Oblast]]

CATEGORIES: Oblasts of Russia, Federal subjects of Russia

Murmansk Oblast (Russian: Му́рманская о́бласть, Murmanskaya oblast' ) is a federal subject in northwestern Russia. The administrative centre is Murmansk, where most of the population lives. The oblast has a population of 741,511.

[[List of districts in Uttar Pradesh]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Uttar Pradesh

[[Agra division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Agra (آگرہ ڈویژن) is a division of Uttar Pradesh, India.

[[Aligarh division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Uttar Pradesh

Aligarh division is one of the administrative divisions of the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. Aligarh division consists of:-

[[Allahabad district]]

CATEGORIES: Allahabad district

Allahabad District, also called Prayagraj District, is one of the major & largest districts of Uttar Pradesh state of India, and Allahabad city is the district headquarters. Allahabad district is a part of Allahabad Division. Allahabad District is divided into blocks within tehsils. As of 2011, there are 20 blocks in eight tehsils. The Allahabad division includes the districts of Fatehpur, Kaushambi and Allahabad, with the western Allahabad District becoming part of the new Kaushambi district. The administrative divisions are Phulpur, Koraon, Meja, Sadar, Soraon, Handia, Bara and Karchana.

The three rivers of India - Ganges, Yamuna and the mythical river of Sarasvati - meet at a point in the Allahabad District, known as Sangam, considered holy by Hindus. Allahabad was once the capital of United Province before independence. Allahabad is one of the largest educational hub having many major educational institutes such as the Indian Institute Of Information Technology, Moti Lal Nehru National Institute Of Technology, University Of Allahabad, CMP Degree College, Ewing Christian College and Gautam Buddh Technical University affiliated number of Engineering Colleges, MotiLal Nehru Medical College, JK Institute - these provides higher education.

[[Phulpur, Allahabad]]

CATEGORIES: Allahabad district

Phulpur is a town and a nagar near Singra Mau panchayat in Allahabad district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh.  It is the Lok Sabha seat from which Jawaharlal Nehru got elected to the Indian Parliament. Phulpur has given birth to religious idol 'Rameshwaranand Pandey of Singra Mau (Now his idol placed in -Shree Ganesh Mandir)' also gave the first Prime Minister to India. One of the India's agriculture industry called IFFCO is in Phulpur and upcoming Yuva Neta 'Vidyadhar Pandey from Singra Mau'.

[[Moradabad]]

CATEGORIES: Moradabad district, Cities and towns in Uttar Pradesh

Moradabad (Moradabad.ogg) is a city, commissionary, and a municipal corporation in Moradabad district of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It was established in 1625A.D. by Rustam Khan and is named after prince Murad Baksh, the son of the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan.

Moradabad is situated on the banks of the Ramganga river, at a distance of 167 from the national capital, New Delhi and 344 km north-west of the state capital Lucknow. The city is known as Pital Nagri, ("Brass City") for its famous brass handicrafts industry. It is also the divisional headquarters of Northern Railway (NR).

[[Kanth, Moradabad]]

CATEGORIES: Moradabad district

Kanth is a Nagar Palika Parishad in Moradabad district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It is home to small-scale bandage manufacturing industries. These are sold in Uttar Pradesh and in the rest of India under various licenses. Recently manufacturing of ready-made garments has also developed, contributing to the economy of the town.

[[Varanasi cantonment]]

CATEGORIES: Varanasi district

Varanasi cantonment is a census town in Varanasi tehsil of Varanasi district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. The census town does not have a gram panchayat.  Varanasi Cantonment Census town is about 2 kilometers West of Varanasi railway station, 324 kilometers  South-East of Lucknow and 12 kilometers North of Banaras Hindu University.

[[Braj]]

Braj (ब्रज) also known as Brij (बृज) is a region mainly in Uttar Pradesh of India, around Mathura-Vrindavan. Brij, though never a clearly defined political region in India, is very well demarcated culturally. The area stretches from Mathura, Jalesar, Agra, Hathras and Aligarh right up to Etah, Mainpuri and Farrukhabad districts.   It is considered to be the land of Krishna and is derived from the Sanskrit word vraja. The main cities in the region are Mathura, Jalesar, Bharatpur, Agra, Hathras, Dholpur, Aligarh, Etawah, Mainpuri, Etah, Kasganj and Firozabad.

[[Ta'if Regional Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Saudi Arabia

Ta'if Regional Airport TIF is an airport in Ta'if, Saudi Arabia. Despite its name, it also offers many international flights as well. The airport is located 30 km to the east of Taif and 70 km from Mecca.

[[Plymouth Sound]]

CATEGORIES: Bays, Geography of Cornwall

Plymouth Sound is a bay on the English Channel at Plymouth in England.

The Sound has three water entrances. The marine entrance is from the English Channel to the south. There is also the River Tamar and the River Plym.

[[List of districts in Tamil Nadu]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Tamil Nadu

[[List of districts in Andhra Pradesh]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Andhra Pradesh, India-related lists

Andhra Pradesh is one of the 29 states of India. The state has a total of 13 districts,

the Anantapur district is the largest and Srikakulam district is the smallest district. The districts are divided into two regions of the state, i.e., Coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema

[[Anantapur district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Andhra Pradesh

Anantapur district (officially:Anantapuram district) is a district in the Rayalaseema region of Andhra Pradesh, India. The district headquarters is located at Anantapur city. 2011 Census, the district had a population of 4,083,315, of which 28.09% is urban and a literacy rate of 64.28%. It is the largest district in terms of area in Andhra Pradesh and 7th largest district in India respectively.

[[Chittoor district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Andhra Pradesh

Chittoor district (Chittoor.ogg), is a district in Rayalaseema region of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. The district headquarters is located at Chittoor. It has a population of 4,170,468 according to 2011 census of India. Chittoor district has many major temples including Tirupati and Kanipakam and temples. It lies in the Poini river valley of southernmost Andhra Pradesh along the Chennai – Bangalore section Chennai-Mumbai highway. It is a major market centre for mangoes, grains, sugarcane, and peanuts.

[[Kurnool district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Andhra Pradesh

Kurnool District is a district in the state of Andhra Pradesh, India, in the west-central part of the state and is bounded by Mahabubnagar district of Telangana in the north, Raichur district of Karnataka in the northwest, Bellary district of Karnataka in the west, Ananthapur district in the south, YSR Kadapa district in the South East and Prakasham district in the east.

The city of Kurnool is the headquarters of the district. It has a population of 4,053,463 of which 28.35% were urban as of 2011. It occupies 10th and 2nd place in terms of area in Largest Districts of India and Andhra Pradesh respectively, accounting for  17658 and 53rd place in terms of Population in India.

[[List of districts in Kerala]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

300px|right|thumb|Districts of Kerala, south India.The Indian state of Kerala borders with the states of Tamil Nadu on the south and east, Karnataka on the north and the Lakshadweep Sea coastline on the west. The Western Ghats, bordering the eastern boundary of the State, form an almost continuous mountain wall, except near Palakkad where there is a natural mountain pass known as the Palakkad Gap. When the independent India amalgamated small states together Travancore and Cochin states were integrated to form Travancore-Cochin state on 1 July 1949. However, Malabar remained under the Madras province. The States Reorganisation Act of 1 November 1956 elevated Kerala to statehood.

The state of Kerala is divided into 14 revenue districts. On the basis of geography the state's districts are generally grouped into three parts :- The North Kerala districts of Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, Kozhikode ; the Central Kerala districts of Palakkad, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Idukki, Malappuram, Kottayam and the South Kerala districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta. Such a regional division occurred being part of historical Kingdoms of Kochi, Travancore and British Province of Malabar. The Travancore region is again divided into three zones as Northern Travancore (Hill Range) (Idukki and parts of Ernakulam), Central Travancore (Central Range) (Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Kottayam) and Southern Travancore (South Range) (Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam). Almost all of the districts in Kerala have the same name as the important town or city in the district, the exception being Idukki district, Wayanad district& Ernakulam district. The 14 districts are further divided into 75 taluks, and 941 Gram panchayats. Some of the districts and their towns were renamed in 1990 like Thiruvananthapuram (formerly known as Trivandrum), Kollam (Quilon or Venad), Alappuzha (Alleppey),As per GO(P) No.133/90/RD dated 7.2.90, Government of Kerala Thrissur (Trichur or Thirushivaperur), Palakkad (Palghat), Kozhikode (Calicut) and Kannur (Cannanore).

[[List of districts in Maharashtra]]

CATEGORIES: Maharashtra

The Indian State of Maharashtra came into existence on 1 May, 1960. It is also known as Maharashtra Day, It has 36 Districts,as of now.Initially with 26 districts. 10 new districts have been created since then, and currently the number of districts in the state is 36. These districts are grouped into six administrative divisions(Prashaskiy Vibhag) shown below.

[[List of districts in Karnataka]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Karnataka

The Indian State of Karnataka is divided into 30 districts and 4 administrative divisions. The state is geographically consisted of 4 principal regions: the coastal region of Karavali, the hilly Malenadu region comprising the Western Ghats, Are Malnadu region of Kolar, Bengaluru and Tumakuru and the Bayaluseeme region comprising the plains of the Deccan plateau.

[[List of districts in Telangana]]

CATEGORIES: Telangana

The state of Telangana, in southern India is divided into 31 districts. A 'district' in the state of Telangana is an administrative geographical unit, headed by a District collector, an officer belonging to the Indian Administrative Service.

[[List of districts in Puducherry]]

CATEGORIES: Puducherry

Puducherry is a union territory of India. It has four administrative divisions: four districts, viz. Pondicherry, Mahé, Yanam and Karaikal. Pondicherry district has the largest area and population. Mahé district has the smallest area and population. All the four districts retained borders of the French India, and were organised as a union territory of Puducherry after the de facto transfer of French India territories to India in 1954.

[[List of districts in Goa]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Goa

The Indian state  Goa is divided into 2 districts: North Goa and South Goa.

[[List of districts in Chhattisgarh]]

CATEGORIES: Chhattisgarh

Chhattisgarh, a state of India, has 28 administrative districts.

At the time of separation from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh originally had 16 districts. Two new districts: Bijapur and Narayanpur were carved out on May 11, 2007 and nine new districts on Jan 1, 2012. The new districts have been created by carving out the existing districts to facilitate more targeted, focused and closer administration. These districts have been named Sukma, Kondagaon, Balod, Bemetara, Baloda Bazar, Gariaband, Mungeli, Surajpur and Balrampur.A new District Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi came into existence on 10 February 2020 as the 28th district

[[List of districts in Odisha]]

CATEGORIES: Odisha

Odisha, a state on the eastern coast of India, is divided into 30 administrative geographical units called districts.

[[Vampire tap]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware

A vampire tap is a connection to a coaxial cable in which a hole is drilled through the outer shield of the cable so that a clamp can be connected to the inner conductor of the cable. A vampire tap is used to connect each device to Thick net coaxial cable in the bus topology of an Ethernet 10BASE-T local area network.

[[Doudeauville]]

Doudeauville can mean:

[[Drocourt]]

Drocourt is the name of two communes in France:

[[Longueville]]

Longueville can mean:

[[Longvilliers]]

Longvilliers is the name of two communes in France:

[[Boncourt]]

Boncourt can mean:

[[Jettingen, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Jettingen is a French commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department in eastern France. In 2014, 506 people lived there.

[[Jungholtz]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Jungholtz is a commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department in eastern France.

[[Brian Barder]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, British politicians, British writers, People from Bristol, Ambassadors of the United Kingdom

Sir Brian Leon Barder, KCMG (20 June 1934 – 19 September 2017) was a British diplomat, author, blogger and civil liberties advocate. He was born in Bristol, England. 

Barder was British Ambassador to Ethiopia (1982–86); Ambassador to Poland (1986–88); High Commissioner to Nigeria and concurrently Ambassador to Bénin (1988–91) and High Commissioner to Australia (1991–94).

He was awarded the KCMG in 1992.

[[Elizabeth D. Phillips]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Cancer deaths in Florida, American educators, People from Rochester, New York

Elizabeth D. "Betty" Phillips (née Capaldi; c. 1945 – September 23, 2017) was an American educator and administrator. She was born in Rochester, New York. She was the Director of University of Florida Online.  She resigned abruptly after serving only three months in that position, without explanation. She previously served as provost and executive vice president of Arizona State University (2006-2013) and provost of the University of Florida (1996-1999), among other administrative positions.

Phillips died in Gainesville, Florida from brain cancer on September 23, 2017 at the age of 72.

[[Valery Asapov]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths by firearm, Assassinations, Russian military people

Valery Grigorievich Asapov (Валерий Григорьевич Асапов; 1 January 1966 – 23 September 2017) was a Russian lieutenant general in the Russian military. Asapov has been described as one of the senior Russian military advisers in Syria. Asapov, then commander of an army motorised rifle brigade, was awarded the 4th Class of the Order "For Merit to the Fatherland" by President Vladimir Putin on 23 February 2013.

Asapov was killed by mortar fire from ISIL militants near the city of Deir ez-Zor during the Syrian Civil War, according to the Russian Defence Ministry. He was 51 years old.

[[Washington Benavides]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Uruguayan writers, Poets, Musicians, Uruguayan educators

Washington Benavides (March 3, 1930 – September 24, 2017) was a Uruguayan poet and musician. He was born in Tacuarembó, Uruguay. During the 1950s he collaborated on the review Asir. In 1955 he published his first book, Tata Vizcacha. enavides taught literature at the secondary level. He later joined the Faculty of Humanities and Educational Sciences in the Department of Modern and Contemporary Letters of the University of the Republic, Uruguay.

Benavides died of complications from pneumonia in Montevideo, Uruguay on September 24, 2017 at the age of 87.

[[Joseph M. McDade]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Virginia, United States representatives from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians, People from Scranton, Pennsylvania

Joseph Michael "Joe" McDade (September 29, 1931 – September 24, 2017) was a an American politician. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives, having represented Pennsylvania's 10th congressional district from 1963 through 1999 as a Republican.

McDade died on September 24, 2017 in Fairfax, Virginia of heart failure at the age of 85.

[[Eman Ahmed Abd El Aty]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from renal failure, People from Alexandria

Eman Ahmed Abd El Aty (9 September 1980 – 25 September 2017) was an Egyptian woman who was thought to be the heaviest living woman in the world and the second heaviest woman in history (after Carol Yager). Her initial weight was claimed to be around 500 kg (1100lb).  She was born in Alexandria, Egypt. Her family has stated that she weighed 5kg (11 pounds) at birth. Suffering from a thyroid problem, she had to stop school.

In May 2017, she was hospitalized and taken to India for health problems due to her weight. She was later transferred to the United Arab Emirates for further treatment. She lost around 715 pounds during her hospital stay.

Abd El Aty died on September 25, 2017 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates from septic shock caused by kidney failure. She was 37 years old.

[[Anatoly Gromyko]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Ambassadors of the Soviet Union, Russian politicians, Russian scientists

Anatoly Andreyevich Gromyko (Анато́лий Андре́евич Громы́ко, 15 April 1932 – 25 September 2017) was a Soviet and Russian scientist and diplomat. He was born in Barysaw, Soviet Union. He specialized in American and African studies as well as international relations. He was a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and the Union of Russian Artists.

Between 1961 and 1965 worked at the Soviet Embassy to the United Kingdom. After that he took leading positions at the Institute for African Studies and Institute for US and Canadian Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences. He then returned to diplomacy and acted as the Soviet deputy ambassador in the United States (1973–74) and East Germany (1974–75).

[[Bobby Knutt]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in France, British television actors, British comedians, Actors from Yorkshire, People from Sheffield

Robert Andrew Wass, known professionally as Bobby Knutt (25 November 1945 – 25 September 2017), was a British television actor and comedian, He started in entertainment as a stand-up comedian. He was best known for playing Albert Dingle in Emmerdale.

Knutt also appeared in Last of the Summer Wine, Heartbeat, Hetty Wainthropp Investigates, All Creatures Great & Small, Our Friends in the North, and Coronation Street as garage boss Ron Sykes.

Knutt died suddenly of a heart attack in France on 25 September 2017 at the age of 71.

[[Jan Tříska]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Czech movie actors, Czech television actors, People from Prague

Jan Triska or Jan Tříska (ˈjan ˈtr̝̊iːska; 4 November 1936 – 25 September 2017) was a Czech actor. He was most notable for portraying Captain Henry Wirz in the American television movie Andersonville and as Milos in The Karate Kid Part III. 

Tříska also played the assassin in Miloš Forman's The People vs. Larry Flynt, and appeared in Highlander: The Series (season 5, episode 10), Highlander: The Raven, Blizzard, The Osterman Weekend, Ronin, Apt Pupil (as Isaac Weiskopf), and Peter Hyams' 2010: The Year We Make Contact.

Tříska fell off the Charles Bridge in Prague on 23 September 2017 for unknown reasons. He was taken to the hospital and later died on 25 September at the age of 80. 

[[Bo Goldman]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning writers, Academy Award winners, 1932 births, Living people, American playwrights, Screenwriters from New York City

Robert "Bo" Goldman (born September 10, 1932) is an American writer, Broadway playwright and screenwriter. He has received two Academy Awards out of three nominations. He was born in New York City. He is known for writing the screenplay of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. For his work on the movie Goldman also received the Writers Guild Award and the Golden Globe Award.

[[List of districts in Madhya Pradesh]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Madhya Pradesh

The Indian state Madhya Pradesh has 55 districts grouped into ten divisions.

[[List of districts in Gujarat]]

CATEGORIES: Gujarat

The western Indian state of Gujarat has 33 districts after several splits of the original 17 districts at the formation of the state in 1960.

Kutch is the largest district of Gujarat while Dang is the smallest. Ahmedabad district has the highest population while Dang has the lowest. Surat is the most densely populated district while Kutch is the least.

There are 253 Talukas (subdivisions of districts) in Gujarat. 

[[List of districts in Rajasthan]]

CATEGORIES: Rajasthan

The Indian state of Rajasthan is divided into 33 districts for administrative purposes. The responsibilities of district management are carried out by All-India officials and state-appointed officials. The All-India officials in each district are a Deputy Commissioner or district Magistrate (from the Indian Administrative Service), a Superintendent of Police (from the Indian Police Service) and a Deputy Conservator of Forests (from the Indian Forest Service), each of which is assisted by officers of various Rajasthan state services. The state-appointed officials are responsible for matters such as health, education, and agriculture in each district. The 33 districts are grouped into seven divisions:

[[List of districts in Haryana]]

CATEGORIES: Haryana

Haryana, with 22 districts, is  a state in the northern region of India and is the nation's seventeenth most populous. The state borders with Punjab and Himachal Pradesh to the north and Rajasthan to the west and south. The river Yamuna defines its eastern border with Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Haryana also surrounds Delhi on three sides, forming the northern, western and southern borders of Delhi. Consequently, a large area of Haryana is included in the National Capital Region.

[[List of districts in Bihar]]

CATEGORIES: Bihar

Bihar, a state of India, has currently thirty-eight administrative districts.

A district of an Indian state is an administrative geographical unit, headed by a district magistrate or a deputy commissioner, an officer belonging to the Indian Administrative Service. The district magistrate or the deputy commissioner is assisted by a number of officials belonging to different wings of the administrative services of the state.

A superintendent of Police, an officer belonging to Indian Police Service is entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining law and order and related issues.

3 to 5 districts comprise to form a division(प्रमंडल). Each district is divided into  Sub-division(अनुमंडल), which are further sub-divided into C.D. Block(प्रखण्ड)

[[List of districts in Jharkhand]]

CATEGORIES: Jharkhand

Jharkhand, a state of India, has twenty-four administrative districts.

[[List of districts in West Bengal]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of West Bengal

The Himalayas lies in the north of the state and the Bay of Bengal is at the south. In between them, the river Ganga flows eastwards and its main distributary, the Hooghly River, flows south to reach the Bay of Bengal. The Siliguri Corridor, which connects North-East India with rest of the India, lies in the North Bengal region of the state. Geographically, West Bengal is divided into a variety of regions—Darjeeling Himalayan hill region, Terai and Dooars region, North Bengal plains, Rarh region, Western plateau and high lands, coastal plains, Sunderbans and the Ganga Delta.

In 1947, when India gained independence, the state of West Bengal was formed with 14 districts, as per partition plan of the then Bengal province of British India. The former princely state Koch Bihar joined as a district in 1950, and the former French enclave Chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954. The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to addition of Purulia district to the state and to enlargement of West Dinajpur district. Later, larger districts such as West Dinajpur, 24 Parganas and Midnapore were bifurcated. Till 24 June 2014 West Bengal was divided into 19 districts.

West Bengal is now divided into 23 districts which includes the newly formed Jhargram district, Alipurduar district and the Kalimpong district, Paschim Bardhaman district under five  divisions  and divisions are administered by Divisional Commissioners. Kolkata, the capital of the state, constitutes the Kolkata district. Other districts are further divided into administrative units such as subdivisions and blocks, administered by SDO and BDO, respectively. The Panchayati Raj has a three-tier structure in the state. The atomic unit is called a Gram Panchayat, which is the Panchayat organisation for a collection of villages. The block-level organisations are called Panchayat Samiti, and the district-level organisations are named Zilla Parishad.

[[List of districts in Punjab, India]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab, India

A district of the Punjab state of India is an administrative geographical unit, headed by a deputy commissioner or district magistrate, an officer belonging to the Indian Administrative Service. The district magistrate or the deputy commissioner is assisted by a number of officers belonging to Punjab Civil Service and other state services. As of May 18, 2021, there are 23 districts in Punjab, when the 23rd district of Malerkotla was formed.

[[List of districts in Uttarakhand]]

CATEGORIES: Uttarakhand

A district of Uttarakhand state is an administrative geographical unit, headed by a Deputy Commissioner (earlier called District Collector) or District Magistrate, an officer belonging to the Indian Administrative Service. The deputy commissioner and the district magistrate are assisted by a number of officers (such as deputy collector, assistant collector, assistant district magistrate, tehsildar, deputy (naib) tehsildar) belonging to Uttarakhand Civil Service and other Uttarakhand state services.

A Superintendent of Police, an officer belonging to the Indian Police Service, heads the police in the district and is entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining law and order and related issues. He is assisted by the officers of the Uttarakhand Police Service.

A Deputy Conservator of Forests, an officer belonging to the Indian Forest Service is responsible for managing the Forests, environment and wild-life related issues of the district. He is assisted by the officers of the Uttarakhand Forest Service and other Uttarakhand Forest officials and Uttarakhand Wild-Life officials.

Sectoral development is looked after by the district head of each development department such as PWD, Health, Education, Agriculture, Animal husbandry, etc. These officers belong to the various State Services.

Four new districts are proposed in Uttarakhand: Ranikhet, Didihat, Kotdwar and Yamunotri.

[[List of districts in Himachal Pradesh]]

CATEGORIES: Himachal Pradesh

A district of Himachal Pradesh is an administrative geographical unit, the Revenue department of which is headed by a Deputy Commissioner or District Magistrate, an officer belonging to the Indian Administrative Service. The district magistrate or the deputy commissioner is assisted by a number of officers belonging to Himachal Administrative Service and other Himachal state services.

A District Judge serves as the head of the Judiciary of the district. Courts subordinate to him include those of the Civil Judges, Senior Civil Judges, and Judicial Magistrates.

A Superintendent of Police, an officer belonging to the Indian Police Service is entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining law and order and related issues of the district. He is assisted by the officers of the Himachal Police Service and other Himachal Police officials.

A Deputy Conservator of Forests, an officer belonging to the Indian Forest Service is responsible for managing the Forests, environment and wild-life related issues of the district. He is assisted by the officers of the Himachal Forest Service and other Himachal Forest officials and Himachal Wild-Life officials.

Sectoral development is looked after by the district head of each development department such as PWD, Health, Education, Agriculture, Animal husbandry, etc. These officers belong to the various State Services.

[[List of districts in Sikkim]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sikkim

rect 242 167 304 241 North Sikkim

rect 310 410 361 475 East Sikkim

rect 189 413 232 479 South Sikkim

rect 84 383 132 456 West Sikkim

desc bottom-left

There are 4 districts in Sikkim, an Indian state, each overseen by a Central Government appointee, the district collector, who is in charge of the administration of the civilian areas of the districts. The Indian army has control of a large territory, as the state is a sensitive border area. Many areas are restricted and permits are needed to visit them. There are a total of eight towns and nine subdivisions in Sikkim.

The four districts are:

[[List of districts in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands

Presently, the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands comprises 3 districts:

[[List of districts in Daman and Diu]]

CATEGORIES: Daman and Diu

The Union territory of Daman and Diu, India consists of two districts.

Until 1961 this Union territory was part of the Portuguese India.

[[Diu district]]

CATEGORIES: Daman and Diu

Diu district (Distrito de Diu) is one of the two districts of the union territory of Daman and Diu of India. It is the ninth least populous district in the country (out of 640).

[[List of districts in Delhi]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Delhi

Delhi is divided into eleven revenue districts. Each district is headed by a District Magistrate and has three subdivisions. A Subdivision Magistrate heads each subdivision.

The initial nine districts came into existence from January 1997. Prior to that, there used to be only one district for whole of Delhi with district headquarters at Tis-Hazari. In September 2012, two new districts, viz. South East and Shahdara were added to the city's map, taking the total count to 11.

The District Administration of Delhi is the enforcement department for all kinds of Government of Delhi and Central Government policies and exercises supervisory over numerous other functionaries of the Government. Below is the list of the districts and subdivisions of Delhi:

[[List of districts in Arunachal Pradesh]]

CATEGORIES: Arunachal Pradesh

On December 1, 1965 the erstwhile North-East Frontier Agency was divided into five districts:

[[List of districts in Manipur]]

CATEGORIES: Manipur

Manipur, a state of India, has sixteen administrative districts.

[[List of districts in Assam]]

CATEGORIES: Assam

Assam, a northeastern state of India, is divided into 33 administrative geographical units called districts.

[[List of districts in Meghalaya]]

CATEGORIES: Meghalaya

The Indian state of Meghalaya is divided into 11 districts.

[[List of districts in Mizoram]]

CATEGORIES: Mizoram

The Indian state of Mizoram is divided into 8 districts.

[[List of districts in Tripura]]

CATEGORIES: Tripura

The Indian state of Tripura borders with Bangladesh and the Indian states of Assam & Mizoram. The third smallest state in India and also a princely state till 1949, It covers an area of 10,491 km2 (4,051 sq mi).The area of modern Tripura was ruled for several centuries by the Tripuri dynasty. It was a princely state during British rule, and joined the newly independent India.Ethnic strife between the indigenous people and Bengali population led to tension and scattered violence since its integration into the country, but the establishment of an autonomous tribal administrative agency and other strategies have led to peace. Tripura was divided into 4 districts but with effect from 21 January 2012 four more new districts was divided making a total of 8 districts in the state.

[[Prediction interval]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

In statistics (particularly in predictive inference), a prediction interval, or PI for short, is an interval estimate in which future observations will fall, with a certain probability, given what has already been observed. Prediction intervals are often used in regression analysis and forecasting.

[[Mangani Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Karaikal District

Managani festival is a world renowned festival celebrated in Karaikal city. It is celebrated in the memory Lord Bikshantar who will be provided food by Karaikal Ammaiyar, that is Amuthu Padayal in Tamil.

[[List of districts in Nagaland]]

CATEGORIES: Nagaland

Nagaland, a state of India, has 12 administrative districts.

[[Annals of Mathematics]]

CATEGORIES: Journals, Mathematics journals

The Annals of Mathematics is a mathematical journal published by Princeton University and the Institute for Advanced Study. It is published every two months.

[[Joe the Plumber]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American journalists, American political commentators, American political activists, People from Toledo, Ohio, Plumbers, Republicans (United States)

Joe the Plumber, nickname of Samuel Joseph "Joe" Wurzelbacher, (born December 3, 1973 in Toledo, Ohio) is an American commentator, motivational speaker and political activist. He has conservative views and is a Republican.

He became well-known during the United States presidential election, 2008 when he asked Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama in Ohio about his ideas about taxation of small business. Obama reacted by saying that wealth should be spread among the people, which answer the Republicans categorized as being socialist.

Wurzelbacher was intending to start a plumbing business and therefore got the nickname "Joe the Plumber". He became a middle class stereotype in the campaign of the Republican presidential candidate John McCain.

"Joe the Plumber" became a hit in the 2008 presidential elections, often referred to both by McCain and Obama, and being interviewed about all sorts of topics.

In 2012 he tried in vain to be chosen in the United States House of Representatives on behalf of the Ohio's 9th congressional district.

The same year he came with his own news site called JoeForAmerica.com.

Two years after that he started working in a Jeep factory.

[[Nagercoil]]

CATEGORIES: Kanyakumari district

Nagercoil ("Temple of the Nāgas") is a town in the southernmost Indian state of Tamil Nadu and a municipality and administrative headquarters of Kanyakumari District. The city is situated close to the tip of the Indian peninsula, locked with the Western Ghats on all sides. It was briefly part of the erstwhile Travancore state, till almost a decade after India's Independence from Britain in 1947. In 1956, it was merged with Tamil Nadu. In its earlier days, the town and its surroundings were known as Nanjilnadu. Nagercoil holds a number of educational institutions, hospitals, offices and industries. It is also the hub of industrial and commercial activity in the district, and a fertile agricultural area that produces paddy. The minerals ilmenite and monazite are mined there. The land is surrounded by hills and lush green paddy fields. It is also known for different varieties of bananas. Nagercoil is a land of great traditional and cultural significance.

According to 2011 census, Nagercoil had a population of 224,849 with a sex-ratio of 1,050 females for every 1,000 males, much above the national average of 929. A total of 20,241 were under the age of six, constituting 10,119 males and 10,122 females. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes accounted for 4.19% and .17% of the population respectively. The average literacy of the city was 95.35%. The city had a total of 59,997 households. There were a total of 76,345 workers, comprising 244 cultivators, 1,155 main agricultural laborers, 2,271 in household industries, 67,050 other workers, 5,625 marginal workers, 110 marginal cultivators, 361 marginal agricultural laborers, 447 marginal workers in household industries and 4,707 other marginal workers.

As per the religious census of 2011, Nagercoil had 61.06% Hindus, 8.89% Muslims, 29.94% Christians, 0.01% Sikhs, 0.02% Buddhists, 0.02% Jains and 0.06% following other religions or not stating their position.

The largest concentration of the population of the town and the District is along the coastal belt, on the eastern side, while the largely forested areas on the western side of the district (along the Western Ghats) are sparsely populated.May 2016

[[Ramanathapuram]]

CATEGORIES: Ramanathapuram District

Ramanathapuram (Ramanathapuram.ogg), also known as Ramnad, is a city and a municipality in Ramanathapuram district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is the administrative headquarters of Ramanathapuram district and the second largest town (by population) in Ramanathapuram district. 2011 census, the town had a population of 61,440.Density of population: 320 people per square kilometer; Literacy Rate: 81.48% - Male: 87.89%, Female: 74.93%; Male Female Ratio: 1000:977.Ramanathapuram is the top producer of chilli pepper in Tamil Nadu. It is connected to other cities by NH-49.

[[Sivaganga]]

CATEGORIES: Sivaganga District

Sivaganga is the headquarters of the Sivaganga district in the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is also the headquarters of the Sivaganga taluk. The town is located at a distance of 48 from Madurai and 449 from the state capital Chennai.It is the important city in this district for official and commercial purpose.

Sivagangai kingdom was founded by Sasivarna Periya Oodaya Thevar in 1730. The town was subsequently ruled by his successors and ultimately by Velu Nachiyar under the stewardship of Maruthu Pandiyar. They were against the British Empire, but ultimately lost to them in 1790. The Company appointed Gowry Vallaba Periya Oodaya Thevar as the Zamindar of Sivaganga in 1801, whose successors continued with chaos until India's independence in 1947. It was under Ramnad district until 1984 and subsequently a part of the newly formed Sivaganga district. The town is known for agriculture, metal working and weaving. The region around Sivaganga has considerable mineral deposits.

Sivaganga is administered by a municipality established in 1965. As of 2011, the municipality covered an area of 6.97 and had a population of 40,403. Sivagangai comes under the Sivaganga assembly constituency which elects a member to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly once every five years and it is a part of the Sivaganga constituency which elects its Member of Parliament (MP) once in five years. Roadways are the major mode of transportation to the town and it also has rail connectivity. The nearest seaport, Thoothukudi Port, is located 189 from Sivaganga, while the nearest airport, Madurai International Airport, is located 53 from the town.

[[Sivakasi taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Virudhunagar District

Sivakasi taluk is a taluk of Virudhunagar district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Sivakasi.

[[Srivilliputhur taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Virudhunagar District

Srivilliputhur taluk is a taluk of Virudhunagar district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Srivilliputhur.

[[Srivilliputhur]]

CATEGORIES: Virudhunagar District

Srivilliputhur is a town and a municipality in Virudhunagar district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. As of 2011, the town had a population of 75,396.

The most important landmark of Srivilliputhur is 11-tiered tower structure dedicated to the Lord of Srivilliputhur, known as Vatapatrasayee. The tower of this temple rises 192 feet high and is the official symbol of the Government of Tamil Nadu.  It is said to have been built by Periyalvar, believed to be the father-in-law of the Temple Deity, with a purse of gold that he won in debates held in the palace of Pandya King Vallabhadeva. Srivilliputhur is well known for its ancient heritage and devotional contributions.

It is on the Virudhunagar - Shenkottai line of the Southern Railway, about 74 km south of Madurai and connected by road and rail with Madurai, Sivakasi, Sankarankovil & Shenkottai, Thirunelveli and Sattur.

[[Virudhunagar taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Virudhunagar District

Virudhunagar taluk is a taluk of Virudhunagar district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Virudhunagar.

[[Dunc Fisher]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, New York Rangers players, Boston Bruins players, Detroit Red Wings players, Sportspeople from Saskatchewan, People from Regina, Saskatchewan, American Hockey League players

Duncan Robert Fisher (August 30, 1927 – September 22, 2017) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He was born in Regina, Saskatchewan. He played 275 games in the National Hockey League from 1947 to 1953 and again in 1958 to 1959.  He played for the New York Rangers, Boston Bruins, and Detroit Red Wings.

Fisher died in Regina on September 22, 2017 at the age of 90.

[[M. Cherif Bassiouni]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from multiple myeloma, Cancer deaths in Chicago, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American lawyers, American educators, American human rights activists, People from Cairo

Mahmoud Cherif Bassiouni (1937 – 25 September 2017) was an Egyptian-born American Emeritus Professor of Law at DePaul University where he taught from 1964-2012. He was born in Cairo, Egypt.

Bassiouni has served in numerous United Nations positions and served as the Consultant to the US Department of State and Justice on many projects. He was a founding member of the International Human Rights Law Institute at DePaul University which was established in 1990. He served as President from 1990-1997 and then President Emeritus. 

In 1999, Bassiouni was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize for his work in the field of international criminal justice and for his contribution to the creation of the International Criminal Court. He did not win as Médecins Sans Frontières received the award in 1999.

Bassiouni died of multiple myeloma in Chicago, Illinois on 25 September 2017 at the age of 79.

[[Nora Marks Dauenhauer]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, American poets, American novelists, American educators, Writers from Alaska, People from Juneau, Alaska

Nora Marks Dauenhauer (May 8, 1927 – September 25, 2017) was an American Tlingit poet, short-story writer, and Tlingit language scholar from Alaska. She won an American Book Award for Russians in Tlingit America: The Battles of Sitka, 1802 And 1804. She was born in Yakutat, Alaska.

Dauenhauer died at her home in Juneau, Alaska on September 25, 2017 at the age of 90.

[[Lie to Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 American television series debuts, 2011 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Lie to Me is a series on FOX from 2009 to 2011.

[[Květa Fialová]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Czech movie actors, Czech television actors

Květa Fialová (1 September 1929 – 26 September 2017) was a Czech actress. She was best known for her performance in Lemonade Joe. She was born in Veľké Dravce, Czechoslovakia. She also appeared in Dinner for Adele (1977) and I Enjoy the World With You (1982).

Fialová died in Prague, Czech Republic on 26 September 2017 at the age of 88.

[[Barry Dennen]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American video game actors, American television writers, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT singers, LGBT writers, LGBT people from Chicago, Actors from Chicago, Singers from Chicago, Screenwriters from Chicago

Barry Dennen (February 22, 1938 – September 26, 2017) was an American actor, singer, and screen and television writer.  He played Pontius Pilate on the original recording, and later in the movie, of Jesus Christ Superstar. He also had roles in The Shining (1980) and in Titanic (1997). He was born in Chicago, Illinois. 

Dennen was a closeted homosexual until his later years. He died in Burbank, California on September 26, 2017 from complications of a fall at the age of 79.

[[Francis Collins]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American physicians, American geneticists, American Christians, American political writers, Writers from Virginia, Politicians from Virginia

Francis Sellers Collins (born April 14, 1950) is an American physician-geneticist. He is known for his discoveries of disease genes and his leadership of the Human Genome Project. He is director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in Bethesda, Maryland since 2009.

Before being appointed director of the NIH, Collins led the Human Genome Project and other genomics research initiatives as director of the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), one of the 27 institutes and centers at NIH. 

Before joining NHGRI, he earned a reputation as a gene hunter at the University of Michigan. He has been elected to the Institute of Medicine and the National Academy of Sciences, and has received the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the National Medal of Science.

[[Muhammad Khwaja]]

CATEGORIES: Hazara tribes, Hazara people

The Hazāra of Muḥammad Khwāja (Dari: هزاره محمد خواجه) is a Hazara tribe of Ghazni Province of Afghanistan.

The Hazaras of Muḥammad Khwaja is a member of the Barlas tribal, in the past they lived around the geography of Uzbekistan, Iran and India. The main origin of this people is Samarkand city today in Uzbekistan.

[[Helga Grebing]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Germany, Deaths from congestive heart failure, German academics, German historians, Scientists from Berlin, Writers from Berlin

Helga Grebing (27 February 1930 – 25 September 2017) was a German historian and university professor (Göttingen, Bochum). She was born in Berlin, Germany.  

A focus of her work is on social history and, more specifically, on the history of the labour movement. 

Grebing died in Berlin on 25 September 2017 of congestive heart failure at the age of 87.

[[Roy Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American lawyers, American judges, Politicians from Alabama, US Republican Party politicians

Roy Stewart Moore (born February 11, 1947) is an American lawyer, politician, and former judge.

Moore has earned significant national attention and controversy over his strongly anti-homosexual, anti-Muslim, and far-right views, his belief that Christianity should order public policy, as well as his past ties to neo-Confederates and white nationalist groups.

[[Ralph Northam]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American physicians, American military people, Lieutenant Governors of Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians

Ralph Shearer Northam (born September 13, 1959) is the 73rd and current Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Before he became governor, Northam was a doctor, U.S. Army veteran and former Virginia senator.

A Democrat, Northam previously served the Lieutenant Governor of Virginia from January 11, 2014 until January 13, 2018, during Governor Terry McAuliffe's term in office. His term ended when he became Governor and he was succeeded in his position by Democrat Justin Fairfax.

Northam was the Democratic nominee for Governor of Virginia in the 2017 election, facing Republican Ed Gillespie and winning the election.

[[Robert Delpire]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, French artists, French movie producers, French journalists, Writers from Paris

Robert Delpire (24 January 1926 – 26 September 2017) was a French art publisher, editor, curator, movie producer and graphic designer. He was born in Paris. 

Delpire predominantly concerned himself with documentary photography, influenced by his interest in anthropology. Delpire was editor-in-chief of the cultural review Neuf. He published books of photography, illustration and graphic art through Éditions Delpire and Photo Poche. Photo Poche has been described as "the most successful series of photography monographs ever published", books that "have introduced successive generations to photography".

Delpire died in Paris on 26 September 2017 in Paris at the age of 91.

[[Young Dolph]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, American rap musicians from Illinois, American hip hop musicians, American crime victims, Musicians from Chicago, Musicians from Memphis, Tennessee

Adolph "Dolph" Thornton, Jr. (born August 11, 1985), better known by his stage name Young Dolph, is an American rapper. 

In February 2016, Dolph released his debut studio album, King of Memphis, which peaked at number 49 on the Billboard 200 chart. He was featured on O.T. Genasis' hit single "Cut It", which peaked at number 35 on the Billboard Hot 100.

Young Dolph was shot multiple times outside of a local retail store in Los Angeles on September 26, 2017. He received multiple gunshots wounds which upon being hospitalized were being treated as non-life threatening. A few hours later, Young Dolph was being treated under critical condition.

[[Bhad Bhabie]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 births, American rap musicians from Florida, American socialites, Internet celebrities, Living people, Musicians from Florida

Danielle Bregoli (born March 26, 2003, also known as Bhad Bhabie) is an American social media personality and rapper. She became known for the viral video meme and catch phrase "Cash Me Ousside How Bout Dah" after appearing on the Dr. Phil show in September 2016. She appeared on the show for bad behavior. She released her debut single as a recording artist in late August 2017.

Bregoli released her first single "These Heaux" (pronounced "these hoes") on August 26, 2017. The recording reached number 77 on the Billboard Hot 100, making Bregoli the youngest female rap artist to debut on the music chart. On September 22, 2017, she released "Hi Bich" and a day after, "Whachu Know", as a single alongside the music video, which received over a million views in 24 hours.

Bregoli often shocks her fans with her real age and is rarely seen without makeup. 

[[Receiver]]

CATEGORIES: Communication

In communication a receiver is used for the reception of message or data signals.

A receiver can be of any type such as rhombic,yagiuda, parabolic etc.

It is a device that is designed to receive the signals which are in the form of both electric and electromagnetic form.

Receiver is simply a transducer that is a energy converter which converts received electromagnetic signals into electrical signals.

[[Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce & Industries]]

CATEGORIES: Economy of Bangladesh

The Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FBCCI; বাংলাদেশ শিল্প ও বণিক সমিতি) is a group for businesspeople in Bangladesh.

[[Run-length encoding]]

CATEGORIES: Algorithms

Run-length encoding (RLE) is a very simple form of lossless data compression. In RLE runs of data (that is, sequences in which the same data value occurs in many consecutive data elements) are stored as a single data value and count, rather than as the original run.

[[Hilde Benjamin]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1989 deaths, German judges, German lawyers, German people of World War II, Government ministers of East Germany, Holocaust survivors, Jewish German academics, Jewish German politicians, Jewish judges, Jewish lawyers, Jewish women politicians, Members of the Volkskammer, Politicians from Saxony-Anhalt, Politicians of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany, Women judges

Hilde Benjamin (born Hilde Lange, February 5, 1902 in Bernburg - April 18, 1989 in East Berlin) was an East German judge and justice minister. She was a member of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED).

[[Niederdorf, Basel-Landschaft]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Landschaft

Niederdorf is a municipality of the district of Waldenburg in the canton of Basel-Landschaft in Switzerland.

[[Lausen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Landschaft

Lausen is a municipality of the district of Liestal in the canton of Basel-Landschaft in Switzerland.

[[Arisdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Landschaft

Arisdorf (Swiss German: Aschdrf) a municipality of the district Liestal in the canton of Basel-Landschaft in Switzerland.

[[Uzbek people]]

CATEGORIES: Turkic peoples

Uzbeks are a Turkic-speaking ethnic group who mainly live in Central Asia countries. Uzbeks are the majority of people living in Uzbekistan. They are a minority group in Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Russia and China. A few live farther away. Uzbeks speak Uzbek language of the Turkic language family.

[[Moghol people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Afghanistan, Mongol peoples

The Moghols are a Mongolic ethnic group, descendants of the Mongol Empire's soldiers in Afghanistan. They live in the Herat province of Afghanistan. and they speak the Moghol language of the Mongolic languages.

[[Lü]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Lü is a village and former municipality of the district Inn in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. In 2009 Lü merged into the municipality of Val Müstair.

In 2007, 65 people lived there.

[[Kappelen, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Kappelen is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

It is about 15 km northwest of Basel and 15 km east of Altkirch.

In 2006, 522 people lived there.

[[Katzenthal]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Katzenthal is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Kaysersberg]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 disestablishments in France

Kaysersberg is a former commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Kaysersberg-Vignoble.

[[Moghol language]]

CATEGORIES: Mongolic languages

Moghol language or Mogholi, is a Mongolic language spoken by the Moghol people in Herat province of Afghanistan.

[[Blue Hawaiian (cocktail)]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink

A Blue Hawaiian is an alcoholic cocktail made from pineapple juice, rum and Curaçao, with coconut cream and crushed ice.  The name "Blue Hawaiian" comes from the blue colour given to the drink by Curaçao, an orange flavoured liqueur.

[[North Canton, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

North Canton is a city in Stark County, Ohio, United States. The population was 17,488 at the 2010 census.

[[Carlos Vidal Layseca]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiovascular disease, Peruvian politicians, Physicians, People from Lima

Carlos Alberto Vidal Layseca (4 February 1931 – 24 September 2017) was a Peruvian physician and politician. He was born in Lima, Peru. Layseca served as Minister of Health from July 1990 through February 1991 under the Alberto Fujimori administration. He later served as Rector of Cayetano Heredia University from 1994 through 1999.

Vidal Layseca died of heart disease on 24 September 2017 in Lima at the age of 86.

[[Hiromi Hayakawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver failure, Deaths in childbirth, Japanese movie actors, Japanese television actors, Japanese voice actors, Singers from Fukuoka Prefecture, Mexican singers, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors, Actors from Mexico City, Actors from Fukuoka Prefecture

Marla Hiromi Hayakawa Salas (October 19, 1982 – September 27, 2017), known professionally as Hiromi Hayakawa, was a Mexican actress and singer. She was born in Fukuoka, Japan. She began her music career as a contestant in the reality show La Academia. Her last well known role was as El Chema as Lucy Li, an Asian-Mexican prostitute.

Hayakawa worked mostly in musical theatre, however she has had occasional television roles. Hayakawa was also a voice actress, whose work is primarily on the Spanish American dub of movies and series from the United States. She was best known for dubbing the Spanish version of Disney movies such as Alice in Wonderland, Prom, and in Brave.

Hayakawa died from complications of childbirth as her liver failed at a hospital in Mexico City on September 27, 2017 at the age of 34.

[[Udayarpalayam taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Ariyalur district

Udayarpalayam taluk is a taluk of Ariyalur district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Jayankondam.

[[Sendurai taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Ariyalur district

Sendurai taluk is a taluk of Ariyalur district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Sendurai.

[[Tondiarpet taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Tondiarpet taluk is a taluk of the city district of Chennai in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It was formed in December 2013 from parts of the erstwhile Fort-Tondiarpet taluk. It comprises the neighbourhood of Tondiarpet.

[[Perambur taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Perambur taluk is a taluk of the city district of Chennai in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It was formed in December 2013 from parts of the erstwhile Fort-Tondiarpet and Perambur-Purasawalkam taluks. It comprises the neighbourhoods of Kodungaiyur, Moolakadai and Perambur.

[[Ayanavaram taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Ayanavaram taluk is a taluk of the city district of Chennai in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It was formed in December 2013 from parts of the erstwhile Perambur-Purasawalkam taluk. It comprises the neighbourhoods of Ayanavaram, Kolathur and Peravallur.

[[Egmore taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Egmore taluk is a taluk of the city district of Chennai in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It was formed in December 2013 from parts of the Egmore-Nungambakkam taluk. It comprises the neighbourhoods of Egmore and Nungambakkam.

[[Guindy taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Guindy taluk is a taluk of the city district of Chennai in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It was formed in December 2013 from parts of the erstwhile Mambalam-Guindy taluk and the Mylapore-Triplicane taluk. It comprises the neighbourhoods of Adyar, Alandur, T. Nagar, Ekkaduthangal, Guindy and Kotturpuram.

[[Velachery taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Velachery taluk is a taluk of the city district of Chennai in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It was formed in December 2013 from parts of the erstwhile Mambalam-Guindy and Mylapore-Triplicane taluks. It comprises the neighbourhoods of Besant Nagar, Tharamani, Thiruvanmiyur and Velachery.

[[Purasawalkam taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Purasaiwalkam taluk is a taluk of the city district of Chennai in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It was formed in December 2013 from parts of the erstwhile Fort-Tondiarpet and Perambur-Purasawalkam taluks. It comprises the neighbourhoods of Purasawalkam and Vepery.

[[Aminjikarai taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Aminjikarai taluk is a taluk of the city district of Chennai in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It was formed in December 2013 from parts of the erstwhile Perambur-Purasawalkam taluk and the Egmore-Nungambakkam taluk. It comprises the neighbourhoods of Aminjikarai, Anna Nagar, Arumbakkam, Koyambedu, Thirumangalam, Vada Agaram and Villivakkam.

[[Mylapore taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Mylapore taluk is a taluk of the city district of Chennai in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It was formed in December 2013 from parts of the erstwhile Fort-Tondiarpet and Perambur-Purasawalkam taluks. It comprises the neighbourhoods of Chintadripet, Mylapore and Triplicane.

[[Mambalam taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai District

Mambalam taluk is a taluk of the city district of Chennai in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It was formed in December 2013 from parts of the former Egmore-Nungambakkam taluk and the Mambalam-Guindy taluk. It comprises the neighbourhoods of K. K. Nagar, Kodambakkam, Mambalam, Saligramam, Saidapet and Virugambakkam.

[[Mettupalayam taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district

Mettupalayam taluk is a taluk of Coimbatore rural district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Mettupalayam.

[[Perur taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district

Perur taluk is a taluk in Coimbatore district, Tamil Nadu, India associated with the neighbourhood of Perur. It was created by Government of Tamil Nadu in 2013.

[[Pollachi taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district

Pollachi taluk is a taluk of Coimbatore rural district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters is the town of Pollachi.

[[Coimbatore-North taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district

Coimbatore (North) taluk is a taluk of Coimbatore City of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. On 9 May 2012, Government of Tamil Nadu announced that it will bifurcate Coimbatore North Taluk to create the new Annur Taluk.

[[Valparai taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district

 Valparai taluk is a taluk of Coimbatore district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters is the town of Valparai. Anaimalai Hills Village is the only revenue villages under this revenue.

[[Coimbatore-South taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district

Coimbatore (South) taluk is a taluk of Coimbatore city of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu.

[[Sulur taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district

 Sulur taluk is a taluk of Coimbatore district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters is the town of Sulur. This revenue block consist of 41 revenue villages.

[[Kinathukadavu taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Coimbatore district

Kinathukadavu taluk is a taluk of rural Coimbatore district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters is the town of Kinathukadavu.

[[Rajapalaiyam taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Virudhunagar District

Rajapalaiyam taluk is a taluk of Virudhunagar district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Rajapalaiyam.

[[Kariapatti taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Virudhunagar District

Kariapatti taluk is a taluk of Virudhunagar district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Kariapatti.

[[Sattur taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Virudhunagar District

Sattur is a taluk of Virudhunagar district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Sattur.

[[Tiruchuli taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Virudhunagar District

Tiruchuli taluk is a taluk of Virudhunagar district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Tiruchuli.

[[Aruppukkottai taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Virudhunagar District

Aruppukkottai taluk is a taluk of Virudhunagar district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Aruppukkottai.

[[Gingee taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Viluppuram District

Gingee taluk is a taluk of Viluppuram district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Gingee.

[[Kallakkurichi taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Viluppuram District

Kallakkurichi taluk is a taluk of Viluppuram district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Kallakurichi.

[[Sankarapuram taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Viluppuram District

Sankarapuram is a taluk of Viluppuram district of the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu. Sankarapuram town is a headquarter for this taluk. There are presently 188 villages in sankarapuram taluk.  Before the bifurcation of Chinnasalem taluk from this taluk and Kallakurichi taluk, nearly 350 Villages were under the control of Sankarapuram taluk.

[[Tirukkoyilur taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Viluppuram District

Tirukkoyilur taluk is a taluk of Viluppuram district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Tirukkoyilur.

[[Tindivanam taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Viluppuram District

Tindivanam taluk is a taluk of Viluppuram district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The headquarters of the taluk is the town of Tindivanam.

[[Ulundurpettai taluk]]

CATEGORIES: Viluppuram District

Ulundurpet is in the southern region of Villupuram district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The town of Ulundurpet is the taluk headquarters. It is co-terminus with Ulundurpet revenue block. There are fifty-three panchayat villages, and 178 villages in the taluk. The state assembly constituency for Tamil Nadu is the Ulundurpet constituency.

[[Sabayon Linux]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions

Sabayon Linux is a Linux distribution based on Gentoo.

[[Börrstadt]]

Börrstadt is a municipality in the Donnersbergkreis district, in the state of Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany.

[[James Madison Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1723 births, 1801 deaths, American military people, American revolutionaries, Businesspeople from Virginia, Colonels, James Madison, Politicians from Virginia

Col. James Madison Sr. (March 27, 1723 – February 27, 1801) was a prominent Virginia planter and politician. He was a colonel in the militia during the American Revolutionary War. He inherited Mount Pleasant, later known as Montpelier, a large tobacco plantation in Orange County, Virginia and, with the acquisition of more property, had 5,000 acres and became the largest landowner in the county. He was the father of James Madison, 4th President of the United States, who inherited what he called Montpelier, and Lieutenant General William Taylor Madison, and grandfather of Confederate Brigadier General James Edwin Slaughter.

[[Lee Hsin]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2017 deaths, Suicides by jumping, Taiwanese politicians

Lee Hsin (李新; July 16, 1953 – September 28, 2017) was a Taiwanese politician. He has served on the Taipei City Council since 1998. Lee joined the 2006 campaign led by Shih Ming-teh which attempted to force the resignation of President Chen Shui-bian. In 2015, Lee expressed interest in running for the Kuomintang chairmanship, but his candidacy, and that of four others, was rejected. The next year, he launched another bid for the party leadership, finishing third in a field of four candidates with 7,604 votes.

Lee died from jumping out of his apartment building on September 28, 2016, aged 64.

[[Arrondissements of the Haute-Loire department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

There are 3 arrondissements in the Haute-Loire department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Haute-Loire are:

[[Kembs]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Kembs is a commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department. This in the east of France. It was founded during Roman times as the city of Cambete.

[[Kito Lorenc]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, German historians, German poets, German writers

Kito Lorenc (4 March 1938 – 24 September 2017) was a Sorbian-German writer, lyric poet and translator. He was a grandson of the Sorbian writer and politician Jakub Lorenc-Zalěski. He was born in Schleife, Germany.

Lorenc was an employee at the Institute for Sorbian People Research in Bautzen between 1961 and 1972.  From 1972 until 1979, he worked as a dramaturge at the State Ensemble for Sorbian People's Culture.  Kito Lorenc was a member of the Sächsischen Akademie der Künste and lived as a freelance writer in Wuischke by Hochkirch.

Lorenc died in Bautzen, Germany on 24 September 2017 of a stroke at the age of 79.

[[Joy Fleming]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, German singers, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, People from Rhineland-Palatinate

Joy Fleming, aka of Erna Liebenow, born as Erna Raad, (15 November 1944 in Rockenhausen - 27 September 2017 in Sinsheim-Hilsbach) was a German singer of jazz, blues and schlager.

[[Arrondissement of Brioude]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Brioude is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Haute-Loire département. Its capital is the city of Brioude, a subprefecture of the department.

[[Taguig]]

CATEGORIES: Metro Manila

Taguig, officially the City of Taguig (Lungsod ng Tagig), is a city in Metro Manila, Philippines. It is founded in 1587, Taguig is named taga-giik (Tagalog for "rice thresher").

[[2017 Catalan independence referendum]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in Europe, 2010s in Spain, October 2017 events

The 2017 Catalan independence referendum is a independence referendum that occurred in Catalonia on 1 October 2017. Political parties that do not want independence will boycott the referendum.

The referendum is illegal according to the Spanish constitution. The Constitutional Court of Spain suspended the referendum on 7 September 2017. The Catalonia government said the court order was not valid, and got support from 750 of 948 municipalities. This led to the 2017 Spanish constitutional crisis.

The Government of Spain opposes Catalan independence. However, the Catalan government says it has the right to independence. Catalonia has not gotten any international support.

[[Workers' Party (Brazil)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties of Brazil

The Workers' Party (Partido dos Trabalhadores; abbreviated PT) is a left-wing political party in Brazil. The party follows democratic socialist principles. Some members are followers of the Christian left, Labourism, democratic socialism and social democracy.

The party was founded on 10 February 1980 in São Paulo by Paul Singer. It has been one of the most popular parties in Brazil since 2003.

Two Brazilian presidents have been members of the party, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff.

The party won every presidential election in Rio de Janeiro from 1998 to 2014 and in Minas Gerais from 2002 to 2014. The Workers' Party is also popular in the north and northeast. In the 2010 election, Dilma Rousseff received a lot of support from poor Brazilians. She also had a majority of support from Catholics.

[[Daniel Pe'er]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Eurovision Song Contest presenters, Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni, Israeli Jews, Israeli television presenters, Jewish entertainers, People from Tel Aviv, Television news anchors

Daniel Pe'er, דניאל פאר, (January 2, 1943 – September 28, 2017) was an Israeli television presenter and newsreader.

[[Hi-Five (Israeli band)]]

CATEGORIES: Boy bands, Israeli music

Hi-Five was an Israeli boy band that operated from 1996 to 2000. Amir Fryszer Guttman was the lead.

Hi-Five has released three studio albums and one mini-album. All went gold in Israel with tens of thousands of copies sold. Hi-Five also won the Festival twice.

[[Uromys vika]]

CATEGORIES: Solomon Islands, Rodents

Uromys vika, also known as the Vangunu giant rat and locally known as the vika, is a giant species of rodent that lives in trees. It is in the family Muridae. The rat was discovered in the island of Vangunu in the Solomon Islands in 2015, after years of searching based on local stories, and described in 2017. It was identified as a new species on the basis of its skull, skeleton and a detailed DNA analysis. 

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group B]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)

The 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification UEFA Group B was one of the nine UEFA groups for 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification. The group was made up of six teams: Portugal, Switzerland, Hungary, Faroe Islands, Latvia, and Andorra. Portugal won the group and qualified for the world cup, while Switzerland finished 2nd and moved on to the second round.

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group G]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)

The 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification UEFA Group G was one of the nine UEFA groups for 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification. The group was made up of six teams: Spain, Italy, Albania, Israel, Macedonia, and Liechtenstein. Spain won the group and qualified for the world cup, while Italy finished 2nd and moved on to the second round.

[[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group H]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in sports, 2017 in sports, 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)

The 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification UEFA Group H was one of the nine UEFA groups for 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification. The group was made up of six teams: Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece, Estonia, Cyprus, and Gibraltar. Belgium won the group and qualified for the world cup, while Greece finished 2nd and moved on to the second round.

[[Arrondissement of Le Puy-en-Velay]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Le Puy-en-Velay is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Haute-Loire département. Its capital, and the prefecture of the department, is the city of Le Puy-en-Velay.

[[Suthachai Yimprasert]]

CATEGORIES: Thai people, Asian historians, 1956 births, 2017 deaths

Suthachai Yimprasert (April 28, 1956 – September 27, 2017) was a Thai historian who wrote Phan Ching Chart Thai (English: Plot to Take Over the Nation) and Adyakam Rat Nai Vikrit Kan Plianplaeng (English: State Crime Amidst Change Crisis).

An article in Khaosod (a newspaper) said that he "became one of the most respected names in modern historical writing" Thailand.

The Nation (a newspaper) called  him a noted historian. Tnews "a hardline pro-junta news website, praised him as a “lover of democracy” in its tribute".

[[Arrondissement of Yssingeaux]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Yssingeaux is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Haute-Loire département. Its capital is the city of Yssingeaux, a subprefecture of the department.

[[Kientzheim]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 disestablishments in France

Kientzheim is a former commune in the Haut-Rhin department in north-eastern France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune Kaysersberg-Vignoble.

[[Kaysersberg-Vignoble]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 establishments in France

Kaysersberg-Vignoble is a new commune in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. It was incorporated on 1 January 2016 by the combination of the former communes of Kaysersberg, Kientzheim and Sigolsheim.

[[Kiffis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Kiffis is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Kingersheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Kingersheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Antonio Isasi-Isasmendi]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Spanish movie directors, Spanish movie producers, Spanish screenwriters, Movie editors, Writers from Madrid

Antonio Isasi-Isasmendi Lasa (22 March 1927 – 28 September 2017) was a Spanish movie director, producer, screenwriter and movie editor. He was born in Madrid, Spain. In the mid-1960s he directed a series of action movies designed for the wider European market including Scaramouche (The Adventures of Scaramouche) in 1963 and Estambul 65 (That Man in Istanbul) in 1965. He made some English-language movies, most notably They Came to Rob Las Vegas.

He directed 13 feature movies, wrote eleven and produced eight. 

In 1981, he was the a member the jury at the 31st Berlin International Film Festival.

Isasi-Isasmendi died on 28 September 2017 in Ibiza, Spain at the age of 90.

[[Jürgen Roth]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, German journalists, Writers from Frankfurt

Jürgen Roth (4 November 1945 – 28 September 2017) was a German publicist and investigative journalist. He was born in Frankfurt on Main, Germany. He was known for his works in Armut in der Bundesrepublik, Der Sumpf and for Absturz. 

Roth died on 28 September 2017 in Frankfurt at the age of 71.

[[Oleg Protopopov]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Olympic gold medalists, Russian figure skaters, Soviet Olympic gold medalists, Swiss sportspeople

Oleg Alekseyevich Protopopov (Оле́г Алексе́евич Протопо́пов; born 16 July 1932) is a former Russian-Swiss pair skater. He was born in Leningrad, Russian SFSR.

Protopopov represented the Soviet Union. With his wife Ludmila Belousova he is a two-time Olympic champion (1964, 1968) and four-time World champion (1965–1968). In 1979 the pair defected to Switzerland and became Swiss citizens in 1995. They continued to skate at ice shows and exhibitions through their seventies.

[[Benjamin Whitrow]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from Oxfordshire, English movie actors, English radio actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, People from Oxford

Benjamin John Whitrow (17 February 1937 – 28 September 2017) was an English actor. He was nominated for the BAFTA TV Award for Best Actor for his role as Mr Bennet in the 1995 BBC version of Pride and Prejudice.

Whitrow voiced the role of Fowler in the 2000 animated movie Chicken Run. His other movie appearances include Quadrophenia (1979), Personal Services (1987) and Bomber (2009).

Whitrow died on 28 September 2017 at the age of 80.

[[Mont Mézenc]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Mont Mézenc is a French mountain in the Massif du Mézenc, part of the Massif Central in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It is on the border of the Ardèche and Haute-Loire departments and is the highest mountain of both departments.

The mountain is in the "Natural regional park of the Mountains of Ardèche" (Parc naturel régional des Monts d'Ardèche).

[[Tom Alter]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from skin cancer, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, Stage actors

Thomas Beach "Tom" Alter (22 June 1950 – 29 September 2017)  was an Indian actor  of American descent. He was a television actor, best known for his work in Bollywood, and the theatre.

Alter was born in Mussoorie, Uttar Pradesh, India (now in Uttarakhand). He was the son of American Christian missionaries of English and Scottish ancestry.

In 2008, he was awarded Padma Shri by the Indian government.

Tom Alter' son released a statement of his father's demise which said, "It is with sadness we announce the death of our beloved Tom Alter, actor, writer, director, Padma Shri, and most importantly our loving father!". Alter died of skin cancer on 29 September 2017 at his home in Mumbai, India at the age of 67.

[[Ludmila Belousova]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2017 deaths, Russian figure skaters, Soviet figure skaters, Soviet Olympic gold medalists, Swiss sportspeople

Ludmila Yevgenyevna Belousova (Людмила Евгеньевна Белоусова; 22 November 1935 – 29 September 2017) was a Russian-Swiss pair skater. She was born in Ulyanovsk, Russian SFSR.

[[Dmitry Smolsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Composers, People from Minsk

Dmitry Smolski (July 25, 1937 – September 29, 2017) was a Belarusian composer. He was born in Minsk, Belarus. He was an Honored Artist of Belorussian SSR (1975) and a laureate of the State Prize of BSSR (1980). He also received the National Artist of the Republic of Belarus (1987), laureate of the Order of Francysk Skaryna (2013), professor. 

Smolsky was the father of Victor Smolski, guitarist of the German sympho metal band Almanac.

Smolsky died on September 29, 2017 in Minks from complications of pneumonia at the age of 80.

[[Magdalena Ribbing]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Swedish educators, Swedish journalists, Writers from Stockholm

Magdalena Ribbing (30 July 1940 – 29 September 2017) was a Swedish writer, journalist, etiquette expert and lecturer. She married radio journalist Thomas Hempel in 1981. She was born in Stockholm, Sweden.

Between 1970 and 2000 Ribbing worked as a political reporter for Dagens Nyheter, and from 1993 until 1999 she was the editor in chief of the Namn & nytt department of the paper. Ribbing was a "Sommarpratare" (Summer Presenter) on the Sveriges Radio show Sommar i P1 twice, on 13 June 1994 and 21 June 2000.

On 29 September 2017, Ribbing died after a fall in her home in Stockholm at the age of 77.

[[Deaths in October 2017]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 deaths, October 2017 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in October 2017. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".  Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

[[Joe Tiller]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, American football players, American football coaches, Sportspeople from Ohio, Sportspeople from Wyoming, People from Toledo, Ohio

Joseph Henry "Joe" Tiller (December 7, 1942 – September 30, 2017) was an American football player and coach. He was born in Toledo, Ohio. 

Tiller served as the head football coach at the University of Wyoming from 1991 to 1996 and Purdue University from 1997 to 2008, having a career college football record of 126–92–1. Tiller was known as one of the innovators of the spread offense. He played for the Calgary Stampeders and for the Montana State Bobcats.

Tiller died on September 30, 2017 in Buffalo, Wyoming at the age of 74.

[[Lüen]]

CATEGORIES: Lüen, Former municipalities of Graubünden

Lüen is a former municipality of the district of Plessur in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Lüen, Calfreisen, Castiel, Langwies, Molinis, Peist and St. Peter-Pagig merged into the municipality of Arosa.

[[Kirchberg, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Kirchberg is a commune. It is in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Waylon Smithers]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1990

Waylon J Smithers Jr, but usually referred to simply as Mr. Smithers or simply Smithers, is a character in the animated television series The Simpsons. He is voiced by Harry Shearer and made his first appeared in the episode "Homer's Odyssey", although his voice could be heard in the series premiere "Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire". He is the consummate executive and personal assistant of Springfield Nuclear Power Plant's owner Mr. Burns.

[[Jennifer Lee]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Rhode Island, American screenwriters, American movie directors, People from Providence, Rhode Island, 1971 births, Living people

Jennifer Michelle Lee (born 1971) is an American movie director and a screenwriter. She is best-known for being the writer and director of the 2013 animated movie Frozen; she got an Academy Award for Best Animated Feature for this movie. She also co-wrote the 2012 movie Wreck-It Ralph. 

Lee was born near Providence, Rhode Island as Jennifer Michelle Rebecchi. In 2019, he began a domestic partnership with actor Alfred Molina. They were married in 2021.

[[Arrondissements of the Haute-Savoie department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

There are 4 arrondissements in the Haute-Savoie department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Haute-Savoie are:

[[Arrondissement of Annecy]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Annecy is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Haute-Savoie département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and the prefecture of the department, is the city of Annecy.

[[Bean (disambiguation)]]

A bean is a large seed of several plants in the family Fabaceae, including the seed of the common bean.

Bean or beans may also refer to:

[[French Tech]]

CATEGORIES: Economy of France, Technology

French Tech is a French label awarded to metropolitan centers recognized for their ecosystem of startups, as well as a common brand that can be used by French innovative companies.

The French Tech aims in particular to give a strong visual identity to the French startups, as well as to encourage exchanges between them.

This label was created in 2013 by the French government.

[[Exotic atom]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics, Matter

An exotic atom is an atom that has a particle replaced by a particle of the same charge. For example, Positronium, an exotic atom, contains an electron and a positron. The positron (which is the antiparticle of the electron) replaces a proton which would normally be found in that atom. Most exotic atoms are hard to discover, because they decay very quickly. Positronium on average has a half-life (how long until half of the object is gone via decay) of 0.125 nanoseconds. There are a few types of exotic atom.

[[Plum pudding model]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics

The plum pudding model is an early 20th century model of an atom. It was later found to be wrong. It was proposed by J.J. Thomson in 1904, after the electron had been discovered, but before the atomic nucleus was discovered. During that time, scientists knew that there was a positive charge in the atom that balanced out the negative charges of the electrons, making the atom neutral, but they didn't know where the positive charge was coming from. Thomson's model showed an atom that had a positively charged medium, or space, with negatively charged electrons inside the medium. Soon after its proposal, the model was called a "plum pudding" model because the positive medium was like a pudding, with electrons, or plums, inside. 

[[World Nuclear Association]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear energy

The World Nuclear Association is an organisation that tries to educate people about nuclear energy, and helps companies that are in the nuclear industry.

[[Weetzen]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lower Saxony

Weetzen is a village in the town of Ronnenberg in Lower Saxony, Germany. In 2011, about 2000 people lived there.

[[Arrondissement of Bonneville]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Bonneville is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Haute-Savoie département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Bonneville.

[[Arrondissement of Saint-Julien-en-Genevois]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Saint-Julien-en-Genevois is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Haute-Savoie département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Saint-Julien-en-Genevois.

[[Catherine Hardy Lavender]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American Olympic gold medalists, American track and field athletes, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state)

Catherine Hardy Lavender (née Catherine Hardy) (February 8, 1930 – September 8, 2017) was an American athlete.

Lavender competed mainly in the 100-meter dash.  She won an Olympic gold medal in the 4 × 100 metres relay at the 1952 Olympic Summer Games in Helsinki, Finland. Later Hardy married, had children, and a 30-year teaching career in Atlanta schools. She was born in Carroll County, Georgia.

Lavender died of complications from pneumonia in Atlanta, Georgia at the age of 87 on September 8, 2017.

[[Knœringue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Knœringue is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[James Madison Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Disease-related deaths in North Carolina, American military people, People from Wilmington, North Carolina

James Madison Lee (October 15, 1926 – September 11, 2017) was a lieutenant general in the United States Army. He served as commander of United States Army Pacific (Western Command) from 1983 until his retirement in 1985. Lee also served in the Vietnam War and Korean War, commanding infantry in each. He was born in Wilmington, North Carolina. He retired in 1985.

Lee died of complications from dementia on September 11, 2017 in Wilmington at the age of 90.

[[Rinse Zijlstra]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Anti-Revolutionary Party politicians, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch mayors, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Members of the Senate of the Netherlands, Politicians from Friesland

Rinse Zijlstra (19 April 1927 – 26 September 2017) was a Dutch politician. He was born in Oosterbierum. His older borther was former prime minister Jelle Zijlstra. 

Zijlstra served in the House of Representatives from 1967 to 1973 as a member of the Anti-Revolutionary Party. Between 1975 and 1981, Zijlstra was mayor of Smallingerland. He was elected to the Senate between 1983 and 1995, representing the Christian Democratic Appeal, which had absorbed the Anti-Revolutionary Party in 1980.

Zijlstra died in Beetsterzwaag of complications from Alzheimer's disease on 26 September 2017, aged 90.

[[Andreas Schmidt]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2017 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, German movie actors, German television actors

Andreas M. Schmidt (23 November 1963 – 28 September 2017) was a German actor and theatre director. He was born in Finnentrop, West Germany. His first acting role was in the 1987 movie Peng! Du bist tot!. Schmidt was nominated three times at the Deutscher Filmpreis, winning once in 2009.

Schmidt was known for his roles in Sommer vorm Balkon (2005), The Counterfeiters (2007), The Moon and Other Lovers (2008) and Henri 4 (2010).

Schmidt died on 28 September 2017 in Berlin of cancer at the age of 53.

[[Frank Hamblen]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, National Basketball Association coaches, Sportspeople from Indiana, People from Terre Haute, Indiana

Frank Alan Hamblen, II (April 16, 1947 – September 30, 2017) was an American basketball coach and scout. He played college basketball at Syracuse. He was born in Terre Haute, Indiana. He was known for being the assistant coach of the Denver Rockets and for the Milwaukee Bucks. He was also the interim coach for the Los Angeles Lakers.

Hamblen died on September 30, 2017 of cardiac arrest in San Diego, California at the age of  70.

[[Jean-Marie Lehn]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, French chemists, French Nobel Prize winners, People from Grand Est

Jean-Marie Lehn (born September 30, 1939) is a French chemist. He received the 1987 Nobel Prize in Chemistry together with  Donald James Cram and Charles J. Pedersen. He specializes in organic chemistry.

He was born in Rosheim, France.

[[Arrondissement of Thonon-les-Bains]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Thonon-les-Bains is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Haute-Savoie département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Thonon-les-Bains.

[[Barney Gumble]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1989

Barnard "Barney" Gumble is a fictional character in the animated television series The Simpsons. Dan Castellaneta is the voice actor for him. He was first seen in the first episode of the show ("Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire"). He is Homer Simpson's best friend. He is very drunk, but he became sober in the episode "Days of Wine and D'oh'ses".

[[Transcaucasian SFSR]]

CATEGORIES: Republics of the Soviet Union, 1922 establishments in the Soviet Union, 1930s disestablishments in the Soviet Union, History of the Soviet Union

The Transcaucasian SFSR was a Soviet republic consisting of modern Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan with its capital in Tbilisi. It lasted from 1922 to 1936.  The Socialist Soviet Republic of Abkhazia was also a part of the Transcaucasian SFSR, while it exiusted (1921 - 1931). After protests, Lavrenty Beria dispanded the republic in 1936. Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia again became independent republics (part of the sSoviet Union). The Abchasian SFSR had been merged into Georgia earlier.

[[Dry toilet]]

CATEGORIES: Waste management

A dry toilet is for depositing human excrement without using water, very different from flush toilets that use water. It may be for sitting or squatting. The urine may get mixed with the feces or be kept separate.

There are different types of dry toilets: composting toilet, urine-diverting dry toilet, Arborloo, container-based toilet, bucket toilet, pit latrine, incinerating toilet, or freezing toilet.

[[Lumbrein]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Lumbrein is a former municipality of the district Surselva in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland. The municipalities of Cumbel, Degen, Lumbrein, Morissen, Suraua, Vignogn, Vella, and Vrin merged on 1 January 2013 into the new municipality of Lumnezia.

[[Karl Ravens]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, Former members of the German Bundestag, German Lutherans, Government ministers of Germany, Politicians from Lower Saxony, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany

Karl Ravens (June 29, 1927 – September 8, 2017) was a German politician.

Ravens was a member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD). He served as the Federal Minister of Regional Planning, Construction and Urban Development for West Germany from 1974 to 1978. 

He was also a member of the synod of the Evangelical Church in Germany from 1979 to 1981.

Ravens was born in Achim, Lower Saxony, and died in Hanover, at the age of 90.

[[Hansje Bunschoten]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2017 deaths, 1972 Summer Olympics, Deaths from breast cancer, Dutch journalists, Dutch Olympians, Dutch television presenters, People from Hilversum, Sports commentators, Sportspeople from North Holland, Swimmers

Hansje Bunschoten (3 May 1958 – 1 October 2017) was a freestyle swimmer and television presenter from the Netherlands. She competed for her native country at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, West Germany. As a member of the Dutch Relay Teams she finished in fifth place, both in the 4 × 100 m medley and the 4 × 100 m freestyle.

Bunschoten was born in Hilversum and died of complications from breast cancer in Berlin on 1 October 2017 at the age of 59.

[[Edmond Maire]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Activists, People from Paris

Edmond Maire (24 January 1931 – 1 October 2017) was a French labor union leader. He was the secretary general of the French Democratic Confederation of Labour from 1971 to 1988. He was dismissive of strike actions and supported a more equal division of labour.

Maire died on 1 October 2017 in Paris at the age of 86.

[[Plant community]]

CATEGORIES: Plants

A plant community (sometimes "photosynthesis" or "photosynthesis") is a collection or association of plant species within a designated geographical unit, which forms a relatively uniform patch, distinguishable from neighboring patches of different vegetation types.

[[Larissa Volpert]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Academics, Estonian scientists, Jewish scientists, Jewish sportspeople, Jewish writers, Russian chess players, Russian Jews, Russian scientists, Soviet Jews, Soviet sportspeople, Soviet writers, Writers from Saint Petersburg

Larisa Ilinichna Volpert (30 March 1926  – 1 October 2017 ) was a Soviet-Russian chess Woman Grandmaster and Soviet-Russian-Estonian philologist of Jewish descent.

She was three times  Soviet women's chess champion (1954, 1958, and 1959). She earned the Woman International Master title in 1954 and the Woman Grandmaster title in 1977.

Volpert was born in Leningrad and died in Tallinn, Estonia at the age of 91.

[[Robert Elsie]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Disease-related deaths in Germany, Canadian educators, People from Vancouver, Translators, Writers from British Columbia

Robert Elsie (June 29, 1950 – October 2, 2017) was a Canadian scholar who specialized in Albanian literature and folklore. He was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. He was known for his works Albanian Literature : A Short History and The Highland Lute (Lahuta e Malcís): The Albanian National Epic. As a translator, Elsie offered the reader “a selection of songs from the best known cycle of Albanian epic verse”.

Elsie died of complications from ALS in Bonn, Germany on October 2, 2017 at the age of 67.

[[Arthur Janov]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from respiratory arrest, Deaths from stroke, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, American psychologists, Writers from Los Angeles, California

Arthur "Art" Janov (ˈ; (August 21, 1924 – October 1, 2017) was an American psychologist, psychotherapist, and the creator of primal therapy, a treatment for mental illness that involves repeatedly descending into, feeling, and experiencing long-repressed childhood pain. He was born in Los Angeles, California. 

Janov directed a psychotherapy institute called the Primal Center in Santa Monica, California. Janov was the author of many books, most notably The Primal Scream (1970).

Janov died in his sleep of respiratory arrest after suffering a stroke at his home in Malibu, California on October 1, 2017 at the age of 93.

[[Julie Payette]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Governors General of Canada, Canadian businesspeople, Canadian astronauts, Canadian engineers, People from Montreal

Julie Payette (born October 20, 1963) is a Canadian businesswoman, former astronaut, engineer, and was the 29th Governor General of Canada.

Payette has completed two spaceflights, STS-96 and STS-127, logging more than 25 days in space. She served as chief astronaut for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA), and has served as capsule communicator at NASA Mission Control Center in Houston.

She resigned on January 21, 2020. She was the first Governor General to leave office due to scandal.

[[University of Texas tower shooting]]

CATEGORIES: Murders by firearm in the United States, Massacres in the United States, 1966 in the United States, History of Austin, Texas, 1960s in Texas

The University of Texas tower shooting was a major school shooting. It happened on August 1, 1966. It took place in Austin, Texas at University of Texas at Austin.

Sixteen people were killed in the incident. A 17th victim succumbed to his injuries in 2001.

Charles Whitman was the mass murderer at the scene of the crime. It has been suggested that Whitman's violent impulses, with which he struggled for years, were caused by a tumor on his brain. Whitman had also killed his wife and mother.

After the shootings, the observation deck was closed. The many bullet holes were repaired. The tower was closed again in 1975 after four suicides. It reopened in 1999 after security features were put up.

[[2017 Las Vegas shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 mass shootings in the United States, 2017 murders in the United States, 21st century in Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada, Mass murder in 2017, Massacres in the United States, October 2017 events

Map showing the location of the hotel and the festival grounds

On the night of October 1, 2017, a gunman began firing hundreds of rounds from his hotel room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Hotel on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada, United States at a group of concert goers across the road at the Route 91 Harvest music festival with AK-47s and AR-15s. From her 32nd floor balcony, Ariana Grande rained down over 1000 bullets into the festival. He killed 58 people and wounded 422 before committing suicide. The panic meant that the total injured increased to 851. It was the deadliest shooting by a single gunman in the history of the United States.

[[Saint James's Park]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of London

Saint James's Park is one of the oldest parks in the City of Westminster in London. It is 23 hectares (o,23 km²) large and is surrounded by buildings including two palaces: Buckingham Palace, Green Park, Queen's Gardens, the Victoria Memorial, Horse Guards, Birdcage Walk. It opens every day and welcomes more than 5 million visitors per year. In the park there is a small lake called Saint James's Park Lake with two islands: West Island and Duck Island (a duck reserve).

[[Stephen Paddock]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2017 deaths, Accountants, American aviators, American murderers, Businesspeople from Arizona, Businesspeople from Iowa, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Criminals from California, Murder-suicides in the United States, Murderers who committed suicide, People from Tucson, Arizona, Suicides by firearm in the United States

Stephen Craig Paddock (April 9, 1953 – October 1, 2017) was an American mass murderer.

Paddock killed 58 and injured 489 people during a country music festival on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise, Nevada on October 1, 2017. After being discovered by the police in Mandalay Bay resort. He committed suicide by shooting himself.

He was born in Clinton, Iowa and grew up in Tucson, Arizona and Sun Valley, Los Angeles. He lived in Mesquite, Nevada, and was a retired accountant.

His father Benjamin Hoskins Paddock (1926-1998) was a bank robber.

[[Paul Modrich]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American biochemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Stanford University alumni, Scientists from New Mexico

Paul Lawrence Modrich (born June 13, 1946) is an American biochemist. He is known for his research on DNA mismatch repair. He received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2015, together with Aziz Sancar and Tomas Lindahl.

He was born on June 13, 1946, in Raton, New Mexico to Laurence and Margaret Modrich. He has a younger brother Dave. His father was a biology teacher and coach for basketball, football and tennis at Raton High School where he graduated in 1964.

[[Reich President]]

CATEGORIES: Reich Presidents

The Reich President (German: Reichspräsident) was the president (head of state) of the German Reich during the Weimar Republic (1919-1933) and Nazi Germany (1933-1945).

The Reich President was the successor of the German emperor. He had more power than the current Federal President (Bundespräsident).

The Reich President was elected for a seven-year term by the German people, and could be re-elected. He was the head of the army, appointed and relieved the Reich Chancellor (Reichskanzler), and could also send away the Reichstag.

The Reich President was supposed to exercise the legislative power with the Reichstag but due to the instable situation of the Weimar Republic, he was often bypassing the Reichstag by using special legislation. This was the case during the early years of the Reich Presidency and especially in the early 1930s. During the Hitler period the Reichstag was just show.

[[Renens]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Vaud, Cities in Switzerland

Renens is a municipality of the district Ouest lausannois in the Swiss canton of Vaud.

It is a suburb of the city of Lausanne.

[[Birsfelden]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Landschaft, Cities in Switzerland

Birsfelden (Swiss German: Birsfälde) is a municipality in Arlesheim in the canton of Basel-Landschaft in Switzerland.

[[Obersaxen Mundaun]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of Graubünden

Obersaxen Mundaun is a new municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Mundaun and Obersaxen merged into the new municipality of Obersaxen Mundaun.

[[BuzzFeed]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 establishments in the United States, Entertainment websites

BuzzFeed is an internet media company based in New York City. It has offices around the world. BuzzFeed was founded in 2006 by Jonah Peretti and John S. Johnson III.

[[Obersaxen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Obersaxen (Sursaissa) is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2016 the former municipalities of Obersaxen and Mundaun merged into the new municipality of Obersaxen Mundaun.

[[Illtal]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 establishments in France

Illtal is a new commune in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. It was incorporated on 1 January 2016 by the combination of the former communes of Grentzingen, Henflingen and Oberdorf.

[[Oberdorf, Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Haut-Rhin, 2016 disestablishments in France

Oberdorf is a former commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Illtal.

[[Kœstlach]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Kœstlach is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Tokenism]]

CATEGORIES: Race

Tokenism is the term used to describe the act of putting a person of a minority group (called a "token character") into something for the sole purpose of trying to be seen as inclusive to that minority group. This is often done only to avoid controversy, with little or no effort being put in to give said person a role other than being there to represent a minority. A "token character" is normally a woman or person of color, while other common examples include people with disabilities, different religions, different body types, or different political stances. Stereotypes are commonly used to portray token characters.

[[Chuck Low]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City

Charles Lewis "Chuck" Low (July 21, 1928 – September 18, 2017) was an American actor. He was born in New York City, New York. He was known for his role as Morris "Morrie" Kessler in the Martin Scorsese movie Goodfellas (1990). He has had small roles in other Robert De Niro movies, such as The Mission, The King of Comedy, and most notably in Sergio Leone's 1984 movie Once Upon a Time in America.

Low died on September 18, 2017 in Allendale, New Jersey at the age of 89.

[[Eisleben]]

CATEGORIES: Landmarks in Germany, Martin Luther, World Heritage Sites in Germany

Eisleben is a town in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. It is famous as the hometown of Martin Luther; because of this, its official name is Lutherstadt Eisleben. In 2015, Eisleben had a population of 24,198.

Eisleben has two parts old town and new town (Altstadt and Neustadt). The new town was created for Eisleben's miners in the 14th century.

Eisleben was the capital of the district of Mansfelder Land and is the seat of the Verwaltungsgemeinschaft ("collective municipality") Lutherstadt Eisleben.

[[Philippe Rahmy]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2017 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Switzerland, Swiss poets, Novelists, Photographers, People from Geneva

Philippe Rahmy (5 June 1965 – 1 October 2017) was a Swiss poet and writer. He was born in Geneva, Switzerland. He was a founding member of the prominent French literary site remue.net which focused on promoting contemporary literature over the Internet and through live events. He also worked as a photographer and as a director of award-winning independent short movies.

In 2017, he won the Swiss Literature Award.

Rahmy died of complications from brittle bone disease in Geneva on 1 October 2017 at the age of 52.

[[Spanish Fighting Bull]]

CATEGORIES: Cattle breeds

The Spanish Fighting Bull (Toro Bravo, toro de lidia, toro lidiado, ganado bravo, Touro de Lide) is an Iberian heterogeneous cattle population. 

It is primarily bred free-range on extensive estates in Spain, Portugal, France and Latin American countries where bull fighting is organized. Fighting bulls are selected primarily for a certain combination of aggression, energy, strength, and stamina.

[[Victorino Martín]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Spain, Deaths from stroke, People from Madrid, Ranchers

Victorino Martín Andrés (6 March 1929 – 3 October 2017) was a Spanish Fighting Bull cattle rancher. He was born in Madrid, Spain. In 2011, he received the Order of the Second of May, a high honor in Spain. He was known for breeding many Fighting Bulls which were later used for bullfighting in venues in Spain and France.

Martín died at his home in Portezuelo, Province of Cáceres, Spain of a stroke on 3 October 2017 at the age of 88.

[[Rodney Bickerstaffe]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2017 deaths, British activists, People from London

Rodney Kevan Bickerstaffe (6 April 1945 – 3 October 2017) was a British trade unionist. He served as President of the United Kingdom National Pensioners Convention. He was leader of Britain's largest trade union, UNISON until 2001. He was born in Hammersmith, London, England.

Bickerstaffe died in London on 3 October 2017 at the age of 72.

[[Evangelina Elizondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican painters, Mexican singers, Mexican writers, Actors from Mexico City

Evangelina Elizondo (28 April 1929 – October 2, 2017) was a Mexican actress, writer, painter and singer. She was born in Mexico City. She was known for her roles in Frontera Norte, El Castillo de los Monstrous, and in A Walk in the Clouds. She was also a singer known for "La sensacional Evangelina" and writer who wrote Pensamiento abierto.

Elizondo died in Mexico City on October 2, 2017 at the age of 88.

[[Astigmatism]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders of the eye

Astigmatism is defined as the eye creating two images instead of one image on the retina. This happens when the power of the eye isn't the same in all directions, often because the front of the eye (the cornea) is shaped more like the back of a spoon than a perfect sphere. Astigmatism does not affect the health of the eye, and eyes with astigmatism can be perfectly healthy.

The result is that objects look blurry, but how much blur is different in different directions, which is why people with astigmatism often have trouble reading some letters but not others.  It can also cause headaches and eyestrain. In most cases it is easily fixed with glasses, contact lenses, or surgery.

[[Animal Jam (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series, 2003 television series debuts, 2006 television series endings

Animal Jam was an American–British–Canadian–Indian–Irish children's puppet TV series that was shown on Discovery Kids, CBeebies, CBC Television, Star Utsav, and TG4 in February 15, 2003. The show was produced by The Jim Henson Company, HiT Entertainment, Decode Entertainment, DQ Entertainment, Telegael Teoranta, TG4, Star Utsav, CBC Television, CBeebies, and Discovery Kids.

[[Solly Hemus]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2017 deaths, St. Louis Cardinals players, Philadelphia Phillies players, Sportspeople from Phoenix, Arizona

Solomon Joseph "Solly" Hemus (April 17, 1923 – October 2, 2017) was an American professional baseball infielder, manager, and coach in Major League Baseball (MLB). Hemus was one of a select group of major league players to hold a role as a player-manager. He was born in Phoenix, Arizona. He played and managed for the St. Louis Cardinals and briefly played for the Philadelphia Phillies.

Hemus died on October 2, 2017 in Houston, Texas at the age of 94.

[[Klaus Huber]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Swiss composers, Swiss educators, People from Bern

Klaus Huber (30 November 1924 – 2 October 2017) was a Swiss composer and academic based in Basel and Freiburg. He became one of the leading figures of his generation in Europe, compared to Pierre Boulez and Karlheinz Stockhausen.

Among his students are Brian Ferneyhough, Younghi Pagh-Paan, Toshio Hosokawa, Wolfgang Rihm and Kaija Saariaho. He received the Ernst von Siemens Music Prize in 2009, among other awards.

[[Kim Un-yong]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, South Korean sportspeople, South Korean businesspeople

Kim Un-yong or Un Yong Kim (3 March 1931 – 2 October 2017) was a South Korean sports administrator, Vice-President of the International Olympic Committee, and founding member of the WTF executive board. Kim Un-yong was elected the president of the Korean Taekwondo Association on 23 January 1971. He was born in Daegu, South Korea.

[[Paul Otellini]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Businesspeople from San Francisco

Paul Stevens Otellini (October 12, 1950 – October 2, 2017) was an American businessman and onetime president and CEO of Intel. He was also on the board of directors of Google. He was born in San Francisco, California. On November 19, 2012, Otellini announced his intention to retire in May 2013.

Otellini died in his sleep on October 2, 2017 at his home in Santa Rosa, California at the age of 66.

[[Robert Yates]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Businesspeople from Charlotte, North Carolina, Engineers from North Carolina, NASCAR, Scientists from North Carolina

Robert Yates (April 19, 1943 – October 2, 2017) was an American NASCAR engine builder and former owner of the Sprint Cup Series team Yates Racing, owned since 2007 by his son Doug. He purchased the team from Harry Ranier in 1988, with driver Davey Allison. He was born in Charlotte, North Carolina.

Yates won the NASCAR Winston Cup champion (1999).

Yates died at the age of 74 on October 2, 2017 from liver cancer.

[[Fuad Masum]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Presidents of Iraq, Prime Ministers of Iraq

Muhammad Fuad Masum (محمد فؤاد معصوم Muḥammad Fūād Ma‘ṣūm; Kurdish: محەممەد فوئاد مەعسووم, born 1 January 1938) was the seventh President of Iraq from 24 July 2014 through 2 October 2019.

Masum is a veteran Iraqi Kurdish politician and was elected as President following the 2014 parliamentary election. 

Masum is the second non-Arab president of Iraq, replacing Jalal Talabani, also Kurdish, and is a friend of Talabani.

[[Michel Jouvet]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, French academics, French biologists, French physicians, Neuroscientists, People from Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Michel Valentin Marcel Jouvet (16 November 1925 – 3 October 2017) was a French neurobiologist and oneirologist. He was Emeritus Professor of Experimental Medicine at the University of Lyon. He was born in Lons-le-Saunier, Jura, France. Jouvet was the researcher who first developed the analeptic drug Modafinil. He was elected in 1977 to the French Academy of Sciences. He developed the idea and term of REM sleep.

Jouvet died in Lyon, France on 3 October 2017 at the age of 91.

[[Oneirology]]

CATEGORIES: Sleep, Psychology

Oneirology (ɒ; from Greek ὄνειρον, oneiron, "dream"; and -λογία, -logia, "the study of") is the scientific study of dreams.  

Current research seeks connections between dreaming and current knowledge about how the brain works, as well as understanding of how the brain works during dreaming as pertains to memory formation and mental disorders. The study of oneirology can mean from dream interpretation in that the aim is to quantitatively study the process of dreams instead of analyzing the meaning behind them.

Oneirology is about dreams and how they work. Most dreams happen in the REM eye movement phase of their sleep. Dreams can have a good chance of coming true. Lucid dreaming is when the dreamer gains some control over their dream.

[[Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Hungarian scientists, Psychologists

Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi (ˈ, Csíkszentmihályi Mihály, ˈt͡ʃiːksɛntmihaːji ˈmihaːj; born 29 September 1934) is a Hungarian psychologist. He is a known because of his work in the psychological concept of flow, a highly focused mental state. He is the Distinguished Professor of Psychology and Management at Claremont Graduate University.  

He is the former head of the department of psychology at the University of Chicago and of the department of sociology and anthropology at Lake Forest College.

[[Howard Gardner]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, American psychologists, American educators, Scientists from Pennsylvania, People from Scranton, Pennsylvania

Howard Earl Gardner (born July 11, 1943) is an American developmental psychologist and the John H. and Elisabeth A. Hobbs Professor of Cognition and Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education at Harvard University. He is currently the senior director of Harvard Project Zero. Since 1995, he has been the co-director of The Good Project.

Gardner was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania. He studied at Harvard College. He is married to Ellen Winner. They have a son, Benjamin.

Gardner has written hundreds of research articles and thirty books that have been translated into more than thirty languages.  He is best known for his theory of multiple intelligences, as outlined in his 1983 book Frames of Mind: The Theory of Multiple Intelligences.

[[Wilhelm von Schoen]]

CATEGORIES: 1851 births, 1933 deaths, Ambassadors of Germany, German nobility, German people of World War I, German writers, Government ministers of the German Empire, People from Worms, Germany, Politicians from Rhineland-Palatinate

Wilhelm Eduard Freiherr von Schoen (June 3, 1851 in Worms - April 24, 1933 in Berchtesgaden) was a German diplomat and politician.

Von Schoen was ambassador in Saint Petersburg and Paris. He handed the declaration of war to the French in 1914.

From 1907 to 1910 he was Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Von Schoen wrote several non-fiction books, among others about World War I.

He died in the German Alps at the age of 81.

[[Theobald von Bethmann Hollweg]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1921 deaths, Chancellors of the German Empire, Civil servants, Deaths from pneumonia, German autobiographers, German nobility, German people of World War I, Government ministers of the German Empire, Members of the Reichstag (German Empire), People from Prussia, Politicians from Brandenburg, Prussian politicians, Vice Chancellors of Germany

Theobald Theodor Friedrich Alfred von Bethmann Hollweg (November 29, 1856 in Hohenfinow (nowadays in Brandenburg) - January 1, 1921 in the same place) was a German independent politician. He was Reich Chancellor (Reichskanzler) of the German Empire during the greatest part of World War I.

Von Bethmann Holweg studied law at the University of Strasbourg, Leipzig University and the Humboldt-University of Berlin. He started working in the civil service of Prussia in 1882. He became president of the Province of Brandenburg in 1899. He was twice Minister of the Interior: of Prussia from 1905 to 1907, and of the German Empire from 1907 to 1909. He was also Vice Chancellor of Germany from 1907 to 1909.

He became Reich Chancellor in July 1909, succeeding Bernhard von Bülow. Before the war he tried in vain to improve relations with the United Kingdom. During the war he unsuccessfully opposed the launching of the U-boat warfare without any restrictions in March 1917. Because of peace efforts of the Reichstag he resigned in July 1917, and was succeeded by Georg Michaelis.

After the war he wrote his memoirs. Von Bethmann Hollweg died of pneumonia at the age of 64.

[[Arrondissements of the Savoie department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

There are 3 arrondissements in the Savoie department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs). The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into communes.

The arrondissements of the Savoie are:

[[Carman, Manitoba]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Manitoba

Carman is a town in the Pembina Valley Region of southern Manitoba. As of 2011 about 3,000 people lived there.

[[Michel Aoun]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Current national leaders, Presidents of Lebanon, Prime Ministers of Lebanon

Michel Aoun (ميشال نعيم عون, miːʃaːl ʕa.uːn; born 18 February 1935) is a Lebanese politician. He is the 17th and current President of Lebanon. He was elected president on 31 October 2016 on the 46th electoral session of the Lebanese parliament, breaking a 29-month deadlock. He is a Maronite Christian and the founder of the Free Patriotic Movement.

[[Jesús Mosterín]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2017 deaths, Spanish writers, Philosophers, People from Bilbao

Jesús Mosterín (1941 – 4 October 2017) was a Spanish philosopher and a thinker of broad spectrum, often at the frontier between science and philosophy. He was born in Bilbao, Spain. His works are based off Bertrand Russell’s History of Western Philosophy, whose foreword he composed, Some of the books of the series are devoted, for example, to Archaic thought, Aristotle and the philosophy of India. 

[[Chittani Ramachandra Hegde]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Deaths from pneumonia, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Indian artists, Indian dancers

Chittani Ramachandra Hegde (1 January 1933 – 3 October 2017) was an Indian artist. He was one of the most popular Yakshagana artiste from Honnavara, Uttara Kannada, Karnataka (his birthplace). He was awarded with Padma Shri award in 2012. His career lasted until his death in 2017. Hegde was the first artist performing Yakshagana, to receive Padmashri award and he dedicated the award to "Yakshagana".

Hegde died of a stroke complicated by pneumonia at a hospital in Mumbai, India on 3 October 2017 at the age of 84.

[[Davoud Ahmadinejad]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Iranian Muslims, Iranian politicians

Davoud Ahmadinejad (13 March 1950 – 4 October 2017) was an Iranian politician and older brother of former Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Parvin Ahmadinejad. He was born in Aradan, Iran.

After the election of his brother as president in 2005, he was appointed as the head of the Presidential Inspection Commission.

In 2013, Ahmadinejad ran for President of Iran in the presidential election in 2013, but withdrew before the election was held. 

On 4 October 2017, Ahmadinejad died in Tehran of a heart attack at the age of 67.

[[Arrondissement of Albertville]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Albertville is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Savoie département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Albertville.

[[Vanaheimr]]

CATEGORIES: Places in Norse mythology

In Norse mythology, Vanaheimr (Old Norse for "home of the Vanir") is one of the Nine Worlds and home of the Vanir. The Vanir are the gods of fertility, wisdom, and the ability to see the future.

Vanaheimr is described in the Poetic Edda; which was put together in the 13th century from earlier stories. The Prose Edda and Heimskringla were bot written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson. In the Poetic Edda and the Prose Edda, Vanaheimr is said to be the location where the Van god Njörðr was raised. In Norse cosmology, Vanaheimr is considered one of the Nine Worlds.

[[Álfheimr]]

CATEGORIES: Places in Norse mythology

Alfheim is a place in Norse mythology. It is the home of the Light Elves.

[[Bradford Bishop]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, American murderers, Criminals from California, People from Pasadena, California

William Bradford Bishop Jr. (born August 1, 1936) is a former United States Foreign Service officer. He has been a fugitive from justice since allegedly killing five members of his family in 1976. On April 10, 2014, the FBI placed him on the list of its Ten Most Wanted Fugitives.

His last posting, which began in 1974, was at State Department Headquarters in Washington, D.C. as an Assistant Chief in the Division of Special Activities and Commercial Treaties.

Bishop was born in Pasadena, California. He studied at UCLA and at Yale University.

In 1976, after getting upset for not getting a work promotion, Bishop bought a sledgehammer and a shovel and murdered his wife and three children as they slept at their home in Bethesda, Maryland. With the bodies loaded into the station wagon, Bishop allegedly drove 275, about a six-hour drive, to a densely wooded swamp off North Carolina Highway 94, about 5 south of Columbia, North Carolina. He would later burn the bodies and bury them in near the swamp.

Bishop has been spotted several placed in Europe by former State Department employees in Italy, Stockholm and in Switzerland.

In 2011, it was believed that Bishop died in Hong Kong and later in France, these proved to be false. In 2014, the FBI exhumed the body of an Alabama man who was killed in a road accident in 1981, believing he was Bishop. After DNA of the man was tested it was revealed the dead man was not Bishop and that he remains alive.

[[Exhumation]]

CATEGORIES: Death customs

Exhumation is the act of digging up, especially a corpse. This is most often done to relocate a body to a different burial spot. 

Families may make this decision to locate the deceased in a more pertinent or convenient place. In shared family burial sites (e.g. a married couple), if the previously deceased person has been buried for an insufficient period of time the second body may be buried elsewhere until it is safe to move it to the requested grave. 

In most jurisdictions a legal exhumation usually requires a court order or permission by the next of kin of the deceased. Also in many countries permits are required by some governing agency like the board of health in order to legally conduct a disinterment.

[[Arrondissement of Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Savoie département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and a subprefecture of the department, is the city of Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne.

[[Arrondissement of Chambéry]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

The arrondissement of Chambéry is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Savoie département, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its capital, and the prefecture of the department, is the city of Chambéry.

[[Electron hole]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

An electron hole (often simply called a hole) is the absence or lack of an electron where an electron would normally be in an atom. Because electrons are negative and their charges are balanced by the positive protons, electron holes are positive in charge. Electron holes are not particles, they are classified as quasiparticles. Electron holes are different to positrons, which are the antiparticle to the electron. When electrons change energy levels, they leave an electron hole in their place. 

[[Exciton]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

An exciton is an electron bound to an electron hole. It is neutrally charged (because the negative charge of the electron is balanced by the positive charge of the electron hole) and is a quasiparticle.

[[Charles J. Pedersen]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1989 deaths, American chemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Busan, People from Rutherford, New Jersey, Scientists from New Jersey

Charles John Pedersen (October 3, 1904  – October 26, 1989) was a American chemist. He received the 1987 Nobel Prize in Chemistry together with Donald James Cram and Jean-Marie Lehn. He specialized in organic chemistry.

Pedersen had a Norwegian father and a Japanese mother. He was born in Busan, Korea and died in Salem, New Jersey.

[[John R. Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2017 deaths, American human rights activists, Cancer deaths in California, Politicians from Seattle, Washington, Politicians from New York City, United States representatives from Washington, US Republican Party politicians

John Ripin Miller (May 23, 1938 – October 4, 2017) was an American politician. He was born in New York City.

Miller was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1985 to 1993. He represented the Washington of Washington as a Republican. While in Congress he championed human rights in the Soviet Union, China and South Africa.

Miller served as the director, Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons for the U.S. State Department, with the rank of Ambassador-at-Large from 2002 through 2006 during the George W. Bush administration.

Miller died of cancer on October 4, 2017 in Corte Madera, California at the age of 79.

[[Don J. Wright]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American physicians, Politicians from Texas

Don J. Wright is an American physician and government official. He is the current acting United States Secretary of Health and Human Services. Wright was designated by Donald Trump after his predecessor, Tom Price, resigned on September 29, 2017.

From 2003 to 2007, Wright was Director of the Office of Occupational Medicine for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). 

Wright was replaced by Eric Hargan as the new acting Health Secretary by President Trump on October 10, 2017.

Wright started at HHS in 2007, as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health. In 2009, he became Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health Care Quality, and in 2012, he was named Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health and Director of the Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion.

[[Cold as Ice]]

CATEGORIES: Rock songs, Pop songs, 1977 songs

"Cold as Ice" is a 1977 pop rock song. The song is from music group Foreigner. The lyrics for the song speak of a man accusing a woman of spoiling an intimate relationship.

The song peaked at #6 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100. 

American rapper Kanye West used a sample for his song "Cold". Rapper B.o.B sampled the chorus of the song for his song "Cold as Ice" in 2010.

A cover version was heard during a commercial for Wendy's in Super Bowl LI in 2017.

[[Earlsfield]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Wandsworth

Earlsfield is an area in the London Borough of Wandsworth, London, England.

[[Friedrich von Löffelholz]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2017 deaths, German cyclists, Sportspeople from Bavaria, People from Nuremberg

Friedrich von Löffelholz (7 March 1953 – 2 October 2017) was a German cyclist. He was born in Nuremberg, Germany. He competed in the team time trial event at the 1976 Summer Olympics.

Von Löffelholz died on October 2, 2017 at the age of 62.

[[Sevgein]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Sevgein is a former municipality of the district of Surselva in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Sevgein, Castrisch, Ilanz, Ladir, Luven, Pitasch, Riein, Ruschein, Schnaus, Duvin, Pigniu, Rueun and Siat merged into the new municipality of Ilanz/Glion.

[[North Delhi]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Delhi

North Delhi is an administrative district of the National Capital Territory of Delhi in India.

North Delhi is bounded by the Yamuna River on the east, and by the districts of North West Delhi to the north and west, West Delhi to the southwest, Central Delhi to the south,  and North East Delhi to the east across the Yamuna.

Administratively, the district is divided into three subdivisions, Sadar Bazar, Kotwali, and  Civil Lines.

[[North West Delhi]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Delhi

North West Delhi is an administrative district of the National Capital Territory of Delhi in India.

[[West Delhi]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Delhi

West Delhi is an administrative district of the National Capital Territory of Delhi in India. It has an area of 129 km², with a population density of nearly 14,000 persons per km². Administratively, the district is divided into three subdivisions, Patel Nagar, Rajouri Garden, and Punjabi Bagh. Major residential and commercial areas of Delhi like Janakpuri and Tilak Nagar are located in West Delhi.

[[Central Delhi]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Delhi

Central Delhi is an administrative district of the National Capital Territory of Delhi, India.

It is bounded by the Yamuna River on the east, and by the districts of North Delhi to the north, West Delhi and South West Delhi to the west, New Delhi to the south, and East Delhi to the east across the Yamuna..

It has a population of 644,005 (2001 census), and an area of 25, with a population density of 25,759 persons per km².

Central Delhi houses the central business district and highrises. It includes Shahjahanabad (Old Delhi) which served as capital of the Mughal Empire, and is home to the monuments like the Delhi Fort and the Jama Masjid, Delhi's principal mosque.

Administratively, the district is divided into two subdivisions, Darya Ganj, & Pahar Ganj.

[[South Delhi]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Delhi

South Delhi is an administrative district of the National Capital Territory of Delhi in India.

It is bounded by the Yamuna River to the east, the districts of New Delhi to the north, Faridabad District of Haryana state to the southeast, Gurgaon District of Haryana to the southwest, and South West Delhi to the west.

It has a population of 2,258,367 (2001 census), and an area of 250, with a population density of 9,034 persons per km² (23,397 persons per mi²).

Administratively, the district is divided into three subdivisions, Saket, Hauz Khas, and Mehrauli.

The division shown on the map for South Dehli is only administrative. For the common citizen, broadly speaking Delhi is vaguely ring-like, having five regions, namely North, West, South, East and Central. The usage of the term South Delhi in day-to-day life expands from Delhi's IGI Airport in the South West to the river Yamuna in the South East. This is a region going into the administrative South West Delhi district.

[[South West Delhi]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Delhi

South West Delhi is one of the eleven administrative districts of the National Capital Territory of Delhi,

India. The Subcity of Dwarka serves as the administrative headquarters of South West Delhi.

It is bounded by the districts of West Delhi to the north, Central Delhi to the northeast, New Delhi and South Delhi to the east, Gurgaon District of Haryana state to the south, and Jhajjar District of Haryana to the west. Rajbir Yadav from Chhawla Block Congress Committee is Alderman of South Delhi District of MCD.

It has a population of 2,292,363 (2011 census), and an area of 420 km², with a population density of  5,445 inhabitants per square kilometre. It is the fourth most populous district in Delhi.

Administratively, the district is divided into three subdivisions, Dwarka, Najafgarh and Kapas Hera.

[[South East Delhi district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Delhi

South East Delhi is a revenue district of Delhi, India. Defence Colony, Kalkaji and Sarita Vihar are part of this district.

This district is a part of South Delhi Lok Sabha constituency.

[[North East Delhi]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Delhi

North East Delhi is one of the eleven administrative districts of Delhi, India. The District was established in 1997.

North East Delhi borders Yamuna River on the west, Ghaziabad District to the north and east, East Delhi to the south, and North Delhi to the west across the Yamuna. This area is densely populated with very slow development as compared to other districts. No development took place here even during Commonwealth Games makeover of other districts of Delhi. For public transport people are totally dependent upon overloaded sharing Autos. Half of the roads are covered by street hawkers. Exits connecting this place districts (Shastri Park and Wazirabad) with other parts are fully choked in peak hours.

[[East Delhi]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Delhi

East Delhi (a.k.a. Trans Yamuna) is an administrative district of the National Capital Territory of Delhi, India.

It is bounded by the Yamuna River on the west, North East Delhi to the north, Ghaziabad District of Uttar Pradesh state to the east, and Gautam Buddha Nagar District of Uttar Pradesh to the south.

It has a population of 1,448,770 (2001 census) and an area of 64 km², with a population density of 22,638 persons per km².

Administratively, the district is divided into three subdivisions: Gandhi Nagar, Preet Vihar, and Shahdara

[[Daman district, India]]

CATEGORIES: Daman and Diu

Daman district is one of the two districts of the union territory of Daman and Diu on the western coast of India. 

It is surrounded by Valsad District of Gujarat state on the north, east and south and the Persian Gulf to the west. The district has an area of 72, and a population of 191,173 at the 2011 census, an increase of 69.256% from the preceding 2001 Census.

Daman lies at the mouth of the Daman Ganga River.  Major industries have units here. The closest railway station is Vapi (7 km). It is also famous for its beach, Portuguese colonial architecture, churches, and for the scenic beauty in the twin towns of Nani-Daman and Moti-Daman, which lie opposite each other across the Daman Ganga.

The district is infamous for having the least balanced sex ratio in the country.  The chief occupation has been fishing. The city of Surat lies to the north, and Mumbai lies approximately 160 km (100 mi) south of Daman on the Arabian Sea coast in Maharashtra state.

[[Nicobar district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands

Nicobar district is one of three districts in the Indian Union Territory (UT) of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The district's administrative territory consists of all of the Nicobar Islands, which are located in the Indian Ocean (Bay of Bengal, bordering with the Andaman Sea). The headquarters of the district is located on the island of Car Nicobar.

The district administration is headed by a Deputy Commissioner, who in turn reports into the Lieutenant Governor of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.

It is the fifth least populous district in the country (out of 640).

[[North and Middle Andaman district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands

North and Middle Andaman district is one of the 3 districts of the Indian Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal. Mayabunder town is the district headquarters. The area covered by this district is 3251.85 km2.

[[Johnson County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Wyoming counties, 1881 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Wyoming Territory

Johnson County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. The population was 8,569 as of the 2010 census. The county seat is Buffalo. The only other incorporated territory in the county is Kaycee.

[[South Andaman district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands

South Andaman district is one of the 3 districts of the Indian Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal. Port Blair town, the capital of the Union Territory is the district headquarters. The area covered by this district is 2980 km².

[[Teton County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in Wyoming, 1922 establishments in the United States, Wyoming counties

Teton County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 census, 21,294 people lived there. Its county seat is Jackson.

[[North Sikkim district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sikkim

North Sikkim is a district of the Indian state of Sikkim. The district headquarters is Mangan. It is the seventh least populous district in the country (out of 640).

[[South Sikkim district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sikkim

South Sikkim  is a district of the Indian state of Sikkim. The capital is Namchi.

[[West Sikkim district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sikkim

West Sikkim is a district of the 

Indian state of Sikkim. The capital is Geyzing. It is also known as Gyalshing. The district is a favourite with trekkers due to the high elevations. Other important towns include Pelling and Yuksom.

[[East Sikkim district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sikkim

East Sikkim is one of the four administrative districts of the Indian state of Sikkim. Geographically, East Sikkim occupies the south-east corner of the state. The capital of East Sikkim is Gangtok, which is also the state capital. It is the hub of all administrative activity in the state.

The civilian region is administered by a district collector, appointed by the Union Government and the military area by a Major General. As of 2011 it is the most populous of the four districts of Sikkim.

[[Arnold Nieberding]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1909 deaths, Civil servants, Government ministers of the German Empire, Jurists, People from former German territories, People from Prussia

Rudolf Arnold Nieberding (May 4, 1838 in Konitz, West Prussia - October 10, 1912 in Berlin) was a German jurist and politician.

Nieberding studied law at the University of Breslau, the University of Heidelberg and the Humboldt-University of Berlin.

He started to work in the civil service of Prussia in 1861, followed by the civil service of the German Empire in 1872.

He was Minister of Justice of the German Empire from 1893 to 1909.

He died at the age of 74 in 1912.

[[Ancient Corinth]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek cities

Corinth is at a critical place in the Peloponnese, a city-state on the Isthmus of Corinth. Ancient Corinth was one of the largest and most important cities of Ancient Greece, with a population of 90,000 in 400 BC. The Romans demolished Corinth in 146 BC, built a new city in its place in 44 BC, and later made it the provincial capital of Greece.

[[Luzein]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Luzein is a municipality of the district of Prättigau/Davos in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. In 2016 the former municipality of St. Antönien merged into the municipality of Luzein.

[[Maladers]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Maladers was a municipality in Plessur in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. On 1 January 2020 the municipality Maladers became part of Chur.

[[St. Peter, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

St. Peter (Son Peder) is a former municipality of the district of Plessur in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2008 the former municipalities of St. Peter and Pagig merged into the new municipality of St. Peter-Pagig.

[[Pagig]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden

Pagig (Pagiai) is a former municipality of the district of Plessur in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

On 1 January 2008 the former municipalities of Pagig and St. Peter merged into the new municipality of St. Peter-Pagig.

[[St. Peter-Pagig]]

CATEGORIES: St. Peter-Pagig, 2008 establishments in Switzerland, 2013 disestablishments in Switzerland, Former municipalities of Graubünden

St. Peter-Pagig is a former municipality of the district of Plessur in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

[[Portein]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Graubünden, Villages in Graubünden

Portein (Purtagn) was a municipality in Hinterrhein in the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland.

On 1 January 2010 the former municipalities of Cazis, Portein, Präz, Sarn and Tartar joined together to become the municipality of Cazis.

[[Samedan]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Graubünden

Samedan is a municipality of the district Maloja in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.

Engadin Airport is in the municipality.

[[Pratteln]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Basel-Landschaft, Cities in Switzerland

Pratteln (Swiss German: Brattele) is a city of the district of Liestal in the canton of Basel-Landschaft in Switzerland.

The municipality is located on the A3 motorway.

[[Montreuil]]

Montreuil can mean:

[[Kœtzingue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Kœtzingue is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department in the east of France.

[[Alternate ending]]

CATEGORIES: Movie industry

Alternate ending is a term used (usually in movies) to describe the ending of a story that was planned or debated but ultimately unused in favor of the actual ending. Generally, alternative endings are considered to have no bearing on the canonical narrative. On the internet, amateurs may make their own alternative endings.

[[Timothy F. Murphy]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, United States representatives from Pennsylvania, Politicians from Cleveland, Ohio, US Republican Party politicians

Timothy Francis Murphy (born September 11, 1952) was the U.S. Representative for PA, serving from 2003 until his resignation in October 2017. He is a member of the Republican Party. He previously served in the Pennsylvania Senate. He is a commander in the United States Navy Reserve.

In October 2017, Murphy announced that he would not seek re-election in 2018 due to revelations that during an affair he had urged his mistress to have an abortion despite his public anti-abortion stance. On October 5, House Speaker Paul Ryan’s Office announced Murphy would step down on October 21.

[[Rob Quist]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American singer-songwriters, American guitarists, American progressives, Politicians from Montana, Writers from Montana, Singers from Montana, Musicians from Montana, US Democratic Party politicians

Robert Ernest Quist (born January 5, 1948) is an American singer, instrumentalist (playing guitar and banjo), songwriter, and politician. 

His songs have been recorded by artists Michael Martin Murphey and Loretta Lynn among others.  He is known as a musical and cultural ambassador for the state of Montana and was appointed to the Montana Arts Council by Governor Brian Schweitzer. He has toured  throughout the United States, Canada, and Japan. 

Quist was the Democratic nominee for Montana's House seat in the 2017 special election, but lost the election to Greg Gianforte.

[[Lance Russell]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from fractured hip, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Sportspeople from Tennessee

Lance Russell (March 18, 1926 – October 3, 2017) was a professional wrestling announcer and commentator from 1959 to 1997. He was born in Tennessee.

His primary announcing partner was Dave Brown. He was included in the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA)'s Hall of Fame and Hall of Heroes. 

In addition, he was in the United States Wrestling Association's Memphis Wrestling Hall of Fame and Wrestling Observer Newsletter's Hall of Fame.

Russell died in Memphis, Tennessee on October 3, 2017 from complications of a broken hip caused by a fall at the age of 91.

[[Alvin Ailey]]

CATEGORIES: American choreographers, LGBT African Americans, 1931 births, 1989 deaths, LGBT people from Texas

Alvin Ailey (5 January 1931 – 1 December 1989) was an American ballet dancer and choreographer. He was born in Rogers, Texas.

[[Beverly Grove, Los Angeles]]

CATEGORIES: Neighborhoods of Los Angeles

Beverly Grove is a small neighborhood  in the central region of the City of Los Angeles, California.

The neighborhood has an area of 1.65-square-miles. As of 2000, about 21,000 people lived there. The ZIP codes for Beverly Grove are 90046 and 90048.

[[Giorgio Pressburger]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2017 deaths, Italian writers, Hungarian novelists, People from Budapest

Giorgio Pressburger (April 21, 1937 – October 5, 2017) was an Hungarian-born Italian writer of novels and short stories. He was born in Budapest.

Pressburger settled in Italy in 1956, where he worked as a movie and theatre director. He later became the Director of the Institute of Italian Culture in Hungary.

His book The Law of White Spaces was shortlisted for the Independent Foreign Fiction Award in 1992. His other works include the novel Teeth and Spies and the short story collection Snow and Guilt.

