[[Appomattox Court House]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War

Appomattox Court House is a place in Virginia (It is now called Appomattox, Virginia).  It is where General Robert E. Lee of the Confederate Army surrendered to Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army on April 9, 1865, ending the American Civil War.  Though the place is called Appomattox Court House, the surrender took place at the McLean House, a private home. 

[[Base isolation]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering

Base isolation is a collection of a building’s units resting on its foundation to provide separation of the building from shaking ground thus improving seismic performance.

[[Shōō (Kamakura period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1288 establishments, 13th-century establishments in Japan, 1293 disestablishments, 13th century disestablishments in Japan

Shōō, also spelled as Shō-ō, was a Japanese era name after Kōan and before Einin.  The period started in April 1288 and ended in August 1293.  During this time, the emperor was Fushimi-tennō.

[[Vibration control]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering, Mechanical vibrations

In earthquake engineering, vibration control is a set of technical means for decreasing seismic loads and improving seismic performance of building structures.

[[Telephone card]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone

A telephone card, calling card or phone card for short, is a small plastic card that is used to pay for telephone calls. They usually hold a set value of credit. Some cards can be recharged with more credit.

[[Vera Menchik]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1944 deaths, British chess players, Czech people, Sportspeople from Moscow

[[Alexandra Kosteniuk]]

CATEGORIES: Russian chess players, 1984 births, Living people, Chess grandmasters

Alexandra Kosteniuk (born Perm, Volga, 23 April 1984) is a Russian chess Grandmaster and former Women's World Chess Champion. She lost her title in 2010.

Alexandra is married, and lives with her husband and daughter in Key Biscayne, Miami, Florida.

Kosteniuk is now ranked 31st in the current FIDE rating list for women. She is no longer playing regularly. The highest rated woman, Judit Polgar (Hungary), never plays in female events. The second highest rated woman is Humpy Koneru (India); she has never won the women's world championship.

[[King's Sutton railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Trains, Northamptonshire, Railway stations in England

King's Sutton railway station serves the village of King's Sutton in Northamptonshire, England.  It is also the nearest railway station to the town of Brackley. It was opened on 1 December 1873 by the Great Western Railway. The station is managed by Chiltern Railways, who provide services along with First Great Western. It was heavily renovated in 2009, with new fencing, a new shelter and a bridge being added to it.

[[Akbash Dog]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The Akbash Dog is a large breed (type) of dog which comes from Turkey. It has a white coat of fur. It was bred to protect sheep in the field from thieves and predators. While this dog has been used for this job in Turkey for many hundreds of years, it is not often found outside of Turkey. The Akbash Dog is closely related to other large, white dogs used to protect sheep, such as the Komondor and the Aidi.

[[Clapping]]

CATEGORIES: Sound

Clapping is when you hit your hands together which makes a sound. The harder you hit, the louder the sound, the softer you hit, less the sound.

If hitting by means of hand to hand contact it will make a different sound than if you were to clap against another object, say, your leg. 

[[Strung Out]]

CATEGORIES: American punk bands, Musical groups from California, Simi Valley, California

Strung Out is a punk rock band from Simi Valley, California, United States. They formed in 1992. They are known mostly for their musical style, which has both aspects of punk rock and heavy metal to make their main sound. They have made seven albums on Fat Wreck Chords and appeared on many compilations and skate/surf videos. They have played on the Warped Tour and continue to tour around the world.

[[Reading and Leeds Festivals]]

CATEGORIES: Music festivals in England

The Reading and Leeds Festivals are two yearly music festivals. They take place in Reading and Leeds in the United Kingdom. They are run by Festival Republic (itself owned by Live Nation and MCD). The festivals take place one at a time on the Friday, Saturday and Sunday. They take place on the August of bank holiday weekend. They share the same bill. Between 1998 and 2007, the two festivals were known as the "Carling Weekend", until parting ways with their sponsor Carling in November 2007.

[[Circa Survive]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, musical groups from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 2004 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Pennsylvania

Circa Survive is a rock band from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. They formed in 2004. The band has vocalist Anthony Green. He was a singer of Saosin and members of the now-defunct This Day Forward.

Their first album, Juturna, was released on April 19, 2005 by Equal Vision Records, which got mixed reviews. However their second album, On Letting Go, released on May 29, 2007, garnered big reviewer acclaim. Their upcoming album, Blue Sky Noise, will be released on April 20, 2010 on Atlantic Records as the band has finished their term with Equal Vision Records. 

[[The Blind Side (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 drama movies, 2000s biographical movies, 2000s sports drama movies, Academy Award winning movies, American biographical movies, American sports drama movies, English-language movies, Memphis, Tennessee, Movies based on books, Warner Bros. movies

The Blind Side is a 2009 American drama sports movie directed by John Lee Hancock. It is based on the novel The Blind Side: Evolution of a Game, which was written by Michael Lewis. It stars Sandra Bullock, Tim McGraw, Quinton Aaron, and Kathy Bates.

The movie is based on a true story. The story follows football player Michael Oher's life, from growing up in a very poor neighborhood, to being adopted by a rich family, and then going to play for Ole Miss and eventually the Baltimore Ravens.

Bullock won an Academy Award for Best Actress, Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture Drama and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role.

[[Lahaul and Spiti district]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in India, Himachal Pradesh

The district of Lahaul-Spiti in the Indian State of Himachal Pradesh consists of the two formerly separate districts of Lahaul and Spiti.

[[Presidency division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of West Bengal

Presidency Division is a division in the Indian state of West Bengal. It has 5 districts:

[[Burdwan division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of West Bengal

Burdwan Division is a division in the Indian state of West Bengal. It consists of 4 districts:

[[List of presidents of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the United States, Lists of legislative speakers

This list includes all people who have been sworn as President of the United States. 

The bottom row includes Presidents by time in office.

[[Jalpaiguri division]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of West Bengal

Jalpaiguri Division is a division in the Indian state of West Bengal. It consists of 5 districts:

[[History of chess]]

CATEGORIES: Chess

The history of chess goes back almost 1500 years. The game originated in northern India in the 6th century AD and spread to Persia. When the Arabs conquered Persia, chess was taken up by the Muslim world and subsequently, through the Moorish conquest of Spain, spread to Southern Europe. But in early Russia, the game came directly from the Khanates (muslim territories) to the south.

In Europe, the moves of the pieces changed in the 15th century. The modern game starts with these changes. In the second half of the 19th century, modern tournament play began. Chess clocks were first used in 1883, and the first world chess championship was held in 1886. The 20th century saw advances in chess theory, and the establishment of the World Chess Federation (FIDE). Chess engines (programs that play chess), and chess data bases became important.

[[Shani]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu mythology

Shani is one of the Navagraha  which are the nine main celestial beings in Hindu astrology, or Jyotiṣa. Shani is embodied in the planet Saturn. Shani is the Lord of Saturday; the word Shani also denotes the seventh day or Saturday in most Indian languages.

[[Wolfgang Wagner]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2010 deaths, German musical entertainers, Opera

Wolfgang Wagner (born 30 August 1919 - 21 March 2010) was a German opera director.  He was the grandson of the opera composer Richard Wagner and great-grandson of the composer Franz Liszt.  For 42 years he was director of the Bayreuth Festival, which was created by Richard Wagner for the performances of his operas.  At first he was director together with his brother Wieland.  After Wieland died he continued to be director until he retired in 2008.  He tried to get rid of the festival’s Nazi past, and put on productions which were very symbolic: using lighting effects instead of complicated scenery and heavy costumes.

[[American Foxhound]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The American Foxhound is a kind of dog breed. The foxhound came from the United States. It is a type of hound.

[[Mu isamaa, mu õnn ja rõõm]]

CATEGORIES: Estonia, National anthems

"Mu isamaa, mu õnn ja rõõm" (pron. ˈisɑ.mɑː mu ˈɤnʲ jɑ ˈrɤːm, "moo EE-sah-mah moo UHN yah RUHM"; en. 'My Fatherland, My Happiness and Joy') is the incipit of the national anthem of Estonia, first adopted in 1920.

This song has been around since the 19th century; its lyrics (words) were written in 1869 by Estonian poet Johann Voldemar Jannsen, and its melody—the same one used in Finland's national anthem "Maamme"—was composed in 1848 by Friedrich Pacius.

When the Soviets took control of Estonia in 1940, this anthem was banned, then four years later when the small Baltic country became part of the Soviet Union, a regional Soviet anthem was adopted. In May 1990, shortly before the Soviet Union fell, the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic was renamed the "Republic of Estonia" and this anthem was adopted again.

[[V sign]]

CATEGORIES: Peace, Symbols, Non-verbal communication

The V sign is a hand gesture that means victory or peace.  It is made by raising the first and second fingers on the hand, and putting down the other fingers.  

[[Emperor Ankō]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Ankō was the 20th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Ankō to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Ankō-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations. 

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Building code]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures, Earthquake engineering

Building code is a publishing company that puts forth a set of rules on a building design, construction, testing, inspections, and maintenance to protect public health, safety and welfare. Building codes are adopted and enforced by the government, who may inspect buildings to make sure they follow the rules.

A building code may provide rules for many different things and is influenced by materials manufacturers, firefighters, and building officials. The building may need to follow rules about providing parking or affecting traffic. There will be rules about making the building safe during disasters, such as fires, earthquakes, and tornadoes.

The rules used on a specific building may be very different depending on where the building is and what it is used for. For example, a house will have extra rules about making sure people can live there, while a hotel will have extra rules about fire exits. Many public buildings have a "maximum occupancy" for some rooms, which is how many people may be allowed into that room at once.

[[Supply-side economics]]

CATEGORIES: Economic policy, Presidency of Ronald Reagan

Supply-side economics or trickle-down economics is a theory that if taxes were cut on the richest people in society, rich people would use their extra money to invest in the economy, but if taxes were increased, the wealthy would leave the country and invest somewhere else where the tax rates are lower.  People who support supply-side economics believe that taxes punished productivity and if they were lowered, people would produce more goods and services.  Many supporters of supply-side economics also support things such as limited government spending, low inflation, and regulating the economy less.

Economist Arthur Laffer supported supply-side economics with a theory called a Laffer Curve.  The theory stated that government will get no money if taxes were too high—nobody would pay them—and that the government would not get enough money if taxes were too low.  The theory also stated that if taxes were too high, the economy would be less productive and it would give the government less money and that if taxes were low, the economy would be productive and the government would get more money. 

Supply-side economics was used while Ronald Reagan was president during the 1980's.  Income taxes on the wealthiest Americans were cut from 70% to 50% to 28% during his two terms.  Also, capital gains taxes were cut.  Supporters of supply-side economics mention that those tax cuts have resulted in economic recovery during the 1980's and the strong economic boom in the 1990's and first decade of the 21st century.

Critics of supply-side economics say that the wealthy gain a lot of money in the hope that a very small amount of it will trickle down to the poor, and they call it voodoo economics.  Many critics say that supply-side economic policies are bad because they result in a bigger gap between the rich and the poor.  They also criticize that the reduction in taxes results in the cutting of programs for the poor people who need it.  Other critics point out that large supply-cuts tax cuts,  in combination with increases in military spending, has resulted in the government being in a large amount of debt.

[[Vaan]]

CATEGORIES: Video game characters, Final Fantasy

Vaan is a fake character in the Final Fantasy series. He is also the main character of Final Fantasy XII. 

[[Royal Canadian Mounted Police]]

CATEGORIES: Government agencies of Canada, Law enforcement agencies

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), (Gendarmerie royale du Canada (GRC)), is the national police force of Canada. The force is also called the Mounties.

[[Vielle]]

CATEGORIES: String instruments

The vielle is a bowed stringed instrument. It is a European instrument. It was used in the Medieval period. It is similar to a violin. It has a longer and deeper body than the violin. The vielle was also called a fidel or a viuola. Vielle is the French name for the instrument. It was one of the most popular instruments of the Medieval period. The vielle possibly came from the lira. The lira is a Byzantine bowed instrument. It is closely related to the Rebab. The Rebab is an Arab bowed instrument.

[[Metropolitan Museum of Art]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in New York City, Art museums in the United States, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, 1870 establishments in New York (state)

The Metropolitan Museum of Art is an art museum. It is sometimes called The Met. It is found on the eastern edge of Central Park in New York City. It has a collection of more than two million works of art.

The main building is one of the world's largest art galleries, at about 2000000 in area. The Met is the most popular art museum in the United States with more than 5 million visitors each year. There is also a much smaller second location, the Cloisters. The Cloisters museum and gardens, which opened to the public in 1938, is a branch of the Museum. It is located in Inwood, in northern Manhattan. It has medieval art. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, which includes its Main Building on Fifth Avenue and the Cloisters in northern Manhattan, dates back to 1866.

People are asked to donate to the museum upon admission. However, one can choose not to donate. The museum suggests a $25 donation per person.

[[Stéphane Grappelli]]

CATEGORIES: Jazz musicians, Musicians from Paris, Violinists, 1908 births, 1997 deaths

Stéphane Grappelli (26 January 1908 – 1 December 1997) was a French jazz violinist. He was born in Paris, France to a French mother and Italian father. He got into music at a young age. When he was 12 years old, he got his own violin. Later, he met Django Reinhardt. Reinhardt was a guitarist. Together, they founded the Quintette du Hot Club de France.

[[Be (disambiguation)]]

Be could mean:

[[30 Minut]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 songs

"30 Minut" (30 минут) is a song by t.A.T.u. that was first released on 200 По Встречной, and released as single in September 2001. It has an English counterpart named "30 Minutes".

[[MG]]

MG, Mg, or mg and variants may mean:

[[He (disambiguation)]]

He could mean:

[[Sc]]

Sc can mean the things below:

[[Einin]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras

Einin was a Japanese era name after Shōō and before Shōan.  This period started in August 1293 and ended in April 1299. During this time, the emperors were Fushimi-tennō and Go-Fushimi-tennō. 

[[ICarly]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series, Nickelodeon television series, 2010s American sitcoms, English-language television programs

iCarly is an American teen sitcom with Miranda Cosgrove, Jennette McCurdy, Nathan Kress , Jerry Trainor and Noah Munck. A revivial was created on June 17, 2021. Jennette McCurdy is not in the revival.

[[Scouting for Girls]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 establishments in England, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, British pop rock bands, English pop music groups, English rock bands, Musical groups established in 2005, Musical groups from London, Musical trios

Scouting for Girls are a British pop rock band formed in London in 2005 by Roy Stride, Greg Churchouse and Peter Ellard. Stride met Ellard at Cub Scouts and he then met Churchouse at school. In September 2007 Scouting for Girls released their first album Scouting for Girls. It was number one in the UK Albums Chart for two weeks.

[[Božidar Bandović]]

CATEGORIES: Football managers, Serbian people, 1969 births, Living people

Božidar Bandović (Serbian Cyrillic: Бoжидap Бaндoвић; born August 30, 1969) is a Serbian football manager and former player, currently employed by Greek club Olympiacos FC as a head coach and manager. He lead the team, with Andreas Niniadis as his assistant, after Zico left. Bandovic had also taken control of the team temporarily before Zico came as a caretaker coach after Temuri Ketsbaia was fired.

As a player, while playing for the 1991 European and World Champions Red Star Belgrade, he won one national Championship in 1994-95 and two national cups in 1993 and 1995.

He is the younger brother of another ex-Red Star footballer, Nebojša Bandović.

[[Enthronement]]

CATEGORIES: Ceremonies

An enthronement is a ceremony of inauguration, involving a person —usually a monarch or religious leader — who is formally seated for the first time upon a throne. 

The throne is seen as a symbol of authority.

This ritual is different from a coronation because there is no crown. However, the term "coronation" and the term "enthronement" are often used to mean the same thing.

[[Détente]]

CATEGORIES: International relations

Détente (pronounced day-tont) is a word that means less tension and a better relationship between two countries.

The main example of a détente was during the Cold War. In the 1970's, the United States and the Soviet Union improved relations. Both signed several treaties which made less amount of nuclear weapons each country had. During this time period, as China began to dislike the Soviet Union, the United States tried to make friends with China, giving the Soviet Union a disadvantage during the Cold War. This was often called “playing the China card.”

Détente primarily was concerned with relation between USA and USSR but other countries like China, West Germany and most of the European states also played their role in developing it. Their motives were mixed. The US proposed this because they did not want to have to go to war with USSR which would lead to all out nuclear warfare.

The literal and original use of the word, meant to undo a crossbow, the detention of the cord that launched the arrow.  Which is why this old word was so appropriate in the above description.

[[Castoreum]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Organic compounds

Castoreum is the liquid released from the castor sacs of the beaver. It is a yellowish liquid. It is mixed together with the beaver's urine. It is used to mark territory. Both male and female beavers have two castor sacs. They have two glands in two empty spaces under the skin. They are between the pelvis and the base of the tail. The castor sacs are not glands.

Today, castoreum is used to trap animals. It is used also to make perfumes. It is also used as a drug.

[[Fitzwilliam Virginal Book]]

CATEGORIES: Music media

The Fitzwilliam Virginal Book is an important source of early keyboard music from England. Its name comes from Viscount Fitzwilliam who gave the book to Cambridge University in 1816.

[[Blue Ridge Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of the United States, Appalachian Mountains

The Blue Ridge Mountains are mountains that go across the eastern United States. They go through Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and West Virginia. Its highest point is Mount Mitchell in North Carolina. The first mountain or best known mountain, is Blue Mountain in Pennsylvania.

The blue haze which covers the mountains is caused by isoprene. It is produced by the trees and other plants.

[[Mount Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of the United States, Geography of North Carolina, Appalachian Mountains

Mount Mitchell is a mountain in North Carolina. It is 6684 tall, the tallest in the Blue Ridge Mountains. The top of the mountain is the highest point in the United States east of the Black Hills in South Dakota. The mountain was named after Elisha Mitchell, a professor at the University of North Carolina, who determined its height in 1835, and fell to his death at nearby Mitchell Falls in 1857, having returned to verify his earlier measurements. The ascent of Mount Mitchell is now rather easy, since a 4.6 miles (7.4 km) road (NC 128) off the historic and scenic Blue Ridge Parkway runs nearby, and a 980-foot (300 m) trail leads through a conifer forest to the summit. The 40-foot (12 m) stone observation tower on the summit was torn down in late 2006. A new observation deck was constructed and opened to visitors in January 2009.3 Also on the summit is the tomb of Dr. Mitchell.

[[Sweet Home Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s songs

Sweet Home Alabama is a song by Southern rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd from the album Second Helping. It was released in 1974 and reached the #8 spot on the American music charts.

[[Face to Face (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American punk bands, Musical groups from California, Musical groups established in 1991, 1991 establishments in California, Musical groups disestablished in 2004, 2004 disestablishments in the United States, 2000s disestablishments in California, Musical groups established in 2008, 2008 establishments in California

Face to Face (first known as Zero Tolerance) is an American punk rock band from Victorville, California  formed in 1991 by frontman Trever Keith.

[[Geffen Records]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in New York (state), American record labels, Companies based in New York City

Geffen Records is an American record label, owned by Universal Music Group. It was made in 1980 by David Geffen. It is worked as one third of UMG's Interscope-Geffen-A&M label group.

music.

[[Fast Forward Weekly]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Canada

Fast Forward Weekly (FFWD) is a news and entertainment weekly which has news, alternative viewpoints, entertainment information, review articles and specialized advertising. It is distributed throughout Calgary, Banff and Canmore. It is owned by Great West Newspapers, LP. With an assessed readership of 70,000 upon a distributed circulation of 30,000, the paper is one of the most widely read and well-liked newspapers in Canada.

[[Seismic performance]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering

Ancient builders believed that earthquakes were a result of wrath of gods (in Greek mythology, e.g., the main "Earth-Shaker" was Poseidon) and, therefore, could not be resisted by humans.

Nowadays, the people's attitude has changed dramatically though seismic loads, sometimes, exceed ability of a structure to resist them without being broken, partially or completely. 

[[Philidor]]

CATEGORIES: 1726 births, 1795 deaths, Chess players, French composers, French writers

Philidor (François André Danican Philidor, Paris 1726 – London 1795), was probably the best chessplayer of his time, and a notable composer of light operatic music. He was born into a family of musicians who served at the French court. He became the author of a book on chess which influenced players for many years.p303p15

[[Silent majority]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A silent majority is a large group of people who support something, but choose not to express their opinions publicly.

This term was made popular by US President Richard Nixon in a speech he gave on November 3 1969, about the Vietnam War. Nixon said "And so tonight, to you, the great silent majority of my fellow Americans; I ask for your support." The opposite of the silent majority were a noisy minority, a small group of people, who Nixon said tried to get their way by holding demonstrations in the streets.

The speech on this link does not contain these words. Read it for yourself. It only references the term “Silent Majority” which had been described during his campaign in other speeches.

-Sam Molloy

[[1960 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 in the United States, United States presidential elections

The 1960 United States presidential election happened on November 8, 1960. This election was between Senator John F. Kennedy and Vice President Richard Nixon. Kennedy won the election like many people expected, but it was a much closer election than most people thought it would be.

Incumbent President Dwight D. Eisenhower was not allowed to run again due to serving two terms.

This was the first presidential election in American history in which both candidates debated against each other on television. On television, Kennedy appeared calm while Nixon appeared nervous. More television viewers thought that Kennedy won the debate, while more radio listeners thought that Nixon won the debate.

This election was the last to not count District of Columbia as an electoral vote until the 1964 election.

Senator John F. Kennedy announced his candidacy for president on January 2, 1960. Vice President Richard Nixon announced his candidacy on January 9, 1960.

This was the last election where Ohio voted for the losing candidate until 2020.

[[Emperor Ingyō]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Ingyō was the 19th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Ingyō to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Ingyō-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Alien and Sedition Acts]]

CATEGORIES: 1790s in the United States, United States federal legislation, John Adams, 1798

The Alien and Sedition Acts were acts of Congress signed by United States president John Adams in 1798, during a naval (sea) conflict against France.  

There were four acts.  

The first three acts were about immigration. They set required time for an immigrant to become a citizen, and allowed the president to send illegal immigrants back to their home country if their home country is at war with the United States or they are considered to be dangerous to the United States. The fourth act made it a crime to publish bad things about the government.

The acts were very controversial. Many people did not like them because they felt that they violated the First Amendment. 

The acts made many people dislike John Adams. For that reason, Thomas Jefferson and the Democratic-Republican Party were able to defeat John Adams and the Federalist Party in the elections of 1800. Three of the acts were repealed. The Alien Enemies Act, however, is still United States law. 

[[Pak Hon-yong]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1956 deaths, Executed people, Korean activists, Korean feminists, North Korean politicians, People executed by firearm, South Korean politicians

Pak Hon-Yong (박헌영, May 28, 1900 - December 18, 1955) was a Korean independence activist, politician, thinker, Communist, and leader of the Korean Chosen Communist Party. His other names are 'Kim Seongsam' (김성삼) and "Ijeong", (이정) which is his pen name. He served in North Korea as the Foreign Minister and Vice Prime Minister, August 1948 to 1953.

He was executed by the North Korean regime on the accusation of being an American spy.

[[Shogi]]

CATEGORIES: Chess variants, Japanese culture

Shogi is also known as Japanese chess. It is a two-player board game in the same family as International chess, and Chinese Xiangqi. Shogi is the most popular of a family of chess variants, and is native to Japan. Shōgi means general's (shō) boardgame (gi). In early years, however, shogi was written 象棋 (the same as Xiangqi, "elephant chess").

The earliest predecessors of the game, chaturanga, originated in India in the 6th century AD, and spread from China to Japan, where it spawned a number of variants. Shogi in its present form was played as early as the 16th century, while a direct ancestor without the "drop rule" was recorded from 1210 in a historical document Nichūreki, which is an edited copy of Shōchūreki and Kaichūreki from the late Heian period (~1120).

According to ChessVariants.com, "Perhaps the enduring popularity of Shogi can be attributed to its 'drop rule'; it was the first chess variant wherein captured pieces could be returned to the board to be used as one's own. This has the consequence that few games are drawn, which is a weakness of international chess. David Pritchard credits the drop rule to the practice of 16th century mercenaries (ronin) who switched loyalties when captured—no doubt as an alternative to execution".

[[1964 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 in the United States, United States presidential elections

The 1964 United States presidential election happened on November 3, 1964. It was between Democrat Lyndon Johnson, President of the United States, and his running mate Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota, against Republican Barry Goldwater, a Senator from Arizona, and his running mate, Congressman William Miller of New York.

In 1963, President John F. Kennedy was assassinated and Lyndon Johnson (his vice president) became president of the United States.

Lyndon Johnson campaigned to continue many of Kennedy's policies and ideas such as civil rights. He supported a series of programs called the "Great Society" to improve the quality of living for poor people which included programs like Medicare, Medicaid, and environmental programs.

Barry Goldwater had the opposite belief that the government should be smaller and he was against government programs. During his campaign, actor Ronald Reagan made a famous speech called "A Time For Choosing" in support of Goldwater. Goldwater, during the campaign, was portrayed as an extremist who condoned the actions of the KKK and would cause nuclear war. His beliefs were radical at the time, but they would later influence many libertarian and conservative politicians.

Lyndon Johnson won the election by a landslide, and this was the last presidential election where Democrats carried any of 8 particular states.

[[1980 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 in the United States, 1980 elections, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, United States presidential elections

The 1980 United States presidential election happened on November 4, 1980. Ronald Reagan, the Republican candidate and former Governor of California, won the election. He defeated the incumbent president, Jimmy Carter, who was a Democrat, and John B. Anderson, a notable third party candidate who was an Independent.

The country had a lot of problems during the election. The economy was bad (it was in a recession). Inflation was very high. There was an energy crisis. Iran, after the Iranian Revolution was holding 52 Americans hostage.

Reagan campaigned for to cut income taxes and to reduce government spending overall while increasing defense spending to challenge the Soviet Union in the Cold War. Carter campaigned for more government programs and mentioned the importance of human rights and preventing nuclear war.

Ronald Reagan won the election by a landslide, meaning that he had a lot more votes than his opponent.  

Ronald Reagan's victory resulted in the Republicans gaining more power for the next few decades.

[[1984 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 in the United States, 1984 elections, Ronald Reagan, United States presidential elections

The 1984 United States presidential election happened on November 6, 1984. Ronald Reagan, the incumbent president and Republican candidate, won the election. He defeated Walter Mondale, the Democratic candidate, who was the vice president of Jimmy Carter.

During the debates, Mondale criticized Ronald Reagan's idea (called Strategic Defense Initiative) to build a missile defense system and also criticized him for making the government borrow too much money.

The bad economy of 1982 ended, and the economy recovered very quickly.  During the election, the economy was the greatest it had been in many years.  Ronald Reagan called it "Morning In America".

Ronald Reagan won the election by a huge landslide (winning 49 out of 50 states).

This election received the highest electoral votes towards any presidential nominee in American history. It is the lowest electoral vote for a Democratic nominee and the highest for a Republican to date.

[[Kofun period]]

CATEGORIES: Periods in Japanese history, 250s establishments, 3rd century establishments in Asia, 538 disestablishments, Establishments in Japan, Disestablishments in Japan

The Kofun period is a time in the history of Japan from around 250 to about 538.   This grouping of years is named after the type of Imperial burial mounds called kofun which were raised in central Japan.

The Kofun period and the Asuka period are sometimes considered together as the Yamato period.

[[Alexis Jordan]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Singers from South Carolina, American television actors, actors from South Carolina, Alexis Jordan, People from Columbia, South Carolina

Alexis Jordan (born April 7, 1992) is an American singer and actress. Jordan was born in Columbia, South Carolina, as the last child of a mixed race mother and a Puerto Rican father. Her musical career started when she performed the opening act for American singer Smokey Robinson at a Stevie Wonder tribute concert. In 2006, she auditioned for the first season of America's Got Talent and sang Whitney Houston's "I Have Nothing". She was later eliminated from the show and moved to Atlanta, Georgia, with her family. Jordan uploaded videos of her cover versions on her official YouTube account. She was discovered by Stargate, which flew Jordan to New York to record a few songs. She met American rapper Jay-Z and signed a recording contract with his new record company, StarRoc/Roc Nation.

In September 2010, Jordan released "Happiness", which peaked at number one on the US Hot Dance Club Songs. It was her first number-one single. "Happiness" was certified triple platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments of 210,000 copies. Jordan released her debut album Alexis Jordan a few months later. Around this time, Jordan was appearing in two television series. She was nominated for "Best International Act" and "Best Push Act" and won "International Hit of the Year" for her single "Happiness".

[[Pico de gallo]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican sauces

Pico de gallo (known in Mexico as Salsa fresca) is a Mexican garnish that is often placed on tacos or tostadas.  It is made with onions, serrano peppers, tomatoes, cilantro and lime juice. There are variations of this garnish such as ones with avocado, nopales (cactus), etc.

[[Match (disambiguation)]]

The word match can have many meanings:

[[Lighter]]

CATEGORIES: Light

A lighter is a tool that can produce a flame, on demand. It is made of a plastic or metal container, which contains a flammable liquid or gas. There is also a means of producing the flame, and extinguishing it, when it is no longer needed.

One of the first lighters was developed by the German chemist Johann Wolfgang Döbereiner in 1823. The lighter was produced until around 1880. The lighter was named Döbereiner's lamp.

There is often an electric cigarette lighter in cars. When the lighter button is pushed in, a metal heating element is connected to the car's 12 volt electricity supply, and it heats up to a high temperature. The lighter is then removed from the socket and the element is used to light the tip of a cigarette. The socket that the lighter goes in can also be used to power mobile phones and other electronics, and the term "cigarette lighter" is now commonly used to refer to this type of connector even when not being used to light a cigarette.

[[Bridgit Mendler]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Actors from Marin County, California, Actors from Washington, D.C., American child actors, American child singers, American movie actors, American pop singers, American television actors, Singers from California, Singers from Washington, D.C.

Bridgit Claire Mendler (born December 18, 1992) is an American actor and singer. She was born in Washington, D.C. and moved to Mill Valley, California at age eight. She acted in the movie Alvin and the Chipmunks 2. She played Pamela in Alice Upside Down in 2007, and Kristen Gregory in the movie version of The Clique. She also guest starred in Disney Channel Original Series' JONAS  and played Juliet Van Heusen on Wizards of Waverly Place. She plays Teddy Duncan in the Disney Channel Original Series Good Luck Charlie" Plus she also played Olivia White on lemonade mouth.

[[Shake-table]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering, Modeling, Research

Shake-table in earthquake engineering is a very effective experimental equipment to verify seismic performance associated with the direct damage to individual buildings or their models under specified ground shaking. The best way to do it is to put a structure on a shake-table that simulates the earth shaking and to watch what may happen next (if you have no time to stand out in the field and wait for a real earthquake to strike). The earliest shake-table experiments were performed more than a century ago 

[[Chiniot District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab (Pakistan), Faisalabad Division

Chiniot District (ضلع چنیوٹ) is a city in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is on left bank of the Chenab River on the Sargodha to Faisalabad road. About 1.5 milion people live there. Chiniot is at latitude 31.7200 and longitude 72.9789.

Chiniot is on the bank of River Chenab, and is famous for its furniture industry, and it sells furniture to other places. Its workers are very good at woodwork.

[[Como La Flor (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 songs, Selena songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"Como La Flor" ("Like The Flower") is a song by American singer Selena. The song was written by Selena's brother, A.B. Quintanilla III. A former Selena y Los Dinos member, Pete Astudillo, co-wrote the song. It was on her third album, Entre A Mi Mundo (1992). The song talks about a sad woman who is hurting because she has lost her boyfriend and she is explaining how it hurts to lose his love but she is saying that his love was like a flower that has dried up and died. As he says goodbye he takes her heart with him she hopes someday some other woman  or his new woman will give him what he is looking for.

The song was released in the United States and Mexico in October 1992. It was the third single off of the album, following "La Carcacha" ("The Jalopy"). It was the lead single in both countries. The single reached number-one on the Mexican Singles Chart and the MonitorLatino charts. This gave Selena her first number-one song as a solo artist. Despite the success, a music video was not produced. "Como La Flor" helped Selena to be accepted into Mexico. She toured there for the first time after the single peaked at number-one. "Como La Flor" also became one of her signature songs.

Various recording artists worldwide have since made their own versions of "Como La Flor", some being non-Hispanic. The song was nominated for several awards at the Tejano Music Awards and the Premio Lo Nuestro awards. It has been certified Diamond in Mexico and Gold in Argentina. It remains one of Selena's most popular songs.

[[Spyware removal software]]

CATEGORIES: Spyware

As spyware has turned into a worse threat, a number of ways to get rid of spyware have been used to remove it. These include programs designed to remove or to block spyware, as well as various user practices which reduce the chance of getting spyware on a system.

Nonetheless, spyware remains a costly problem. When a large number of pieces of spyware have infected a Windows computer, the only way to get rid of them may involve backing up user data, and fully reinstalling the operating system. For instance, some versions of Vundo cannot be completely removed by Microsoft, PC Tools, Symantec and others because it infects Internet Explorer, and Windows' lsass.exe (Local Security Authority Subsystem Service) with a randomly-filenamed dynamic link library (or dll). These can be very helpful.

[[Thul Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh, Jacobabad District

Thul  is an administrative subdivision of Jacobabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The subdivision is administratively divided into 19 Union Councils, two of which form the capital, Thul.

[[Kamakura, Kanagawa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kanagawa Prefecture, 1192 establishments, 1190s establishments in Japan

Kamakura is a city in Kanagawa, Japan. It is about 50 south of Tokyo.  It was the functioning capital of Japan during the Kamakura period (1203-1333).

In 1250, Kamakura was the 4th largest city in the world with 200,000 people.  The other two large cities in Japan at this time were Kyoto and Nara.

Kamakura was made a municipality on November 3, 1939.  

Today, Kamakura is famous as an upper-class area for people to live. This is because of the history and because it is close to the mountains and the sea.

[[Concepción]]

CATEGORIES: 1550 establishments, Concepción, 1550s establishments in South America, 16th-century establishments in Chile

Concepción is the second city in importance of the Republic of Chile with 889,725 inhabitants (2002 census).

[[Mass versus weight]]

CATEGORIES: Matter, Physics

In the physical sciences, mass and weight are different. The mass of an object is a measure of the amount of matter in the object. Weight is a measure of the force on the object caused by a gravitational field. In other words, weight is how hard gravity pulls on an object. This means the mass of an object will remain at wherever it is on the earth's surface, but if it is moved from the equator to the North Pole, its weight will grow by 0.5% because of the increase in the earth's gravitational field.

Mass is measured in kilograms or pounds. A one-liter volume of water has a mass of one kilogram. Weight is measured in newtons, the standard unit for force. A one-kilogram mass placed on  a bench presses down on the bench with almost ten newtons of force. 

[[Microsoft Security Essentials]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft software, Antivirus software

Microsoft Security Essentials (MSE) is a free antivirus software created by Microsoft that provides protection against computer viruses, rootkits, spywares, and trojans for Windows XP. MSE x86 (32-bit) replaces Windows Live OneCare, a commercial subscription-based antivirus service and the free Windows Defender, which only protected users from adware and spyware. It is geared for consumer use, unlike Microsoft's upcoming enterprise-oriented product Microsoft Forefront.

[[Down by Law (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American punk bands, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California

Down By Law is a punk rock band made in or around 1990. Frontman Dave Smalley of "Dag Nasty" fame teamed up with the members of "Chemical People" for their first album and went through many changes all around over the years. Starting on Epitaph records with their first self called LP, DBL continued on Epitaph until "Last of the Sharpshooters" in 1997. A brief stint on Go Kart Records saw the release of "Fly the Flag", and now with their newest release of "Windward Tides and Wayward Sails" in 2003 finds them on Union Label Group.

[[Bhagat Singh]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1931 deaths

Bhagat Singh (28 September 1907 — 23 March 1931) was an Indian socialist and a revolutionary. He is considered to be one of the most influential revolutionaries of the Indian Independence Movement.

[[Wisdom teeth]]

CATEGORIES: Teeth

Wisdom teeth are a set of four teeth, farthest back in a person's mouth. Most people get them late in their teenage years or in their early twenties.  Many people have to have surgery to get rid of them because they often grow in a crooked way.

[[Sebastián Piñera]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Chilean politicians, Current national leaders, Presidents of Chile, Chilean businesspeople, Billionaires, People from Santiago

Miguel Juan Sebastián Piñera Echenique; born December 1, 1949) is the President of Chile since 2018. He previously served as President of Chile from 2010 to 2014. He was elected once again in the 2017 presidential election. 

He won the second round of the presidential election that took place on January 17, 2010, and subsequently took office on March 11, 2010. He is a well-known economist, investor, businessperson, politician, former Senator, and leader of the presidential and parliamentary electoral coalition Coalition for Change. He is a billionaire and one of the richest people in Chile.

[[Kamakura period]]

CATEGORIES: Periods in Japanese history, Samurai, 12th-century establishments in Japan, 1330s disestablishments in Japan, 1333 disestablishments, 1185 establishments

The Kamakura period  is a time in the Japanese history from 1185 through 1333 in the history of Japan.  This grouping of years is named after city of Kamakura which was the center of power of the Kamakura shogunate.

The government of shoguns which was functionally established in 1192 by Minamoto no Yoritomo.

The Kamakura period ended in 1333 with the destruction of the shogunate. Imperial rule was re-established under Emperor Go-Daigo.

[[Modulation]]

Modulation can mean:

[[American Football Conference]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League

The American Football Conference (AFC) is one of the two conferences of the National Football League (NFL), the other being the National Football Conference (NFC). Every year, the winner of the AFC Championship Game receives the Lamar Hunt Trophy and gets to play against the winner of the NFC Championship Game in the Super Bowl. As of 2010, the Pittsburgh Steelers, who have won the AFC Championship Game seven times, have won the most AFC Championship Games. The most recent champion is the Kansas City Chiefs. 

[[Tuned mass damper]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering

After seismic waves make a structure vibrate, a tuned mass damper (or seismic damper) can decrease their damaging effect and improve the building's seismic performance. Vehicles use small dampers and buildings use large ones. Some examples of dampers' design and implementation are presented in the images below:

[[Nelsinho Baptista]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Nelsinho Baptista (born 22 July 1950) is a Brazilian football manager. He manages for Kashiwa Reysol.

[[Cesare Prandelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Italian footballers, Italian football managers

Cesare Prandelli (born 19 August 1957) is a former Italian football player. He has played for some Italian clubs (e.g. Atalanta, Juventus). He manages for Fiorentina.

[[Gerhard Domagk]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1964 deaths, German doctors, German Nobel Prize winners

Gerhard Johannes Paul Domagk  (October 30 1895 — April 24 1964) was a German doctor. He won the 1939 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine,  for discovering the antibacterial effect of protonsil.

[[Tomoyoshi Ikeya]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Tomoyoshi Ikeya is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player and coach.

[[Henrik Dam]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1976 deaths, Danish scientists, Biochemists, Danish Nobel Prize winners

Carl Peter Henrik Dam  (February 21 1895 — April 17 1976) was a Danish chemist. He won the 1943 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine,  along with Edward Doisy,  for the discovery of Vitamin K.

[[Josip Kuže]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2013 deaths, Croatian footballers

Josip Kuže (13 November 1952 – 16 June 2013) was a Croatian football manager. He manages for Albania national team.

[[Cairo International Book Fair]]

CATEGORIES: Cairo, 1969 establishments, 20th-century establishments in Egypt

The Cairo International Book Fair is one of the biggest book fairs in the world with hundreds of book sellers and about two million visitors every year. It is the largest book fair in the Arab world, as well as the oldest. In 2006 it was the second largest book fair in the world after the Frankfurt Book Fair. It is held every year in the last week of January in Cairo, Egypt, at the Cairo International Fair Grounds in Madinat Nasr, near Al-Azhar University. It is organised by the General Egyptian Book Organisation.

[[Park Kyung-Hwan]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Park Kyung-Hwan (박경환 born 29 December 1976) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Alexander Alekhine]]

CATEGORIES: Russian chess players, 1946 deaths, 1892 births

[[Smoke grenade]]

CATEGORIES: Toys, Weapons, Law enforcement equipment

A smoke bomb or smoke grenade is a bomb that produces a cloud of smoke. It can be used as a toy to make large clouds of colored smoke. It is normally used in the military though. Smoke bombs are used to hide positions and objects from sight behind a thick cloud of smoke. Armies also use smoke grenades to hide soldiers from the enemy. Smoke grenades can be used to mark a spot on the ground (for example, a spot where you want a helicopter to land). Smoke bombs can be thrown or shot. They normally contain a powdered chemical that is ignited. It produces a large cloud of smoke quickly. Then something else starts burning, keeping the smoke cloud thick.

[[Kōan (Kamakura period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1278 establishments, 13th-century establishments in Japan, 1288 disestablishments, 13th century disestablishments in Japan

Kōan was a Japanese era after Kenji and before Shōō.  This period started in February 1278 and ended in April 1288. During this time, the emperor|emperors were Go-Uda-tennō and Fushimi-tennō.

[[Elevated building foundation]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering

Elevated building foundation (EBF) is a kind of seismic base isolation technology which is made a major part of a building superstructure. It is made to protect the building's superstructure against damage from the shaking caused by an earthquake.

This goal can be met with the right building materials, size, and setup of EBF for the building site and local soil conditions.

As a result of multiple wave reflections and diffractions, as well as energy dissipation of the seismic waves as they move up through the EBF, any movement of seismic wave energy into the building superstructure will be decreased, which will lower seismic loads and improve seismic performance of the structure.

In other words, the building does not shake as much because it is sitting on the elevated building foundation, and will probably take less damage from the earthquake.

[[Kenji (era)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1270s in Japan

Kenji was a Japanese era which came after Bun'ei and before Kōan.  The period started April 1275 and ended February 1278. During this time, the emperor was Go-Uda-tennō.

[[Seismic load]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering

Seismic load is one of the basic concepts of earthquake engineering which means application of an earthquake-generated agitation to a building structure or its model. It happens at contact surfaces of a structure either with the ground, or with adjacent structures, or with gravity waves from tsunami.

Seismic loading depends, primarily, on:

Sometimes, seismic load exceeds ability of a structure to resist it without being broken, partially or completely. Due to their mutual interaction, seismic loading and seismic performance of a structure are intimately related.

[[Henry Wadsworth Longfellow]]

CATEGORIES: 1807 births, 1882 deaths, 19th-century American poets, Writers from Massachusetts, Writers from Maine, People from Portland, Maine, People from Cambridge, Massachusetts

Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (February 27, 1807 – March 24, 1882) was an American teacher and poet. Some of his poems are "Paul Revere's Ride", The Song of Hiawatha, and Evangeline. He was also the first American to translate Dante Alighieri's The Divine Comedy. He was one of the five Fireside Poets. He was one of the most influential persons in the culture of the 1800s in the USA.

Longfellow was born in Portland, Maine and studied at Bowdoin College. He then spent time in Europe. He returned and became a professor at Bowdoin and, later, at Harvard College. His first major books of poetry were Voices of the Night (1839) and Ballads and Other Poems (1841). Longfellow retired from teaching in 1854 to spend more time writing. He lived the rest of his life in Cambridge, Massachusetts, living in George Washington's old headquarters building. His first wife, Mary Potter, died in 1835 after a miscarriage. His second wife, Frances Appleton, died in 1861 after her dress caught fire. Longfellow had difficulty writing poetry for a time after she died. He mostly worked on his translation. He died in 1882.

Longfellow mainly wrote lyric poems which are known for their musicality. His poems often told stories of mythology and legend. He became the most popular American poet while he was alive. He was also successful in other countries. Some criticized him for imitating European styles and for writing poems for everyday people. In 1884, Longfellow became the first non-British writer for whom a commemorative bust was placed in Poet's Corner of Westminster Abbey in London. He is the only American poet represented with a bust.

[[Bun'ei]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1260s in Japan, 1270s in Japan

Bun'ei was a Japanese era after Kōchō and before Kenji.  This period started in February 1264 and ended in April 1275. During this time, the emperors were Kameyama-tennō and Go-Uda-tennō.

[[Boston Police Strike]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 in the United States, 20th century in Boston, Massachusetts, Law enforcement in the United States, Protests in the 1910s

The Boston Police Strike happened in Massachusetts during 1919. Over a thousand police officers went on strike. They wanted to  be paid more money. The Governor of Massachusetts, Calvin Coolidge, said it was wrong to "strike against the public safety". Coolidge fired the police officers who went on strike.  He hired veterans from World War I to replace them and gave them same bonuses that the striking policemen asked for to the veterans. This was the event which made Coolidge popular enough to become Vice President of the United States and then President of the United States of America after the death of Harding.

[[Panama City]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in North America, Cities in Central America, Settlements in Panama

Panama City is the capital of Panama.  813,097 people live there.  It is now a popular place for elderly people to retire.

[[Nobuyuki Uenoyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Nobuyuki Uenoyama (born 26 May 1957) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Yanmar Diesel.

[[Josep María Comadevall]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Josep María Comadevall (born 24 November 1983) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Badalona.

[[Henk ten Cate]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Dutch football managers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam, Eredivisie managers

Henk ten Cate (born 9 December 1954) is a former Dutch football player.

[[Edson Aparecido de Souza]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Edson Aparecido de Souza (born November 29, 1962) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Edson Rodrigues]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Edson Rodrigues (born March 13, 1967) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Dan Ito]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Dan Ito (born 3 November 1975) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Churchill Brothers.

[[Noriyuki Kawamata]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Noriyuki Kawamata (born 9 May 1967) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Hitachi.

[[Takeshi Satouchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture

Takeshi Satouchi (born 11 January 1957) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Sumitomo Metals.

[[Billy Budd (opera)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Benjamin Britten, 1950s operas, 1951

Billy Budd is an opera by Benjamin Britten.  It was first performed at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, London on 1 December 1951. It is based on the short novel Billy Budd by Herman Melville.  The libretto for the opera was written by E.M.Forster and Eric Crozier.

Britten originally wanted the part of Billy Budd to be sung by Geraint Evans, but Evans found that the notes were too high for his voice, so he sang a different role, and the role of Billy Budd was sung by Theodor Uppman.  The first performance was a great success.

In the original version the opera had four acts, but in 1960 Britten made some changes to the opera, making the story fit into two acts.  Not everybody agrees about which version is the better one.

Famous baritones who have sung the role of Billy Budd include Thomas Allen, Simon Keenlyside, Richard Stilwell, and  Thomas Hampson.  There are no women in the opera at all.

[[Toru Yoshida]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture

Toru Yoshida is a former Japanese football player.

[[Matsuichi Yamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Matsuichi Yamada (born 21 February 1961) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Honda.

[[Motoaki Inukai]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Motoaki Inukai (born 5 July 1942) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Mitsubishi Motors. He is currently the President of Japan Football Association.

[[Kōan (Muromachi period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1361 establishments, 1360s establishments in Japan, 1362 disestablishments, 1360s disestablishments in Japan

Kōan was a Japanese era name (年号, nengō, lit. year name) of the Northern Court during the Nanboku-chō period after Enbun and before Jōji. The period started in March 1361 and ended in September  1362.  During this time, the pretender in Kyoto was Go-Kōgon-tennō.  Go-Kōgon's Southern Court rival in Yoshino during this time was Go-Murakami-tennō.

[[Samarkand]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Asia, Cities in Uzbekistan

Samarkand is a famous city. It is the second-largest city in Uzbekistan and the capital of Samarqand Province.

The city is on the old Silk Road between China and the West, and is an Islamic centre for scholarly study. In the 14th century, it became the capital of the empire of Timur (Tamerlane), and is the site of his mausoleum, the Gur-e Amir. The Bibi-Khanym Mosque remains one of the city's most famous landmarks. The Registan was the ancient centre of the city.

In 2001, UNESCO added the 2,750-year-old city to its World Heritage Site list as Samarkand – Crossroads of Cultures.

[[Kōchō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1261, 1262, 1263, 1264, 1260s in Japan

Kōchō was a Japanese era after Bun'ō and before Bun'ei.  This  period started in February 1261 and ended in February 1264. During this time, the emperor was Kameyama-tennō.

[[Arovell Verlag]]

CATEGORIES: Book publishing companies, 1991 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Austria

Arovell Verlag is an Austrian publishing house for modern literature. It was founded in 1991 by the Austrian writer, artist and musician, Paul Jaeg. Today, Jaeg is still the director.

Each year, Arovell prints between ten and twenty new books. Some authors, such as Peter Paul Wiplinger, have already published several books with Arovell, but others use Arovell to publish their first book(s).

Arovell publishes modern literature in the German language. They include short prose, stories and poetry. The covers of all books show a painting by Paul Jaeg.

Arovell also publishes a magazine about literature, music and art, which gives information about new books and public events. The magazine prints sometimes short texts from the books by Arovell.

The publisher organizes literary, musical and artistic events, especially in Upper Austria and Salzburg, but also in Vienna.

Arovell's headquarter is in Gosau in Upper Austria and has branch offices in Vienna and Salzburg.

[[Powder monkey]]

CATEGORIES: Childhood, War, Occupations, Sailing

Powder monkeys were boys or young teenagers who used to work on board the old sailing ships when they went to war.  When there was a battle it was the powder monkeys'  job to carry bags of gunpowder from the place where it was stored to the people who were operating the guns.  This had to be done quickly, so young boys were ideal because they could run fast and they were small.  It was not unknown for girls to disguise themselves as boys and get a job as a powder monkey.

[[Seismic analysis]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering, Modeling, Research

Seismic performance analysis or seismic analysis is an intellectual tool of earthquake engineering which breaks the complex topic into smaller parts to gain a better understanding of seismic performance of building and non-building structures or their models.

In general, seismic analysis is based on the methods of structural dynamics. For decades, the most prominent instrument of seismic analysis has been the earthquake response spectrum method  which, also, contributed to the proposed building code's concept of today.

However, those response spectra are good, mostly, for single-degree-of-freedom systems. Numerical step-by-step integration, applied with the charts of seismic performance, seems to be a more effective method of analysis for multi-degree-of-freedom structural systems at severe process of earthquake excitation.

The design of structures rests on authorized engineering procedures, principles and criteria meant to design or retrofit structures subject to earthquake exposure. Those criteria are consistent just with the contemporary state of the knowledge about building structures. Therefore, the building design which blindly follows some seismic code regulations does not guarantee safety against collapse or serious damage.

The price of poor seismic analysis may be enormous. Nevertheless, seismic analysis has always been a trial and error process no matter it was based upon physical laws or empirical knowledge.

[[Wiener Werkstattpreis]]

CATEGORIES: Literary awards

The international Wiener Werkstattpreis is a literary prize in Austria and has been founded in 1992. Since the year 2000, the prize is given every year. The organizers want to promote writers who are not well-known yet.

The prize is 1,100 EUR. In 2007, the authors could send in their texts in three categories: short story, poetry and essay.

Supported and partly paid by the Austrian government and the city administration of Vienna, the prize is organized by the publishing house FZA.

[[Petting, Germany]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bavaria

Petting is a village near Traunstein, in Bavaria. It is next to the Waginger See, Lake Waging. The village was built on what was once an island, during the last Ice Age. The island was known as safe, and secure, and was inhabited even at that time. According to the records, the place name means place where there is water, at times. There used to be a church in the village, around 800 AD. Unfortunately, this church was destroyed by the Hungarians around the year 900. There had been a castle in what was then the churchyard; the owners of the castle can be traced back to the 6th century. It is believed that Petting had already existed during the time of the Romans, with the same name. 

The part of the village called Ringham can be traced to 788 AD, when it's mentioned by a chronicle of the bishop of Salzburg. In 1970, about 1,700 people lived in Petting; in 2000 they were about 2,200.

[[Japanese American internment]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s in the United States, Crimes against humanity, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Imprisonment and detention, World War II, Concentration camps

Japanese American internment happened during World War II when the United States government forced about 110,000 Japanese Americans to leave their homes and live in internment camps.  These were like prisons. Many of the people who were sent to internment camps had been born in the United States.

On December 7, 1941, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor in Hawaii and declared war on the United States. Many Americans were furious, and some blamed all Japanese people for what had happened at Pearl Harbor. They spread rumors that some Japanese people knew about the attack ahead of time and had helped the Japanese military. The FBI and other parts of the United States government knew that these rumors were not true, but did not say anything.   

Japanese Americans began to feel that other Americans were becoming upset with them. For example, John Hughes, a man who read the news and listened to the radio in Los Angeles, California, spoke about Japanese Americans. There were reports of businesses that had anti-Japanese signs. For example, a barber shop put up a sign saying "Free shaves for Japs" and "not responsible for accidents."  A funeral home hung a sign saying "I'd rather do business with a Jap than an American."

[[Feldkircher Lyrikpreis]]

CATEGORIES: Literary awards, Austrian culture, Vorarlberg

The Feldkirch Poetry Prize, in German Feldkircher Lyrikpreis, started by Erika Kronabitter, an Austrian artist and writer, is given every year by the theater Theater am Saumarkt in Feldkirch, Vorarlberg/Austria. Among the sponsors, there are the Austrian government, the local administration of Vorarlberg and private banks. In 2003, the poetry prize was organized for the first time.

Poets from all countries may send in their poems. German philologists and poets are the jury. The winners are presented to the public during Fall. The winning poems are archived in the Library of Vorarlberg.

[[Inferno Metal Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Oslo, Music festivals, Festivals in Europe

Inferno Metal Festival is an annual extreme metal festival in Oslo, Norway. The festival take place at Rockefeller Music Hall.

[[Sailing ship]]

CATEGORIES: Ships

A sailing ship is a big boat with sails which catch the wind.  The wind pushes the boat along.  A sailing ship had a rig of at least three masts, square rigged on all of them.  The great days of sailing ships was from around the 15th century to the middle of the 19th century.  They were very important for trade as well as for war.  All large boats became known as "ships", so when steam power was invented people talked about "steam ships" to distinguish them from "sailing ships".

Small boats with sails are called "yachts" or sailboats.  They are used today for leisure activities.

[[Weather radar]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

A weather radar is a type of radar used to show where precipitation is. Weather radar can tell the movement of precipitation, what type it is (rain, snow, hail, etc.), and forecast its future.

Modern weather radars are mostly Doppler radars, which can find the movement of rain drops and the intensity of the precipitation. Both types of information can be used to find the structure of storms and tell if they will cause any severe weather.

[[Hominid (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 books, Novels

Hominid is a novel by Austrian writer Klaus Ebner. The story takes place millions of years ago and tells some days in the life of a group of hominids who live in Central Africa. The book was published by the Viennese publisher FZA Verlag in October 2008.

[[Impressment]]

CATEGORIES: Navy

Impressment  (the Press) was the act of forcing men to serve in the navy.  The people who were "pressed" to join the navy were usually young men.  A naval officer would lead a press gang and force men onto warships where they were made to serve as sailors.  Their families (if they had families) seldom knew where they had been taken.

This was a normal practice in the Royal Navy during the 17th, 18th and early 19th centuries.  Many people said that it should be stopped, but the Navy said it was a good way to get sailors who were needed to defend their country.  After the Napoleonic Wars the need for sailors was less and the Navy stopped impressing them. 

[[Naïve]]

CATEGORIES: Human behavior

Naïve (pronounce: "na-EEV") is a French word which is used in English to mean that someone is very simple and does not understand about the dangers around them.  Someone who is naïve does not have enough experience of life to know about things he or she ought to know; for example, they may be very trusting, not realizing that some people in the world are evil and that some situations are perilous.

The word is sometimes spelt in English without the French double dot on the letter i, "naive", due to the default settings for typing in English lacking it.   It is an adjective.  The noun is naïveté, but is sometimes spelt naïvety in English.  It is similar in meaning to the word "innocent" and is not always a negative quality in that being naïve implies a lack of acquired prejudice.

The word naïve is used in other special ways in the arts and sciences.  It often means "lack of experience", but it does not necessarily mean it in a critical way.

[[Bun'ō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1260, 1261, 1260s in Japan

Bun'ō was a Japanese era after Shōgen and before Kōchō.  This  period started in April 1260 and ended in February 1261. During this time, the emperor was Kameyama-tennō.

[[Miodrag Božović]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Montenegrin footballers

Miodrag Božović (born 22 July 1968) is a former Montenegrin football player.

[[Kenichi Sugano]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Kenichi Sugano (born 8 August 1971) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Lawar]]

CATEGORIES: Thai food

Lawar is a traditional food in Bali, Thailand. It contains young jackfruit, pork and pig's blood.

[[Strength training]]

CATEGORIES: Fitness

Strength training is the use of resistance to muscular contraction to build the physical strength and endurance. There are many different methods of strength training, the most common being the weight/gravity training and the training with the help of resistive equipment.

When properly performed, strength training can provide significant functional benefits and improvement in overall health and well-being, including increased bone, muscle, tendon and ligament strength, improved joint function, reduced potential for injury, increased bone density, a temporary increase in metabolism, improved cardiac function.

Training commonly uses the technique of progressively increasing the force output of the muscle through incremental increases of weight, elastic tension or other resistance, and uses a variety of exercises and types of training equipment to target specific muscle groups. Strength training is primarily an anaerobic activity.

Strength training differs from bodybuilding, weightlifting, powerlifting, and strongman, which are sports rather than forms of exercise, although training for them totally depends on strength training. Many other sports use strength training as a part of their training regimen, notably football, lacrosse, basketball, hockey and track and field.

[[Naohiko Minobe]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture

Naohiko Minobe is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hitoshi Nakata]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Hitoshi Nakata (born 17 January 1962) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Fujita and Otsuka Pharmaceuticals.

[[Karin Gayer]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian writers, 1969 births, Living people

Karin Gayer (born 1969 in Mödling near Vienna) is an Austrian writer. She published poetry and fiction.

[[Franzobel]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Austrian writers, Austrian poets, Living people

Franzobel is the pseudonym of the Austrian writer Stefan Griebl. He was born on March 1, 1967 in Vöcklabruck. He now lives in Vienna.

[[German National Library]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Frankfurt, Buildings and structures in Saxony, Leipzig, Libraries in Germany, National libraries in Europe

The German National Library (Deutsche Nationalbibliothek, abbreviated DNB) is the central library and national bibliographic center for the Federal Republic of Germany. Its task is to collect, archive, document and record bibliographically all German and German language publications from 1913 on, foreign publications about Germany, translations of German works, and the works of German-speaking emigrants published abroad between 1933 and 1945, and to make them available to the public. The German National Library maintains co-operative external relations on the national and international level. For example, it is the leading partner in developing and maintaining bibliographic rules and standards in Germany and plays a significant role in the development of international library standards. The cooperation with publishers is regulated by law since 1935 for the Deutsche Bücherei Leipzig, since 1969 for the Deutsche Bibliothek Frankfurt.

Duties are shared between the facilities in Leipzig and Frankfurt am Main, with each center having a specific specialty area. A third facility, the Deutsches Musikarchiv Berlin (founded 1970), deals with all music-related archiving (both printed and recorded materials).

[[Intonation (linguistics)]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

In linguistics, intonation is variation of pitch while speaking which is not used to distinguish words. (Compare tone.) Intonation and stress are two main elements of linguistic prosody.

All languages use pitch semantically, that is, as intonation, for instance for emphasis, to convey surprise or irony, or to pose a question. Tonal languages such as Chinese and Hausa use pitch to distinguish words in addition to intonation. 

Rising intonation means the pitch of the voice increases over time; falling intonation means that the pitch decreases with time. A dipping intonation falls and then rises, whereas a peaking intonation rises and then falls.

The classic example of intonation is the question-statement distinction.

For example, northeastern American English, like very many languages (Hirst & DiCristo, eds. 1998), has a rising intonation for echo or declarative questions (He found it on the street?), and a falling intonation for wh- questions (Where did he find it?) and statements (He found it on the street.). Yes or no questions (Did he find it on the street?) often have a rising end, but not always. Some languages like Chikasaw and kalaallisut have the opposite pattern: rising for statements and falling with questions.

Dialects of British and Irish English vary substantially, with rises on many statements in urban Belfast, and falls on most questions in urban Leeds.

In the International Phonetic Alphabet, "global" rising and falling intonation are marked with a diagonal arrow rising left-to-right ↗ and falling left-to-right ↘, respectively. These may be written as part of a syllable, or separated with a space when they have a broader scope:

Here the rising pitch on street indicates that the question hinges on that word, on where he found it, not whether he found it. 

Here, as is common with wh- questions, there is a rising intonation on the question word, and a falling intonation at the end of the question. 

[[Heinz Gerstinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, Austrian historians, Austrian playwrights, Writers from Vienna

Heinz Gerstinger (born October 13, 1919 in Vienna; died April 28, 2016 in Vienna) is an Austrian writer, playwright and historian.

[[Ingrid Reichel]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Austrian painters, Austrian writers, Essayists, People from Lower Austria

Ingrid Reichel (born 1961 in St. Pölten, Lower Austria) is an Austrian artist, painter, essayist, and a reviewer of arts and literature.

[[Absurdism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical movements and positions

Absurdism is a type of philosophy. People who support and argue for absurdism are known as 'absurdists'. Absurdists think that the human condition is essentially absurd because humans are always looking for meaning, but are completely unable to find meaning because no such meaning exists. In philosophy, this is called ‘the Absurd’. In this case absurd means that it is not possible to be done by humans.

Absurdists, most notably Albert Camus, believe that when human beings realize this fundamental absurdity they have different reactions. One reaction is suicide, but this is not generally considered to be a viable solution by Absurdists; suicide is in and of itself the most absurd action possible. Another reaction is to believe in something higher (Camus gave religion as an example of this, although he went on to criticize its merit as a solution to fundamental absurdity) when they see that there is no meaning they can find in the universe (which is what absurdism says is the basic state of human experience). The final reaction is to accept the absurd, and also to keep trying to overcome it. Camus believed that a human being could become happy by finding meaning in their relationship with the absurdity of their existence.

Perhaps the most notable absurdist philosopher is Albert Camus. Søren Kierkegaard's ideas contributed to the development of Absurdist philosophy, although he was himself an existentialist.

[[Elpídio Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Elpídio Silva (born 19 July 1975) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for AEK Larnaca.

[[Takahiro Shimada]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Takahiro Shimada (born 9 February 1965) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Gamba Osaka.

[[Ryuji Ishizue]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Ryuji Ishizue (born 22 July 1964) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shuichi Mase]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Shuichi Mase (born 22 October 1973) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for North American, Central American, and Croatian clubs. He is currently a football coach and interpreter.

[[Tropical Storm Grace (2009)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 Atlantic hurricane season, Atlantic tropical storms, October 2009 events

Tropical Storm Grace was an unusual tropical cyclone that formed in the Atlantic Ocean. It was the 7th named storm of the 2009 Atlantic hurricane season. Grace began over the Azores on October 4, and had wind speeds of 65 mph (100 km/h). However, the storm did not last very long, and cold water temperatures caused it to weaken. The storm died out on October 6 over England. The storm was farther north and east in the Atlantic than most tropical storms.

Grace had only minor effects on land. While it was passing through the Azores, islands near the storm felt strong winds and some rain. In Portugal, the storm partly caused heavy rain that caused flooding. What was left of Tropical Storm Grace hit parts of Ireland and the United Kingdom. In this area, 2 of rain fell and winds became strong, although there was no bad damage.

[[Amar Osim]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Bosnia and Herzegovina footballers, Bosnia and Herzegovina football managers, People from Sarajevo

Amar Osim (born 18 July 1967) is a Bosnia and Herzegovina former football player. He is the manager of Željezničar Sarajevo. He is one of the most successful Bosnian-Herzegovinian football managers.

[[Be Good to Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs

"Be Good to Me" is a song on Ashley Tisdale's first album, Headstrong. "Be Good to Me" was the first song released off the album. It was released in the United States on December 25, 2006 and in South America in January 2007. The album version has rap vocals by David Jassy.

[[Emperor Kameyama]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan, 1249 births, 1305 deaths

Emperor Kameyama (9 July 1249 – 4 October 1305), was the 90th emperor of Japan, in the traditional order of succession.  His reign started in 1259 and ended in 1274.

[[National Diet Library]]

CATEGORIES: National libraries in Asia, Buildings and structures in Japan, 1948 establishments in Asia, 1940s establishments in Japan

The National Diet Library is the only national library in Japan. It was established in 1948.

The purpose of the library is to assist members of the Diet of Japan. The library is similar in purpose and scope to the U.S. Library of Congress.

The National Diet Library has two main facilities. One is in Tokyo and the other is in Kyoto. There are also several branch libraries in Japan.

[[Weight training]]

CATEGORIES: Fitness

Weight training is a common type of strength training. It uses the force of gravity in the form of weighted bars, dumbbells or weight stacks to oppose the force generated by muscles. Weight training uses many different special things to help certain areas of muscle and different kinds of body motions.

"Weight training" is not bodybuilding, Olympic weightlifting, or power-lifting; these are sports and not training. Weight training is a part of these sports' training.

[[Gang]]

CATEGORIES: Gangs

A gang is a group of people who do things together. The word "gang" comes from the Old English gan, which means "to go". It is also related to Old Norse gangr "a group of men". In modern times the word gang is often used to refer to a group of people who commit crimes together. Members of criminal gangs may be called gangsters.

There are several reasons why people join gangs. Lots of people who join gangs are young people. One reason that people join gangs is a chance to make money through doing things like selling illegal drugs or stealing. Another reason, especially for younger people, is a chance to have a place where they belong. A third reason is boredom.

African Americans and Hispanics constitute the majority of gang members.

[[Folk metal]]

CATEGORIES: Heavy metal subgenres

Folk metal is a type of heavy metal music that started in Europe in the 1990s. This music is a mixture of heavy metal and traditional folk music. Folk instruments are used a lot and sometimes traditional singing styles are also used.

The earliest example of folk metal was the English band Skyclad. Their first album The Wayward Sons of Mother Earth was made in 1990. In 1994 and 1995 more folk metal bands appeared in Europe and Israel. Some of these early bands were the Irish band Cruachan, the Israeli band Orphaned Land, and the German band Subway to Sally. Each band started to develop their own kind of folk metal. These styles became Celtic metal, Oriental metal and Medieval metal.

In the 1990s, folk metal was not well known and there were not many folk metal bands. In the early 2000s, folk metal became a lot more popular. It was especially popular in Finland. Some bands in Finland were Ensiferum, Turisas, Korpiklaani, Finntroll and Moonsorrow.

Different bands play folk metal music in different ways. A lot of different instruments are also used. Many bands have six or more members so they can play many different instruments at the same time. A few bands also use keyboards to make the sound of folk instruments. Lyrics in folk metal are normally about nature, fantasy, mythology and history.

[[Ensiferum]]

CATEGORIES: Finnish heavy metal bands, Folk metal bands, Musical groups from Helsinki, Musical groups established in 1995, 1995 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Finland

Ensiferum is a folk metal band from Helsinki, Finland. The name comes from the Latin word ensĭfĕrum which means "sword bearer". (someone who carries a sword) The members of the band call their music "heroic folk metal." Ensiferum has made four albums, one EP, one compilation, three singles, and three demo albums.

[[Shōgen]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1259, 1260, 1250s in Japan, 1260s in Japan

Shōgen was a Japanese era after Shōka and before Bun'ō.  This period started in March 1259 and ended in April 1260.  During this time, the emperors were Fukakusa-tennō and Kameyama-tennō.

[[Kenichiro Tokura]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Kenichiro Tokura (born 31 May 1971) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Gahkuch]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Gakuch town is the capital of the Ghizar District in Pakistan. It is at 36°10′N, 73°45′E.

[[Sicilian defence]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The Sicilian defence, usually called just the Sicilian, is a chess opening, which starts with these moves: 

In competitive chess, it is by far the most frequently played reply to the King's Pawn opening (1.e4).

Now Black decides where to put his KB: on e7 or g7; his QN will probably go to c6.

Instead of 3.f4, a slower game with 3.g3 followed by Bg2 and d3 could be chosen by White.

[[King's Gambit]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The King's Gambit is a chess opening which starts with these moves:

The opening is called a gambit because White sacrifices a pawn. In exchange for the pawn, White gets better development and opens up lines that can be used to attack/checkmate the black king. It was more popular in the 1800s, when many Black players did not know good ways to play against it.

[[Celtic Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Seas of the Atlantic Ocean, Bodies of water of Europe

The Celtic Sea (An Mhuir Cheilteach; Y Môr Celtaidd; An Mor Keltek; La Mer Celtique) is the area of the Atlantic Ocean off the south coast of Ireland. To the east of it are the Saint George's Channel, the Bristol Channel, the English Channel, and the Bay of Biscay, as well as adjacent portions of Wales, Cornwall, Devon, and Brittany. The southern and western boundaries are based on the continental shelf.

[[Réti opening]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The Réti opening (or just "the Réti") is a hypermodern chess opening. It starts with 1.Nf3. It was originally devised for sequences like

Now 2.g3 is as usual as 2.c4 in this opening. The opening can change into many others as pieces develop. This is called transposition.

[[Barbed wire]]

CATEGORIES: Security, Ranching, War

Barbed wire (also called barb wire) is a kind of wire that is used to make cheap fences. It has sharp metal points (barbs),  which make climbing over it painful.

The first patent in the United States for barbed wire was issued in 1867 to Lucien B. Smith of Kent, Ohio, who is regarded as the inventor. Joseph Glidden of DeKalb, Illinois, received a patent for the modern invention in 1874 after he made his own modifications to previous versions.

It was first used for controlling cattle and later in trench warfare.

[[Balanced budget amendment]]

CATEGORIES: United States Constitution

A balanced budget amendment is a rule in the United States Constitution that requires the government's yearly budget to spend no more than it earns, so the government does not have to borrow money.

Some proposals of the balanced budget amendment allow the government to borrow money (spending more than it earns) during a time of emergency such as war, or if most people in Congress agree it is necessary.

[[Faggot]]

Faggot might mean:

[[Howard Staunton]]

CATEGORIES: 1810 births, 1874 deaths, British chess players, English writers

Howard Staunton (1810 – 22 June 1874) was an English chess master. He was the world's strongest player from 1843 to 1851.p391 This is based on his 1843 match victory over the strongest French player, Saint-Amant. Staunton was the main organizer of the first international chess tournament in London 1851. It was organised to help celebrate the 1851 Exhibition at Hyde Park. These events helped to make London the world's leading chess centre. The winner of the tournament, Anderssen, then became recognised as the world's strongest player.

Staunton ran a chess column in the Illustrated London News from 1845 to his death in 1874. He edited the Chess Player's Chronicle, the first important chess magazine in English,p297 from 1841 to 1854. He won matches against all the top players of the 1840s. 

In 1847 he entered a parallel career as a Shakespearean scholar. Ill health and his two writing careers led him to give up competitive chess after 1851. In 1858 attempts were made to organise a match between Staunton and Morphy, but they failed. Morphy's biographer alleged that Staunton misled Morphy to avoid the match, but Staunton said he had retired from serious play.

Staunton's understanding of positional (strategic) play was far ahead of his rivals. His chess articles and books were widely read, and encouraged the development of chess. His Chess-Player's Handbook (1847) was a standard text-book for decades. He played and popularised two of the most important modern openings, the Sicilian Defence, and the English Opening. Staunton was a controversial figure in his time, and his chess writings could be spiteful. There is no doubt that he was the supreme figure in the chess world of the mid-19th century. His books, and his writing for newspapers and magazines, had world-wide influence.

[[Syncope]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms

Syncope is the medical term for fainting or blacking out. It is a sudden loss of consciousness, usually for a short time. It is mostly because there is not enough oxygen in the brain. It can be for other reasons. 

Fainting is quite common. It usually happens in two age ranges: the teenage years, and during older age. The chance of a person fainting at least once in a lifetime is about 40 to 50 percent. Syncope causes 1 to 3 percent of all attendances to emergency departments and 1 to 6 percent of all hospital admissions.

[[English opening]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The English opening, usually just called the English, is a chess opening for players with the white pieces. It has become the third most popular opening move, after 1.e4 and 1.d4. The opening was developed by the English master Howard Staunton, and played in his match against Saint-Amant.p124

As a first move this may transpose back to a QP opening: 1.c4 Nf6 2.d4. That would not be an English opening. The English is a system of development, flexible but including some or all of these moves:

1.c4 Nf6 2.Nc3 g6 3.g3 Bg7 4.Bg2 0-0 5.d3 d6 6.Nf3 e5 7.0-0 Nc6 8.Rb1 a5 9.a3 h6 10.b4 axb4 11.axb4 Be6 12.b5 This sequence shows the system fully in operation. White operates in the centre and Q-side; Black operates more on the K-side.

1.c4 e5 2.g3 Nf6 3.Bg2 d5 4.cxd5 Nxd5 5.Nf3 Nc6 6.d3 This has the character of a Sicilian defence reversed.

1.c4 Nf6 2.Nc3 e6 3.e4 d5 4.cxd5 exd5 5.e5 Here 5...d4, 5...Ne4 and 5...Nfd7 are most often played. This is a quite different line, where the two sides clash early in the centre. Since White does not have to play 3.e4, he could avoid this line.

Each of these lines has its own distinct character, and needs to be learnt by the player.

[[Sebastián Pardo]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Chilean footballers, People from Quillota

Sebastián Pardo (born 1 January 1982) is a former Chilean football player. He has played for the Chilean national team.

[[Goran Rubil]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Goran Rubil (born 9 March 1981) is a Croatian football player. He plays for Hajduk Split.

[[Carlos Alberto Dias]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Brasília

Carlos Alberto Costa Dias (born 5 May 1967) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Claiton Fontoura dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Porto Alegre

Claiton Fontoura dos Santos (born 25 January 1978) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Atlético Paranaense.

[[Reinaldo Vicente Simão]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Reinaldo Vicente Simão (born 23 October 1968) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Ovidiu Burcă]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Romanian footballers

Ovidiu Burcă (born 16 March 1980) is a Romanian football player. He plays for Energie Cottbus.

[[Jussiê Ferreira Vieira]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jussiê Ferreira Vieira (born 19 September 1983) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Girondins Bordeaux.

[[Oh Jang-Eun]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Oh Jang-Eun (born 24 July 1985) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Caíco]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Porto Alegre

Caíco (born 15 May 1974) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Argélico Fuchs]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Brazilian football managers

Argélico Fuchs, previously Argélico Fucks, (born 14 September 1974) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Henrique Arlindo Etges]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Henrique Arlindo Etges (born 15 March 1966) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Moacir Rodrigues Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Moacir Rodrigues Santos (born 21 March 1970) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Emerson Orlando de Melo]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Emerson Orlando de Melo (born 2 March 1973) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Claudio Ubeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Claudio Ubeda (born 17 September 1969) used to be an Argentinian football player.

[[Christoffer Andersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Christoffer Andersson (born 22 October 1978) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Helsingborg.

[[Shōan]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1299, 1300s in Japan

Shōan was a Japanese era after Einin and before Kengen.  The period started in April 1299 and ended in November 1302. During this time, the emperors were Go-Fushimi-tennō and Go-Nijō-tennō.

[[Kengen]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1302, 1303, 1300s in Japan

Kengen, also known as Kangen or Ken'ei, was a Japanese era after Shōan and before Kagen.  This period started in November 1302 and ended in August 1303. During this time, the emperor  was Go-Nijō-tennō.

[[Jimmy Connors]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, American male tennis players, Australian Open champions, Living people, People from East St. Louis, Illinois, Sportspeople from Illinois, US Open (tennis) champions, Wimbledon champions, World No. 1 tennis players

James Scott "Jimmy" Connors (born September 2, 1952, in East St. Louis, Illinois, also known as "Jimbo") is an American retired tennis player. He was the World No. 1 tennis player. He won the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the US Open. He was coached by Pancho Segura.

[[Kagen]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1303, 1304, 1305, 1306, 1300s in Japan

Kagen was a Japanese era after Kengen and before Tokuji.  This period started in August 1303 and ended in December 1306. During this time, the emperor was Go-Nijō-tennō.

[[Westport, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Connecticut

Westport is a town in South Western Connecticut, United States.

[[Wofford College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in South Carolina

Wofford College is a liberal arts college in Spartanburg, South Carolina and currently has about 1,500 students. Wofford's motto is "Intaminatis fulget honoribus" which means in English ("She shines with untarnished honor"). Wofford's mascot is the terrier and their colors are old gold and black.

[[Tokuji]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1306, 1307, 1308, 1300s in Japan

Tokuji was a Japanese era after Kagen and before Enkyō.  This period started in December 1306 and ended in October 1308. During this time, the emperor was Go-Nijō-tennō.

[[Net]]

Net can refer to:

In computing and communications, it can also refer to

[[Enkyō (Kamakura period)]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1308 establishments, 14th century establishments in Japan, 1311 disestablishments, 14th century disestablishments in Japan

Enkyō, also known as Enkei or Enkyū, was a Japanese era after Tokuji and before Ōchō.  This period started in October 1308 and ended in April 1311.  During this time, the emperor was Hanazono-tennō.

The nengō Enkyō means "Becoming Prolonged" because of the tail of the great comet which was seen in the night sky of 1308.

[[Preparatory school]]

CATEGORIES: Schools, Types of educational institutions

A preparatory school (or prep school) is a term in school education. Its use varies in different parts of the world.

[[OR gate]]

CATEGORIES: Logic gates

The OR gate is a logic gate that outputs 1 (true) when at least one of its inputs is 1 (true). That means that if both of its inputs are 0, the output will be 0.

The best way to remember an OR operation is "one or the other, or both."

[[Ōchō]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese eras, 1311 establishments, 1310s establishments in Japan, 1312 disestablishments, 1310s disestablishments in Japan

Ōchō was a Japanese era after Enkyō and before Shōwa.  This period started in April 1311 and ended in February 1312. During this time, the emperor was Hanazono-tennō.

[[NOR gate]]

CATEGORIES: Logic gates

The NOR gate is a logic gate that outputs 1 (true) when both of its inputs are 0 (false). That means that if at least one of its inputs is 1 (true), the output will be 0.

The best way to remember a NOR operation is "neither one or the other, nor both."

[[XOR gate]]

CATEGORIES: Logic gates

The XOR gate (Exclusive OR) is a logic gate that outputs 1 (true) when exactly one of its inputs is 1 (true). That means that if both of its inputs are the same, the output will be 0 (false). The XOR gate does what is called an exclusive disjunction in logic.

[[Hollywood Undead]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop bands, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California

Hollywood Undead is a rap rock band from Los Angeles, California. They became a band in 2005 when members Aron Erlichman (Deuce) and Jorel Decker (J-Dog) released the song "The Kids" on their MySpace account. Their first album Swan Songs was released in 2008 and became a hit claiming Gold in the United States. 

[[Erik Edman]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Erik Edman (born 11 November 1978) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Helsingborg and the Swedish national team.

[[Magnus Hedman]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Magnus Hedman (born 19 March 1973) is a former Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.

[[Ludovic Magnin]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Swiss footballers, Swiss football managers, People from Lausanne

Ludovic Magnin (born 20 April 1979) is a Swiss football player. He plays for Zürich and Switzerland national team.

[[Takashi Umeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Gifu Prefecture

Takashi Umeda (born 30 May 1976) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Oita Trinita.

[[Yohei Fukumoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture

Yohei Fukumoto is a Japanese football player.

[[Marcelo Chamusca]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Brazilian football managers, People from Salvador, Bahia

Marcelo Chamusca (born 7 October 1966) is a Brazilian football manager. His brother is Péricles Chamusca. From 2004 until 2009, he was a coach at the club Péricles Chamusca managed (São Caetano, Goiás, Botafogo, Oita Trinita).

[[Manabu Komatsubara]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Gunma Prefecture

Manabu Komatsubara (born 2 April 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shinichi Terada]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Shinichi Terada (born 10 June 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.

[[Naruyuki Naito]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Nara Prefecture

Naruyuki Naito is a former Japanese football player.

[[Július Bielik]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Slovak footballers

Július Bielik (born 8 March 1962) is a former Slovak football player. He has played for Czechoslovakia national team.

[[Tigran Petrosian]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1984 deaths, Chess grandmasters, People from Tbilisi, Armenian people

Tigran Petrosian  (Tbilisi, Georgia, 17 June 1929 – Moscow, 13 August 1984) was World Chess Champion from 1963 to 1969. He was born to Armenian parents, and brought up in the capital of Armenia, Yerevan.p103 Before his chess career, he was a street cleaner.

Petrosian got the USSR national master title in 1947, and his chess improved rapidly when he moved to Moscow that year. By coming second in the 1951 USSR championship he qualified for the FIDE Interzonal tournament in Stockholm next year. There, he qualified for the World Championship Candidates tournament in Zurich 1953. He came fifth, and was awarded the title of International Grandmaster.p299

Years followed when he made no visible progress, and others had the chance to challenge for the world title. Vasily Smyslov and Mikhail Tal both won the world title, yet lost it back to Botvinnik in return matches. At last, in 1962, Tigran won the Candidates tournament, and became the new challenger to Botvinnik. Petrosian also won the very strong Soviet Championship four times, in 1959 (Tbilisi), 1961 (Moscow), 1969 (Moscow), and 1975 (Yerevan).p118

[[Mikkel Kessler]]

CATEGORIES: Boxers, Danish sportspeople, People from Copenhagen, 1979 births, Living people

Mikkel Kessler (born March 1, 1979 in Copenhagen) is a Danish professional boxer. His nickname is The Viking Warrior. Kessler won the WBA Super Middleweight regular title on June 21, 2008, beating Dimitri Sartison by a 12th round knockout. Kessler defended his title against Danilo Häussler, on October 25, and against Gusmyl Perdomo on 12 September 2009. On November 21, 2009 Kessler lost his championship to Andre Ward in the Super Six World Boxing Classic tournament. Kessler's next fight will be against Carl Froch.

[[Line-item veto]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms

A line-item veto is the power of the president (or any leader of an executive branch) to reject (veto) certain individual parts ("line items") of a piece of legislation (a bill) without rejecting the whole thing.

In the United States, almost all governors (leaders of the U.S. states) are able to use the line item veto.  Currently, the President of the United States is not able to use the line-item veto; however, the Presidents of Brazil and Belarus can. President Bill Clinton was given the line-item veto by the United States Congress for a few years until the Supreme Court said that it was unconstitutional.

People who like the line-item veto say that it is good because it allows the President to remove unimportant waste from important legislation.  For example, it would be too dangerous to completely veto big pieces of legislation (like the budget for the military or the budget for other government departments), but with the line-item veto, the President could choose to keep what he or she thinks are the good parts of the bill and reject the bad parts of the bill.

People who do not like the line-item veto say that it is bad because it gives the President too much power over Congress and believe that it goes against the checks and balances created by the U.S. Constitution.  Other criticisms include the possibility that the president's individual vetoes of line items make the bill different than what Congress voted for.

[[Milton Friedman]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2006 deaths, American agnostics, American economists, American Nobel Prize winners, Deaths from heart failure, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Libertarians, Republicans (United States), Scientists from San Francisco, Scientists from Chicago, Scientists from New Jersey, Scientists from New York City, Writers from San Francisco, Writers from Chicago, Writers from New Jersey, Writers from New York City

Milton Friedman (July 31, 1912 – November 16, 2006) was an American economist. He believed in monetarism.  Monetarism is the theory that how much money the government prints each year has a huge effect on the economy.  He supports the government printing the same low rate of money each year rather than a different amount each year.

Friedman was born in Brooklyn, New York to a Hungarian-Jewish family. He was raised in Rahway, New Jersey. Friedman studied at Rutgers University, at Columbia University, and at the University of Chicago. He worked thirty years in Chicago with George Stigler as a leader of the Chicago school of economics.

During the 1970s, Milton Friedman's idea of monetarism gained popularity and he became an economic advisor to President Ronald Reagan.

Friedman believed that the government control over the economy should be limited.  He supported cutting taxes, lowering government spending, getting rid of government rules that limited the economy and letting parents choose which school their taxes paid for.  His political views were libertarian.  He was against forcing people to join the army, and said that getting rid of United States military conscription was the thing he was most proud of doing.

Throughout several decades, Friedman made many documentaries, books, and interviews to express his views to the public. The main books he wrote were Capitalism and Freedom and Free to Choose.

Friedman married Rose Director in 1938. Together, they had a son and a daughter. He was agnostic.

Friedman died of heart failure in San Francisco, California, aged 94. He was survived by his wife and his two children. His remains were cremated and scattered over the San Francisco Bay area.

[[Electron configuration]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

An electron configuration is the arrangement of electrons within an atom. The electron configuration describes where the electrons are inside orbitals. The structure of the Periodic table of elements is partly based on electron configuration.

There are four kinds of electron configurations: s, p, d, and f orbitals.  S orbitals are roughly sphere-shaped, p orbitals are shaped like a dumbbell, d orbitals are usually shaped like a four-leaf clover, and f orbitals form a mathematically complex shape. An atom can have more than one orbital; in fact, all except hydrogen do. Similarly, atoms can have more than one of each kind of orbital.

The electron configurations fill up with electrons in an unchanging order. They describe how the electrons behave and orbit the nucleus.

[[Asuka period]]

CATEGORIES: Periods in Japanese history, 538 establishments, Establishments in Japan, 710s disestablishments in Japan, 6th century establishments in Asia

The Asuka period, sometimes called Suikochō-jidai ("period of the Suiko court"), was a time in the history of Japan which lasted from around 538 through about 710.  There is some overlap with the Kofun period which came before.  There is also some overlap with the Nara period which comes after. 

The Asuka period is named after the Asuka region, about 25 km south to the modern city of Nara. 

[[Marie Byrd Land]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Antarctica

Marie Byrd Land is a part of Antarctica. It is between the Unclaimed Ross Ice Shelf and the Ross Sea to the west and the Pacific Ocean to the north. It goes towards the east to a line between the head of the Ross Ice Shelf and Eights Coast. It stretches between 158°W and 103°24'W. The area between the Rockefeller Plateau and Eights Coast is included. This is because Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd had an important role in its exploration. Admiral Byrd named the territory in 1929. It was in honour of his wife. He applied the name to the territory that was explored in that year.

The area is very remote, even for Antarctica. Because of this, most of it (the east part of 150°W) has not been claimed by any country. The territory is not a nation itself. Because of this, it is the largest single unclaimed territory on Earth. Together with Eights Coast, immediately to the east of Marie Byrd Land, it has an area of 1,610,000 km².

In 1939, US President Franklin D. Roosevelt told members of an Antarctic expedition to claim some Antarctic territory. Members of this expedition and later ones seemed to do so, but no official claims were made before 1959, when the Antarctic Treaty System was set up. Some maps in the United States have shown this as US territory. The Defense Department of the US Government has also said that there was a solid basis for a claim for the territory. This was because of the activities there before 1959. 

The portion west of 150°W is part of Ross Dependency.

There are five areas, which are listed from west to east:

[[American Ornithologists' Union]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

The American Ornithologists' Union (AOU) is an ornithological organization. It is found in the USA. Its members are mainly professional ornithologists. It is similar to the National Audubon Society, except its members are mainly amateur birders. It is a member of the Ornithological Council.

It was founded in September 1883 by Elliott Coues, Joel Asaph Allen, and William Brewster.

It has a journal, called The Auk. It is published four times a year. It has been published since January, 1884. Some of its other big publications are the AOU Checklist of North American Birds and a series, Ornithological Monographs. The AOU Checklist of North American Birds is the standard reference for the field.

The South American Classification Committee (SACC) is a committee under the AOU. It deals with creating a standard classification, with English names. This is for the bird species of South America.

[[Freedom, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Hampshire

Freedom is a small town in the U.S. state of New Hampshire. It is near the Ossipee lake shores.

[[Constantinople Conference]]

CATEGORIES: 1870s in Europe, 1876, 1877, History of Turkey

The 1876–1877 Constantinople Conference (or ‘Shipyard Palace Conference’, from the conference venue) of the Great Powers (Britain, Russia, France, Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy) was held in Istanbul (Constantinople) from 23 December 1876 until 20 January 1877.  Following the Herzegovinian Rebellion started in 1875 and the Bulgarian Uprising in April 1876, the Great Powers agreed on a project for political reforms both in Bosnia and in the Ottoman territories with a majority Bulgarian population.

[[Demetri Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from New York City, Comedians from New Jersey, American movie actors, American stand-up comedians, American television actors, American television personalities, American television producers, American television writers, Comedy Central personalities, Writers from New Jersey, Writers from New York City, Comedians from New York City

Demetri Martin (born May 25, 1973) is a Greek-American comedian, actor, artist, musician, writer and humorist. He was born in New York City and grew up in Toms River, New Jersey. 

Martin is best known for his work as a stand-up comedian and as a contributor on The Daily Show. He hosted his own show on Comedy Central called Important Things with Demetri Martin.

[[Indian Removal Act]]

CATEGORIES: 1830 in the United States, Andrew Jackson, United States federal legislation, Native American

The Indian Removal Act was a law in the United States that was passed in 1830. It was introduced by Hugh White and became a law when President Andrew Jackson signed it. It gave the President the power to force Native American tribes to move to land west of the Mississippi River. Not all American citizens liked the law. Davy Crockett, a Congressman from Tennessee, hated the law. Some tribes signed treaties with the United States and moved; others fought with the government, including the Cherokee Nations, which was forced to march west in 1838. Their trip west is now called the "Trail of Tears".

[[John Wall]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, American basketball players, Washington Wizards players, Sportspeople from North Carolina, Living people

John Wall (born September 6, 1990) is an American basketball player who plays the position of point guard for the Washington Wizards of the NBA. He is 6'4", and played college basketball for the University of Kentucky before joining the NBA. On April 7, 2010, he announced that he will enter the 2010 NBA Draft after playing in college for one year. The Washington Wizards chose Wall with the first pick in the NBA Draft on June 24, 2010.

The hip-hop group, Troop 41 released the single, "Do the John Wall" which features the "John Wall dance", where the person flexes their arms and twists their wrists.

[[Don Goodman]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Leeds

Don Goodman (born 9 May 1966) is a former English football player.

[[Ricardo Cabanas]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Swiss footballers, Sportspeople from Zürich

Ricardo Cabanas (born 17 January 1979) is a Swiss football player. He plays for Grasshopper Zürich.

[[Yuki Maki]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Yuki Maki (born 26 June 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagoya Grampus Eight.

[[Casting Crowns]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, Christian rock bands, Musical groups from Florida, 1999 establishments in the United States, Musical groups established in 1999, 1990s establishments in Florida

Casting Crowns is a Grammy Award winning Christian rock band. Casting Crowns was started in 1999 by a pastor named Mark Hall in Downtown Daytona Beach, Florida as part of a youth group. Later, they moved to Georgia and more members joined, creating the band that is now known as Casting Crowns.  Some members of the band currently work as ministers for Eagles Landing First Baptist Church.

[[Shigeyoshi Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1971 deaths, Footballers from Fukushima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan national football team managers

Shigeyoshi Suzuki was a Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team. He also managed the Japan national team.

[[Danny Blind]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Eredivisie managers, People from Vlissingen, Sportspeople from Zeeland

Danny Blind (born 1 August 1961) is a former Dutch football player. He played for Netherlands national team. His son, Daley Blind, plays for Manchester United and the Netherlands national team.

[[The Zephyr Song]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 songs, Red Hot Chili Peppers songs

"The Zephyr Song" is a song by the Red Hot Chili Peppers. It is the second single from the band's eighth studio album, By the Way, released on August 17, 2002.

[[Amtrak]]

CATEGORIES: Amtrak

Amtrak is a passenger train company in the United States.  It uses trains to carry people between cities. The United States Government owns it.

[[Dirk Lehmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, German footballers, People from Aachen, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Dirk Lehmann (born 16 August 1971) is a former German football player.

[[José Roberto de Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

José Roberto de Oliveira (born 9 December 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Schalke.

[[Robert Pereira da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Robert Pereira da Silva (born 10 April 1985) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Atlético Clube Goianiense]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Goiás

Atlético Goianiense is a Brazilian soccer club.

[[José Ricardo dos Santos Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Paraíba

José Ricardo dos Santos Oliveira (born 19 May 1984) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Botafogo-SP.

[[Paulo Jamelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Paulo Roberto Jamelli Júnior (born 22 July 1974) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Eugène Terre'Blanche]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2010 deaths, Afrikaner people, Murder victims, People convicted of assault, People convicted of attempted murder, South African politicians

Eugène Ney Terre'Blanche (January 31, 1941 – April 3, 2010) was a Boer-Afrikaner who founded the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging (AWB). He was born in Ventersdorp, South Africa. During the apartheid regime, and afterwards, he fought for Afrikaner separatism. He had convictions for illegally possessing weapons, assault and attempted murder. He was murdered in Ventersdorp at age 69 by two black males in 2010 while he was taking a nap. He left behind a widow named Martie and a daughter Bea.

Other South African politicians, whites and blacks, have reacted to the killings in shock. Black politicians have send their condolences to the family of Terre'Blanche. The murder resulted in racial tensions, but the AWB asked its members not to use violence and stay calm.

The murderers of Terre'Blanche said they worked for him on his farm. They claimed he could not pay them and so they killed him and took his money. They hit him with machetes, knobkiris and iron pipes, and pulled down his trousers.

[[Emperor Kōshō]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Kōshō was the 5th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider Emperor Kōshō to be a legendary person, and the name Kōshō-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

The Gukanshō records that Kōshō ruled from the palace of Ikekokoro-no-miya at Waki-no-kami in what will come to be known as Yamato province.

[[Emperor Kōan]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Kōan was the 6th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider Emperor Kōan to be a legendary person; and the name Kōan-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty. 

The Gukanshō ruled from the palace of Akitsushima-no-miya at Muro in what will come to be known as Yamato province. 

[[Emperor Kōrei]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Kōrei was the 7th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Historians consider Emperor Kōrei to be a legendary person; and the name Kōrei-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations. 

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty. 

The Gukanshō records that Kōrei ruled from the palace of Ihoto-no-miya at Kuroda in what will come to be known as Yamato province. 

[[Roanoke Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of the United States, Geography of North Carolina

Roanoke Island is an island that is part of Dare County, North Carolina.

[[Transcontinental Railroad]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United States

The Transcontinental Railroad was a railroad built across the United States of America. The building of it started when Abraham Lincoln signed the Pacific Railroad Act of 1862 into law during the American Civil War.     

Much of it was built by the Central Pacific Railroad, building east from Sacramento, California, and the Union Pacific Railroad building West from Omaha, Nebraska. The two railroads met at Promontory Summit, Utah on May 10 in the year 1869. Much of it was built by people who came to the U.S. from China and Ireland.  It cut the time to go across the United States from months to weeks and later days.  At the time of its completion, it was one of the longest railroads in the world.

[[Emperor Kōgen]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Kōgen was the 8th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Historians consider Emperor Kōgen to be a legendary person; and the name Kōgen-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty. 

The Gukanshō records that Kōgen ruled from the palace of Sakaihara-no-miya at Karu in what will come to be known as Yamato province.

[[Gukanshō]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, 13th century books

Gukanshō is a Japanese historical and literary work about the history of the country. The work was written around 1220 by a Buddhist priest.  The author's name was Jien.

In Gukanshō, Jien created a chronicle of the lives of the emperors. Jien wrote about political and military conflicts within the Imperial court.  He wrote about disputes with others outside the court.

[[Emperor Kaika]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Kaika is the 9th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider Emperor Kaika to be a legendary person; and the name Kaika-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to the emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty. 

The Gukanshō records that Kaika ruled from the palace of Isakawa-no-miya at Kasuga in what will come to be known as Yamato province.

[[Emperor Sujin]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Sujin was the 10th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Historians consider Emperor Sujin to be a legendary person; and the name Sujin-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

The Gukanshō records that Sujin ruled from the palace of Mizogaki-no-miya at Shiki in what will come to be known Yamato province.

[[Soda bread]]

CATEGORIES: Breads, Irish food

Soda bread is a kind of soft, golden bread made with baking soda. In its most basic form it contains only four ingredients; flour, salt, baking soda, and buttermilk. It can be changed when you add other ingredients. For instance, if you add a little sugar, some raisins, then cut in some butter, it may become a Raisin soda bread.

[[Anne of Denmark]]

CATEGORIES: 1574 births, 1619 deaths, Kings and Queens consort of England

Anne of Denmark (12 December 1574 – 2 March 1619) was queen consort of Scotland, England, and Ireland. She was the wife of King James VI and I.

Anne, the second daughter of King Frederick II of Denmark, married James in 1589 when she was 15 years old. She gave birth to seven children but only three lived to become adults. One of these children was the future Charles I. She often used Scottish politics when she fought with James about her son, Prince Henry. She also used them in her arguments about his treatment of her friend Beatrix Ruthven. Anne seems to have loved James at first. However, they later became cooler towards one another and lived separately. However, though they both had respect and even some love for one another.

In England, Anne was more interested in art than politics. She built a beautiful and culturally rich court of her own. After 1612, she became ill and later stopped being in the center of court life. She was said to have died a Protestant. However, some proof suggests that she may have been a Catholic at some time in her life.

Historians have often thought of Anne as a queen who was light, selfish, and not very important. Recently, however, many people point out Anne's independence and importance as an encourager of the arts in the Jacobean age.

[[Henry Frederick, Prince of Wales]]

CATEGORIES: House of Stuart, 1594 births, 1612 deaths, Deaths from typhoid fever

Henry Frederick, Prince of Wales (19 February 1594 – 6 November 1612) was the oldest son of King James I & VI and Anne of Denmark. His name comes from grandfathers Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley and Frederick II of Denmark.

Prince Henry was widely seen as a bright heir to his father's throne. However, he died before his father because of typhoid fever. Because of this, the English and Scottish thrones' power went to his younger brother Charles.

Several places in Virginia Colony were named in honor of Prince Henry before and after his death.

[[Maurício Rodrigues Alves Domingues]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Maurício Rodrigues Alves Domingues (born 3 July 1978) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Donald-Olivier Sié]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Ivorian footballers

Donald-Olivier Sié (born 3 April 1970) is a former Côte d'Ivoire football player. He has played for Côte d'Ivoire national team.

[[Adriano Pimenta]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian footballers, 1982 births, Living people, Goiânia

Adriano Pimenta (born 14 November 1982) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Sport Recife.

[[Marc Wilmots]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Belgian footballers, Belgian football managers, People from Walloon Brabant

Marc Wilmots (born 22 February 1969) is a Belgian football manager and former football player. He played for the Belgian national team.

[[Taro Ichiki]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Taro Ichiki (born 1 September 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Oséas]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Salvador, Bahia

Oséas Reis dos Santos (born 14 May 1971) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Hidetoki Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2000 deaths, Footballers from Fukushima Prefecture, Japanese football managers, Kashiwa Reysol players, Japan national football team managers

Hidetoki Takahashi was a Japanese football player and manager. He managed for Japan national team.

[[Flavio Elias Cordeiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Flavio Elias Cordeiro (born 23 April 1975) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Kim Geun-Chol]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Kim Geun-Chol (born 24 June 1983) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Censorship by Google]]

CATEGORIES: Google, Censorship

Censorship by Google refers to Google's removal of information from its services to comply with censorship laws, company policies, etc. In 2002, Google censored search results about Scientology.March 2012

[[Myoglobin]]

CATEGORIES: Proteins, Iron compounds

Myoglobin is a protein that is able to bind oxygen. Myoglobin, which is similar to haemoglobin, is the main oxygen-carrying pigment of muscle tissues. Like haemoglobin, it has a porphyrin ring with an iron atom at its centre. It is in the muscle tissue of most mammals. Seals and other marine mammals have more myoglobin in their muscles than land animals. 

In humans, increased level of myoglobin in the serum of the blood can be an indication of myocardial infarction. Other factors for a higher level can be damage to the muscles, epileptic seizures, polytrauma. If the value is much too high, this can lead to kidney failure.

[[Proxy marriage]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage

A proxy marriage is when two people are getting married separately, but are getting married to one another. It was common for European kings and nobles to be wed by proxy marriage. Napoleon I of France was wed by proxy marriage to Marie Louise, Duchess of Parma. Catherine of Aragon wed Prince Arthur by proxy. A famous 17th-century painting by Peter Paul Rubens shows the proxy marriage of Marie de Medici. 

Today, this form of marriage is illegal in most countries, or it requires a special permit. It is still legal in some US states, and in a few Islamic countries 

[[Hyperkalemia]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

Hyperkalemia is a medical term to indicate that the level of potassium in the blood is too high. Depending on the level of potassium in the blood, this can be a medical emergency. A level that is too high can lead to abnormal hearth rhythms. 

Many medications can cause hyperkalemia, and it is much more likely to occur in people kidney problems.

Although hyperkalemia often doesn't cause symptoms, doctors worry about hyperkalemia because it can cause a sudden change of heart rhythm in people who had not been having any symptoms.  These abnormal heart rhythms can be deadly.

In the cases where death penalty is carried out using lethal injection, a hyperkalemia may be provoked atificially. Some of the mixtures used in the injections contain potassium chloride which will raise the level of potassium in the blood considerably.

[[Sophie of Mecklenburg-Güstrow]]

CATEGORIES: 1557 births, 1631 deaths, Kings and Queens of Denmark, Kings and Queens consort

Sophie of Mecklenburg-Güstrow (4 September 1557, Wismar – 14 October 1631, Nykoping) was a German queen of Denmark and Norway. She was the mother of King Christian IV of Denmark and Anne of Denmark.

[[Frederick II of Denmark]]

CATEGORIES: 1534 births, 1588 deaths, Kings and Queens of Denmark, Kings and Queens of Norway

Frederick II (1 July 1534 – 4 April 1588), was the king of Denmark-Norway and duke of Schleswig from 1559 until his death. He was the son of King Christian III of Denmark and Norway and Dorothea of Saxe-Lauenburg. He is often seen as the typical Renaissance ruler of Denmark. As a person Frederick was described as hot-headed, proud, brave, and ambitious. He loved hunting, wine and feasts. At his death lots of people thought that he had drunk himself to death.

He built Kronborg castle in Elsinore again between 1574 and 1585. In 1567 he began Fredrikstad in Norway. This was a time of wealth and growth in Danish history.

[[Emperor Suinin]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Suinin was the 11th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider Emperor Suinin to be a legendary person; and the name Suinin-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty. 

The Gukanshō records that Suinin he ruled from the palace of Tamaki-no-miya at Makimuku in what will come to be known as Yamato province.

[[Freudenberg]]

Freudenberg can refer to several things:

[[Lisa Della Casa]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2012 deaths, European opera singers, Sopranos, Swiss singers

Lisa Della Casa (born Burgdorf, Switzerland, 2 February 1919 – 10 December 2012 Münsterlingen, Switzerland) was a Swiss soprano.  She was famous from the 1950s to the mid- 1970s for singing some of the great roles in the operas of Mozart and Richard Strauss.  She was known for the naturalness of her singing as well as for her beauty.

[[Samoyed (dog)]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The Samoyed is a dog breed that are usually white in color but they can be grey or cream too. They can get between 2-3 feet in height. The Samoyed breed is known for having a curled tail, much like a Husky. They have a thick coat of fur to protect them from the cold because they were used to drag sleighs in the cold. Samoyeds are really friendly, so they will not make good guard dogs because they are too cute and fluffy and are really friendly.

[[Emperor Hanzei]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Hanzei was the 18th emperor of Japan,  according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Hanzei to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Hanzei-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Title role]]

CATEGORIES: Performing arts

The title role in a play or an opera is the role (the part) which is also the title of the play or opera. 

We say that the actor, singer or dancer who performs that part has the title role.  For example: in the opera Carmen by Georges Bizet the part played by the girl called Carmen is the "title role".  We may say that a singer took the title role in the opera Carmen.  That means that she sang the part of Carmen in the opera.

The title role is not necessarily the most important role in the play or opera, although it often is.

A few other well-known examples in which the performance is named after one of the characters include the operas Aida (by Giuseppe Verdi), Madame Butterfly (by Giacomo Puccini) and Peter Grimes (by Benjamin Britten), the ballets Coppélia (by Léo Delibes) or Petrushka (by Stravinsky), or the plays Othello or Hamlet (by William Shakespeare).

The title character is the  character whose name is in the title (or suggested in the title), such as Harry Potter in Harry Potter books by J.K. Rowling, or Simba in Disney's The Lion King (Simba is the Lion King).

"Title character" always refers to a character.

[[Character actor]]

CATEGORIES: Actors

A character actor is an actor who plays a particular kind of character in a play, movie, television program, opera or ballet.  The character actor is not the main part.  He is not the lover or hero.  He has a character which helps to support the main characters and therefore the story.

Character roles may be roles such as: the faithful servant, the maid, the villain, the mother-in-law, the priest etc.  They may or may not be comic characters.

For example, in The Wizard of Oz the main character is Dorothy.  The Scarecrow, the Lion and the Tin Man are character roles.

Some actors or singers prefer character roles to main roles.  It may be because this kind or role suits their personality or their singing voice.  Some people nearly always play the same kind of character role.  We say that people like that are "typecast".  Some actors are happy to remain typecast.  Others may wish to broaden their repertoire and take on different roles.

[[Giulio Caccini]]

CATEGORIES: 1551 births, 1618 deaths, Italian composers, Baroque composers, Renaissance composers

Giulio Caccini (born Rome, 8 October 1551; died Florence, 10 December 1618), also known as Giulio Romano, was an Italian composer and singer. He lived at the very end of Renaissance period and the beginning of the Baroque period. It was the time when opera was starting, and he was one of the first composers to write an opera. His daughter, Francesca Caccini, also became a composer.

[[Free Soil Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States

The Free Soil Party was, for a short duration, a political party in the United States. It was active in the 1848 and 1852 president elections, and in some state elections. It got lots of its strength from New York. Most of the important party members were former anti-slavery  members of the Whig Party and the Democratic Party. Its main purpose was stopping slavery from spreading into the western lands, arguing that free men on free soil had a morally and economically better system than slavery.  Also, many workers feared that slave labor would take away work for white workers.

The party membership was largely taken over by the Republican Party in 1854.

[[The Jungle]]

CATEGORIES: English-language novels, History of Chicago, 1906 books

The Jungle is a 1906 novel written by journalist Upton Sinclair. Inspired by the Union Stock Yards in Chicago, Sinclair wrote this book to show the sufferings of the working class and to show the corruption of the American meatpacking industry during the early-20th century. The book writes about the poverty, bad living and working conditions, and sorrow among the working class. The sad state of turn-of-the-century work is placed for the American public to see, suggesting that something needed to be changed to get rid of American "wage slavery". The novel is also an important example of the "muckraking" tradition begun by journalists such as Jacob Riis.

Upton Sinclair came to Chicago with hopes of writing The Jungle. When he came to the lobby of the Chicago Transit House, a hotel, he was quoted as saying, "Hello! I'm Upton Sinclair, and I'm here to write the Uncle Tom's Cabin of the Labor Movement!". He rented living quarters and immediately began walking its streets, talking to its people and taking pictures. One Sunday afternoon, he worked his way into a group of Lithuanian immigrants getting together for a wedding party, "Behold, there was the opening scene of my story, a gift from the gods". He was welcomed there and was with them until two in the morning.

The Jungle was first published in a series in 1905. "After five rejections", its first edition as a book was published by Doubleday, Page & Company on February 28, 1906, and it became an immediate best seller and has been in print ever since.

[[Emperor Keikō]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Keikō was the 12th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Historians consider Emperor Keikō to be a legendary person; and the name Keikō-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty. 

[[James Francis Edward Stuart]]

CATEGORIES: 1688 births, 1766 deaths, British Roman Catholics, House of Stuart, Jacobite pretenders

James, Prince of Wales (known as James Francis Edward Stuart; "The Old Pretender" or "The Old Chevalier"; 10 June 1688 – 1 January 1766) was the son of James II of England (James VII of Scotland) and his second wife, Mary of Modena. Because of this, he claimed the English, Scottish and Irish thrones (as James III of England and Ireland and James VIII of Scotland) from the death of his father in 1701. He was proclaimed king of England, Scotland and Ireland by his cousin Louis XIV of France. When he died in 1766 in Rome, his son, Charles Edward Stuart, followed him in the Jacobite Succession. 

[[Prince of Orange]]

CATEGORIES: House of Bourbon, House of Hohenzollern, House of Orange-Nassau, Princes and princesses, States of the Holy Roman Empire

Prince of Orange is a title of nobility.

The title is used by members of the House of Orange-Nassau, as heirs to the crown of the Netherlands. It also used by members of the House of Hohenzollern. At the moment, the title is used by Prince Willem-Alexander of the Netherlands (Orange-Nassau), Georg Friedrich, Prince of Prussia (Hohenzollern) and Guy, Marquis de Mailly-Neslé, Prince d'Orange.

[[Danny Jacobs (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American voice actors, American comedians, American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from Michigan, Actors from Detroit, Michigan

Daniel Charles  Jacobs, Jr. (born July 7, 1968) is an American actor, singer, voice artist, and comedian, best known as the voice of King Julien in the Madagascar franchise, substituting for Sacha Baron Cohen since 2008. In Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted (2012), he provided Julien's singing voice in the soundtrack.

[[Invitation to William]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century in England, 1688, 1680s in Europe

The Invitation to William was a letter sent by seven famous Englishmen. They were later named the Immortal Seven. They sent this letter to William III, Prince of Orange, received by him on 30 June 1688 (Julian calendar, 10 July Gregorian calendar). In England a Catholic male heir to the throne, James Francis Edward Stuart, had been born. The letter asked William to force the ruling king, his father-in-law James II of England to make William's Protestant wife Mary, James's oldest daughter, the heir. This might possibly be done by saying that the newborn Prince of Wales was not really James' son.

The letter told William that if he were to land in England with a small army, they would rise up and support him. The Invitation shortly told him about their complaints against King James. They said that the King's son was not really the King's son and that the English people generally believed him to be false. They complained that William had sent a letter to James congratulating him on the birth of his son. It was carried to William in The Hague by Rear Admiral Arthur Herbert (the later Lord Torrington) disguised as a common sailor. It was read by a secret code.

The invitation made William decide to carry out his existing plans to land with a large Dutch army. This ended in the Glorious Revolution.  James was allowed to escape and was replaced by William and Mary as joint rulers.

[[Válber Costa]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Válber da Silva Costa (born 6 December 1971) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Royal house]]

CATEGORIES: Royalty and nobility

A royal house or royal dynasty is a family title, or family name of sorts. It is used by royalty.  It usually means the members of a family in old and young people, who are loosely related. Unlike most western people, a great number of the world's royal families do not have family names, and those that have them do not use them often.  They are referred to instead by their titles, often related to an area ruled or once ruled by that family. Royal Houses still exist today.

[[Andre Luis Neitzke]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Andre Luis Neitzke (born 24 November 1986) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Yu Hasegawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Yu Hasegawa (born 5 June 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.

[[Alex Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alexandro Marques de Oliveira (born 17 June 1978) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Leandro Cesar de Souza]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Leandro Cesar de Souza (born 6 July 1979) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Hiroshi Hirakawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Yokohama Flügels players, Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo players

Hiroshi Hirakawa is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Satoshi Tezuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, Japan Soccer League players, Shonan Bellmare players

Satoshi Tezuka is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hiromitsu Horiike]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Hiromitsu Horiike is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Toshihiro Uchida]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Toshihiro Uchida (born 12 August 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kim Yong-sik]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1985 deaths, Japanese footballers, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Kim Yong-Sik (July 25, 1910 - March 5, 1985) was a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player and coach. He was a member of the Japanese national team and the Korean national team.  He competed in two Summer Olympic Games.

[[Understudy]]

CATEGORIES: Theater, Opera

In theater, an understudy is an actor or singer who studies the part of one of the main actors or singers in cases when they can't perform.

If a main performer is unable to perform, the understudy will take their place. The understudy is often a member of the chorus who might have had a small part in the performance anyway.  Sometimes an understudy is called a "standby".  A standby is usually not a member of the chorus or ensemble.  They may be required to be present in the theatre during the performance, or part of it, in case of a problem.

Sometimes an understudy will become famous when they unexpectedly have to perform instead of the usual lead person.

[[Lady Anne Hyde]]

CATEGORIES: 1638 births, 1671 deaths, British royalty

Lady Anne Hyde, Duchess of York (22 March 1638 – 31 March 1671) was the first wife of James, Duke of York (the future King James II of England and VII of Scotland). She was also and the mother of two queens, Mary II of England and Scotland and Anne of Great Britain.

[[Bill of Rights 1689]]

CATEGORIES: 17th century in England, British monarchy, Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, 1689, 1680s in Europe

The Bill of Rights (a short title) is an act of the Parliament of England. Its full name is The Act Declaring the Rights and Liberties of the Subject and Settling the Succession of the Crown. It is often called the English Bill of Rights. The Bill of Rights was passed by Parliament in December 1689. It provides many of the rights requested in the Petition of Right in February after the overthrow of James II of England in the Glorious Revolution, and is still in effect today.

[[Wilhelm Steinitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 births, 1900 deaths, American chess players, Austrian Jews, Austrian sportspeople, Czech Jews, Jewish American sportspeople, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Sportspeople from Prague

Wilhelm (later William) Steinitz (Prague, 17 May 1836 – New York, 12 August 1900) was an Austrian chess grandmaster who emigrated first to London, then to the USA.

He was the first undisputed World Chess Champion and held it from 1886 to 1894, unoficially from 1872. 

Steinitz won the title by beating Johannes Zukertort in a match in 1886. He lost it to Emanuel Lasker in 1894. He also lost a rematch with Lasker in 1897.

[[Steinitz]]

Steinitz is the surname of several notable people:

[[Emperor Seimu]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Seimu was the 13th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider Emperor Seimu to be a legendary  person, and the name Seimu-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty. 

[[List of chess terms]]

CATEGORIES: Chess lists, Glossaries

List of chess terms: in alphabetical order.

[[Emperor Chūai]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Chūai was  the 14th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider Emperor Chūai to be a legendary person, and the name Chūai-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Empress Jingū]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Empress Jingū, also known as Empress-consort Jingū was a legendary empress of Japan. Although her name was once included in the traditional order of succession, she is now considered as a regent.

Historians consider details about the life of Empress Jingū to be mythical; and the name Jingū-tennō was created for her posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this empress's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Hypermodern]]

CATEGORIES: Chess

The hypermoderns were a school of chess players who set out to rethink some of the principles of chess openings. The name was given to them by the Polish-French grandmaster Tartakower.

The key idea was, in reaction to the older ideas of Siegbert Tarrasch, to dispute control of the centre by more subtle methods. Whereas old theory was to occupy the centre with two or three pawns immediately, the hypermoderns concentrated more on attacking the opponent's centre. A characteristic first move was 1Nf3 with White, or 1...Nf6 with Black, especially in reply to 1d4. To 1e4 they favoured an asymmetric defence such as 1...e6 or 1...c5 rather than the classical reply 1...e5. 

Nimzovich was the founder, and Alekhine, Tartakower, Réti, Grünfeld, and  Bogolyubov all took part. All were top grandmasters of the 1920s and 30s. Several modern openings owe their popularity to this group: Alekhine's Defence (1e4 Nf6); Réti's Opening (1Nf3); the King's Indian Defence (1d4 Nf6 2c4 g6 3Nc3 Bg7); the Grünfeld Defence (1d4 Bf6 2c4 g6 3Nc3 d5) and the Modern Defence (1...g6).p178

[[Confidence interval]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

In statistics, a confidence interval, abbreviated as CI, is a special interval for estimating a certain parameter, such as the population mean. With this method, a whole interval of acceptable values for the parameter is given instead of a single value—together with a likelihood that the real (unknown) value of the parameter will be in the interval. Thus, if we're not sure of the exact number of vehicles that crossed a bridge, we can say 400 plus or minus 10 instead of just saying 400. 

The confidence interval is based on the observations from a sample, and hence differs from sample to sample. The likelihood that the parameter will be in the interval is called the confidence level, and the end points of the confidence interval are referred to as confidence limits. 

Very often, this is given as a percentage (for example, the 95% confidence interval). The confidence interval is always given together with the confidence level.  For a given estimation procedure in a given situation, the higher the confidence level, the wider the confidence interval will be.

The calculation of a confidence interval generally requires assumptions about the nature of the estimation process, since it is primarily a parametric method. One common assumption is that the distribution of the population from which the sample came is normal. As such, confidence intervals as discussed below are not robust statistics, though changes can be made to add robustness.

[[Emperor Richū]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Richū was the 17th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Richū to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Richū-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations. 

Some scholars identify him with King San in the Book of Song. King San sent messengers to the Song Dynasty at least twice in 421 and 425; and this historical person was succeeded by his younger brother.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty. 

[[Jacobitism]]

CATEGORIES: Jacobitism

Jacobitism was (and, to a much smaller extent, is) the political movement that tried to put the Stuart kings back onto the thrones of England, Scotland, and Kingdom of Ireland. The movement took its name from the Latin form Jacobus of the name of King James II and VII.

Jacobitism began after the deposition of James II and VII in 1688. He was replaced by his daughter Mary II jointly with her husband and first cousin William of Orange. The Stuarts lived on the European mainland after that, sometimes trying to get back the throne with the help of France or Spain. The most important places of Jacobitism were Ireland and Scotland, especially the Scottish Highlands. In England, Jacobitism was strongest in the north, and some support was also in Wales.

A great number of Catholic people liked Jacobitism. They hoped the Stuarts would end bad laws. Lots of different helped the military campaigns for all sorts of reasons. In Scotland the Jacobite cause became a lasting romantic memory.

[[Tadao Horie]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2003 deaths, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Tadao Horie was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Maksim Shatskikh]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Uzbekistani people, Asian footballers

Maksim Shatskikh (born 30 August 1978) is a Uzbekistani football player. He plays for Arsenal Kyiv and Uzbekistan national team.

[[John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough]]

CATEGORIES: 1650 births, 1722 deaths, British Army generals, English Barons, English Earls, English Dukes, Scottish nobility

John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough KG PC (26 May 1650 – 16 June 1722) was an important English soldier and statesman. He lived through the rules of five monarchs through the late 17th and early 18th centuries. Rising from a lowly page at the court of the House of Stuart, he faithfully served the Duke of York through the 1670s and early 1680s. This gave him military and political advancement through his brave, clever skill. Churchill helped secure James on the throne. 

However, just three years later he left his Catholic teacher for the Protestant Dutchman, William of Orange. For his help in the Glorious Revolution, William at his coronation made him Earl of Marlborough (pronounced /'mɔ:l bəɹə/). He served in the early years of the Nine Years' War and became famous. However, charges of Jacobitism made him fall from office. For some time, he was imprisoned in the Tower. When Queen Anne came to throne in 1702, however, Marlborough secured his fame and lots of money.

His marriage to the quick-tempered Sarah Jennings – Anne's close friend – helped Marlborough's rise. He first became the Captain-Generalcy of British forces. Then he became a duke. Later, he became the richest of all Anne's subjects. Although in the end he could not completely crush his enemies, his victories allowed Britain to rise to very great power. Through him, the country grew more and more rich through the 18th century.

[[Pierre Njanka]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Cameroonian footballers

Pierre Njanka (born 15 March 1975) is a Cameroonian football player. He has played for Cameroon national team.

[[Rigobert Song]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Cameroonian footballers

Rigobert Song Bahanag (born 1 July 1976) is a former Cameroonian football player. He played for Trabzonspor and the Cameroonian national team. He is the first African who has played in four World Cups.

[[Wolfgang Feiersinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Wolfgang Feiersinger (born 30 January 1965) is a former Austrian football player. He has played for Austria national team.

[[Ernst Happel]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1992 deaths, Austria national football team managers, Austrian football managers, Austrian footballers, Sportspeople from Vienna, Players of the Austrian national football team, Eredivisie managers

Ernst Franz Hermann Happel (29 November 1925 – 14 November 1992) was a former Austrian football player and football coach. He has played for SK Rapid Wien, RC Paris and the Austria national team.

[[Baboon]]

CATEGORIES: Old World monkeys

Baboons are monkeys of the genus Papio. They are one of the largest kinds of monkey. It is an intelligent Old World monkey. It lives on the ground in groups called troops. Troops can be as small as a few baboons or as big as several hundred members.

[[Friedrich Koncilia]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Association football goalkeepers, People from Klagenfurt, Players of the Austrian national football team

Friedrich (Friedl) Koncilia (born 25 February 1948) is a former Austrian football player mainly for FK Austria Wien. He has also played for Austria national team.

[[Toni Polster]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team

Toni Polster (born 10 March 1964) is a former Austrian football player. He has played for Austria national team.

[[Daisuke Saito (born in 1980)]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Daisuke Saito (born 29 August 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vegalta Sendai.

[[Daisuke Saito]]

Daisuke Saito can refer to:

[[Naohito Hirai]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Naohito Hirai  is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football or soccer player.

[[Emperor Nintoku]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Nintoku was the 16th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Nintoku to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Nintoku-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Irukandji jellyfish]]

CATEGORIES: Animals of Australia, Jellyfish

The Irukandji Jellyfish, Carukia barnesi, is a species of jellyfish. It lives in the waters of northern Australia. It is a very deadly jellyfish. The Irukandji is only 2.5 centimeters (with bell and tentacles) in diameter. This makes it hard to find. The Irukandji is believed to be the most poisonous creature in the world. Some people are not sure if that is true.

The Irukandjis' name comes from an Australian Aboriginal tribe. The tribe lived in the Palm Cove region of North Queensland. When the Irukandji people were stung by the Irukandji, there are many symptoms. This includes:

Sometimes, people may also get fluid on their lungs (pulmonary oedema), hypertension, and heart  failure.

The Irukandji has killed at least two swimmers in Australia. In 2002, Richard Jordon came to Australia as a tourist. He was a 58 year old British man. He was stung while swimming off Hamilton Island. Jordon died a few days later. There may have been more deaths which doctors did not know were caused by the jellyfish.

The Irukandji is related to another jellyfish. This is the box jellyfish, Chironex Fleckeri. Irukandji was identified in 1964 by a Cairns doctor, Jack Barnes. Because of this, its scientific name is named after him. When people were getting hurt in the sea, Barnes was sure it was because of a jellyfish. He put on diving equipment and lay on the sea floor for six days until he discovered it. When Barnes discovered the Irukandji jellyfish, he tested its sting on himself, his son, and a lifeguard. They all had to be taken to the hospital.

Irukandji has stingers – not only on its tentacles, but also on its bell. It is very small and weak. Because of this, sudden force may kill it. So, it cannot be kept in a normal aquarium. The first Irukandji jellyfish in captivity was born in Townsville, Queensland.

[[Emperor Yūryaku]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Yūryaku was the 21st emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Yūryaku to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Yūryaku-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Kia Carens]]

CATEGORIES: Kia automobiles

The Kia Carens is a MPV produced by Kia Motors in 1999 and 2019. It is now in its Third generation, and is called Kia Rondo on the North American market.

[[Renault FR1]]

CATEGORIES: Renault automobiles, Buses

The Renault FR1 is a bus produced by Renault from 1987 to 1997. 

The FR1 has a 9.8 litre 6-cylinder turbo diesel engine with 223 kW/303 hp or 250 kW/340 hp respectively.

In 1997, the FR1 received a facelift and were renamed Renault Iliade.

[[Kia Soul]]

CATEGORIES: Kia automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Kia Soul is a car produced by Kia since 2008. It is based on the Hyundai i20 and Kia Venga's platform. It entered its second generation in 2013. 

The Soul is available with 1.6 and 2.0 litre petrol engines with 93 kW/126 hp and 106 kW/144 hp respectively, and a 1.6 litre turbo diesel engine with 94 kW/128 hp.

[[Kia Rio]]

CATEGORIES: Kia automobiles

The Kia Rio is a car produced by Kia Motors.

The first generation were produced from 2000 to 2005, and were available with 1.3 and 1.5 litre petrol engines with 55 kW/75 hp and 72 kW/98 hp respectively.

The second generation were launched in 2005, and is available with a 1.4 litre petrol engine in two versions with 55 kW/75 hp and 71 kW/97 hp respectively, a 1.6 litre petrol engine with 82 kW/112 hp and a 1.5 litre turbo diesel engine with 81 kW/110 hp. It is based on the Hyundai Getz's platform.

Both generations are available as 4-door saloon and 5-door hatchback.

[[Kia Magentis]]

CATEGORIES: Kia automobiles

The Kia Magentis is a car produced by Kia Motors. It is the successor of the Kia Clarus, and is based on the Hyundai Sonata's platform.

The first generation were produced from 2000 to 2006. It is available with a 2.0 litre 4-cylinder petrol engine with 100 kW/136 hp and a 2.5 litre 6-cylinder petrol engine with 124 kW/169 hp.

The second generation were launched in 2006. It were until 2009 available with 2.0 and 2.4 litre 4-cylinder petrol engines with 106 kW/144 hp and 120 kW/163 hp respectively, a 2.7 litre 6-cylinder petrol engine with 139 kW/189 hp and a 2.0 litre 4-cylinder turbo diesel engine with 103 kW/140 hp.

In 2009, the Magentis received a facelift. The engines available are now 2.0 and 2.4 litre 4-cylinder petrol engines with 121 kW/164 hp and 130 kW/175 hp respectively, a 2.7 litre 6-cylinder petrol engine with 142 kW/193 hp and a 2.0 litre 4-cylinder turbo diesel engine with 110 kW/150 hp.

In some counties, the first generation Magentis is known as Kia Lotze, and the second generation as Kia Optima.

[[Kia Carnival]]

CATEGORIES: Kia automobiles

The Kia Carnival is a car produced by Kia.

The first generation were launched in 1999 based on the Ford Windstar's platform. It were available with a 2.5 litre 6-cylinder petrol engine with 121 kW/165 hp and a 2.9 litre 4-cylinder turbo diesel engine with 93 kW/126 hp.

It gets a facelift in 2001, and were available until 2006 with a 2.5 litre 6-cylinder petrol engine with 110 kW/150 hp and a 2.9 litre 4-cylinder turbo diesel engine with 106 kW/144 hp.

In 2006, the second generation were launched based on the Hyundai Entourage's platform. It is available with 2.7 and 3.8 litre 6-cylinder petrol engines with 139 kW/189 hp and 187 kW/254 hp respectively, and a 2.9 litre 4-cylinder turbo diesel engine with 136 kW/185 hp.

[[Kia cee'd]]

CATEGORIES: Kia automobiles

The Kia cee'd is a car produced by Kia since 2006.

It is based on the Hyundai i30's platform, and is available as 3- and 5-door hatchback and 5-door station wagon.

The engines available is 1.4, 1.6 and 2.0 litre petrol engines with 80 kW/109 hp, 92 kW/125 hp and 105 kW/143 hp respectively, a 1.6 litre turbo diesel engine in two versions with 66 kW/90 hp and 85 kW/115 hp respectively, and a 2.0 litre turbo diesel engine with 103 kW/140 hp.

The cee'd received a facelift in 2009. The 1.4 litre petrol engine was changed to 66 kW/90 hp instead of 80 kW/109 hp.

[[Volkswagen Touran]]

CATEGORIES: Volkswagen automobiles

The Volkswagen Touran is a car produced by Volkswagen, launched in 2003.

It is based on the platform of the fifth generation Volkswagen Golf, and were from start available with a 1.6 litre MPI petrol engine with 75 kW/102 hp, 1.6 and 2.0 litre FSI petrol engines with 85 kW/115 hp and 110 kW/150 hp respectively, and 1.9 and 2.0 litre TDI diesel engines with 74 kW/100 hp and 100 kW/136 hp respectively.

The diesel engines received an update in 2004. The 1.9 litre TDI engine are now available in 66 kW/90 hp and 77 kW/105 hp versions, and the 2.0 litre TDI engine has now 103 kW/140 hp.

The Touran received an facelift in late 2006. Both the 1.6 and 2.0 litre FSI petrol engines were replaced by a 1.4 litre TSI petrol engine in 103 kW/140 hp and 125 kW/170 hp versions. The 2.0 litre TDI engine were now also available in a 125 kW/170 hp version.

[[Rade Bogdanović]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Serbian footballers, People from Sarajevo

Rade Bogdanović (born 21 May 1970) is a former Serbian football player. He has played for the Serbian national team.

[[Atsushi Katagiri]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Gifu Prefecture

Atsushi Katagiri (born 1 August 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.

[[Carlos Gamarra]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers

Carlos Gamarra (born 17 February 1971) is a former Paraguayan football player. He has played for Paraguay national team.

[[Flávio Conceição]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Flávio Conceição (born 12 June 1974) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Kei Kinoshita]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Tottori Prefecture

Kei Kinoshita is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player and coach.

[[Nariyasu Yasuhara]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Nariyasu Yasuhara is a former Japanese football player.

[[Masafumi Nakaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Masafumi Nakaguchi (born 10 April 1972) is a former Japanese football player. He manages Sagawa Shiga.

[[Emperor Ankan]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Ankan was the 27th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Ankan to be possibly legendary, but probable.   The name Ankan-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Emperor Senka]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Senka was the 28th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Senka to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Senka-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations. 

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in South Africa, Nationalist organizations in South Africa, Rebel militia groups in Africa, 1973 establishments in Africa, Fascism, 20th-century establishments in South Africa

The Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging (AWB) is a South African political party for the white Afrikaner people, the Boers. It was formed in 1973 by Eugène Terre'Blanche. He   led the party until his death in 2010. It is now led by Steyn van Ronge.

They are a party for the white South Africans who want their own nation. They want to name it Boerestaat. The party is not as extreme as other parties who want to kick out all the black South Africans. The AWB simply wants a state within SA borders.

The AWB also wants to go back to apartheid, or at least some of them want it. And they want to end the killing of white people by black people. The organisation is not violent, but it used to be back in the 1990s.

[[XNOR gate]]

CATEGORIES: Logic gates

The XNOR gate is a logic gate that outputs 1 (true) when both of its inputs are equal. If only one output is high(1) the output is low (0).

It is opposite of XOR GATE.

[[Efim Bogolyubov]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1952 deaths, German chess players, Ukrainian chess players, Chess grandmasters

Efim Bogolyubov  (14 April 1889 – 18 June 1952) was a Ukrainian–German chess grandmaster who won numerous events and played two matches with Alexander Alekhine for the world championship. His weak point, it is said, was over-optimism, but at his best he was one of the world's leading players.p49

[[Imperial Household Agency]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, Japanese imperial family

The Imperial Household Agency is a government agency of Japan. This bureaucracy is concerned with Imperial House of Japan (Japan's imperial family).

Kunaichō keeps the Privy Seal of Japan and the State Seal of Japan.

In the 18 centuries before the Second World War, it was named the Imperial Household Ministry.

The current Grand Steward is Shingo Haketa.

[[Operating environment]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

In computers, an operating environment is the environment in which you can use the operating system with, but is not the whole operating system on its own. For example, Windows 3.x was not considered a full operating system since it ran on top of MS-DOS.

[[Adelong, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Adelong is a small town in the Snowy Mountains region of New South Wales, Australia. It is a part of the Tumut Shire. About 1400 people live in the Adelong district, and 829 people live in the town. The town is about 160 kilometres west of Canberra on the Snowy Mountains Highway. The town's name comes from an Aboriginal word meaning "along the way" or "plain with a river".

[[Cole Porter]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1964 deaths, 20th century composers, American composers, American songwriters, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in California, Gay men, LGBT composers, LGBT people from Indiana, LGBT songwriters, Musicians from Indiana, Writers from Indiana, Yale University alumni

Cole Albert Porter (June 9, 1891 – October 15, 1964) was an American composer and songwriter. He wrote musical comedies like Kiss Me, Kate, Fifty Million Frenchmen, DuBarry Was a Lady and Anything Goes. He also wrote songs like "Night and Day," "I Get a Kick out of You," "Well, Did You Evah!" and "I've Got You Under My Skin." He was well known for his clever lyrics and rhymes. He wrote a lot of songs that are in the Great American Songbook.

[[Jan van Riebeeck]]

CATEGORIES: 1619 births, 1677 deaths, Cape Town, Governors, Politicians from Gelderland

Johan Anthoniszoon "Jan" van Riebeeck (April 21, 1619 – January 18, 1677) was a Dutch colonial administrator and founder of Cape Town, a city in South Africa.

[[Measles]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses

Measles is an infectious disease, caused by a virus. People catch measles from other people. It is passed on in tiny drops of water when people breathe. People with measles have a sore throat, a fever, a cough, red eyes and a runny nose. They also have a bumpy red rash all over their body. These rashes will cause a high irritation of itching.

Measles is very infectious, which means it is easy to catch. If someone in a house has measles, it is very likely that other people in the house will also get it. In developed countries, lots of children have a vaccination (injection) to stop them from getting measles. Often they are given the MMR vaccine, to stop them getting measles, mumps and rubella. The three vaccinations are all in one injection.

Measles is sometimes also called rubeola, but it is not the same as rubella (German measles). The German Measles (rubella) was discovered by German scientists.

There is no specific cure for measles. People with measles may rest and take medicines to make them feel better, to stop pain and make fevers go away. Most people that have measles recover, but some people die from it. In the 19th century measles epidemics killed many Polynesian people.

[[Emperor Seinei]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Seinei was the 22nd emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Seinei to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Seinei-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations. 

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Xiphactinus]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct fish, Fossils

Xiphactinus (from Latin and Greek for "sword-ray") was a large, 4.5 to 5 m (15 to 20 feet) long predatory bony fish that lived in the Western Interior Sea, over what is now the middle of North America, during the Late Cretaceous. Skeletal remains of Xiphactinus have come from Kansas, Alabama, and Georgia in the United States, as well as Europe and Australia.

[[Emperor Kenzō]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Kenzō was the 23rd  emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Kenzō to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Kenzō-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations. 

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Kofun]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, Burial monuments and structures

Kofun are earthen tombs or tumuli in Japan.  They were constructed between the early 3rd century and early 7th century. 

These burial mounds are referenced in the name of the Kofun period (middle 3rd century - early-middle 6th century). 

Many of the kofun have a keyhole-shaped mound (zenpo-koenfun) which is unique to ancient Japan. 

[[Chess and computers]]

CATEGORIES: Chess, Computers

Chess and computers have been connected since the earliest days of the computer. In the 19th century Charles Babbage had thought of the idea,p87 and in modern times Alan Turing, the mathematician and Bletchley Park codebreaker, put some thought into the idea. He was not a very good chess player, but was one of the creators of the first British computer.  He is also credited with the creation of Computer science.

There are two types of chess programs. One plays against a human opponent; the other helps the user become a better player. The two types can be made to work together, though they have different functions and work in different ways.

[[Julio César Romero]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers

Julio César Romero (born 28 August 1960) is a former Paraguayan football player. He has played for Paraguay national team.

[[Lee Jong-Min]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Lee Jong-Min (born 21 May 1987) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Sin Byung-Ho]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Sin Byung-Ho (born 26 April 1975) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Fernando Almeida de Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fernando Almeida de Oliveira (born 18 June 1978) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Derlis Florentín]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2010 deaths, Paraguayan footballers

Derlis Florentín (9 January 1984 - 28 March 2010) was a former Paraguayan football player.

[[An Sun-Jin]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

An Sun-Jin (born 19 September 1975) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Joseph-Désiré Job]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Cameroonian footballers

Joseph-Désiré Job (born 1 December 1977) is a Cameroonian football player. He plays for Lierse and Cameroon national team.

[[Terry Venables]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, England national football team managers, Sportspeople from London, Crystal Palace F.C. players, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players

Terry Venables (born 6 January 1943) is a former English football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Shingo Hyodo]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Shingo Hyodo (born 29 July 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos.

[[Takayuki Nishigaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Takayuki Nishigaya (born 12 May 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Chess notation]]

CATEGORIES: Chess, Notation

Chess notation is a method for writing down chess moves: after a player makes a move, both players write it down. This is compulsory in all organized chess events

The system must have these elements: the move number, the piece moved, the square it starts from (optional), the square it goes to, and other relevant information such as captures, and castles.p275 There are other notations for recording positions.

There have been ways of describing moves from quite early on. Manuscripts with move descriptions are known in Arabic (9th century) and from Europe (13th century).p275 These early notations are usually quite cumbersome; "The pawn of the king forward two houses".p229; 469; 848 This kind of notation is called descriptive. In a descriptive notation each player describes squares from his own point of view, e.g. 1 P–K4 P–K4. A notation which uses labels for the ranks and files is called algebraic. In this notation a square has only one label, e.g. 1 e4 e5.

[[Akiba Rubinstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1961 deaths, Jewish sportspeople, Polish chess players, Polish Jews, Chess grandmasters

[[Martín Chambi]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1973 deaths, Peruvian people, Photographers

Martín Chambi Jiménez was a photographer who came from the south of Peru. He was also known as Martín Chambi de Coaza. He was the only well known indigenous Latin American photographer of his time. He was born November 5, 1891 in Puno (a city in Peru) and died September 13, 1973 in the city of Cusco.

He is considered one of the great figures of American photography.

Chambi is famous for the historic and social value of his photographs. He was a portrait photographer in the cities and the countryside of the Peruvian Andes. He was the leading portrait photographer in the Andean city of Cusco. Chambi also took many landscape photographs, and he sold these photographs as postcards.  He was one of the first to use the postcard format in Peru.

In 1979, MOMA in New York had a Chambi exhibition.  The exhibition later moved to various locations. It inspired other international exhibitions of his work.

[[Kia Venga]]

CATEGORIES: Kia automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Kia Venga is a car produced by Kia since 2009. It is based on the Hyundai i20 and Kia Soul's platform.

The Venga is available with 1.4 and 1.6 litre petrol engines with 66 kW/90 hp and 92 kW/125 hp respectively, a 1.4 litre turbo diesel engine in 55 kW/75 hp and 66 kW/90 hp versions, and a 1.6 litre turbo diesel engine in 85 kW/115 hp and 94 kW/128 hp versions.

[[Reception history of Jane Austen]]

CATEGORIES: Jane Austen

The reception history of Jane Austen shows how Austen's works, at first having modest fame, became wildly popular. Her books are both the subject of great study and the center of various fan culture. Jane Austen, the writer of such works as Pride and Prejudice (1813) and Emma (1815), has become one of the most famous novelists in the English language.

During her lifetime, Austen's books did not make her very famous. Like a great number of women writers at that time, she chose to publish her books secretly. Only among people in the aristocracy, her writing was an open secret. At the time they were published, Austen's works were thought fashionable by members of high society. However, they received only a few good reviews. By the mid-nineteenth century, her works were respected by people who were learned in literature. They thought that liking her works was a sign that they were clever. In 1870, her nephew published Memoir of Jane Austen. This showed her to a wider public as "dear, quiet aunt Jane". After this, her works were published again in popular editions. By the twentieth century, lots of groups had formed. Some praised her and some defended her from the "teem masses". However, they all claimed to be true Janeites, or people who really appreciated Austen.

Early in the twentieth century, scholars made a collection of her works (the first for any British novelist). But it was not until the 1940s that Austen was widely accepted as a "great English novelist". In the second half of the twentieth century, people began studying Austen more and more, and in different ways. For example, they studied her works artistically, ideologically, and historically. The university English departments began developing in the first half of the twentieth century. As they grew, criticism of Austen split into remarkable high culture and popular culture trends. In the late twentieth century, fans made Jane Austen societies and clubs. They praised Austen, her time, and her works. In the early twenty-first century, Austen fans support an industry of printed sequels and prequels. They also support Austen's work in television and film.

[[List of chess openings]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings, Chess lists

Chess openings are listed and classified according to their first few moves. There are some interesting statistics on the frequency of chess openings, from chess data bases.

[[Emperor Ninken]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Ninken was the 24th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Ninken to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Ninken-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations. 

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Emperor Buretsu]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Buretsu was the 25th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Buretsu to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Buretsu-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Prefectures of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Prefectures of Japan

Prefectures of Japan are one of the basic local entities of Japan.   They are the 47 subdivisions of the country. Prefectures are the governmental bodies of Japan which are larger than cities, towns, and villages.

[[List of Provinces of Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Former provinces of Japan, Japan-related lists

The List of Provinces of Japan changed over time.  The number and borders of provinces evolved from the 7th century through the Meiji Period. In the 1870s, the provinces were replaced by prefectures.

The traditional way of parsing the land of Japan was "five provinces and seven circuits" (go-shichidō).

[[Gilberto Kassab]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian politicians, Mayors, 1960 births, Living people

Gilberto Kassab (ʒiwˈbɛɾtʊ kaˈsab(ɪ) or ʒiwˈbɛʁtu kaˈsab(i); born 12 August 1960 in São Paulo) was the mayor of São Paulo, the biggest city in Brazil. He is a member of the right-wing Democrat party. Kassab became famous when he brought in laws to stop billboard advertising, which he said were "visual pollution".

[[Terra nullius]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Property

Terra nullius means unclaimed territory. It is the correct term in international law. It means land which does not (at present) belong to any state.   The term comes from the Latin, meaning Nobody's thing. There is also an expression no man's land, but that does not have a formal legal meaning.

Rule over terra nullius can be got by occupying the territory. There are various legal problems about this concept, but in practice it is often the business of neighbouring states to decide by negotiation. Diplomacy may sometimes be replaced by warfare.

Two territories that are currently terra nullius are Bir Tawil between Egypt and Sudan, and Marie Byrd Land, in Antarctica.

[[Free State (province)]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of South Africa, 1994 establishments in South Africa

The Free State (Afrikaans: Vrystaat, Sotho: Foreistata; before 1995, the Orange Free State) is a province of South Africa. Its capital is Bloemfontein, which is also South Africa's judicial capital. The current borders of the province date from 1994 when the Bantustans were dissolved and were merged into the provinces of South Africa. It is also the only one of the older provinces of South Africa not to undergo border changes, not counting the incorporation of the Bantustans.

[[Orange Free State]]

CATEGORIES: 1852 establishments, 19th-century establishments in South Africa, 1900s disestablishments in Africa, 1850s establishments in Africa, 1902 disestablishments

The Orange Free State (Oranje-Vrijstaat) was a country in southern Africa. It was ruled by the Afrikaners. It was defeated by the British Empire and its colonies, the British Cape Colony and the Natal Colony, in the Second Boer War. It became the Orange River Colony and later joined with other colonies to make the Union of South Africa.

[[Bir Tawil]]

CATEGORIES: Territorial disputes, Geography of Egypt, Sudan

Bir Tawil or Bi'r Tawīl (بيرطويل in Arabic; Bi'r or بير, meaning water well), is a small, 2060, area. It is along the border between Egypt and Sudan. It is claimed by neither country right now. It is sometimes given the name the Bir Tawil Triangle, because even though it's not an exact triangle, it's made out of two triangles that share a border. The longer side is in the north of the area. It runs along the 22° north circle of latitude.

The administrative boundary of Sudan and Egypt was made in 1902. Their political boundary was set in 1899. It was set as the 22° north circle of latitude. This area lies south of the 22° parallel. East-to-west, the area is between 46 long in the south. It is 95 long in the north. It is between 26 and 31 wide north-to-south. It is also 2060 in size.

The Bir Tawil area came under Egyptian administration in 1902. This was because it was grazing land of the Ababda tribe based near Aswan, Egypt. At the same time, the Hala'ib Triangle north of latitude 22° north, and northeast of the area, came under Sudanese administration. This was because the tribes of this area were based in Sudan.  The two "triangles" border at one point, a quadripoint.

[[Hebe Camargo]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Brazilian actors, São Paulo (state)

Hebe Maria Camargo (March, 8 1929 – September 29, 2012) is a Brazilian television host, actress and singer. 

[[Sam Bradford]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, American football quarterbacks, Arizona Cardinals players, Heisman Trophy winners, Living people, Minnesota Vikings players, Philadelphia Eagles players, Sportspeople from Oklahoma City, St. Louis Rams players

Samuel Jacob Bradford (born November 8, 1987, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma) is an American football quarterback for the Arizona Cardinals. He played for the Oklahoma Sooners college football team. He was drafted by the St. Louis Rams with the first overall pick in the 2010 National Football League (NFL) Draft. Bradford was the 2011 NFL Offensive Rookie of the Year.

[[Olmedilla Photovoltaic Park]]

CATEGORIES: Solar power plants, Buildings and structures in Spain, 2008 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Spain

The Olmedilla Photovoltaic Park in Olmedilla de Alarcón, Spain, is the world’s largest photovoltaic plant.  Built in 2008, the plant uses more than 160,000 solar photovoltaic panels to generate 60 megawatts (peak). It produces enough electricity to power more than 40,000 homes.

[[Strasskirchen Solar Park]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Bavaria, Power stations in Germany, Solar power plants

The Strasskirchen Solar Park is a power station in Straßkirchen, Germany. It is the second-largest photovoltaic power station in the world, with an installed capacity of 54 MW.

[[Hiroshi Noguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Hiroshi Noguchi (born 25 February 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Siegbert Tarrasch]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1934 deaths, German chess players, German doctors, Jewish German writers, Jewish sportspeople, People from former German territories, People from Wrocław

Siegbert Tarrasch (Breslau, now Wrocław, 5 March 1862 – Munich, 17 February 1934) was a German doctor, and one of the strongest chess grandmasters of the day.

Tarrasch was born in Breslau, in Prussian Silesia. He left in 1880 to study medicine, and qualified as a physician. He lived most of his life in Nuremberg, Bavaria, and later in Munich. Tarrasch was born Jewish, and converted to Christianity in 1909. He was a patriotic German, who lost a son in World War I, but he faced antisemitism in the early stages of Nazism.

Tarrasch won more strong tournaments in the 1890s than any other player, and drew a 22-game match against Mikhail Chigorin, the leading Russian player. Tarrasch was also an influential chess writer, who summarised the chess ideas of the 1890s. It was his ideas against which the hypermoderns reacted in the early 1920s.p411

Occupied with his profession, Tarrasch did not challenge Steinitz, and turned down the young Emanuel Lasker's request for a match. This turned out to be a mistake, for Lasker then challended Steinitz, and won the world chess championship. Later Tarrasch unsuccessfully challenged Lasker for the world championship, in 1908. He was by then past his best, though he continued to play in tournaments for many years. His best result in later years was to reach the final pool in the strong St. Petersburg 1914 tournament. He came fourth, behind Lasker, Capablanca and Alekhine.

[[Tetsuya Takada]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Tetsuya Takada (born 31 July 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tadamichi Machida]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Tadamichi Machida (born 23 May 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Branko Hucika]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Croatian footballers, Sportspeople from Zagreb

Branko Hucika (born 10 July 1977) is a former Croatian football player.

[[Goran Vasilijević]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Goran Vasilijević (born August 27, 1965) is a former Serbian football player.

[[Owusu Benson]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Ghanaian footballers, People from Accra

Owusu Benson (born 22 March 1977) is a Ghanaian football player. He has played for Ghana national team.

[[Massimo Taibi]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Italian footballers, People from Palermo

Massimo Taibi (born 18 February 1970) is a former Italian football player.

[[Noureddine Naybet]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Moroccan footballers, People from Casablanca

Noureddine Naybet (born 10 February 1970) is a former Moroccan football player. He has played for Morocco national team.

[[Kim Hyun-Seok]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Kim Hyun-Seok (born 5 May 1967) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Kwanzaa]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, 1966 establishments in the United States, African-American history, American culture, Pan-Africanism

Kwanzaa is a week long celebration held in the United States to honor universal African heritage and culture. People light a kinara (candle holder with seven candles) and give each other gifts. It takes place from December 26 to January 1 every year. It was created by Maulana Karenga and was first celebrated in 1966 - 1967. Non-African Americans also celebrate Kwanzaa. The holiday greeting is "Joyous Kwanzaa".

[[Interventional Radiology]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

Interventional radiology is defined as the branch of medicine that diagnoses and treats a wide range of diseases using actions that are performed through the skin (for example an injection) or carried out with the least damage by x-rays, sonography, and so on.

Some of these procedures are done only for diagnostic purposes, while others are done for treatment purposes. Images are used to direct these procedures, which are usually done with needles or other tiny instruments like small tubes called catheters. The images provide road maps that allow the Interventional Radiologist to guide these instruments through the body to the areas containing diseases.

[[Chess Olympiad]]

CATEGORIES: Chess competitions

Chess Olympiads are chess  events open to all national teams. They have been run since 1927 by the world chess organisation, FIDE. Since 1950, they have been run every two years. Earlier events were all-play-all. Then, as numbers grew, a system of qualifying sections were used. In recent times, the format has been a Swiss system. This, in chess terms, is a method whereby opponents are chosen each round to have similar scores. It has been widely used for individual tournaments. 

[[Cassandra Austen]]

CATEGORIES: English artists, Jane Austen, People from Hampshire, 1773 births, 1845 deaths

Cassandra Elizabeth Austen (9 January 1773 – 22 March 1845) was the older sister of Jane Austen. She was Jane's best friend and a beauty. Her fiancé died; she never married.

[[Lord Mayor]]

CATEGORIES: Titles, Local government in the United Kingdom

The Lord Mayor is the title of the Mayor of a major city, with special recognition.

[[Henry Dyck]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1993 deaths, American Hockey Association (1926–42) players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, New York Rangers players, People from Saskatoon, Eastern Hockey League players

Henry Dyck (September 5, 1912 – November 15, 1993) was a Canadian professional ice hockey left wing who played one game in the National Hockey League for the New York Rangers.

[[Steve Wochy]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, People from Thunder Bay

Stephen Wojciechowski (born December 25, 1922), also known as Steve Wochy, is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player, who played 54 games for the Detroit Red Wings in the National Hockey League. He was born in Fort William, Ontario.

Prior to playing in the NHL, Wojciechowski was a member of the Port Arthur Bearcats in 1942 appearing in the 1942 Allan Cup. Wojciechowski played 10 seasons in the American Hockey League after leaving the NHL, with the Indianapolis Capitals, Philadelphia Rockets, Cleveland Barons and Buffalo Bisons. Wojciechowski was named a first team AHL All-star in 1952.

[[Fort William, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Former cities in Canada, Thunder Bay

Fort William was a city in Northern Ontario. It was on the Kaministiquia River, at its entrance to Lake Superior.  It amalgamated with Port Arthur and the townships of Neebing and McIntyre to form the city of Thunder Bay in January 1970. Ever since then it has been the largest city in Northwestern Ontario.

[[Port Arthur Bearcats]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey teams in Ontario, Thunder Bay

The Port Arthur Bearcats were an amateur men's senior ice hockey team based in Port Arthur, Ontario, now part of the city of Thunder Bay. Port Arthur were champions Canadian Amateur Hockey Association four times, and were chosen twice as represent Canada as the Canada men's national ice hockey team at international competitions.

The Port Arthur team played several season without a nicknames over its history, with several generic names applied to the team including the Port Arthur Ports, Port Arthur Hockey Club, and the Port Arthur Seniors.  The team ceased due to World War II in 1943.

There was a revival in 1945 with a new Port Arthur Bearcats club that operated until the merger of Port Arthur and Fort William and creation of the Thunder Bay Twins in 1970. 

[[Allan Cup]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 establishments in Canada, Ice hockey trophies and awards

The Allan Cup is the trophy awarded to the national senior amateur men’s ice hockey champions of Canada. The trophy was donated in 1908 by Sir H. Montagu Allan as a trophy for amateur teams, to replace the Stanley Cup, whose tournament had become a professional competition. 

[[Pokémon Black and White]]

CATEGORIES: Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games, Pokémon RPGs

Pokémon Black Version and White Version are two role-playing games (RPGs) in the Pokémon series made by Game Freak for the Nintendo DS. The games were released in Japan on September 18, 2010, in Europe on March 4, 2011, in North America on March 6, 2011, and in Australia on March 10, 2011. The games have 156 new Pokémon, which brings the total to 649. These games introduce the largest amount of Pokémon in any generation.

[[Adolf Anderssen]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 births, 1879 deaths, German chess players, German mathematicians, People from former German territories, People from Wrocław

Karl Ernst Adolf Anderssen (Breslau, 6 July 1818 – Breslau, 13 March 1879) was a German chess master, and a teacher of mathematics. He was recognised as the best player in the world for much of the time between 1851 and 1870. 

Anderssen won three great international tournaments: the first in London 1851, then London 1862 and Baden-Baden 1870. Anderssen lost matches in 1858 to Paul Morphy and, narrowly, to Steinitz in 1866. He was also a chess problem composer.p16

Anderssen became the most successful tournament player in Europe, winning over half the events he entered—including the Baden-Baden 1870 tournament, which is comparable to modern strong GM tournaments. His last success was at Leipzig in 1877 where he came second equal with Zukertort, behind Paulsen. He was then nearly 60.

He is still famous for his brilliant sacrificial attacking play, particularly in the 'Immortal Game' (1851) and the 'Evergreen Game' (1852). He was also one of the most likeable of chess masters and became an elder statesman of the game, to whom others turned for advice or arbitration.

[[Bayesian network]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Artificial intelligence

A Bayesian network is a kind of graph which is used to model events that cannot be observed. This can then be used for inference. The graph that is used is directed, and does not contain any cycles. The nodes of the graph represent random variables. If two nodes are connected by an edge, it has an associated probability that it will transmit from one node to the other.

Bayesian networks are mainly used in the field of  (unassisted) machine learning. They have been used where information needs to be classified. Examples are image, document, or speech recognition, and information retrieval.

It is based on Reverend Thomas Bayes' discovery in the 1740s called Bayes' theorem.

[[M1 Abrams]]

CATEGORIES: Tanks

The M1 Abrams is a modern main battle tank used by the United States. It is also exported to several countries. It is a well armed, well protected, and fast tank designed for modern armored ground warfare. Notable features of the M1 Abrams include the use of a powerful engine, layered armor, and a low profile. It is one of the heaviest tanks in service, weighing almost 70 short tons.

The M1 Abrams entered U.S. service in 1980, replacing the M60 Patton. Three main versions of the M1 Abrams have been deployed, the M1, M1A1, and M1A2, incorporating improved armament, protection and electronics. These improvements, as well as periodic upgrades to older tanks have allowed this long-serving vehicle to remain in front-line service. The M1A3 is currently under development. It is the principal (main) main battle tank of the United States Army and Marine Corps, and the armies of Egypt, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Australia, and in 2010 Iraq. The M1 Abrams is anticipated to be in U.S. service until the 2050s.

[[Sexual intercourse]]

CATEGORIES: Biological reproduction, Human sexuality

Sexual intercourse (or simply called sex) is the insertion and thrusting of a male's penis into a female's vagina. People and animals that sexually reproduce use sexual intercourse to have an offspring. Sometimes sexual intercourse is called coitus or copulation and is more casually known as having sex or sleeping together. The two animals may be of opposite sexes or they may be hermaphroditic, as is the case with snails. Sexual intercourse may also be between individuals of the same sex.

Humans sometimes engage in behaviors that do not include the penetration of sexual organs, such as oral intercourse or anal intercourse or by non-sexual organs (fingering, fisting). These behaviors are sometimes included in the definition of sexual intercourse. Sex is usually teleiophilic (between adults).

Two animals coming together for the purposes of sexual reproduction is called mating. Most mammals only mate when the female is at the point of estrus, which is the most fertile period of time in its reproductive cycle. In certain animals, sexual intercourse is not only used for reproduction, but has taken other functions as well. These animals include bonobos, dolphins, and chimpanzees  which also have sexual intercourse even when the female is not in estrus, and to engage in sex acts with same-sex partners. In most instances, humans have sex primarily for pleasure. This behavior in the above mentioned animals is also presumed to be for pleasure, which in turn strengthens social bonds.

[[Gerontology]]

CATEGORIES: Gerontology

Gerontology (from Greek: γέρων, geron, "old man" and -λογία, -logy, "study of") is the study of the social, psychological and biological aspects of aging. It is distinguished from geriatrics, which is the branch of medicine that studies the disease of the elderly. 

Gerontology includes these and other endeavors:

[[George Lowe]]

CATEGORIES: Adult Swim

George Lowe is an American voice actor. He is best known for voicing Space Ghost on the adult swim program Space Ghost: Coast to Coast. He also voices Brak's Dad on The Brak Show. 

[[Andy Merrill]]

CATEGORIES: Adult Swim

Andy Merrill is an American voice actor best known for voicing Brak and Oglethorpe for adult swim. He used to be a writer for Space Ghost: Coast to Coast. 

[[Dana Snyder]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Adult Swim, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Pennsylvania, Actors from Las Vegas, Nevada, Comedians from Pennsylvania, People from Allentown, Pennsylvania

Dana Snyder (born November 14, 1973) is an American  voice artist and comedian. He is best known for voicing Master Shake in the Aqua Teen Hunger Force franchise and Alistair in Open Season 3.

Snyder was born in Allentown, Pennsylvania. He was raised in Easton, Pennsylvania. He still lives in Easton, Pennsylvania.

[[Todd Hanson]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Adult Swim, Living people, American writers

Todd Hanson is a writer for The Onion. He voices Dan Halen on the Adult Swim program Squidbillies. 

Hanson has lived in Wisconsin and New York City, New York.

[[Unknown Hinson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Adult Swim

Unknown Hinson is a singer and voice actor.  He is best known as the voice of Early Cuyler on the adult swim program Squidbillies. His real name is Stuart Daniel Baker.

[[Emperor Kinmei]]

CATEGORIES: 509 births, 571 deaths, Emperors of Japan

Emperor Kinmei, also written as Kimmei, was the 29th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  His reign started in 540 and ended in 571. Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Kinmei to be possibly legendary, but probable. The name Kimmu-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations. 

The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Don Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American voice actors, American television actors, Actors from Pennsylvania

Donald "Don" Kennedy (born June 8, 1930 in Beaver, Pennsylvania) is an American actor. He is known for voicing Tansit on the adult swim program Space Ghost: Coast to Coast. He is also known for voicing Morlun on The Brak Show. 

[[Complex sentence]]

CATEGORIES: Sentences

A complex sentence is a sentence with two or more of dependent sentences and independent sentences mixed together by subordinating conjunctions, such as "although," "after," "until," "while," or "when'".

For example:

"Before the curtain rose, Nick came out and took a bow."

In this sentence, "before" is a subordinating conjunction. "Before the curtain rose" is a dependent sentence. With its subordinating conjunction, it joins the independent sentence by being smoothly contacted by its meaning.  But without this independent sentence,"Nick came and took a bow", the dependent sentence cannot stay by itself. "Before the curtain rose" cannot stay by itself without an independent sentence joined together by adding a subordinating conjunction.

[[Emperor Keitai]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Keitai, also known as Keitai okimi, was the 26th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Keitai to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Keitai-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

No certain dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.  The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

Some modern reference works of history call Keitai the King Ohoto of Koshi.  Koshi was a small regional entity in what would become Koshi Province in northern Japan.

[[Koshi Province]]

CATEGORIES: Former provinces of Japan, Niigata Prefecture, Fukui Prefecture, Toyama Prefecture

Koshi was a very old province of Japan  in the area of Niigata, Fukui and Toyama prefectures on the island of Honshū.

Koshi was also a regional name.   It was in what is now known as the Hokuriku region.  

[[Dario Dabac]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Dario Dabac (born 23 May 1978) is a Croatian football player. He plays for Al-Arabi Kuwait.

[[Dragiša Binić]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Dragiša Binić (born 20 October 1964) is a former Serbian football player. He has played for the Yugoslavia national team.

[[Capone]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Capone (born 23 May 1972) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Hamad Al-Montashari]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Saudi Arabian footballers, People from Jeddah

Hamad Al-Montashari (born 22 June 1982) is a Saudi Arabian football player. He plays for Al-Ittihad Jeddah and Saudi Arabia national team.

[[Kim Hwang-Jung]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, People from Osaka

Kim Hwang-Jung (Hangul: 김황정, born 19 November 1975), also known as Terumasa Kin is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Dario Hübner]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Dario Hübner (born 28 April 1967) is an Italian football player.

[[Masaki Ogawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Masaki Ogawa (born 3 April 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Osamu Maeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Yokohama Flügels players, 1988 AFC Asian Cup players

Osamu Maeda is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Masato Fue]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Masato Fue (born 22 March 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takayuki Fujikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Takayuki Fujikawa is a former Japanese football player.

[[Arthur Friedenreich]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1969 deaths, Brazilian footballers

Arthur Friedenreich (18 July 1892 – 6 September 1969) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Pericles de Oliveira Ramos]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Pericles de Oliveira Ramos (born 2 January 1975) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Ivan Radeljić]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Bosnia and Herzegovina footballers

Ivan Radeljić (born 14 September 1980) is a Bosnia and Herzegovina football player. He plays for Gençlerbirliği and Bosnia and Herzegovina national team.

[[Marco Marchionni]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Marco Marchionni (born 22 July 1980) is an Italian football player. He plays for Fiorentina and Italy national team.

[[Fernando Henrique Mariano]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fernando Henrique Mariano (born 3 April 1967) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Lucas Chiaretti Cossenzo]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Lucas Chiaretti Cossenzo (born 22 September 1987) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Shinsuke Shiotani]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Shinsuke Shiotani (born 11 May 1970) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hiroto Mogi]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukushima Prefecture, Fukushima United FC players

Hiroto Mogi (born 2 March 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vissel Kobe.

[[Bruno Sarpa Costa]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro

Bruno Sarpa Costa (born 29 October 1984 ) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Marquem Gonçalves Ferreira]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marquen Goncalves Ferreira (born 30 November 1983) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Katsuyuki Saito]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukushima Prefecture

Katsuyuki Saito (born 7 April 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryota Aoki]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture

Ryota Aoki (born 19 August 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[Masahiro Wada]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Masahiro Wada (born 21 January 1965) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Abdeljalil Hadda]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Moroccan footballers

Abdeljalil Hadda (born 21 March 1972) is a former Moroccan football player. He has played for Morocco national team.

[[Lucas Neill]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Lucas Neill (born 9 March 1978) is an Australian football player. He plays for Galatasaray and Australia national team.

[[Michael Dawson]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, English footballers, People from North Yorkshire, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players

Michael Dawson (born 18 November 1983) is an English football player. He plays for Tottenham Hotspur.

[[Gunnar Nordahl]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 1995 deaths, Swedish footballers

Gunnar Nordahl (19 October 1921 – 15 September 1995) is a former Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.

[[Yoshiki Okamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Yoshiki Okamura (born 21 March 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kazuhiro Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Kazuhiro Suzuki (born 16 November 1976) is a Japanese football player.

[[Paul Morphy]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1884 deaths, American chess players, Sportspeople from New Orleans, Louisiana

[[Kim Carnes]]

CATEGORIES: American folk musicians, Singers from Los Angeles, California, American pop musicians, Singer-songwriters from California, Grammy Award winners, 1945 births, Living people, Country musicians

Kim Carnes (born 20 July 1945) is an American singer. She is best known for the song "Bette Davis Eyes" (1981).

Bette Davis liked the song.  Carnes gave Davis a gold record.  Bette Davis hung the gold record on a wall.

[[Emperor Bidatsu]]

CATEGORIES: 538 births, 585 deaths, Emperors of Japan

Emperor Bidatsu was the 30th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.

The years of reign of Bidatsu start in 572 and end in 585; however, there are no certain dates for this emperor's life or reign.  The names and sequence of the early emperors were not confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Café de la Régence]]

CATEGORIES: Chess, Buildings and structures in Paris

The Café de la Régence was a meeting place for chess players in Paris, France. It was the most famous chess meeting-place for over a century. The building was a coffeehouse in the centre of Paris, founded in 1688 and named in 1718. At first, it was under the patronage of the Duc d'Orleans, and attracted a literary crowd.p417 

Chess players moved there en masse around 1740. The clientele included amateurs, such as Voltaire, Rousseau, Robespierre, Benjamin Franklin and Napoleon. The leading professionals, Deschapelles, La Bourdonnais, Verdoni and Philidor, were there every day when they were in Paris.p65 Staunton played his match against Saint-Amant there; Paul Morphy played there in 1858, including his match with Anderssen. The café was moved in 1855. The chess room was finally closed in 1916.

[[Longevity]]

CATEGORIES: Life, Demography, Population, Gerontology, Healthy lifestyle

The word longevity means long life, or life expectancy. It often means someone or something lasting longer than expected. 

Longevity usually includes thinking about methods to extend life. Longevity has been a topic not only for the scientific community but also for writers of science fiction and utopian novels.

[[Andy Reid]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Irish footballers, Sportspeople from Dublin

Andrew Matthew "Andy" Reid (born 29 July 1982) is an Irish football player. He plays for the Nottingham Forest.

[[Judit Polgár]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Hungarian chess players, Hungarian Jews, Sportspeople from Budapest, Chess grandmasters

Judit Polgár (born 23 July 1976) is a Hungarian chess grandmaster. She is by far the strongest female chess player in history,p312 yet she has never played in the Women's World Chess Championship. In 1991 she got the title of Grandmaster (GM) at 15 years, 4 months. She was, at that time, the youngest person to do so. Polgár is now ranked number 51 in the world, the only woman on FIDE's Top 100 Players list; she has been ranked as high as eighth.

[[Paul Stalteri]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Canadian footballers, Sportspeople from Ontario

Paul Stalteri (born 18 October 1977) is a Canadian soccer player. He plays for Borussia Mönchengladbach and Canada national team.

[[Fábio de Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fábio de Jesus (born 16 October 1976) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Ricardo Souza Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Ricardo Souza Silva (born 26 November 1926) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Viktor Onopko]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Russian footballers

Viktor Onopko (born 14 October 1969) is a former Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team and Russia national team.

[[Henri Michel]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2018 deaths, French footballers, French football managers, Aix-en-Provence

Henri Michel (28 October 1947 – 24 April 2018) was a former French football player. He had played for France national team.

Michel died in 24 April 2018 in Aix-en-Provence, France, aged 70.

[[Kiatisuk Senamuang]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Thai football managers, Thai footballers

Kiatisuk Senamuang (born 11 August 1973) is a Thai football manager and player.

[[Michael Yano]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Japanese footballers, People from Accra

Michael Yano (born 22 January 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Taikai Uemoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Taikai Uemoto (born 1 June 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Cerezo Osaka.

[[Yoshiaki Fujita]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture

Yoshiaki Fujita (born 12 January 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Oita Trinita.

[[Satoshi Taira]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture

Satoshi Taira (born 16 July 1970) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Alessandro Cambalhota]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alessandro Andrade de Oliveira (born 27 May 1973) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Masahiro Sukigara]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Tokyo Verdy players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, 1988 AFC Asian Cup players

Masahiro Sukigara is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jun Takada]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Jun Takada (born 6 December 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takahiro Kawamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Takahiro Kawamura (born 4 October 1979) is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Takuma Koga]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Takuma Koga (born 30 April 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Eiji Hanayama]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture

Eiji Hanayama (born 21 August 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yasumasa Nishino]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Toyama Prefecture

Yasumasa Nishino (born 14 September 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kyoto Sanga.

[[Hiromasa Yamamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Hiromasa Yamamoto   is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Jorginho Putinatti]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jorge Antônio Putinatti (born August 23, 1959) is a Brazilian professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player. He has played for the Brazilian national team.

[[Ogyū Sorai]]

CATEGORIES: 1666 births, 1729 deaths, Philosophers, Japanese people, Confucianism, People from Tokyo

Ogyū Sorai (March 21, 1666, Edo, Japan – February 28, 1728, Edo) was a Japanese philosopher who used the pen name Butsu Sorai in many of his writings. He has been described as the most influential Confucian scholar during the Tokugawa period. His main field of study was how Confucius' teachings could be used in government, and how they could influence the order of society as a whole. At the time, Japan had problems with the government. The economic model of mercantilism was used, but was not successful. Japan was still using old institutions, but they had become weak because their members were extravagant (excessive).  Still, these institutions were dominant in society. In Sorai's opinion, they used teachings such as The Way to justify their actions.

Sorai rejected the moral ways of Song Confucianism and looked at the older works instead. He argued that allowing human emotions to express themselves was important. For this reason, he tried to strengthen the position that Chinese literature had in Japan. Sorai had a large following with his teachings and created the Sorai school, which would become an influential force in Japanese Confucian scholarship.

[[Mercantilism]]

CATEGORIES: Economic history

Mercantilism is a kind of economic system that was present in most parts of Europe between the 16th and the 18th century. 

The term was first used by Marquis de Mirabeau in 1794. Adam Smith made it known to a wider audience in 1776. At that time, absolutism was the main form of government in Europe. These regimes needed money to finance a large military, the many people who worked in the government. The monarchs and princes also needed money in order to finance their lifestyle. These governments were also very nationalistic. For this reason, mercantilism is seen as a form of economic nationalism. 

The theory of mercantilism holds that the prosperity of a nation depends on its supply of capital, and that the global volume of international trade is "unchangeable". Economic assets (or capital) are bullion (gold, silver, and trade value) held by the state, and is best increased through a positive balance of trade with other nations (exports minus imports). 

The theory assumes that wealth and monetary assets are identical. Mercantilism suggests that the ruling government should advance these goals by playing a protectionist role in the economy by encouraging exports and discouraging imports, notably through the use of tariffs and subsidies. The theory dominated Western European economic policies from the 16th to the late-18th century.

[[Maimonides]]

CATEGORIES: 1135 births, 1204 deaths, Egyptian Jews, European Jews, Jewish philosophers, People from Córdoba, Andalusia, Physicians, Rabbis

Maimonides was born in the Almoravid city of Córdoba in Spain, in 1135.  His Hebrew name was Moses ben Maimon. He is also known as the Rambam, from the initial letters of his title and name, Rabbi Moshe ben Maimon.

Maimonides was a doctor by profession.  Maimonides was one of the most important Jewish philosophers of the Middle Ages.  He tried to show that the philosophy of the ancient Greek thinker, Aristotle, and Judaism supported each other.

[[Communes of Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

There are 346 communes in Chile. A commune is the most basic administration unit in the country. They belong to one of the 54 provinces of Chile.

[[The Decemberists]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Indie rock bands, Folk music groups, Musical groups from Oregon, Musicians from Portland, Oregon, 2000 establishments in the United States, 21st-century establishments in Oregon

[[Emperor Yōmei]]

CATEGORIES: 518 births, 587 deaths, Emperors of Japan

Emperor Yōmei was the 31st emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.

The years of the reign of Yōmei start in 585 and end in 587.  The names and sequence of the early emperors were not confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty. 

[[Arica Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Chile

The Arica Province (Provincia de Arica) is a province of Chile. It belongs to the Arica and Parinacota (XV), the northernmost and the newest of the Chilean regions. Its capital is the port city of Arica.

[[Francis Crick]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2004 deaths, Biophysicists, English biologists, British Nobel Prize winners, British physicists, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Molecular biologists, Neuroscientists, Order of Merit, People from Northamptonshire

Francis Harry Compton Crick OM FRS (8 June 1916 – 28 July 2004) was a British physicist, biologist and humanist.

He is one of those who worked out the structure of DNA. Using X-ray crystallography results from Maurice Wilkins' biophysics team at King's College London, Crick and James Watson discovered that DNA has what is called a "double helix structure".

This means that DNA is made of two chains wound round each other to make a spiral. Only one of the chains carries information, but the two chains together makes the molecule more stable. DNA is the basis of heredity for almost all forms of life today.

Crick, Watson and Wilkins won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 1962. Their work sparked a huge amount of research in molecular and cell biology and, as a result, many subsequent Nobel awards have been made.

[[Arica]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile, Communes of Chile

Arica is a commune and a port city with a population of 196,590 in the Arica Province of northern Chile's Arica y Parinacota Region. It is Chile's most northern city; it is at only 18 south of the border with Peru.

The city is the capital since 2007 of both the Arica Province and the Arica and Parinacota Region. It was founded on 25 April 1541 by Lucas Martínez Vegaso as San Marcos de Arica.

[[Camarones, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile, 1927 establishments in Chile, Communes of Chile

Camarones is a city and commune of Chile, in the Region of Arica and Parinacota. It has 1,220 people. The centre of the city is in Cuyo, near the Chile Highway 5. It is mostly rural. It does not have much tourist activity.

It was founded in December 30, 1927 as Codpa.

[[Putre]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile, Communes of Chile

Putre (loud river in Aymara) is a city in Chile. It is the capital of the province of Parinacota, in the region of Arica and Parinacota, in the north of Chile. The city was founded in December 30, 1927, and in 1979, the old town called Belén was appended to Putre.

[[General Lagos]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

General Lagos is a city in the region of Arica and Parinacota, in the north of Chile. It is named after Pedro Lagos, who directed the assault to the morro de Arica, during the battle of Arica. It was founded in December 30, 1927 as Comuna de General Lagos and they are called visvireños, since the most important area in the town is called Visvirí.

[[Alto Hospicio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile, 2004 establishments, 21st-century establishments in Chile

Alto Hospicio is a city in Chile. It is in the province of Iquique, region of Tarapacá. It has 80,000 people. It was founded on April 12, 2004. Before that, it was part of Iquique.

[[Pozo Almonte]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Pozo Almonte is a city in the province of Tamarugal in the region of Tarapacá, in northern Chile. It has an area of 13.765,8 km², and a population of 14.366. It was founded in 1875. 

[[Camiña]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Camiña (home in Aymara) is a city in Chile. It is in the province of Tamarugal, region of Tarapacá. It had 1.275 people as of 2002. It was founded in September 8, 1970. It has an area of 2.200,2 km². The slogan of the city is effort land.

[[Colchane]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Colchane (Aymara: from qullchanni, existence of pasturage) is a city in Chile in the province of Tamarugal.

It has 1,700 inhabitants and an area of 4,015 km2. It was originally founded as Los Cóndores in September 8, 1970.

[[Huara]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Huara is a city in the province of Tamarugal, Region of Tarapacá, Chile. The commune also comprises the Pisagua and Tarapacá hamlets.

[[Pica, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Pica is a city in Chile, in the province of Tamarugal, Tarapacá. It is in an oasis in the middle of the Atacama Desert. Pica is famous for its small and unusually acidic lemons. It has an average temperature of 40°C. Pica has 6,178 inhabitants.

[[Motion blindness]]

CATEGORIES: Vision

Motion blindness (also called Akinetopsia)  is a medical condition (although not a medical condition that is not currently recognized by the World Health Organization) in which a person cannot see objects that are moving even though they can see the objects that do not move. The condition seems to be very rare, and related to the nerves. It may also be psychological. There is currently no treatment for this condition. A lot of information about this condition comes from different case studies done between 1913 and 2003. Most of what is known is from a single patient, called LM. LM was a 43 year old woman who was treated in a hospital in 1978, after she had suffered a stroke. 

Currently, motion blindness is thought to be caused by a change to the regions of the brain that are responsible for sight. This change is usually a result of damage done to the brain, and affects the way the brain "decodes" visual information. It is possible that only "visual" motion processing is affected because this is done in a separate area of the brain, which is different from the area that does motion processing in general. The same can happen to the perception of color, that is the patient can have a form of color blindness, which is known as achromatopsia. Unlike most other forms of color blindness, which are caused by changes in the eye, this one is caused by changes in the brain. 

[[Battles of Lexington and Concord]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of the American Revolutionary War, 1775 in the Thirteen Colonies, 1770s in Massachusetts, April events

The Battles of Lexington and Concord were the first battles of the American Revolutionary War. The battles were between British soldiers, who wanted to take away the colonists' weapons and to arrest John Hancock and Samuel Adams on the way to Concord, and American colonists on April 19, 1775. They were fought in two towns outside Boston, Massachusetts: Lexington, Massachusetts and Concord, Massachusetts.

The Patriots found out long before that could happen, and they safely evacuated the place.

The first battle was fought on Lexington Green in Lexington. General Gage, along with 700 British soldiers, marched there to find and destroy hidden weapons. However, they were met by 70 minutemen. The battle lasted only a few minutes, but 8 minutemen died and 9 were hurt. Only 1 British soldier had been injured, and the soldiers then went to Concord to seize supplies like food, guns, and ammunition, which were stored by the militia.

On the way back to Boston, they were ambushed by 400 minutemen. This time, Britain lost 250 soldiers, and only 90 Americans died.

[[Emperor Sushun]]

CATEGORIES: 520s births, 592 deaths, Emperors of Japan

Emperor Sushun was the 32nd emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  His reign started in 587 and ended in 592.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Sushun to be possibly legendary, but probable.  The name Sushun-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[No. 3 Fighter Sector RAAF]]

CATEGORIES: Queensland

No. 3 Fighter Sector (3FS) was a Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) unit during World War Two. No. 3FS was responsible for fighter aircraft control and coordination for the Townsville region. 3FS would collect all of the intelligence information from the various D/F stations and VAOC posts, decide on the what needed to be done and then tell the  fighter or bomber squadrons to respond. 3FS was in telephone and radio contact with all of the anti-aircraft, searchlight, RDF and HF/DF stations in the Townsville area.

It was first set up at Townsville Grammar School, on 25 February 1942.  The Women's Auxiliary Australian  Air Force members of 3FS lived at St Anne’s Girls School,  Townsville. In 1942, a new headquarters for No. 3FS was built at Wulguru, Townsville. The site was a proper military camp site with its own power house, barracks, kitchens, toilets and recreation hall. There were as many as 62 different buildings in 3FS HQ. The camp was on the side of a hill near Mt Stuart, on the west side of the road to Charters Towers. It can still be seen today on the hill on the opposite side of the Stuart Shopping Centre.

No. 3FS was renamed 103 Fighter Control Unit (103 FCU) on 7 March 1944. The Stuart complex was complete and ready to use on 20 December 1944. The main operations building was a bunker made of 30-centimetre (12 in) thick reinforced concrete designed to withstand a direct bomb hit. It had a mezzanine floor and was air-conditioned. 3 Fighter Sector Headquarters had 32 rooms in the large rectangular concrete building with walls forming various passageways. The building still stands today and is 60 by 42 feet (18.3 m × 12.8 m). 

All air raid warnings were started from this bunker by red, yellow and white flares. There was also HQ located in North Ward, Townsville. 103 FCU was disbanded in Townsville on 21 January 1945.

[[Jimmy Carr]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Actors from London, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British stand-up comedians, Channel 4 presenters, Comedians from London, English atheists, English movie actors, English television presenters, English television writers, Irish comedians, Irish movie actors, Irish television personalities, Irish writers, People from Hounslow (London borough), Writers from London

Jimmy Carr (born 15 September 1972) is an English-Irish comedian. He is the presenter of 8 out of 10 Cats on Channel 4 and has presented other TV shows on the same channel. He travels around the country and performs a lot of comedy on-stage (stand-up comedy). He is one of the UK's most successful comedians.

He has released 6 DVDs. He has won awards.

[[Kingdom Records (UK)]]

CATEGORIES: British_record_labels

Kingdom Records is a British record label from the 1970s and 1980s that was important in early British and Jamaican dub music.

[[Whirlpool]]

CATEGORIES: Bodies of water

A whirlpool is a swirling body of water. It is usually produced by ocean tides. A bigger whirlpool is a maelstrom.

[[Clipper]]

CATEGORIES: Ships, Trade routes

A clipper was a very fast sailing ship of the 19th century.  The word "clipper" comes from a word meaning: "fast".  Clippers had several masts and a square rig. They were quite narrow for their length. Clipper ships were mostly made in British and American shipyards, but France, the Netherlands and other countries also made some. Clippers sailed all over the world, especially on the trade routes between the United Kingdom and its colonies in the east, in trans-Atlantic trade, and the New York-to-San Francisco route round Cape Horn during the California Gold Rush.  Dutch clippers were built beginning in 1850s for bringing tea to Europe and taking passengers to and from Java.

[[Kim Yoo-Jin]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, People from Busan

Kim You-Jin (born 19 June 1983) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Carlos Sánchez García]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Spanish association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Madrid

Carlos Sánchez García (born 18 January 1978) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Castellón.

[[Edmilson dos Santos Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Salvador, Bahia

Edmilson dos Santos Silva (born 15 September 1982) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Urawa Red Diamonds.

[[Mariinsky Theatre]]

CATEGORIES: Opera houses, Buildings and structures in Saint Petersburg, Ballet

The Mariinsky Theatre  is a famous theatre of opera and ballet in Saint Petersburg, Russia. It was opened in 1860 and soon became the most important theatre for opera and ballet in Russia.  Many great operas and ballets of the 19th century were first performed there, including the greatest stage works by Tchaikovsky, Mussorgsky, and Rimsky-Korsakov.

The Mariinsky Theatre is home to the Mariinsky Ballet, Mariinsky Opera and Mariinsky Orchestra.  The conductor Valery Gergiev has been the general director there since 1988.

[[Dragan Džajić]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Dragan Džajić (born 30 May 1946) is a former Serbian football player. He has played for Yugoslavia national team.

[[Masaki Yamamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Masaki Yamamoto (born 24 August 1987) is a Japanes football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.

[[Hisao Kuramata]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Hisao Kuramata (born 1 December 1958) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Baltic]]

Baltic might mean:

[[Shinichiro Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Shinichiro Takahashi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Nobuhiro Takeda (footballer, born 1965)]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Nobuhiro Takeda (born 22 March 1965) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Nobuhiro Ueno]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Yokohama Flügels players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, 1988 AFC Asian Cup players

Nobuhiro Ueno is a former Japanese football player and manager.

[[Koji Gyotoku]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japanese football managers, Sport in Bhutan

Koji Gyotoku is a former Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player and manager.

In 2008-2009, he was manager of Bhutan's national football team.

[[Marvell Wynne]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, American footballers

Marvell Wynne (born 8 May 1986) is an American soccer player. He plays for Colorado Rapids and United States national team.

[[Faas Wilkes]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2006 deaths, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Rotterdam

Faas Wilkes (13 October 1923 – 15 August 2006) was a Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Kazuhito Mochizuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Kazuhito Mochizuki (born 1 December 1957) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hidenori Kato]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Hidenori Kato (born 13 May 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gainare Tottori.

[[Shota Koide]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Shota Koide (born 29 September 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gainare Tottori.

[[Hirotsugu Nakabayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Hirotsugu Nakabayashi (born 28 April 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sanfrecce Hiroshima.

[[Hiroshi Narazaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Hiroshi Narazaki (born 1 June 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ante Šimundža]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Slovenian footballers

Ante Šimundža (born 28 September 1971) is a former Slovenian football player. He has played for Slovenia national team.

[[Toyoki Hasegawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Toyoki Hasegawa (born 18 April 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for HOYO Atletico ELAN Oita.

[[Takaaki Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Takaaki Suzuki (born 7 October 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kentaro Yoshida]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Kentaro Yoshida (born 5 October 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Peter Binkovski]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Slovenian footballers

Peter Binkovski (born 28 June 1972) is a former Slovenian football player. He has played for Slovenia national team.

[[Takuma Hidaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Takuma Hidaka (born 8 April 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagan Tosu.

[[Port of Hull]]

CATEGORIES: East Riding of Yorkshire, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom

The Port of Hull is a major sea port in the city of Kingston upon Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire, England. The port is located on the River Humber which leads to the North Sea. Around one million passengers use the port to get to Rotterdam, The Netherlands and Zeebrugge, Belgium. The port is used for the import of timber in the United Kingdom. The port has its own goods railway which is used to transport cargo inland.

[[Yoshihito Fujita]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Yoshihito Fujita (born 13 April 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.

[[Yu Eto]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Yu Eto (born 17 October 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagan Tosu.

[[Koji Hirose]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Koji Hirose (born 13 March 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi.

[[Tatsuya Kamohara]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Tatsuya Kamohara (born 8 July 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Machida Zelvia.

[[Hirotsugu Kakoi]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Hirotsugu Kakoi (born 10 July 1987) is a Japanese football player.

[[Masatoshi Mihara]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Masatoshi Mihara (born 2 August 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vissel Kobe.

[[Saint Petersburg Conservatory]]

CATEGORIES: Music schools, Buildings and structures in Saint Petersburg

The Saint Petersburg Conservatory is a famous music school in Saint Petersburg, Russia.  Its full name is N.A. Rimsky-Korsakov Saint Petersburg State Conservatory (Санкт-Петербургская государственная консерватория имени Н.А. Римского-Корсакова).  In 2004, the conservatory had around 275 teaching members and 1,400 students.

[[Mikhail Tal]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 1992 deaths, Chess grandmasters, Jewish sportspeople, Latvian chess players, Latvian Jews, People from Riga, Soviet Jews, Soviet sportspeople

Mikhail Tal, known as Mischa, (Riga, 9 November 1936 – Moscow, 28 June 1992) was a Soviet–Latvian chess player, a Grandmaster, and the eighth World Chess Champion.

Tal played in 21 Soviet championships, winning it six times, a record only equalled by Botvinnik. He was a member of eight Soviet teams which won the gold medal in chess Olympiads. He won the individual gold medal five times.

He holds the records for both the first and second longest unbeaten streaks in competitive chess history.p43 Many authorities consider him to have been the greatest attacking player of all time.

[[Game port]]

CATEGORIES: Video game consoles, Computer hardware, Electrical connectors

The Game port is a port that is present on some PC hardware, and hardware similar to it. This port lets the connection of analog devices used to control computer games, such as joysticks. In most relevant hardware designs for personal computers in 2010, the port is an integrated component on the sound card, another I/O card, or the motherboard itself. Starting with Windows Vista Microsoft no longer supports this port with drivers from the Operating System, but third party drivers are still available. There are also drivers that allow to map the game port to an USB device.

[[Clinical trial]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

A clinical trial is one of the steps needed to introduce a new drug or therapy. Depending on the drug, either volunteers or patients suffering from a disease or condition are enrolled in a study. In general, a number of the people taking part will receive the real drug, or a good treatment, and the rest of the people will receive a treatment or drug that has no effect, called a placebo. These tests are statistical tests.

Examples of study designs:

[[Bulgarian]]

Bulgarian might mean:

[[Yuki Kuriyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Yuki Kuriyama (born 15 September 1988) is a Japanese football player.

[[Keiji Takachi]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Keiji Takachi (born 23 April 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.

[[Takeshi Hamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Takeshi Hamada (born 21 December 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Junya Yamashiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Junya Yamashiro (born 19 June 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for V-Varen Nagasaki.

[[Yoshiya Takemura]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Yoshiya Takemura (born 6 December 1973) is a Japanese football player. He plays for V-Varen Nagasaki.

[[Asuka Tateishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Asuka Tateishi (born 9 June 1983) is a Japanese football player.

[[Yasuhiro Tominaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Yasuhiro Tominaga (born 22 May 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kenji Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture, Vanraure Hachinohe players

Kenji Tanaka (born 13 December 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Zweigen Kanazawa.

[[Takashi Azuma]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture

Takashi Azuma (born 21 November 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yoshimi Sasahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Yoshimi Sasahara (born 2 April 1974) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Paul Keres]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1975 deaths, Chess grandmasters, Estonian sportspeople

Paul Keres (7 January 1916 – 5 June 1975) was an Estonian and Soviet chess grandmaster. From about 1937 to 1962 he was one of the top four players in the world.

Keres narrowly missed a chance at a World Chess Championship match on five occasions.p197 He came equal first in the 1938 AVRO tournament, which led to negotiations for a world championship match with Alexander Alekhine, but the match never took place due to World War II. Instead, he played a 14-game match with ex-World Champion Max Euwe in the Netherlands, December 1939 – January 1940. Keres won a hard-fought struggle by 7.5–6.5 (+6 =3 –5). This was a superb achievement: not only was Euwe a former World Champion, but he had enormous experience at match play, far more than Keres.

Estonia had enjoyed independence after World War I, but was annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940. Keres came second to Botvinnik in the 1941 Leningrad/Moscow Absolute Championship of the USSR. Soon Estonia was annexed again, this time by the Nazi forces. After the war it was seized again by the Soviet Union.

After the war he took part in the 1948 World Championship match-tournament of five top players, which decided the successor to Alekhine. This was won by Botvinnik, and Keres came equal third with Reshevsky. He was then the runner-up in the Candidates' tournament on four consecutive occasions: 1953, 1956, 1959 and 1962. Keres won the USSR championship three times, in 1947, 1950 and 1951. The latter was probably the strongest-ever Soviet championship; it had ten other players who had played in Candidates' tournaments, three of whom won the world title.

Keres played for the USSR in seven successive Chess Olympiads, wining seven team medals, and five individual board medals. Due to these and other strong results, many commentators consider Keres to be the strongest player never to become World Chess Champion. He was nicknamed "The Crown Prince of Chess".p198

Keres was always a man, and never missed the opportunity to say he was an Estonian, not a Russian. When he played at the annual Hastings tournament in 1954/55, a KGB man sat on a chair outside his room at night. He was there "to prevent the grandmaster being disturbed". Paul's demeanor at the board was always totally calm. From looking at him, you could not tell how much time he had left, or what kind of position he had. He had mastered the art of self-control, and his nickname amongst other players was 'Old Stoneface'.

Botvinnik thought his death was "the greatest loss suffered by chess since the death of Alekhine". In his opinion, Keres failed to reach the top because of "a tendency to fade somewhat at decisive moments in the struggle".p198 A rumour that the Soviets had persuaded him to lose deliberately to Botvinnik in the 1948 World Championship has no evidence to back it up.

Keres memorial tournaments are held in Tallinn every two years.

[[Keres]]

Keres may be one of these pages:

[[Anne of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: 1601 births, People from Valladolid, 1666 deaths, Habsburg Dynasty, House of Bourbon, Kings and Queens consort of France

Anne of Austria, Infanta of Spain, Infanta of Portugal, Archduchess of Austria (Ana María Mauricia; 22 September 1601 – 20 January 1666), Anne d’Autriche in French, was Queen consort of France and Navarre. She also acted as a regent for her son, Louis XIV of France. During her regency (1643–1651) Cardinal Mazarin served as France's chief minister.

[[Eric S. Raymond]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, American bloggers

Eric S. Raymond (often called ESR; born 4 December 1957) is an American writer and computer programmer. He became famous when he picked up maintenance of The Jargon File.

==References== 

[[Bourne End, Buckinghamshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Buckinghamshire

Bourne End is a village in Buckinghamshire, England.  It is near where the River Wye meets the River Thames.

[[2009–10 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League seasons

The 2009–10 NHL season was the 92nd season of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the 100th season since the founding of the predecessor National Hockey Association (NHA). It ran from October 1, 2009, including four games in Europe on October 2 and 3—until April 11, 2010, with the 2010 Stanley Cup playoffs currently being played, all the way up to early June 2010. A mid-season break from February 15 to 28 occurred to allow participation of NHL players in the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. Because of the Winter Olympics break, there was no NHL All-Star Game for 2010.

[[RMS]]

RMS may mean:

[[Joe Mauer]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, American baseball players, Minnesota Twins players, Sportspeople from Saint Paul, Minnesota

Joe Mauer (born 1983) is a baseball player who plays for the Minnesota Twins in Major League Baseball. He plays the position of catcher. He was the 2009 Most Valuable Player in the American League, and had the highest batting average in the American League in 2006, 2008, and 2009. Mauer is from St. Paul, Minnesota.

[[Death of a Salesman]]

CATEGORIES: Plays, Suicide in fiction

Death of a Salesman is a 1949 tragedy play which was written by Arthur Miller and was done into a Death of a Salesman in 1951.

[[Continuum hypothesis]]

CATEGORIES: Set theory

The continuum hypothesis is a hypothesis that there is no set that is both bigger than that of the natural numbers and smaller than that of the real numbers. Georg Cantor stated this hypothesis in 1877.

There are infinitely many natural numbers, the cardinality of the set of natural numbers is infinite. This is also true for the set of real numbers, but there are more real numbers than natural numbers.  We say that the natural numbers have infinite cardinality and the real numbers have infinite cardinality, but the cardinality of the real numbers is greater than the cardinality of the natural numbers.

This hypothesis is the first problem on the list of 23 problems David Hilbert published in 1900. Kurt Gödel showed in 1939, that the hypothesis cannot be falsified using Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory. The Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory is the set theory commonly used in mathematics. Paul Cohen showed in the 1960s that the Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory cannot be used to prove the continuum hypothesis, either. For this, Cohen was awarded the Fields Medal.

[[Flexibility training]]

CATEGORIES: Fitness

 Flexibility training refers to developing a wide range of movement in a joint or series of joints that is attainable in a momentary effort with the help of a partner or a piece of equipment. Human flexibility is not the same in all joints. Thus, some easily perform longitudinal splits but are very hard in transversal ones. Flexibility in some joints can be increased to a certain degree by stretching.

Flexibility training has long been underestimated and perhaps overlooked by health-care professionals. Quality of life is considerably enhanced by improving and maintaining a good range of motion in the joints. 

[[Washington Luiz Mascarenhas Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Washington Luiz Mascarenhas Silva (born 17 July 1978) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Kazuhiro Murata]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Kazuhiro Murata (born 12 May 1969) used to be a Japanese football player. He is now retired.

[[Junichi Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Junichi Watanabe is a former Japanese football player.

[[Taku Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Taku Watanabe (born 9 November 1971) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Satoru Mochizuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, NKK SC players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Kyoto Sanga FC players

Satoru Mochizuki is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Koji Kataoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Koji Kataoka (born 19 July 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jun Ideguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Jun Ideguchi (born 14 May 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Sugao Kambe]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Sugao Kambe (born 2 August 1961) is a former Japanese football player. Kambe started to coach JEF United Ichihara Chiba in October, 2011.

[[Salif Keïta]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Malian footballers, People from Bamako

Salif Keïta (born 6 December 1946) is a former Malian football player. He has played for Mali national team.

[[Sagan Tosu]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, Saga Prefecture, 1987 establishments in Japan

Sagan Tosu is a Japanese professional football club in Tosu on the island of Kyushu.

[[The Fountainhead]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century American novels, 1943 books, English-language novels

The Fountainhead is a novel written by Ayn Rand. The book was first printed in 1943.

The theme of Rand's fictional story is the belief that selfishness can be ethically good for people in a workplace. Altruism can actually make a person a servant or slave to other people. This novel has many themes that support philosophies of objectivism, and capitalism.  There are themes that are against the idea of communism. The use of architecture and skyscrapers in this novel show that humans are able to do great things. Rand's belief in the novel is that a person should only work at something they love doing.

[[A Raisin In The Sun]]

CATEGORIES: Chicago, Illinois in fiction, Plays

A Raisin In The Sun is an American play that was written by Lorraine Hansberry in 1959. It is about a poor African American family in Chicago who receives $10,000 in inheritance money. The family has to decide how to spend the money.

[[Arctic fox]]

CATEGORIES: Foxes, Mammals of North America, Mammals of Asia, Mammals of Europe

The Arctic fox, (or 'white fox', 'polar fox', 'snow fox'), is Vulpes lagopus. It is a small fox which lives in the Arctic. The fox is about 10-12 inches high (25–30 cm) and it weighs from 6.5 to 21 pounds (2.7-4.5 kg).The females tend to be smaller than the males. The Arctic fox has a round body shape, short nose and legs, and short, fluffy ears.  It has a deep thick fur which is brown in summer and white in winter. Arctic foxes live for about 3 to 6 years.  

This fox can live in the cold north even when it is -30F. Their thick fur keeps them warm. The fur of the Arctic fox provides the best insulation of any mammal. Its broad, fluffy paws let it walk on ice and snow to look for food. The Arctic fox has very good ears so that it can hear small animals under the snow. When it hears an animal under the snow, it jumps and punches through the snow to catch its victim. Arctic foxes are omnivores. They eat lemmings, arctic hares, fish, birds, eggs, fruit, insects, small seals and carrion.

Arctic foxes do not hibernate. They grow thicker fur in the Autumn, and  put on more than 50% of their body weight as fat for insulation and as energy reserves.

It takes 53 days for the pups to grow in the mother before they are born. The mother can produce 5-8 cubs, and sometimes as many as 25 cubs. Both the mother and the father help to raise their young pups. The young females leave the family and form their own groups and the males stay with the family. Arctic foxes form pairs in the breeding season. Litters are born in the early summer. The parents raise the young in a large den under the ground. The pups are born with brown fur. As they grow older, their fur turns white. Arctic foxes sleep with their tails wrapped around themselves. Arctic foxes also have a keen sense of smell. They can smell carcasses that are often left by polar bears as far away as 10 to 40 km.

[[DFB-Pokal]]

CATEGORIES: Football competitions

The DFB-Pokal (until 1943: Tschammer-Pokal) is a German football competition.

[[Rabah Madjer]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Algerian footballers, Algerian football managers

Rabah Madjer (born 15 February 1958) is a former Algerian football player. He has played for Algeria national team.

[[Yulian Sokhotski]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1927 deaths, Academics, People from Warsaw, Polish mathematicians, Russian mathematicians

Yulian Karol Sokhotski (February 2, 1842, Warsaw, Congress Poland, Russian Empire – December 14, 1927, Leningrad, Soviet Union) was a Polish-Russian mathematician.

[[Wilson's storm petrel]]

CATEGORIES: Procellariiformes, Seabirds

The Wilson's storm-petrel (Oceanites oceanicus), also known as Wilson's petrel, is a small seabird of the storm petrel family, the Hydrobatidae. It is one of the most abundant bird species in the world and has a circumpolar distribution mainly in the seas of the southern hemisphere but extending northwards during the summer of the northern hemisphere. The world population has been estimated to be more than 50 million pairs. The name commemorates the Scottish-American ornithologist Alexander Wilson.

[[Red-billed Tropicbird]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Pakistan

The Red-billed Tropicbird, Phaethon aethereus, also known as the Boatswain Bird is a tropicbird, one of three closely related seabirds of tropical oceans. It occurs in the tropical Atlantic, eastern Pacific and Indian Oceans.

The Indian Ocean race of the Red-billed Tropicbird, P. a. indicus, was at one time considered a full species, the Lesser Red-billed Tropicbird from Pakistan and the western Republic of India.

[[Red-tailed tropicbird]]

CATEGORIES: Seabirds

The red-tailed tropicbird (Phaethon rubricauda) is a seabird that nests across the Indian and Pacific Oceans. It is the rarest of the tropicbirds, but is  widespread and not considered threatened. It nests in colonies on oceanic islands.

[[Aida]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Giuseppe Verdi, Operas

Aida (or, Aïda) is an Italian opera in four acts. The music was written by Giuseppe Verdi. The libretto (story and words) was written by Antonio Ghislanzoni. The opera is based on a story written by the French Egyptologist Auguste Mariette. Aida was first performed at the Opera House in Cairo on December 24, 1871. This production starred Antonietta Anastasi-Pozzoni as  Aida, Pietro Mongini as Radames, Eleonora Grossi as Amneris, and Francesco Seller as Amonasro. 

Aida (pronounced "ah-EE-dah") is the name of the main female character in the opera.  It is an Arabic girl's name meaning "visitor" or "returning".

[[Atropine]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Atropine is a tropane alkaloid, that can be extracted from the deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna), mandrake (Mandragora officinarum) and certain other plants. It is mainly used as a drug.  Atropine can be deadly.  The substance derives its name from Atropos, one of the three Fates. In Greek mythology, the Fates chose how a person was to die. Atropine is a core medicine in the World Health Organization's "Essential Drugs List", which is a list of minimum medical needs for a basic health care system.

The second part of the Latin name (belladonna, pretty woman) comes from the fact that it can be used to temporarily disable the eye's adaptation to light. This will lead to "big" pupils, which were considered pretty in a woman of the Renaissance. Atropine can also be used to resuscitate patients that have gone into cardiac arrest. It can also be used as an antidote to certain poison gases and insecticides. 

[[Vladimir Uzoykin]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Russian footballers

Vladimir Vladimirovich Uzoykin (Владимир Владимирович Узойкин; born November 17, 1980) is a Russian football player. Since August 2009, he has played for FC (Football Club) Volga Tver. 

[[Townsville]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Queensland

Townsville is a city on the northern east coast of Queensland. It is the largest regional city in Queensland and in 2010 was made a second capital by Premier Anna Bligh to take the stress of governing off the southeast corner of Queensland.

Before the city was made a capital, Townsville was often referred to as the capital of North Queensland, but the split of the state never occurred.

Popular attractions include 'The Strand', a long tropical beach and garden strip; Riverway, a riverfront parkland attraction on the banks of Ross River; Reef HQ, a large tropical aquarium holding many of the Great Barrier Reef's native flora and fauna; the Museum of Tropical Queensland, built around a display of relics from the sunken British warship HMS Pandora; and Magnetic Island, a large neighbouring island, the vast majority of which is national park.

[[Tsai Ing-wen]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Alumni of the London School of Economics, Cornell University alumni, Government ministers, Presidents of the Republic of China

Tsai Ing-wen (蔡英文; born 31 August 1956) is the president of the Republic of China (Taiwan) since 20 May 2016 and is the first female chosen to the position. She is the current Chairperson of the Democratic Progressive Party since 2008. Her nickname is Siao-Ing (小英).

Tsai won re-election in the 2020 Taiwan presidential election facing Han Kuo-yu (KMT).

[[Pheromone]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology, Physiology, Hormones, Endocrinology

A pheromone is a scent given off by some animals. The scent causes a social response in members of the same species.

There are many types of pheromone, such as:

All pheromones work by inherited instinct, not by learning. They occur in most animals, but are especially obvious in insects.

[[Kronborg]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Denmark, World Heritage Sites in Europe

Kronborg is a castle near the town of Helsingør on the extreme north-east part of Zealand, Denmark. 

The castle is at the narrowest point of the Øresund, the sound between Denmark and Sweden. In this part, the sound is only 4 km wide. Because of this it was important to keep a fortress to command one of the few outlets of the Baltic Sea. The castle has for centuries been one of the most important Renaissance castles in Northern Europe. It was added to UNESCO's World Heritage Sites list on November 30, 2000. 

People know Kronborg well as "Elsinore". This is the place where the play Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, written by William Shakespeare, is supposed to have happened. Hamlet was performed in the castle for the first time on the 200th anniversary of the death of William Shakespeare. The soldiers from the castle were some of the players.

[[Güstrow]]

Güstrow is a town in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Germany. It is the capital of the district of Güstrow. It had 30,500 people in 2008. It is the seventh largest town in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. Since 2006 Güstrow has the official suffix Barlachstadt.

[[Christian IV of Denmark]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens of Denmark, 1577 births, 1648 deaths

Christian IV (12 April 1577 – 28 February 1648) was the king of Denmark-Norway from 1588 until his death. He had a rule of more than 59 years. Because of this, he has the longest rule of all the kings of Denmark. He is sometimes referred to as Christian Firtal in Denmark and Christian Kvart or Quart in Norway.

[[Sex determination]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics, Developmental biology, Cell biology, Biological reproduction

Sex determination is a process of development by which the sex of an individual is settled. Sex is a method of reproduction which is widespread among living things. It requires two individuals of the same species.

Usually, the sexes are separate. Sex may be determined in one of two ways:

Where both sexes occur on the same individual, that individual is an hermaphrodite. Hermaphrodite systems can be found in some animals, for example snails, and in most flowering plants.

[[Sketches by Boz]]

CATEGORIES: Books by Charles Dickens, Fiction books

Sketches by "Boz," Illustrative of Every-day Life and Every-day People (usually known as Sketches by Boz) is a collection of short pieces written by Charles Dickens. The book was published in 1836. The first edition was illustrated by George Cruikshank.

[[Hiroshi Tetsuto]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Hiroshi Tetsuto (born 28 September 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Matsumoto Yamaga.

[[Victor Piţurcă]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Romanian footballers, Romanian football managers

Victor Piţurcă (born 8 May 1956) is a former Romanian football player. He has played for Romania national team.

[[Anghel Iordănescu]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Romanian footballers, Romanian football managers

Anghel Iordănescu (born 4 May 1950) is a former Romanian football player. He has played for Romania national team.

[[Édison Méndez]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Ecuadorian footballers, People from Quito

Édison Méndez (born 16 March 1979) is an Ecuadorian football player. He plays for Quito and Ecuador national team.

[[Seiji Honda]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokushima Prefecture

Seiji Honda) is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.  He played for the Japan national football team.

[[Teruaki Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Teruaki Kobayashi (born 20 June 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vissel Kobe.

[[Hiroyuki Komoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Hiroyuki Komoto (born 4 September 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vissel Kobe.

[[Oleg Romantsev]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Russian footballers, Russian football managers

Oleg Romantsev (born 4 January 1954) is a former Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team.

[[Daisuke Tada]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Okayama Prefecture

Daisuke Tada (born 11 August 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.

[[Masahito Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Masahito Suzuki (born 28 April 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Equirectangular projection]]

CATEGORIES: Map projections

The equirectangular projection (also called the geographic projection) is a simple map view made about 100 AD. The projection maps Longitude and Latitude (vertical and horizontal map lines) to even straight lines. Because the map is stretched out, it can not be used in navigation. Its main use is to show large map areas.

[[Zack Greinke]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Arizona Diamondbacks players, Kansas City Royals players, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, Milwaukee Brewers players, Sportspeople from Orlando, Florida

Donald Zackary "Zack" Greinke (born October 21, 1983 in Orlando, Florida) is a Major League Baseball (MLB) pitcher for the Arizona Diamondbacks. While pitching for the Kansas City Royals, he won the 2009 American League Cy Young Award, which is an award that goes to the player that is voted as the best pitcher in the league for that year. Greinke has also pitched for the Milwaukee Brewers, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, and the Los Angeles Dodgers.

[[DK]]

This page is a disambiguation page for the term DK.

[[Scheherazade]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters

Scheherazade is a legendary Persian queen who is the storyteller in One Thousand and One Nights.

The story, which was written many hundreds of years ago, tells of a Arabian king who married a young girl every night. At the end of every night he would send his new wife to have her head chopped off. He had already killed 3000 women in this way.

Then, one day, Scheherazade heard about the king. She said she wanted to spend the night with him. Her father disagreed, but she still went. She spent all night telling him a story. At the end of the night she stopped the story at an exciting moment. The king wanted to hear the end of the story, but Scheherazade said he would have to wait until the next night to hear the rest.

The next night she finished the story and began another one, which she again stopped when it was dawn. The king had to wait another night to hear the rest of the story. Scheherazade kept this up for 1001 nights. She told him 1001 stories. In the end the king had fallen in love with Scheherazade and they already had three children, so he did not have her executed.

[[Stretching]]

CATEGORIES: Fitness

Stretching is a kind of physical fitness exercise in which a muscle (or muscle group) is stretched on purpose to its fullest length in order to help the muscle's elasticity and its tone. This helps a person have better control of his or her muscles and be more flexible.

Stretching, in its most basic form, is a natural and instinctive activity; it is done by many animals including humans. It may be done while yawning. Stretching often is done instinctively after waking from sleep, after long periods of being inactive, or after leaving small spaces and areas.

Many athletes and dancers stretch deliberately before or after exercise in order to enhance performance and reduce injury. 

There are three basic types of stretching: ballistic, dynamic, and static stretching.

[[Debit card]]

CATEGORIES: Money

A debit card (also known as a bank card or check card) is a plastic card that is used as a payment method to cash when buying things.  It is similar to a credit card, but unlike a credit card, it does not borrow money.  Instead, the money comes directly from the user's bank account, and if there is no money it does not work.

[[Sunbelt]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the United States

The Sun Belt is a term for the states in the southwestern and southeastern United States.  Many people moved to these states from northern states in the years since World War II. A lot of older and retired people live there; these people are called "snowbirds" because they retired to a place with better weather than where they lived before.  These places have large suburbs such as Sun City, Arizona, Lakewood, California, and Hialeah, Florida. States that are the best examples of the Sun Belt are California, Florida, and Arizona.

There is a college sports conference called the Sun Belt.

[[Takuya Mikami]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Takuya Mikami is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football player.

[[Kentoku Noborio]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Kentoku Noborio (born 30 November 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Hideaki Ueno]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Hideaki Ueno (born 31 May 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Yuki Okubo]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Yuki Okubo (born 17 April 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi.

[[Keizo Imai]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Shonan Bellmare players

Keizo Imai is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Haruhisa Hasegawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Cerezo Osaka players

Haruhisa Hasegawa is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hiroyuki Usui]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Kashiwa Reysol players

Hiroyuki Usui is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Takeo Wakabayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1937 deaths, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Takeo Wakabayashi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Bruno N'Gotty]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, French footballers, Sportspeople from Lyon

Bruno N'Gotty (born 10 June 1971) is a French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Mito HollyHock]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, Ibaraki Prefecture

Mito HollyHock is a Japanese professional football club in Mito.

[[Serpopard]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology, Archaeology

A serpopard is a mythological animal, often seen carved on cosmetic palettes (used for mixing antimony as eye shadow), during the Old Kingdom of Egypt. These palettes were made in the earliest days of history, before the pharaohs. 

A serpopard looks like a leopard; however it has a very long neck unlike a leopard. In the carved pictures, they are seen being led by ropes and harnesses while they serve the Egyptians as domesticated animals.  Skilled Egyptian artists always carved real animals in exactly the right shape, but the serpopard is thought to be only a mythological creature. In a later time, a similar creature would be shown  in the art of Sumer and Elam.

[[Plott Hound]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The Plott Hound is a medium size breed of dog. They are usually 20-25 inches tall (51-61 cm). Plott Hounds weigh about 45-55 pounds (20-25 kg). They are well-muscled and strong. The Plotts have double coats which are smooth and glossy. They can be any shade of brown, black, or tan. The coat has a striped pattern. They usually have a white patch on the chest. The head is flat with a long muzzle. Their ears are wide and medium in length.

[[Mary Cassatt]]

CATEGORIES: American painters, People from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 1844 births, 1926 deaths

Mary Stevenson Cassatt (May 22, 1844 – June 14, 1926) was an American artist. She lived in France for many years.  She often painted mothers and children.

Cassatt was born in Allegheny City, Pennsylvania, which is now part of Pittsburgh, to rich parents. She was one out of seven kids.  As a child, she traveled a lot in Europe, including visits to London, Paris, and Berlin.  Back in the United States, she studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 

She moved to Paris, France in 1866, returning to the US in 1870 during the Franco-Prussian War. 

Degas influenced Cassatt. She used pastels, making many important works with them. He also taught her etching. 

She had less time in the 1890's. She became less blunt in her opinions. Other American artists sought her advice. Among them was Lucy A. Bacon.,

From 1891 to 1893, she painted a large mural for the 1893 Chicago World's Fair (Columbian Exposition).  The mural had three parts - the central theme was Young Women Plucking the Fruits of Knowledge or Science. The left panel was Young Girls Pursuing Fame and the right panel Arts, Music, Dancing.  The mural was lost after the fair was over.  

She died on June 14, 1926 at Château de Beaufresne, near Paris, and was buried in the family vault at Le Mesnil-Théribus, France.

[[Crazy Eights]]

CATEGORIES: Card games

Crazy Eights is a card game similar to UNO.  It can be played with 2-4 players and 1 or 2 decks.  The object of the game is to get rid of all cards in your hand. Whenever an eight is played, it changes the suit.

[[Ada Lovelace]]

CATEGORIES: 1815 births, 1852 deaths, English computer scientists, Scientists from London, Female scientists

Augusta Ada King, Countess of Lovelace (10 December 1815 – 27 November 1852) wrote the world's first computer program.

[[Shreveport, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Ark-La-Tex, Former United States state capitals, Parish seats in Louisiana, Shreveport, Louisiana

Shreveport (ˈ SHREEV) is a city in Louisiana. It has a population of 199,311 in 2010. It is the third largest city in Louisiana, after New Orleans and Baton Rouge. It was founded in 1836 where the Red River meets the Texas Trail (now Interstate 20) and US Highway 80. The history of this city it was first adapted by the Caddo.

During the American Civil War, Shreveport was the capital of Louisiana from 1863–1865. The capital moved here after, first, Baton Rouge, and then Opelousas each fell under Union control. The city was a Confederate stronghold throughout the war and was the site of the headquarters of the Trans-Mississippi Department of the Confederate Army. Isolated from events in the east, the Civil War continued in the Trans-Mississippi theater for several weeks after Robert E. Lee's surrender in April 1865, and the Trans-Mississippi was the last Confederate command to surrender, on May 26, 1865. Confederate President Jefferson Davis attempted to flee to Shreveport when he left Richmond but was captured en route in Irwinville, Georgia.

[[Pinochle]]

CATEGORIES: Card games

Pinochle (pronounced pea-nukkle) is a card game.  It is played with four players on two teams.  It can be played with one or two special pinochle decks.  A pinochle deck has 48 cards, two each of 9, 10, J, Q, K, and A in each suit.  A pinochle game has four hands.  The team with the highest score at the end of four hands wins.  The first part of a hand is melding.  Various combos of cards can be melded.  (for example, having two Js of diamonds and two Qs of spades is worth 300 points).  The team that bids the highest is allowed to call, the suit that will count higher in melds and take tricks.  The second part of a hand is the tricks.  Each player throws in a card.  The player with the highest trump card, or highest card of the suit led, takes the trick.  Each K, 10, or A taken in tricks is worth 10 points.

[[Atom (feed)]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

The name Atom applies to a pair of related standards. The Atom Syndication Format is an XML language used for web feeds. The Atom Publishing Protocol (AtomPub or APP) is a simple HTTP-based system of rules for creating and updating web resources.

[[Pop Chronicles]]

CATEGORIES: Radio programs, Documentaries, American music history

The Pop Chronicles were two radio documentaries.  They told the story of music that was popular in America in the 1940s, 1950s, and 1960s.  John Gilliland made both documentaries.

[[Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications, Mobile phones

Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications (DECT), known as Digital European Cordless Telephone until 1995, is an ETSI standard for digital portable phones and wireless data transfer. DECT has been standardised as EN 300 175.

DECT phones have two parts:  One part is connected to the phone network, and usually called base station.  The other part is a mobile handset.  To be ready to communicate, each handset must be registered with the base station.  After that, they can communicate and be used as normal "cordless" phones.

DECT uses a  frequency band that is reserved for voice transmissions, called Unlicensed Personal Communications Services. In Europe, Asia, Australia, New Zealand and South America, the frequency band from 1880 MHz to 1900 MMHz is used. In the United States, the band is 1920-1930 MHz.To be sold in the US, only small changes need to be made to DECT equipment. These channels are reserved exclusively for voice communication applications and therefore are less likely to experience interference from other wireless devices such as baby monitors and wireless networks.

A newer standard that is similar to DECT is called CAT-iq

[[Epcot]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Florida, Disney - Orlando, Theme parks in Florida

Epcot (Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow) is part of Disney World in Orlando, Florida. It is split into two parts: Future World and the World Showcase. Future World has many rides and shows about technology, including space travel and how people interact with nature. The World Showcase is split into sections representing eleven countries, sharing the culture of each country there. The symbol of the park is  Spaceship Earth, a huge building that looks like a golf ball and has a ride inside.

Walt Disney's original plan for Epcot was for it to be a neighborhood for people to live in with many modern machines aiding their lives. It was going to be called the Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow, which is where the name EPCOT comes from. Disney died before he could start his plan, and later the new owners of the Walt Disney Company changed the plans into a theme park.

[[Aleph null]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

[[Cranston, Rhode Island]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Rhode Island

Cranston is a town in Rhode Island. It is near Providence.

[[Eyjafjallajökull]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Iceland

Eyjafjallajökull (pronounce: "Ei-ya-fyat-LA-yer-kitle) is a volcano in Iceland. The name means "island-mountains glacier".

The south end of the mountain was once part of the coastline of the Atlantic ocean. The sea gradually moved about 5km south. Now there are beautiful steep cliffs and waterfalls. 

The volcano erupted several times in 1821 and 1822. Some cattle and sheep died, presumably because of fluoride poisoning.

[[Anonymous function]]

CATEGORIES: Computer programming, Functions and mappings, Mathematical notation

[[The History of Rock and Roll]]

CATEGORIES: Radio programs, Documentaries, Rock music, American music history

The History of Rock & Roll was a radio documentary on rock and roll music.   It was first broadcast in 1969.  The 1969 version was 48 hours long.  The 1978 version was 52 hours long. The History of Rock & Roll told the story of Rock and Roll music from the early 1950s to its day.  Producers Bill Drake and Gene Chenault called  this a "rockumentary".  The show interviewed many musicians.

Los Angeles radio station KHJ first broadcast this show on February 21-23, 1969. In the fall of 1969 many other stations broadcast this documentary.

[[Ward Burton]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Daytona 500 winners, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Virginia

John Edward Burton III (born October 25, 1961) is an American racecar driver. He last drove in the NASCAR Sprint cup series in 2007. Burton has five Sprint cup wins, including the 2002 Daytona 500. Burton's brother Jeff drives in the Sprint cup series for Richard Childress Racing.

[[Italian conquest of British Somali Coast Protectorate]]

CATEGORIES: World War II

The Italian conquest of the British Somali Coast Protectorate was an Italian campaign during World War II against the British Empire. It was the only Italian victory against the Allies that was won without help from Germany.

[[List of cities in Australia by population]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Australia, Lists of cities by country, Australia-related lists

List of Cities by population in Australia.

[[Tiago Jorge Honório]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Tiago Jorge Honório (born 4 December 1977) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Ferenc Bene]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2006 deaths, Hungarian footballers, Hungarian football managers

Ferenc Bene (17 December 1944 – 27 February 2006) was a Hungarian football player. He has played for Hungary national team.

[[Dwight Lodeweges]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Eredivisie managers, Sportspeople from Alberta

Dwight Lodeweges (born 26 October 1957) is a former Dutch football player and manager.

[[Toyoharu Takata]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Toyoharu Takata (born 12 February 1948) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yota Akimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yota Akimoto (born 11 July 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos.

[[Takumi Shima]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokushima Prefecture

Takumi Shima is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Akinobu Yokouchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Akinobu Yokouchi (born 30 November 1967) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jun Marques Davidson]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Jun Marques Davidson (born 7 June 1839) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Carolina RailHawks.

[[Jan Jönsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Jan Jönsson (born May 24, 1960) is a former Swedish football player.

[[MC Chris]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Writers from Illinois, Adult Swim, American voice actors, American rap musicians from Illinois, Musicians from Illinois, Actors from Illinois, People from Libertyville, Illinois, American bloggers

Christopher Brendan Ward (born September 2, 1975),October 2020 better known by his stage name MC Chris (stylized as mc chris), is an American rapper, voice actor, writer, and comedian.

He has appeared and contributed original lyrics to many of Williams Street Studios' shows on Adult Swim, most notably Aqua Teen Hunger Force.  Mc Chris is the voice of MC Pee Pants on the adult swim program Aqua Teen Hunger Force. He was a writer for The Brak Show.

[[H. Jon Benjamin]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, American stand-up comedians, American voice actors, Comedians from Massachusetts, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Massachusetts

Henry Jon Benjamin (born 23 May 1966 ) is an American stand-up comedian, actor and voice artist. He is the voice of Bob Belcher in Bob's Burgers. Benjamin was born in Worchester, Massachusetts. 

[[David Cross]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American movie actors, American voice actors, American television actors, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia

David Cross (born April 4, 1964) is an American comedian and actor who is known for playing Ian Hawke in the Alvin and the Chipmunks series and for voicing Crane in Kung Fu Panda 1, 2, and 3. 

[[Holy water]]

CATEGORIES: Christian religious objects

Holy water is water that is used as part of a religion or belief. It is water that has been made pure by being blessed by a priest. In the Catholic Church it is used for Sacraments, such as Baptism.

[[Shigemitsu Egawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Shigemitsu Egawa (born 31 January 1966) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hiroki Nakayama]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Hiroki Nakayama (born 13 December 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kyoto Sanga.

[[Osamu Kawamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Osamu Kawamoto (born 1 May 1952) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Raffaele Palladino]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Raffaele Palladino (born 17 April 1984) is an Italian football player. He plays for Genoa and Italy national team.

[[Lucien Laurent]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 2005 deaths, French footballers

Lucien Laurent (10 December 10, 1907 – April 11, 2005) was a former French footballer. He has played for France national team. He scored the first ever FIFA World Cup goal in France's 4-1 win against Mexico.

[[Roberto Júlio de Figueiredo]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Roberto Júlio de Figueiredo (born 20 February 1979) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Shota Matsuhashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Shota Matsuhashi is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football or soccer player.

[[Carlos Esteves]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Carlos Esteves (born 5 March 1947) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Jan Polák]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Czech footballers, People from Brno

Jan Polák (born 14 March 1981) is a Czech football player. He plays for Anderlecht and Czech Republic national team.

[[Shen Bao]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in Asia, China

Shen Bao (Chinese: 申報; Pinyin: Shēn Bào) was a newspaper published in Shanghai, China. It was published  between April 30, 1872 and May 27, 1949, making it the longest running for any newspaper in China. The name has also been transliterated as Shun Pao or Shen-pao. In English, the newspaper was usually called Shanghai News. The name is short for Shenjiang Xinbao. Shenjiang is a short form of Chunsheng jiang, the old name for the Huangpu River.

[[Merchant Navy]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in the United Kingdom

The British Merchant Navy, known simply as the Merchant Navy, is the maritime register of the United Kingdom, and describes the seagoing commercial interests of UK-registered ships and their crews. Merchant Navy vessels fly the Red Ensign, and are regulated by the Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA).

[[Kazumasa Kawano]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture

Kazumasa Kawano (born 7 November 1970) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takashi Rakuyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Toyama Prefecture

Takashi Rakuyama (born 11 August 1980) is a Japanese football player.

[[Yoshiya Nishizawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Yoshiya Nishizawa (born 13 June 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Urawa Red Diamonds.

[[Masahiro Okamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Masahiro Okamoto (born 17 May 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[Lee Baxter]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Swedish footballers, People from Helsingborg

Lee Baxter (born 17 June 1976) is a former Swedish football player.

[[Casiano Delvalle]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Paraguayan footballers

Casiano Delvalle (born 13 August 1970) is a former Paraguayan football player.

[[Josip Barišić]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Josip Barišić (born 7 March 1981) is a Croatian football player. He plays for Inter Zaprešić.

[[Yuji Kishioku]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Nippon Steel Yawata SC players

Yuji Kishioku is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Linking verb]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of speech

A linking verb is a verb that joins the subject of a sentence to the complement (the word or phrase needed to finish an idea).

Here are some examples of linking verbs:

('is' and 'are' are the linking verbs that connect the subject to the adjective or adjective phrase that describes it.) 

Many languages have one main linking verb. In English, this is the verb to be. People use this verb to show how or what something or someone is. Some languages, for example Portuguese and Spanish, have two different verbs for the two meanings of this verb.

Other languages, for example Arabic and Russian, do not have any linking verbs. That is because most languages without linking verbs have inflections, or word endings, that show what part of the sentence words are. Speakers of those languages can join the subject to the complement without any extra words since they share the same kind of inflection. For example, to say "I am a cat" word by word in Russian, a person only says "I cat" (Я кошка in Russian), but it is obvious to the Russian speaker what the meaning is because both words are in the nominative case, or the word form that shows that a word is the subject of a phrase. Since both words are in the subject form, the words are both linked together.

[[Evacuation]]

CATEGORIES: Safety

Evacuation is a term that comes from Latin language. Literally, it means emptying. Most of the time it means that people leave an area or a zone because of an imminent danger or threat. Evacuations are planned, and people should leave the zone of danger according to the plan.  The causes for evacuations can be natural disasters such as flooding or volcano eruptions, or they can be man-made ones, like a bomb in a building, a fire on a train in a tunnel or an industrial accident.

[[French defence]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The French defence is a chess opening, one of the asymmetric replies to 1.e4, namely 1...e6. It is the third most popular reply to 1.e4. Often, Black plays more actively on the queenside while White plays more actively on the kingside. 

A problem that Black often has in the French defence is finding a way for his light squared bishop to become active. Although this is true, it may not matter if Black knows what he is doing. The defence has a reputation for reliability, and has been played by many great players (such as Botvinnik), and has featured in several world championship matches. 

Typical examples go: 

[[Nimzo-Indian defence]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The Nimzo-Indian defence is a popular chess opening with these initial moves: 1.d4 Nf6 2.c4 e6 3.Nc3 Bb4. The basic idea is for Black to challenge for control of the central square e4. This comes at the cost of exchanging his Bb4 for the white Nc3 when White plays a3. The opening is named after Aaron Nimzovich, who developed and promoted it. Initially a hypermodern opening, it usually transposes (changes) into classical form, as black occupies central squares by ...c5 and ...d5.

The white central pawns are under restraint. Much preparation is needed before they can move forward.

[[Tsukasa Umesaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Oita Trinita players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Shonan Bellmare players

Tsukasa Umesaki is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Steed Malbranque]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, French footballers

Steed Malbranque (born 6 January 1980) is a French football player. He plays for Sunderland.

[[Daisuke Takahashi (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Daisuke Takahashi (born 18 September 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Cerezo Osaka.

[[Kim Jong-Song]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, North Korean footballers

Kim Jong-Song (born April 23, 1964) is a North Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the North Korean national team.

[[Giourkas Seitaridis]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Greek footballers

Giourkas Seitaridis (born 4 June 1981) is a Greek football player. He plays for Panathinaikos and Greece national team.

[[Pieter Huistra]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Friesland

Pieter Huistra (born 18 January 1967) is a Dutch football manager and former football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Salomon Kalou]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Ivorian footballers

Salomon Kalou (born 5 August 1985) is a Côte d'Ivoire football player. He plays for Chelsea and Côte d'Ivoire national team.

[[Masao Uchino]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Year of death missing, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players, Footballers at the 1956 Summer Olympics

Masao Uchino was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Fernando Cavenaghi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Fernando Cavenaghi (born 21 September 1983) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Girondins Bordeaux.

[[Jong Tae-Se]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, North Korean footballers

Jong Tae-Se (born 2 March 1984), also known as Chong Taese, is a North Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the North Korean national team.

[[Thespakusatsu Gunma]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, Gunma Prefecture, 1995 establishments in Japan

Thespakusatsu Gunma is a Japanese professional football club in Gunma Prefecture.

[[Joey Logano]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, NASCAR drivers, American racecar drivers

Joseph Thomas Logano (born May 27, 1990) is an American racecar driver who drives the No. 22 Ford Mustang in the NASCAR Cup Series for Team Penske. Logano is the 2018 NASCAR Cup Series champion. Until the start of the 2013 season, Logano drove the #20 Home Depot Toyota Camry for Joe Gibbs Racing. Logano won the 2009 rookie of the year award, and with his win at the New Hampshire Motor Speedway became the youngest drive to win a race in NASCAR history. He also won the 2012 Pocono 400 at Pocono Raceway from the pole, ending a 31 race losing streak for pole winners.

[[Pound-force]]

CATEGORIES: Imperial units

The pound-force, or simply pound (abbreviations: lb, lbf, or lbf), is a unit of force. The pound-force is about equal to the gravitational force applied on a mass of one pound on the surface of Earth. Since the 18th century, the unit has been used in low-precision measurements.

In the 20th century, people needed a more precise definition. An official value for acceleration due to gravity was needed. Today, as decided by the General Conference on Weights and Measures, standard gravity is usually taken to be 9.80665.

[[Long ton]]

CATEGORIES: Units of mass

The long ton is the imperial ton or 'weight ton'. It is used in the United Kingdom and several other Commonwealth countries. In their avoirdupois or Imperial system of measurements, it is equal to 2240 or 35 of salt water with a density of 64 lb/ft3 (1.025 g/ml). Many other countries use the metric tonne. It has some limited use in the United States, for measuring the displacement of ships. It was the unit recommended for warships by international agreements between the world wars, for example battleships were limited to 35,000 long tons.

[[Seismogram]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquakes, Earthquake engineering

A seismogram is a record of an earthquake induced motion at a measuring station as a function of time. Seismograms are usually taken by seismometers. Seisometers record motions in three cartesian axes (x, y, and z), with the z axis perpendicular to the Earth's surface and the x- and y- axes parallel to the surface.

Historically, seismograms were recorded on paper attached to rotating drums.  Some used pens on ordinary paper. Others used light beams to expose photosensitive paper.  Today, almost all seismograms are recorded digitally to make analysis by computer easier.  Seismograms are very important for measuring earthquakes using the Richter scale.

[[Nothosaur]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Sauropterygia, Marine reptiles

Nothosaurs were long-necked, long-tailed, fish-eating sauropterygian reptiles ranging from a few inches to 20 feet (6 m) long - they were not dinosaurs. Nothosaurs lived during the Triassic period. They may have evolved into the plesiosaurs.  These reptiles had a long, thin head with many sharp teeth; the front teeth were longer than the back teeth. The nostrils were on the top end of the snout. They breathed air but spent most of the time in the water. 

[[Hod Stuart]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1907 deaths, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Wanderers players, People from Ottawa, Stanley Cup champions

William Hodgson "Hod" Stuart (February 20, 1879 – June 23, 1907) was a Canadian professional ice hockey point (now called a defenceman) who played nine seasons for many teams in different leagues. He also played for a short time with the Ottawa Rough Riders football team. With his brother Bruce, Stuart played in the first professional ice hockey league, the International Professional Hockey League. In 1907 Stuart, thought of as the finest defender of the era, helped the Montreal Wanderers win the Stanley Cup, the trophy for best hockey team. A few months after winning the Cup, he died in a diving accident. The Wanderers hosted a all-star game to raise money for his family, the first time ever that an all-star game was played. When the Hockey Hall of Fame was created in 1945, Stuart was one of the first twelve players put in the Hall; his brother Bruce would also be elected into the Hall of Fame in 1961.

[[List of ZIP Code prefixes]]

CATEGORIES: Postal codes, United States Postal Service, United States-related lists

ZIP codes are numbered with the first number representing a certain group of U.S. states. The second and third numbers represent a region in that group of states or, in some cases, a large city. The fourth and fifth numbers representing a group of delivery addresses within that region. The main town in a region (if applicable) often gets the first ZIP codes for that region. Other towns are often given ZIP codes in numerical order, usually numerically.  Often, the biggest city in a prefix is given a zip code ending in 01.

The first digit of the ZIP code is used as follows:

This table lists the cities served by each three digit ZIP.  If the city name is in CAPITALS, it a three-digit prefix just for that city.  If the city is in italics, it is given a zip code that ends in 01.

[[Opium poppy]]

Opium poppy, Papaver somniferum var. album, is a species of plant. Opium and poppy seeds come from poppies.  A great number of opiates, such as morphine, heroin, and codeine, are made from opium.  The Latin name for the opium poppy means "sleep-bringing poppy, white form," probably because some of these opiates make people feel sleepy.

The poppy is the only species of Papaveraceae to be grown as an agricultural crop. Other species, such as Papaver rhoeas and Papaver argemone, are important agricultural weeds. They may be wrongly thought of as the crop.

The plant itself is also used as a decoration. Known as the "common garden poppy," it is widely grown as an ornamental flower in Europe, North America, South America, and Asia.

[[Mohamed Zidan]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Egyptian footballers, Egypt international footballers

Mohamed Zidan (born 11 December 1981) is an Egyptian football player. He plays for Borussia Dortmund and Egypt national team.

[[Koichi Ae]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Koichi Ae (born 15 April 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Opium Wars]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in Asia, Wars involving China, Wars involving France, Wars involving the United Kingdom, Wars involving the United States, 1850s in France, 1830s in the United Kingdom, 1840s in the United Kingdom

The Opium Wars were two wars between China and Western countries during the Qing dynasty. The first was between Great Britain and China and lasted from 1839 until 1842. The second was from 1856 to 1860 and involved France as well.

It was the British or, rather, the British East India Company, which brought opium to China. They brought it from the Bengal region of India to pay for Chinese goods such as porcelain, 

The wars were about many things other than opium. They were also about opening China to European and American trade and colonizations. Defeat weakened the Qing dynasty.

Opium is a natural substance in the seeds of the opium poppy.  Opium is extracted from the poppy seeds. It was usually smoked for its narcotic effect.  It can be converted into opiates. By 1787, the Company was sending 4,000 boxes of opium (each 77 kg) per year. this trade grew more in the 19th century.

[[Shunichi Ikenoue]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Gunma Prefecture, J1 League players, Japan　Soccer　League players, Gamba Osaka players, Yokohama Flügels players, Sagan Tosu players, 1988 AFC Asian Cup players

Shunichi Ikenoue is a former Japanese football player.

[[Seismometer]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquakes, Measuring tools

A seismometer or seismograph is an instrument that measures motions of the ground, including those  generated by earthquakes, nuclear explosions and other sources. 

Records of seismic waves called seismograms allow us to map the interior of the Earth, and to find and measure the size of those different sources.

The word derives from the Greek word, seismós, a shaking or quake, from the verb σείω, seíō, to shake; and μέτρον, métron, measure. 

The technique of using a seismometer to build up a picture of the Earth's interior is called seismic tomography.

[[Denny Landzaat]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Denny Landzaat (born 6 May 1976) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Feyenoord Rotterdam.

[[David Connolly]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Irish footballers, Sportspeople from London

David Connolly (born 6 June 1977) is an Irish football player. He plays for Southampton.

[[Antonio Valencia]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Ecuadorian footballers, Manchester United F.C. players

Antonio Valencia (born 4 August 1985) is an Ecuadorian football player. He plays for Manchester United and Ecuador national team.

[[Graham Kavanagh]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Irish footballers, Sportspeople from Dublin

Graham Kavanagh (born 2 December 1973) is an Irish football player. He plays for Carlisle United F.C.

[[Lee McCulloch]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Scottish footballers

Lee McCulloch (born 14 May 1978) is a Scottish football player. He plays for Rangers.

[[Cool Silly]]

CATEGORIES: Pop music groups, Taiwanese musical groups

Cool Silly (傻酷樂團) is a Taiwanese-American mainstream pop trio consisting of producer/singer Tone (仲維軍), singer/composer Ray Liu (劉軒蓁) and rapper/actor Leeway(藍力威). Renowned artist Tone (仲維軍) formed his own band after releasing his first debut album titled "我的6:57am", and recruited the other two members to form Cool Silly. They are well known throughout Taiwan with their hit "Fly" (我飛), which was the theme song for the 2010 Taipei International Flora Exposition (臺北國際花卉博覽會).  The song attracted many fans, which led to Cool Silly's debut in 2010 with the release of their first digital album, Cool Silly: The Prelude. Since their debut, they have often been compared with the Popular Taiwanese rock group, F.I.R., because of the similar formation of band members and attractive performance personalities.

The name Cool Silly comes from the band's ideology that "a person can't be cool unless they're silly as well".  The band insists that the personality of their music is not only "cool" but "silly" as well.

[[David Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Cheshire

David Wright (born 1 May 1980) is an English footballer. He plays for Ipswich Town.

[[Arjan de Zeeuw]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from North Holland

Arjan de Zeeuw (born 16 April 1970) is a Dutch football player.

[[Andreas Johansson]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Andreas Johansson (born 5 July 1978) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Aalborg.

[[Yohei Toyoda]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Ishikawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Nagoya Grampus players, Montedio Yamagata players, Kyoto Sanga FC players, Sagan Tosu players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Yohei Toyoda is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Paul Jewell]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from Liverpool

Paul Jewell (born 28 September 1964) is an English footballer turned manager who is currently the manager of Ipswich Town.

[[Nathan Ellington]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Bradford, Premier League players

Nathan Ellington (born 2 July 1981) is an English football player. He plays for Skoda Xanthi.

[[Jason Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Grenadian people, British footballers

Jason Roberts (born 25 January 1978) is a retired Grenadian football player.

[[Kim Jung-Hoon]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, People from Osaka

Kim Jung-Hoon is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an football player.

[[Ryuji Shimoshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Ryuji Shimoshi (born July 24, 1985) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Dew]]

CATEGORIES: Precipitation

Dew is a thin film of water that has condensed on the surface of objects near the ground in the morning or evening. These objects cool in the night. When they cool, the thin layer of air around them cools too. This makes some water vapor condense on the object. The condensation happens because the air is able to hold less water when it is cooled. The temperature when condensation begins is called the dew point. If the dew point temperature becomes lower than 32 °F (0 °C), the dew turns into frost. Most people agree that the water in the dew comes from the atmosphere. However, some studies suggest that it also comes up through the soil and then condenses on the ground. This happens, though, only when conditions are right.

Dew forms best when the atmosphere is clean, the air is calm, and there is not much wind. It does not always form in the night and outdoors, though. They also work when eyeglasses get steamy in warm, wet rooms. Dew may also happen in industrial processes. However, people use the word condensation more often than dew.

In the Old Testament dew is used as a symbol. Deuteronomy 32:3 says: "...my speech shall distill as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and as the showers upon the grass." (Deuteronomy)

[[666 (number)]]

CATEGORIES: Integers, Superstitions, New Testament, Christian eschatology

666 is a natural number after 665 and before 667. It is a number with many properties. 

One of these properties is that it is the sum of the first 36 natural numbers. That makes 666 a triangular number. 

666 is the sum of the first 144 decimals (digits after the decimal point) of pi. The number is also used in the 666 dating rule or rule of sixes which judges the attractiveness of men.

[[Jazz piano]]

CATEGORIES: Jazz music

Jazz piano is a word for the ways pianists play jazz. The piano has been an important part of the jazz, in both solo and group settings. Its role is one of the biggest. This is because of the instrument's combined melodic and harmonic nature. For this reason it is also an important tool in the understanding of jazz theory and arranging for jazz musicians and composers. Together with the guitar, vibraphone, and other keyboard instruments, the piano is one of the few instruments in a jazz combo which can play chords, instead of only single notes (as with the saxophone or trumpet).

[[Apito]]

CATEGORIES: Musical instruments

An apito is a whistle used in samba music to mean that one person stops playing music and that another person starts playing.

[[Jedward]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Europe, 2000s Irish music groups, 2010s Irish music groups, Living people, Celebrity Big Brother contestants, Irish pop music groups, Musicians from Dublin, Sibling musical duos, The X Factor contestants, Twin people

Jedward are an Irish pop rap duo based in the Republic of Ireland. They are twins John Paul Henry Daniel Richard Grimes and Edward Peter Anthony Kevin Patrick Grimes (born 16 October 1991). There were formed in the UK in 2009 as John & Edward. They were contestants on the 2009 series of UK TV talent show The X Factor and finished in sixth place. They have had one hit single featuring Vanilla Ice called "Under Pressure (Ice Ice Baby)" which reached number one in Ireland and number two in the UK. They were dropped by Sony and now are supported by Universal Music. They have released an album entitled "Planet Jedward", which charted at number 17 and a second single entitled "All The Small Things", which charted at number 46. Thay have since released two more albums, Victory (2011) and Planet Jedward (2012). The twins are releasing a single titled Free Spirit on May the 16th which was first played on Australia's KIIS 106.5.  They are also set to release an album later this year. They were contestants in the 2011 edition of Big Brother.

[[Marcionism]]

CATEGORIES: Gnosticism

Marcionism is a type of Christianity which started around 144 C.E. It was started by Marcion of Sinope in Rome. Marcionn believed in Jesus Christ, but did not accept the Bible or Yahweh. He was a dualist, and believed that the god who wrote the Old Testament was different than the god who wrote the New Testament. 

Traditionally members of the church are required to wear pointed-head garments to show reverence to the god of the Old Testament.

[[Chorley]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lancashire

Chorley is a town in Lancashire. The local MP is Lindsay Hoyle (Labour).

[[Clayton-le-Woods]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Lancashire

Clayton Le Woods is a village in Lancashire, situated roughly two miles outside the market town of Chorley. According to the United Kingdom Census 2001 it has a population of 14,528.

[[Divididos]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine rock bands, 1988 establishments in South America, Musical groups established in 1988, 20th-century establishments in Argentina

Divididos (Divided) is a Rock and cover band from Argentina. It was founded in 1988, when Sumo, another band, broke up because of the death of Luca Prodan, their main singer.

The band is known for mixing Rock and Argentinean folk music.

In 2005, the band received the Platinum Konex Award as best Rock Group of the 1995-2005 decade, with Patricio Rey y sus Redonditos de Ricota.

[[Gao Shun]]

CATEGORIES: Han Dynasty generals, 198 deaths, Year of birth unknown

Gao Shun (高順, ? – 198 AD) was a commander. He was known for his brave strength in battle. In the later period of the Han dynasty, Gao Shun served Lü Bu. He grew to be known as one of Lü Bu's best commanders. He was most well known for taking Xiaopei. He was also well known for his victory over an army led by Xiahou Dun. Xiahou Dun was an important general under Cao Cao. In the same year, however, Cao Cao himself came and attacked Lü Bu's base city, Xiapi. It was a victory for him. Gao Shun was executed with his lord, Lü Bu.

It is said that Gao Shun was very honest. He never drank wine. He did not accept any presents or bribes. According to the Records of Heroes (英雄記) by Wang Can, he led about 700 soldiers. However, It is said that his men are as brave as 10000.

[[Hitachi A-train]]

CATEGORIES: Trains

The A-train is a family of many trains originally designed and built by Hitachi Ltd. for use on the railway system in Japan. The A-train family is trains for commuter services and limited express services.

[[2 Maccabees]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Bible, Hanukkah

2 Maccabees is a book of the Catholic Bible which focuses on the Jews' revolt against Antiochus IV Epiphanes and ends with the defeat of the Syrian general Nicanor in 161 BC by Judas Maccabeus, the hero of the work.

2 Maccabees was written in Koine Greek, probably in Alexandria, Egpyt in 124 BC. It gives a revised version of the historical events recounted in the first seven chapters of 1 Maccabees but mainly focuses on the theological implications of 1 Maccabees. Important things mentioned are prayer for the dead, martyrdom (meaning dying for a cause) and intercession of the dead (meaning dead people answering prayers).

[[3 Maccabees]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Bible

The book of the 3 Maccabees is found in most Orthodox Bibles.

However, the book actually has nothing to do with the Maccabees. It does not have anything to do with their revolt against the Seleucid Empire, either (as described in 1 Maccabees and 2 Maccabees).  Instead, it tells the story of persecution of the Jews under Ptolemy IV Philopator (222-205 BC). The name of the book seems to come from the similarities between this book and the stories of the martyrdom of Eleazar and the Maccabeean youths in 2 Maccabees. The High Priest Shimon is also mentioned. 

[[List of counties in Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, Lists of counties of the United States, Florida-related lists

There are 67 counties in Florida.

[[Persecution]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology, Violence

Persecution is the mistreatment (bad treatment) of an individual or group by another group. People can be persecuted for any reasons; it is usually because of their religion, ethnicity, politics, sexuality, gender or gender identity.

Religious persecution is persecution of people that are part of a religion, or who are not part of a different religion. The most important organization to persecute people was the Christian Church.201 For about three hundred years there was persecution of Christianity in the Roman Empire. During the next three hundred years, the Christian Church started to have a great effect by becoming the most important persecuting organization in human history.201 Persecution by Christians began in the 4th century Anno Domini, and the Christian Church was the most important persecuting organization for 1,500 years.201 The Christian Church was very active in the persecution of Christians – especially Christians the Church said were heretics – and in the persecution of Jews.201 In classical antiquity, the Roman Republic started to control the religion of Bacchus in 186 BC. Although the Roman Senate did not make the religion illegal, it stopped some parts of the cult.234 The Roman Empire's persecution of Christians, and then its persecution of non-Christians were both motivated by the religions of the persecutors (paganism and Christianity).203

[[Lincoln Park Zoo]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 establishments in the United States, Zoos in Illinois, Buildings and structures in Chicago, Illinois, 1860s establishments in Illinois

Lincoln Park Zoo is a free zoo. It is in Lincoln Park neighborhood in Chicago, Illinois. The zoo was founded in 1868. This was when the Lincoln Park Commissioners were given a gift of  2 pair of swans. In 1874, the swans were joined by a bear cub. This was the first animal bought for the zoo. The bear became quite good at escaping from its home. It could often be found wandering around Lincoln Park at night. The first bison ever born in captivity was born in Lincoln Park. Marlin Perkins, who later gained fame as the host of the television program Wild Kingdom, was director of the zoo from 1944 until 1962. Now, Lincoln Park Zoo is home to a wide variety of animals. The zoo includes polar bears, penguins, gorillas, reptiles, monkeys, and other species totalling nearly 1,250 animals. Also located in Lincoln Park Zoo is a burr oak tree which dates to 1830, three years before the city was founded. Lincoln Park Zoo is one of four zoos in the Chicago area, the others being the large Brookfield Zoo, and the minor Phillips Park Zoo, and Cosley Zoo. Lincoln Park Zoo is the only one within the Chicago city limits.

Two sections of Lincoln Park Zoo have been set aside for children. The first is the Pritzker Family Children's Zoo. The Children's Zoo contains an indoor structure for children to play in. People used to be able to pet animals at the Children's Zoo, but in recent years, due to health concerns, Lincoln Park Zoo has stopped this at the Children's Zoo. Also, baby animals who are rejected by their parents are no longer kept in the Children's Zoo because the zoo has found that it is harder to reintroduce them into their habitats once they grow up if they are kept away from their own species. The second area of the zoo for children in the Farm-in-the-Zoo, presented by John Deere. This small farm contains pigs, cows, horses and other animals which can be found on farms. Children can feed and pet the animals. In addition, the cows are milked in public for children to see. Regenstein Center for African Apes is home to Keo, the oldest male chimpanzee in a North American zoo.

Near the southern end of Lincoln Park Zoo, one can rent a paddle boat for a spin around the Lincoln Park Lagoon. The Lagoon is surrounded by trees and offers a relaxing time (and, of course, paddling exercise). Kayakers and canoers also take to the lagoon and one can often see scullers as well.

[[List of zoos]]

CATEGORIES: Science-related lists, Zoos, Geography-related lists

The following is a partial list of zoological gardens (zoos):

[[Modern defence]]

CATEGORIES: Chess openings

The Modern defence is a chess opening. It is almost the only defence which can be played against any opening move; and it may be played as an opening move itself. It consists in the immediate fianchetto of the king's bishop (KB). The first moves might be:

The opening is hypermodern. Black does not occupy the centre, he counter-attacks the centre built up by his opponent. He will probably play ...d6 next, then develop his K-side, then perhaps counter-attack the white centre with ...c5. The system is extremely flexible, and there are many transpositions. There are players, including a few grandmasters, who play almost nothing but the Modern with white and black. 

[[Bodybuilding]]

CATEGORIES: Bodybuilding

Bodybuilding is an activity where people develop their muscles. It is a form of human body change which uses intensive muscle hypertrophy.

An individual who engages in this activity is referred to as a bodybuilder. In competitive bodybuilding, bodybuilders display their physiques to a panel of judges, who assign points based on their appearance.

The muscles are revealed through a process known as the "cutting phase" - a combination of fat loss, oils, and tanning which, combined with the lighting, make the definition of the muscle group more distinct. 

[[Kohei Yamamichi]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Kohei Yamamichi (born 11 May 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tatsuomi Koishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Tatsuomi Koishi (born 22 August 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Gary Teale]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Scottish footballers

Gary Teale (born 21 July 1978) is a Scottish football player. He plays for Derby County and Scotland national team.

[[Josip Skoko]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from South Australia

Josip Skoko (born 10 December 1975) is an Australian football player. He plays for Hajduk Split.

[[Takuji Miyoshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Takuji Miyoshi (born 20 August 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Haruhiko Sato]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Haruhiko Sato (born 27 June 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Rikiya Kawamae]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagawa Prefecture

Rikiya Kawamae (born 20 August 1971) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Bunichiro Abe]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Bunichiro Abe is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Gabriel Paletta]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Gabriel Paletta (born 15 February 1986) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Boca Juniors.

[[Omi Sato]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture

Omi Sato (born 22 December 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Daisuke Yano]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Daisuke Yano  is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football or soccer player.

[[Jermaine Pennant]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, People from Nottingham, Sportspeople from Nottinghamshire, Premier League players

Jermaine Pennant (born 15 January 1983) is an English footballer. He plays for Real Zaragoza.

[[Yuki Takabayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yuki Takabayashi (born 22 May 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takumi Motohashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Takumi Motohashi (born 3 August 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi.

[[Titus Bramble]]

CATEGORIES: Black British sportspeople, English footballers, People from Ipswich, Sportspeople from Suffolk, 1981 births, Living people, Premier League players

Titus Malachi Bramble (born 31 July 1981) is an English footballer.

He is at present without a club, having left Sunderland at the end of the 2012–2013 Premier League season. He played as a centre-back.

His brother Tesfaye Bramble used to be a footballer.

[[Mark González]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Chilean footballers, People from Durban

Mark González (born 10 June 1984) is a Chilean football player. He plays for CSKA Moscow and Chile national team.

[[Takashi Furukawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Takashi Furukawa (born 28 October 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kenta Shimaoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Kenta Shimaoka (born 26 July 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jiro Yabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Nara Prefecture

Jiro Yabe (born 26 May 1978) is a Japanese football player.

[[Kenji Takagi]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto Prefecture

Kenji Takagi (born 13 May 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ice-nine]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction technology

Ice-nine is a fictional material. It was invented by author Kurt Vonnegut in his novel, Cat's Cradle. Ice-nine was a special type of ice that would freeze at higher temperatures than normal ice. When dropped into other bodies of water, it froze that, too, which resulted in all bodies of water on earth being frozen by Ice-nine.

[[Firlus]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Firlus is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Papowo Biskupie]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Papowo Biskupie is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Folgowo]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Folgowo is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Dubielno]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Dubielno is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Falęcin, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Falęcin is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Jeleniec]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Jeleniec is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Kucborek]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Kucborek is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Niemczyk]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Niemczyk is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Staw]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Staw is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Storlus]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Storlus is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Wrocławki]]

CATEGORIES: Wrocławki, Villages in Poland

Wrocławki is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Zegartowice]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Zegartowice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[Żygląd]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Żygląd is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.

[[1 Esdras]]

CATEGORIES: Religious texts

1 Esdras (Greek Έσδράς Αˊ), Greek Ezra, is an ancient Greek version of the Biblical book of Ezra in use among ancient Jews, the early church, and many modern Christians with varying degrees of canonicity and a high historical usefulness.

[[British Railways Mark 2]]

British Rail's second design of carriages was called Mark 2. The Mark 2 has more strength than a Mark 1 in the event of an accident.

[[Potential National Hockey League expansion]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

The National Hockey League (NHL) has gone through many rounds of expansion and other organizational changes during its nearly 100-year history to reach its current number of thirty teams: twenty-three in the United States, and seven in Canada. On June 22, 2016 the NHL officially approved expansion to Las Vegas starting in the 2017–18 season. The new Las Vegas team was unveiled as the Vegas Golden Knights on November 22 of that year.

[[4 Maccabees]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Bible

The Book of 4 Maccabees is praises religious reason over passion. It was written in Greek in the first or second century AD. It is not in the Bible for most churches, but is an added section of the Greek Bible. It is found in the canon of the Georgian Bible. 

[[Esdras]]

CATEGORIES: Religious texts

Esdras (Greek Έσδράς) is a Greco-Latin variation of the name of the scribe Ezra. It is found in the titles of several books, associated with the scribe, that are in or related to the Bible.

[[NHL Conference Finals]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League

The National Hockey League (NHL) Conference Finals are the Eastern Conference and Western Conference Championship series of the NHL. The Conference Finals are best-of-seven series. The two series are played in late May each year after the first and second rounds of the playoffs and before the Finals. The final two teams in the Eastern conference and Western Conference face off. The series are the conference equivalents of the Stanley Cup Finals.

[[Jewish Publication Society of America Version]]

CATEGORIES: Bible versions, Judaism in the United States, 1917, 1910s books

The Jewish Publication Society of America Version (JPS 1917) of the Tanakh (the Hebrew Bible) was the first Bible translation published by the Jewish Publication Society of America and the first translation of the Tanakh into English by a group of Jews (though there had been earlier solo tries, such as that of Isaac Leeser). The full publication title is The Holy Scriptures According to the Masoretic Text: A New Translation with the Aid of Previous Versions and with Constant Consultation of Jewish Authorities.

[[Prayer of Manasseh]]

CATEGORIES: Religious texts

The Prayer of Manasseh is a short work of 15 verses of the penitential prayer of the Judean king Manasseh.  Manasseh is recorded in the Bible as one of the most idolatrous (2 Kings 21:1-18); however, after having been taken captive by the Assyrians, he prays for mercy (2 Chronicles 33:10-17) and turns from his ways of worshiping idols.

[[Patricio Rey y sus Redonditos de Ricota]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine rock bands, Musical groups established in 1976, 1976 establishments in South America, 20th-century establishments in Argentina

Patricio Rey y Sus Redonditos de Ricota were a rock band from Argentina. This band originated in La Plata in 1976. Direct descendant of The Brotherhood of the Solar Flower, originally had no name or fixed members, but about 15 musicians took turns on the instruments. The three pillars are: Indio Solari (vocals), Beilinson Skay (guitar) and Carmen Castro 'The Black Poly "(manager and alma mater) who could add Richard Cohen," Rocambole ", something like the director artistic group. Skay Diplodocum had integrated along with his brother William Beilinson, Topo D'Aloisio, Isa Portugheis and Bernardo Rubaja.

[[Development of the New Testament canon]]

CATEGORIES: New Testament

The Christian Biblical canon is the set of books in the Bible. Although the Early Church mostly used the Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible, the Septuagint or the Targums among Aramaic speakers, the Apostles did not otherwise leave a defined set of new scriptures. However Saint Peter in his letters does refer to Paul's writings, saying: 'the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation; even as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written unto you; as also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things; in which are some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable wrest, as they do the other scriptures, unto their own destruction. (2 Peter 3:15-16) The New Testament as it is today was defined later by the church at the Synod of Hippo in 393 AD.

[[Peshitta]]

CATEGORIES: Bible versions

The Peshitta (Classical Syriac ܦܹܫܝܼܛܵܐ for "simple, common, straight, vulgate") is the standard version of the Syriac Bible.

The Old Testament of the Peshitta was translated from the Hebrew, probably in the 2nd century. The New Testament of the Peshitta, which originally excluded certain disputed books (2 Peter, 2 John, 3 John, Jude, Revelation), had become the standard by the early 5th century.

[[Rockumentary]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music, Documentary movies

A rockumentary is a documentary about rock music or its musicians. The word rockumentary is a combination (a portmanteau word) of the words "rock" and "documentary." Producer Bill Drake called the 1969 History of Rock & Roll radio broadcast a rockumentary.

[[The Band]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s music groups, 1970s music groups, 1980s music groups, 1990s music groups, Canadian rock bands, Grammy Award winners, Warner Bros. Records artists, Musical groups established in 1964, 1964 establishments in Canada, Musical groups disestablished in the 1970s, 1976 disestablishments in North America, Musical groups established in 1983, 1983 establishments in North America, Musical groups disestablished in 1999, 1999 disestablishments, 1990s disestablishments in Canada

The Band was a rock music band from 1964 to 1976 and again from 1983 to 1999. The original group was made up of four Canadians (Robbie Robertson, Richard Manuel, Garth Hudson, and Rick Danko) and one American, (Levon Helm).

This band was the subject of the 1978 movie The Last Waltz.

[[One Foot in Heaven]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 movies, Biographical movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Irving Rapper

One Foot in Heaven is a 1941 biographical movie that was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture and was produced and directed by Irving Rapper. The movie was produced by Warner Bros. Pictures, distributed to theaters by RKO Radio Pictures and is based on the biography.

[[Adam Lambert]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Adam Lambert, American Idol contestants, Gay Jews, Jewish American LGBT people, Jewish American musicians, LGBT people from California, LGBT people from Indiana, LGBT singers, LGBT songwriters, Writers from Indianapolis, Indiana, Writers from San Diego, California, Singers from San Diego, California, Singers from Indianapolis, Indiana, Singer-songwriters from California

Adam Lambert (born January 29, 1982 in Indianapolis, Indiana) is an American pop rock singer-songwriter. He moved to San Diego when he was a baby. He is openly gay. He won the Young Hollywood Award for Artist of the Year in 2009. Lambert was runner-up on the eighth season of American Idol and is the first openly gay mainstream pop artist to launch a career on a major label in America. He is most famous for the album For Your Entertainment and the singles "Whataya Want from Me", "No Boundaries", and "If I Had U".

He worked with British band Queen since 2011. He is the lead singer for Queen + Adam Lambert.

[[Cristobal Huet]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, American Hockey League players, Chicago Blackhawks players, French ice hockey players, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Montreal Canadiens players, Washington Capitals players, Stanley Cup champions, Ice hockey goaltenders

Cristobal Huet (born January 13, 1973 in Saint-Martin-d'Hères, France) is a professional French ice hockey goaltender currently playing for the Fribourg-Gottéron of the Swiss National League A, on loan from the Chicago Blackhawks of the NHL. He is the first netminder and second player overall from France to play in the NHL.

In 2010 He won a Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks making him the first French-born NHL player to win a Stanley Cup although he was replaced from his starting goalie position by Antti Niemi.

[[The Hockey News]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of Canada, Ice hockey

The Hockey News, commonly shortened to THN, is a North American ice hockey magazine published by Transcontinental. The Hockey News was created in 1947 by Ken McKenzie and Bill Côté, and has since been the most recognized hockey publication in North America. Over 225,000 people read each issue of the magazine, and the website has another two million people reading it.

[[Majed Moqed]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2001 deaths, Al-Qaeda people, Saudi Arabian people, September 11 attacks

Majed Moqed (June 18, 1977 - September 11, 2001) was a hijacker of the American Airlines Flight 77 in the September 11 attacks.

[[Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards

The Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy is awarded every year to the National Hockey League player who best exemplifies the qualities of perseverance, sportsmanship, and dedication to ice hockey. The winner is selected by a vote of the Professional Hockey Writers' Association after each team selects one player on their team to be voted on. It is often awarded to a player who has come back from career- or even life-threatening illness or injury. A player can receive this trophy only once in his career.

[[Yoshinori Matsuda]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Yoshinori Matsuda (born 14 August 1974) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Daisuke Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Daisuke Watanabe (born 26 July 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hiroshi Moriyasu]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Hiroshi Moriyasu (born 29 January 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koji Fujikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokushima Prefecture

Koji Fujikawa is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Shinsuke Shimabukuro]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Shinsuke Shimabukuro (born 13 January 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Masaharu Kawahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers, People from Osaka

Masaharu Kawahara (born 30 May 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kamatamare Sanuki.

[[The Advocate (Australia)]]

CATEGORIES: Tasmania, Newspapers published in Australia

The Advocate is a newspaper that is printed in northwest Tasmania. Tasmania is a state of Australia. It is read by people in northwest Tasmanian towns such as Burnie, Ulverstone, Devonport, Penguin, Wynyard, Latrobe and Smithton. Since 2008 it is owned by Fairfax Media.

[[Taro Sugahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture

Taro Sugahara (born 14 June 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Blaublitz Akita.

[[Koki Habata]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Wakayama Prefecture

Koki Habata (born 22 July 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryohei Nishiwaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Gifu Prefecture

Ryohei Nishiwaki (born 1 August 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Choi Chung-min]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 1983 deaths, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers, People from Pyongyang

Choi Chung-Min (born 30 August 1930 - died 1983) is a former South Korean football player. He has played for Korea Republic national team.

[[Gary Stevens]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, 1986 FIFA World Cup players, 1990 FIFA World Cup players, English footballers, Sportspeople from Cumbria, Sportspeople from Lancashire

Gary Stevens (born 27 March 1963) is an English former football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Finidi George]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Nigerian footballers

Finidi George (born 15 April 1971) is a former Nigerian football player. He has played for Nigeria national team.

[[Moabe Platini Dias Ramos]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Moabe Platini Dias Ramos (born 22 June 1987) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Mitsutoshi Watada]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Mitsutoshi Watada (born 26 March 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Motoki Kawasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture

Motoki Kawasaki (born 2 February 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for V-Varen Nagasaki.

[[Naohiro Tamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokushima Prefecture

Naohiro Tamura is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Jefferson Vieira da Cruz]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Jefferson Vieira da Cruz (born 3 July 1981) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Paul Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Leicestershire

Paul Anderson (born 23 July 1988) is an English footballer. He plays for Nottingham Forest.

[[Fábio Aurélio]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fábio Aurélio (born 24 September 1979) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Liverpool.

[[Masanao Sasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Honda FC players, Yokohama Flügels players, JEF United Chiba players, Kashiwa Reysol players

Masanao Sasaki is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Leyden jar]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

The Leyden jar (or Leiden jar) is a device for storing static electricity. It is large glass bottle, usually lined on both the inside and the outside with some type of metal foil. Some of the early ones had water inside. They allow the experimenter to collect a large amount of charge.

They are the first form of electrical storage. These methods are known today as 'condensers' or 'capacitors'.  

The first electrical storage jar was created by Dean Edwald von Kleist on 11 October 1745. He was  the dean of the cathedral of Cammin in Pomerania, on the north coast of Germany (at that time a separate country).  He was interested to find whether static electricity could be stored in a bottle, because he knew that electricity could not pass through glass. He thought he might be able to capture and hold a small amount. He only had a small experimental friction generator.

He underestimated how much electricity a small medicine bottle could hold by thousands of times.  A peculiarity of electricity allows it to continue flowing into the bottle provided the outside of the bottle has an electrically conductive surface connected to the earth.  This neutralises the pressure from the charge trying to flow back out.

In von Kleist's case, this electrically conductive surface was just his hand, but it was enough to allow a very substantial charge to enter and remain in the jar through a nail he had driven through the cork.

When he accidentally touched the nail, he received such a shock that it threw him across the room. He had made a connection between the inside charge and the accumulated outside charge, and since these were opposite signs (one positive and the other negative) all the accumulated charge flowed through his body.

He didn't understand why this jar stored so efficiently, but he send a scrambled description to some associates in Berlin, and one copy was sent on to von Klein's old university associate Andreas Cunaeus where it ended up in the hands of Pieter van Musschenbroek, who was the University of Leyden's main physics professor. He worked out that the storage capacity was vastly improved only if the flask was held in the hand, and his letter to scientist in France gave the jar the name "Leyden jar".

For many years the Leyden jar was the main tool of electrical storage, and it remained so until the invention of a chemical battery and electrical generators of the type we use today.

[[Seo Jung-won]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, South Korean footballers, South Korean football managers

Seo Jung-Won (born 17 December 1970) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korea Republic national team.

[[Hakan Şükür]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Turkish footballers

Hakan Şükür (born 1 September 1971) is a former Turkish football player. He has played for Turkey national team.

He has been member of parliament at Republic of Turkey

[[Maciej Żurawski]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, People from Poznań, Polish footballers

Maciej Stanisław Żurawski (born 12 September 1976) is a Polish football player. He has played for Poland national team.

[[Agustín Ross Park]]

CATEGORIES: Pichilemu, Buildings and structures in Chile

Agustín Ross Park is a park in Agustín Ross Avenue, in front of the old Ross Casino, in Pichilemu. It is a National Monument of Chile.

The original park boasts 100-year-old native Chilean palms (Phoenix canariensis) and many green spaces, and its recent restoration has made it into an attractive walking destination. The majority of the grand houses in the park are in use as private homes.

Both the park and the former casino were named National Monuments on February 25, 1988.

The Park was severely damaged after the 2010 Pichilemu earthquake, destroying all the balaustrades around the park.

[[Therapy dog]]

CATEGORIES: Working dogs, Service animals

Therapy dogs are dogs used to comfort people who are ill or disabled. They sometimes visit people who are in hospitals or nursing homes.

[[VMU]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Sega

The Sega Dreamcast VMU is a memory card made just for the Sega Dreamcast machine that plays video games. It is put in slot one or two on the Sega Dreamcast controller. It can save games, backgrounds and other extra features for the Sega Dreamcast. Also, it can save minigames that can be played on the remote itself running on a battery using D-pad, A, B, start, and select buttons. The games are shown on a small screen on the controller. (This screen usually shows pictures and game statistics when playing on the Dreamcast).

[[Suffer (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 albums, Bad Religion albums, Punk albums

Suffer is the third album by American punk rock band Bad Religion. It was released on the Californian independent record label Epitaph Records on September 8, 1988. It was the first album that was both made and sold by the label.

After the release of the EP Back to the Known (1985), the band set some time apart to rest. Later, the original members got back together and went to work on its first full-length studio album in five years.

Similar to their next album No Control (1989), many people consider Suffer to be one of the best punk albums of the 1980s. The album became Epitaph's best-selling album for a number of years, until the release of The Offspring's popular Smash album in 1994. A large number of third-wave punk bands cite this album as a big influence on their work. NOFX's Fat Mike has called it "the record that changed everything."

[[No Control]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 albums, Bad Religion albums, Punk albums

No Control is the fourth album by American punk rock band Bad Religion, released on the Californian independent record label Epitaph Records on November 2, 1989. It was the follow-up to the band's highly acclaimed reunion album Suffer.

Like the previous Bad Religion album, many people consider No Control to be one of the best punk albums of the 1980s, while some consider it to be the band's finest effort, featuring "Change of Ideas", "No Control", "I Want to Conquer the World", "Big Bang" and "You", all of which are staples of their live show to this day.

Stylistically, No Control is a faster album than its predecessor, owing more to hardcore punk.

[[Greg Graffin]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, musicians from Wisconsin, People from Racine, Wisconsin, Bad Religion, Cornell University alumni, American paleontologists, American zoologists, Scientists from Wisconsin

Gregory Walter Graffin, Ph.D. (born November 6, 1964 at Racine, Wisconsin), better known to the public as Greg Graffin, is the vocalist and a songwriter of Bad Religion, which he co-founded in 1980 and is the band's only constant member, even though it now features two of their original members, guitarist Brett Gurewitz (who left and rejoined the band twice) and bassist Jay Bentley (who left in 1982, but returned in 1986). Graffin obtained his Ph.D. at Cornell University and has lectured courses in life sciences and paleontology at the University of California, Los Angeles. He's also a solo artist, having released American Lesion in 1997 and Cold as the Clay in 2006.

[[Jay Bentley]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American guitarists, Punk musicians, Bassists, Bad Religion, Musicians from Wichita, Kansas

Jay Dee Bentley (born June 6, 1964 in Wichita, Kansas) is the bassist and co-founding member of the punk rock band Bad Religion. He has played with the band through its whole existence with a small break between 1982 and 1986. He continues to perform and record with Bad Religion today.

[[Stranger Than Fiction]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 albums, Bad Religion albums, Punk albums

Stranger Than Fiction is the eighth album by American punk rock band Bad Religion, released in 1994. This was their first album released on the major label Atlantic Records (however Atlantic did re-release their previous album, Recipe for Hate) and also its last release with guitarist Brett Gurewitz, who left just prior to the 1994-1995 world tour, but returned to the band seven years later. On tour, Gurewitz was replaced by Brian Baker, who would stay with the band permanently.

Because of sales continuing sixteen years after its release, many consider Stranger Than Fiction to be one of Bad Religion's most successful albums, featuring two of their famous hits, "Infected" and the re-recorded version of "21st Century (Digital Boy)", which both earned airplay on MTV and radio stations, such as KROQ. The latter single was originally recorded in 1990 on their fifth album Against the Grain. The album included two more, "Stranger Than Fiction" and "Incomplete", which failed to make any national chart.

As of 2010, Stranger Than Fiction remains the only Bad Religion record to get gold status in the United States.

[[Woodstock (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American documentary movies, English-language movies, 1970 movies, United States National Film Registry movies

Woodstock is a 1970 American documentary movie.   This movie is about the Woodstock music festival.  The Woodstock festival took place in August 1969 at Bethel, New York, USA.  Michael Wadleigh directed this movie. Martin Scorsese and Thelma Schoonmaker edited this movie.  Schoonmaker was nominated for an Academy Award for Film Editing.  This movie received the Academy Award for Documentary Feature, and a nomination for Best Sound. The movie was also shown at the 1970 Cannes Film Festival. The Official Director's Cut is 225 minutes long and was released in 1994.

[[Battle of the Alamo]]

CATEGORIES: 1836, 1830s in Texas, Battles, History of San Antonio, Texas, 19th century in Mexico, March events

The Battle of the Alamo took place in 1836 at the Alamo in what is now San Antonio, Texas, United States. Texas then belonged to Mexico, but many people wanted to have their own new country. Over 100 of them, including former Representative Davy Crockett, were in the Alamo. Under the Spanish Empire, it had been a mission like a church. A Mexican army of several thousand arrived, led by General Antonio López de Santa Anna. For 13 days, the Mexican army surrounded the Alamo and attacked it on March 6, 1836.  All 187 of the men from Texas were killed. 

General Sam Houston felt that holding San Antonio was unnecessary and impossible. He sent Jim Bowie with orders to destroy the Alamo and to return with all of the men and the artillery that were stationed there.  Bowie went against his orders and failed to defend the city, which he had thought to be his duty.

[[Adrian Edmondson]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Actors from Bradford, British stand-up comedians, Comedians from Yorkshire, English movie actors, English movie directors, English screenwriters, English television actors, English television directors, English television writers, Writers from Yorkshire

Adrian Charles "Ade" Edmondson (24 January 1957) is in English actor and comedian. He is best known for his roles as Vyvyan Basterd in TV series The Young Ones and Eddie Hitler in Bottom.

Since 2006 Edmondson has worked more on music instead of acting.  He made the band The Bad Shepherds and performs and writes for the Bonzo Dog Doo Dah Band.

Edmonson was born in Bradford, West Riding of Yorkshire. He is married to comedienne Jennifer Saunders. They have three daughters.

[[Eugen Sandow]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 births, 1925 deaths, German sportspeople, People from former German territories, People from Kaliningrad, People from Prussia

Eugen(e) Sandow (April 2, 1867 in Köningsberg – October 14, 1925 in London), born Friedrich Wilhelm Müller, was a Prussian who pioneered bodybuilding in 19th century and was often referred to as the "Father of Modern Bodybuilding".

[[Naoki Naruo]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture

Naoki Naruo (born 5 October 1974) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koichiro Katafuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Koichiro Katafuchi (born 29 April 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takashi Uemura]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Takashi Uemura (born 2 December 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Satoshi Miyagawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Satoshi Miyagawa (born 24 March 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takashi Okuhara]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Takashi Okuhara is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kotaro Nakao]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Kotaro Nakao (born 8 June 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yoshiro Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Nara Prefecture

Yoshiro Nakamura (born 17 October 1979) is a Japanese football player.

[[Kenta Kano]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Kenta Kano (born 2 May 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos.

[[Miguel Monteiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Sportspeople from Lisbon

Miguel Monteiro (born 4 January 1980) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Valencia and Portugal national team.

[[Geremi Njitap]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Cameroonian footballers

Geremi Njitap (born 20 December 1978) is a Cameroonian football player. He plays for Ankaragücü and Cameroon national team.

[[Tetsuharu Yamaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Tetsuharu Yamaguchi (born 8 September 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Marcelo Rosada Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Porto Alegre

Marcelo Rosada Silva (born 29 January 1976) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Yasuhide Ihara]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Yasuhide Ihara (born 8 March 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kosei Kitauchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Kōchi Prefecture

Kosei Kitauchi (born 25 April 1974) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Washington Luiz Pereira dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Washington Luiz Pereira dos Santos (born 10 April 1975) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Scatman John]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 1999 deaths, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from lung cancer, Singers from Los Angeles, California

John Paul Larkin (known as Scatman John) (born March 6 1942 in El Monte, California – died December 3, 1999 in Los Angeles, California) was an American jazz musician and singer. His most popular song is "Scatman (Ski Ba Bop Ba Dop Bop)". Scatman John was named "Best New Artist" in the Echo Awards in both Japan and Germany. He had a stammer and won an American Speech-Language-Hearing Association's Annie Glenn Award for outstanding service to the stuttering community.

Scatman John died on December 3, 1999 in Los Angeles, California from lung cancer.

[[Kiyohiro Hirabayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Kiyohiro Hirabayashi (born 4 June 1984) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Akira Komatsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Footballers from Akita Prefecture

Akira Komatsu (born 3 April 1962) is a former Japanese football player.

[[FC Gifu]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, Gifu Prefecture

FC Gifu is a Japanese professional football club in Gifu Prefecture.

[[Kataller Toyama]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, Toyama Prefecture

Kataller Toyama is a Japanese professional football club in Toyama.

[[Roasso Kumamoto]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, Kumamoto Prefecture

Roasso Kumamoto is a Japanese professional football club in Kumamoto on the island of Kyushu.

[[Tochigi SC]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, Tochigi Prefecture

Tochigi SC is a Japanese professional football club in Utsunomiya.

[[Fagiano Okayama]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, Okayama Prefecture

Fagiano Okayama is a Japanese professional football club in Okayama.

[[Giravanz Kitakyushu]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese football clubs, Fukuoka Prefecture

Giravanz Kitakyushu is a Japanese professional football club in Yahatanishi ward of Kitakyūshū on the island of Kyushu.

[[Irvine, California]]

CATEGORIES: Irvine, California, 1971 establishments in California

Irvine (ˈɜrvaɪn) is a city in Orange County, California, United States. It is a planned city, mostly made by the Irvine Company since the 1960s. The city was formally incorporated on December 28, 1971. The 69.7 square mile (180.5 km2) April 2010 city has a population of about 212,793 (as of January 1, 2009).  It has united in the past a green belt or greenbelt is a policy and land use designation used in land use planning to retain areas of largely undeveloped area to the north, and has also united the former El Toro Marine Corps Air Station, most of which is planned to be converted into the Orange County Great Park.

The University of California, the highest level of the state's public higher education system, has a campus in Irvine.

Irvine is part of the Greater Los Angeles Area.

[[Fault (geology)]]

CATEGORIES: Plate tectonics

[[Bible translations]]

CATEGORIES: Bible

The Bible has been translated into many languages. It was originally written in the languages of Aramaic and Hebrew (Old Testament) and Greek (New Testament).

The Latin Vulgate was common in Western Christianity through the Middle Ages. Since then, the Bible has been translated into many more languages. Translations of the Bible into English have a rich and varied history of more than a millennium. Extensive translations into Middle English began in the 14th century with the work of John Wycliffe and his associates. It was fiercely opposed by the Roman Catholic Church. The authorized King James Version later became the standard translation into English.

[[Darts]]

CATEGORIES: Darts

Darts is a type of throwing game where darts are thrown towards a circular target held on a wall. The circular target is called the dartboard. Darts is most liked in the United Kingdom (which was the first country to call darts a sport), mainly in England, and is a pub game. Darts was first played around the 1870s. Until 1930s all dart boards were made out of wood that had to be soaked in water day before.

[[Aerobics]]

CATEGORIES: Fitness, Healthy lifestyle

Aerobics or rhythmic fitness is a physical exercise performed under a rhythmic music. It includes running, jumping, stretching and strength training routines. It may be practiced in a group setting led by an instructor, although it can be done solo and without musical accompaniment. 

Aerobics classes may allow participants to select their level of participation according to their fitness level. Many gyms offer a wide variety of aerobic classes for participants to take. Each class is designed for a certain level of experience and taught by a certified instructor with a specialty area related to their particular class.

Jogging and cycling similarly promote aerobic fitness, but they are not usually done in classes led by instructors or with music, hence are not "aerobics". 

[[California Polytechnic State University]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in California, Big Sky Conference, Big West Conference, California State University

The California Polytechnic State University is a public university. It is in the city of San Luis Obispo, California, United States. The university is one of 23 campuses affiliated with the California State University system. California Polytechnic State University offers 70 degree programs in many disciplines like engineering, science, architecture, and many others. The university covers 9,678 acres and it is near the metropolitan city of Los Angeles.

California Polytechnic State University was founded in 1901

California Polytechnic State University student-athletes play sports against other universities using the name Cal Poly Mustangs. The university is a member of the NCAA Division I. Most of the school's teams play in the Big West Conference; the football team plays in the Big Sky Conference. The official colors of the university and its athletic teams are green and gold.

[[Pennywise]]

CATEGORIES: American punk bands, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups

Pennywise is an American melodic hardcore band. They formed in Hermosa Beach, California in 1988. The band is named after the monster from It, Stephen King's novel of the same title. Pennywise's most successful line-up, which remained together for 13 years (from 1996 to 2009), consisted of Jim Lindberg (vocals), Fletcher Dragge (guitars), Randy Bradbury (bass) and Byron McMackin (drums). They kept their original line-up until original bassist Jason Thirsk killed himself in 1996, because he had issues with his alcoholism. After that Bradbury replaced him. In August 2009, Lindberg left Pennywise and was replaced by Ignite singer Zoli Téglás.

Pennywise has released nine studio albums. After releasing two EPs in 1989, the band signed to Epitaph Records (a label owned by Bad Religion's Brett Gurewitz) in 1990. Their two first albums were not very successful. Pennywise's next album, About Time, became a mainstream success. It was the band's first album to appear on the top 100 on the Billboard music chart and chart outside the United States. By this time, a number of punk bands, such as Bad Religion, Green Day, The Offspring, Rancid and NOFX, had hit the mainstream, but Pennywise did not want to be signed to a major label. When Bradbury joined in 1996 following Thrisk's death, Pennywise made even more popular albums and eventually became celebrities.

Their best known song is Bro Hymn form their self-titled debut album. After Thirsk's death, the band made a new version of this song as a tribute to Jason Thirsk which appeared on Full Circle.

[[About Time]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums

About Time is the third studio album by Pennywise, released on June 13, 1995.

While the album was not a commercial success, it is considered by some critics to be one of Pennywise's best releases, and it includes their concert staples, "Peaceful Day", "Perfect People", "Every Single Day", and "Same Old Story". About Time was also the first Pennywise album to chart in Billboard. Most of the album follows the theme of problems with time: fear of it passing, controlling it and accepting it.

About Time was also the last Pennywise album to feature bass player Jason Thirsk, who committed suicide on July 29, 1996. After debating whether to break up, or to continue on with a new bass player, Pennywise decided to hire a new bassist, Randy Bradbury, who would stay with the band permanently.

[[Come Out and Play]]

CATEGORIES: The Offspring songs, 1994 songs

"Come Out and Play" (or "Come Out and Play (Keep 'Em Separated)") is a song by the Californian punk rock group The Offspring. It was released as the first single from the album Smash (1994). It was also the first major single to be released by the band. It is considered to be their breakthrough song, as it received widespread radio play, and reached number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart.

[[Compiled language]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

A compiled programming language is a programming language which is compiled.  When a program is compiled, the compiler will change it from a programming language that a person can read, to a set of instructions that a computer can follow. These instructions (written in machine code) are then stored as an executable in a file.  This file can be run quickly by the computer.

The other kind of language is an interpreted language.  A program, or even single lines, will be interpreted one line at a time by the computer.  This is slower for a computer than following compiled instructions.  But it can be faster to write and test programs that are interpreted.

Scripting languages are often interpreted. Some languages can be either compiled or interpreted. Java, Lisp, Python and AutoIT are examples.

[[Self Esteem]]

CATEGORIES: The Offspring songs, 1994 songs

"Self Esteem" is a song by the Californian punk rock group The Offspring. It was released as the second single from the album Smash (1994). It was also the first major single to be released by the band. The song was a worldwide hit, reaching #1 in Latvia, Norway, and Sweden and was one of the most successful singles released by the band. However, according to frontman Dexter Holland, the song has not been very popular in Japan.

[[Gotta Get Away]]

CATEGORIES: The Offspring songs, 1994 songs

"Gotta Get Away" is a song by the Californian punk rock group The Offspring. It was released as the third and last single from the album Smash (1994). The song was a modest hit in several countries, while it peaked at #6 on Billboard's Modern Rock charts in the United States. "Gotta Get Away" was inspired by an early track, "Cogs", written while the band was still named Manic Subsidal. The lyrics refer to the pressure that lead singer Dexter Holland was under to finish the album on time.

[[Memory address]]

CATEGORIES: Computer memory

In computer science, a memory address identifies the place in the computer memory where a computer program or a hardware device can store data and later retrieve it.

[[Ignition (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums, The Offspring albums, Punk albums

Ignition is the second album by American punk rock band The Offspring, released in 1992. This was their first album released on Epitaph Records (a label owned by Bad Religion guitarist Brett Gurewitz).

Released during the breakthrough year for alternative rock and grunge, The Offspring achieved small success with Ignition in Southern California and gathered a small following. This success would grow with their next album Smash. "Kick Him When He's Down" was released as a promotional single in 1995 after the band had risen in popularity; it is one of the few singles that did not appear on the Greatest Hits album.

[[Ixnay on the Hombre]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums, The Offspring albums, Punk albums

Ixnay on the Hombre is the fourth album by American punk rock band The Offspring, released in 1997. This was their first album released on the major label Columbia Records (however, in Europe, it was released on Epitaph) and also its first collaboration with record producer Dave Jerden, who would produce the band's next album Americana (1998). Even though the album did not maintain the same popularity as Smash, Ixnay on the Hombre was well received by both critics and fans, selling more than 5.5 million copies worldwide, and being certified platinum by the RIAA.

[[Americana (The Offspring album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 albums, The Offspring albums

Americana is the fifth album by American punk rock band The Offspring, released in 1998. One of their most successful albums to date, it debuted at #6 on the US Billboard 200  and peaked at #2.  The album has sold more than 10 million copies worldwide.

[[Conspiracy of One]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums, The Offspring albums, Pop punk albums

Conspiracy of One is the sixth album by American punk rock band The Offspring, released in 2000. The album debuted at 9 on the US Billboard 200 with around 125,000 copies sold in its first week and has sold more than 1 million copies worldwide.June 2013 It is the follow-up to the commercially successful Americana.

The Offspring had come out in support of file sharing, claiming it does not hurt sales. This album was originally planned to be released directly on their website before retail, until their label threatened to sue.

Conspiracy of One is also the band's final studio album with the most successful line-up, as drummer Ron Welty left band in early 2003 to pursue his career with Steady Ground.

[[Splinter]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, The Offspring albums, Punk albums

Splinter is the seventh album by American punk rock band The Offspring, released in 2003. It was the first album the band released without drummer Ron Welty and even though many of their previous albums contain explicit langugage, it was the first to have a Parental Advisory.

While the album was not as successful as The Offspring's albums between Smash and Conspiracy of One, Splinter received gold certification two months after its release. The album received average reviews, but still sold reasonably well, even though a third U.S. single was never released. It debuted at 30 on the US Billboard 200 with around 87,000 copies sold in its first week, and has sold more than 1.8 million copies worldwide.

[[Rise and Fall, Rage and Grace]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, The Offspring albums, Pop punk albums

Rise and Fall, Rage and Grace is the eighth album by American punk rock band The Offspring, released in 2008. It was their first album of new material in nearly five years, following 2003's Splinter, and their first to be produced by Bob Rock. It had produced four singles: "Hammerhead", "You're Gonna Go Far, Kid", "Kristy, Are You Doing Okay?" and "Half-Truism".

Although drummer Atom Willard (who left in July 2007) was still a member of the band during the recording, session musician Josh Freese actually handled the drum tracks, like he did on Splinter. Due to contract issues with Geffen Records, Willard could not do recording on the album and later decided to leave the band and continue his duties in Angels & Airwaves full time while former Face to Face drummer Pete Parada joined the band just in time for the tour.

[[Jumping]]

CATEGORIES: Human skills, Fitness, Athletics

Jumping is a form of  movement in which an organism pushes itself up through the air and falls back down. Jumping is different from running, galloping and other ways of moving because the body is airborne for a longer period of time.

Some animals, such as the kangaroo, use jumping as their main form of traveling, while others, such as frogs, only use it to escape predators. Jumping is also an important feature of many different activities and sports, including the long jump, high jump, and show jumping.

[[Maia Chiburdanidze]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Chess grandmasters, People from Tbilisi

Maia Chiburdanidze (მაია ჩიბურდანიძე; born 17 January 1961) is a Georgian chess grandmaster, and the seventh Women's World Chess Champion. She is the only chess player in history who has won nine Chess Olympiads. Maia is one of the very few women who has won a top-class grandmaster tournament. Chiburdanidze's FIDE Elo rating in the January 2010 list is 2514, and she is still the 11th highest rated female player in the world.

Maia Chiburdanidze was born in Kutaisi, Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic, USSR and started playing chess around the age of eight. She became the USSR girls' champion in 1976 and a year later she won the Soviet women's title. In 1977 she was awarded the title of Woman Grandmaster.

[[Taiping Rebellion]]

CATEGORIES: Civil wars, History of China

The Taiping Rebellion was a civil war in China from 1850 to 1864. It was led by Hong Xiuquan. The Taiping Rebellion was against the ruling Qing Dynasty. About 20 million people died.cn Most of them were civilians.

Hong established the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom (太平天囯). When it was most powerful, it had about 30 million people joining in it. The rebels tried to change society. Troops were nicknamed the Long hair (長毛, cháng máo).

[[David Pizarro]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Chilean footballers, People from Valparaíso

David Pizarro (born 11 February 1979) is a Chilean football player. He plays for Roma.

[[Nilmar Honorato da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Nilmar Honorato da Silva (born 17 July 1984) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Villarreal and Brazil national team.

[[Danilo Gomes]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Danilo Gustavo Vergne Gomes (born 15 October 1981) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Nobuhiro Maeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagawa Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Nobuhiro Maeda (born 3 June 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Minoru Kushibiki]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Minoru Kushibiki (born 10 June 1967) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kota Ueda]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Kota Ueda (born 9 May 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Júbilo Iwata.

[[Keisuke Funatani]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Keisuke Funatani is a Japanese football player.

[[Shun Morishita]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Shun Morishita (born 11 May 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kyoto Sanga.

[[Steven Reid]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Irish footballers, Sportspeople from London

Steven Reid (born 10 March 1981) is an Irish football player. He plays for West Bromwich Albion.

[[Li Tie]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Chinese footballers

Li Tie (born 18 September 1977) is a Chinese football player. He has played for China PR national team.

[[Kota Mizunuma]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Kota Mizunuma (born 22 February 1990) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos.

[[Vujadin Boškov]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Serbian footballers, Serbian football managers, Eredivisie managers

Vujadin Boškov (16 May 1931 – 27 April 2014) was a former Serbian football player. He played for Yugoslavia national team.

Boškov died on 27 April 2014 in Novi Sad, aged 82.

[[Genki Nakayama]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Genki Nakayama (born 15 September 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shonan Bellmare.

[[Hiroshi Nakano]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture, Albirex Niigata players

Hiroshi Nakano  is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football or soccer player.

[[Edmar Bernardes dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Edmar Bernardes dos Santos (born 20 January 1960) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Kazumasa Kume]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Kazumasa Kume (born 6 July 1955) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takahiro Yodogawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Takahiro Yodogawa (born 4 March 1951) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Susan Polgar]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American chess players, Hungarian chess players, Hungarian Jews, Jewish American sportspeople, Sportspeople from Budapest, Chess grandmasters

Susan Polgar (born 19 April 1969 as Polgár Zsuzsanna and often known as Zsuzsa Polgár) is a Hungarian-American chess player.

At 15, she was the top-ranked woman player in the world. She was the Women's World Chess Champion from 1996 to 1999. In October 2005 Polgar had a FIDE rating of 2577, making her the second-ranked woman in the world at the time, after her sister Judit Polgár. She has been inactive and has not played in official competition since 2004.

Polgar is head of the Susan Polgar Institute for Chess Excellence at Texas Tech University, and a chess writer and promoter. She had been on the Executive of the United States Chess Federation, but was stripped of her membership after a complicated internal struggle.

Susan was born and brought up in Budapest, Hungary, and now lives in Lubbock, Texas. She recently moved from Forest Hills, Queens in New York City, where she ran the Polgar Chess Center and the Susan Polgar Foundation, which gives chess training to children, especially girls.

[[Christian Pander]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Christian Pander (born 28 August 1983) is a German football player. He plays for Schalke.

[[Dado Pršo]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Dado Pršo (born 5 November 1974) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for Croatia national team.

[[Mart Poom]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Estonian sportspeople, Association football goalkeepers, European footballers, People from Tallinn

Mart Poom (born 3 February 1972) is a former Estonian football player. He has played for Estonia national team.

[[Antonios Nikopolidis]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Greek footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Antonios Nikopolidis (born 14 January 1971) is a Greek football player. He has played for Greece national team.

[[Sean Waltman]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Sean Michael Waltman (born March 13, 1972) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently signed with WWE. He wrestled there under the ring names 1–2–3 Kid and X-Pac. These changed a lot from 1993–2002. He wrestled with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) under the ring name Syxx, and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) under the ring name Syxx-Pac and also under his real name. Waltman is the only wrestler in history to have held the TNA X Division Championship,  the WCW Cruiserweight Championship, and the WWE Light Heavyweight Championship. Waltman is a member of the group known in wrestling as The Kliq. This is made up of Waltman, Shawn Michaels, Triple H, Kevin Nash, and Scott Hall.

[[Raven (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1964 births, American professional wrestlers

Scott Anthony Levy (born September 8, 1964), better known by his ring name Raven, is an American wrestling producer, wrestling writer, and occasional author, actor and professional wrestler. He currently works for different independent promotions. During his career he has held multiple championships across the world.

He is a three-time World Champion.  He won the ECW World Heavyweight Championship twice and the NWA World Heavyweight Championship once. He also held the WCW United States Championship once. He is the record holder for most reigns as WWF/E Hardcore Champion with 39 reigns.  

[[Mommy's Little Monster]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 albums, Punk albums

Mommy's Little Monster is the first album by American punk rock band Social Distortion. It was released in 1983 under the label 13th Floor Records. While this album was not commercially successful, it was critically acclaimed, and is even considered one of the best selling albums ever made on an independent label. The album features their live staples "The Creeps", "Another State of Mind", "Telling Them" and the title track, which has been frequently played by KROQ, the legendary Los Angeles, California radio station.

[[Beachwood, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Beachwood is a city in Ohio. It is well known for its schools. Its schools have been given a blue ribbon award, making them one of the best schools in Ohio.cn

[[Against the Grain]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 albums, Bad Religion albums, Punk albums

Against the Grain is the fifth album by American punk rock band Bad Religion, released on the Californian independent record label Epitaph Records on November 23, 1990. After the release of this album, drummer Pete Finestone left Bad Religion in 1991 to concentrate with his new project The Fishermen. Following his departure, their music would take a different direction on their next album, 1992's Generator.

Against the Grain was highly anticipated by both music critics and fans as a result of the band's success with their last two albums, Suffer and No Control. Even though Against the Grain still did not break Bad Religion into mainstream audiences, it was the first 100,000 seller, and showed how quickly they were growing.

The album's 13th track, "21st Century (Digital Boy)", was re-recorded and appeared on their eighth full-length studio album Stranger Than Fiction. The Stranger Than Fiction version of that song made Bad Religion even more popular.

[[Recipe for Hate]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums, Bad Religion albums, Punk albums

Recipe for Hate is the seventh album by American punk rock band Bad Religion. It was released on the Californian independent record label Epitaph Records in 1993. It was released again on Atlantic Records after the band signed to that label.

Despite being released on a major label, Recipe for Hate initially received mixed reviews from music critics, who generally found it to be less impressive than Bad Religion's older albums, but it has gained a cult following in recent times. The album got the band's highest U.S. chart position to date, debuting at #14 on Billboard's Heatseekers chart, and scored the radio hits "American Jesus" and "Struck a Nerve".

[[Greg Hetson]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, American folk musicians, American guitarists, American punk musicians, Bad Religion, Living people, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Musicians from New York City

Greg Hetson (born June 29, 1961) is an American guitarist. He was born in Brooklyn, New York, but moved to Los Angeles, California when was 2 years old and still lives there today. Hetson is best known as the guitarist for the influential hardcore punk bands Redd Kross, Circle Jerks and Bad Religion. He was a founding member of Black President and also plays guitar in another supergroup, Punk Rock Karaoke.

[[Flower Street]]

CATEGORIES: Curitiba, Roads

The XV Street is in Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil. It is a stretch of 15th Street downtown. Since 1971, only people are allowed in it.

It is the first promenade in Brazil, and is lined with many businesses. At the end of the year, the show "At The Palace Coral Avenue" takes place here by the headquarters of HSBC in Brazil. The street have many stores and restaurants , it is a famous street in Curitiba.

[[You're My Heart, You're My Soul]]

CATEGORIES: Modern Talking, 1984 songs

"You're My Heart, You're My Soul" is the first single by the German duo Modern Talking. The song is part of their debut album "The 1st Album". The single was released in 29 October 1984. It reached the Germany Top 10 in 28 January 1985. Five weeks later, the single topped the German charts. where it stayed six weeks, It was in the German charts for 25 weeks. It earned gold status for selling 250,000 units there. "You're My Heart, You're My Soul" is known as the best selling single of the duo. It sold over 8 million copies. It reached #1 in other thirty-five countries.

The single was sold 500,000 in France. It earned gold in France too. The music video of the single was recorded in 1984. It was filmed in the RTL studios in Luxembourg.

The single was re-released in 1998 as "You're My Heart, You're My Soul '98". It marked the duo's comeback after their 1987 break-up. This time, it gained a similar success. It earned gold for selling more than 250,000 in Germany alone.

[[Francisco Yeste]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Francisco Yeste (born 6 December 1979) is a Spanish former footballer. He has played for Athletic Bilbao.

[[Philip Ifil]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Philip Ifil (born 18 November 1986) is an English football player. He plays for Colchester United.

[[Manuel Almunia]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Spanish association football goalkeepers, People from Pamplona

Manuel Almunia (born 19 May 1977) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Arsenal.

[[Pierre Womé]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Cameroonian footballers

Pierre Womé (born 26 March 1979) is a Cameroonian football player. He plays for Köln and Cameroon national team.

[[Raúl Albiol]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Raúl Albiol (born 4 September 1985) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Real Madrid and Spain national team.

[[Ivan Klasnić]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Ivan Klasnić (born 29 January 1980) is a Croatian football player. He plays for Bolton Wanderers and Croatia national team.

[[Willesden]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London

Willesden is an area found in North-west London. The name "Willesden" comes from the Anglo-saxon word: Willesdune which means The Hill of the Spring.

[[Antonín Panenka]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Czech footballers, Sportspeople from Prague

Antonín Panenka (born 2 December 1949) is a former Czech football player. He has played for the Czechoslovakian national team. He played most of his career for Bohemians Prague.  Panenka won UEFA Euro 1976 with Czechoslovakia. In the final against West Germany, he scored the winning penalty in the shootout with a softly-chipped ball up the middle of the goal as the goalkeeper dived away; this style of penalty is now called the Panenka penalty. In 1980, he won Czechoslovak Footballer of the Year.

[[David Healy]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Northern Irish footballers

David Healy (born 5 August 1979) is a Northern Irish retired football player.

[[Hiroyuki Nishijima]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Nara Prefecture

Hiroyuki Nishijima (born 7 April 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Consadole Sapporo.

[[Public nudity]]

CATEGORIES: Nudity

Public nudity is nudity that is not in private.  It means a person being nude in a public place, or seen from public places.  Nudity in private places, such as a home, swimming pool, or nudist club does not count, as these are private places.

[[Vincent Candela]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, French footballers

Vincent Candela (born 24 October 1973) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Polgár]]

Polgár is a Hungarian name which may refer to:

[[Emiliano Moretti]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Italian footballers, Sportspeople from Rome

Emiliano Moretti (born 11 June 1981) is an Italian football player. He plays for Genoa.

[[Paolo Cannavaro]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Paolo Cannavaro (born 26 June 1981) is an Italian football player. He plays for Napoli.

[[Ranko Popović]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Serbian footballers, Serbian football managers

Ranko Popović (born 26 June 1967) is a former Serbian football player.

[[Diego Ribas da Cunha]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Diego Ribas da Cunha (born 28 February 1985) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Juventus.

[[Kazumi Tsubota]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Cerezo Osaka players

Kazumi Tsubota is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Thomas Sørensen]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Danish footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Thomas Sørensen (born 12 June 1976) is a Danish football player. He plays for Stoke City and Denmark national team.

[[Zanesville, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, Former United States state capitals, County seats in Ohio, 1790s establishments in the Northwest Territory, 1797 establishments in the United States

Zanesville is a city in and the county seat of Muskingum County, Ohio, United States.6 The population was 25,487 at the 2010 census.

It was founded by Ebenezer Zane. Zane had constructed Zane's Trace, a pioneer road through present-day Ohio.  He settled in the area in 1797 with his son-in-law, John McIntire. They put the town at the point where Zane's Trace met the Muskingum River.

From 1810-1812, the city was the second state capital of Ohio.  The National Road runs through Zanesville as U.S. Route 40.  Novelist Zane Grey, a descendant of the Zane family, was born in the city. 

The city has two engineering landmarks: the Muskingum River Canal, designated a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark; and the Zanesville Y-Bridge, the only such structure in the United States still in use and listed on the National Register of Historic Places.

[[Entomophagy]]

CATEGORIES: Insects, Food and drink

Entomophagy is a term of Ancient Greek origins, and means using insects as a source of food. It can be found in insects that eat other insects, birds, amphibians and mammals. Non-human animals that feed on insects are known as insectivores. 

The term also describes human insect-eating, which can be found in parts of North, Central and South America, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Australia and New Zealand. Insect-eating is uncommon, or even taboo in some societies.

[[Kazumasa Takagi]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagawa Prefecture

Kazumasa Takagi (born 17 December 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi.

[[Yasuhito Morishima]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Yasuhito Morishima (born 18 August 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Oita Trinita.

[[Takuya Miyamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Takuya Miyamoto (born 8 July 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.

[[Kohei Miyazaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Kohei Miyazaki is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.

[[Circle Jerks]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 establishments in California, 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American punk bands, Musical groups established in 1979, Musical groups from California

The Circle Jerks are a legendary punk rock band from California. The band was formed in 1979 by Black Flag's original singer, Keith Morris, and future Bad Religion guitarist Greg Hetson. They were one of the preeminent hardcore punk bands of the L.A. scene in the early 1980s. As of April 2010, the Circle Jerks have released six full-length albums. Their latest one, Oddities, Abnormalities and Curiosities, came out in 1995.

[[Naoki Ishikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Naoki Ishikawa   is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football player.

[[Ryota Miki]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Ryota Miki (born 12 April 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Fagiano Okayama.

[[Saeed Al-Owairan]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Saudi Arabian footballers, People from Riyadh

Saeed Al-Owairan (born 19 August 1967) is a former Saudi Arabian football player. He has played for Saudi Arabia national team.

[[Shinya Kawashima]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Shinya Kawashima (born 20 July 1978) is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Shunsuke Oyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Shunsuke Oyama  is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football player.

[[Boeing X-37]]

CATEGORIES: Spaceflight, Boeing aircraft

The Boeing X-37 is an unpiloted demonstration spaceplane that is intended to test future spaceflight technologies while in orbit and during atmospheric reentry. It is a reusable robotic spacecraft based on the smaller X-40. The X-37 began as a NASA project in 1999, then was transferred to the US Department of Defense in 2004. The X-37 had its first flight as a drop test in April 2006 at Edwards AFB. The spacecraft was launched in April 2010 to begin a United States Air Force mission.

[[Puerto Natales]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Puerto Natales is a Chilean commune. It is in the Region of Magallanes and the Chilean Antarctica. The city was founded in 1911. It had 19,116 people as of 2002. It has an area of 49924. It is also the capital of the Province of Última Esperanza.

[[Aftershock]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquakes

An aftershock is a smaller earthquake which comes after a large earthquake (called the main shock) in the same area. An aftershock is the opposite of a foreshock, which a small earthquake comes before the large earthquake.

[[Barcode]]

CATEGORIES: Data input, Barcodes

A barcode is a way of storing numbers printed in a way that a computer can easily read. The first barcodes stored the numbers using lines (bars).

The first use of barcodes was to label railroad rolling stock. They became a big success when they were used in supermarket checkout systems. The first product that used a barcode was a pack of Wrigley's Juicy Fruit Gum sold on June 26, 1974. It was invented by IBM engineer George J. Laurer. Barcodes are now used for many purposes.

[[Nathalia Dill]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Brazilian actors, People from Rio de Janeiro

Nathalia Goyannes Dill Orrico, better known as Nathalia Dill (March 24, 1986 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) is a Brazilian actress. She played the villain, Débora Rios, in the fifteenth season of the series Malhação. In her last television work, Nathalia was protagonist of the novel "Paraíso", Benedito Ruy Barbosa, where she played the character Maria Rita (Santinha).

[[Optical mark recognition]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Data input

OMR (optical mark recognition) is a form of automated data input. Marks are made on a specially printed paper forms which are then read by an OMR reader. The data is then sent to a computer for processing.

One of the most common uses of OMR is in multiple choice examinations. Students mark their answers on specially printed sheets using either a pencil or a special marker. The sheets are then collected in and the data read using a sheet feed OMR scanner

[[Optical character recognition]]

CATEGORIES: Data input

Optical character recognition (OCR) is a method of automatic data entry. OCR software is used to convert handwritten, type-written or printed text into data that can be edited on a computer. 

In simple systems, the paper documents are scanned with an image scanner. The OCR software then looks at the image and compares the shapes of the letters to stored images of letters. In this way, it makes a text file that can be edited with a normal text editor.

More complex systems look at images, layout and so on. This can make editable electronic versions which look identical to the original documents.

OCR works best with clean, clearly printed materials.

[[Nhundiaquara River]]

CATEGORIES: Paraná State

Nhundiaquara River is in the Serra do Mar, on the coast of Paraná, Brazil.

The historic river was the first natural route linking the coast to the state plateaus. At the start of the settling, it was named Cubatão, being considered the richest gold river, thus contributing significantly to the development of the counties.

[[Istrian Italians]]

CATEGORIES: Italian-speaking countries, Italian people, History of Italy, Croatia, Slovenia

Istrian Italians are one of the ethnic groups of Istria. The others are Croatians, Slovenians and Istrorumanians.

[[Valentina Tolkunova]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2010 deaths

Valentina Vassilyevna Tolkunova (Валентина Васильевна Толкунова; b. 12 July 1946, Armavir - d. 22 March 2010, Moscow) was a Russian singer.

[[Toshikazu Kato (born in 1969)]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Toshikazu Kato (born 22 April 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Luke Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, Sportspeople from Birmingham, Premier League players

Luke Moore (born 13 February 1986) is an English footballer. He plays for West Bromwich Albion.

[[Atsuyoshi Furuta]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players

Atsuyoshi Furuta is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Anthony Le Tallec]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, French footballers

Anthony Le Tallec (born 3 October 1984) is a French football player. He plays for Le Mans.

[[Lee Bowyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Lee Bowyer (born 3 January 1977) was an English football player. He played for Birmingham City.

[[Justin Hoyte]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Justin Hoyte (born 20 November 1984) is an English football player. He plays for FC Cincinnati.

[[Armand Traoré]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, French footballers, Sportspeople from Paris

Armand Traoré (born 8 October 1989) is a French football player. He plays for Arsenal.

[[Steven Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London

Steven Taylor (born 23 January 1986) is a English football player. He plays for Newcastle United.

[[Makoto Okubo]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Makoto Okubo (born 3 May 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Mitsuaki Kojima]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Mitsuaki Kojima (born 14 July 1968) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Katsuhiro Minamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Katsuhiro Minamoto (born 2 July 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yasuyuki Sato]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Yasuyuki Sato (born 12 April 1966) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Francisco Javier García]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Francisco Javier García (born 8 February 1987) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Benfica.

[[Portuguese]]

Portuguese might mean:

[[Design management]]

CATEGORIES: Management, Innovation

"Simply put, design management is the business side of design. Design management encompasses the ongoing processes, business decisions, and strategies that enable innovation and create effectively-designed products, services, communications, environments, and brands that enhance our quality of life and provide organizational success."   

This means that design management is not limited on a single design discipline.  In his 'Classification of Design' (1976), Gorb divided design into three different classes; design management operates in and across all three categories:

Design management is not independent from the organization and product context, and plays three integrative key roles in the interface of design, organisation and market:

Supportive activities are used in design management to manage design more efficient ('doing the things right') and effectively ('doing the right things'). Depending on a multitude of factors (such as industry, company size, design focus, market situation and the position / role of design within the company), design managers have a broad range of job profiles, with very different roles, activities and responsibilities.

[[Middlegame]]

CATEGORIES: Chess

The middlegame is the part of a game of chess after the opening.

The middlegame begins when most of the pieces have been developed. It is where most games are won and lost. Many games will end in resignation even before an endgame takes place.

The simplest way to learn the middlegame is to select an opening and learn it well (see examples in English opening and French defence).

[[Truro Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in England, Cornwall

Truro Cathedral is the cathedral of the Church of England Diocese of Truro in the city of Truro, Cornwall, in the United Kingdom. The Bishop of the diocese is Timothy Martin Thornton. It is one of the three cathedrals in the United Kingdom to have three spires, the other two are Lichfield Cathedral and St Mary's Cathedral in Edinburgh. The architect of the cathedral was John Loughborough Pearson and it was built in the Gothic Revival style, 1880-1910. The south aisle of the cathedral was part of the medieval parish church of St Mary.

[[VHS]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment, Electronics

VHS (short for Video Home System) is a system that uses a videocassette tape to record video and sound, which can be watched on a television. A DVD/VHS combo can record (write) on VHS tapes, read off VHS tapes, and additionally, read from DVD discs. A few can also record on DVD. VHS was so popular that during the 1990s, the terms "videocassette", "videotape", or even just "video" usually referred to the VHS format.

VHS cassettes can be recorded using a video camera. They can also be recorded with a videocassette recorder, or VCR. A VCR can use a VHS cassette to record broadcast television.

This system was created in 1976 by the Victor Company of Japan (also called JVC). VHS was a very popular way for people to record and play video at home in the 1980s and 1990s, but now DVD (Digital Versatile Disc) and Blu-ray have become more popular as they can be easier to use, the quality is higher, they last longer, and the discs and players are cheaper to make. VHS VCRs, as well as blank tapes and pre-recorded VHS movies, are no longer made, except for a few independent films. Blank tapes are still widely available as new old stock.

[[Telemetry]]

CATEGORIES: Measurement, Technology

Telemetry (also known as telematics) is a technology that allows measurements to be taken from far away. Usually this means that an operator can give commands to a machine over a telephone wire, or wireless internet from far away, and the computer can report back with the measurements it takes.

[[Agustín Ross]]

CATEGORIES: 1844 births, 1926 deaths, Chilean politicians, People from Pichilemu, Diplomats

Agustín Ross Edwards (February 5, 1844, La Serena, Chile - October 20, 1926, Viña del Mar, Chile) was a Chilean politician, diplomatic and banker. He was son of David Ross and Carmen Edwards. He was married with Susana Ferari.

[[Blueprint]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A blueprint is a technical drawing which usually contains instructions for how to build an architecture or engineering design. It is sometimes used to talk about any detailed plan. 

[[José Arraño]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2009 deaths, Chilean writers, People from Pichilemu, Historians

José Santos Arraño Acevedo (14 October 1921 - 24 November 2009) was a famous writer and historian from Pichilemu, mostly known for his books on the history of the city.

[[Boeing 367-80]]

CATEGORIES: Boeing 707

The Boeing 367-80 is an American prototype jet plane. The people who worked at Boeing called the plane the "Dash 80". It was made to show airlines how good jet aircraft were.

The Dash 80 was the prototype for the Boeing KC-135 Stratotanker and the Boeing 707. It was made in less than two years.

Only one was made. It is now in the Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center at Washington Dulles International Airport in Virginia.

[[Harvey Birdman, Attorney at Law]]

CATEGORIES: Adult Swim, English-language television programs

Harvey Birdman, Attorney at Law is a Adult Swim program that stars Birdman who started out as a super hero on the Hanna-Barbera program Birdman and the Galaxy Trio and is now a lawyer for Sebben Sebben. Several villains from that show return on this show and also brings back characters like Phil, Peanut, and Avenger. 

[[Bosque Capão da Imbuia]]

CATEGORIES: Curitiba, Forests, Geography of Brazil

The Bosque do Capão da Imbuia (grove) is a park in the city of Curitiba in Paraná, Brazil.

With a large size area of native forest, the grove has many attractions for tourists.

The main attractions are:

The oldest tree in Curitiba is an Ocotea porosa that is almost a thousand years old. This tree is in  "Bosque do Capão da Imbuia".

[[Ben Folds Five]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from North Carolina

[[Woolmer Green]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Hertfordshire, Civil parishes in Hertfordshire

Woolmer Green is a small village in Hertfordshire, England.

It is between the villages of Welwyn and Knebworth, Woolmer Green was first settled in the Iron Age. The Belgae colonised the area in the 1st century BC, and later it was settled by the Romans. 

Many Roman artefacts have been found in the surrounding area. There was a Roman bath house at nearby Welwyn. The village was at the junction of two thoroughfares, the Great North Road and another road called Stane Street from St Albans. The route of this road runs across the parish along the path of Robbery Bottom Lane, continuing on as a public bridleway to Datchworth and then Braughing, on its way to another major Roman town, Colchester.

Thomas de Wolvesmere is recorded as having lived here in 1297, and his name may have led to the present name of the village.

[[Rubén de la Red]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Rubén de la Red (born 5 June 1985) is a Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.

[[Ryuji Kato]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Ryuji Kato (born 24 December 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hideaki Mori]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Hideaki Mori (born 16 October 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Sho Ito]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Sho Ito (born 24 July 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos as a striker.

[[Maxwell Cabelino Andrade]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Maxwell Cabelino Andrade (born 27 August 1981) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Paris Saint-Germain F.C.

[[Mary of Modena]]

CATEGORIES: 1658 births, 1718 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, House of Este, Kings and Queens of Ireland, Kings and Queens consort of Scotland, People from Modena

Mary of Modena (Maria Beatrice Eleonora Anna Margherita Isabella d'Este; 05 October – 7 May) was Queen consort of England, Scotland and Ireland.  She was the second wife of King James II. Mary was a very firm Catholic. She married James, Duke of York, (the future James II) in 1673. He was the younger brother of Charles II. Mary was not interested in politics. Instead, she was devoted to James, and gave birth to two children who lived to become adults. They were Louise Mary and the Jacobite James Francis Edward Stuart, who became known in history as "The Old Pretender".

Mary was born as a princess of the Italian Duchy of Modena. She is mostly remembered for the birth of James Francis Edward. Most of the English people thought he was not really Mary's son. They believed he had been secretly brought into the birth-room in a warming-pan to continue King James II's Catholic rule. The privy council investigation declared that the story was false. However, James Francis Edward's birth was one of the reasons why the Glorious Revolution happened. In the Glorious Revolution, King James II was deposed by his daughter Mary and her husband William III of Orange.

The "Queen over the water"—as Jacobites (followers of James II) called Mary—was exiled to France. She lived with her family in the Château de Saint-Germain-en-Laye, which Louis XIV of France had given her. Louis XIV's courtiers liked Mary, but thought James was not interesting. When James died, Mary spent a lot of time with the nuns at the Convent of Chaillot. When James II died in 1701, the Jacobites saw James Francis Edward as king. Because he was too young to rule, Queen Dowager Mary acted as regent until he became 16. Later, "James III" was forced to leave France because of the Treaty of Utrecht. This left Mary without any family in France (Princess Louise Mary had died of smallpox). Mary died of breast cancer in 1718. She was kindly remembered by the people in France at that time.

[[Juan Pablo Ángel]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Colombian footballers

Juan Pablo Ángel (born 24 October 1975) is a Colombian football player. He has played for Colombia national team.

[[Ciprian Marica]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Romanian footballers, Sportspeople from Bucharest

Ciprian Marica (born 2 October 1985) is a Romanian football player. He plays for Stuttgart and Romania's national team.

[[Hideki Nishimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Hideki Nishimura (born 15 April 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Morten Gamst Pedersen]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Norwegian footballers

Morten Gamst Pedersen (born 8 September 1981) is a Norwegian football player. He plays for Blackburn Rovers and Norway national team.

[[Manabu Kubota]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Shimane Prefecture

Manabu Kubota (born 27 June 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Naoyuki Okimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, People from Hiroshima

Naoyuki Okimoto (born 13 June 1984) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryota Terauchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Ishikawa Prefecture

Ryota Terauchi (born 26 April 1982) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Dani Alves]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Association football defenders, Association football full-backs, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Daniel Alves (born 6 May 1983) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for São Paulo and Brazil national team. He can play as a Right-Back or an Attacking Midfielder. He is considered one of the best Right-Backs of all time.

[[Daniel Carvalho]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Daniel Carvalho (born 1 March 1983) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Keita Kanemoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Keita Kanemoto (born 13 July 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yutaka Azuma]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokushima Prefecture, Japanese football managers

Yutaka Azuma is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player and manager.

[[Yasutaka Yoshida]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Yasutaka Yoshida is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hossam Ghaly]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Egyptian footballers, Egypt international footballers

Hossam Ghaly (born 15 December 1981) is a retired Egyptian football player. The last club he played for was Al-Ahly in Egypt. He also played for the Egyptian national team.

[[Eric Gerets]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Belgian footballers, Belgian football managers, Eredivisie managers

Eric Gerets (born 18 May 1954) is a former Belgian football player. He has played for Belgium national team.

[[Darius Vassell]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, Sportspeople from Birmingham, Premier League players

Darius Vassell (born 13 June 1980) is an English footballer. He plays for Ankaragücü.

[[Hisashi Jogo]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture, Avispa Fukuoka players

Hisashi Jogo (born 16 April 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Avispa Fukuoka.

[[Masato Morishige]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Oita Trinita players, FC Tokyo players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Masato Morishige is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Wuyi Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of China, Biosphere reserves

The Wuyi Mountains are a mountain range with an area of 60 km² that cover the northern border of Fujian province with Jiangxi province, China.

[[Norwegian Labour Party]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 establishments in Europe, Socialist International, Social democratic parties, Political parties in Norway, 19th century establishments in Norway

The Norwegian Labour Party has been, since its founding in 1887, the main political party of the centre-left in Norway. It is currently the party of government in the country. It is the biggest party in Norway.

[[Socialist Left Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Norway, Socialism, Green politics

The Socialist Left Party has been, since its founding in 1975, the second strongest political party of the left in Norway. It is currently member of the Red-Green coalition. It is the fifth biggest party in Norway.

[[Red Party (Norway)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Norway

The Red Party is a small political party on the left in Norway. It was started in 2007 and the current leader is Bjørnar Moxnes.

[[Mektig og avmektig]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 books, Non-fiction books

Mektig og avmektig: Tore Tønne, media og maktspillet bak kulissene (English: Powerful and powerless: Tore Tønne, media and power play behind the scenes) is a book written by Ivar Hippe, a Norwegian. The book is about the Tore Tønne case.

[[Dofus]]

CATEGORIES: Online games, Massively multiplayer online role-playing games

Dofus is a Flash-based massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG). It was made and published by Ankama Games.

[[Sinn Féin]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Ireland, Political parties in Northern Ireland, Nationalist organizations in Europe, 1905 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in the Republic of Ireland, 1905 establishments in the United Kingdom

Sinn Féin is a political party in Ireland. Beginning with the Sinn Féin organisation set up in 1905 by Arthur Griffith, it took its current form in 1970 after a split within the party. The leader of Sinn Féin has been Mary Lou McDonald since February 2018. It is one of the most important parties arguing for a united island of Ireland and is described as left wing. In the past, the party has been linked to the Provisional IRA. The name is Irish for "ourselves" or "we ourselves", although it is frequently wrongly translated as "ourselves alone".

Sinn Féin is the second largest party in the parliament of Northern Ireland (the Northern Ireland Assembly), the third largest party in the parliament of the Irish Republic (Dáil Éireann) and has 7 elected members of the British House of Commons, however, party policy says that representatives must refuse to take their seats there.

[[Diana Wynne Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, English writers, Writers from London

Diana Wynne Jones (August 16, 1934 – March 25, 2011) was an author from England. She wrote fantasy novels. Fantasy novels are books with magic or other things that are not real, like dragons or people who can change the shape of their bodies. One of her books, Howl's Moving Castle, was made into a movie in 2004.

She was friends with another fantasy author from England named Neil Gaiman. She won many prizes for her books.

[[Sherman, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas, 1846 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Texas

Sherman is a city in northern Texas near Dallas and Oklahoma.  It is the county seat of Grayson County.

[[Kıbrıs Türk Hava Yolları]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the Middle East, Nicosia

Kıbrıs Türk Hava Yolları (often called K.T.H.Y or Cyprus Turkish Airlines in English) was the biggest airline in Northern Cyprus. Its main base of operation was at Ercan International Airport not far from the city of Nicosia. From, there it flied to mainland Turkey as well as some cities in Germany and the United Kingdom.

Its fleet had: one Airbus A320, two Airbus A321 and four Boeing 737-800.

Due to the complicated political situation in Northern Cyprus all flights that K.T.H.Y operate to Europe must travel via an airport in Turkey (for all German flights that airport was Antalya).

[[Iberia (airline)]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Spain

Iberia (Iberia Líneas Aéreas) is the biggest airline in Spain. It is based in the Spanish capital city Madrid. It also operates many flights from Barcelona. Iberia also operates a smaller airline called Air Nostrum. That airline operates very short, so called 'regional' flights using the Iberia logo and colour scheme. It is also a member of Oneworld airline alliance.

[[Orthodontist]]

CATEGORIES: Orthodontics, Healthcare occupations

An orthodontist is a dentist (a doctor that works on teeth) that specializes in straightening teeth with things like braces.

[[Chicoutimi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Quebec, Former cities in Canada

Chicoutimi is a city in Quebec, Canada. The name comes from Shkoutimeou, which means "the end of the deep water" in the Montagnais language, one of the Algonquian languages. Located 225 kilometres north of Quebec City, it is home to part of the Université du Québec. Until 2002 it was a separate city, and is now a part of Saguenay

[[Vágner Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Vágner Love (born 11 June 1984) is a Brazilian football player; he plays for CSKA Moscow.

[[Lucas Leiva]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Mato Grosso do Sul

Lucas Pezzini Leiva or Lucas Leiva (ˈlukɐz ˈlejvɐ) (born 9 January 1987) is a Brazilian professional footballer who plays as a defensive midfielder for Lazio.

[[Takaya Oishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Takaya Oishi (born 7 July 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yasuhiro Yoshida]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Yasuhiro Yoshida is a former Japanese football player.

[[Naoki Naito]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Naoki Naito (born 30 May 1968) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Francisco Pavón]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Madrid

Francisco Pavón (born 9 January 1980) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Real Zaragoza.

[[Kenji Wakai]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Kenji Wakai (born 22 September 1974) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Elano]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Elano (born 14 June 1981) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Galatasaray and Brazil national team.

[[Collins John]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Liberian people, Naturalised citizens of the Netherlands

Collins John (born 17 October 1985) is a Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Jelle Van Damme]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Belgian footballers, People from East Flanders

Jelle Van Damme (born 10 October 1983) is a Belgian football player. He plays for Anderlecht and Belgium national team.

[[Satoshi Koga]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Satoshi Koga is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takashi Kageyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Takashi Kageyama (born 27 May 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Motoki Ueda]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Motoki Ueda (born 14 May 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Nobuyasu Ikeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Nobuyasu Ikeda (born 18 May 1970) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koichi Kawazoe]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Koichi Kawazoe (born 4 July 1961) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tsubasa Oya]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Shimane Prefecture

Tsubasa Oya (born 13 August 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vissel Kobe.

[[Tenerife South Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Spain, Canary Islands

Tenerife South "Reina Sofia" Airport (IATA: TFS ICAO: GCTS) is an airport in the south-west of the island of Tenerife, one of the Canary Islands.

This is actually one of two airports in Tenerife, the other one is Tenerife North (Los Rodeos). Most of the flights bringing people on holiday to the island use this airport. The airport was opened in 1978 after it was decided in a few years earlier that Tenerife needed a new airport urgently due to foggy weather closing Tenerife North airport quite often. The first flight to land at the airport was carrying the Queen of Spain Her Majesty Queen Sofia, the airport is named after her. The airport is operated by a company called AENA which operates all civil airports in Spain.

In 2009, just over 7 million passengers used the airport.

[[Daisuke Nakamaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Daisuke Nakamaki (born 27 May 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[John Aldridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, 1990 FIFA World Cup players, 1994 FIFA World Cup players, Irish football managers, Irish footballers, Sportspeople from Liverpool

John Aldridge (born 18 September 1958) is an Irish former football player and manager. He has played for Republic of Ireland national team.

[[Gary Breen]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Irish footballers, Sportspeople from London

Gary Breen (born 12 December 1973) is an Irish football player. He has played for Republic of Ireland national team.

[[Faisal Al-Dakhil]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Kuwaiti people, Asian footballers

Faisal Al-Dakhil (born 13 August 1957) is a former Kuwaiti football player. He has played for [[Kuنتؤترزرزرز

wait national football team|Kuwait national team]].

[[Junki Koike]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Junki Koike is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football or soccer player.

[[Kenji Haneda]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Kenji Haneda (born 1 December 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Cerezo Osaka.

[[Hunza-Nagar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Gilgit-Baltistan

The Hunza-Nagar District is the seventh district of Gilgit Baltistan of Pakistan. The district is made up of Hunza and Nagar. Sikandarabad is the administrative center of this district. Before the announcement of the new district, Hunza-Nagar was part of district Gilgit.

[[Speech recognition]]

CATEGORIES: Data input

Speech recognition (also known as voice recognition) is the process of converting spoken words into computer text. The user speaks into a microphone and the computer creates a text file of the words they have spoken.

Although the accuracy of these systems has improved in the 21st century, they are still far from perfect.  If you only need them to recognise a few words, for example the words one, two, three etc., then speech recognition software can be very accurate. This is why this feature has started to appear on modern mobile phones. But systems that can recognise any word spoken by any person in any language are still a few years away.

You can greatly improve the accuracy of these systems by training them to recognise just one voice. This is usually done by getting the user to read a short set piece of text into the microphone. The user looks at the text which has been created and corrects any mistakes the software has made.  By repeating this a number of times the computer's accuracy increases a great deal.

[[Smile (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Queen (band)

Smile was a rock band which preceded the rock band Queen. It formed in 1967. The members were Brian May (guitar), Roger Taylor (drums) and Tim Staffell (bass and vocals). When Tim Staffell left the band in 1970, Freddie Mercury replaced him and the band became Queen. John Deacon joined in 1971.

[[Vinyl cutter]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Output devices

A vinyl cutter is a type of computer controlled machine. Small vinyl cutters look like computer printers. The computer controls the movement of a sharp blade.  This blade is used to cut out shapes and letters from sheets of thin self-adhesive plastic (vinyl).

[[Oddanchatram]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tamil Nadu

Oddanchtram is a city in the Dindigul District of Tamil Nadu. It is known as the vegetable city of Tamil Nadu. Plants grown here are onion,maize, tomato, chilli, cauliflower, beans and other vegetables. The vegetables are exported to nearby states. Also it is famous for its vegetable and curd market, which can sell up to 5,000 tons of produce a day. It has very good climatic conditions as it is surrounded by beautiful mountains. Palani Lord Murugan Temple is near Oddanchatram. It is an ancient temple built on top of the Palni Hills. It is one of the most visited temples in Tamil Nadu, where people have to climb 600 steps to reach the shrine.

It connected by road to major cities of Tamil Nadu including Madurai, Coimbatore, Erode, Trichy, Chennai, and also to other states such as Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.

[[Total Drama Action]]

CATEGORIES: Total Drama

Total Drama Action is the second season in the Total Drama television series. It started on June 11, 2009. The players on the show are Geoff, Bridgette, Izzy, Trent, Gwen, Owen, Heather, Le-Shawna, Courtney, Beth, Lindsay, Justin, Harold, Duncan, DJ,

[[Total Drama World Tour]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series

Total Drama World Tour is the third season of the Total Drama series. The season started in June 21, 2010. There were originally 17 players on the show. The players are Ezekiel, Tyler, Lindsay, Noah, Harold, LeShawna, Duncan, Courtney, Bridgette, Alejandro, Heather Sierra, Cody, Izzy, DJ, Gwen, Owen and additionally Blaineley, who appeared in Episode 19.

[[Santa Felicidade neighborhood]]

CATEGORIES: Curitiba, Neighborhoods, 1878 establishments, 1870s establishments in Brazil

Santa Felicidade is one neighborhood of the city of Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil.

The Santa Felicidade neighborhood came into being in 1878, when the first Italian immigrants arrived in Paraná. Today it is famous for its many fine restaurants where typical Italian food is served.

Besides good food, visitors and tourists have great attractions such as:

- House of geraniums;

- House Culpi.

Two secular buildings and typical of Italian immigrants.

The neighborhood is a tribute to the woman Portuguese Felicidade Borges.

[[Joakim Soria]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas City Royals players, Mexican sportspeople, 1984 births, Living people

Joakim Soria (born May 18, 1984 in Monclova, Mexico) is a Major League Baseball (MLB) relief pitcher for the Detroit Tigers. He was with the Kansas City Royals from 2007 to 2012, and was an All-Star twice for the Royals. He was nicknamed "The Mexicutioner", but in February 2011, he said that he does not want to be called that anymore because of violence in Mexico.

[[Fitness (disambiguation)]]

Fitness occurs in the title of these pages:

[[Slate]]

CATEGORIES: Metamorphic rocks

Slate is a metamorphic rock. It is formed from shale by being under pressure and moderate heat. Shale itself is formed from muddy clay, splits into thin plates. This characteristic splitting is carried over into slate. Schist is a rather similar type of metamorphic rock.

[[Sachio Yoshida]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Sachio Yoshida (born 6 April 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Daishi Kato]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Daishi Kato (born 26 July 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Manuel Fernandes]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Sportspeople from Lisbon

Manuel Fernandes (born 5 February 1986) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Valencia.

[[Andrea Bocelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Blind people, Brit Award winners, Italian singers, Multi-instrumentalists, Musicians from Tuscany, Italian opera singers, Songwriters, Tenors

Andrea Bocelli Grande Ufficiale OMRI OMDSM (born 22 September 1958) is an Italian tenor and crossover artist. He was blinded by a Football accident at the age of 12, and later graduated from law school, before beginning a career as a singer.

Since 1994, he has recorded both pop and Classical albums, and has sold over 85 million copies worldwide. He is generally considered as both the most popular Italian and Classical singer in the world, today.

On March 2, 2010, he was honoured with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

[[Kikuo Konagaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Kikuo Konagaya (born 16 July 1950) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Toshiya Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Ishikawa Prefecture

Toshiya Tanaka (born 12 November 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Zweigen Kanazawa.

[[Eiji Hirata]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Eiji Hirata (born 16 May 19) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takashi Onishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Takashi Onishi (born 16 October 1971) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shola Ameobi]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Newcastle upon Tyne, Nigerian footballers, Sportspeople from Tyne and Wear, Premier League players

Shola Ameobi (born 12 October 1981) is an Nigerian-English football player. He plays for Newcastle United.

[[Aiden McGeady]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Irish footballers, Sportspeople from Glasgow

Aiden McGeady (born 4 April 1986) is an Irish football player. He plays for Celtic and Republic of Ireland national team.

[[Pavel Černý]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Czech footballers

Pavel Černý (born October 11, 1962) is a former Czech football player. He has played for the Czechoslovakia national team.

[[Yushi Ozaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Yushi Ozaki (born 24 March 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hiroshi Sato]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Hiroshi Sato (born 7 March 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takenori Ikeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Shimane Prefecture

Takenori Ikeda (born 11 February 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Quinton Fortune]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, South African footballers, People from Cape Town

Quinton Fortune (born 21 May 1977) is a South African football player. He has played for South Africa national team.

[[Bantu languages]]

CATEGORIES: Niger-Congo languages

The Bantu languages (or Narrow Bantu languages) are a branch of the Niger-Congo languages. There are about 520 languages in the Bantu family, 670 languages in the Southern Bantoid branch which includes Bantu, and 1,532 in Niger-Congo. Bantu languages are spoken largely east and south of the present day country of Cameroon; i.e., in the regions commonly known as central Africa, east Africa, and southern Africa. Parts of the Bantu area include languages from other language families (see map). The Bantu language with the largest total number of speakers is Swahili.

The Bantu language with the largest number of native speakers is Shona with 13.8 million speakers in Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Botswana and Zambia. Zulu comes second with 10.3 million speakers.

The Bantu languages came from the region of eastern Nigeria or Cameroon. About 2000 years ago the Bantu people spread southwards and eastwards, introducing agriculture and iron working and colonizing much of the continent.

[[Terukazu Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Terukazu Tanaka (born 14 July 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.

[[Niger–Congo languages]]

CATEGORIES: Niger-Congo languages

The Niger–Congo languages are a hypothetical language family. They are spoken in the southern half of Africa.  They may be world's largest language family in terms of number of languages.  Most of the most widely spoken languages of Subsaharan Africa belong to this group.  A common part of many Niger-Congo languages is the use of a noun class system. The most widely spoken Niger-Congo languages by native speakers are Yoruba, Igbo, Fula and Shona. The most widely spoken by total number of speakers is Swahili.

[[Ivar Hippe]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Norwegian journalists, Writers from Oslo

Ivar Hippe (born March 19, 1953) is a Norwegian social democrat in Oslo. He is a journalist and is best known for being kicked out of Argentina during the British-Argentinian war. He wrote the book Mektig og avmektig: Tore Tønne, media og maktspillet bak kulissene.

He is the brother of Jon Hippe.

[[Ken Tokura]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Ken Tokura (born 16 June 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vissel Kobe.

[[Kenya Matsui]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Kenya Matsui (born 10 September 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Cerezo Osaka.

[[Ryoji Yukutomo]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Ryoji Yukutomo (born 20 April 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Mirko Vučinić]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Montenegrin footballers

Mirko Vučinić (born 1 October 1983) is a Montenegrin football player. He plays for Roma and Montenegro national team.

[[Mista]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Mista (born 12 November 1978) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Deportivo La Coruña.

[[Pascal Cygan]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, French footballers

Pascal Cygan (born 29 April 1974) is a French football player. He plays for Cartagena.

[[Carlo Cudicini]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Chelsea F.C. players, Italian association football goalkeepers, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players, Sportspeople from Milan

Carlo Cudicini (born 6 September 1973) is a retired Italian football player who played as a goalkeeper. He is currently a club ambassador and assistant to the first team head coach at Chelsea.

Born in Milan, Carlo belongs to a family of footballers in which Fabio Cudicini, his father, played for A.C. Milan as a goalkeeper and Guglielmo Cudicini, his grandfather, was a defender who played for the Italian football club Ponziana. Further, he is the uncle of Matteo Cudicini who currently plays for Italian club Vigevano Calcio as a defender.

[[Andrey Gustavo dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian footballers, 1974 births, Living people

Andrey Gustavo dos Santos (born 23 September 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Neško Milovanović]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Bulgarian footballers

Neško Milovanović (born 4 December 1974) is a Bulgarian football player.

[[Jonathan Spector]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, American footballers

Jonathan Spector (born 1 March 1986) is an American soccer player. He plays for West Ham United and United States national team.

[[Masahiro Akimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture

Masahiro Akimoto (born 15 April 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Junya Ohata]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Junya Ohata (born 6 April 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yuya Matsuoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Yuya Matsuoka (born 15 June 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hisashi Hiroike]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture

Hisashi Hiroike (born 5 October 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Masato Tamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Masato Tamada (born 25 August 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[American Samoa national football team]]

CATEGORIES: National football teams, American Samoa

American Samoa national football team is the national football team of American Samoa.

[[Ian Crook]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, English footballers, English football managers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Ian Crook (born 18 January 1963) is a former English football player.

[[Antônio Carlos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro

Antônio Carlos Santos (born 8 June 1964) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Ryuichi Hirashige]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Kataller Toyama players

Ryuichi Hirashige (born 15 June 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Tomokazu Nagira]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Shimane Prefecture, Avispa Fukuoka players

Tomokazu Nagira (born 17 October 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Avispa Fukuoka.

[[Wawel Dragon]]

CATEGORIES: Folklore, Kraków

The Wawel Dragon is a well known Polish folktale. The dragon lived in a cave under Wawel Hill, on the banks of the Vistula River. Wawel Hill is in the city of Kraków, in Poland. 

The Wawel Cathedral and Kraków's castle are built on Wawel Hill. In the cathedral there is a statue of the dragon. The dragon's cave under the castle is now a popular tourist stop.

[[Renal cell carcinoma]]

CATEGORIES: Renal cancer

Renal cell carcinoma is a type of renal cancer (cancer of the kidneys). Often, if it is found early, it can be cured.  However, if the cancer has already spread to other parts of the body metastasized by the time it is diagnosed, it is much more difficult to treat successfully.

[[Self-portrait]]

CATEGORIES: Art

A Self portrait is a picture of the artist drawing it. The earliest example of a self-portrait made was Jan van Eyck in 1433. The most famous self portrait painter was Vincent van Gogh. He painted a picture of himself 37 times from 1886 to 1889.

[[3D printing]]

CATEGORIES: Technology stubs, Innovation, Printing

3D printing is a way of creating three dimensional (3D) solid objects. 3D printing is done by building up the object layer by layer. Usually, 3D printers use plastic, because it is easier to use and cheaper. Some 3D printers can 3D print with other materials, like metals and ceramics, but they cost too much money for most people.

3D printers are useful because they can make new objects very fast, and are good at making them very detailed. This means an engineer can test a lot of new designs and not have to wait for someone else to make them. They are also useful for fixing parts made of plastic, and for making toys, figures, and models. There are a lot of people who print 3D objects at home.

Since 2003, many more materials printers have been sold than before. Also, the cost of 3D printers has gone down.

[[Air travel]]

CATEGORIES: Air travel

Air travel is the process of going from place to place by any flying object, such as airplanes, helicopters, balloons, or anything that can fly. 

Air travel has been a very long dream of human beings from the ancient age. People seeing birds flying tried to take flight in many ways. At the end of the 18th century they made balloons, and at the beginning of the 20th they made machines that could fly. Air travel has made travel much faster. Today we can think of going around the world in 24 hours, which was never possible with any other type of transport.

Today air travel is a normal way to travel, for pleasure, personal need or business. 

Air travel can be broadly put into two groups; domestic flights, and international flights. Air travel within a country are called domestic flights. Most countries have domestic airlines to provide this service. Air travel across the borders of countries are called international flights. Long distance air travel is mostly international.

[[GABA]]

CATEGORIES: Amino acids

GABA is ''gamma''-Aminobutyric acid (γ-Aminobutyric acid). It is a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system of mammals. It is an inhibiting neurotransmitter. Normally, when a neuron receives an impulse, it will make the signal stronger. In the case where there is an inhibiting neurotransmitter, the cell will no longer get the impulse, and the signal as a whole will be weakened. 

GABA regulates how much neurons in the central nervous system will be stimulated in humans, and other mammals. It plays a role in regulating neuronal excitability throughout the nervous system. In humans, GABA is also directly responsible for the regulation of muscle tone. In insect species GABA acts only on excitatory nerve receptors.

Even though chemically it is an amino acid, GABA is rarely referred to as such in the scientific or medical communities. The term "amino acid," used without a qualifier, refers to the alpha amino acids, which GABA is not. GABA is also not incorporated into proteins.

[[Stroke (engine)]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics

A stroke is the full single action of an engine to intake, compress, combust, and finally to exhaust a fuel. This action is typical of a 4-stroke engine. The combined action of intake, compression, combustion, exhaust, causes the shaft of the engine to spin. This action is repeated at a rate referred to as rpm's, revolutions per minute. The way "rpm's" are measured varies by the type of motor, and what "stroke" that motor is.

[[Italian car number plates]]

CATEGORIES: Italy, Law, Road transport

Italian car number plates used to show the place in Italy where the car carrying them has been registered. Now, Italian car number plates have black characters on a rectangular white background, with a small blue part on the right and left. In the current system, which number a car's license gets has nothing to do with where the car's owner lives.

[[Abraham (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Abraham is a male name.  It refers to the Abraham of the Bible. In Hebrew, the name Abraham means "father of many". In Arabic, the name can be translated to be Ibrahim.

People named Abraham include:

[[Yuta Abe]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture, Renofa Yamaguchi FC players

Yuta Abe (born 31 July 1974) is a retired Japanese football player.

[[Lomana LuaLua]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, African footballers, People from Kinshasa

Lomana LuaLua (born 28 December 1980) is a Democratic Republic of the Congo football player. He plays for Olympiacos and Congo DR national team.

[[Toru Yasutake]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Toru Yasutake (born 10 December 1978) is a former Japanese football player. 

[[Takeshi Ikoma]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Takeshi Ikoma (born 17 January 1971) is a Japanese football coach.

[[Tatsuya Makiuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Tatsuya Makiuchi (born 30 January 1964) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jean-Paul Vonderburg]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Jean-Paul Vonderburg (born July 31, 1964) is a former Swedish football player. He has played for the Swedish national team.

[[Katsuyuki Kawachi]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players

Katsuyuki Kawachi is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Chris Kirkland]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, English association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Leicestershire, Premier League players

Chris Kirkland (born 2 May 1981) is an English footballer. He plays for Wigan Athletic.

[[Wes Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, Sportspeople from Manchester, Premier League players

Wes Brown (born 13 October 1979) is an English footballer. He plays for Sunderland F.C. and England national team.

[[Kunihiko Akabane]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagano Prefecture

Kunihiko Akabane (born 20 August 1972) is a retired Japanese football player.

[[Kenji Wakamatsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Kenji Wakamatsu (born 16 August 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tetsuya Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Tetsuya Tanaka is a former Japanese football player.

[[Mark Bresciano]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Melbourne

Mark Bresciano (born 11 February 1980) is an Australian football player. He plays for Città di Palermo and Australia national team.

[[Samir Nasri]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Arsenal F.C. players, French footballers, Manchester City F.C. players, West Ham United F.C. players, Sportspeople from Marseille

Samir Nasri was (born on the 26th of June in 1987) is a French football player. He is currently not signed with any football club. He also played for the France national team. He is a midfielder. He is of Algerian heritage. Nasri has been called a player whose "vision and imagination make him an unpredictable opponent". His playing style, ability, and cultural background have led people to compare him to French legend Zinedine Zidane.

Nasri began his football career playing for local youth clubs in his hometown of Marseille. He joined the professional club, Olympique de Marseille at the age of 9. He spent seven years developing in the club's youth academy at La Commanderie, which is the club's training center. Nasri made his professional debut in the 2004–05 season at the age of 17. In the next season, he became a regular starter in the team. He also took part in European competition for the first time in the 2005–06 UEFA Cup. In the 2006–07 season, Nasri won the National Union of Professional Footballers (UNFP) Young Player of the Year award and was also named in the Team of the Year. He finished his career with Marseille making over 160 appearances. He played in the teams that reached back-to-back Coupe de France finals in 2006 and 2007.

In June 2008, Nasri joined Premier League club Arsenal. He agreed on a four-year contract. He reached fame with the team in his third season where he won the Professional Footballers' Association (PFA) Fans' Player of the Month award three times. He was alson named in  the PFA's Team of the Year. In December 2010, he was named the French Player of the Year for his performances during the year. In August 2011, after three seasons with Arsenal, Nasri joined Manchester City. He agreed on a four-year contract. In his first season with the club, they won the 2011–12 of the Premier League. This was Nasri's first important honour as a player.

Nasri was a French youth international. He has played for his nation at every level for which he was able to. He played on the France under-17 team that won the 2004 UEFA European Under-17 Football Championship. Nasri made his senior team debut in March 2007. It was a friendly match against Austria. Two months later, he scored his first senior international goal in a 1–0 UEFA Euro 2008 qualifying win over Georgia. Nasri has played for France at two major international tournaments: UEFA Euro 2008 and UEFA Euro 2012.

[[Yasumasa Makino]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yasumasa Makino (born 1 July 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koji Yoshikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Shimane Prefecture

Koji Yoshikawa (born 4 July 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tsukimitsu Mizuta]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Tsukimitsu Mizuta (born 13 September 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tomasz Kuszczak]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Polish footballers

Tomasz Mirosław Kuszczak (born 20 March 1982) is a Polish football player. He plays for Manchester United and Poland national team.

[[Pyrite]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals, Iron compounds

The mineral pyrite, or iron pyrite, is an iron sulfide with the formula FeS2. This mineral's metallic lustre and pale-to-normal, brass-yellow colour have earned it the nickname fool's gold because of its resemblance to gold. The term pyrite may also be used for some other sulphides such as copper sulphide.

[[John Lewis (pianist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2001 deaths, American pianists, American composers

John Aaron Lewis (May 3, 1920 – March 29, 2001) was an American jazz pianist and composer. He was best known as the musical director of the Modern Jazz Quartet.

[[Kazuhiko Chiba]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Albirex Niigata players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, Nagoya Grampus players

Kazuhiko Chiba is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kazuhisa Kawahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Albirex Niigata players

Kazuhisa Kawahara  is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football or soccer player.

[[Masaki Chugo]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Masaki Chugo (born 16 May 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[Naoki Hatta]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Naoki Hatta is a Japanese football player.

[[Mario J. Molina]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Chemists, Mexican Nobel Prize winners, Mexican scientists

Mario J. Molina (March 19, 1943 – October 7, 2020) was a Mexican chemist who won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1995. This was because, in the 1970s, he was one of the scientists who discovered that there was a hole in the ozone layer in the Earth's atmosphere. He is the first Mexican to receive the Nobel Prize in Chemistry.

Molina was one of 20 Nobel Laureates who signed the "Stockholm memorandum" at the 3rd Nobel Laureate Symposium on Global Sustainability in Stockholm, Sweden on 18 May 2011. Molina led a committee of the American Association for the Advancement of Science which released a stark report on global warming March 2014.

Molina was born in Mexico City. He studied at National Autonomous University of Mexico, University of Freiburg and at the University of California, Berkeley. Molina died in Mexico City from a heart attack on October 7, 2020 at the age of 77.

[[Andriy Voronin]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Ukrainian footballers

Andriy Voronin (born 21 July 1979) is a Ukrainian football player. He plays for Dynamo Moscow and Ukraine national team.

[[Kazuki Ganaha]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Okinawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Kawasaki Frontale players, Vissel Kobe players, FC Ryukyu players, Kamatamare Sanuki players

Kazuki Ganaha is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Jorge Vargas]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Chilean politicians, People from Pichilemu

Jorge Vargas Gonzalez (Pichilemu, February 8, 1967) is a Chilean politician, singer, composer. He was the mayor of Pichilemu from 1997 to 2007, when he was fired due to legal reasons.

[[Dye-sublimation printer]]

CATEGORIES: Printers

A dye-sublimation printer (or dye-sub printer) is a high quality computer printer that uses heat to make coloured images.

The ink is held on cellophane sheets that are the same size as the paper. A 6" x 4" printer would use 6" x 4" ink sheets. Each image uses 4 sheets - 3 ink sheets Cyan, Magenta and Yellow and a clear sheet.

Each sheet of ink is printed one at a time. So making an image takes a long time.

The images are very high quality. They waste a lot of ink. This means that the prints are very expensive.

[[Rockhopper penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins

The rockhopper penguins are closely related crested penguins that were thought to be a single species. They are now usually split into two or three species.

Not all experts agree on the classification of these penguins. Some think all three are distinct species. Some split the western and eastern forms into the southern rockhopper penguin and keeping the northern rockhopper as distinct, while other experts lump all three, calling it simply 'rockhopper penguin'.

They have a crest of feathers on their heads. Unlike other penguins, they usually live in rocky places. They are called rockhopper because they hop from rock to rock to their nesting places. They keep both feet together so they can jump up more than a metre.

Although the rockhopper penguin is one of the world’s most numerous penguins, the population has dropped almost 90% since the early 20th century. The cause of this decline is mainly unknown. Scientists speculate that humans are involved, mostly by commercial overfishing, oil exploitation, and pollution.

[[Kidney cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Renal cancer

Kidney cancer is a form of cancer that begins in the kidneys. Common forms include Wilms tumor, which occurs in children, and renal cell carcinoma.

[[Crunchy Black]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Memphis, Tennessee, American rap musicians, American dancers, Singers from Indiana, 1974 births, Living people

Crunchy Black (born August 1974 in Indiana) is an American rapper and dancer from Memphis, Tennessee. He left in 2006. He is best known for being a member of the Oscar-winning hip hop group Three 6 Mafia. Crunchy is known for his dancing "G-Walking", which he says he started doing at Club Memphis. He is not the starter of this dance but he is very good at it. He is known as a pioneer.

[[Hellhound]]

CATEGORIES: Mythology, Demons

A hellhound is a supernatural dog, found in mythology, folklore and fiction. Like the dragon, many ominous or hellish supernatural dogs are found in mythology around the world.

They often have to guard the entrances to the world of the dead, such as graveyards and burial grounds, or do other things related to the afterlife or the supernatural. These might be hunting down lost souls or guarding a supernatural treasure. In European legends, seeing a hellhound or hearing it howl may be either an omen or a cause of a soon death.

It is said to be bigger than a normal dog. Hellhounds are often said to have black fur, glowing red or sometimes glowing yellow eyes, a lot of strength or speed, ghostly or phantom features, a bad smell, and sometimes even being able to talk. In cultures that think that there is fire in the afterlife, hellhounds may have fire-based abilities and looks.

[[Wilms tumor]]

CATEGORIES: Renal cancer

Wilms' tumor, also known as Nephroblastoma, is a form of kidney cancer that occurs most often in children. It has an excellent prognosis, with 90% of patients living for more than five years after being diagnosed.

[[Pancreatic cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Diseases and disorders of the digestive system

Pancreatic cancer  is cancer in the pancreas. It has a poor prognosis, with less than 5% of patients surviving beyond five years after the cancer has been diagnosed.

[[Abdominal pain]]

CATEGORIES: Pain, Digestive system

Abdominal pain (also called a stomach ache) is a pain or ache in the abdomen. It can be caused by different things, including food poisoning, indigestion, constipation, gastritis, an ulcer, hunger, appendicitis, stomach cancer or diverticulitis.

[[Renal medullary carcinoma]]

CATEGORIES: Renal cancer

Renal medullary carcinoma is a rare form of Renal cancer that occurs most often in patients with Sickle cell trait or Sickle cell disease.

[[Clear cell sarcoma of the kidney]]

CATEGORIES: Renal cancer

Clear cell of the kidney is an unusual form of renal (kidney) cancer. It may spread from the main tumor site (in the kidney) to other parts of the body, including the bone and lung.

[[Glioblastoma multiforme]]

CATEGORIES: Brain tumors

Glioblastoma multiforme is a malignant brain tumor that carries an extremely poor prognosis. 

[[Jordan Schroeder]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, Living people, Sportspeople from Minnesota, Minnesota Wild players, Vancouver Canucks players, Ice hockey centres

Jordan Schroeder (born September 29, 1990 in Prior Lake, Minnesota) is an American professional ice hockey right winger who currently plays for the Minnesota Wild of the NationalHockey League (NHL). Schroeder played for two seasons with the U.S. National Team Development Program before he joined the Minnesota Golden Gophers of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association (WCHA) for two seasons, being named WCHA Rookie of the Year in 2009. He has also played for the American national junior ice hockey team and played in three World Junior Championships, where he set a record for career points by an American. Thought of as one of the best junior players before the 2009 NHL Entry Draft, Schroeder was picked 22nd overall by the Vancouver Canucks. He played with the Canucks and the minor teams for the Canucks until 2014, when he joined the Wild.

[[Sania Mirza]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Female tennis players, Indian sportspeople, 1986 births, BBC 100 Women

Sania Mirza (ثانیہ مرزا), born November 15, 1986, is an Indian tennis player. She began her tennis career in 2003. In 2004, she was given the Arjuna award by the Indian Government. She is known for her powerful forehand ground strokes. 

[[Akira Kawaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Akira Kawaguchi is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shiro Hashimitsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Shiro Hashimitsu (born 28 December 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ken Michiki]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Ken Michiki (born 16 October 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kenji Tomita]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Kenji Tomita (born 1 July 1967) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hirobumi Zaima]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Hirobumi Zaima (born 2 April 1964) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryoji Araki]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Ryoji Araki (born 10 May 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takahisa Iwamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Japanese footballers

Notability

Takahisa Iwamura (born 11 May 1978) is a former Japanese football player. 

[[Taro Goto]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Taro Goto (born 24 December 1969) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hideaki Hagino]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Hideaki Hagino (born 30 January 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kazuo Sumata]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture

Kazuo Sumata (born 1 May 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Nitroglycerin]]

CATEGORIES: Explosives, Nitrogen compounds

Nitroglycerin, also known as nitroglycerine (UK spelling), trinitroglycerin, trinitroglycerine, 1,2,3-trinitroxypropane  and glyceryl trinitrate, is a heavy, colorless, oily, explosive liquid obtained by nitrating glycerol. It is very dangerous and easy to detonate. It was synthesized in 1847 by Italian chemist Ascanio Sobrero. Alfred Nobel used it to make one of the most famous explosives in the world during 1867, named dynamite.

[[Marcus Bent]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from London, Premier League players, Crystal Palace F.C. players

Marcus Bent (born 19 May 1978) is an English football player. He plays for Queens Park Rangers. 

[[Patrice Evra]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, French footballers, Manchester United F.C. players, Senegalese footballers, People from Dakar

Patrice Evra (born 15 May 1981) is a Senegalese-French football player. He played as a left back for Manchester United and the French national team.

[[Kazuyoshi Hamaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Kazuyoshi Hamaguchi (born 25 May 1960) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shabani Nonda]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, African footballers, People from the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Shabani Nonda (born 6 March 1977) is a Democratic Republic of the Congo football player. He has played for Congo DR national team.

[[Kosuke Harada]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture

Kosuke Harada (born 21 December 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryuji Nagata]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Ryuji Nagata is a former Japanese football player.

[[Norihiro Kawakami]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Shimane Prefecture

Norihiro Kawakami (born 4 April 1987) is a Japanese football player.

[[Seol Ki-hyeon]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Seol Ki-Hyeon (born 8 January 1979 ) is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korea Republic national team.

[[Agustín Delgado]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Ecuadorian footballers

Agustín Delgado (born 23 December 1974) is an Ecuadorian football player. He has played for Ecuador national team.

[[Shuichi Gonda]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, FC Tokyo players, Sagan Tosu players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics

Shuichi Gonda is a Japanese football player. He plays for the Japan national team.

[[Bronisław Komorowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Presidents of Poland, Marshals of the Sejm

Bronisław Maria Komorowski (born 4 June 1952, Oborniki Śląskie) is a Polish centre-right politician and the ex-President of Poland. He was elected on 5 July 2010, after President Lech Kaczyński died in a plane crash near Smolensk, Russia.

Previously, Komorowski, who is a member of the Sejm since 1989, was an opposition activist during a period of communist rule, Minister of Defense (2000-2001) and Marshal of the Sejm (2007-2010).

A member of the old Polish nobility, he's related to, among others, General Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski, who led the Warsaw uprising during World War II, and to Crown Princess Mathilde of Belgium.

[[Toru Miyamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Toru Miyamoto (born 3 December 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi.

[[Yūsuke Tanaka (born in February 1986)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Yūsuke Tanaka (born 3 February 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Avispa Fukuoka.

[[Temozolomide]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Cancer treatment

Temozolomide is a chemotheraputic drug used in the treatment of Glioblastoma multiforme and Anaplastic astrocytoma. It has been shown to extend survival in these patients. It is currently an experimental treatment in Metastatic melanoma patients.  

[[Kazuki Hara]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Kazuki Hara (born 5 January 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.

[[Keisuke Iwashita]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Keisuke Iwashita (born 24 September 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.

[[Astrocytoma]]

CATEGORIES: Brain tumors

An astroctytoma is a form of a brain tumor that comes from astrocytes (a type of brain cell). 

There are many kinds of astrocytomas. They are separated into two categories; Low-grade astrocytomas and High-grade astrocytomas.

[[2009–10 Chicago Blackhawks season]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in ice hockey, 2010 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons

The 2009–10 Chicago Blackhawks season was the team's 83rd season in the National Hockey League (NHL). For the second year in a row, the Blackhawks made a noteworthy transaction in the free agency period, signing forward Marian Hossa to the largest deal in franchise history. The Blackhawks sought to improve upon their success during the 2008–09 season, where they reached the Western Conference Finals. Expectations were extremely high for the young squad, with Sports Illustrated predicting them to win the Stanley Cup. On June 9, 2010, The Blackhawks defeated the Philadelphia Flyers, 4 games to 2, in the 2010 Stanley Cup Finals which gave the organization its first NHL championship since 1961 and fourth overall

[[2009–10 Montreal Canadiens season]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in ice hockey, 2010 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2009 in Canada, 2010 in Canada

The 2009–10 Montreal Canadiens season is their 100th season of play and 92nd in the National Hockey League (NHL). The 2009 NHL Entry Draft took place in Montreal, Quebec, on June 26–27.

[[2009–10 Boston Bruins season]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in ice hockey, 2010 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2009 in the United States, 2010 in the United States, 21st century in Boston, Massachusetts

The 2009–10 Boston Bruins season is the Bruins' 85th season in the National Hockey League (NHL). Their regular season began with a nationally televised home game against the Washington Capitals on October 1, 2009, and ended with a road game against the same Capitals team on April 11, 2010. The Bruins failed to defend their regular-season division and conference titles from the 2008–09 season.

[[2009–10 Nashville Predators season]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in ice hockey, 2010 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, Nashville Predators, 2009 in the United States, 2010 in the United States, 2000s in Nashville, Tennessee, 2010s in Nashville, Tennessee

The 2009–10 season is the Nashville Predators' eleventh season in the National Hockey League.

[[Philmont Scout Ranch]]

CATEGORIES: New Mexico

Philmont Scout Ranch is a ranch owned by the Boy Scouts of America in Cimarron, New Mexico.  There, scouts can hike throughout hundreds of miles of trails. Many of the activities there are called "high adventure".  Philmont is the home of Pedro, the mascot of Boys' Life magazine.

[[2010 Stanley Cup playoffs]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 in Canada, 2010 in ice hockey, 2010 in the United States, Stanley Cup playoffs

The 2010 Stanley Cup playoffs of the National Hockey League (NHL) began on April 14, 2010, after the conclusion of the 2009–10 NHL season. The Finals ended on June 9, 2010 when the Chicago Blackhawks defeated the Philadelphia Flyers in six games to win the team's fourth Stanley Cup and their first Cup since 1961. The Washington Capitals became the first team seeded first to lose a series to the eighth-seeded team after having a 3–1 lead in the series.

[[Flash flood]]

CATEGORIES: Floods

A flash flood is very quick flooding of low-lying land, usually without prior warning. It may be caused by heavy rain or water from melted ice or snow. Flash floods can also happen after the collapse of a dam.  A tsunami causes similar problems but is not usually called a flash flood.

[[Finger Lakes]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of New York, Lakes of the United States

The Finger Lakes are a series of lakes in the central section of Upstate New York. They are a popular tourist destination. The lakes are long and thin and go from north to south. They are also very deep. The deepest one, Lake Seneca, is 618 deep.

[[Cape Fear (headland)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of North Carolina, Capes of the United States

Cape Fear is a large headland that goes into the Atlantic Ocean from North Carolina in the southeastern United States.

[[Craven County, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: North Carolina counties, 18th-century establishments in North Carolina, 1712 establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

Craven County is a county in the U.S. state of North Carolina. In 2006 it was guessed that 94,875 people lived there. Its county seat is New Bern.6

[[Absecon, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Jersey

Absecon is a city in Atlantic County, New Jersey, United States. As of the United States 2000 Census, 7,638 people lived in it.2

[[Fanconi anemia]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic disorders

Fanconi anemia (FA) is a rare genetic disorder. It is a kind of anemia. People suffering from the disease produce a smaller amount of red and white blood cells. It is named after Guido Fanconi who first described the disease, in 1929. It should not be confused with Fanconi syndrome. Fanconi syndrome is a disorder affecting the kidneys.

[[Stack machine]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science, a stack machine is a model of computation in which the computer's memory takes the form of one or more stacks.

[[Captain Hook]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters

Captain Hook is a fictional pirate from the book Peter Pan by J. M. Barrie and the movie of the same name. He is the villain of the story.

[[O'Hare International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Chicago, 1944 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in Illinois

O'Hare International Airport is an airport on the edge of Chicago, Illinois. It is in the Chicago neighborhood O'Hare. It is one of the largest airports in both the United States and the world. It is a "hub" for both United Airlines (its second largest hub) and American Airlines, meaning that flights from many cities come and go from the airport daily.  It gets the most international flights of any American airport not on the East or West Coast.

The Federal government of the United States reduces the amount of delayed flights in the airport in order to shift the burden of domestic flights at Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport.

United Airlines (including United Express) is the largest airline at O'Hare, carrying over 45% of passengers. O'Hare is the second-largest hub for United, after Houston-Bush. American Airlines (including American Eagle) has the second largest operation at O'Hare, carrying 37.08% of passengers. O'Hare is American Airlines' third-largest hub, after Dallas/Fort Worth and Charlotte-Douglas.

O'Hare has been voted the "Best Airport in North America" for 10 years by two separate sources: Readers of the U.S. Edition of Business Traveler Magazine (1998–2003) and Global Traveler Magazine (2004–2007). Travel and Leisure magazine's 2009 "America's Favorite Cities" ranked Chicago's Airport System (O'Hare and Midway) the second-worst for delays, New York City's airport system (JFK, Newark Liberty, and LaGuardia) being the first. O'Hare currently accounts for over a sixth of the nation's total flight cancellations.

The O'Hare Airport is 668 feet (204 meters) above sea level.

It is operated by the City of Chicago Department of Aviation. Most of O'Hare Airport is in Cook County. However, a section of the southwest part of the airport is in DuPage County. The Cook County portion is located within a section of the city of Chicago contiguously connected to the rest of the city via a narrow strip of land about 200 feet (61 m) wide, running along Foster Ave. from the Des Plaines River to the airport. This land was annexed into the city limits in the 1950s to assure the massive tax revenue associated with the airport being part of the city. The strip is bounded on the north by Rosemont and the south by Schiller Park.

[[Stiliyan Petrov]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Bulgarian footballers

Stiliyan Petrov (born 5 July 1979) is a Bulgarian football player. He plays for Aston Villa and Bulgaria national team.

[[Tom Sermanni]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Scottish footballers

Tom Sermanni (born 1 July 1954) is a former Scottish football player and the current head coach of the United States women's national team.

[[Toshiaki Tsukioka]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture

Toshiaki Tsukioka (born 14 November 1971) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Daisuke Matsuyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Daisuke Matsuyama (born 20 July 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Nolberto Solano]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Peruvian footballers

Nolberto Solano (born 12 December 1974) is a Peruvian football player. He has played for Peru national team.

[[Yuichi Yoshimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Yuichi Yoshimoto (born 25 March 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kimio Hata]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japanese football managers

Kimio Hata (born 27 November 1965) is a Japanese football manager.

[[Álvaro Mejía Pérez]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Madrid

Álvaro Mejía Pérez (born 18 January 1982) is a Spanish football player. He plays for the Qatari club Al-Shahaniya Sports Club.

[[Evair]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Evair Aparecido Paulino (born 21 February 1965) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazilian national team.

[[Katsuhiro Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Katsuhiro Suzuki (born 26 November 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Benni McCarthy]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, South African footballers, People from Cape Town

Benni McCarthy (born 12 November 1977) was  a South African football player. He played for West Ham United and the South Africa national team. He is the current head coach of Cape Town City FC.

[[André Ooijer]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

André Ooijer (born 11 July 1974) is a Dutch football player. He plays for PSV Eindhoven and Netherlands national team.

[[John Heitinga]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from South Holland

John Heitinga (born 15 November 1983) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Everton and Netherlands national team.

[[Luis Fernández]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers

Luis Fernández (born 2 October 1959) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Khalid Boulahrouz]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from South Holland

Khalid Boulahrouz (born 28 December 1981) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Brøndby IF since October 2013 and Netherlands national team.

[[Jumpei Takaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Jumpei Takaki (born 1 January 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.

[[Kota Sugiyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Kota Sugiyama (born 24 January 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.

[[Rikihiro Sugiyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Rikihiro Sugiyama is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player.

[[Ryuta Sasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Ryuta Sasaki (born 7 February 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashima Antlers.

[[Satoshi Kukino]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture

Satoshi Kukino (born 16 April 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.

[[Shingo Akamine]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Okinawa Prefecture

Shingo Akamine (born 8 December 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo.

[[Shinji Okazaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, 2018 FIFA World Cup players, 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Shinji Okazaki is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shinzo Koroki]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Kashima Antlers players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Footballers at the 2016 Summer Olympics

Shinzo Koroki is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shunsuke Tsutsumi]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Shunsuke Tsutsumi (born 8 June 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Urawa Red Diamonds.

[[Tadashi Takeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Japanese footballers

Tadashi Takeda (born 27 July 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Fagiano Okayama.

[[Samanda]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2007 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, Living people, Big Brother contestants, British girl groups, British pop music groups, British television personalities, English models, English pop music groups, Musical duos, Musical groups disestablished in 2010, Musical groups established in 2007, People from Staffordshire, Twin people from England

Samanda (Amanda Louise Marchant and Samantha Joanne Marchant), born 26 June 1988, were a British female duo. They formed in the UK in 2007 after exiting Big Brother in 2nd place behind Brian Belo. 

They have had 1 single with Barbie Girl which charted at 26 in the United Kingdom and 45 in the Republic of Ireland. They also had a top 200 hit with Honey Love. They are part of the Sony BMG record label. 

[[Young Concert Artists Trust]]

CATEGORIES: Music competitions, 1984 establishments

The Young Concert Artists Trust, usually called YCAT (pronounced like "why cat?") is a trust which organizes competitions for young musicians in the United Kingdom who play classical music.

Young musicians can apply to take part in the competition (in 2010 there were 120 applicants).  There are two rounds to select the best of them, and a final competition which takes place in a concert hall in front of an audience.  The winners get the chance to play in several concerts and recitals in famous concert halls such as the Wigmore Hall and Purcell Room in London  and  the Bridgewater Hall in Manchester.

YCAT was founded in 1984 by Michael Kaye (following discussions between concert pianist Jack Gibbons and Sir Simon Hornby, chairman of W.H.Smith, YCAT's first sponsor). The competitions have been held now for 25 years.  It can be won by individual people (one person) or by small chamber groups.

The YCAT gets its money from organizations and individual people who give money to it.

In 2010 YCAT celebrates its 25th anniversary with two gala concerts at the Wigmore Hall. YCAT award winners from previous years will be playing together with the YCAT winners of today.

YCAT winners over the years have included the Belcea Quartet,  Leopold String Trio, the violist Philip Dukes, cellist Li-Wei Qin, double bassist Dominic Seldis and violinists So-Ock Kim,Laurent Korcia and Thomas Gould.

[[Belcea Quartet]]

CATEGORIES: String quartets

The Belcea Quartet is a string quartet which was formed in 1994.  The leader (first violinist) of the quartet is Corina Belcea.

The four musicians got together when they were studying at the Royal College of Music in London. They had lessons from the members of the Chilingirian Quartet. Then they studied with the Alban Berg Quartet.  They won many awards, including the YCAT award.

They soon became famous, performing in the Carnegie Hall in 2000 and at the Edinburgh International Festival in 2001.  They played regularly in the Wigmore Hall in London from 2001 to 2006 (they were called "quartet in residence"). The quartet has also performed at the Vienna Musikverein and the Amsterdam Concertgebouw.  They have made many recordings.  

The players names are: Corina Belcea-Fisher and Laura Samuel (violins), Krzysztof Chorzelski (viola) and Antoine Lederlin, (cello).  Originally the cellist was Alasdair Tait.

[[Satyagraha]]

CATEGORIES: India, Philosophy, Peace, Violence

Satyagraha (सत्याग्रह satyāgraha) is the idea of non-violent resistance (fighting with peace) started by Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (also known as "Mahatma" Gandhi). Gandhi used satyagraha in the Indian independence movement and also during his earlier struggle in South Africa. 

Satyagraha helped shape Nelson Mandela's struggle in South Africa under apartheid, Martin Luther King, Jr.'s campaigns during the civil rights movement in the United States, and many other similar movements.  Someone who does satyagraha is a 'satyagraha.

He also used in his peculiar movements and numerous non - violent struggles in the motherland of India. Like Daandi March, Non - Cooperation Movement, Salt March; etc.

[[Spanair]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Spain

Spanair was an airline based in Catalonia which is in Spain. It's main base of operations or hub is at Barcelona Airport but it also flew many flights from Madrid Airport and Palma de Mallorca Airport. The airline was a member of the major airline alliance Star Alliance. Spanair stopped its flight operations the 27th of January, 2012, when its closure was announced.

[[Vueling]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Spain, Low-cost airlines, Airlines of Spain, Barcelona

Vueling Airlines (often called just Vueling) is an Spanish airline. It is based in Barcelona. It was founded in 2004. The airline is a 'low-cost' airline. This means they try to make their tickets as affordable as possible for passengers. In 2009, Vueling merged with another Spanish airline called Clickair. Vueling is the 2nd largest airline in Spain. 

[[Binter Canarias]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Spain, Canary Islands

Binter Canarias is an airline operating in the Canary Islands, part of Spain. Their headquarters is on the island of Gran Canaria. Most of their flights are between the islands of the Canary Islands.

Binter Canarias flies to Morocco and Madeira as well as to all seven Canary Islands

The Binter Canarias fleet is 21 ATR-72s. 3 of them are the older 200 series and the other 18 are the newer 500 series.

[[Air Europa]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Spain

Air Europa is a Spanish airline based on the Balearic island of Mallorca. It operates flights within Spain but also to other places in Europe and further away, it concentrates on the holiday market.

[[Air Nostrum]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Spain

Air Nostrum (trading as Iberia Regional) is a regional airline based in Spain. It is not actually owned by Iberia however it works in very close partnership with them. Another interesting fact is that Air Nostrum's main base is Valencia Airport, not Madrid Airport the main base of Iberia Airlines.

[[Cycad]]

CATEGORIES: Gymnosperms

Cycads are seed plants whose fossils are first found in the early Permian period.

They were very common in the Mesozoic era, the age of the dinosaurs, and are still living, but are now much less common. Only 9 genera (about 100 species) of cycads are found to be extant nowadays. Cycads are thought to have evolved from order Pteridospermae (seed ferns) of angiosperms, now totally extinct.

They are different from most plants because they have large crowns of compound leaves and a stout trunk. They are evergreen, dioecious plants having large pinnately compound leaves. 

They are frequently confused with and mistaken for palms or ferns, but are only distantly related to both, and instead belong to the division Cycadophyta.

Cycads are gymnosperms (naked seeded). Their unfertilized seeds are open to the air to be directly fertilized by pollination. This contrasts with angiosperms, which have enclosed seeds and more complex fertilization arrangements. Cycads have very specialized pollinators, usually a specific species of beetle. 

They have been reported to fix nitrogen in association with various cyanobacteria living in the roots (the "coralloid" roots). 

These photosynthetic cyanobacteria produce a neurotoxin called BMAA that is found in the seeds of cycads. This neurotoxin may enter a  human food chain if the cycad seeds are eaten, and may cause some neurological diseases.

[[Melodic hardcore]]

CATEGORIES: Hardcore punk

Melodic hardcore is a subgenre of hardcore punk. Exploring melodies are an important part of melodic hardcore. Gunther "Puddinfoot" Crines described the style as "just so nice". It came out of L.A. hardcore with the Descendants. In 1985, the Descendents worked with two new singers, Dave Smalley of DYS and Dag Nasty. Bad Religion also worked in this style. Another well known melodic hardcore band is Pennywise.

[[Daisuke Yoneyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Daisuke Yoneyama (born 10 June 1982) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Manuel Pasqual]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Manuel Pasqual (born 13 March 1982) is an Italian football player. He plays for Fiorentina.

[[Teruyuki Tahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Teruyuki Tahara (born 3 May 1968) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Enzo Maresca]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Enzo Maresca (born 10 February 1980) is an Italian football player. He plays for Olympiacos.

[[Lee Cheong-Gyeong]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, North Korean footballers

Lee Cheong-Gyeong (born 11 November 1958) is a former North Korean football player. He has played for Korea DPR national team.

[[Calum Davenport]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, British crime victims, English footballers, Sportspeople from Bedfordshire, Premier League players

Calum Davenport (born 1 January 1983) is an English footballer.

On 22 August 2009, Davenport was stabbed by his sister's boyfriend, who was convicted of grievous bodily harm with intent for the attack.

[[Seiichi Ogawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Seiichi Ogawa (born 21 July 1970) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Gary O'Neil]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Bromley (London borough), Sportspeople from London, Premier League players

Gary O'Neil (born 18 May 1983) is an English football player. He plays for Middlesbrough.

[[Fuat Usta]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Turkish football managers, Turkish footballers

Fuat Usta (born 3 July 1972) is a Turkish football manager and former football player.

[[Ryu Saito]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Ryu Saito (born 18 September 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yuki Fukaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Yuki Fukaya (born 1 August 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.

[[Kaito Yamamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, Vissel Kobe players, JEF United Chiba players, Yokohama FC players, Roasso Kumamoto players, Fukushima United FC players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Kaito Yamamoto is a Japanese football player.

[[Keiji Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Keiji Watanabe (born 28 January 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[Takahiro Shibasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Takahiro Shibasaki (born 23 May 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo Verdy.

[[Takashi Amano]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Takashi Amano (born 13 April 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos.

[[Pluto]]

CATEGORIES: Pluto

Pluto is a dwarf planet in the Solar System. Its formal name is 134340 Pluto. The dwarf planet is the ninth largest body that moves around the Sun. At first, Pluto was called a planet. Now, it is the largest body in the Kuiper belt.

Like other members of the Kuiper belt, Pluto is mainly made of rock and ice. It is quite small. It is about a fifth (⅕) of the weight of the Earth's Moon. It is only a third (⅓) of its volume. Pluto is very far from the Sun, so its temperature is very low. The average temperature on Pluto is -223 degrees Celsius. It has an odd orbit and this orbit is very sloped. It takes Pluto to 30 to 49 AU (4.4–7.4 billion km) from the Sun. This causes Pluto to sometimes go closer to the Sun than Neptune.

Since it was discovered in 1930, Pluto was thought to be the Solar System's ninth planet. In the late 1970s, the minor planet 2060 Chiron was found and people learned that Pluto had a small size.

Later, in the early 21st century, the scattered disc object Eris and other objects like Pluto were discovered. Eris was initially believed to be 27% larger than Pluto, but was later found to be slightly smaller. On August 24, 2006, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) gave a definition to the word "planet" for the first time. By this definition, Pluto was not a planet anymore. It became a "dwarf planet" along with Eris and Ceres. After this, Pluto was put on the list of minor planets and was downgraded in 2006 by astronomer Michael E Brown. It was given the number 134340. A number of scientists continue to hold that Pluto should be classified as a planet.

[[Yuya Yoshizawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture

Yuya Yoshizawa (born 20 April 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kamatamare Sanuki.

[[Shota Arai]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Shota Arai (born 7 April 1985) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yuya Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Yuya Nakamura (born 14 April 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shonan Bellmare.

[[Alessandro Scarlatti]]

CATEGORIES: 1660 births, 1725 deaths, Baroque composers, Italian composers, People from Palermo

Alessandro Scarlatti (born Palermo, 2 May 1660; died 24 October 1725) was an Italian composer.  He lived in the Baroque period.  He is especially famous for his operas and chamber cantatas.  He is thought of as the founder of the Neapolitan school of opera.  He was the father of the famous composer Domenico Scarlatti.

[[Atsushi Yoshimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Atsushi Yoshimoto (born 14 January 1982) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takeshi Terada]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Takeshi Terada (born 21 March 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Fernando Navarro]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Barcelona

Fernando Navarro (born 25 June 1982) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Sevilla.

[[Akira Ishigame]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Akira Ishigame (born 20 May 1985) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Haruki Nishimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Haruki Nishimura (born 31 May 1987) is a Japanese football player.

[[Alison Barros Moraes]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alison Barros Moraes (born 30 June 1982) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Nobuhisa Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture

Nobuhisa Kobayashi (born 11 April 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagawa Printing.

[[Junya Tanaka (footballer, born 1983)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Junya Tanaka (born 24 April 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for HOYO Atletico ELAN Oita.

[[Gábor Csupó]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Hungarian people, Animators

Gábor Csupó (Csupó Gábor, tʃupoː ɡaːbɔr; born 29 September 1952) is a Hungarian-born animator and co-founder of the animation studio Klasky Csupo, which has produced shows like Rugrats, Duckman, and Aaahh!!! Real Monsters.

He was born in Budapest, Hungary, in 1952, and after four years at the Pannónia animation studios, fled to the West in 1975. While working in Sweden he met Arlene Klasky, an American-born animator. The two subsequently started their own company, Klasky Csupo, which produced many popular animated television shows. He was credited as "animation executive producer" and "supervising animation director" for several episodes of The Simpsons in the early seasons before the show switched over to Film Roman.

[[Katherine Paterson]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people

Katherine Paterson (born October 31, 1932) is a Newbery Award-winning American author of books for children. 

[[Bridge to Terabithia (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books, 1977 books, Fantasy books, Newbery Medal winning books

Bridge to Terabithia is a novel by Katherine Paterson.

[[Akira Takeuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Akira Takeuchi (born 18 June 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagoya Grampus Eight.

[[Kosuke Yamamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Kosuke Yamamoto (born 29 October 1989) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Júbilo Iwata.

[[Satoshi Hashida]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Satoshi Hashida (born 20 December 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kataller Toyama.

[[Shohei Abe]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Shohei Abe (born 1 December 1982) is a Japanese football player. He played for Nagoya Grampus Eight.

[[Takuya Muguruma]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Takuya Muguruma (born 13 June 1984) is a retired Japanese football player.

[[Takumi Wada]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Takumi Wada (born 20 October 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.

[[Shinji Kagawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Cerezo Osaka players, Manchester United F.C. players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, 2018 FIFA World Cup players, 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Shinji Kagawa is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tomohiro Tsuda]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Gifu Prefecture

Tomohiro Tsuda (born 6 May 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Hurricane Elena]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 in the United States, Category 3 Atlantic hurricanes, Hurricanes in the United States, 20th century in Cuba, 1980s in Florida, 20th century in Alabama, 20th century in Mississippi, 1980s in Louisiana

Hurricane Elena was a category 3 major hurricane that caused heavy damage along the Gulf Coast of the United States in August and September of the 1985 Atlantic hurricane season.

Elena's unusual path through the Gulf of Mexico, which included a loop, caused many people to evacuate from the coastline.

[[Wu-Tang Clan]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop bands, 1990s American music groups, 1992 establishments in New York (state)

Wu-Tang Clan is a hip-hop group from USA. They formed in Staten Island, New York in 1992. As a group, they debuted in 1993 with their first album Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers). GZA started the group.

[[MICR]]

CATEGORIES: Data input

The MICR is a device that can recognise human readable characters printed on documents such as cheques using a special magnetic ink. The reader reads these characters by examining their shapes. Characters are printed in a special font. Each character is formed by a 7 x 10 matrix. The MICR has a magnetic head which can detect the magnetic pattern for each character.

The abbreviation MICR stands for Magnetic Ink Character Recognition. This is a type of data input often found in banks. The bank account number and other details are printed onto bank cheques (USA - checks)in a special font with magnetic ink.

The magnetic characters can be read very quickly and accurately by MICR readers.

Numbers in a special MICR font

[[Computer law]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Computers

Many countries have created legislation or have passed laws about the use of computers and data.

These laws are usually concerned 

[[Dale Earnhardt Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Daytona 500 winners, People from Kannapolis, North Carolina, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from North Carolina

Ralph Dale Earnhardt, Jr. (born October 10, 1974) is an American racecar driver. Earnhardt last drove the #88 Chevrolet SS in the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series for Hendrick Motorsports. Earnhardt, Jr. won the 2004 Daytona 500 with Dale Earnhardt, Inc.. Earnhardt is the son of the seven time Sprint cup champion Dale Earnhardt.

[[Aigle Azur]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of France

Aigle Azur is an airline in France which operates flights within France but also to other European countries and some countries in Africa, for example Algeria. It's main base of operations is at Paris Orly Airport.

The current Head, since 2008, is Méziane Idjerouidène.

[[TAAG Air Angola]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Africa

TAAG Air Angola is the main airline of Angola, a country in Africa. The TAAG stands for Transportadora Aérea AnGolana. which is Portuguese for Angolan Air Transport. TAAG's main base of operations is in Luanda International Airport, in the capital of Angola. TAAG is unlike many other African airlines as it is a very successful airline making a lot of money, most other airlines in the region do not make profits.

[[Sarcoidosis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Sarcoidosis is a granulomatous disorder that can affect multiple organs. The lungs are affected most often. The cause is not known. Corticosteroids such as prednisone are often used to treat sarcoidosis. In some cases, the immuosuppressive drug methotrexate may be also used. Antimalarial drugs have also been used.

Sarcoidosis may involve the brain. If it does, it is called neurosarcoidosis. In some cases, pulmonary fibrosis is a complication of sarcoidosis.

[[Neurosarcoidosis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Neurosarcoidosis is sarcoidosis in the brain. It can be treated with Corticosteroids including Prednisone.

[[Prednisone]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Prednisone is a corticosteroid. It can be used to treat sarcoidosis, autoimmune disease, and a variety of other conditions. 

[[Europe Airpost]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of France

Europe Airpost is a cargo airline based in Paris, France. They fly mail and cargo around as needed. Their main base of operations is at Paris-Charles de Gaulle Airport but they also have a base in Tangier Airport in Morocco. Most of their flights are within Europe but they also fly to the north of Africa.

[[Corsairfly]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of France, 1981 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in France

Corsair International is a French airline based at Orly Airport. They are the second largest airline in France and fly mainly holiday flights.

[[Italian irredentism in Istria]]

CATEGORIES: History of Italy

Italian irredentism in Istria was the political movement dedicated to the unification of Istria to Italy.

[[Perestroika]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s in the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, 1986 establishments, 1980s establishments in the Soviet Union

Perestroika, which means "restructuring" in the Russian language, was a series of changes to the economy of the Soviet Union. Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev started it in 1986. This happened only a few years before the Soviet Union fell apart into 15 countries. Many historians argue that it was a major reason that the Soviet Union fell apart. It happened at about the same time as Gorbachev's "glasnost" reforms, which made what the government did not as much of a secret.

The Soviet Union was a communist country. The government controlled the economy. People did not own their own land or businesses. Under perestroika, some people could even start to own their own businesses. Gorbachev wanted perestroika to help out the Soviet economy, which had been having problems. However, in the end, it could not save the country's economy.

[[Henri Verneuil]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2002 deaths, French movie directors, Armenian movie directors

Henri Verneuil (born Ashot Malaqian 15 October 1920, Rodosto, Turkey - 11 January 2002, Bagnolet, France) was a famous French-Armenian movie director, playwright and moviemaker.

[[Armen Dzhigarkhanyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Russian movie actors, Russian stage actors, Russian television actors, Armenian actors

Armen Dzhigarkhanyan (Armenian: Արմեն Ջիգարխանյան, Russian: Арме́н Бори́сович Джигарханя́н; 3 October 1935 – 14 November 2020) was one of the most popular Soviet and Armenian  actors. He was born on October 3, 1935, in Yerevan, Armenian SSR, USSR.

He has appeared in 254 movies, including his 1981 leading role as Nazi Max Richard in Teheran 43. He acted in his first movie aged 25 in 1960.

Dzhigarkhanyan was given the title of People's Artist of the USSR in 1985.

In April 2018 he again was hospitalized after a heart attack and fell into a coma.

Dzhigarkhanyan died in Moscow on November 14, 2020. The cause of death was cardiac arrest due to kidney failure.

[[Gettysburg, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Pennsylvania, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, Boroughs in Pennsylvania

Gettysburg is a borough in and the county seat of Adams County, Pennsylvania, United States. There were about 7,490 people at the 2000 United States census (counting of the people).

It is known mostly because it is near to where the Battle of Gettysburg was held.  Lincoln gave the Gettysburg Address at Gettysburg.  It is seen as one of the most historic sites in American history.  Dwight Eisenhower lived at Gettysburg in his later years.

However, it is also known for the Lutheran Theological Seminary, founded in 1826, Gettysburg College (originally Pennsylvania College), which began operating in 1832, and

Harrisburg Area Community College.

Many roads come from Gettysburg.  It is at the junction of U.S. Route 15, U.S. Route 30 (the Lincoln Highway). Today it is a 2½ hour drive from Philadelphia. It is also a 3½ hour drive from Pittsburgh by the Pennsylvania Turnpike and U.S. Route 15. Gettysburg Regional Airport, a small general aviation airport, is 2 west of Gettysburg. Gettysburg has weather that changes from around 20 in the winter months to almost 100 in the summer.

[[Gettysburg National Cemetery]]

CATEGORIES: Cemeteries in the United States, National cemeteries, Military monuments and memorials in the United States, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, 1863 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Pennsylvania

Gettysburg National Cemetery is on Cemetery Hill in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. A short time after the Battle of Gettysburg the place was bought. The Union dead were moved from shallow (not deep) burial places on the battlefield to the cemetery. It was supported by Pennsylvania Governor Andrew Curtin. The local attorney David Wills was the person who mostly bought the land, managed the building of the cemetery, and planned its ceremony. However, the basic concept and early organizing efforts were led by rival lawyer David McConaughy. The landscape architect William Saunders designed the cemetery. It was called the Soldiers' National Cemetery at Gettysburg at first.

It was dedicated on November 19, 1863. Edward Everett spoke at the ceremony.  Abraham Lincoln followed with the shorter but much more famous Gettysburg Address.

3,512 Union soldiers were buried in the cemetery. 979 are unknown.

[[Atsushi Ito]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Atsushi Ito (born 24 September 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hibiki Kato]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Gifu Prefecture

Hibiki Kato (born 14 November 1987) used to be a Japanese football player.

[[Tomoya Kumagai]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Akita Prefecture

Tomoya Kumagai (born 25 March 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for V-Varen Nagasaki.

[[M&Ms]]

CATEGORIES: Candy

M&Ms are round chocolates with an “m” printed on each one. They are available in many different colors.  These colors are green, yellow, blue, red, brown, and orange.  They also come in different flavors such as milk chocolate, dark chocolate, mint chocolate, peanuts, almonds, orange chocolate, coconut, and peanut butter. M&Ms have also been included in many other candy products.  

[[Kyohei Horikawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Kyohei Horikawa (born 18 September 1986) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Mitsuki Ichihara]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Mitsuki Ichihara (born 31 January 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Albirex Niigata Singapore.

[[Yusuke Kawabuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Yusuke Kawabuchi (born 21 April 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for NEC TOKIN.

[[Kosuke Nakahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Kosuke Nakahara (born 13 March 1987) is a Japanese football player.

[[Taisuke Matsugae]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagawa Prefecture

Taisuke Matsugae is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Ken Matsumoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Ken Matsumoto (born 28 August 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Albirex Niigata Singapore.

[[Reiichi Ikegami]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Reiichi Ikegami (born 12 July 1983) is a Japanese football player.

[[Taishi Endo]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Taishi Endo (born 31 March 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sony Sendai.

[[Rychely]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Rychely (born 6 August 1987) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Bahia.

[[Yuki Uekusa]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Yuki Uekusa (born 2 July 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.

[[Tatsuya Suzuki (born in 1988)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Tatsuya Suzuki (born 29 February 1988) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koji Nishimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Koji Nishimura (born 7 July 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagoya Grampus Eight.

[[Takuya Honda]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, Shimizu S-Pulse players, Kashima Antlers players, Montedio Yamagata players, FC Gifu players, Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics

Takuya Honda is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Wataru Inoue]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Wataru Inoue (born 7 August 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Art game]]

CATEGORIES: Types of video games, Video game genres

An art game is a video game where art is very important and sometimes is the main point. Other times, the main point is to make people think. Most of the time, art games look very new and artistic.

[[Yasuhiro Hiraoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yasuhiro Hiraoka is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Yohei Takeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Yohei Takeda (born 30 June 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.

[[Josimar Rodrigues Souza Roberto]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Josimar Rodrigues Souza Roberto (born 16 August 1987) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Yuji Kimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yuji Kimura (born 5 October 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kawasaki Frontale.

[[Yuji Yabu]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Yuji Yabu (born 24 May 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.

[[Drift mining]]

CATEGORIES: Mining

Drift mining is a way of mining where tunnels are dug horizontally. It was used by the coal industry in the 1700s. It would follow a coal seam into a hillside. It was not very safe which is why it wasn't used much. It was not safe because water could easily get in.

[[Yuki Fuji]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Yuki Fuji is a Japanese football player.

[[2009–10 New Jersey Devils season]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in ice hockey, 2010 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2009 in the United States, 2010 in the United States, 21st century in New Jersey

The 2009–10 New Jersey Devils season is the team's 27th season in the National Hockey League since the franchise relocated to New Jersey. 

[[2009–10 Calgary Flames season]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in ice hockey, 2010 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2009 in Canada, 2010 in Canada

The 2009–10 Calgary Flames season is the team's 29th season in the National Hockey League since the franchise relocated to Calgary.

[[Cosmic ray]]

CATEGORIES: Astrophysics, Nuclear physics

Cosmic rays are very high-energy radiation, mostly from outside the Solar System.

The term ray is a historical accident, as cosmic rays were at first, and wrongly, thought to be mostly electromagnetic radiation.

They are particles. Most are protons and alpha particles, which are the nuclei of helium atoms. Some are electrons (beta particles), gamma rays or photons and a tiny fraction are even heavier particles.

[[Cyclophosphamide]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Cancer treatment

 Cyclophosphamide is a drug used in the treatment of lymphoma, some types of leukemia, and some solid cancers, as well as for some forms of Nephritis, Rheumatoid arthritis, and multiple sclerosis.

[[Eilat]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns, Ports and harbours of Israel, Eilat

Eilat, Hebrew: אילת , is a city in the most southern part of Israel. About 50,000 people were living in this city in 2015.

Eilat is at the southern end of the Negev Desert and the northern end of the Gulf of Aqaba or Gulf of Eilat on the Red Sea. It is an important port for Israel. Ships bring many products to Israel from the Far East and other places here.

Eilat also hosts an airport, called Eilat Airport.

Many tourists from Israel and other countries visit Eilat to enjoy the desert views, beaches and all-year warm weather. The temperature can easily reach more than 40 °C (104 °F) in summer and 21 °C (70 °F) in winter. The sea water is between 20 and 26 °C (68 and 79 °F). Coral reefs grow in the sea near Eilat and people can see them by scuba diving or from an underwater observatory (Coral World Underwater Observatory). Kings City is an amusement park in Eilat.

[[Edwin H. Land]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1991 deaths, American physicists, Scientists from Connecticut

Edwin H. Land (1909 - 1991) was an American physicist and inventor.

In 1932, he discovered a cheap and easy way to polarize light. In 1937 he set up the Polaroid Corporation to make scientific instruments and anti-glare sunglasses. In 1947 he developed the Polaroid camera. It could print photographs without needing film.

[[San Francisco de Mostazal, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile, Settlements in the Region of O'Higgins

Mostazal is a Chilean commune in the Province of Cachapoal, Region of O'Higgins. According to the census of 2002, the population of the commune was 21,866 and it has an area of 523.9.

[[Retarder]]

CATEGORIES: Trains

In rail transport, a retarder is a device put in a classification yard used to slow down the speed of freight cars as they are sorted into trains. Each retarder has a series of stationary brakes around a short section of each rail on the track that hold and slow the cars' wheels through friction as they roll through them. Modern retarders are computer worked to have the perfect amount of pressure on the wheels so that cars rolling down a yard's hump are slowed to a safe speed for coupling with cars already standing on the yard's tracks.

[[Janeite]]

CATEGORIES: Jane Austen

The word Janeite has been used by people who love the works of Jane Austen. However, it can also be used to show disapproval. Claudia Johnson says that Janeitism is "the self-consciously idolatrous enthusiasm (love) for 'Jane' and every detail relative to her (about her)".

Janeitism did not begin until after J. E. Austen-Leigh published A Memoir of Jane Austen in 1870. When this was published, Jane Austen became much more popular. This worried the literary elite. They felt they had to separate their liking of Austen from the "masses". The word Janeite was first begun by the literary scholar George Saintsbury in his 1894 introduction to a new edition of Pride and Prejudice. Austen scholar Deidre Lynch explains, "he meant to equip himself with a badge of honor he could jubilantly (triumphantly, happily) pin". In the early twentieth century, Janeitism was "principally (mostly) a male enthusiasm shared among publishers, professors, and literati". Rudyard Kipling even printed a short story called "Janeites" about a group of World War I soldiers who were fans of Austen's novels.

In the 1930s and 1940s,Austen's works were accepted at school, and the word began to change its meaning. It began to mean the people who liked Austen in the "wrong" way. The word, according to Lynch, is now "used ... about and against other people".

[[Sleep (operating system)]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

When a computer is asleep, it is not running. However, programs that were running when the computer "went to sleep" are not shut down. When the computer wakes up, the programs come back to where they were before the sleep.

[[2008–09 Calgary Flames season]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in ice hockey, 2009 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2008 in Canada, 2009 in Canada

The 2008-09 Calgary Flames season is the team's 28th season in the National Hockey League since the franchise relocated to Calgary.

[[2007–08 Calgary Flames season]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in ice hockey, 2008 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2007 in Canada, 2008 in Canada

The 2007-08 Calgary Flames season is the team's 27th season in the National Hockey League since the franchise relocated to Calgary.

[[Histone]]

CATEGORIES: Molecular biology, Cell biology

Histones are proteins found in eukaryotic cell nuclei, which package the DNA into structural units called nucleosomes. They are the chief protein components of chromatin, the active component of chromosomes. 

Histones act as spools around which DNA winds, and play a role in gene regulation. Without histones, the unwound DNA in chromosomes would be very long. For example, each human cell has about 1.8 meters of DNA, but wound on the histones it has about 90 millimeters of chromatin, which, when duplicated and condensed during mitosis, result in about 120 micrometers of chromosomes.

[[Yūsuke Tanaka]]

Yūsuke Tanaka can refer to:

[[Satoshi Hida]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Satoshi Hida (born 18 April 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Albirex Niigata Singapore.

[[Masato Okubo]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Masato Okubo (born 17 April 1986) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Mitsumasa Yoda]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Mitsumasa Yoda (born 7 August 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Óscar López Hernández]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Óscar López Hernández (born 11 May 1980) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Numancia Soria.

[[Heurelho Gomes]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Heurelho Gomes (born 15 February 1981) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Tottenham Hotspur.

[[Alex Rodrigo Dias da Costa]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alex Rodrigo Dias da Costa (born 17 June 1982) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Chelsea.

[[Helton da Silva Arruda]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian association football goalkeepers

Helton da Silva Arruda (born 18 May 1978) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Porto.

[[Carlo Mazzone]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Italian footballers, Sportspeople from Rome

Carlo Mazzone (born 19 March 1937) is a former Italian football player.

[[Yuji Goto]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Gifu Prefecture

Yuji Goto (born 20 August 1985) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yūsuke Tanaka (born in April 1986)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yūsuke Tanaka (born 14 April 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos.

[[Jonathan de Guzmán]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Naturalised citizens of the Netherlands, Sportspeople from Toronto

Jonathan de Guzmán (born 12 September 1987) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Feyenoord Rotterdam.

[[Jiro Kamata]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Jiro Kamata (born 28 July 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vegalta Sendai.

[[Kengo Ishii]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Kengo Ishii is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football player.

[[Taku Akahoshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Taku Akahoshi (born 21 April 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagan Tosu.

[[Substrate (biochemistry)]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

In biochemistry, a substrate is the molecule acted on by an enzyme to produce a product.p37

The general equation for an enzyme reaction is:

An example: Sucrase, 400 times the size of its substrate sucrose, splits the sucrose into its constituent sugars, which are glucose and fructose. The sucrase bends the sucrose, and strains the bond between the glucose and fructose. Water molecules join in and make the cleavage in a fraction of a second.

[[Maciej Rataj]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Poland, 1884 births, 1940 deaths, Activists, Legislative speakers, Murder victims

Maciej Rataj (born 19 February 1884 - died 21 June 1940) was a Polish politician of peasants movement. He was Speaker of the Parliament (Sejm). He was Acting President of Poland twice.

Rataj was an independence and peasant activist before Poland regained an independence in 1918. He became Member of Sejm in 1918. He was elected Speaker in the first regular term and held that post from 1922 to 1928. Previously, he was Minister for Religious Affairs in Wincenty Witos cabinet.

He was Acting President twice: from 16 December to 22 December 1922 and from 15 May to June 4 1926. For the first time he served between assassination of Poland's first President Gabriel Narutowicz and election of his successor Stanisław Wojciechowski. For the second, between Wojciechowski resignation after a May coup and election of Ignacy Mościcki.

After outbreak of the World War II, Rataj remained in occupied Poland and was murdered, along other prominent citizens, by Nazis in Palmiry.

[[Fatty acid]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Biochemistry

A fatty acid is a carboxylic acid (-C(=O)OH), with a long unbranched hydrocarbon tail. It is studied in organic chemistry and biochemistry. 

Fatty acids are important sources of body fuel. When metabolized, they yield large quantities of ATP. Many cell types can use either glucose or fatty acids for this purpose. In particular, heart and skeletal muscle prefer fatty acids. 

Fatty acids may be either saturated or unsaturated. Unsaturated compounds have reactive double bonds; saturated ones do not.

Fatty acids are aliphatic monocarboxylic acids derived from, or contained in, an animal or vegetable fat, oil, or wax. Natural fatty acids commonly have a chain of four to 28 carbon atoms (usually unbranched and even numbered), which may be saturated or unsaturated. This would include acetic acid, although this is not usually considered a fatty acid (not a lipid). 

The blend of fatty acids in mammalian skin, together with lactic acid and pyruvic acid, are  distinctive. They allow animals with a keen sense of smell to identify individuals.

[[Repetitive strain injury]]

CATEGORIES: Disability

Repetitive strain injury (RSI), also known as occupational overuse syndrome, is a medical condition.  It causes pain in the muscles,  nerves, or tendons after a person uses the same part of the body over and over again, or without taking breaks. It is usually caused by doing the same thing repeatedly or without breaks.  Using a computer or mobile for long periods of time is a common cause of this problem.

Repetitive strain injury is described as a sudden, intense pain in affected parts of the body, often the wrists, neck, back or hands, that keeps coming back. It is different from more specific diagnoses, because there are many possible causes for RSI. The pain is often spread across different muscle groups and inspection of the affected area usually cannot show any differences from that of a healthy person.  Because of this, treatment for RSI is usually limited to rest and exercises, and sometimes wearing a brace.

[[Debt consolidation]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Debt consolidation involves taking out a loan to pay off multiple loans. This is usually done to secure a lower interest rate and for the convenience of paying only one loan.

Debt consolidation usually entails taking a secured loan against an asset, such as a house, and using this to pay off higher-interest unsecured loans and credit card debts. However this puts the individuals assets at risk if they do not keep up payment.

Sometimes, debt consolidation companies will discount the amount of the loan. When the debtor is in danger of bankruptcy, the debt consolidator will buy the loan at a discount. A prudent debtor can shop around for consolidators who will pass along some of the savings. Consolidation can affect the ability of the debtor to discharge debts in bankruptcy, so the decision to consolidate must be weighed carefully.

[[Prognosis]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

Prognosis refers to the expected course/outcome of a disease.

[[Nephrectomy]]

CATEGORIES: Surgery

Nephrectomy is the surgical removal of a kidney. It is commonly performed in patients with Renal cell carcinoma or other forms of Kidney cancer.

[[Prostatectomy]]

CATEGORIES: Surgery, Cancer treatment

Prostatectomy is the surgical removal of part or all of the prostate. It is often used in the treatment of inability to urinate or of prostate cancer. Patients who are having a prostatectomy can expect to stay in the hospital for two to four days. A tube called a catheter is usually left in the patient's bladder for two or three weeks, which can result in the patient having problems controlling his bladder for awhile.

[[Interleukin-2]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer treatment

Interleukin-2 is a form of Interleukin. It is important in medicine because it is an effective treatment for metastatic renal cell carcinoma and Metastatic melanoma. It can produce up to a 16% response rate in patients with Metastatic melanoma. and a slightly lower 15% response rate in metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

[[Lymphoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Immunology, Lymphatic system

Lymphoma is a cancer of the lymphatic system. There are many types of lymphoma, including Hodgkin's lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, primary central nervous system lymphoma, the B-cell lymphoma, and the hepatosplenic lymphoma. 

[[Primary central nervous system lymphoma]]

CATEGORIES: Brain tumors, Nervous system

Primary central nervous system lymphoma is a form of Lymphoma affecting the Central nervous system. It is more common in those with weak immune systems, such as those with AIDS.

[[Kya Dark Lineage]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 2-only games, 2003 video games

Kya Dark Lineage is an action adventure game for the PlayStation 2.

Kya Dark Lineage is about a girl named Kya. Kya gets thrown into another world with her brother Frank. Kya ends up helping creatures called Nativs. Nativs are little cat people. The Nativs are being attacked by Brazul, Kya's father who has powerful magic and turns Nativs into creatures called Wolfun. Wolfun are bad, Kya can fight Wolfun and defeat them. She can also turn them back into Nativs.

Kya goes on a mission to save her brother Frank who was captured by Brazul, fight Wolfun and turn them back into Nativs, beat up Brazul and find a way back home.

In America, Wolfun is Wolfen.

[[2008–09 Nashville Predators season]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in ice hockey, 2009 in ice hockey, Nashville Predators, National Hockey League team seasons, 2008 in the United States, 2009 in the United States, 2000s in Nashville, Tennessee

The 2008–09 season is the Nashville Predators' tenth season in the National Hockey League.

[[2007–08 Nashville Predators season]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in ice hockey, 2008 in ice hockey, Nashville Predators, National Hockey League team seasons, 2007 in the United States, 2008 in the United States, 2000s in Nashville, Tennessee

The 2007–08 season is the Nashville Predators' ninth season in the National Hockey League.

[[Darci Sprotte Neto]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Darci Sprotte Neto (born 25 March 1987) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Daisuke Aono]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Daisuke Aono (born 19 September 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kosei Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Kosei Nakamura (born 5 April 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Akihiro Kurihara]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Gunma Prefecture

Akihiro Kurihara (born 2 May 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagano Parceiro.

[[Yudai Suwa]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Yudai Suwa (born 5 May 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagano Parceiro.

[[Yuki Sakai (footballer, born 1985)]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture

Yuki Sakai (born 28 June 1985) is a retired Japanese football player.

[[Shunichiro Zaitsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Shunichiro Zaitsu (born 23 January 1987) is a Japanese football player.

[[Olivier Dacourt]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, French footballers

Olivier Dacourt (born 25 September 1974) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Andranik Eskandarian]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Iranian footballers, Sportspeople from Tehran

Andranik Eskandarian (born 31 December 1951) is a former Iranian football player. He has played for Iran national team.

[[Hironobu Haga]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyagi Prefecture

Hironobu Haga (born 21 December 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Consadole Sapporo.

[[Shinji Tsujio]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Shinji Tsujio (born 23 December 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.

[[Yuya Hikichi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Yuya Hikichi (born 2 May 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Yusuke Inuzuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yusuke Inuzuka is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Kazunori Yoshimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Kazunori Yoshimoto (born 24 April 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gifu.

[[Farnborough, Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hampshire

thumb|220px| Farnborough Railway Station in 1914Farnborough is a town in northeast Hampshire, England. The town is best known for the Farnborough Airshow which takes place every two years.

[[List of chemistry topics]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry lists

This is a list of some of the articles related to chemistry.

[[Late Heavy Bombardment]]

CATEGORIES: Moon, Earth, Impact craters, Hadean, Impact events

The Late Heavy Bombardment (LHB) or lunar cataclysm, is a period of time about 4.1 to 3.8 billion years ago. During this time, a large number of impact craters formed on the Moon. By inference the same thing happened on Earth, Mercury, Venus, and Mars as well.

The evidence for this event comes from the dating of lunar samples, which indicates that most impact melt rocks formed at that time. Many hypotheses have been suggested to explain how asteroidal or cometary material got into the inner solar system, but no consensus yet exists. One popular theory is that the gas giant planets migrated in orbit at this time, causing objects in the asteroid belt and/or Kuiper belt to be forced into orbits which reached the terrestrial planets. 

Some think that the apparent clustering of impact melt ages near this time is an artifact of sampling.

[[2008–09 Boston Bruins season]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League team seasons, 2008 in ice hockey, 2009 in ice hockey, 2008 in Massachusetts, 2009 in the United States, 2000s in Boston, Massachusetts

The 2008–09 Boston Bruins season is the Bruins' 84th season in the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[2007–08 Boston Bruins season]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in ice hockey, 2008 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2007 in Massachusetts, 2008 in Massachusetts, 2000s in Boston, Massachusetts

The 2007–08 Boston Bruins season is the Bruins' 83th season in the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Rover 75]]

CATEGORIES: Rover automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Rover 75 is a car produced by Rover from 1999 to 2005. The 75 replaced both the 600 and the 800 Series.

It shares many components with the E46 BMW 3 Series, and were available with a 4-cylinder 1.8 litre petrol engine, 6-cylinder 2.0 and 2.5 litre petrol engines, a 8-cylinder 4.6 litre petrol engine and 4-cylinder 2.0 litre turbodiesel engines.

The 75 was available in both 4-door saloon and 5-door station wagon bodystyles, the latter was added in 2001 alongside sporty MG models. It had a facelift in early 2004. 

[[Brain tumor]]

CATEGORIES: Brain tumors, Cancer

A brain tumor is any tumor in the brain. Tumors may be benign or malignant.

[[The Black Cat]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American short stories, Short stories by Edgar Allan Poe

"The Black Cat" is a short story by Edgar Allen Poe. It was first published in August 1843 in The Saturday Evening Post. In the story, a murderer tries to hide his crime. In the end, his guilt makes him admit the crime. Peter Lorre starred in a Roger Corman movie based on the story.

[[Benzodiazepine]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Drugs used in psychiatry

Benzodiazepines are organic chemical substances, made of two carbon rings. Certain benzodiazepines can be used as drugs that increase the effect of the neurotransmitter GABA. The resulting drug has sedative effects. Depending on the drug, the effect may be stronger or weaker. The first benzodiazepine, chlordiazepoxide (Librium), was discovered accidentally by Leo Sternbach in 1955, and made available in 1960 by the medicine company Hoffmann–La Roche.

In general taking benzodiazepines is safe and effective in the short term. Longer term use is controversial: In the long term, the drug may become less effective and problems of dependency may show. 

Benzodiazepines may not be safe to be taken during pregnancy. They are not teratogens, which cause birth defects, but they may cause cleft palate in a small number of babies. Benzodiazepines can be taken in overdoses and can cause dangerous deep unconsciousness. However, they are much less toxic than the drugs they replaced, the barbiturates. Death rarely results when a benzodiazepine is the only drug taken. When combined with other central nervous system depressants such as alcohol and opiates, the potential for toxicity increases. Benzodiazepines are commonly misused and taken in combination with other drugs of abuse.

[[Bacterial meningitis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria

Bacterial meningitis is meningitis caused by bacteria. It is almost always fatal without antibiotics.

[[Viral meningitis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses, Diseases and disorders of the brain

Viral meningitis is an infection of the brain that is caused by a virus. It is usually caused by enteroviruses. Viral meningitis is not so dangerous as meningitis that is caused by bacteria and the symptoms are often mild or similar to flu. This disease occurs mainly in the summer. Children get this infection more than adults. Children usually recover completely after a two weeks. Strong medicines are often not needed.

[[Multiple myeloma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Blood

Multiple myeloma is a type of cancer involving the plasma cells. Some symptoms of the multiple myeloma are bone pain, renal failure, recurring infections and anemia. It is treated with chemotherapy. A commonly used chemotherapy regimen is the Vincristine, Adriamycin, and Dexamethasone. Thalidomides, velcades, melphalans, prednisones and interferons have also been used.

[[Edward Everett]]

CATEGORIES: 1794 births, 1865 deaths, Whig party (US) politicians, Governors of Massachusetts, United States senators from Massachusetts, United States representatives from Massachusetts, Harvard University faculty

Edward Everett (April 11, 1794– January 15, 1865) was an American politician, religious leader and educator from Massachusetts. He was a Whig. He served as U.S. Representative, and U.S. Senator, the 15th Governor of Massachusetts, Minister to Great Britain, and United States Secretary of State. He also taught at Harvard University and was as president of Harvard.  He was the Vice-Presidential candidate of the Constitutional Union Party in 1860.  He gave a long speech at Gettysburg right before Abraham Lincoln.

When Abraham Lincoln became president, the Civil War broke out. Everett had been calmer about slavery, but he was a strong Unionist. He worked hard to raise support for the Union through speaking in public. In November 1863, when the military cemetery at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania was dedicated, Everett was the main speaker. His two-hour speech was before the much shorter, but now more famous Gettysburg Address by President Lincoln. Everett was moved by the short speech and wrote to Lincoln, "I should be glad if I could flatter myself that I came as near to the central idea of the occasion, in two hours, as you did in two minutes."

[[NBA draft]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association

The NBA draft happens every year in June. It is where teams in the National Basketball Association (NBA) choose players who have never played in the NBA before. If a team chooses a player, that player cannot sign a contract to play for any teams other than that team.

[[Radiometric dating]]

CATEGORIES: Radiometric dating

Radiometric dating (often called radioactive dating) is a way to find out how old something is. The method compares the amount of a naturally occurring radioactive isotope and its decay products, in samples. The method uses known decay rates. It is the most used method of geochronology, the main way to learn the age of rocks and other geological features, including the age of the Earth itself. 

It is used to date many kinds of natural and man-made materials. Fossils may be dated by taking samples of rocks from above and below the fossil's original position. Radiometric dating is also used to date archaeological materials, including ancient artifacts.

Radiometric dating methods are used to establish the geological time scale. Among the best-known techniques are radiocarbon dating, potassium-argon dating and uranium-lead dating.

[[Gerard López]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Gerard López (born 12 March 1979) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Girona.

[[Tatsuya Okamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Tatsuya Okamoto is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player.

[[Takashi Fujii]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture, Blaublitz Akita players

Takashi Fujii (born 28 April 1986) is a Japanese football player. He has played for Sun Hei and is currently playing for Unsommet Iwate Hachimantai.

[[Go Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Gifu Prefecture

Go Nakamura (born 29 November 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gifu (reserve team).

[[Toru Morino]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Toru Morino (born 12 May 1987) is a Japanese football player.

[[Noboru Kohara]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Noboru Kohara (born 22 July 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Sho Kamogawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Oita Prefecture

Sho Kamogawa (born 7 February 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for HOYO Atletico ELAN Oita.

[[Yusuke Sudo]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yusuke Sudo (born 7 May 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Matsumoto Yamaga.

[[Shingo Wada]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Shingo Wada (born 7 August 1987) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tomoyasu Naito]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Tomoyasu Naito (born 11 September 1986) is a Japanese football player. He has played for Fukushima United.

[[Ryota Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokushima Prefecture

Ryota Takahashi  is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[K–Ar dating]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeology, Radiometric dating

Potassium–Argon dating or K–Ar dating is a radiometric dating method used in geochronology and archaeology. It is based on measurement of the product of the radioactive decay of an isotope of potassium (K) into argon (Ar).

Potassium is a common element found in many materials, such as micas, clay, tephra, and evaporites. In these materials, the decay product 40Ar is able to escape the liquid (molten) rock, but starts to build up when the rock solidifies (recrystallises). Time since recrystallization is calculated by measuring the ratio of the amount of 40Ar to the amount of 40K remaining. The long half-life of 40K is more than a billion years, so the method is used to calculate the absolute age of samples older than a few thousand years.

Quickly cooled lavas make nearly ideal samples for K–Ar dating. They also preserve a record of the direction and intensity of the local magnetic field at that time. The geomagnetic polarity time scale was calibrated largely using K–Ar dating.

[[Ivan Leko]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Croatian footballers, Croatian football managers, People from Split

Ivan Leko (born 7 February 1978) is a Croatian football manager and former player. He has played for Croatia national team.

[[Jerko Leko]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Croatian footballers, Sportspeople from Zagreb

Jerko Leko (born 9 April 1980) is a Croatian football player. He plays for Monaco and Croatia national team.

[[Uranium-lead dating]]

CATEGORIES: Radiometric dating

Uranium-lead is one of the oldest and most refined of the radiometric dating schemes. 

It can be used over an age range of about 1 million years to over 4.5 billion years. Precision is in the 0.1-1 percent range. 

The method relies on two separate decay chains, the uranium series from 238U to 206Pb, with a half-life of 4.47 billion years and the actinium series from 235U to 207Pb, with a half-life of 704 million years.

The existence of two 'parallel' uranium-lead decay routes allows several dating techniques within the overall U-Pb system. 

The term 'U-Pb dating' normally implies the coupled use of both decay schemes. However, use of a single decay scheme (usually 238U to 206Pb) leads to the U-Pb isochron dating method, analogous to the rubidium-strontium dating method. 

Finally, ages can also be determined from the U-Pb system by analysis of Pb isotope ratios alone. This is termed the lead-lead dating method. Clair Cameron Patterson, an American geochemist who pioneered studies of uranium-lead radiometric dating methods, is famous for having used it to obtain one of the earliest accurate estimates of the age of the Earth.

[[Daigo Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Daigo Watanabe (born 3 December 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kyoto Sanga. He has 2 younger brothers, Kazuma Watanabe and Mitsuki Watanabe, who are both footballers.

[[Genki Nagasato]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Avispa Fukuoka players

Genki Nagasato is a Japanese professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player.

[[Pedro Cea]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1970 deaths, Uruguayan footballers, Uruguayan football managers, Sportspeople from Montevideo

Pedro Cea (1 September 1900 – 8 September 1970) is a former Uruguayan football player. He has played for Uruguay national team.

[[Masato Yamazaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Masato Yamazaki (born 4 December 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sanfrecce Hiroshima.

[[Mälaren]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Sweden

Lake Mälaren is the third largest lake in Sweden after Lakes Vänern and Vättern. Its surface area is 1,140 km², its average depth is 12 meters and its greatest depth is 64 m. The lake drains, from southwest to northeast, into the Baltic Sea. The two largest islands in Mälaren are Selaön (91 km²) and Svartsjölandet (79 km²). The lake was previously known as Løgrinn. The Viking settlements Birka on the island of Björkö and Hovgården on the neighbouring island Adelsö have been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1993, as has Drottningholm Palace on the island of Lovön.right|thumb|180px|Location map

[[Game Maker]]

Game Maker is a computer program for the Windows operating system. It was first made by Mark Overmars, but it is now made by the company YoYo Games.

Game Maker lets people make computer games without knowing a computer programming language. People who know how to use programming languages can use Game Maker's own programming language, called Game Maker Language.

The newest version is Game Maker Studio. Since the first version made in 1999, Game Maker was given many new features. One of these features is 3-D graphics.

Game Maker has a drag-and-drop interface. This lets people make games using mostly the computer mouse. Game Maker uses icons that tell the person what actions they can do. People can make simple games by moving these icons into a given order. More detailed games can be made when Game Maker Language is used.

Game Maker has an internet community and website. There, people who use Game Maker can put their games up for others to play. People can also get help on using Game Maker from other people.

[[Cadbury Creme Egg]]

CATEGORIES: Candy

A Cadbury Creme Egg is a type of candy made by Cadbury. It is a chocolate egg with a fondant centre.

[[Bevacizumab]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer treatment

Bevacizumab is an anti-angiogenic drug that is used in the treatment of Metastatic Renal cell carcinoma, Metastatic breast cancer, Non-small cell lung cancer, and is also approved in the treatment Glioblastoma multiforme.

[[Metastatic breast cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Torso

Metastatic breast cancer is Breast cancer that has spread beyond the primary tumor. It is incurable, but may be treated with radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and Hormonal therapy including Tamoxifen. Recently Bevacizumab was approved for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer, along with Paclitaxel. Zometa is effective in treatment if the patient has Bone metastases.

[[Bone metastasis]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Diseases and disorders of bones

Bone metastases are when a cancer spreads to the bones. This is called metastasis. People with breast and prostate cancer have more bone metastases than other cancers. However, almost any other cancer can spread to the bone. 

[[Hypercalcemia]]

CATEGORIES: Medical signs

Hypercalcemia is too much calcium in the body. It is usually caused by either cancer or parathyroid disease. If hypercalcemia is severe, it may cause changes in mental status. Other symptoms can include nausea, abdominal pain, constipation, and thirst.

Hypercalcemia can be asscociated with Sarcoidosis or Tuberculosis.

[[Eoghan Quigg]]

CATEGORIES: British pop musicians, 1992 births, Living people

Eoghan Quigg (12 July 1992) is a pop singer based in the United Kingdom and Ireland. He has been active since 2008 when he was a contestent on The X Factor where he finished in third place. In Ireland he has had a number 1 album called Eoghan Quigg. Quigg was going to be signed by Simon Cowell, CEO of Syco Records, but was instead signed to RCA.

[[Imhotep]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Egypt

Imhotep was a high priest and a doctor in ancient Egypt. Imhotep also became famous as an architect. After his death, because of his attachment with the god Ptah during his work at Ptah's temple stories were spread that said that Ptah was his father. As a god he was often pictured seated, wearing a long kilt robe and a skull cap or a shaven head. He had a papyrus scroll spread on his lap to show his scholarly nature and scribal assistance. 

[[Ablai Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1711 births, 1781 deaths, Asian military people, European military people, Kazakhstani people, Kings and queens

Wali-ullah Abul-Mansur Khan better known as Ablai Khan (1711–1781) was a ruler of the Kazakh Khanate, which is now in Kazakhstan. He became Khan (king) in 1736. Ablai became an orphan when he was a child. He was already famous as a warrior when he was 20 after he killed a great Dgungarian knight.

During Abilay Khan's rule, the Kazakh Khanate protected their eastern borders from Dgungarian invasion. They also had to protect their northern borders from Tatarian and Bashkirian tribes. When the Dgungarian Khanate was defeated by China, Abilay Khan defended the country from a Chinese invasion.

Ablai Khan was a diplomat and a fearless military leader. He united all Kazakh tribes into a strong country. Today, the people of Kazakhstan see him as the father of united Kazakhstan.

[[Turkmen Alabai]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

Alabay or Central Asian Shepherd is a breed of big-sized dog. 

It originated in Central Asia`s countries of Kazakhstan, Kirgistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan andTadzhikistan. It is a very old breed, from ancient times. This breed was originally developed for guarding sheep.

[[Liver disease]]

CATEGORIES: Liver disease

Liver disease is any disease affecting the liver. 

[[Hepatocellular carcinoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Liver disease

Hepatocellular carcinoma is the most frequently encountered type of liver cancer. It is more common in those with cirrhosis of the liver. If localized to the liver and small at the time of diagnosis, it can be surgically treated. If metastatic, it may be treated with Nexavar, an oral medication approved in the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. Liver transplantation may be used in some cases.

[[NHL All-Star Game SuperSkills Competition]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League, 1990 establishments in North America

The NHL All-Star Game SuperSkills Competition, at first called the National Hockey League All-Star Skills Competition, is an event on the night before the NHL All-Star Game. First held at the 41st National Hockey League All-Star Game in Pittsburgh in 1990, the NHL hosts the competition to show off the skills of the all-star players. Events include shot accuracy, fastest skater, puck control relay, hardest shot, breakaway challenge, and an elimination shootout. Players are put into teams in the same way the All-Star Game is done, which is by conferences. After each event, the winning conference is given points.

[[Henrik Sedin]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Art Ross Trophy winners, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Swedish ice hockey players, Vancouver Canucks players, Twin people, Swedish Hockey League players, Ice hockey centres

Henrik Sedin (born 26 September 1980) is a Swedish professional ice hockey centre and captain with the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League (NHL). His identical twin brother Daniel also plays for the Canucks. They have played together during their careers and are known for the way in which they can help each other play. Henrik, a good passer, is known to help set up goals, while Daniel is known to score goals.

Henrik started his career in the Swedish Elite League with Modo Hockey in 1997 and won the Golden Puck as Swedish player of the year in 1999, winning it with Daniel. He was picked third by the Canucks in the 1999 NHL Entry Draft. Henrik has played his entire NHL career in Vancouver and has led the team in scoring the past six seasons, from 2007–08 to 2012-2013. In 2009–10, he won the Art Ross Trophy as the NHL's top point scorer, setting Canucks' records for assists and points in a season as well as the team record for career assists.  Henrik also won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's Most Valuable Player for the 2009-10 season.

Internationally, Henrik has played for Sweden and won a gold medal at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, as well as two bronze medals at the 1999 and 2001 World Championships.

[[Hepatoblastoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Liver disease

Hepatoblastoma is a rare form of Liver cancer occurring most frequently in children. Treatment consists of Surgery and Chemotherapy. If all of the cancer is removed during surgery, the prognosis is excellent, but if cancer is left behind, the prognosis is much worse.

[[Smythe Division]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League divisions

The Smythe Division was one of the playing divisions of the National Hockey League (NHL).  It was formed in 1974, and was part of the new Clarence Campbell Conference. A conference is a group of divisions. The division was named after Conn Smythe, owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs from 1927 to 1961. In 1993, the league divisions changed, and most of the Smythe Division became the Pacific Division. The Smythe Division won the Stanley Cup six times.

[[Kansas City Scouts]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, Sports in Kansas City, Missouri, 1974 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Missouri, 1976 disestablishments in the United States, 20th-century disestablishments in Missouri

The Kansas City Scouts was a National Hockey League (NHL) team. They were an expansion (new addition) team to the league in 1974. They played two seasons in Kansas City, Missouri. While in Kansas City, they were a member of the Smythe Division.  They were named the Scouts, after a well-known statue from the city. The team then moved to Denver, Colorado, and changed their name to the Colorado Rockies. In 1982, they moved again to New Jersey, and changed their name to the New Jersey Devils.

== Standings == 

[[Monikangana Dutta]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Indian actors, Indian models

Moni Kangana Dutta (born September 13) is an Indian supermodel and actress represented by IMG Models.

[[Hideaki Ikematsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Hideaki Ikematsu (born 10 January 1986) is a Japanese football player.

[[Masataka Tamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Okayama Prefecture

Masataka Tamura (born 12 January 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi Uva.

[[Diego Bastos Riberiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Diego Bastos Riberiro (born 20 March 1988) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Gary Caldwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Scottish footballers

Gary Caldwell (born 12 April 1982) is a Scottish football player. He plays for Wigan Athletic and Scotland national team.

[[Eduardo da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Eduardo da Silva (born 25 February 1983) is a Croatian football player. He plays for Shakhtar and Croatia national team.

[[Hidetaka Ubagai]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Hidetaka Ubagai (born 2 September 1951) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Christian Riganò]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Christian Riganò (born 25 May 1974) is an Italian football player.

[[Ryuta Hara]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Ryuta Hara (born 19 April 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yoshiki Maeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Yoshiki Maeda (born 29 August 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[David Di Michele]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Italian footballers

David Di Michele (born 6 January 1976) is an Italian football player. He has played for Italy national team.

[[Leandro Simioni]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Leandro Vilas Boas Simioni (born 29 September 1974) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Goran Jurić]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Goran Jurić (born 5 February 1963) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for Yugoslavia national team and Croatia national team.

[[Diamondback rattlesnake]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers, Reptiles of North America

The diamondback rattlesnake is a very poisonous rattlesnake. Diamondbacks are found from Florida to California. The bite from a big rattlesnake can hold enough poison to kill a person. However, if the victim gets to a doctor quickly enough, he or she can usually survive. People who spend time in regions where diamondback rattlesnakes live should take a few precautions. People must be especially careful around caves. Rattlesnakes sometimes hibernate in caves during cool weather. People can listen carefully for its unusual rattling noise, to know where it is hiding.

[[David Trezeguet]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, French footballers, People from Rouen

David Trezeguet (born 15 October 1977) is a French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Hiroshi Jofuku]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokushima Prefecture

Hiroshi Jofuku is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an football player and coach.

[[Jun Ando]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Shiga Prefecture

Jun Ando is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football or soccer player.

[[Junya Hosokawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Junya Hosokawa (born 24 June 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Mito HollyHock.

[[Koki Otani]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Koki Otani (born 8 April 1989) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Urawa Red Diamonds.

[[Carambola]]

CATEGORIES: Tropical fruit

Carambola (Averrhoa carambola), also known as star fruit, are tropical fruits. The fruit grows on trees that are native to India, Indonesia, and Sri Lanka. Star fruit is common in the south of Asia, Australia and all of the islands around Australia. The tree is also grown in tropic islands.  

[[Kota Ogi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Gifu Prefecture

Kota Ogi (born 5 May 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.

[[Skardu District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Gilgit-Baltistan

Skardu District is part of Baltistan and currently constitutes one of the seven districts of the Gilgit Baltistan territory (formerly Northern Areas) of Pakistan.

[[Astore District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Gilgit-Baltistan

Astore is one of the six districts of Gilgit Baltistan. The district contains the Astore Valley and is bounded to the west by Diamir District (from which it was separated in 2004).

[[Katra Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Katra Tehsil (تحصیل کترا) is a town and a notified area committee in Udhampur District of the disputed territory of Kashmir.

[[Nowshera Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Jammu and Kashmir

Nowshera Tehsil (تحصیل نووشرعا) is a town and a notified area committee in Rajouri District in Jammu and Kashmir.

[[Super Mario]]

CATEGORIES: Mario video games

Super Mario is the biggest and most important sub-series of the Mario series. It started in 1985 with the creation of Super Mario Bros. on the Famicom and later on the Nintendo Entertainment System (also called NES). It has been followed by many sequels released in almost every Nintendo video game console to date, except the Game Boy, the Game Boy Color, and the Game Boy Advance, where only remakes, ports, or other spin-offs games where released.

Most of these games, except Super Mario Bros. 2, Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, and the Super Mario Land series, are about Mario and, normally, his brother Luigi and sometimes his best friend Yoshi, in their adventure to search for and save Princess Peach from Bowser, who wants to takeover the Mushroom Kingdom, or another place, depending on the game. The Mario brothers' adventure is not easy, however, as they need to face Bowser's troops all over, who try to stop the brothers' attempts to save the princess.

All the games, and even some remakes, have been started by the Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development (also called Nintendo EAD) branch but not by the same area.

In 2010, the series celebrated the twenty-fifth of the release of Super Mario Bros.. The celebration included a series of videos showing various tricks throughout the series' games on the Wii's Nintendo Channel, as well as releasing a Wii port of Super Mario All-Stars, which included a history booklet of the Super Mario series and a CD containing several songs from games in the series.

[[Hawthorne, California]]

CATEGORIES: Hawthorne, California

Hawthorne is a city in Los Angeles County, California. Its population is 84,112. The area was first settled by the Shoshonian Indians during the 1500s.

[[Choa Rajgan]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pakistan

Choa Rajgan is a village near Sarai Alamgir in Pakistan. Over 1000 people live there.

The shrine of Baba Sain Alif is in this village. The village is about 6 km away from Sarai Alamgir. 

[[Langston University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Oklahoma, Historically black colleges and universities, 1897 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Oklahoma Territory

Langston University is an university in Langston, Oklahoma, USA. It is the only historically black college in the state.  It is the westernmost historically black college in the United States. Though in a rural setting just 10 miles east of Guthrie, Langston also serves an urban mission with University Centers in both Tulsa and Oklahoma City.

[[Marques Haynes]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Sportspeople from Oklahoma, African-American basketball players, American basketball players

Marques Haynes (March 10, 1926 – May 22, 2015) was an American professional basketball player. He was a member of the Harlem Globetrotters.  He is known for his ability to dribble the ball and keep it away from defenders. According to the movie Harlem Globetrotters: Six Decades of Magic, Haynes could dribble the ball as many as six times a second.

[[Southwestern Athletic Conference]]

CATEGORIES: NCAA Division I athletics conferences, 1920 establishments in the United States

The Southwestern Athletic Conference (SWAC) is a college athletic conference based in Birmingham, Alabama. It is made up of historically black universities in the Southern United States. It participates in the NCAA's Division I for all sports. In football, it participates in the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS).  

The SWAC is one of two conferences (the other being the Ivy League) which do not take part in postseason play in the FCS football tournament.  It is the only one of the two whose members offer a full range of scholarships for football. The SWAC instead splits its schools into two divisions, and plays a conference championship game.  Furthermore, one SWAC game, the Bayou Classic between Southern and Grambling State, is positioned on the schedule after the NCAA tournament has begun. In addition, Alabama State plays Division II rival Tuskegee annually on Thanksgiving Day (The Turkey Day Classic).  

[[Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player Award]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball awards, Baseball lists, Lists of sportspeople, Most valuable player awards

The Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player Award (MVP) is a Major League Baseball (MLB) award given each year to one outstanding player in the American and National Leagues. Since 1931, it has been awarded by the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA). The winner receives the Kenesaw Mountain Landis Memorial Baseball Award.  The award is named in honor of the first MLB commissioner. Landis served from 1920 to 1944. MVP voting takes place before the postseason. The results are not announced until after the World Series. The BBWAA began asking three writers in each league city in 1938. They made that number two per league city in 1961.

First basemen, with 34 winners, have won the most MVPs among infielders.  This is followed by second basemen (16), third basemen (15), and shortstops (15). Of the twenty-four pitchers who have won the award, fifteen are right-handed while nine are left-handed. Walter Johnson, Carl Hubbell, and Hal Newhouser are the only pitchers to win more than once. Newhouser won his in back-to-back seasons, 1944 and 1945. Stan Musial, Alex Rodriguez, and Robin Yount have won at different positions. Rodriguez is the only player to win the award with two different teams at two different positions. Barry Bonds has won the most often (seven times). He has also won it the most times in a row (2001–2004). Jimmie Foxx was the first player to win more than once. Nine players have won three times and 19 have won twice.

The award's only tie occurred in the National League in 1979 when Keith Hernandez and Willie Stargell received the same amount of points. There have been 17 unanimous winners, meaning they received all the first-place votes. The New York Yankees have the most winning players with 22.  The St. Louis Cardinals have the second most with 17 winners. Five teams have not had a winner. The most recent winners are Mike Trout in the American League and Clayton Kershaw in the National League.

[[Silver medal]]

CATEGORIES: Awards, Olympic Games

A silver medal is a medal given to the second place finisher of contests (usually sports competitions) such as the Olympic Games or Commonwealth Games.  First and third place finishers usually receive a gold medal and bronze medal, respectively.

[[Cáhuil]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the Region of O'Higgins

Cáhuil is a Chilean village. It is 15 kilometers south of Pichilemu, in the outfall of the Nilahue lake, in the Region of O'Higgins. Cáhuil means in Mapudungun language "seagulls place". The main characteristic of the place is the crafty production of coastal salt, oysters and choros. The Cáhuil Lagoon is a place suitable for fishing, swimming and boat travels.

[[Liceo Agustín Ross Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: Pichilemu, Schools in Chile

Agustín Ross High School, Liceo Agustín Ross Edwards or just L.A.R.E. is a Chilean public high school located in the coastal town of Pichilemu. It is named after Agustín Ross Edwards, a Chilean politician and known by his works in the city.

The High School was created in 1979. It currently has 2 buildings. Has 562 students and 39 teachers. The education area of the High School is Humanistic Scientifical, Technical-Professional and Adult Education. As of 1998, the High School started using the Complete Scholar Journey (Jornada Escolar Completa).

[[Derivative (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematical analysis

other meanings of the term

[[Ruminant]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals

A ruminant is an ungulate that eats and digests plant-based food such as grass. Ruminating mammals include cattle, goats, sheep, giraffes, bison, yaks, water buffalo, deer, camels, alpacas, llamas, wildebeest, antelope, pronghorn, and nilgai. All of them are Artiodactyla, cloven-hoofed animals. The word "ruminant" comes from the Latin word ruminare which means "to chew over again".

[[Renault Tracer]]

CATEGORIES: Buses, Renault automobiles

The Renault Tracer was a bus produced by Renault from 1991 to 2001. 

The FR1 has a 9.8 litre 6-cylinder turbo diesel engine with 186 kW/253 hp.

In 2001, the Tracer were replaced by the Irisbus Arés.

[[Mercedes-Benz Sprinter]]

CATEGORIES: Rear wheel drive vehicles, Buses, Vans, Mercedes-Benz automobiles

The Mercedes-Benz Sprinter is series of vans, trucks and buses produced by Mercedes-Benz in three generations since 1995.

Dodge and Freightliner made the same vehicle in the United States but with different names, The names were Dodge Sprinter and Freightliner Sprinter.

[[Naoya Otaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamagata Prefecture

Naoya Otaki (born 11 June 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Grulla Morioka.

[[Kenichi Yagara]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Kenichi Yagara (born 14 September 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryosuke Amo]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokushima Prefecture

Ryosuke Amo is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Yosuke Nozaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Yosuke Nozaki (born 16 February 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagan Tosu.

[[Josue Souza Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Josue Souza Santos (born 10 July 1987) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Joan Capdevila]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Joan Capdevila (born 2 March 1978) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Villarreal and Spain national team.

[[Shogo Sakurai]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Shogo Sakurai (born 3 April 1984) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Mitsutada Ikeda]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Mitsutada Ikeda (born 18 June 1984) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kinoto Saito]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture

Kinoto Saito (born 8 July 1976) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ganju Iwate.

[[Takafumi Kanazawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Takafumi Kanazawa (born 25 April 1981) is a Japanese football player.

[[Stelios Giannakopoulos]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Greek footballers

Stelios Giannakopoulos (born 12 July 1974) is a Greek football player. He has played for Greece national team.

[[Daisuke Horiuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamagata Prefecture

Daisuke Horiuchi (born 21 April 1985) is a Japanese football player.

[[Yuji Oe]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Yuji Oe (born 20 April 1986) is a Japanese football player.

[[Hayato Sasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyagi Prefecture

Hayato Sasaki (born 29 November 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gamba Osaka.

[[Kenjiro Ezoe]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Okayama Prefecture

Kenjiro Ezoe (born 25 August 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kataller Toyama.

[[Bible version debate]]

CATEGORIES: Bible versions

The Bible is a collection of texts. The original of these texts were written in different languages. Today, the  collection of texts that is called The Bible is written in one language only. For this reason, at least some texts need to be translated. Versions of the Bible are also different in the texts they include, some texts are not part of some Bible versions. One of the first such translations is the Septuagint, which is Ancient Greek. Another well-known translation is the Vulgate, which is Latin. From about the 14th century, the Bible was also translated into other languages.

[[1955 World Series]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball World Series, 1955 in sports, Los Angeles Dodgers, New York Yankees, 1955 in the United States, 1950s in New York (state)

The 1955 World Series was played between the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Yankees. The Dodgers won the Series in seven games.  This was their first championship in team history. It would be the only Series the Dodgers won in Brooklyn. The team moved to Los Angeles after the 1957 season. The last time the Brooklyn team won a World Championship was in 1900. The team was called the Brooklyn Superbas. The series was called the Chronicle-Telegraph Cup. Their opponent then was fellow National League competitor Pittsburgh Pirates.

This series would also end a long period of success for the Yankees in the World Series.  It was the Yankees' first loss in a World Series since 1942. It was only their second loss since 1926.  The Yankees were 15-2 in the series during that time. They would lose again in 1957, 1960, 1963, and 1964.  The Yankees would have a record of 4-5 in World Series over the next decade.

The two teams were meeting in a World Series for the fifth time in nine years. The Yankees had won in 1947, 1949, 1952 and 1953.

[[Second baseman]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball positions

Second base, or 2B, is the second of four places on a baseball field which must be touched in order by a base runner before he can score a run for that player's team. A second baseman is the baseball player who guards second base. Also called second bagger, the second baseman often has quick hands and feet.  He needs the ability to get rid of the ball quickly. He must be able to make the turn on a double play. Also, shortstops and second basemen are usually right-handed. This makes it easier to turn a double play. In the numbering system used to record defensive plays, the second baseman is assigned the number 4.

Current second basemen include Chase Utley, Robinson Cano, Dustin Pedroia, Orlando Hudson, Aaron Hill and Ben Zobrist.

[[Naoki Matsuda]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2011 deaths, Footballers from Gunma Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Yokohama F. Marinos players, Matsumoto Yamaga FC players, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup players, Footballers at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 2000 Summer Olympics, 2000 AFC Asian Cup players, AFC Asian Cup-winning players, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Deaths from heart failure

Naoki Matsuda was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Splenomegaly]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders of the cardiovascular system

Splenomegaly is the enlargement of the spleen. It frequently occurs in asscociation with hematological cancers. 

[[Nick Griffin]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, Former MEPs, MEPs for the United Kingdom, Politicians from Hertfordshire, Politicians from Suffolk

Nicholas John "Nick" Griffin (born 1 March 1959 in Barnet, Hertfordshire, England) is a British politician who is the chairman of the British National Party (BNP) and Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for the region of North West England.

Nick Griffin was educated in Suffolk, and joined the National Front when he was 14. He became a political worker for the party after his graduation from Cambridge University. In 1980 he became a member of its governing body, and later wrote articles for several right-wing magazines. In 1995, he joined the British National Party and in 1999 he became its leader. He made several attempts to make the party electable including the removal of certain extremist policies. At the 2009 European Parliament election, Griffin was elected an MEP for the North West England region. In October 2009, he was on the BBC television show Question Time which caused controversy.

In March 2017, Nick stated that he would want to emigrate to Hungary. He said,

“And I hope that Hungary, the Hungarian government, the Hungarian people, will welcome people who are genuine refugees from western Europe but keep out the liberals who have brought western Europe to this state in the first place.”

In May 2017, he was issued with a entry and residence ban from the Hungarian government, declaring him as the persona non grata.

[[Geoffrey Burbidge]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2010 deaths, English astronomers, Astrophysicists, English physicists, English science writers, Alumni of University College London

Geoffrey Burbidge  (born Chipping Norton, 24 September 1925; died La Jolla, California,   26 January 2010)  was an English astrophysicist.  For many years he was professor at the  University of California, San Diego.  In 1957 he published a famous paper, together with three other physicists, about the origin of elements.  Many scientists disagreed with ideas that he had later in his life, because he did not believe in the Big Bang theory.

[[Michael Scholz]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, German composers, German musicians, Modern Talking

Michael Scholz (January 26, 1949) is a German singer, composer and producer.

Between 1984 and 2000 he worked with Dieter Bohlen in Modern Talking and Blue System, as part of the chorus. Since 2003 he works on his music group, Systems in Blue, with Rolf Köhler and Detlef Wiedeke.

His voice type is falsetto.

[[2008–09 Montreal Canadiens season]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in ice hockey, 2009 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2008 in Canada, 2009 in Canada

The 2008–09 Montreal Canadiens season is their 99th season of play and 91st in the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[2007–08 Montreal Canadiens season]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in ice hockey, 2008 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2007 in Canada, 2008 in Canada

The 2007–08 Montreal Canadiens season is their 98th season of play and 90th in the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Radiation therapy]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer treatment

Radiation therapy is the use of radiation to treat diseases. It is typically used to treat of cancer. It may use a radioactive material or particle accelerator or other source of ionizing radiation that can kill or damage cancerous cells.

Radiation therapy may help cure several different types of cancer if they are limited to one area of the body. Doctors also use it to prevent tumor recurrence after surgery to remove a primary malignant tumor (for example, early stages of breast cancer). Radiation therapy works together with chemotherapy. Radiation therapy has been used before, during, and after chemotherapy in cancers known to be affected by radiation.

Radiation therapy is used on tumors because of its ability to control cell growth. Ionizing radiation works by damaging the DNA of exposed tissue thus killing it. To spare normal tissues (such as skin or organs which radiation must pass through in order to treat the tumor), doctors aim weaker radiation beams from several angles of exposure. The beams intersect at the tumor, providing a much larger absorbed dose there than in the surrounding, healthy tissue. 

Besides the tumor itself, the target for the radiation may also include the lymph nodes that drain the area. Doctors include the lymph nodes if they are clinically or radiologically involved with tumor, or if there is thought to be a risk of that individual cancer cells will spread. It is impossible to aim the radiation beam exactly because the tumor moves as the patient breathes. So, doctors also expect to include some healthy tissue around the tumor to make sure that the entire tumor is hit by radiation.

Radiation oncology is the medical specialty concerned with prescribing radiation. This is different than radiology, the use of radiation in medical imaging and diagnosis). Radiation may be prescribed by a radiation oncologist with intent to cure ("curative"). It may also be used as palliative treatment (where cure is not possible and the aim is for local disease control or symptomatic relief) or as therapeutic treatment (where the therapy has survival benefit and it can be curative). It is also common to combine radiation therapy with surgery, chemotherapy, hormone therapy, Immunotherapy or some mixture of the four. 

Most common cancer types can be treated with radiation therapy in some way.  The precise treatment intent will depend on the tumor type, location, and stage, as well as the general health of the patient.  Total body irradiation (TBI) is a radiation therapy technique used to prepare the body to receive a bone marrow transplant. Brachytherapy, in which a radiation source is placed inside or next to the area requiring treatment, is another form of radiation therapy that minimizes exposure of healthy tissue during procedures to treat cancers of the breast, prostate and other organs.

Radiation therapy can also be used in non-malignant conditions, such as the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia, severe thyroid eye disease, pterygium, pigmented villonodular synovitis, and prevention of keloid scar growth, vascular restenosis, and heterotopic ossification.  Doctors limit the use of radiation therapy in non-malignant conditions because they worry about the radiation could start new cancers. 

[[Dacarbazine]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer treatment

Dacarbizine is a type of drug used to fight cancer.  It works by changing DNA, which makes cancer cells grow more slowly or completely stop growing. It is used against metastatic melanoma.  Only about 15.3% of people who use the drug respond to it.  People who use this drug do not live any longer as a result.

It has side effects, including less blood cells, damage to the liver.  I can also sometimes make other types of cancer start growing.

[[Ross Hotel]]

CATEGORIES: Pichilemu, Hotels

The Ross Park is an old hotel in the Chilean city of Pichilemu. It was created by Agustín Ross Edwards in 1885,  and remodeled in December 1987.

The park is located on Agustín Ross Avenue, in front of the old Ross Casino. The hotel was originally named Great Hotel Pichilemu (Gran Hotel Pichilemu). The once grand Ross Hotel was constructed at the same time. Although the hotel, one of the oldest in Chile, is still partially open to guests, it is in a high state of disrepair.

The hotel was named National Monuments on February 25, 1988.

[[Liceo Santa Cruz]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Chile

Santa Cruz High School (Liceo Santa Cruz) is a public high school in Santa Cruz, Chile.

[[Chronic myeloid leukemia]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Blood disorders

Chronic myeloid leukemia is a chronic (slowly progressive) form of leukemia. It can be treated with Gleevec (Imatinib). Other treatments that are sometimes used include Interferon. Hydroxyurea has also been used, as has Busulfan.  

[[Zoom (1972 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: English-language television programs, Public Broadcasting Service, 1972 television series debuts, 1978 television series endings

Zoom (stylized as ZOOM) is a January 1972-1978 and January 1999-July 2006 television show (series) on PBS.

[[Haboob]]

CATEGORIES: Winds, Severe weather

A haboob is a storm that forms in the downdrafts of a thunderstorm. The downdrafts are caused by air being pushed down onto the ground, similiar to a leaf blower. They can be seen in deserts like the Saharan and in places like Arizona.

A thunderstorm can make strong downdrafts, which is just wind that blows down towards the surface of the Earth. When the wind hits the Earth, it starts to move sideways and picks up dirt and dust. It makes a cloud of dust that is bad for people, animals and plants.

[[Food waste]]

CATEGORIES: Waste, Food and drink

Food waste is food that is thrown away, either because it is not needed, or because it must be thrown away by law. 

[[Antonio Barragán]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Antonio Barragán (born 12 June 1987) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Real Valladolid.

[[Borja Oubiña]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Borja Oubiña (born 17 May 1982) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Celta Vigo.

[[Bojan Krkić]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Bojan Krkić (born 28 August 1990) is a Spanish football player. He plays for A.S. Roma.

[[Raúl Tamudo]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Raúl Tamudo (born 19 October 1977) is a Spanish football player. He is best known for playing with Espanyol Barcelona.

[[David Suazo]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Honduran footballers

David Suazo (born 5 November 1979) is a Honduran football player. He plays for Genoa and Honduras national team.

[[Mauro Esposito]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Mauro Esposito (born 13 June 1979) is an Italian football player. He has played for Italy national team.

[[Genki Ota]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Genki Ota (born 10 April 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gainare Tottori.

[[Kazuyuki Otsuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Kazuyuki Otsuka (born 7 July 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for V-Varen Nagasaki.

[[Christian Poulsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Danish footballers

Christian Poulsen (born 28 February 1980) is a Danish football player. He plays for Juventus and Denmark national team.

[[Adalto Batista da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Adalto Batista da Silva (born 30 August 1978) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Maxsandro Barbosa de Oliveira]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro

Maxsandro Barbosa de Oliveira (born 3 August 1972) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Srđan Baljak]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Serbian footballers, People from Belgrade

Srđan Baljak (born 25 November 1978) is a Serbian football player. He plays for Duisburg.

[[Tatsuro Noda]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Tatsuro Noda (born 25 November 1986) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Fran Mérida]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Barcelona

Fran Mérida (born 4 March 1990) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Arsenal.

[[Hugo Ibarra]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Hugo Ibarra (born 1 April 1974) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Boca Juniors.

[[Takashi Soejima]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Takashi Soejima (born 11 April 1988) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ismaël Bangoura]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Guinean people, African footballers

Ismaël Bangoura (born 2 January 1985) is a Guinean football player. He plays for Stade Rennais and Guinea national team.

[[Masato Koga]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Masato Koga is a former Japanese football player.

[[Hidetoshi Wakui]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture

Hidetoshi Wakui (born 21 February 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JK Nõmme Kalju.

[[Ewerthon]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Ewerthon (born 10 June 1981) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Palmeiras.

[[Juan Arango]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Venezuelan sportspeople, South American footballers

Juan Arango (born 16 May 1980) is a Venezuelan football player. He currently plays for American club New York Cosmos. He captained the Venezuela national team and played 10 years during 1999-2009.

[[Marcelo Vieira]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Association football defenders, Association football full-backs, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro

Marcelo Vieira (born 12 May 1988) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Real Madrid and Brazil national team.

[[Artem Milevskiy]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Ukrainian footballers

Artem Milevskiy (born 12 January 1985) is an Ukrainian football player. He plays for Dynamo Kyiv and Ukraine national team.

[[Tugay Kerimoğlu]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Turkish footballers

Tugay Kerimoğlu (born 24 August 1970) is a former Turkish football player. He has played for Turkey national team.

[[Hiroaki Namba]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Okayama Prefecture

Hiroaki Namba (born 9 December 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.

[[Kohei Usui]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Kohei Usui (born 16 July 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shonan Bellmare.

[[Masaki Iida]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Masaki Iida (born 15 September 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo Verdy.

[[Lakhdar Belloumi]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Algerian footballers, Algerian football managers

Rabah Madjer (born 29 December 1958) in Mascara, Algeria is a former Algerian football player. He has played for Algeria national team.

[[Shenandoah Valley Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Virginia, 1908 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Virginia

Shenandoah Valley Academy (SVA) is a school in the town of New Market, Virginia. The school is run by the Adventist Church and has High School age boys and girls. Some students live on campus in the dorms. Other students come on school days as day students. SVA has three diploma programs. It has a performing arts department with five music groups. It has an athletics department which coordinates teams to play within the school, and to play other schools.

[[Computer Misuse Act 1990]]

CATEGORIES: Computers, Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom

The Computer Misuse Act 1990 (c. 18) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was made after Robert Schifreen and Stephen Gold hacked into British Telecom's Prestel viewdata service in 1984-1985. They were even able to see personal messages of Prince Philip, but they could not be prosecuted as there were no laws against hacking. This was a problem, as people could hack into systems and see personal data without breaking the law, which was why the Computer Misuse Act was made.

Some people did not like the act, saying it was made too quickly and not given much thought. The act did not make a difference between people who hacked for fun from people who hacked to steal data or money. Other countries have made their acts for hacking using parts of the Computer Misuse Act, such as Canada and the Republic of Ireland. It has been amended many times since 1990 to keep it up to date.

[[Acrobatics]]

CATEGORIES: Fitness, Gymnastics

Acrobatics (akrobateō — climb upward) is usually understood as

Acrobatics requires extraordinary balance, agility, flexibility, control, concentration and motor coordination. A person who performs acrobatics is called an acrobat.

Acrobatic skills were known in ancient Egypt, Greece, Rome and China. In the 19th century, acrobatic performance became popular in circuses of Europe. In the 20th century it became an organized sport with leagues and championships.

[[David Aardsma]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American baseball players, Sportspeople from Colorado, San Francisco Giants players, Chicago Cubs players, Chicago White Sox players, Boston Red Sox players, Seattle Mariners players, Sportspeople from Denver, Colorado

David Allen Aardsma was a Major League Baseball pitcher. He played for the Seattle Mariners and was the team's closer. He retired with the Braves in 2015. He was born in Denver, Colorado on December 27, 1981.

In 2009, Aardsma earned 38 saves for the Mariners, which tied him for fourth place in the American League with 38 saves.

If the names of all players in Major League Baseball history were listed in alphabetical order, Aardsma's name would come first.

[[Parliament Hill]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Ottawa

Parliament Hill (in Colline du Parlement) refers to a set of buildings in Ottawa, Ontario, the capital of Canada, where the Government of Canada meets and Members of Parliament make laws.  It is called Parliament Hill because it is on a hill above the Ottawa River.

There are three main buildings: the West Block, the East Block and the Centre Block.

A fire in 1916 burned the Centre Block and only the library was saved.  The building was rebuilt and the Peace Tower was finished in 1927.

The roof of each building is made of copper which turns green over time.

There are many statues around Parliament Hill including many former Prime Ministers and 5 famous women who helped women gain equal rights in Canada.  There is also a centennial flame that was lit when Canada turned 100 years old.

[[Pine Gap]]

CATEGORIES: Northern Territory

Pine Gap is a remote facility 19 km southwest of Alice Springs in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is officially recognised as a joint defense of Australia and the US satellite tracking station. Conspiracies exist which link the site to covert programs for monitoring and testing of laser weaponry for satellite and space based attack/defense.

Pine Gap employs about 700 American and Australians and is responsible for about 2,000 people in the Alice Springs region who are US citizens. The US influence in the area is evident by American sports such as baseball and American football. Similarly, the celebration of American festivals which are normally not active in Australia, such as Halloween, Independence Day and Thanksgiving also showcase the US cultural influence. A number of Australians join in the festivities from time to time.

[[Colleges and universities in Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Kansas, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in the U.S. state of  Kansas.

The Kansas Board of Regents runs six state universities, as well as 19 community colleges, five technical colleges, six technical schools and a municipal university.  The Board also lets private and out-of-state institutions to operate in Kansas with a Certificate of Approval that is renewed every year.  These schools teach business trade, technical, or industrial occupations that lead to a certificate, diploma, or academic degree.

[[House of Romanov]]

CATEGORIES: House of Romanov

The House of Romanov (Рома́нов) was the second and last imperial dynasty to rule over Russia. It ruled from 1613 until the February Revolution took away the crown in 1917.  The later history of the Imperial House is sometimes referred to as the House of Holstein-Gottorp-Romanov.

The Duke of Holstein-Gottorp, who was from a younger branch of the Oldenburgs, married into the Romanov family in the mid-eighteenth century.  Though officially known as the House of Romanov, these descendants of the Romanov and Oldenburg Houses are sometimes referred to as Holstein-Gottorp-Romanov.

[[João Moutinho]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

João Moutinho (born 8 September 1986) is a Portuguese football player. He plays as a midfielder for Premier League team Wolverhampton Wanderers and Portugal national team.

[[Takuya Shiihara]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Takuya Shiihara (born 9 July 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tomoya Hirayama]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Tomoya Hirayama (born 14 September 1985) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Daniele Bonera]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Italian footballers, Sportspeople from Lombardy, People from Brescia

Daniele Bonera (born 31 May 1981) is an Italian football player. He plays for Milan.

[[Ricardo Quaresma]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Sportspeople from Lisbon

Ricardo Quaresma (born 26 September 1983) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Beşiktaş and the Portugal national team. He was born in Lisbon, the capital city of Portugal.

[[Daisuke Akashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Saga Prefecture

Daisuke Akashi (born 20 April 1982) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Koichi Sekimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Koichi Sekimoto (born 23 May 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryuki Kozawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Ryuki Kozawa (born 6 February 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gainare Tottori.

[[Paulino Alcántara]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1964 deaths, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers, Association football forwards

Paulino Alcántara Riestrá (7 October 1896 – 13 February 1964) was a Spanish Filipino football player and manager who played as a forward. He spent most of his playing career at FC Barcelona and represented Catalonia, the Philippines and Spain internationally.

[[Masanori Tokita]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2004 deaths, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Tanabe Mitsubishi Pharma SC players, Footballers at the 1956 Summer Olympics

Masanori Tokita was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Nuri Şahin]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Turkish footballers, Borussia Dortmund squad

Nuri Şahin (born 5 September 1988) is a Turkish football player. He plays for Werder Bremen and Turkey national team.

[[Halil Altıntop]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, People from Gelsenkirchen, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia, Turkish footballers

Halil Altıntop (born 8 December 1982) is a Turkish football player. He plays for Trabzonspor and Turkey national team.

[[Hamit Altıntop]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, People from Gelsenkirchen, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia, Turkish footballers

Hamit Altıntop (born 8 December 1982) is a Turkish football player. He plays for Bayern Munich and Turkey national team.

[[David Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Manchester City F.C. players

David Silva (born 8 January 1986) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Valencia and Spain national team.

[[Ángel Javier Arizmendi]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Madrid

Ángel Javier Arizmendi (born 3 March 1984) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Real Zaragoza.

[[Khodadad Azizi]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Iranian footballers, Iranian football managers, 1998 FIFA World Cup players

Khodadad Azizi (born 22 June 1971) is a former Iranian football player. He has played for Iran national team.

[[Atsuga Shimizu]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Atsuga Shimizu (born 29 June 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yukio Tsuda]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1979 deaths, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Urawa Red Diamonds players

Yukio Tsuda was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Ko Arima]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Ko Arima was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Nobuyuki Kato]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Year of death missing, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers, Tanabe Mitsubishi Pharma SC players

Nobuyuki Kato was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Ken Noritake]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1994 deaths, Japanese footballers, Japan international footballers

Ken Noritake was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hiroto Muraoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers

Hiroto Muraoka was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Osamu Yamaji]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Kashima Antlers players

Osamu Yamaji is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Nobuo Fujishima]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Footballers from Akita Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, NKK SC players

Nobuo Fujishima is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Masaru Akiba]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamagata Prefecture

Masaru Akiba is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football player.

[[Takashi Hirajima]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Takashi Hirajima (born 3 February 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.

[[Tetsuya Ōkubo]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Tetsuya Ōkubo (born 9 March 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Avispa Fukuoka.

[[Tomoya Kanamori]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Tomoya Kanamori is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an  Association football player.

[[Tomoyoshi Ono]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Tomoyoshi Ono (born 12 August 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.

[[Toshihiko Uchiyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Toshihiko Uchiyama (born 21 October 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.

[[Yasuaki Oshima]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Yasuaki Oshima is a Japanese football player.

[[Yoshizumi Ogawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yoshizumi Ogawa (born 25 August 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagoya Grampus Eight.

[[Yuichi Shibakoya]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyagi Prefecture

Yuichi Shibakoya (born 16 June 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Oita Trinita.

[[Yuji Rokutan]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture, Avispa Fukuoka players

Yuji Rokutan (born 10 April 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Avispa Fukuoka.

[[Coelenterata]]

CATEGORIES: Invertebrates

Coelenterata was the name for an animal phylum. It is not used now. It was broken down into two separate phyla: the Cnidaria (jellyfish) and the Ctenophora (comb jellies). This change was made on the evidence of molecular evolution. This makes use of protein amino acid sequences, and whole genome DNA analysis.

[[Ben & Jerry's]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 establishments in the United States, American food companies, Burlington, Vermont, 20th-century establishments in Vermont

Ben and Jerry’s is an American ice cream company. It sells different kinds of ice creams. It was founded in 1978 in Burlington, Vermont. In 2000, Ben and Jerry's was sold to Unilever, a British-Dutch company.

[[Choanoflagellate]]

CATEGORIES: Protista, Invertebrates, Minor phyla

The choanoflagellates are a class or phylum of collared microscopic flagellate eukaryotes. Some species are single cells, some are multicellular. They do not have chloroplasts, and are heterotrophic. Some consider they form the simplest phylum of animals; others consider them to be protists.

[[Yoshitada Yamaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Kashiwa Reysol players, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Yoshitada Yamaguchi is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kozo Arai]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players

Kozo Arai is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Mitsuo Kamata]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Mitsuo Kamata is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Nobuo Kawakami]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Kashiwa Reysol players

Nobuo Kawakami is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hiroshi Katayama]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Hiroshi Katayama is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Masafumi Yokoyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Nippon Steel Yawata SC players

Masafumi Yokoyama is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Michihiro Ozawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, Footballers at the 1956 Summer Olympics

Michihiro Ozawa is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Mitsuo Watanabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Shonan Bellmare players

Mitsuo Watanabe is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tetsuo Sugamata]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Kashiwa Reysol players

Tetsuo Sugamata is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yasuo Takamori]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Year of death missing, Footballers from Okayama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, NKK SC players, Footballers at the 1956 Summer Olympics

Yasuo Takamori (former name; Yasuo Kageyama, 景山 泰男) was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Placozoa]]

CATEGORIES: Minor phyla

The Placozoa are an animal phylum, a primitive form of invertebrate. They are the simplest in structure of all metazoa.

The Placozoa is usually considered to have only one species, Trichoplax adhaerens, but there is enough genetic diversity that it is possible that there are multiple, morphologically similar species.

Although they were first discovered in 1883, a common name does not exist for the taxon. The scientific name literally means "flat animals".

Trichoplax is a small, flattened, animal around a millimetre across. Like an Amoeba, it has no regular outline, although the upper surface is always flattened. The body consists of an outer layer of simple epithelium enclosing a loose sheet of cells. The epithelial cells bear flagella, which the animal uses to help it creep along the seafloor. Between these layers is the fiber syncytium, a liquid-filled cavity strutted open by star-like fibers.

Trichoplax feed by absorbing food particles—mainly microbes—with their underside. They generally reproduce asexually, by dividing or budding, but can also reproduce sexually. Though Trichoplax has a small genome in comparison to other animals, nearly 87% of its 11,514 protein-coding genes are similar to known genes in other animals.

In the 1960s and 1970s renewed interest among researchers led to the discovery that the animals people had been studying are adults, not larvae.  This newfound interest also included study of the organism in nature (as opposed to aquariums).

[[Sipuncula]]

CATEGORIES: Minor phyla, Annelids

The Sipuncula, also known as the Sipunculida, or peanut worms, are a small phylum of marine worms, or they may be a class in the Annelida. The phylum has 144–320 species (estimates vary) of these bilaterally symmetrical, unsegmented worms.

[[Ebbe Sand]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Danish footballers

Ebbe Sand (born 19 July 1972) is a former Danish football player. He has played for Denmark national team.

[[Terrestrial]]

Terrestrial might mean:

[[Mattias Jonson]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Mattias Jonson (born 16 January 1974) is a Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.

[[So Far Gone]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Drake albums

So Far Gone is the debut EP of Canadian artist Drake, released on September 15, 2009, originally released as a mixtape on February 13, 2009.

[[Danny Mills]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2002 FIFA World Cup players, English footballers, Living people, Manchester City F.C. players, Sportspeople from Norfolk, Premier League players

Danny Mills (born 18 May 1977) is a former English football player. He has played for England national team.

[[2008–09 Chicago Blackhawks season]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in ice hockey, 2009 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2000s in Chicago, 2008 in Illinois, 2009 in Illinois

The 2008–09 Chicago Blackhawks season is the team's 82nd season in the National Hockey League (NHL). 

[[2007–08 Chicago Blackhawks season]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in ice hockey, 2008 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2000s in Chicago, 2007 in Illinois, 2008 in Illinois

The 2007–08 Chicago Blackhawks season is the team's 81st season in the National Hockey League (NHL). 

[[Table (information)]]

CATEGORIES: Typography, Statistics, Graphics, Genres

A table of information is a set of facts arranged in rows and columns. It is a way of displaying information. It requires a medium, such as writing or print on paper, or a computer monitor. It is both a mode of visual communication and also a way to set out data. 

A table consists of an orderly arrangement of rows and columns. The columns and rows usually have names or labels. Tables may include notes, headers, footers or other features. Like other graphic forms such as diagrams and illustrations, tables are often used together with prose. In books and articles, tables are often given numbers and captions. 

Tables were the first way to print social and scientific data, before any other kind of graphics like graphs and charts. All the information about a modern society was recorded and published first as tables. Marriage certificates were written tables. Census results were recorded as tables, and later analysed in printed tables. All weather observations were published as printed numerical tables. Many kinds of reports to Parliament contained tables of data. Many of these methods were invented in Britain, because the government collected statistics about the population, and then published the results.

The use of tables is widespread in all types of communication, research and data analysis. Tables appear in print media, handwritten notes, computer software, architectural ornamentation, traffic signs and many other places. The details vary according to circumstances. Tables are extremely flexible, and can easily be constructed on computer and in print.

Tables are not always easy to understand, and there is a whole industry which takes table information and turns it into other forms, such as graphs and charts, for the benefit of the reader.

[[Siphon (mollusc)]]

CATEGORIES: Molluscs

A siphon is a long tube-like structure that is present in certain aquatic molluscs: Gastropods, bivalves, and cephalopods. The tube is used for the exchange of liquids, or air. This flow can have different purposes, the most common are  breathing,  locomotion, feeding and reproduction.

The siphon is part of the mantle of the mollusc, and the water flow is directed to (or from) the mantle cavity.

A single siphon occurs in some gastropods. In those bivalves which have siphons, they are paired. In cephalopods, there is a single siphon or funnel which is known as a hyponome.

[[2008–09 New Jersey Devils season]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in ice hockey, 2009 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2000s in New Jersey, 2008 in the United States, 2009 in the United States

The 2008–09 New Jersey Devils season was the team's 26th season in the National Hockey League since the franchise relocated to New Jersey. 

[[2007–08 New Jersey Devils season]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in ice hockey, 2008 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2007 in New Jersey, 2008 in the United States

The 2007–08 New Jersey Devils season is the team's 25th season in the National Hockey League since the franchise relocated to New Jersey. 

[[2008–09 Washington Capitals season]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in ice hockey, 2009 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2000s in Washington, D.C.

[[2007–08 Washington Capitals season]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in ice hockey, 2008 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2000s in Washington, D.C.

[[2008–09 Tampa Bay Lightning season]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in ice hockey, 2009 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2008 in Florida, 2009 in Florida, 2000s in Tampa, Florida, Tampa Bay Lightning

[[2007–08 Tampa Bay Lightning season]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in ice hockey, 2008 in ice hockey, National Hockey League team seasons, 2007 in Florida, 2008 in Florida, 2000s in Tampa, Florida, Tampa Bay Lightning

[[Streaking]]

CATEGORIES: Nudity

Streaking is the act of taking off one's clothes and running naked through a public place. It is a type of public nudity but it is usually meant as a bit of fun, although streakers may be arrested and charged with indecency.

[[Vanishing point]]

CATEGORIES: Art

In art, a vanishing point is the point in a perspective drawing where lines that either parallel to each other or  are not parallel to the main subject of the painting come together. At this point the two parallel lines seem to converge.It can be experienced in real life while seeing a parallel set of rails or the two parallel lines of a road , they appear to converge at a far away point. 

[[Catherine Spence]]

CATEGORIES: 1825 births, 1910 deaths, Australian novelists, British activists, British journalists, British novelists, Scottish writers, Australian activists, Australian journalists

Catherine Helen Spence (31 October 1825 – 3 April 1910) was a Scottish-Australian journalist and author in Australia. She fought for the rights of poor people, orphans, criminals, women, and children. She devoted most of her life to making change in South Australia. She strongly believed that women should be allowed to vote. Spence believed that everyone should get a good education. She was the first Australian woman to try to join the government.

She was lovingly called "the Grand Old Woman of Australia". In Scotland a plaque was made at her birthplace in 1999 (89 years after she died). She died in Adelaide, South Australia.

[[2002 Commonwealth Games]]

CATEGORIES: Commonwealth Games, 2002 in Europe, 2000s in Manchester

The 2002 Commonwealth Games were held in Manchester, England from 25 July to 4 August 2002. The XVII Commonwealth Games was the second-largestJuly 2021 multi-sport event ever to be held in England after the 2012 Summer Olympics. It was larger than London's 1948 Summer Olympics in numbers of teams and events (but not athletes) in the event.

After the 1996 Manchester bombing, the Games were part of the development of Manchester. It helped Manchester's reputation as a European Global City, and also, internationally. Rapid Economy of Manchester economic growth and continued urban rebuilding of the city continued after the Games. This helped make it one of the main cities in the United Kingdom.

Events were held across Greater Manchester. The opening and closing ceremonies, the athletic and the rugby sevens events were held at the City of Manchester Stadium. It was built for the Games. The shooting events were held in the National Shooting Centre in Bisley, Surrey. This was some 200 from the main focus of the Games in Manchester. This is unusual for a large multi-sport event.

Seventy-two nations competed in 14 individual sports and 3 team sports events.

[[Desso GrassMaster]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

Desso GrassMaster is a sports playing field surface made of natural grass that has artificial fibres added to it.  The unique part of this system is the artificial grass fibres, stuck 20 cm deep, which cover 3% of the surface. During the growing process, the roots of the natural grass mix with the man-made grass fibres to anchor the turf to product a stable, solid, and even field with better drainage and better playing comfort.

Reinforced natural grass is used for stadium pitches and training pitches used for soccer, rugby, American football and baseball. Reinforced natural grass can also be used for events and concerts. The artificial turf injection shortens the recovery time for the grass. Reinforced Natural Grass (also known as Hybrid Grass), as the name suggest, is formed by the mixture of natural and artificial fibres. It was in the year 1990, when the first generation of Reinforced Natural Grass developed. Using turf, made up of synthetic fibres, combined with Natural Grass has become extremely popular in recent times. In this case, the artificial fibres are intertwined with natural grass roots as they grow. The synthetic fibers help to stabilize and protect the natural grass, improving growth of natural grass fields.

In 2010, for the first time in history, a FIFA World CupTM was played on grass pitches that were partly made up of artificial grass in the Mbombela Stadium and the Peter Mokaba Stadium. 

[[Table (furniture)]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Furniture

A table is a piece of furniture with a flat top supported by one or more  legs. We put things on a table, often for a short time, for example food and knives and forks, etc. at a meal, cups for drinks, a book, a map, writing paper when writing, and things for hobbies.

We also put things on tables for a longer time, for example a TV, computer or decorations (pretty things). Often we put a cloth on the table, flat on the top. There are traditional ways of putting the cloth, knives and forks and food on the table for meals.

We can make some tables bigger, for example by pulling the top out. We can also fold some tables to transport them better, for example for camping. There are also small tables in trains and planes which we can fold or open. Some round tables come with a Lazy Susan. This is a rotating piece of wood in the center of the table. A table for use outdoors is called a picnic table.

Traditionally, tables in Japan, chabudai, are low, sometimes round tables, for tea and food.

The name of the international organization Mensa is from the Latin word for table.

[[Saitama Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Saitama Prefecture, Prefectures of Japan

Saitama Prefecture is a prefecture in the Kantō region of Japan on the island of Honshu. The capital is the city of Saitama.

[[Manatee Palms Youth Services]]

CATEGORIES: Hospitals in the United States, Buildings and structures in Florida, 2007 disestablishments in the United States, 2000s disestablishments in Florida, 2007 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Florida, 2010 disestablishments in the United States, 2010s disestablishments in Florida

Manatee Palms Youth Services is a hospital. It has 60 patients at its location in Bradenton, Florida. Manatee Palms Youth Services has been shut down by the State of Florida twice because of hurtful behavior from staff workers and nurses at its hospital. Florida will not let Manatee Palms admit any more patients because of this hurtful behavior. The State of Florida has found Manatee Palms a hospital that doesn't take care of its patients.

[[Tatsuhiko Seta]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Kashiwa Reysol players

Tatsuhiko Seta is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tadahiko Ueda]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2015 deaths, Footballers from Kyoto Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Nippon Steel Yawata SC players

Tadahiko Ueda was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Toshio Matsuura]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, NKK SC players

Toshio Matsuura is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yasuyuki Kuwahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2017 deaths, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Sanfrecce Hiroshima players, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Yasuyuki Kuwahara was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Lisandro López]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Lisandro López (born 2 March 1983) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Olympique Lyonnais and Argentina national team.

[[Carlos Jorge Neto Martins]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Carlos Jorge Neto Martins (born 29 April 1982) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Benfica.

[[Gonzalo Higuaín]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, People from Brest, France

Gonzalo Higuaín (born 10 December 1987) is an Argentine football player who plays as a striker. He plays for Inter Miami and Argentina national team. He is nicknamed El Pipita.

[[Raul Meireles]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, People from Porto

Raul Meireles (born 17 March 1983) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Porto and Portugal national team.

[[Fabio Cudicini]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Italian association football goalkeepers, People from Trieste

Fabio Cudicini (born 20 October 1935) is a former Italian football player.

[[Cristian Hidalgo]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Barcelona

Cristian Hidalgo (born 21 September 1983) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Hércules.

[[Joan Verdú]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Barcelona

Joan Verdú (born 5 May 1983) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Espanyol Barcelona.

[[Guillermo Franco]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Mexican footballers

Guillermo Franco (born 3 November 1976) is a Mexican football player. He plays for West Ham United and Mexico national team.

[[Thomas Vermaelen]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Belgian footballers

Thomas Vermaelen (born 14 November 1985) is a Belgian football player. He plays for F.C. Barcelona and Belgium national team.

[[Mauro Rosales]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Mauro Rosales (born 24 February 1981) is an Argentine football player. He plays for River Plate.

[[Steven Pienaar]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, South African footballers, People from Johannesburg

Steven Pienaar (born 17 March 1982) is a South African football player. He played for Everton and South Africa national team.

[[Japanese food]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Japanese food includes the many different styles of cooking in Japan. Every region in Japan has its own tradition about cooking. Foods eaten in Japan also reflect the history of the cultural exchange between Japan and other culture. Since the modern times, the influence of the West inspired Japanese culinary tradition to invent new dishes, some of which have become popular not only inside Japan but also outside. However, most of the culinary traditions of Japan commonly think that seasonality is important. 

[[Pointe du Hoc]]

CATEGORIES: World War II, Normandy

Pointe du Hoc is a place in the Normandy in northern France.  It has steep cliffs about 100 m high that drop down toward the sea and a very thin beach at the bottom that is underwater at high tide and dry at low tide. It was important during World War II.

In 1944, Pointe du Hoc was part of Operation Overlord, which was the biggest sea invasion in history.  During World War II, the Allied military commanders planned how to attack France, which had been captured by the German Wehrmacht. The Germans had put very large guns at Pointe du Hoc. There were six 155mm cannons in concrete forts that could shoot at Allied ships and troops that wanted to come on land at Utah Beach and Omaha Beach. 

Allied planes, flying from England, dropped bombs on Pointe du Hoc.  But they did not break the heavy artillery guns, and the Germans moved them away. 

For about five months, the U.S. Rangers trained with British commandos to prepare for their attack on France.  They practiced climbing British cliffs.   

Once the Allied commanders decided to attack France, they used flat-bottomed landing craft made to carry troops onto beaches. These special landing boats were called LCA and LCVP's or Higgins boats. British navy sailors sailed them. The boats were lowered into the sea a few kilometers away from the cliffs. The British had added some extra armour to the sides of the boats to protect them.  This made it harder for the boats to move fast and turn.

[[Welsh Premier League]]

CATEGORIES: Football leagues in the United Kingdom, Football in Wales, English Football League, 1992 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s establishments in Wales

The Dafabet Welsh Premier League is a football league which is the top division of domestic football in Wales.

[[The New Saints F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh football clubs, 1959 establishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century establishments in Wales

The New Saints F.C. is a football club which plays in Welsh Premier League.

[[French toast]]

CATEGORIES: Breakfast foods, Breads, Egg dishes

French toast is a breakfast food made by soaking bread in eggs. 

Milk, sugar or cinnamon are commonly added.  The dish is often topped with powdered sugar, butter, fruit, syrup, or other items.  According to what is popular in local cuisine, many of the spices that are added to bread or egg dishes are in cooking. 

In the United Kingdom, it is sometimes known as Eggy Bread. It is a Christmas time dessert in Portugal and Brazil called rabanada. And is an Easter dessert in Spain called torrijas.

[[John Smith (explorer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1580 births, 1631 deaths, British military people, English explorers, Governors of Virginia, Writers from Lincolnshire

John Smith (c. January 1580 – 21 June 1631) was a English soldier, explorer, and author. Smith was a leader of the first settlements at the Virginia Colony in 1608-1609.  He explored the rivers of Virginia and the Chesapeake Bay and drew a map of the Chesapeake Bay area and New England.

Smith's books and maps were very important in supporting Englishmen living in the New World.  He wrote, "Here every man may be master and owner of his own labour and land and if he has nothing but his hands, he may still grow rich."

At Jamestown Smith trained the people to farm and work so they would have food to eat.  He told them "he who shall not work, shall not eat."  Smith's strength of character and his determination overcame many problems including the harsh weather, lack of water, living in a wilderness, with people who did not want to work, and attacks from the Powhatan Indian tribes.

[[Entoprocta]]

CATEGORIES: Minor phyla

Entoprocta, or Kamptozoa, is a phylum of tiny sessile aquatic animals ranging from 0.1 to 7 millimetres (0.004 to 0.28 in) long. Mature individuals are goblet-shaped, on relatively long stalks. They are filter-feeders, with a crown of tentacles whose cilia generate water currents towards the mouth. Both the mouth and anus lie inside the crown. The superficially similar Bryozoa (Ectoprocta) have the anus outside a 'crown' of hollow tentacles. Most families of entoprocts are colonial, and all but 2 of the 150 species are marine. A few solitary species can move slowly.

Some species eject unfertilized ova into the water while others keep their ova in brood chambers until they hatch, and some of these species use placenta-like organs to nourish the developing eggs. After hatching, the larvae swim for a short time and then settle on a surface. There they metamorphose, and the larval gut generally rotates by up to 180°, so that the mouth and anus face upwards. Both colonial and solitary species also reproduce by cloning.

Some species of nudibranchs (sea slugs) and flatworms prey on entoprocts. A few entoproct species have been found living in close association with other animals. 

Fossils of entoprocts are very rare and the earliest specimens that have been identified with confidence date from the Upper Jurassic. Most studies from 1996 onwards have regarded entoprocts as members of the Trochozoa, which also includes molluscs and annelids. However, a study in 2008 concluded that entoprocts are closely related to bryozoans.

[[5000 metres]]

CATEGORIES: Running

The 5000 metres (about 3.1 mi or 16,404 ft) is a popular running distance.  It is also known as a 5K or 5 km.  Colloquially it is called a "five-K".  It is one of the track events in the Olympic Games and the World Championships in Athletics.  "5000 metres" refers to racing on a track. "5K" usually refers to a roadrace or cross country event. While mainly run as an outdoor event, the 5000 m is sometimes run on an indoor track. Official records are kept for both outdoor and indoor 5000 m track events, but not for 5 km road races.

Much of the distance's popularity is due to the challenge it gives to both amateurs and professionals.  It is a distance race that demands a great deal of endurance as well as speed.  Strategies also play a key role, and the combination makes it attractive to many.

[[Sportcity (sports ground)]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in the United Kingdom, Manchester

Sportcity Manchester is a sports area in eastern Manchester.  It became famous as host of the 2002 Commonwealth Games. It hosts the regional base for the English Institute of Sport. It has athletics tracks, The National Squash Centre, The Regional Tennis Centre, the Manchester Velodrome and the City of Manchester Stadium. It was also the proposed location for the "SuperCasino". But the plan was rejected by the House of Lords.

[[Oakwell]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, 1888 establishments in England

Oakwell is a sports development in Barnsley, South Yorkshire, England.  It is used mostly by Barnsley Football Club for playing their home games.  It is also used by their reserve team.

While the name "Oakwell" is usually used for the main stadium, it also includes several neighbouring venues which form the facilities of the Barnsley F.C. academy.  This includes an indoor training pitch, a smaller stadium with seating on the south and west sides for around 2,200 spectators, and several training pitches used by the different Barnsley FC teams.

Until 2003 the stadium and the large amount of land that is around it was owned by Barnsley Football Club. However, after falling into administration in 2002 the council purchased the main Oakwell Stadium.  This allowed the club to pay its creditors and remain participants in The Football League.

[[Cortisol]]

CATEGORIES: Steroid hormones

Cortisol also called the stress hormone, is produced in the adrenal gland. It is a steroid hormone. Cortisol's purpose is to help the body:

[[Ryszard Kaczorowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2010 deaths, Aviation deaths, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George, Presidents of Poland

Ryszard Kaczorowski (born 26 November  1919 in Białystok - died 10 April 2010 in Smolensk, near Katyn Forest) was a Polish politician and statesman. He was the last President of Poland within Government in Exile. It originated from early days of the World War II and was internationally recognized until 1945. 

Kaczorowski was active in Polish scouting movement, organized anti-Soviet resistance in 1939-1940. He was arrested, sentenced to death, which was commuted to 10 years of hard labour. He was then released in 1941. He joined Anders Army and fought in a battle of Monte Cassino. Kaczorowski decided to remain in exile in the United Kingdom after the establishment of the communist government. He worked for many years as economist, but never became a British citizen. He was active in emigree circles. He was the head of exiled Polish scouting for example.

After retirement, he became Minister of Home Affairs. In exile, he was named designated successor for President Kazimierz Sabbat. He succeeded the office on 19 July 1989 following Sabbat sudden death.

After the popular election of Lech Wałęsa for President of Poland in 1990, Kaczorowski handed presidential insignia of pre-War Poland to him. The Government in Exile ended its historical activity and recognized the new Third Republic of Poland.

Although he largely was not involved in partisan politics, Kaczorowski remained an active figure after his Presidency. He visited Poland frequently (as he lived permanently in London) and participated in many events.

In 1952 he married academic Karolina Kaczorowska. They were married until his death in 2010.

He died in a presidential plane crash with President Lech Kaczyński on 10 April 2010 in Russia. His body was buried in state in Warsaw's Belvedere Palace. His crypt was buried in the National Temple of Divine Providence in Warsaw. 

[[Periodic function]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In mathematics, a periodic function is a function which has a repeated pattern (a period) which is continued infinitely.

[[List of series]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics lists

This list of mathematical series contains formulae for finite and infinite sums. It can be used in conjunction with other tools for evaluating sums.

[[Manchester City Council]]

CATEGORIES: Manchester

Manchester City Council is the local government for Manchester.  Manchester is a city and metropolitan borough in Greater Manchester, England.  It is made up of 96 councillors.  There are three for each of the 32 wards. Currently the council is controlled by the Labour Party. It is led by Sir Richard Leese. Much of the council and local civil service is located at Manchester Town Hall and the Town Hall Extension, in the city's commercial centre.

[[Lord Don't Slow Me Down]]

CATEGORIES: Oasis (band), 2007 movies, Documentary movies

Lord Don't Slow Me Down is a rockumentary movie.  It looks back on British band Oasis' Don't Believe the Truth world tour.  The tour took place from May 2005 to March 2006.  The movie is directed by Baillie Walsh. It went platinum in the UK.

[[Kea]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of New Zealand, Parrots

The kea (Nestor notabilis) is a large species of parrot found in forest and alpine regions of the South Island of New Zealand. It is mostly olive-green and has a large narrow curved grey-brown upper beak. The kea is the only alpine parrot in the world.

Kea are known for their intelligence and curiosity, both needed for their survival in a harsh mountain environment.

Kea like playing with human objects. They like to tear the rubber off car windows and moving around traffic cones.

[[Billabong (lake)]]

CATEGORIES: Bodies of water of Australia

Billabong is an Australian English word meaning a small lake left behind by a river when its course changes. 

Billabongs appear often in Australian literature. One of the most famous is in the opening line of the famous folk song "Waltzing Matilda".

[[Antonio Di Natale]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Antonio Di Natale (born 13 October 1977) is an Italian football player. He plays for Udinese and Italy national team.

[[Yuya Chiba]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Iwate Prefecture

Yuya Chiba (born 20 April 1986) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryo Okawara]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Gunma Prefecture

Ryo Okawara (born 12 October 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tonan Maebashi.

[[Matteo Paro]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Matteo Paro (born 17 March 1983) is an Italian football player. He plays for Piacenza.

[[Atsushi Yamaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Atsushi Yamaguchi (born 8 July 1980) is a Japanese football player.

[[Noriaki Tsutsui]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Noriaki Tsutsui (born 15 August 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ryunosuke Okamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Okayama Prefecture

Ryunosuke Okamoto (born 9 October 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Osaka.

[[Atsushi Matsuura]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture

Atsushi Matsuura (born 28 December 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takuto Koyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Takuto Koyama (born 27 December 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Banditonce Kakogawa.

[[Pablo Zabaleta]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Manchester City F.C. players, Sportspeople from Buenos Aires

Pablo Zabaleta (born 16 January 1985) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Manchester City.

[[Daniel Bilos]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Daniel Bilos (born 3 September 1980) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for the Argentina national team.

[[Yohei Taniike]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Yohei Taniike (born 5 April 1977) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sony Sendai.

[[Mohamed Abdelwahab]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2006 deaths, Egyptian footballers

Mohamed Abdelwahab (1 October 1983 – 31 August 2006) is a former Egyptian football player. He has played for Egypt's national team.

[[Jérémy Toulalan]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, French footballers, People from Nantes

Jérémy Toulalan (born 10 September 1983) is a French football player. He plays for Olympique Lyonnais and France national team.

[[Chris Eagles]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from Hertfordshire, Premier League players

Chris Eagles (born 19 November 1985) is a English footballer. He plays for Burnley.

[[Velvet]]

CATEGORIES: Cloth

Velvet is a type of woven tufted fabric in which the cut threads are very evenly distributed, with a short dense pile, giving it a distinctly smooth feel.

Velvet can be made from many different fibres. It is woven on a special loom that weaves two pieces of velvet at the same time. The two pieces are then cut apart and the two lengths of fabric are wound on separate take-up rolls. Velvet is difficult to clean due to its pile, but modern dry cleaning methods perform well.

Velvet is made, ideally, from silk. More recently, synthetic velvets have been developed, mostly polyester, nylon, viscose, acetate, and mixtures of different synthetics, or synthetics and natural fibers (e.g. viscose and silk). A small percentage of lycra is used sometimes to give stretch.

[[Carlos Tenorio]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Ecuadorian footballers

Carlos Tenorio (born 14 May 1979) is an Ecuadorian football player. He plays for Al-Nasr Dubai and Ecuador national team.

[[Niko Kovač]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Croatian footballers, Croatian football managers

Niko Kovač (born 15 October 1971) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for Croatia national team.

[[Investigative reporters]]

 

[[Eric Djemba-Djemba]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Cameroonian footballers

Eric Djemba-Djemba (born 4 May 1981) is a Cameroonian football player. He plays for Odense and Cameroon national team.

[[Nemertea]]

CATEGORIES: Minor phyla

Nemertea is a phylum of invertebrate animals also known as ribbon worms or proboscis worms. Most of the 1,400 or so species are marine, with a few living in fresh water and a small number of terrestrial forms. They live in all marine habitats, and throughout the world's oceans. Alternative spellings for the phylum have included Nemertini and Nemertinea. Rhynchocoela is a name used primarily in North America but gradually abandoned since the 1980s.

[[WebKit]]

CATEGORIES: Web browsers, Free software

WebKit is a layout engine made to let web browsers show web pages. The WebKit engine has a set of classes to display web content in windows, and implements browser features such as following links when clicked by the person using the web browser (the user), managing a back-forward list, and keeping a history of pages recently visited.

WebKit was first made to be used as the layout engine for Safari, and is portable to many other computing platforms. 

WebKit's WebCore and JavaScriptCore parts are available under the GNU Lesser General Public License, and the rest of WebKit is available under a BSD-style license.

[[Choi Jin-sil]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2008 deaths, South Korean movie actors, South Korean television actors, People who committed suicide

Choi Jin-sil (born in December 24, 1968 – died October 2, 2008) was a South Korean actress, considered one of the best actresses in the country. She debuted in the eighties and played the leading role in 18 movies, 20 television dramas and 140 commercials. She died through suicide.

[[Cristal Racecourse]]

CATEGORIES: Horse racing, Porto Alegre

The Cristal Racecourse a race track for horse racing in Porto Alegre, Brazil. It is the center of  most important horse races in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. It was designed by architect Román Fresnedo Siri. It is an example of modern architecture in South America.

Horse races take place in on Thursdays. A major event is the Grande Premio Bento Goncalves (in November).

[[Speed reading]]

CATEGORIES: Literature

Speed reading is the name for a number of ways to increase the speed at which a text can be read, so that the important facts of the text can still be understood. There are different ways to improve reading speed, but they are all similar. A trained reader is able to read and understand between 200 and 300 words per minute, for a text that is not very difficult to understand. Better training can improve this speed to over 1000 words per minute. Using a lot of exercise, it is possible to increase reading speed further. The best readers can read between 3000 and 4000 words per minute, and understand about 80% of them.

[[Abu Dhabi United Group]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Asia, United Arab Emirates

The Abu Dhabi United Group for Development and Investment (ADUG) is a United Arab Emirates (UAE) private equity company owned by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan. He is a member of the Abu Dhabi Royal Family. He is also the Minister of Presidential Affairs for the UAE. It was first thought that Abu Dhabi United Group is a part of Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, a sovereign wealth fund owned by Abu Dhabi. But Abu Dhabi United Group had denied connection to the government of Abu Dhabi.

The Group bought Manchester City Football Club.  The deal was announced on 1 September 2008. It was made between the club’s former owner Thaksin Shinawatra, former Prime Minister of Thailand, and ADUG.

The American educated Sulaiman Al-Fahim was the public face of ADUG during the beginning of the takeover.  He is often called the "Donald Trump of Abu Dhabi". The takeover was completed on 23 September 2008.

[[Maine Road]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 establishments in England, 2003 disestablishments in England, Football stadiums in England, Sport in Manchester

Maine Road was a large football stadium in Moss Side, Manchester, England. It was home to Manchester City F.C. from when it was built in 1923 until 2003. It takes its name from the street it was built on which also had a remarkable history. The street was first known as Dog Kennel Lane.  It formed part of an ancient route south of Manchester.

When first opened, the stadium was the largest club ground in England and the second largest in the country after Wembley Stadium. Maine Road's record attendance was set in 1934, when 84,569 people attended an FA Cup tie between Manchester City and Stoke City.  It is the record for an English club ground (the 1923 FA Cup Final holds the world record). The following February the stadium recorded the highest Football League attendance. This stood at 79,491 for a game against Arsenal. The record has since been beaten for the League, but it is  still Manchester City's largest League crowd. The design of the ground changed several times over its 80-year history. Before it closed, Maine Road was an all-seater stadium, with a capacity of 35,150.

The 2002-03 season was Manchester City's last at Maine Road. The last match was played on 11 May 2003. The following season Manchester City moved to City of Manchester Stadium in east Manchester. Maine Road was torn down in 2004.

[[Rockefeller]]

Rockefeller might mean:

It may also refer to:

[[List of English football stadiums by capacity]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in England, Lists about England, Sports lists

This is a list of English football stadiums.  It is ranked in descending order of capacity.

There are a large number of football stadiums and pitches in England and Wales, so this list does not have all of them. It includes:

A person who has watched a match at the stadiums of all 92 Premier League and Football League clubs in England may apply to join The 92 Club.

[[John D. Rockefeller]]

CATEGORIES: American billionaires, Businesspeople from New York, Rockefeller family, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Florida, 1839 births, 1937 deaths, Deaths from arteriosclerosis

John Davison Rockefeller  (July 8, 1839 – May 23, 1937) was an American businessman.  He controlled an oil company called Standard Oil, which sold most of the oil in the United States in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. He was the first billionaire in world history. He is considered to be the richest man in American history, and one of the richest men in the history of the world.

Today, the money he made would be worth more than half a trillion dollars.  He used the large amounts of money he had to do various things, including starting the University of Chicago, funding important medical research, and giving the land for the General Assembly Building of the United Nations.

Rockefeller was born in Richford, New York. He died in Ormond Beach, Florida from arteriosclerosis, aged 97.

[[2008 UEFA Cup Final]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in association football, 2008 in England, Sport in Manchester, UEFA, 2000s in Manchester

The 2008 UEFA Cup Final was the 37th final of the UEFA Cup. It is UEFA's second-tier club football tournament. The match was played at the City of Manchester Stadium. It is the home stadium of Manchester City F.C., in Manchester, England, at 20:45 CEST (19:45 local time) on 14 May 2008.

The match was played by Zenit St. Petersburg of Russia and Rangers of Scotland. It was called a battle of Rangers coaching staff, with ex-boss Dick Advocaat, currently the manager of Zenit against current boss Walter Smith. Smith has had two times as manager of Rangers. Both coaches led the Rangers to the Scottish domestic treble; Smith in 1993 and Advocaat in 1999.

Zenit won the match 2–0. They had goals from Igor Denisov and Konstantin Zyryanov. It was their first UEFA Cup title. It made them only the second Russian side to win the competition, after CSKA Moscow in 2004–05.

The logo of the final shows a picture of the City of Manchester Stadium, created by English artist Liam Spencer. It was first shown at a ceremony in the stadium on December 6.

[[UEFA stadium categories]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA, Football stadiums in Europe

UEFA stadium categories are categories for football stadiums laid out in the UEFA Stadium Infrastructure Regulations. Using these regulations, stadiums are rated as category one, two, three, or elite (in order going up). These categories replaced the old method of ranking stadiums as four or five star in 2006. A stadium must be categorised as elite to host the final of the UEFA Champions League or the UEFA Europa League. These are UEFA's two top club competitions. 

[[Biricodar]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Cancer treatment

Biricodar is dicitrate salt called Incel. It is a pharmaceutical drug made by Vertex Pharmaceuticals in 1999 to help treat ovarian cancer patients.

[[The Futureheads]]

CATEGORIES: English punk bands

The Futureheads are a four-piece English, punk band from Sunderland. Their name comes from the title of The Flaming Lips album, Hit to Death in the Future Head.

[[Dicynodont]]

CATEGORIES: Therapsids

The Dicynodontia are a sub-group of the extinct animals called therapsids. They were small to large herbivorous (plant-eating) animals with two tusks; 'dicynodont' means 'two dog tooth'. They are also the most successful and diverse of the non-mammalian therapsids, with over 70 genera (types) known.

All of them had the same basic body plan. They were built like small tanks, with sturdy legs at each corner. They were not fast movers, but were obviously strong and lived in groups rather as many plant-eaters do today. Their body shape was similar to certain types of modern mammals such as pigs and rhinoceros. 

Fossils discovered in Poland indicate that dicynodonts survived at least until about 200 million years ago (the Upper Triassic period. Six fragments of fossil skull bone discovered in Australia (Queensland) may indicate that dicynodonts survived much longer, until about 150 million years ago (the Cretaceous period) in the region called the southern Gondwana.

The dicynodonts were a group of therapsids, but were not ancestors to the mammals. The group which evolved into mammals was the cynodonts.

[[Lassana Diarra]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, French footballers, Sportspeople from Paris

Lassana Diarra (born 10 March 1985) is a French football player. He plays for Real Madrid and France national team.

[[Jiří Jarošík]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Czech footballers

Jiří Jarošík (born 27 October 1977) is a Czech football player. He has played for Czech Republic national team.

[[Besian Idrizaj]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, 1987 births, 2010 deaths, Crystal Palace F.C. players

Besian Idrizaj (12 October 1987 – 15 May 2010) was an Austrian football player. He played for Swansea City.

[[Kim Wi-Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, North Korean footballers

Kim Wi-Man (born 23 June 1979) is a North Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Ryota Arimitsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Ryota Arimitsu (born 21 April 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for V-Varen Nagasaki.

[[Zak Whitbread]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, American footballers, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas

Zak Whitbread (born 4 March 1984) is an American soccer player. He plays for Norwich City.

[[Giuseppe Favalli]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Giuseppe Favalli (born 8 January 1972) is an Italian football player. He plays for Milan.

[[Paul McShane]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Irish footballers, People from County Wicklow

Paul McShane (born 6 January 1986) is an Irish football player. He plays for Hull City and Republic of Ireland national team.

[[Rio Mavuba]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, French footballers

Rio Mavuba (born 8 March 1984) is a French football player. He plays for Lille.

[[Didier Agathe]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers, People from Réunion

Didier Agathe (born 16 August 1975) is a French football manager and former player. He is currently manager of Durham City.

[[Yuki Hamano]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Yuki Hamano (born 23 June 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kataller Toyama.

[[Oscar Ruggeri]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers

Oscar Ruggeri (born 26 January 1962 Rosario) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for the Argentina national team.

[[South Park Mexican]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American Christians, American prisoners, American rap musicians from Texas, American sex offenders, Child sexual abusers, Criminals from Texas, Drug dealers, Singers from Houston, Texas

Carlos Coy (Born in October 5, 1970 in Houston, Texas) is a American rapper better known under the stage name, South Park Mexican. 

Before starting a musical career, Coy worked at a chemical plant for minimum wage, as a door-to-door perfume salesman and eventually a crack cocaine dealer.

South Park Mexican started out as a Christian rapper but quit feeling he would not be recognized. In 1995, he co-founded his own record label, Dope House Records along with his brother Arthur Jr. and his friend Jose Antonio Garza.

On May 18, 2002, he was convicted of aggravated sexual assault of a child by a Houston jury, was sentenced to 45 years in prison and was ordered to pay a $10,000 fine. He is serving his sentence at Allred Unit in Wichita Falls, Texas. He is eligible for parole in 2024.

[[2004 Rugby League Tri-Nations]]

CATEGORIES: Rugby

The second Rugby League Tri-Nations tournament (known as the Gillette Tri-Nations due to sponsorship) was played between 16 October and 27 November of 2004. The format of the competition was different from the previous event.  In that event the teams played each other twice instead of once before the final.

The tournament final of the tournament was predicted by some to be a close affair. The British team was considered a small favourite after finishing at the top of the league table. Instead, it was a one-sided match as Australia produced their best performance of the tournament. The game was basically over by half-time when Australia led by 38-0.

[[Delray, Detroit]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan

Delray is a neighborhood in the city of Detroit in the United States.

[[Gneiss]]

CATEGORIES: Metamorphic rocks

Gneiss is a type of metamorphic rock. The minerals in gneiss may come from rocks which were originally either igneous or sedimentary. They were heated and squeezed, and the minerals recrystallized.

Orthogneiss is gneiss got from igneous rock (such as granite). Paragneiss is gneiss got from sedimentary rock (such as sandstone).

In gneisses, minerals tend to be foliated: layered and segregated into bands. Thus there are seams of quartz and of mica in a mica schist, very thin, but consisting essentially of one mineral.

[[Hiroki Kishida]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Hiroki Kishida (born 7 June 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Fagiano Okayama.

[[Yoshiyuki Shinoda]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture

Yoshiyuki Shinoda (born 18 June 1971) is a former Japanese football player.

[[David Sommeil]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, French footballers, Guadeloupe

David Sommeil (born 10 August 1974) is a former Guadeloupean football player. He has played for Guadeloupe national team.

[[Yakubu Aiyegbeni]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Nigerian footballers

Yakubu Aiyegbeni (born 22 November 1982) is a Nigerian football player. He plays for Everton and Nigeria national team.

[[Colin Bell]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, People with cancer, English footballers, Sportspeople from County Durham

Colin Bell (26 February 1946 – 5 January 2021) was an English footballer. He played for England national team.

Bell was diagnosed with bowel cancer in 2005. He died on 5 January 2021, aged 74.

[[Malir District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Sindh, Karachi

Malir District (ضلع ملیر) is in the western part of Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. Area wise it is the largest district of Karachi Division. The District is mostly consisting of rural area. Many agriculture farms are also there. Hub Dam and Kirthar National Park are also located within the boundary of this District.

[[Carl Levin]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians, United States senators from Michigan, 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, 20th-century American politicians, 21st-century American politicians

Carl Milton Levin (June 28, 1934 – July 29, 2021) was an American politician. He was a United States Senator of Michigan from 1979 to 2015. On March 7, 2013, Levin announced his retirement. He was a member of the Democratic Party. 

[[Lights Out]]

CATEGORIES: Rick Astley songs, 2010 songs

"Lights Out'" is a pop song by English singer Rick Astley. It was his first mainstream single in England for almost 17 years. The song was performed for the first time on Peter Kay's 2010 Tour, that took place at the MEN Arena, Manchester on 27 April 2010. Astley was a special guest and performed a medley of his old hits before his new song.

"Lights Out" was released on 7 June 2010 and was first broadcast on the Ken Bruce show on BBC Radio 2.

[[John Engler]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Governors of Michigan, 1948 births

John Mathias Engler (born October 12, 1948) once was governor of Michigan.

Engler was born in Mount Pleasant and grew up in Beal City. He went to college at Michigan State University. He became a member of the Michigan House of Representatives in 1970. He became governor of Michigan in 1991. His term ended in 2003.

[[Mount Pleasant, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan

Mount Pleasant is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan. It is where Central Michigan University is.

[[Román Fresnedo Siri]]

CATEGORIES: Architects, 1975 deaths, 1903 births, Uruguayan people

Roman Fresnedo Siri (Salto, Uruguay, February 4, 1903 - Montevideo, June 26, 1975) was an Uruguayan architect.

[[Photomask]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Electronic components

In electronics manufacturing, a photomask is a special stencil which is used in photolithography to create a printed circuit board or integrated circuit. When light is shone through the photomask, certain parts where the light hits the unused circuit board are strengthened, much like what toothpaste does to the hard surfaces your teeth. When a circuit board is put through an acid bath, the parts where the light shone through the photomask stay in place, while the parts that were covered by the shadow of the photomask are eaten away by the acid. There are two prominent types of masks. "Contact" masks, which touch the surface of the silicon wafer directly. These masks are cheaper, at the price of being less precise. "Proximity" masks are placed near to, but not touching the wafer. These masks are much more expensive, but also a lot more precise. Another type is "Projection" masks, also known as "reticles", which only contain the pattern of one chip, instead of the pattern of the whole wafer.

[[Gastrotrich]]

CATEGORIES: Minor phyla

The Gastrotricha, often called hairy backs, are a phylum of microscopic (0.06-3.0 mm) animals abundant in fresh water and marine environments. Marine species are found mostly in between sediment particles, while terrestrial species live in the water films around grains of soil. Adults have a fixed cell number. About 700 species have been described.

[[Liam Ridgewell]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, English footballers, Actors from London, Premier League players

Liam Ridgewell (born 21 July 1984) is an English football player. He plays for Birmingham City.

[[Fábio Rochemback]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Fábio Rochemback (born 10 December 1981) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Yasuomi Kugisaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture

Yasuomi Kugisaki (釘崎康臣,くぎさき やすおみ,born 3 May 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Honda Lock.

[[Shingo Honda]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Shingo Honda (born 23 November 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Matsumoto Yamaga.

[[Kengo Takushima]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture, Avispa Fukuoka players

Kengo Takushima is a Japanese football player.

In the off-season, he has been also active as a futsal player in Fukuoka.

[[Tadaomi Yasuda]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture, Avispa Fukuoka players

Tadaomi Yasuda is a Japanese football player.

In 2012, he became a coach in the Avispa Fukuoka organization. 

[[Mitsunori Izutani]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Mitsunori Izutani (born 27 June 1983) is a Japanese football player.

[[Shingo Hoshino]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Shingo Hoshino (born 2 May 1978) is a Japanese football player.

[[Koichi Kawai]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture

Koichi Kawai (born 29 March 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Kazuhisa Hamaoka]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Kazuhisa Hamaoka (born 28 February 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi UVA.

[[Kenta Kawai]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Ehime Prefecture, Japanese football managers

Kenta Kawai (born 7 June 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[François Clerc]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, French footballers

François Clerc (born 18 April 1983) is a French football player. He plays for Olympique Lyonnais.

[[Shigeru Sakurai]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Shigeru Sakurai (born 29 June 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vegalta Sendai.

[[Masayuki Ota]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Masayuki Ota (born 17 June 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Ralf Edström]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Ralf Edström (born 7 October 1952) is a former Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.

[[Yuta Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Yuta Suzuki (born 28 May 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.

[[Hand axe]]

CATEGORIES: Anthropology, Cutting tools, Stone Age

[[Key 103]]

CATEGORIES: Radio stations in the United Kingdom, 1988 establishments in England

Key 103 is an independent local radio station that broadcasts to the city of Manchester and the north west of England. It mostly plays current pop and dance music. It used to be owned by Trans World Communications and EMAP.  Now it is owned by Bauer Radio. It is part of the company's Big City Network of stations. The station is based in Castlefield, Manchester. It was first named Piccadilly Radio, from its set up in 1974.  It was renamed in August 1988 when it was decided to re-brand Piccadilly Radio's FM frequency to the new name, with a younger target audience in mind. The original Piccadilly Radio continued to broadcast on the AM frequency of 1152 kHz. 

The station broadcasts on the analogue frequency 103 FM, from a 4 kW transmitter on Saddleworth Moor. It broadcasts on DAB Digital Radio from City Tower (formerly Sunley Tower) on the CE Manchester multiplex. Key 103's live broadcast can also be listened to from their website, but only from inside the UK.

The station won three awards at the 2008 Sony radio awards. These consisted of Bronze in the entertainment category for the breakfast show 'Toolan in the Morning', Gold in the competition award for 'Sell Me The Answer' and Gold in the Station of the Year category. As of 2008/9, Key 103 and its sister station Piccadilly Magic 1152 are the official commercial radio partners of Manchester United and Manchester City, broadcasting all of both clubs' games live.

[[Brian McBride]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American footballers, People from Arlington Heights, Illinois, Sportspeople from Illinois

Brian McBride (born June 19, 1972) is an American soccer player. He has played for United States national team.

[[Ognjen Koroman]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Ognjen Koroman (born 19 September 1978) is a Serbian football player. He has played for Serbia national team.

[[2002–03 UEFA Cup]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA, 2002 in association football, 2002 in Europe, 2003 in association football, 2003 in Europe

The 2002–03 UEFA Cup was won by Porto. Porto defeated Celtic 3-2 in a final decided by a goal in extra time.

[[Yaya Touré]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Ivorian footballers, Manchester City F.C. players

Yaya Touré (born 13 May 1983) is a Côte d'Ivoire football player. He plays for Manchester City and Côte d'Ivoire national team.

[[Roger Lemerre]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, French footballers, French football managers

Roger Lemerre (born 18 June 1941) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Rochdale]]

CATEGORIES: Rochdale

Rochdale is a market town in the North West of England. It is to the north-east of Manchester. It is part of Greater Manchester. Rochdale was part of Lancashire until 1 April 1974.

[[C2 Green Tea]]

CATEGORIES: Tea, Filipino culture, Asian foods

[[Ashton-under-Lyne]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Greater Manchester

Ashton-Under-Lyne is a town and the headquarters in the Tameside metropolitan county of Greater Manchester.

[[Universal Robina]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the Philippines, Food companies

Universal Robina Corporation is one of the largest food companies in the Phillipines. URC is a listed as a subsidiary of JG Summit Holdings. This is founded in 1950's by John Gokongwei and it now ventured into packaging, animal food, snacks and beverages sold in more than 50 countries.  

The company is famous for its Nips candy, which looks and tastes like M&Ms. Nips are remembered by children from the Philippines.

[[Tameside]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Greater Manchester

Tameside is a town in the North West of England. It is to the east of Manchester, Ashton-Under-Lyne is the headquarters. It is part of Greater Manchester. Oldham was part of Cheshire until the 1970s.

[[Sun Cellular]]

CATEGORIES: Mobile phone companies, Companies of the Philippines, Quezon City

Digitel Mobile Philippines, Inc., is a mobile telecommunication service provider in the Philippines doing business as Sun Cellular. The company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Digital Telecommunications Philippines, or Digitel. Digitel is in turn owned by the JG Summit Group with a minority stake held by the TeliaSonera Group. It is assigned to access codes of 922, 923, 932 and 933. It began its operations in 2003, positioned as a latecomer in the market allowed it to put up infrastructure at lower cost.

Sun Cellular gained popularity because of its "24/7" offer of unlimited text messaging and calls for a fixed price for Sun-to-Sun transactions. This led competing networks Smart Communications and Globe Telecom to offer similar but higher-cost plans.

As of March 2010, Sun Cellular has 12 million subscribers.

[[Joey Scarbury]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Singers from Los Angeles, California

Joey Scarbury (born June 7, 1955) is an adult contemporary singer best known for his hit song, "Theme from The Greatest American Hero (Believe It or Not)", in 1981.

Growing up in Thousand Oaks, California, Scarbury was continually encouraged in his ambition to sing by his mother. At the age of 14, after being spotted by songwriter Jimmy Webb's father, he was signed to a recording contract, and seemed to be destined for stardom. Scarbury's first single, "She Never Smiles Anymore," flopped, and he was soon without a record label. 

Scarbury, undaunted by what happened, stayed in music up through the 1970s singing backup for artists like Loretta Lynn, and occasionally recording his own material. Although he had a minor chart single with "Mixed Up Guy" in 1971, real chart success eluded him for the rest of the decade. This was to change when he started working for record producer and composer Mike Post. Post was hired along with Stephen Geyer to write the theme tune for a new TV series dubbed The Greatest American Hero, about a high school teacher who comes into possession of a superhero outfit, and Scarbury was chosen to record it. An extended version of the song (3:15 compared to the television theme's minute-long length), released by Elektra Records, shot up to #2 on the Billboard Hot 100. 

Scarbury could not follow it up however, and after charting at #49 with the single "When She Dances", Scarbury disappeared again from the charts. Scarbury went on to work with Post again in the mid 1980s to record the song "Back to Back", for the television series Hardcastle and McCormick and teamed up with Desiree Goyette to record "Flashbeagle" for the Peanuts special It's Flashbeagle, Charlie Brown. He also performed the opening theme for the television series Jennifer Slept Here.

In 1990, Scarbury found success again as a songwriter. This time, his co-written song "No Matter How High" was recorded by The Oak Ridge Boys and was a number one country music hit. His co-writer on this song was Even Stevens who previously had found success with co-writing songs for country star Eddie Rabbitt, as well as the Kenny Rogers hit "Love Will Turn You Around" from the motion picture Six Pack.

His hit song from The Greatest American Hero appeared in Michael Moore's film Fahrenheit 9/11 on the scene when President George W. Bush declares the Iraq Mission Accomplished.

In 2008, Joey was back on the radio after a long absence. His single "How Do You Sleep At Night" broke the top 40.

[[Kenny Rankin]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2009 deaths, American jazz musicians, Singer-songwriters from New York, Deaths from lung cancer, Singers from New York City

Kenny Rankin (February 10, 1940 - June 7, 2009) was an American pop and jazz singer and songwriter. He was originally from the Washington Heights neighborhood of New York City, New York.

[[Sarah Geronimo]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Filipino movie actors, Filipino actors, Filipino singers, People from Manila

Sarah Geronimo's signature

Sarah Asher Tua Geronimo (born July 25, 1988) is a Filipina actress and singer. She started her career at a young age, and became famous after she won the Star for a Night singing contest. Her first album was Popstar: A Dream Come True.

[[Bolton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Greater Manchester

Bolton (called Bolton le moors in the past) is a town in the North West of England. It is to the north-west of Manchester. It is part of Greater Manchester. Bolton was part of Lancashire until the 1970s. It was famous for its cotton industry.

[[Mount Pleasant]]

Mount Pleasant may mean:

[[Jonathan Edwards (athlete)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, BBC television presenters, British male athletes, British Olympic gold medalists, British Olympic silver medalists, Triple jumpers, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, Commonwealth Games medallists, English atheists, English television presenters, Former Christians, Sportspeople from London, Television personalities from London, World record holders

Jonathan David Edwards, CBE, (born 10 May 1966 in London) is a former British triple jumper. He is a former Olympic, Commonwealth, European and World champion. He has held the world record in the event since 1995.

After his retirement as an athlete, Edwards has worked as an athletics commentator and presenter for BBC television. He was a devout Christian.  He presented episodes of the BBC Christian worship programme Songs of Praise. He lost faith in 2007. He was a member of the London Organising Committee for the Olympic Games in 2012. He is President of the Wenlock Olympian Society.

[[Explosion protection]]

CATEGORIES: Explosives, Buildings and structures, Terrorism

Explosion protection is meant to protect buildings and other civil engineering objects against internal and external explosions. It was widely believed until recently that a building subject to an explosive attack had a chance to remain standing only if it possessed some extraordinary resistive capacity.  This belief rested on the assumption that the blast load was fully beyond our control.

[[2007–08 UEFA Cup]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA, 2007 in association football, 2008 in association football, 2007 in Europe, 2008 in Europe

The 2007–08 UEFA Cup was the 37th UEFA Cup. It is UEFA's second-level club football tournament. The final was played at the City of Manchester Stadium, Manchester, England on 14 May 2008. The final was played between Rangers of Scotland and Zenit St. Petersburg of Russia. Zenit won the match 2–0, with goals from Igor Denisov and Konstantin Zyryanov. It was their first UEFA Cup title. The first qualifying games were played on 19 July 2007. The main tournament began on 20 September 2007. A total of 123 football clubs took part in the tournament (including its qualifying rounds).

Each European football nation is represented by a different number of its clubs. This number depends on the UEFA coefficients. One new nation has entered their Cup winner and second-placed football team: Montenegro.

The tournament's top scorers were Pavel Pogrebnyak of Zenit St. Petersburg and Luca Toni of Bayern Munich, each with 10 goals.

[[Žydrūnas Ilgauskas]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Lithuanian basketball players, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Miami Heat players, People from Kaunas

Žydrūnas Ilgauskas (born June 5, 1975 in Kaunas, Lithuania) is a retired Lithuanian basketball player who played 13 seasons in the NBA. He played 12 seasons with the for the Cleveland Cavaliers and 1 season with the Miami Heat. He retired from basketball in September 2011 to spend more time with his family.

[[David L. Paterson]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, American screenwriters, writers from Washington, D.C.

David Lord Paterson (born 1966) is an American screenwriter, actor and producer.  He is the son of Katherine Paterson, the author of Bridge to Terabithia.

When Paterson was a boy, his best friend, an eight-year-old girl named Lisa Hill, was struck by lightning and killed.  His mother, Katherine Paterson, used this real-life experience to write her children's novel Bridge to Terabithia. David Paterson produced and co-wrote the screenplay for the film adaptation of the novel released in 2007.

He graduated from The Catholic University of America in 1989 with a BA. Paterson held a special advance screening of Bridge to Terabithia on February 1, 2007, for members of the CUA community at the AFI Silver Theatre  in Silver Spring, Maryland.

[[Horst Köppel]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, German footballers, Sportspeople from Stuttgart

Horst Köppel (born 17 May 1948) is a former German football player. He has played for Germany national team.

[[Henrique Hilário]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers, Association football goalkeepers, People from Porto

Henrique Hilário (born 21 October 1975) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Chelsea and Portugal national team.

[[Gavin McCann]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Lancashire, Premier League players

Gavin McCann (born 10 January 1978) is an English football player. He plays for Bolton Wanderers.

[[Evander Sno]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Dordrecht, Sportspeople from South Holland

Evander Sno (born 9 April 1987) is a Dutch football player. During the 2009/2010 season he was loaned out to Bristol City by Ajax.

[[Andreas Ivanschitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, UEFA Euro 2008 players

Andreas Ivanschitz (born 15 October 1983) is an Austrian football player. He plays for Mainz and Austria national team as midfielder.

[[Andrew Johnson (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Bedford, Sportspeople from Bedfordshire, Crystal Palace F.C. players

Andrew Johnson (born 10 February 1981) is an English footballer. He plays for Fulham.

[[Alessandro Pistone]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Alessandro Pistone (born 27 July 1975) is a former Italian football player.

[[Dedê]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Belo Horizonte

Dedê (born 18 April 1978) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Borussia Dortmund.

[[Élber Giovane]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Élber Giovane (born 23 July 1972) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazilian national team.

[[Tsukasa Hosaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2018 deaths, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, JEF United Chiba players, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Deaths from pneumonia

Tsukasa Hosaka was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Chung Yong-dae]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Chung Yong-dae (정용대; Hanja 鄭容臺; born 4 February 1978), also known as Chong Yong-De, is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Kerlon]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Kerlon (born 27 January 1988) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Ajax.

[[Reto Ziegler]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Swiss footballers, People from Geneva

Reto Ziegler (born 16 January 1986) is a Swiss football player. He plays for FC Dallas.

[[Yukinori Shigeta]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Yukinori Shigeta (born 15 July 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Josh Hutcherson]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Actors from Kentucky, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Joshua Ryan "Josh" Hutcherson (born October 12, 1992) is an American movie and television actor. He began acting early in 2000. He performed in several minor movie and television roles. He became famous in his major roles in the 2005 movies Little Manhattan and Zathura, the 2006 comedy RV, the 2007 family adventure movie Firehouse Dog, the movie adaptations of Bridge to Terabithia, Journey to the Center of the Earth and Cirque du Freak: The Vampire's Assistant. He also plays the role of Peeta Mellark in the Hunger Games trilogy.

[[Walden Media]]

CATEGORIES: Companies based in Los Angeles, Publishing companies of the United States, Movie studios

Walden Media, LLC or Walden Media is a movie production and publishing company for children's movies. It is best known for making The Chronicles of Narnia movie series. Its movies are usually based on famous children's books. For example, Bridge to Terabithia. It also makes movies about biographies or historical events.

It was started in 2000 by Michael Flaherty and Cary Granat. This was when Granat was the leader of Dimension Films. Flaherty was interested in good education for children. They had lived together at Tufts University when they were younger. They said the purpose of Walden Media was to make kids have fun. The company is owned by a Christian named Philip Anschutz. Anschutz is known for his strong political opinions. He also said he wanted the movies "to be entertaining, but also to be life affirming and to carry a moral message."

[[Buxaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Plant families

Buxaceae is a family of plants. There are five genera, with about 70 species. The family has a cosmopolitan distribution. Many family members are grown as ornamental plants. The plants are herbaceous and evergreen. Some are shrubs or small trees.

[[The Washington Post]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in the United States, 1877 establishments in the United States, Washington, D.C.

The Washington Post is an American daily newspaper. It is Washington, D.C.'s largest newspaper. It is also its oldest and was founded in 1877. It focuses on national politics. D.C., Maryland, and Virginia editions are printed to be sold daily. Amazon's creator Jeff Bezos bought the newspaper company in 2013.

[[Chicago Sun-Times]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in Chicago, Illinois, 1948 establishments in the United States

The Chicago Sun-Times is a newspaper that is published in Chicago, Illinois, United States. It is part of the Sun-Times Media Group. Movie critic Roger Ebert worked for the Sun-Times throughout his entire career.

[[B of the Bang]]

CATEGORIES: Sculptures, Manchester, 2005 establishments in England, 2009 disestablishments in England

B of the Bang was a sculpture in Manchester, England. It was next to the City of Manchester Stadium at Sportcity. The work was designed by Thomas Heatherwick. It was taken apart in 2009 due to structural problems.

Commissioned to mark the 2002 Commonwealth Games, it was one of the tallest structures in the City of Manchester.  It was the tallest sculpture in the UK until the completion of Aspire in 2008. It was taller and leaned at a greater angle than the Leaning Tower of Pisa. The sculpture took its name from a quotation of British sprinter Linford Christie. In the quotation he said that he started his races not at the "bang" of the starting pistol, but at 'The B of the Bang'.

The sculpture was commissioned in 2003. Construction went longer than planned and the official unveiling was delayed until 12 January 2005. Six days before the launch, the sculpture suffered the first of three visible structural problems. The tip of one of the spikes came off and fell to the ground. Legal action started a year later, resulting in an out-of-court settlement totalling £1.7m.

In February 2009 Manchester City Council announced that the sculpture would be taken apart and placed in storage, as the "only practical alternative". The council said it was committed to working closely with the design team in order to "determine whether there is a robust and affordable strategy for the re-construction of the structure on the site". Despite the promise of storage and potential reassembly, the core and legs of the sculpture were cut apart during removal.

[[Ron Brand]]

CATEGORIES: Montreal Expos players, Houston Astros players, Pittsburgh Pirates players

Ron Brand (born January 13, 1940) is a former baseball player. He mostly played as a catcher. He started his career for the Clinton Pirates. After six years he joined the Pittsburgh Pirates. He hit his first home run off Denny Lemaster. He was then selected in the Rule 5 Draft by the Houston Astros. With the Astros he competed to be starting catcher with John Bateman. After four years in Houston, he was picked in the expansion draft, which is when new teams pick players that other teams do not want, by the Montreal Expos. He played for the Expos as a catcher in 1969, but then made some appearances at shortstop over the next two years. He played his last game on September 25, 1971. He then went back to the minor leagues. He managed for a few years as well.

[[Ewing's sarcoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Diseases and disorders of bones

Ewing's sarcoma is a type of bone cancer. It is a rare type of bone cancer which is found mainly in children. It found in boys more often than girls. It is not usually found in people over 30 years old. It is named after James Ewing, the doctor who first described it in 1921. 

People with Ewing's sarcoma usually feel pain, and may have a lump. They can get fevers and lose weight. In some cases the tumor can eat into the bone and cause it to fracture easily.

[[Bone tumor]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Diseases and disorders of bones

A bone tumor is any tumor in bones. Examples of bone tumors include osteosarcoma and Ewing's sarcoma.

[[Sticky keys]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

Sticky keys are activated when a computer user presses the "Shift" key five times. This lets the user capitalize a letter without having to press down the "Shift" key.

Sticky Keys is a Microsoft Windows accessibility feature that causes modifier keys to remain active, even after they have been pressed and released, making it easier to do keyboard shortcuts.

[[Unincorporated area]]

CATEGORIES: Local government, Local government in the United States

An unincorporated area is land that is not part of a town, city, or anything like a town. Often, there are not many people there.

[[Chapters and verses of the Bible]]

CATEGORIES: Bible

The books of the Bible that are considered canonical number 24 for Jews, 66 for Protestants, 73 for Catholics, and 78 for most Orthodox Christians. In addition to these, many versions of the Bible contain books which have not been considered canonical by their publishers, called apocrypha. All these books have different lengths from a single page of modern type to dozens of pages. All but the shortest are divided into chapters, generally a page or two in length.

[[Glioma]]

CATEGORIES: Brain tumors

A glioma is a type of brain tumor that starts in the glial cells.

[[Subset sum problem]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

The subset sum problem is an important problem of computer science. It can be stated as follows: Given a set of integers, does any subset of them sum to zero?  For example, given the set , the answer is yes because the subset  sums to zero.  The problem is NP-Complete. It can be reformulated to the 3SAT. 

An alternative statement of this problem is, given a set of numbers and an integer x determine whether or not there exist a subset that sums up to x.

Eg. given a set  and x = 10 the answer is yes because  sums to 10. 

Remember that the subsequence need not to be contiguous. For instance if x = 8 in above example the answer is still yes because  sums to 8.

[[Istanbul Technical University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey, 1773 establishments, Establishments in Turkey, 1770s establishments in Asia, 1770s establishments in Europe, Istanbul

Istanbul Technical University is a public college in Istanbul, Turkey. Istanbul Technical University was started in 1773. According to Times Higher Education, ITU is ranked 108th in the world and 1st in Turkey in the technology and engineering.

ITU's main campus is located on the Maslak. Istanbul's subway system has a stop at ITU's Maslak campus. ITU has 12 faculties and 5 institutes.

[[Saxifragaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Saxifragales

Saxifragaceae is a family of flowering plant with about 460 known species in 36 genera. In Europe there are 12 genera. Most members of the Saxifrage family are herbs, and usually have a flower cluster held well above the basal whorl of leaves.

[[Lolol]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile, Settlements in the Region of O'Higgins

Lolol (land of crabs and holes) is a Chilean commune in the Province of Colchagua, O'Higgins. The town was founded in 1830. It has 2,118 inhabitants, as of 2002.

[[Yun Chi-ho]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 births, 1945 deaths, Korean educators, South Korean politicians, Anti-Communists, Korean politicians, Murder victims, Autobiographers, Korean activists

Yun Chi-Ho (1865–1945) was a Choson politician and a Korean Christian activist. He was part of the independence movement against  Japanese Imperialism. Yun Chi-Ho is the uncle of Yun Bo-sun (윤보선), South Korea's 4th president and well known by his pen-name Jwaong (좌옹).

Yun was a human and civil right activist and part of the national liberation movement, member of an independent club, member of the 10,000 people club and managing editor of an independent news paper.

He was against the Japanese invasion of Korea. However, he turned away from Korean independence activism in 1915 to become a pro-Japanese activist.

[[Squat]]

CATEGORIES: Fitness

Squat is a renowned element of many folk dances. 

In powerlifting and bodybuilding, as well as in other sports, squat is an exercise that strengthens the muscles of the thighs, hips and buttocks, as well as the bones, ligaments and insertion of the tendons throughout the lower body.

[[John Lubbock, 1st Baron Avebury]]

CATEGORIES: 1834 births, 1913 deaths, English biologists, English politicians, English Barons, Baronets, English archaeologists, Privy Councillors (UK)

John Lubbock, 1st Baron Avebury PC, FRS (30 April 1834 – 28 May 1913), known as Sir John Lubbock, 4th Bt from 1865 until 1900, was an English banker, biologist, archaeologist and Liberal politician.

[[Georges Seurat]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 births, 1891 deaths, French painters

Georges-Pierre Seurat, (2 December 1859 – 29 March 1891) was a French Post-Impressionist painter. 

Seurat painted for a time with the Impressionist painters, Claude Monet, Renoir, Sisley and Pissarro. His scientific ideas about colour then led him to develop a different painting technique. He painted in tiny dots of colour, with the theory that the viewer's eye would mix them. This technique is called "pointillism".  

Seurat and his followers are often referred to as the Neo-Impressionists ("New Impressionists"). His most famous paintings are A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte (18841886) in the Chicago Art Institute and Bathers at Asnières (1884) in the National Gallery, London. 

== References == 

== Related pages == 

[[Eugène Boudin]]

CATEGORIES: 1824 births, 1898 deaths, French painters

Eugène Boudin (12 July 1824 – 8 August 1898) was a French painter of landscapes and seascapes. He was one of the first landscape painters to paint outdoors, rather than in a studio. He was a great influence on the French Impressionists.

Boudin was born in Honfleur, France, and was the son of a sailor. In 1835 his father opened a small shop in Le Havre where Boudin worked with him, selling stationery and making picture frames. Boudin met many artists who put their paintings for sale in the shop. In his early twenties, Boudin went to Paris to study painting. He returned often to paint the seashores around his home. 

In 1856 Boudin met Claude Monet who spent several months working with Boudin in his studio. The two remained lifelong friends. Monet later said that Boudin had been a major influence on him, teaching him to paint outdoors. Camille Corot who was one of the greatest influences on Monet and the other Impressionists, gazed at Boudin's work and said "You are the master of the sky." 

The Eugene Boudin Prize is an award given by the Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts of France.

==Related pages== 

[[Boolean satisfiability problem]]

CATEGORIES: Theoretical computer science, Boolean algebra

The Boolean satisfiability problem is a kind of problem in math-based logic. In propositional logic, a formula is satisfiable if the variables it uses can be given values so that it becomes true. If however for a given formula, no values exist so that the formula becomes true and the formula will always be false no matter what values its variables have it is called "unsatisfiable".

This problem is also known as Boolean or propositional satisfiability. Computer scientists usually call it SAT.  Complexity theory believes that the formula should be in a special form, known as conjunctive normal form. A formula that is in this form has clauses. Clauses are joined by a "logical and". Each clause has several literals. They are joined by a "logical or". A literal and its complement cannot appear in the same clause. The problem may also have other names. The names depend on what the logical formula looks like. The names also depend on how many variables are used per clause.

A formula that satisfies 3SAT looks like the following:

In this case (A1 OR B1 OR C1) is an example for a clause, and B1 is one of the literals of this clause.

At the beginning of the 1970s, Stephen Cook and Leonid Levin showed that the problem is NP-complete. This is known as the Cook–Levin theorem. 

The problem 3SAT uses three variables per clause. It is one of the 21 NP-complete problems. They were defined by Richard Karp in 1972.

[[Denny Lemaster]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Atlanta Braves players, Baseball players from California, Houston Astros players, Living people, Milwaukee Braves players, Montreal Expos players, People from Riverside County, California

Denver Clayton Lemaster (born February 25, 1939 in Corona, California) was a Major League Baseball pitcher. He began his career when he was signed by the Milwaukee Braves. He spent 1958-early 1962 in the minors. He joined the Braves in 1962, and pitched his first game on June 15th. He played with the Braves until 1967. They had moved to Atlanta by that time. After the 1967 season he was traded to the Astros with Denis Menke. The Braves were given Sonny Jackson and Chuck Harrison. Lemaster played with the Astros for four years. He was then sold to the Montreal Expos, but was released halfway through the season.

[[NP-complete]]

CATEGORIES: Theoretical computer science

An NP-complete problem is an NP problem such that if one could find answers to that problem in polynomial number of steps, one could also find answers to all NP problems in polynomial number of steps. This makes NP-complete decision problems the hardest problems in NP (they are NP-hard). People spent lots of time looking for algorithms that finds answers to some NP-complete problem in polynomial number of steps, but have not found any. Because of this, if someone shows a problem to be NP-complete, it is not likely that there is an algorithm solving it in polynomial number of steps.

The unsolved problem P = NP asks whether polynomial time algorithms actually exist for NP-complete, and by corollary, all NP problems. It is widely believed that this is not the case.

The Travelling salesman problem is an NP-Complete problem.

[[Cook–Levin theorem]]

CATEGORIES: Theoretical computer science

The Cook–Levin theorem is a theorem from theoretical computer science, which says that the Boolean satisfiability problem is NP-complete. A deterministic Turing machine can change a problem in NP in polynomial time to the problem of determining whether a Boolean formula is satisfiable. An important consequence of the theorem is that if there exists a deterministic polynomial time algorithm for solving Boolean satisfiability, then there exists a deterministic polynomial time algorithm for solving all problems in NP. The same follows for any NP-complete problem. 

The question of whether such an algorithm exists is called the P versus NP problem and it is widely considered the most important unsolved problem in theoretical computer science. The theorem is named after Stephen Cook and Leonid Levin, who first described it in the 1970s.

[[Bill France, Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: American racecar drivers, NASCAR, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C., 1909 births, 1992 deaths

William Henry Getty France Sr. (September 26, 1909 – June 7, 1992) was an American racecar driver, best known for being the co-founder of NASCAR. France was born in Washington, D.C.. He is also known as the creator of the Daytona International Speedway and the Talladega Superspeedway. France was put into the NASCAR Hall of Fame on May 23 2010.

France was the father of Bill France, Jr. (1933-2007) and grandfather of Brian France.

[[Denis Menke]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2020 deaths, Milwaukee Braves players, National League All-Stars, Houston Astros players, Cincinnati Reds players, Sportspeople from Iowa

Denis John Menke (July 21, 1940 – December 1, 2020) was a professional baseball infielder.

He was born on July 23, 1940, in Bancroft, Iowa. He was signed by the Milwaukee Braves in 1958. He came to the major leagues in 1962. 

He became a regular player in 1963. He was traded with Denny Lemaster to the Astros in 1967. He played for Houston for four years, and was elected to the All-Star team as a backup player twice. He was then part of an eight-player trade the Astros made with the Reds. The trade was Menke, Ed Armbrister, Jack Billingham, Cesar Geronimo, and future Hall-of-Famer Joe Morgan for All-star Lee May, All-star Tommy Helms, and Jimmy Stewart. 

He played in the 1972 World Series. He batted .083 in 24 at-bats.

Menke died at his home in Tarpon Springs, Florida on December 1, 2020 at the age of 80.

[[Huaso]]

CATEGORIES: Chilean culture

A huaso (feminine huasa, but most commonly china) is a Chilean countryman and skilled horseman, very similar to the gauchos, cowboys, vaqueros and charros. Huasos are found in central and southern Chile. 

Huasos are an important part of the culture of Chile, and are a vital part of parades, parties, and holidays. The Region of O'Higgins is the place where are found the most of the Chilean huasos.

[[Purchase]]

CATEGORIES: Trade

Purchasing is the buying of goods or services. An item that has been bought is called a purchase. The opposite of a purchase is a sale. In common usage, the shorter word "buy" is typically used when shopping, rather than the word "purchase".

However, the word has been used in many major historical terms, including:

The word purchase is often used in contracts with "acquisition", as in the term "Acquisitions and Mergers" (A&M) in legal agreements made between large companies. Those contracts typically state than a company was purchased by another company.

[[Stargate (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies, 1990s science fiction movies, Stargate, Movies set in Egypt, Movies set in Colorado, Movies set on fictional planets, Movies directed by Roland Emmerich

Stargate is a 1994 science fiction movie, starring Kurt Russell as Colonel Jonathan Jack O'Neil, James Spader as Dr. Daniel Jackson and Jaye Davidson as Ra.

Although the movie got mixed reviews from movie critics, it did very well at the box office with a revenue of $196.6 million, which was nearly four times higher than its budget of $55 million. The financial success of this movie also started the Hollywood career of Roland Emmerich and it became a cult movie.

[[Super Junior]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean boy bands, K-pop music groups, Hip hop bands, R&B bands, 2005 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in South Korea

Super Junior (Korean: 슈퍼주니어), also known as SJ or SuJu is a South Korean boy band, under S.M. Entertainment. It consists of thirteen members, consisting of leader Leeteuk, Heechul, Hankyung, Yesung, Shindong, Sungmin, Eunhyuk, Donghae, Siwon, Ryeowook and Kibum. Kyuhyun joined the group in 2006. Han Geng and Kibum had left SM Entertainment and Super Junior in 2009 and 2015. Kangin left Super Junior voluntarily in 2019 but his exclusive contract with label SJ still remains. 

[[Pandanaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Malpighiales

Pandanaceae is a family of flowering plants found in the Old World tropical and subtropical regions, from West Africa through the Pacific. It contains five genera and about 900 species of trees, shrubs and root climbers. Most members of the family prefer living in coastal or marshy areas. 

[[Gilmar Silva Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Gilmar Silva Santos (born 9 March 1984) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for En Avant Guingamp.

[[José Luís Santos da Visitação]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Salvador, Bahia

José Luís Santos da Visitação (born 23 March 1979) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Atlético Mineiro.

[[Juan Pedro Benali]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Spanish football managers

Juan Pedro Benali (born 25 March 1969) is a Spanish football manager.

[[Manuel dos Santos Fernandes]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, French footballers

Manuel dos Santos Fernandes (born 28 March 1974) is a former French football player.

[[Alberto Aquilani]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Italian footballers, Sportspeople from Rome

Alberto Aquilani (born 7 July 1984) is an Italian football player. He plays for Liverpool and Italy national team.

[[Flavio Roma]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Italian footballers, Sportspeople from Rome

Flavio Roma (born 21 June 1974) is an Italian football player. He has played for Italy national team.

[[Bernard Allou]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, French footballers

Bernard Allou (born 19 June 1975) is a former French football player.

[[Éric Carrière]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, French footballers

Éric Carrière (born 24 May 1973) is a French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Eliézio Santos Santana]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Salvador, Bahia

Eliézio Santos Santana (born 31 March 1987) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Ben Thatcher]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Welsh footballers

Ben Thatcher (born 30 November 1975) is an Welsh football player. He has played for Wales national team.

[[Gnathostomulida]]

CATEGORIES: Minor phyla

Gnathostomulids, or jaw worms, are a small phylum of marine invertebrates which were discovered in 1956. They are tiny worm-like marine animals. They live in sand and mud beneath shallow coastal waters and can survive in relatively anoxic environments. 

[[Alexandre Lopes]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Footballers from Rio de Janeiro

Alexandre Paes Lopes (born 29 October 1974) is a Brazilian professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Leandro Montera da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Leandro Montera da Silva (born 12 February 1985) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Al-Sadd.

[[Junya Nitta]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Junya Nitta (born 13 July 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Honda.

[[Yosuke Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yosuke Kobayashi (born 6 May 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Matsumoto Yamaga.

[[Anoxia]]

CATEGORIES: Biology

Anoxia or hypoxemia is a low level of oxygen in the blood. The word "anoxic" used in biology to refer to habitats with little or no oxygen.

Anoxic events occur when an area of ocean loses most of its oxygen below the surface layers.

[[Epidermis]]

CATEGORIES: Integumentary system

The epidermis is the  skin or surface layer of an animal or plant. At its most basic, it is a sheet of cells. The cells are continually replaced by cell division (mitosis), and the layer (in animals) is sensitive to stimuli such as touch. In land vertebrates the epidermis has many layers; the outer layers may be reinforced by keratin.

[[Eddie Pope]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American footballers, Sportspeople from North Carolina, People from Greensboro, North Carolina

Eddie Pope (born 24 December 1973) is a former American soccer player. He has played for United States national team.

[[Double check]]

CATEGORIES: Chess

Double check is a chess term. It describes when the king is being attacked from two places at once. This forces the king to move, because taking one attacker or blocking one attacker will not solve the problem from the other attacker.

[[Sindh Institute of Urology and Transplantation]]

CATEGORIES: Hospitals, Buildings and structures in Karachi

The Sindh Institute of Urology and Transplantation ('SIUT') is a largest dialysis & kidney transplant centre in Pakistan.

All services including dialysis and transplantation are provided free of charge.

It was founded by Dr. Syed Adeebul Hasan Rizvi and it is the country's largest kidney disease center, as well as Parkistan's largest public sector health organisation.

The Institute started as a department of urology at the government-run Civil Hospital, Karachi in 1970 and received autonomy in 1991.

They perform 10-12 transplants every week, and in 2003 performed Pakistan's first liver transplant. In 2004, a unit for child was opened.

[[Tuck Everlasting (2002 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 movies, Disney movies, Movies based on books, English-language movies

Tuck Everlasting is a 2002 movie based on the book Tuck Everlasting by Natalie Babbitt published in 1975. This Disney version was directed by Jay Russell.

[[2010 Pacific hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 in weather, Pacific hurricane seasons, 2010 in North America

The 2010 Pacific hurricane season  was the least active season since 1977, it officially started on May 15, 2010 and on June 1st for the Central Pacific and officially ended on November 30, 2010. These dates are when a storm is likely to start in 2010. The first storm of this season formed about two weeks before the first storm of 2009 did. So far, there have been five tropical depression, four of those five became a tropical storm, while only one because a hurricane. In addition, one storm, Hurricane Celia, was the second earliest category 5 hurricane on record

The first storm, Tropical Storm Agatha killed at least 196 people in Central America. No other storms in the 2010 Pacific hurricane season have affected land yet.

[[William Jennings Bryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 births, 1925 deaths, American lawyers, American Presbyterians, Burials at Arlington National Cemetery, Creationists, United States representatives from Nebraska, United States Secretaries of State, US Democratic Party politicians

[[Regeneration]]

CATEGORIES: Developmental biology

Regeneration means that an organism regrows a lost part, so that the original function is restored. It is a term in  developmental biology.

The ability to regenerate differs in different groups. Whereas newts, for example, can regenerate severed limbs, mammals cannot. Limb regeneration in newts occurs in two major steps, first de-differentiation of adult cells into a stem cell state similar to embryonic cells and second, development of these cells into new tissue more or less the same way it developed the first time. 

Simpler animals like flatworms can regenerate because the adults retain clusters of stem cells in their bodies. These can migrate to damaged parts of the body, then divide and differentiate to provide the missing tissue.

[[Lowell, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Massachusetts, County seats in Massachusetts

Lowell is a city in Massachusetts. It has a population of 105,167, which makes it one of the largest cities in the state. It has historically been known for having factories that made textiles (clothes and fabric). It has been a city of immigrants, first of Irish and later of Cambodians.

[[Haifa]]

CATEGORIES: Haifa, Ports and harbours of Israel

Haifa is the largest city in northern Israel, at the base of Mount Carmel. It is the third-largest city in the country and an important sea port.

[[National University of San Marcos]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in South America, 1551 establishments, Lima, 16th-century establishments in the Viceroyalty of Peru, 1550s establishments in South America

The National University of San Marcos (Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, UNMSM) is a public university in Lima, Peru. It was founded on 12 May 1551. It is the first and most important university of Peru and the oldest university of the Americas. The University of San Marcos has 20 faculties and 62 academic schools. It enrolls 28,645 undergraduate students and 3,447 graduate students. The National University of San Marcos has many notable students and graduates, including the only Peruvian Nobel Prize winner, Mario Vargas Llosa. Academically, the University of San Marcos ranks first in Peru.

[[Princes Street]]

CATEGORIES: Edinburgh, Roads in the United Kingdom

Princes Street is one of the main streets at the center of Edinburgh, the capital city of Scotland.

The street now has a lot of shops and hotels along it. It is one of the main places in Edinburgh for tourists.

[[Social anxiety disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Anxiety disorders, Phobias

Social anxiety disorder (or SAD) is a mental problem where people are scared to talk to other people, thinking that they will embarrass themselves or that they will be judged badly by other people. This can cause fear to someone with SAD, which can also affect his life if it is not treated soon.

People with SAD can be scared to go out and talk to other people. This can cause depression and fear of the outdoors.

[[ASP.NET]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages, Microsoft Visual Studio

ASP.NET is a scripting language that was made by Microsoft. It helps make web pages more interactive by allowing developers to develop for the web. It allows developers to use languages like Visual C++, Visual C#, Visual Basic and Visual F# to make websites.

[[Digital Economy Act 2010]]

CATEGORIES: Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, Software, 2010 in the United Kingdom

The Digital Economy Act 2010 is a law passed by the British government. It was introduced to prevent software piracy and to give Ofcom extra power to combat piracy. The law also deals with other things related to technology and television.

Some people have said that the act was not examined well enough before it became law and should be changed to be more fair.

[[Android (operating system)]]

CATEGORIES: Android (operating system)

Android is an operating system for mobile devices. It is mostly used for smartphones, like Google's own Google Pixel, as well as by other phone manufacturers like HTC and Samsung.  It has also been used for tablets such as the Motorola Xoom and Amazon Kindle. A modified Linux kernel is used as Android's kernel.

Google says that over 1.3 million Android smartphones are sold every day. Most mobile phones run Android, making it the most popular mobile operating system.  It is also the most popular operating system in general.

It supports multitasking and two-dimensional and three-dimensional graphics.

Security updates are not provided on versions older than Android 8.0. Newer versions receive security updates if the phone manufacturer supports them. Phones which have Android 10 and above receive security updates (like app updates) directly from Google Play.

The current stable version is Android 11, released on September 8, 2020. As of June 2021, Android 10 is the most used version.

[[Carlos Boozer]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, Chicago Bulls players, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Los Angeles Lakers players, Utah Jazz players, Sportspeople from Alaska, 2008 Summer Olympics, American basketball players

Carlos Austin Boozer Jr. (born November 20, 1981 in Aschaffenburg, West Germany) is a former American basketball player.  During his NBA career, he played for the Cleveland Cavaliers, Utah Jazz, Chicago Bulls and Los Angeles Lakers.  His nicknames are Booz, CBooz, and Booz Cruise.

He won a gold medal with Team USA in the 2008 Summer Olympics Games in Beijing and is a two-time NBA all-star in 2007 and 2008.

Boozer was drafted out of Duke University by the Cleveland Cavaliers and played with them in the 2002-03 and 2003-04 NBA seasons.

Boozer was known to yell, "Gimme that!" when he got a rebound.

[[Mark Schwarzer]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Mark Schwarzer (born 6 October 1972) is a former Australian football player who played as a goalkeeper. As of 2020, he holds the record for playing the most no. of matches in the history of the national football team of Australia.

Throughout his career, Schwarzer played at the world level in football and received appreciations for his consistency, leadership, sportsmanship and skill. Despite playing for average teams for the major part of his career, he managed to have a very successful career and set up many records. In addition to being the oldest player to have ever played for Chelsea, Leicester City and Australia, he is the only footballer in Australian history to have played for more than 20 years. He also holds the record for the most clean sheets by any Australian goalkeeper.

[[Rocky Colavito]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American baseball players, Cleveland Indians players, Sportspeople from New York City

Rocco Domenico "Rocky" Colavito Jr (born August 10, 1933 in New York City) was an American baseball player. He played outfield. He began playing on the Cleveland Indians in September 1955, playing in 5 games. 

[[Escitalopram]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs used in psychiatry

Escitalopram is an antidepressant medication. It is used as a drug to help treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, social anxiety disorder and other mental illnesses. It is commonly known and sold as Lexapro or Cipralex.

[[Leeds Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Leeds, Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Grade II* listed buildings

Leeds Cathedral is a large Victorian Catholic cathedral in England and is found in the city of Leeds in Yorkshire.

The first cathedral was much larger but was demolished so that The Headrow could be made wider.  The new cathedral is next to where the old cathedral was.

[[Leeds Town Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Leeds, Concert halls in England, Administrative buildings, 1858 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1850s establishments in England

Leeds Town Hall is a large town hall in the City of Leeds, West Yorkshire.  The town hall is on The Headrow, a large street in the city centre.  The town hall was designed by Cuthbert Brodrick.  Building began in 1853 and was finished in 1858, when it was opened by Queen Victoria.  When Leeds Civic Hall opened in 1933, the council moved their offices into the new hall.  Today the town hall is mostly used for concerts.

Leeds town hall was the tallest building in Leeds until 1966 when the Park Plaza Hotel was built on City Square.

The town hall and the Great Hall at the University of Leeds are the venues for the Leeds International Pianoforte Competition.

The town hall was one of the favourite buildings of poet, John Betjemin and in 2008 was voted in the top-ten favourite town halls in the United Kingdom (nearby Halifax Town Hall also listed).

[[LittleBigPlanet]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, LittleBigPlanet, PlayStation 3 games, Sony Interactive Entertainment games

LittleBigPlanet, often shortened to 'LBP', is a puzzle platformer video game. In the game you start as a Sackboy (or sackgirl) who you control; you can dress up with over 100 types of clothing to select from. There are 6 themes of levels to complete and your aim is to complete the levels.  It revolves around content created by players. It is only made for PlayStation 3, and it was first made known on 7 March 2007, by Phil Harrison at the Game Developers Conference (GDC) in San Francisco, California. It was made under the title 'The Next Big Thing' by Media Molecule and was published by Sony Computer Entertainment Europe. A PSP version of the game came out in November 2009, and had new levels and content.

The game received good ratings from critics. They liked its presentation, including its graphics, physics and sound, together with its gameplay and the ability to change a lot of things, as well as online features. More praise was given to its size and future potential based on user-created content. Small criticism was made for certain parts of the gameplay and level creation tools. LittleBigPlanet has won a large amount of awards.

[[Nexus One]]

CATEGORIES: Nexus mobile phones, Android smartphones, Mobile phones released in 2010

Nexus One is a cell phone from Google that uses the Google Android operating system. It was made for Google by the HTC Corporation.

[[Nellie McKay]]

CATEGORIES: American pop musicians, American jazz musicians, Singers from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City, Comedians from New York City, 1982 births, Living people

Nellie McKay (born April 3, 1982) is an American singer-songwriter, actress and comedian. She was born in England.

Her songs have many genres including; jazz, rap, disco and funk. Her songs sometimes are feminist and political.

[[Mo Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, American basketball players, Living people, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Los Angeles Clippers players, Milwaukee Bucks players, Utah Jazz players, Sportspeople from Mississippi

Maurice "Mo" Williams is currently a professional basketball that plays for the Los Angeles Clippers. He is a point guard, who wears the jersey number #2. He was born in Jackson, Mississippi. He was born on December 19, 1982. He formerly played for the Utah Jazz from 2003 to 04, the Milwaukee Bucks from 2004 to 08 and the Cleveland Cavaliers from 2008 to 2011.

[[Hummus]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Eastern foods

Hummus or houmous is a food dip or spread that includes chickpeas, tahini, olive oil, lemon juice, salt and garlic. "Hummus" is Arabic for "chickpeas" that is said to be of Egyptian origin. The dish then spreaded across the The Levant and North Africa. It is high in different types of nutrients, for instance protein, iron, vitamin C and B6, and dietary fiber. Hummus is often eaten with pita. When hummus is served with bread the proteins of the hummus and of the bread go well together, creating a delicious taste. Hummus is also eaten in Israel and Greece. It has become popular in the Middle East and many other countries. It is considered a "health" food.

[[Sean Combs]]

CATEGORIES: African American actors, African American musicians, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, Grammy Award winners, Singers from New York City, American rap musicians from New York, 1969 births, Living people

Sean John Combs (born November 4, 1969) is an American rapper, singer, musician and actor. Combs has used many names during his career. He currently uses Diddy but has also used P Diddy and Puff Daddy. He was born in New York City. He started his musical career in 1988. He is in connection with Bad Boy Records. He is the richest hip hop musician. Combs has won three Grammy Awards. Three albums that he executive produced were put on Rolling Stone magazines list of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. In 2001 Combs acted in Made. In 2010 Combs released his fifth album, Last Train to Paris. Lots of other musicians sung on the album including Justin Timberlake, Usher, and Grace Jones.

[[Context (computing)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science, a task context (process, thread ...) is the minimal set of data used by this task that must be saved to allow a task interruption at a given date and a continuation of this task at the point it has been interrupted and at an arbitrary future date. The concept of context assumes significance in the case of interruptible tasks, wherein upon being interrupted, the processor saves the context and proceeds to serve the Interrupt service routine. Thus the smaller the context, the smaller is the latency. These data are located in:

The storage memory (files) is not concerned by the "task context" in the case of a context switch, even if this can be stored for some uses (checkpointing).

[[Ryohei Suzuki (footballer, born 1983)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukui Prefecture

Ryohei Suzuki (born 30 July 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ain Food.

[[Shogo Sakai]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Shogo Sakai (born 28 January 1988) is a Japanese football player.

[[Kenta Kifuji]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Kenta Kifuji (born 5 October 1981) is a Japanese football player.

[[Douglas Pires de Souza]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Douglas Pires de Souza (born 7 March 1987) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Tonan Maebashi.

[[Osama Elsamni]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Okinawa Prefecture, YSCC Yokohama players

Osama Elsamni (born 29 September 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Teplice.

[[Nedum Onuoha]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, English footballers, Manchester City F.C. players, Nigerian footballers, Sportspeople from Manchester, Premier League players

Nedum Onuoha (born 12 November 1986) is a Nigerian-English football player. He grew up in Manchester. He plays for Manchester City.

[[Jean Makoun]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Cameroonian footballers

Jean Makoun (born 29 May 1983) is a Cameroonian football player. He plays for Olympique Lyonnais and Cameroon national team.

[[Zé Castro]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Portuguese footballers

Zé Castro (born 13 January 1983) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Deportivo La Coruña and Portugal national team.

[[Iván Cuéllar]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Spanish association football goalkeepers

Iván Cuéllar (born 27 May 1984) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Sporting Gijón.

[[Ismael Falcón]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Spanish association football goalkeepers, People from Cádiz

Ismael Falcón (born 24 April 1984) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Hércules CF.

[[Junya Kimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Ibaraki Prefecture

Junya Kimura is a former Japanese football player.

[[Marcos Aurélio Galeano]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marcos Aurélio Galeano (born 28 March 1972) is a former Brazilian football player.

[[Axel Cédric Konan]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Ivorian footballers

Axel Cédric Konan (born 25 January 1983) is a Côte d'Ivoire football player.

[[Hideo Yoshizawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Footballers from Gunma Prefecture

Hideo Yoshizawa (born 10 April 1972) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Sho Gokyu]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Sho Gokyu (born 11 June 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagawa Shiga.

[[Oswaldo López Arellano]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2010 deaths, North American politicians, Presidents of Honduras

Oswaldo Enrique López Arellano (30 June 1921 – 16 May 2010) was a politician from Honduras. He was president of the country twice, first from 1963 to 1971 and then from 1972 to 1975.

Arellano died on May 16, 2010 from prostate cancer.

[[Bosnian language]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic languages, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Languages of Europe

Bosnian  is language of Bosniacs, spoken mainly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the surrounding countries of Europe.

[[Kotka]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Finland, Municipalities of Kymenlaakso, 1879 establishments in Europe, 1870s establishments in Finland

Kotka (literally eagle) is a town in Kymenlaakso, Finland.

It is part of the Kymenlaakso region in southern Finland. The centre of Kotka is located at Kotkansaari island.

The most famous sport team from Kotka is KTP (Kotkan Työväen Palloilijat). The KTP-team plays football and basketball.

[[Volkswagen Touareg]]

CATEGORIES: Volkswagen automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Sport utility vehicles

The Volkswagen Touareg is an SUV produced by Volkswagen sine 2002. It entered its second generation in 2010.

The Touareg is available with 6-, 8- and 12-cylinder petrol engines and 5-, 6- and 10-cylinder diesel engines.

The body of the Touareg were also used for the Audi Q7 and the Porsche Cayenne.

[[Volkswagen Golf Cabriolet]]

CATEGORIES: Volkswagen Golf, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Volkswagen Golf Cabriolet is the cabriolet version of the Volkswagen Golf, introduced in 1979. The second generation were introduced in 1993, the third in 1998.

The engines for the Cabriolet are almost the same as for the regular Golf. 

The Golf Cabriolet was discontinued in 2002, and succeeded by the Volkswagen New Beetle Cabriolet and the Volkswagen Eos.

[[Google I/O]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

Google I/O is a conference for web developers that happens each year, since 2008. Google uses it to talk about new web technologies. Google Android, Google Chrome and Google Wave are technologies that have been shown there.

[[Ecchi]]

CATEGORIES: Anime, Anime and manga terms

Ecchi (or Boku no Nuqman, from the Japanese エッチ etchi) is from the Japanese word meaning "lewd", "sexy", "pervert", or "naughty" when used as an adjective, or it can mean to have sex when it is used as a verb or noun.  The English use of this word is usually used in manga and anime, used when it has sexual content, such as not much clothing or nudity, but does not show sex. 

Ecchi anime is also sometimes filled with innuendo and sexual humor. Ecchi anime doesn’t show sex, at least not in a clear way. 

Ecchi is similar to hentai, though it doesn’t go as far. The term itself may be from the word hentai, but the origins are unclear. Ecchi means “h”. 

A character in anime is often called ecchi, or even hentai, when he is perceived as being a pervert. In an anime like Love Hina it’s usually because of a comedic mistake or blunder.

[[National Polytechnic Institute]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Mexico, 1936 establishments in North America, Mexico City, 1930s establishments in Mexico

The National Polytechnic Institute (Spanish: Instituto Politécnico Nacional, IPN) is a public university in Mexico City. It is dedicated to research and education at high school, undergraduate and postgraduate levels. It was founded in 1936 by president Lázaro Cárdenas del Río.

The National Polytechnic Institute offers 293 courses of study. It is made up of 98 different academic units. These academic units are located across Mexico. With 171,581 students (2013), it is the second largest university in Mexico. The IPN is considered the best university in Mexico of engineering.

The institute has an important research center in Mexico called CINVESTAV.

The IPN has 27 sports teams. It has two American football teams called Burros blancos (White donkeys) and Águilas blancas (White eagles) on the Mexican College Football (ONEFA). These teams have won many championships. The IPN has a strong rivalry in all sports with UNAM, the other university in Mexico City.

[[IPN]]

IPN may refer to:

[[Oxalidaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Oxalidales

The Oxalidaceae is a family of flowering plants. This family has about 900 species, mainly of annual or perennial herbs.  These are found mainly in tropical and subtropical areas of the world, although some occur in temperate locations.

[[Ganglion]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the nervous system

In anatomy, a ganglion (plural ganglia) is a mass of tissue in the nervous system. It is a group of nerve cells which act as a junction between different parts of the nervous system. 

With invertebrates, ganglia often do the work of a brain. In these cases, like the earthworm, there is a ganglion above the gut at the front. This is linked to another under the gut by nerve fibres running down each side of the gut. The rest of the central nervous system runs under the gut. This type of arrangement in found in a number of invertebrate phyla, and contrasts with the vertebrates, who have their spinal cord above (dorsal to) their gut.

In another usage, ganglion cells are found in the retina of the vertebrate eye.

[[Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Personality disorders

Obsessive–compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) is a personality disorder. People with OCPD are obsessed with rules and order, and can feel worried or angry when things do not seem right. This can lead to routines and rules for ways of doing things, for themselves and the people around them.

[[Craig Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from Sydney, Crystal Palace F.C. players

Craig Moore (born 12 December 1975) is an Australian football player. He plays for Australia national team.

[[Tsuyoshi Kawaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Tsuyoshi Kawaguchi (born 22 February 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Honda.

[[Masayuki Ishii]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Masayuki Ishii (born 20 June 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Honda.

[[Ryosuke Horikiri]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Ryosuke Horikiri (born 27 November 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Mitsuru Mukojima]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Mitsuru Mukojima (born 5 May 1976) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Masahiko Kumagai]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Masahiko Kumagai (born 23 November 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Taiki Maekawa]]

CATEGORIES: Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, 1979 births, Living people

Taiki Maekawa (born 22 July 1979) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shuhei Hanabuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyagi Prefecture

Shuhei Hanabuchi (born 1 December 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sony Sendai.

[[Hirokazu Otsubo]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Hirokazu Otsubo (born 7 December 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagawa Printing.

[[Takeshi Ushibana]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Takeshi Ushibana (born 21 September 1977) is a Japanese football player.

[[Datsakorn Thonglao]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Thai footballers

Datsakorn Thonglao (born 30 December 1983) is a Thai football player. He plays for Muangthong United and Thailand national team.

[[Juande Ramos]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers

Juande Ramos (born 25 September 1954) is a former Spanish football player. When he retired from playing, he managed European clubs (e.g. Tottenham Hotspur, Real Madrid).

[[Tatsuhiro Nishimoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Tatsuhiro Nishimoto (born 29 April 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Marc Crosas]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Marc Crosas (born 9 January 1988) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Celtic.

[[Jeffrén Suárez]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Jeffrén Suárez (born 20 January 1988) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Barcelona.

[[Takuya Tomiyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Takuya Tomiyama (born 19 September 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagawa Shiga.

[[Shōgo Shimada]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Shōgo Shimada (born 13 November 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gifu.

[[Raimundo Orsi]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1986 deaths, Argentine footballers, Italian footballers

Raimundo Orsi (2 December 1901 – 6 April 1986) is a former Argentine-Italian football player. He has played for Argentina national team and Italy national team.

[[Data validation]]

In computing, data validation is the way of making sure that a program operates on clean, correct and useful data. 

It uses routines, often called "validation rules" or "check routines", that check for correctness, meaningfulness, and security of data that are input to the system. It is automatic and ensures that the data entered is reasonable.

[[Hao Haidong]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Chinese footballers

Hao Haidong (born 25 August 1970) is a former Chinese football player. He has played for China PR national team.

And has an Asian Club Championship in the old 26 goals

[[Emanuel Pogatetz]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, People from Graz

Emanuel Pogatetz (born 16 January 1983) is an Austrian football player. He plays for Hannover 96 in the German Bundesliga and the Austria national team.

[[Carlos Bocanegra]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American footballers

Carlos Bocanegra (born 25 May 1979) is an American soccer player. He plays for Stade Rennais and United States national team.

[[Park Chu-young]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, South Korean footballers

Park Chu-Young (Hangul: 박주영, Hanja: 朴主永; born 10 July 1985), also written as Park Ju-Young or Park Ju-yeong,  is a South Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an football player.

Park was a member of the Korean team in the 2008 Summer Olympics at Beijing.

Park played on the Korean men's football team in the 2012 Summer Olympics at London.  His play was highlighted when he scored the first goal against Japan in the bronze medal match.

[[Mario Regueiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Uruguayan footballers, Sportspeople from Montevideo

Mario Regueiro (born 14 September 1978) is an Uruguayan football player. He has played for the Uruguayan national team.

[[Daniel Andersson]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Swedish footballers

Daniel Andersson (born 28 August 1977) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Malmö FF and Sweden national team.

[[Niclas Jensen]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Danish footballers

Niclas Jensen (born 17 August 1974) is a former Danish football player. He has played for Denmark national team.

[[Red Dead Redemption]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games

Red Dead Redemption is an action-adventure western video game made by Rockstar San Diego. It was released in May 2010 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. It is a spiritual successor to 2004's Red Dead Revolver.

[[Hypertrophy]]

CATEGORIES: Health, Fitness

In biology, hypertrophy is the increase in size of an organ, beyond normal growth. Hypertrophy happens because the cells grow bigger. The condition where an organ is bigger, because there are more cells is called hyperplasia. thumb|right|200px|Normal cells (A), Hypertrophy (B), Hyperplasia (C) and combination (D).

Some cells like adipocytes (fat cells) get larger by expanding outward while filling up with more lipid contents, while myocytes (muscle cells) can fuse with other myocytes to form huge myotube cells. Organs or tissues can grow larger due to the enlargement of their component cells. One of the most common and visible forms of normal, organ hypertrophy occurs in skeletal muscles in response to strength training or bodybuilding.

In contrast, tissues and organs can also get larger by another mechanism, hyperplasia, in which the cells remain approximately the same size but increase in number. Although hypertrophy and hyperplasia are two distinct processes, they frequently occur together. The hormonally-induced proliferation and enlargement of the cells of the uterus during pregnancy is an example of this combination under normal conditions. In some tumors, enlargement can occur by an increase in the number of cells together with the occurrence of some abnormally large cells.

[[Spiritual successor]]

CATEGORIES: Writing

A Spiritual successor, sometimes called a Spiritual sequel or a Companion piece, is a sequel to a work of fiction which does not have the same storyline made in the first. Spiritual successors still have the same elements, themes, and styles as the first.

[[William Gibson]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American science fiction writers, Writers from South Carolina, Nebula Award winning writers, Hugo Award winning writers

William Gibson (born March 17, 1948) writes science fiction. He is one of the most important people in the part of science fiction called cyberpunk. His most famous book is Neuromancer.

[[Dadyal]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Dadyal (تحصیل ڈڈیال) is part of the Mirpur District in Azad Kashmir, Pakistan. The town consists of more than 70 smaller villages.

Dadyal is famous for its beautiful buildings. It is also known for its beautie . Dadyal is called mini parras due to its beautiful buildings

[[Thymelaeaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Malvales

Thymelaeaceae is a family of flowering plants omposed of 50 genera (listed below) and 898 species. 

The family is more diverse in the southern hemisphere than in the northern, with its major concentrations of species in Africa and Australia.

The species include mostly trees and shrubs, with a few vines and herbaceous plants.

[[Samahni]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Samahni (تحصیل سماہنی) is part of the Bhimber District of Azad Kashmir in Pakistan.

[[Dhirkot]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Dhirkot (تحصیل دھیرکوٹ) is a town in Bagh District in Azad Kashmir, Pakistan. It is located 132 kilometres from Islamabad.

[[Palandri Tehsil]]

CATEGORIES: Tehsils of Azad Kashmir

Palandri (تحصیل پلندری) is part of the Sudhnoti District, Azad Kashmir, in Pakistan.

[[2010 Formula One World Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One seasons, 2010 in sports

The 2010 Formula One season was the 61st Formula One season. Red Bull Racing won its first Constructors' Championship. Sebastian Vettel won his first Drivers' Championship. He only took the championship by winning the final race of the season. Vettel became the youngest World Champion.

[[Heart urchin]]

CATEGORIES: Echinoderms

Heart urchins are burrowing echinoids. This life-style is similar to that of sand dollars, but the heart urchins belong to another group. Heart urchins belong to the Family Loveniidae in the Order Spatangoida.

Echinocardium is the standard British heart urchin on sandy shores. Its spicules are converted to soft form, and they have sticky tube-feet which pass food to their gut. They can burrow up to five times their own height, and still keep connection with the surface for oxygenated water and food.

[[Nobumitsu Yamane]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Nobumitsu Yamane (born 28 June 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for the Sagawa Shiga.

[[Shohei Kamada]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Shohei Kamada (born 11 May 1980) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Takayuki Odajima]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Takayuki Odajima (born 15 September 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tomoyuki Kajino]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Footballers from Aichi Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Cerezo Osaka players, Gamba Osaka players, Kashiwa Reysol players

Tomoyuki Kajino is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Satoshi Kajino is also a former footballer.

[[Lee Cattermole]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, English footballers, Sportspeople from County Durham, Premier League players

Lee Cattermole (born 21 March 1988) is an English football player. He plays for Sunderland.

[[Takeshi Takama]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Footballers from Kyoto

Takeshi Takama (born 18 February 1956) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Toshiaki Hotta]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Tochigi Prefecture

Toshiaki Hotta is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football player.

In 2005, Hotta was included in the JFL's Best Eleven team of the season.

[[Kim Yong-Jun]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, North Korean footballers

Kim Yong-Jun (김영준; born 19 July 1983) is a North Korean professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.

[[Francesco Tavano]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Francesco Tavano (born 2 March 1979) is an Italian football player. He plays for Livorno.

[[Kodai Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Kodai Suzuki (born 7 August 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Honda.

[[Shinji Honda]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Aomori Prefecture

Shinji Honda (born 2 February 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sony Sendai.

[[Kohei Masumoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Kohei Masumoto (born 11 July 1982) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yoshihide Ogushi]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture

Yoshihide Ogushi (born 2 December 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shoma Mizunaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture

Shoma Mizunaga (born 22 May 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Honda Lock.

[[Masahiro Hamazaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2011 deaths, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Nippon Steel Yawata SC players, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Masahiro Hamazaki was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Ryozo Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Kashiwa Reysol players, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Ryozo Suzuki is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kiyoshi Tomizawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Nippon Steel Yawata SC players, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Kiyoshi Tomizawa is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Eizo Yuguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2003 deaths, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Cerezo Osaka players, Footballers at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympic medalists in football, Japanese Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics

Eizo Yuguchi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Hisao Kami]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Footballers from Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Nippon Steel Yawata SC players, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics

Hisao Kami is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shozo Tsugitani]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 1978 deaths, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Footballers at the 1964 Summer Olympics

Shozo Tsugitani was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Yoshio Furukawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1956 Summer Olympics

Yoshio Furukawa is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Takashi Takabayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2009 deaths, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Tanabe Mitsubishi Pharma SC players, Footballers at the 1956 Summer Olympics

Takashi Takabayashi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Waichiro Omura]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Year of death missing, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Tanabe Mitsubishi Pharma SC players, Footballers at the 1956 Summer Olympics

Waichiro Omura was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tadao Kobayashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1956 Summer Olympics

Tadao Kobayashi is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Akira Kitaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players, Footballers at the 1956 Summer Olympics

Akira Kitaguchi is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ontario

Sault Ste Marie is the third largest city in northern Ontario, Canada with 74,948 census.

Sault Ste Marie is on the border of Ontario and Michigan.

John Rowswell was elected as mayor in the 2000 municipal election.

It is found on the St. Marys River. 

The area was originally named Baawitigong, which means "place of the rapids" by the Ojibwe tribe.

Sault Ste. Marie has its own Walk of Fame.

[[Easter Island]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in South America, Islands of Chile, Easter Island, Provinces of Chile

Easter Island is a Polynesian island in the southeastern Pacific Ocean. The capital city is Hanga Roa.

It is famous for its 887 huge statues called Moai, made by the early Rapa Nui people.  Easter Island also has a huge crater called Rano Kau at the edge of the island.  In the crater there is a natural lake, one of only three bodies of fresh water on the island.

Easter Island a  UNESCO World Heritage Site.  Much of the island is protected in the Rapa Nui National Park.

The introduction of diseases carried by European colonizers and slave raiding devastated the population in the 1800s. Introduced animals, first rats and then sheep, were largely responsible for the island's loss of native flora.

[[Appin, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Appin is a town in New South Wales, Australia in Wollondilly Shire.  It is situated about 16 kilometres south of Campbelltown and 35 kilometres north west of Wollongong. In 2006, there were 1,423 people living in Appin.  The fifth village settled in Australia, it is now on the fringe of the Sydney urban area.

The town was named by Governor Lachlan Macquarie in 1811 after a small village on the coast of Scotland where his wife was born.  One of the first settlers was John Hume, whose son Hamilton Hume became a famous Australian explorer. Hamilton Hume explored the local area and was given a grant of 300 acres of land at Appin as a reward. When he made his famous journey to Victoria with William Hovell in 1824, they started the journey from Appin.

Appin is the birthplace of John Fuller (1830-1865), the Australian bushranger also known as Dan Morgan.

Cataract Gorge is about 10 km south east of Appin. It is now has a dam built in 1906 which is the oldest dam in the Sydney water supply system. On 17 April 1816, the British army killed many Aboriginal men, women and children, of the Dharawal Nation at the gorge. They had been fighting the European settlers who were moving into the area.

The Roman Catholic church at Appin, St. Bede's, was built from 1837-1843. The design was by Father John Therry (1790-1864), who became Australia's first Catholic priest in 1820. St. Bede's is the oldest Catholic church still in continuous use. It was named after St. Bede, the founder of the Benedictines.January 2020

[[Rihei Sano]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1992 deaths, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Rihei Sano was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Sei Fuwa]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Sei Fuwa was a Japanese football player.

[[Teizo Takeuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1946 deaths, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Teizo Takeuchi was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. Lighting designer Motoko Ishii is his daughter.

[[Constable]]

CATEGORIES: Law enforcement occupations

A constable is a person doing a certain job, most commonly in law enforcement.  The work and role of a constable can vary a lot in different countries.

Historically,  the word constable comes from the Latin,  comes  stabuli, count of the stables. It came from the Eastern Roman Empire. Originally, the constable was the person who kept the horses of a lord or monarch. The title was later used in the monarchies  of medieval  Europe. In many countries, the constable became a high military rank and great officer of State such as, the Constable of France.

In modern times, constables are law enforcement officers. In the United Kingdom,  Commonwealth of Nations and some European countries, a constable is the  lowest rank of police  officer. In the United States  a constable is usually an elected peace officer, with less powers than a sheriff. However, in the Channel Islands  a constable is an elected office-holder at the parish level.

Historically, a  constable could also be someone in charge of the defence of a castle. Even today, there is a Constable of the Tower of London.

It is a similar position to Marshal, which comes from Old High German  marah "horse" and schalh  "servant",  and originally meant "stable keeper",  which has a similar etymology.

[[Ever Palacios]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Colombian footballers

Ever Palacios (born 18 January 1969) is a Colombian football player. He has played for Colombia national team.

[[Monaro (New South Wales)]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of New South Wales

Monaro (pronounced "mon-air'-ro")  is the name of a region in the south of New South Wales, Australia. It also includes a small area of Victoria near Snowy River National Park. The Australian Capital Territory is often considered part of the region. Most towns in the region have very close links with Canberra.

The Monaro region is a large plateau about 1000 above sea level. It lies between the valley of the Murrumbidgee River in the north, and the Errinundra Plateau in the south. It drops steeply to the coast on its eastern side. Much of the region is an ancient highland, but there is basaltic bedrock near Cooma and Nimmitabel. This produces the only true chernozems in Australia. These are some of the best soils in the whole country. Elsewhere on the Monaro the granitic soils are very infertile. They supported dry forest vegetation before clearing for farming.

Because it is located east of the Snowy Mountains, the rain-bearing westerly winds drop rain and snow on the mountains leaving the Monaro region in a rain shadow. Annual rainfall ranges from 430 around Dalgety to 700 at the eastern edge of the plateau. Occasional storms can produce very heavy rainfall. On one day in June 1975, Nimmitabel received 256 of rain. Temperatures in summer are warm to very warm. The average maximum temperatures range from 28 around Canberra and Queanbeyan to 22 on the highest parts of the plateau. Nights in summer can be cool, but in winter the region is the coldest part of mainland Australia outside the Alps The with July minimum temperatures averaging -0.3 in Canberra and -1.5 in Bombala.

The Monaro region features rolling hills that rise to very rugged peaks in the Tinderry Mountains. There are shallow valleys in the upper Murrumbidgee. The basaltic Monaro Range separates the Snowy and Murrumbidgee drainages. Because the climate in the basaltic areas is too cold for crops, the main industry is raising sheep and beef cattle.

The Monaro Highway is the main State highway from Canberra to the Monaro region. The main towns in the region are Cooma and Bombala, others include Berridale, Adaminaby, Delegate, Dalgety, Nimmitabel and Jindabyne.

[[Kei Omoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Kei Omoto is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player.

[[Kazuma Kita]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Ishikawa Prefecture

Kazuma Kita (born 21 December 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Thespa Kusatsu.

[[Tomonobu Hiroi]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Tomonobu Hiroi (born 11 January 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.

[[Peter Løvenkrands]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Danish footballers

Peter Løvenkrands (born 29 January 1980) is a Danish football player. He plays for Newcastle United.

[[Hiroki Iikura]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Aomori Prefecture

Hiroki Iikura (born 1 June 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos.

[[Halifax (bank)]]

CATEGORIES: Banks of the United Kingdom, 1853 establishments, 1850s establishments in the United Kingdom

Halifax is a major bank in the United Kingdom.  It was a building society, but 'demutualised' and became a bank. Halifax then merged with the Bank of Scotland and made up HBOS.  In 2009, HBOS merged with Lloyds TSB and made Lloyds Banking Group.  Until 2010 Halifax was also an estate agent.

[[Peavy Wagner]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Bassists

Peter "Peavy" Wagner (born December 22, 1964) is a German heavy metal musician. He is bassist and singer of the Heavy Metal band Rage.

[[Leeds Kirkgate Market]]

CATEGORIES: Leeds, Retail markets, Buildings and structures in England, 1822 establishments, 1820s establishments in England

The Leeds Kirkgate Market, often known as the Leeds City Market or simply the Kirkgate Markets is a large market hall in Leeds, West Yorkshire.  The original markets was the birthplace of Marks & Spencer.  The markets opened in 1822 and moved to their current home in 1900.  The market hall has been extended several times and also incorporates an outdoor market.

It is the largest covered market in Europe. There are 800 stalls and the market attracts over 100,000 visitors a week.

[[Kosei Shibasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Kosei Shibasaki (born 28 August 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo Verdy.

[[Landlord]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

A landlord is a kind of businessperson or company who owns buildings or land, and earns money by charging rent to people (tenants) who want to use them. The word originated in the Middle Ages because a person who owned land then was also its lord who was in charge of the local government. Many natural persons who are landlords use borrowed money to buy their real estate and depend on enough tenants paying their rent on time, more for the purpose of reducing the amount of money they owe on the property than to provide them with an income.

Donald Trump is an example of a well known modern landlord.

[[Debbie Stabenow]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, United States senators from Michigan, United States representatives from Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, 21st-century American politicians

Deborah Ann Greer "Debbie" Stabenow (born April 29, 1950) is a United States Senator from Michigan. She become a member of the Senate in 2001. Before that, she was a member of the United States House of Representatives.

[[Grand Valley State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Michigan, 1960 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Michigan

Grand Valley State University is a public university in Allendale, Michigan. It is close to Grand Rapids, Michigan. The university was established in 1960. It has other campuses  in Downtown Grand Rapids and in Holland. It also teaches classes at local community colleges  at Muskegon and Traverse City.

[[Neith]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Neith was one of the earliest goddesses of ancient Egypt. She was the patroness of the city Sais in the River Nile Delta. Several Egyptian queens of the first Dynasty were named after her. The people of lower Egypt prayed to her statues when they were sick or to keep them safe from harm. Every year the people held a great festival in her honor, called the Feast of Lamps, because at night, they burned lots of lights in the open air during the celebration.

Neith was also known as "The Warrior Goddess," "The creator Goddess," "The Mother Goddess," "The Goddess of Lower Egypt," and "The Goddess of Funerals or Funerary Goddess." In drawings of her, she wore the Red Crown of Lower Egypt. Sometimes she was shown holding a bow and arrows.

Neith had worshippers all over Egypt. In the Old Kingdom of Egypt, she was an important deity in Memphis. But, she lost some of her importance during the Middle Kingdom and early New Kingdom. But, in the 19th dynasty, she became more popular again.

Neith was the goddess of war and hunting. It was her responsibility to help settle wars and disputes between the gods and the Egyptians. The Egyptian warriors believed they could not win a war without praying to her.

[[Force India]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors, Formula One current

Force India Formula One Team Limited or Force India F1 Team, often called Force India is a Formula One motor racing team. The racing team was formed by Indian businessman Vijay Mallya. Mallya bought the Spyker F1 racing team in October 2007, and changed the name to Force India.

Force India is based in Silverstone, UK. Their first season was 2008. They use Mercedes-Benz engines and Bridgestone Potenza tyres. In the 2009 season, they won their first pole and scored their first championship points.

[[Akira Matsunaga]]

Akira Matsunaga can mean:

[[Yasuo Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, Year of death missing, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Yasuo Suzuki was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Motoo Tatsuhara]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, Year of death missing, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Motoo Tatsuhara was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Shoichi Nishimura]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1998 deaths, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Shoichi Nishimura was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Tokutaro Ukon]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1944 deaths, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Tokutaro Ukon was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Akira Matsunaga (footballer, born 1914)]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1943 deaths, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Akira Matsunaga was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Nobuo Matsunaga and Seki Matsunaga also played for Japan national team.

[[Takeshi Kamo]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2004 deaths, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Takeshi Kamo was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Shogo Kamo also played for Japan national team.

[[Toyoji Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1940 deaths, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Toyoji Takahashi was a Japanese football player. His grandfather Korekiyo Takahashi was a Prime Minister of Japan.

[[Shogo Kamo]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1977 deaths, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Footballers at the 1936 Summer Olympics

Shogo Kamo was a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team. His brother Takeshi Kamo also played for Japan national team.

[[Narita Takaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture

Narita Takaki (born 5 April 1977) is a Japanese football player.

[[Yoshiki Nakai]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Yoshiki Nakai (born 4 January 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagawa Printing.

[[Jaime Gavilán]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, People from Valencia

Jaime Gavilán (born 12 May 1985) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Getafe.

[[Dario Dainelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Dario Dainelli (born 9 June 1979) is an Italian football player. He has played for Italy national team.

[[José Manuel Jurado]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

José Manuel Jurado (born 29 June 1986) is a Spanish football player. He plays for FC Schalke 04.

[[Ali Al-Habsi]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Omani people, Association football goalkeepers

Ali Al-Habsi (born 30 December 1981) is an Omani football player. He plays for Bolton Wanderers and the Oman national team.

[[Air India Express Flight 812]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 aviation disasters, 2010 in India, 2010s disasters in Asia, Disasters in India, Karnataka, May events, Transport in India

Air India Express Flight IX-812 was a passenger flight of Air India from Dubai International Airport that crashed on 22 May 2010 at Mangalore International Airport. The time of the crash was UTC+5:30 local time. The airplane went beyond the area of the runway and crashed. The accident killed about 160 people.

[[Otto Hahn]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1968 deaths, German academics, German chemists, German Nobel Prize winners, People from Frankfurt

Otto Hahn (8 March 1879 – 28 July 1968) was a German Nobel Prize winning chemist. He did pioneering research into the atom and he discovered nuclear fission (splitting the uranium atom) in 1938, together with Lise Meitner.

[[Air India]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 establishments in India, Star Alliance, Airlines of Asia, Companies of India, Transport in India, National symbols of India, IATA members

Air India (AI/AIC) (एअर इंडिया) (officially known as 'Air India Air Transport Services Limited') is the national airline company of India. Air India is part of the National Aviation Company of India Limited

[[Gonzalo Sorondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Uruguayan footballers, Sportspeople from Montevideo, Crystal Palace F.C. players

Gonzalo Sorondo (born 9 October 1979) is an Uruguayan football player. He has played for Uruguay national team.

[[Powerwolf]]

CATEGORIES: German heavy metal bands, Musical groups established in 2003, 2000s German music groups, 2010s German music groups, Power metal

Powerwolf is a German power metal band formed in 2003 by the ex-members of the rock band Red Aim. Powerwolf have released 7 albums: Return in Bloodred from 2005, Lupus Dei from 2007, Bible of the Beast from 2009, Blood of the Saints from 2011, Preachers of the Night from 2013, Blessed & Possessed from 2015, and The Sacrament of Sin from 2018. Their lyrics are based on Transylvanian werewolf and vampire legends.

[[Matt Holland]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, English footballers, Irish footballers, People from Bury, Sportspeople from Greater Manchester, Premier League players

Matt Holland (born 11 April 1974) is an Irish-British footballer. He has played for Republic of Ireland national team.

[[Captain (association football)]]

CATEGORIES: Association football

The team captain of a football team is a team member who is chosen to be the leader during a football match. Mostly a captain is an older or more experienced player. A team captain often wears an armband.

[[Maarten Stekelenburg]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, 2006 FIFA World Cup players, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, Dutch footballers, Association football goalkeepers, People from Haarlem, Sportspeople from North Holland

Maarten Stekelenburg (born 22 September 1982) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Ajax and Netherlands national team.

[[Rik van den Boog]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Rik van den Boog (born 1 September 1959 in Amsterdam) is the managing director of Dutch Football club AFC Ajax since October 2008.

On 22 May 2010 several media reported that stock holder of The Entertainment Group, Unico Glorie, has reported Rik van den Boog to police for Fraud and Theft. Unico Glorie says that Van den Boog made a payment of Euro 2.000.000  without permission. 

[[Taira Inoue]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Taira Inoue (born 11 April 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo Verdy.

[[Kensuke Fukuda]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Kensuke Fukuda is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an association football player.

[[Kenzo Taniguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Kagoshima Prefecture

Kenzo Taniguchi (born 22 December 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagan Tosu.

[[Kenichi Kaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Akita Prefecture

Kenichi Kaga (born 30 September 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Júbilo Iwata.

[[Yasuhiro Nomoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Niigata Prefecture

Yasuhiro Nomoto (born 25 June 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Fagiano Okayama.

[[Yuki Okada]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Yuki Okada is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a football player.

[[Machida Station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in Tokyo

Machida Station(町田駅,まちだえき) is a Railway station of JR East and Odakyu Electric Railway in Machida, Tokyo, Japan.

[[Demigod]]

CATEGORIES: Gods and goddesses

Demigods are people in mythology (usually Greek or Roman) who are half-god and half-human. They are special because of their godly parent. However, they normally have no great powers because of their human parent. Demigods are usually mortal but not always. An example of one is Hercules. His father, Jupiter (Zeus), made him a god after Hercules died. Other demigods from Classical mythology include Achilles, Heracles and Romulus and Remus.

[[Maicon Douglas Sisenando]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, Manchester City F.C. players

Maicon Douglas Sisenando (born 26 July 1981) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Roma and Brazil national team.

[[Masaharu Nishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Masaharu Nishi (born 29 May 1977) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Michiyasu Osada]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture

Michiyasu Osada (born 5 March 1978) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Toru Sano]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japanese football managers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Yokohama F. Marinos players

Toru Sano is a former Japanese football player and manager. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Atsushi Natori]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Footballers from Saitama Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, Japan Soccer League players, Urawa Red Diamonds players

Atsushi Natori is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Masaaki Mori]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan international footballers, Japan Soccer League players, Shonan Bellmare players

Masaaki Mori is a former Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Alexandre Pato]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Alexandre Pato (born 2 September 1989) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for S.C Corinthians and Brazil national team.

[[Shunta Takahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Toyama Prefecture

Shunta Takahashi (born 9 February 1989) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tochigi UVA.

[[Kazuyuki Kyoya]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Kazuyuki Kyoya is a former Japanese football player.

[[Roman Weidenfeller]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, German association football goalkeepers, Sportspeople from Rhineland-Palatinate

Roman Weidenfeller (born 6 August 1980) is a German football player. He plays for Borussia Dortmund.

[[Max Tonetto]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Italian footballers, People from Trieste

Max Tonetto (born 18 November 1974) is a retired Italian football player. He has played for Roma.

[[Jean-Marc Bosman]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Belgian footballers

Jean-Marc Bosman (born 30 October 1964) is a former Belgian football player.

[[Rodrigo Taddei]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Rodrigo Taddei (born 6 March 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Roma.

[[Takeshi Kuwahara]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Takeshi Kuwahara (born 10 May 1985) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jorge Burruchaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers

Jorge Burruchaga (born 9 October 1962) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.

[[Artur Boruc]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Polish footballers, Association football goalkeepers

Artur Boruc (born 20 February 1980) is a Polish football player. He plays for Fiorentina and Poland national team.

[[Liberal Party (Philippines)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the Philippines, Liberal parties

Liberal Party of the Philippines is a Liberal political party in the Philippines.

[[Aleksandr Mostovoi]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Russian footballers

Aleksandr Mostovoi (born 22 August 1968) is a former Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team and Russia national team.

[[Gregory van der Wiel]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Gregory van der Wiel (born 3 February 1988 in Amsterdam) is a Dutch football player who plays for Paris Saint-Germain. He plays as a defender.

Van der Wiel was playing for Ajax in 2007-2012. During 2002-2005 he was loaned out to HFC Haarlem.

[[Luis Suárez]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, 2018 FIFA World Cup players, Uruguayan footballers

Luis Alberto Suarez Diaz (born 24 January 1987 in Salto) is an Uruguayan footballer. He plays for  Atlético de Madrid and the Uruguay national team as a Striker. In his home country of Uruguay, he is considered to be one of the biggest ever talents of the country. The transfer between Nacional and FC Groningen, which cost 1.5 million Euros, was the biggest purchase ever in the teams' history from the Groningen province. Suarez is known as one of the best strikers in the world. 

His brother Paulo Suárez is also a professional footballer. 

Suarez has scored the most goals for the Uruguay national football team. 

Suarez has caused controversy with his biting incidents, such as when he bit Giorgio Chiellini during their 2014 FIFA World Cup match against Italy.

[[Arup]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 establishments in Europe, Engineering companies of the United Kingdom, 1940s establishments in the United Kingdom

Arup is a company that provides engineering, design, planning, project management and consulting services. It was once known as Ove Arup & Partners. It was founded in 1946  by Sir Ove Arup. The company (and its associated practices in Ireland, Africa and Asia) now has more than 7000 staff based in 73 offices in 32 countries. It has projects in more than 160 countries. In 2004-05, Arup had an annual profit of more than £400 million (US$700m). 

It is best known for its engineering design work. Projects it has helped with include the Sydney Opera House, the Pompidou Centre, the Oresund Bridge, the Seattle Library, the new De Young Museum, the HSBC headquarters in Hong Kong, the Channel Tunnel Rail Link and the London Millennium Bridge. 

[[Brownfield land]]

CATEGORIES: Urban planning

Brownfield sites are abandoned or not very used industrial and business places available for re-use. Expansion or redevelopment of such a facility may be difficult by real or possible environmental contaminations. thumb|280px|Example of brownfield land at a disused gasworks site after excavation, with soil contamination from removed underground storage tanks.

In the United States city planning language, a brownfield site (or simply a brownfield) is land previously used for industrial purposes or certain business uses. The land may be contaminated by low amounts of hazardous waste or pollution. It has the potential to be reused once it is cleaned up. Land that is more severely contaminated and has high levels of hazardous waste or pollution, such as a Superfund site, does not fall under the brownfield classification. Mothballed brownfields are properties which the owners are not willing to transfer or put to productive reuse.

In the United Kingdom and Australia, the term applies more generally to previously used land.

[[Manchester Regional Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Stadiums in the United Kingdom

The Manchester Regional Arena is a stadium in Manchester, England used mostly for athletics and association football.  It was originally made as the warm-up track for the 2002 Commonwealth Games held at the City of Manchester Stadium which is next to it.  It has hosted the AAA Championships and Paralympic World Cup.  It is the current home of the Manchester City reserve team.

[[Royston Drenthe]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Rotterdam

Royston Rikki Drenthe (born 1987 in Rotterdam) is a Dutch professional football player. He currently plays for Real Madrid. 

[[Michael Lindeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Dutch football managers

Michael Lindeman (b. 1 April 1964) is Dutch football manager. 2013, he was the assistant manager of the English club FC Fulham. Before that, he worked for the Dutch club Ajax. He mainly focuses on the fitness of the players.Currently , He  worked for Al Ahly SC .

[[Uri Coronel]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, Dutch football managers, Dutch Jews, Jewish sportspeople, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Maurice Uriel "Uri" Coronel (24 December 1946 in Amsterdam – 18 July 2016 in Amsterdam) was the chairman of Dutch football club Ajax from 2008 through 2011.

Coronel was the person behind the move from De Meer to the current stadium named Amsterdam Arena. In 2007 he was the head commissioner of an investigation to the club's functioning.

Coronel was of Jewish descent. He died in the summer of 2016 at the age of 69.

[[Paul Phoenix (Tekken)]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken characters

Paul Phoenix is a karate master in the Tekken video game series. He has appeared in all the Tekken games to date. Paul's rival is Marshall Law.

[[Lei Wulong]]

CATEGORIES: Tekken characters

Lei Wulong is a character in the Tekken video game series. He is a Five Form Kung Fu expert. He has appeared in all of the Tekken games so far, except for the first game.

[[Manchester Velodrome]]

CATEGORIES: Manchester, Cycling, 1994 establishments in England

Manchester Velodrome is an indoor cycle-racing track (or velodrome) in Manchester, in the north west of England. It opened in September 1994 and is the United Kingdom's leading indoor Olympic-standard track. Today it is home to the National Cycling Centre, and the headquarters of British Cycling, the national governing body. It is open to the public.

It hosted the track cycling in the 2002 Commonwealth Games, and the UCI world championships in 1996, 2000 and 2008.

The track has a reputation for speed. By 30 March 2008, more than 15 world records had been set thererecords. The records include Chris Boardman's 1996 and 2000 hour records and the 4000 metre team pursuit record set by the Great Britain men's team at the 2008 World Championships.

The track is 250 metres long. Its bankings reach 42 degrees in the middle. The track is as steep at the top as it is on the black (racing) line. On 21 May 2007 the velodrome closed to be re-surfaced. The old track was relaid with Siberian pine. It reopened on 16 July 2007, and is now considered smoother to ride.

[[2012 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in the United States, 2012 elections, Barack Obama, United States presidential elections

The 2012 United States presidential election happened on November 6, 2012. Barack Obama, the incumbent president and Democratic candidate, won the election. He defeated Mitt Romney, the Republican candidate, who was the former Governor of Massachusetts. There were also elections for the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives. 

By November 6, 2012, 11:30 PM ET (5:30 AM UTC), many broadcast networks said that Obama and Biden won the election. Mitt Romney of the Republican Party conceded the election to Obama around 1 AM ET on November 7. Gary Johnson of the Libertarian Party came in third.

[[The Kippax]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in the United Kingdom

The Kippax was one of the most well known stands at Manchester City's Maine Road Ground. Originally the Popular Stand, its name was changed in 1957. The Kippax was unusual in that unlike in most other grounds, this area of support occupied a full side rather than an end of the ground. In 1994, due to the Taylor Report, the new redeveloped, all seater stand was opened by City legend Bert Trautmann. It housed 10,000 fans and had three levels. At the time it was the highest stand in the country.

The club left the Maine Road ground in 2003 and moved to the new City of Manchester Stadium.. This of course bought the end for one of City's most loved stands, The Kippax. Unofficially, the East stand in the new stadium is also named Kippax.

[[UEFA Women's Euro 2005]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in association football, 2005 in England, Lancashire, Football in England, UEFA, June 2005 events

The 2005 UEFA Women's Championship, also called WOMEN'S EURO 2005 (trademark of UEFA), was a football tournament for women held from 5 June to 19 June 2005 in Lancashire, England. The UEFA Women's Championship is a regular tournament involving European national teams from countries that are part of UEFA, the European governing body, who have qualified for the competition. The competition tries to determine which national women's team is the best in Europe.

Germany won the competition for the fourth consecutive tournament.  It was the sixth time overall (including one win in the predecessor tournament, the European Competition for Representative Women's Teams) that they won. Their championship win was the last for coach Tina Theune-Meyer, who months earlier had announced that she would retire at the end of the tournament. In her nine years in charge of Germany, they won three European titles, two bronze medals in the Olympics, and the 2003 World Cup.

[[Laurent Robert]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, French footballers, People from Réunion

Laurent Robert (born 21 May 1975) is a French football player. He has played for France national team.

[[Nicolae Mitea]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Romanian footballers, Sportspeople from Bucharest

Nicolae Mitea (born 24 March 1985) is a Romanian football player. He has played for Romania national team.

[[Yasumichi Uchima]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Okinawa Prefecture

Yasumichi Uchima (born 10 September 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gainare Tottori.

[[Rodrigo Fabri]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Rodrigo Fabri (born 15 January 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[Public health]]

CATEGORIES: Public health, Medicine

Public health is the science dealing with prevention there is a disease that is a threat to the overall health of a community, as well as with prolonging life and promoting health. The aims are achieved through the organized efforts and informed choices of society, public and private organizations, communities and individuals. 

It bases on health analysis of a handful of people or all the inhabitants of several continents rather than on an individual.  Public health includes such parts as epidemiology, biostatistics, health services, environmental, social, behavioral, and occupational health. 

Public health intervention prevents rather than treats a disease through surveillance of cases and promotes healthy behaviors such as hand washing, vaccination programs and distribution of condoms. In outbreaks of an infectious disease, treating a disease may be vital to preventing it in others. 

Most countries have their own government public health agencies, sometimes known as ministries of health, to respond to domestic health issues. Many diseases are preventable through simple, non-medical methods. Public health plays an important role in disease prevention efforts in the developing world and in developed countries, through local health systems and through international non-governmental organizations. In the developing world, there may not be enough trained health workers or monetary resources to provide a basic level of medical care and disease prevention.  

[[Tsubasa Watabe]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Tsubasa Watabe (born 13 December 1986) is a Japanese football player.

[[Marcos Assunção]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Marcos Assunção (born 25 July 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.

[[James McFadden]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Scottish footballers

James McFadden (born 14 April 1983) is a Scottish football player. He plays for Birmingham City and Scotland national team.

[[Richard Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, English association football goalkeepers, Manchester City F.C. players, People from Ipswich

Richard Wright (born 5 November 1977) is an English football player. He has played for England national team.

[[Lawrence Akandu]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Chinese footballers

Lawrence Akandu (born 10 December 1974) is a Hong Kong football player. He has played for Hong Kong national team.

[[Marco Cassetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Italian footballers, Sportspeople from Lombardy, People from Brescia

Marco Cassetti (born 29 May 1977) is an Italian football player. He plays for Roma.

[[Piyapong Pue-on]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Thai football managers, Thai footballers

Piyapong Pue-on (born 14 November 1959) is a Thai football manager and former football player. He played for Thailand national team.

[[Aaron Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Northern Irish footballers

Aaron Hughes (born 8 November 1979) is a Northern Irish football player. He plays for Fulham and Northern Ireland national team.

[[Wilfred Bouma]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Helmond, Sportspeople from North Brabant

Wilfred Bouma (born 15 June 1978) is a Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.

[[Sho Miyasaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Sho Miyasaka (born 6 June 1988) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Seiji Sonoda]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Seiji Sonoda (born 30 November 1988) is a Japanese football player.

[[Thomas Myhre]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Norwegian footballers, Association football goalkeepers, Crystal Palace F.C. players

Thomas Myhre (born 16 October 1973) is a Norwegian football player. He has played for Norway national team.

[[Tom Finney]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2014 deaths, English footballers, Sportspeople from Lancashire

Tom Finney (5 April 1922 – 14 February 2014) was an English footballer. He played for England national team.

[[Nat Lofthouse]]

CATEGORIES: English footballers, People from Bolton, Sportspeople from Lancashire, 1925 births, 2011 deaths

Nat Lofthouse (27 August 1925 – 15 January 2011) was an English footballer. He played for the England national team. He was born in Bolton, and died there on 15 January 2011 at 85 years old.

[[Antonio Carbajal]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Mexican footballers, Mexican football managers, Sportspeople from Mexico City, Association football goalkeepers, 1950 FIFA World Cup players, 1954 FIFA World Cup players, 1958 FIFA World Cup players, 1962 FIFA World Cup players, 1966 FIFA World Cup players

Antonio Carbajal (born 7 June 1929) is a Mexican retired football player. He has played for Mexico national team.

[[Daniel Van Buyten]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Belgian footballers

Daniel Van Buyten (born 7 February 1978) is a Belgian football player. He plays for Bayern Munich and Belgium national team.

[[Epidemiology]]

CATEGORIES: Public health, Epidemiology

Epidemiology is the study of factors that influence the health and illness of populations.  The three levels of causation of health problems include individual behavioral level, individual biological level, and political-economic ecological level.  Epidemiologists aim to understand the causes of health problems by looking at the relationship between agents, hosts, and environmental factors that affects health.  Using these information, they also design public health interventions to solve various health problems among populations.  They regularly evaluate the health of populations, tries to identify which populations have greater risk from specific causes of diseases, and evaluates the effectiveness of the intervention programs or methods that they create.  In essence, epidemiology provides the backbone or foundation of public health and preventative medicine practices. 

There are two types of epidemiology: descriptive and analytic.  Descriptive epidemiology aims to describe the distribution of people who gets sick (versus those who don't) with regards to time, place, and person (TPP).  TPP can also be thought of as answering the questions of when, who, and what respectively; in other words it investigates when a health issue or disease first emerged in a population, who in the population are getting sick, and where the disease/health condition seems to have first originated and spread from.  Analytic epidemiology then uses the data provided by TPP to make and test hypothesis which aim to determine the cause of an outbreak or disease cluster among a population.  Epidemiologist evaluate morbidity (people who are sick or injured) and mortality (people who are killed) to understand the burden of disease among populations.

A key aspect of epidemiology is surveillance studies, which provides the numerical data and statistics that epidemiologists use.  Surveillance studies are done systematically to monitor the health of populations and helps with identifying any new health problems or disease that may develop, as well as evaluating the effectiveness of existing health intervention measures in place. These studies also rely on TPP to collect data and presents it in simple graphs and tables which are easy to summarize and understand.  These studies are especially important in helping guide policy making decisions and helping epidemiologists understand which interventions work and which don't.  It is also important for donors as they rely on surveillance data to analyze the usefulness of their investments and whether it is being used effectively or not.

[[Masakatsu Sawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture

Masakatsu Sawa (born 12 January 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashiwa Reysol.

[[Intercontinental Broadcasting Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Intercontinental Broadcasting Corporation, Quezon City

Intercontinental Broadcasting Corporation is a television network in the Philippines owned by the government. The studios of the station is located at Broadcast City Capitol Hills Diliman, Quezon City.

[[Paul-Henri Mathieu]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, French tennis players, Male tennis players, People from Strasbourg

Paul-Henri Mathieu (born 12 January 1982 in Strasbourg) is a French tennis player. He made his ATP tour debut in July 2000, in Kitzbühel. He won the ATP Newcomer of the Year award for 2002.

[[Kentaro Kawasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Kentaro Kawasaki (born 18 December 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kataller Toyama.

[[Pooper-scooper]]

CATEGORIES: Pets

A pooper-scooper, or poo scoop, is a device or a ‘poo bag’ used by pet owners to pick up an animal's fecal matter from public places and yards.  Such devices often have a bag or bag attachment.  The ‘poop bag’ is usually turned inside out, to carry the feces to a proper disposal area. The person performing the cleanup might also be called a pooper-scooper.

[[Seiya Fujita]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture, People from Sapporo

Seiya Fujita  is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football player.

[[Daigo Nishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo players, Albirex Niigata players, Kashima Antlers players, Vissel Kobe players, Urawa Red Diamonds players

Daigo Nishi is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Heterokont]]

CATEGORIES: Algae, Protista

The heterokonts or stramenopiles are a major line of eukaryotes with more than 100,000 known species, most of them diatoms.

Heterokonts are mostly algae. In one stage of their life cycle they have two unequal flagella. They include both single-celled types and brown algae (seaweeds such as kelp and Sargassum). They are members of the Kingdom Chromalveolata.

[[Metastability]]

CATEGORIES: Chemicals, Physics

Metastability has slightly different meanings in different fields of knowledge. The general idea, however, is that something is metastable if it is not changing, yet given a small force ("nudge") it will transition to another, more stable state. 

For example, a block is sitting on a slope (an "inclined plane"). It keeps sitting there until it is nudged, or the slope is gently struck, setting up vibrations. Then the block starts to slide. At that point it keeps sliding until it reaches the bottom. The block sitting at the bottom is stable. The block sitting on the slope but not moving is metastable. And the block as it is moving is unstable. 

A real life example of this is an avalanche of snow. The avalanche is unstable (the snow is sliding down the mountainside). When the avalanche is over the snow is stable. Before the avalanche starts, the snow is metastable, since some small perturbation is enough to cause it to lose what might have seemed to be stability, but in fact was only metastability.

[[Cryptomonad]]

CATEGORIES: Algae, Protista

The Cryptomonads (or Cryptophyta) are a phylum of algae, most of which have chloroplasts. 

They are common in freshwater, and also occur in marine and brackish habitats.  Each cell is around 10-50 μm in size and flattened in shape, with an anterior groove or pocket.  At the edge of the pocket there are typically two slightly unequal flagella.

Some may exhibit mixotrophy, using mixed sources of energy.

[[England women's national football team]]

CATEGORIES: Women's national football teams, Football in England, 1970s establishments in England, 1972 establishments in the United Kingdom

The England women's national football team plays for England in international women's football. The side has been quite successful of late. The team has qualified for five World Cups: 1995, 2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019.

In May 2009, it was announced that a number of the England Women's Team would be awarded central contracts, to help the players concentrate on full-time training and playing, without having to fit it around full-time employment. Seventeen players initially signed contracts.

In 2009, the team reached the European Championships Final, losing 6–2 to Germany. In 2015, the side had their most impressive achievement to date by finishing in third place in the 2015 World Cup.

[[Planck constant]]

CATEGORIES: Numbers, Physics

The Planck constant (Planck's constant) says how much the energy of a photon increases, when the frequency of its electromagnetic wave increases by 1 (In SI Units). It is named after the physicist Max Planck.  The Planck constant is a fundamental physical constant. It is written as h.

The Planck constant has dimensions of physical action: energy multiplied by time, or momentum multiplied by distance. In SI units, the Planck constant is expressed in joule seconds (J⋅s) or (N⋅m⋅s) or (kg⋅m2⋅s−1).

The symbols are defined here.

In SI Units the Planck constant is exactly 6.62607015 J·s (by definition). Scientists have used this quantity to calculate measurements like the Planck length and the Planck time.

[[Sebastian Coe]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, British male athletes, British Olympic gold medalists, British Olympic silver medalists, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Medalists at the 1980 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1984 Summer Olympics, Politicians from London, Politicians from Yorkshire, Sportspeople from London, Sportspeople from Sheffield, Sportspeople from Warwickshire, United Kingdom Life Peers

Sebastian Newbold Coe, Baron Coe CH KBE (born 29 September 1956, and often nicknamed "Seb Coe") is a former athlete and politician from the United Kingdom. A middle distance runner, Coe won the 1500 m gold medal at the Olympic Games in 1980 and 1984, and set eight outdoor and three indoor world records. He is widely considered to be amongst the greatest middle distance runners of all time. Following his retirement from athletics, he served as a Member of Parliament for the Conservative Party from 1992-97. He became a life peer in 2000. He is the head of the London bid to host the 2012 Summer Olympics. After the International Olympic Committee awarded the games to London, he became the chairman of the London Organising Committee for the Olympic Games. In 2007, he was also elected a vice-president of the International Association of Athletics Federations.

[[Theme restaurant]]

CATEGORIES: Restaurants

Theme restaurants are.restaurants in which the idea for the restaurant takes priority. It influences the architecture, food, music, and overall "feel" of the restaurant. The food usually takes a backseat to the presentation of the theme. These restaurants generally attract customers only because of the theme itself.

One example is the Rainforest Cafe restaurants which have the obvious theme of a "Tropical Rainforest". Medieval Times has its theme of "Medieval Europe". The Jekyll & Hyde Club has an atmosphere of Jack the Ripper and Victorian horror novels.  One strange but famous theme restaurant in Berlin, Germany is called "das Klo" (German for "The toilet"). It shows the insides of a toilet.

Many people consider the Rainforest Cafe to be biggest example of a theme restaurant.  They also consider it the restaurant which kicked off the theme restaurant trend. Theme restaurants may be experiencing a decline in popularity, given the closings of several Planet Hollywood, Jekyll & Hyde Club, and Wilderness Cafe locations in recent years. Theme restaurants often depend on tourist business, since the theme soon becomes stale to locals. The focus is not necessarily placed on good food and service. Certain tourist destinations such as the Mall of America or Orlando, Florida have better chances of supporting theme restaurants. Theme restaurants are generally common at theme parks, such as Universal Studios.

[[John Laing plc]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United Kingdom, 1848 establishments in Europe, 1840s establishments in the United Kingdom

John Laing plc is a British developer and operator of privately financed, public sector infrastructure projects such as roads, railways, hospitals and schools. Before being bought by Henderson Private Equity in December 2006, John Laing plc was listed on the London Stock Exchange and was part of the FTSE 250 Index.

[[Christian Eriksen]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Danish footballers, Living people, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players

Christian Dannemann Eriksen (born 14 February 1992) is a Danish footballer who plays for the Italian club Inter Milan and the Denmark national team as an midfielder. He made his debut for the Denmark national team in March 2010, and was the youngest player of the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa. 

In 2011, Eriksen was named Danish Football Player of the Year, Dutch Football Talent of the Year, Ajax Talent of the Year (Marco van Basten Award), and made the UEFA Euro U-21 Team of the Tournament. He won the Eredivisie with Ajax in 2010–11, 2011–12, and in 2012–13 before signing with Tottenham Hotspur in August 2013. He won the Tottenham Hotspur Player of the Year award for the 2013–14 season and in 2015, he won the Danish Football Player of the Year award for the second year in a row.

[[Norman Foster (architect)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, English architects, United Kingdom Life Peers, People from Stockport, Greater Manchester, Order of Merit, Knights Bachelor, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, People from Cheshire, People from Manchester, Pritzker Prize winners, Members of the House of Lords

Norman Robert Foster, Baron Foster of Thames Bank, OM, FRIBA, FCSD, RDI (born 1 June 1935) is an English architect. His company, Foster and Partners, has an international design practice. He is the United Kingdom's biggest builder of landmark office buildings.

He is one of Britain's most prolific architects of his generation. In 1999, he was awarded the Pritzker Architecture Prize, often referred to as the Nobel Prize of architecture.  In 2009 Foster was awarded the Prince of Asturias Award in the Arts category.

[[Cessna 152]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft, Cessna aircraft

The Cessna 152 is a single-engine airplane.  It can carry up to two people including the pilot. Many pilots throughout the world have gotten their training with C152s.

[[Thomas Heatherwick]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Artists from London, British fashion designers, Living people

Thomas Heatherwick (born 17th February 1970) is an English designer and artist. He is known for innovative use of engineering and materials in public monuments and sculptures. He heads the Heatherwick Studio, which he founded in 1994.

[[Louver]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements

A louver (American English) or louvre (British English), from the French l'ouvert; "the open one") is a window, blind or shutter with horizontal or, less often, vertical slats. They are angled to allow light and air in. They also keep out rain, direct sunshine, and noise.  The angle of the slats may be adjusted.

Louvers come from the Middle Ages as lantern-like constructions in wood that were fitted on top of roof holes. They were put in large kitchens to allow ventilation while keeping out rain and snow.  They were originally rather rough constructions consisting only of a barrel. Later they became more elaborate designs made of pottery. They took the shape of faces where the smoke and steam from cooking would pour out through the eyes and mouth. They also became more like modern louvers, with slats that could be opened or closed by pulling on a string.

More modern louver windows are made of slats of glass, opened and closed with a metal lever.  They may also be shutters of wood, plastic or other material.

Some modern louver systems serve to improve indoor daylighting. Fixed mirrored louver systems can limit glare and of redirect diffuse light.  Such louvers may be put in between two panes of double glazing.

Louvers are rarely seen as primary design elements in the language of modern architecture. They are rather simply a technical device. However, there are examples of architects who use them as part of the overall aesthetic effect of their buildings. The most well-known example is Finnish modernist architect Alvar Aalto who would create aesthetic effects in the facades of his buildings through the combination of different types and sizes of louvers. Some are fixed and some are moveable. They are made mostly from wood (e.g. the various buildings of the Helsinki University of Technology). A second example, taking influence from Aalto, is the second-generation modernist architect Juha Leiviskä.

Additionally, louvers are used as semi-passive means of thermal control on spacecraft. They are also available as an accessory for some automobiles.

[[Lost (season 6)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 in American television, 2010 television seasons, American television seasons

The sixth and final season of the American television series Lost began broadcast in the United States and Canada on February 2, 2010. In the final 18 TV episodes, the writers showed the fate of the remaining survivors, and explained the powers which the Island held in their lives. The sixth-season premiere was the first to climb in the ratings year-over-year since the second season, drawing 12.1 million viewers. The series finale aired on May 23, 2010. The final episode ran 2.5 hours starting at 9/8 CDT, pushing the late-night news back a half-hour. It was followed by the previously announced post-finale special, Jimmy Kimmel Live: Aloha to Lost, at 12:05 a.m. (11:05 CDT). The season continued the stories of the survivors of the fictional September 22, 2004 crash of Oceanic Airlines Flight 815, on an unknown island in the South Pacific. The survivors must deal with two outcomes of the explosion of a nuclear bomb on the island in the 1970s. While the on-island story continues, a set of "flash sideways" scenes show a second timeline, in which Flight 815 never crashes. The season was released on DVD and Blu-ray on August 24, 2010, alongside a complete series boxset.

For a summary of the final season's storyline, see below: "Season 6 plot summary".

[[Weather map]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology

A weather map is a tool. It shows facts about the weather quickly.  Weather maps have been used from the mid-19th century, for study and for weather forecasting. Some maps show differences of temperature, and weather fronts. 

A station model is a symbolic picture showing the weather at a reporting station. Meteorologists made the station model to put down many weather elements in a small space on weather maps. Maps thickly filled with station-model plots can be hard to read. However, they help meteorologists, pilots, and mariners to see important weather patterns. A computer draws a station model for every place of observation. The station model is mostly used for surface-weather maps. It can also be used to show the weather in the sky, though. A complete station-model map lets people study patterns in air pressure, temperature, wind, cloud cover, and precipitation.

[[Junpei Shinmura]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture, People from Osaka

Junpei Shinmura (born 13 October 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for General Caballero.

[[Sandro Hiroshi]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers

Sandro Hiroshi (born 19 November 1979) is a Brazilian football player.

[[Takumi Oguri]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Takumi Oguri (born 5 June 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Honda.

[[Kimitoshi Nōgawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Wakayama Prefecture

Kimitoshi Nōgawa (born 6 February 1984) is a Japanese football player.

[[Yoshiaki Shimojo]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Footballers from Nagano Prefecture

Yoshiaki Shimojo (born 10 May 1954) is a former Japanese football player.Japan-sports-bio-stub

[[Matteo Ferrari]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Italian footballers

Matteo Ferrari (born 5 December 1979) is an Italian football player. He plays for Beşiktaş.

[[Hiroaki Kumon]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Kanagawa Prefecture

Hiroaki Kumon (born 20 October 1966) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Tsuneyuki Ueda]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Miyazaki Prefecture

Tsuneyuki Ueda (born 3 July 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Honda Lock.

[[Shunsuke Iwanuma]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Gunma Prefecture

Shunsuke Iwanuma (born 2 June 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Consadole Sapporo.

[[Yasuaki Okamoto]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Kumamoto Prefecture

Yasuaki Okamoto (born 9 April 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Consadole Sapporo.

[[Tomotaka Kitamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Mie Prefecture

Tomotaka Kitamura (born 27 May 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.

[[Hatem Trabelsi]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Tunisian footballers

Hatem Trabelsi (born 25 January 1977) is a former Tunisian football player. He has played for Tunisia national team.

[[Takuya Matsuura]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Takuya Matsuura (born 21 December 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Júbilo Iwata.

[[Ryu Okada]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Ryu Okada (born 10 April 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Júbilo Iwata.

[[Ryohei Yamazaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Footballers from Niigata Prefecture

Ryohei Yamazaki (born 14 March 1989) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Júbilo Iwata.

[[Yohei Kurakawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Yohei Kurakawa (born 10 August 1977) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashiwa Reysol.

[[Koki Yonekura]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Chiba Prefecture, Japan international footballers, J1 League players, J2 League players, J3 League players, JEF United Chiba players, Gamba Osaka players, Gamba Osaka U-23 players

Koki Yonekura is a Japanese football player. He played for the Japan national team.

[[Kazushige Kirihata]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamanashi Prefecture, Japanese association football goalkeepers

Kazushige Kirihata (born 30 June 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashiwa Reysol.

[[Takahiro Takagi]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Ishikawa Prefecture, Albirex Niigata players

Takahiro Takagi is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as a Association football or soccer player.

[[Kazuya Kawabata]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Kazuya Kawabata is a Japanese football player.

[[Ryota Takasugi]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Footballers from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Ryota Takasugi  is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football player.

[[Shinsaku Mochidome]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Footballers from Osaka Prefecture

Shinsaku Mochidome is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football player.

[[Kenichi Ego]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Footballers from Hyōgo Prefecture

Kenichi Ego is a Japanese professional athlete.  He is best known as an Association football player.

[[Chaetognatha]]

CATEGORIES: Minor phyla

Chaetognatha, commonly known as arrow worms, are a phylum of small predatory marine animals. They are present in huge numbers in plankton worldwide.

About 20% of the known species are benthic and can attach to algae or rocks. They are found in all marine waters from surface tropical waters and shallow tide pools to the deep sea and polar regions. Most chaetognaths are transparent and are torpedo shaped, but some deep-sea species are orange. They range in size from 2.

Despite the huge numbers, there are only about 120 modern species in 20 genera. Some species are known to use the neurotoxin tetrodotoxin to subdue their prey.

Chaetognaths appear to have originated in the Cambrian Period. Complete body fossils have been described from China, and the Middle Cambrian Burgess Shale of British Columbia.

These animals are usually considered a type of protostome.

[[Pepper spray]]

CATEGORIES: Capsicum, Safety, Law enforcement equipment

Pepper spray (also called OC spray, from Oleoresin capsicum) is a spray used for self-defence, by spraying it into an attacker's face. It makes eyes water and causes intense pain, sometimes even leading to temporary blindness. Pepper spray is an inflammatory agent. When someone is sprayed with pepper spray, their eyes will close and they will have difficulty breathing, a runny nose, and cough. The stronger the spray is, the longer the effects last, but the average full effect lasts around thirty to forty-five minutes, with longer effects lasting for hours. Pepper spray is mostly used by police forces for riot control, but in some countries people can use it for self-defence. 

The active ingredient in pepper spray is capsaicin, a chemical found in capsicums, chillis and other members of the pepper family. 

Pepper spray usually comes in canisters and can be sprayed up to twenty-five metres.

[[Roy Lichtenstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1997 deaths, American artists, Deaths from pneumonia, People from New York City, Pop artists, Andy Warhol

Roy Lichtenstein (October 27, 1923 – September 29, 1997) was an American artist. He is famous for his work in the "pop art" style around the late 1950s to early 1960s. He was friends with artist Andy Warhol.

He was born and grew up in New York City. After serving in the United States Army during World War II, he finished his education at Ohio State University and began teaching in colleges.

Lichtenstein was interested in popular culture, including comic books and advertising. He made his art about topics like these. He liked to make his art colorful and with bright lines.

Lichtenstein died of pneumonia.

[[Sodor (fictional island)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional locations

Sodor is a fictional island in the Irish Sea used as the setting for The Railway Series books by the Rev. W. Awdry, and later used in the Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends television series.

[[Tomoki Suzuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Tomoki Suzuki (born 8 June 1985) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Yuki Kaneko]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Footballers from Tokyo Prefecture

Yuki Kaneko (born 29 May 1982) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Jorge Sebastian Nunez]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Argentine footballers

Jorge Sebastián Núñez (born 10 December 1986) is a former Argentine football player.

[[Hiroshi Kichise]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Footballers from Fukuoka Prefecture

Hiroshi Kichise (born 10 July 1983) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Zheng Zhi]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Chinese footballers

Zheng Zhi (born 20 August 1980) is a Chinese football player. He plays for Celtic and China PR national team.

[[Shinya Tokuni]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture

Shinya Tokuni (born 8 April 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Shogo Ebisawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Footballers from Hokkaidō Prefecture, People from Sapporo

Shogo Ebisawa (born 29 July 1985) is a former Japanese football player.

[[Michihisa Date]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Footballers from Shizuoka Prefecture

Michihisa Date is a Japanese professional athlete and coach.  He is best known as an Association football or soccer player.

[[Dejan Petković]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Serbian footballers

Dejan Petković (born 10 September 1972) is a Serbian football player. He has played for Serbia national team.

[[Alexei Shirov]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Latvian chess players, People from Riga, Soviet sportspeople, Chess grandmasters

During the 1998 Linares chess tournament Shirov played black against future FIDE world champion Veselin Topalov and won with a piece sacrifice in a bishop and pawn ending.

1.d4 Nf6 2.c4 g6 3.Nc3 d5 4.cxd5 Nxd5 5.e4 Nxc3 6.bxc3 Bg7 7.Bb5+ c6 8.Ba4 O-O 9.Ne2 Nd7 10.O-O e5 11.f3 Qe7 12.Be3 Rd8 13.Qc2 Nb6 14.Bb3 Be6 15.Rad1 Nc4 16.Bc1 b5 17.f4 exd4 18.Nxd4 Bg4 19.Rde1 Qc5 20.Kh1 a5 21.h3 Bd7 22.a4 bxa4 23.Ba2 Be8 24.e5 Nb6 25.f5 Nd5 26.Bd2 Nb4 27.Qxa4 Nxa2 28.Qxa2 Bxe5 29.fxg6 hxg6 30.Bg5 Rd5 31.Re3 Qd6 32.Qe2 Bd7 33.c4 Bxd4 34.cxd5 Bxe3 35.Qxe3 Re8 36.Qc3 Qxd5 37.Bh6 Re5 38.Rf3 Qc5 39.Qa1 Bf5 40.Re3 f6 41.Rxe5 Qxe5 42.Qa2+ Qd5 43.Qxd5+ cxd5 44.Bd2 a4 45.Bc3 Kf7 46.h4 Ke6 47.Kg1 Bh3!! (see diagram) 48.gxh3 Kf5 49.Kf2 Ke4 50.Bxf6 d4 51.Be7 Kd3 52.Bc5 Kc4 53.Be7 Kb3 0-1

[[Tweenies]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series, Nickelodeon television series, BBC Television programmes, English-language television programs, 1999 television series debuts, 2002 television series endings

The Tweenies is an British TV show for children shown on the Nickelodeon in the United States and BBC in the United Kingdom. The show is set in a preschool attended by the four Tweenies: Milo, Jake, Bella and Fizz, also with two adults Max and Judy, and two dogs, Doodles and Izzles. The theme song is "Hey, hey, are you ready to play". It was first shown on September 6, 1999. It is made by Tell-Tale Productions and Nick Jr. Productions. Hit songs from the show include "I Believe In Christmas", "Number 1" which went into the Top 10, "Best Friends Forever", "Do The Lollipop", "Have Fun, Go Mad!" which went into the Top 20. They also have a number 56 hit album and a number 34 hit Christmas album. Video games include an action game by BBC Multimedia/Tell-Tale called "Tweenies: Doodles' Bones" which was released in 2005 and a compilation game by BBC Multimedia/Various called "Tweenies: Game Time"  which was released in 2003.

[[Pavel Eljanov]]

CATEGORIES: Ukrainian chess players, 1983 births, Living people, Chess grandmasters

[[Lactase]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Enzymes, Evolutionary biology

Lactase is an enzyme which acts on lactose, breaking it down so it can be digested. 

Mammals in their infancy usually make lactase: they need it for digesting the lactose found in their mother's milk. Mammalian adults usually lose the capacity to produce lactase. Thus, if you give milk to an adult cat it causes discomfort and diarrhea.

[[Tanduay]]

CATEGORIES: 1854 establishments, Alcoholic spirits, Companies of the Philippines, 1850s establishments in Asia, Establishments in the Philippines

Tanduay Rhum is an alcoholic drink from the Philippines. It is produced by Tanduay Distillers Inc., and with origins dating from 1854. 

[[Asia Brewery]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the Philippines, 1982 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in the Philippines

Asia Brewery is a brewery founded in 1982 in Makati City, the Philippines. It is one of only two breweries in the Philippines, and is the smaller of the two, with only 10% market share. It is owned by Lucio Tan, listed by Forbes Magazine as the second richest Filipino in the Philippines, with assets worth $1.5 billion.

[[Ginebra San Miguel]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the Philippines, 1902 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in the Philippines

Ginebra San Miguel, Inc. (GSMI) is a Philippines-based alcoholic drink company. It is owned by San Miguel Corporation, then called La Tondeňa Distillers, Inc. (LTDI) from 1987 to 2003.  Founded originally by the late Carlos Palanca, Sr. as La Tondeña, Inc. (LTI) in 1902 in the district of Tondo, Manila (where its name come from), it manufactures a range of products and carries packaging innovations that satisfy the needs of its target consumers. Its main product is hard liquor.

[[Fox (Asia)]]

CATEGORIES: Fox Broadcasting Company, 1998 establishments in Asia

Fox is an Asian Entertainment TV channel, owned and produced by Fox International Channels and distributed by STAR TV. In Japan the channel launch in February 1998 along with other Fox Channels like Fox Crime, Fox life among others. Fox Japan has different programming compared to Fox Asia.

In Asia, the channel was in test broadcast on December 2009, broadcasting US TV series in loop. The first Asian provider who carried Fox was SkyCable in the Philippines launched the channel on January 5, 2010 followed by StarHub TV in Singapore on February 1, 2010.  Other TV providers across the region followed thereafter.  

[[WarnerTV]]

CATEGORIES: Time Warner subsidiaries, Miami, Florida

Warner Channel (often shortened to WBTV) is an Asian and Latin American TV channel owned by HBO (along with company Warner Bros.) that focuses on airing American-made series and films. Most of the shows air in their original English language audio with subtitles in different languages.

WarnerTV headquarters are located in Brazil, Venezuela, Chile, Singapore and Malaysia, however the broadcasting is based in Miami.

[[All Sports Network]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Hong Kong, Television channels, Sports media, Asian culture

All Sports Network is a 24-hour Pan Asian sports channel. All Sports Network has exclusive coverage of some of the America’s biggest sports and other action events from around the world. Some of these sports are the U.S. National Football League (NFL – up to 4 live games per week), the National Hockey League (NHL – up to 5 live games per week), and NCAA college basketball and football, March Madness, motor sports (such as Formula Drift, Touring Car, GT racing), Extreme Sports, Pro Bull Riding, and UFC (Ultimate Fighting Championship).

[[RHTV]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the Philippines, Television stations, 2008 establishments in Asia

DZRH Television or RHTV is a 24-hour cable channel of Manila Broadcasting Company in the Philippines. Its programs are mainly from MBC's AM station DZRH. DZRH-TV can be seen on Cignal Digital TV channel 30, Cablelink channel 9, and 54 cable TV affiliates nationwide, as well as live internet TV streaming on their official website.

[[NBA TV]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), American television networks, Sports in Atlanta, Georgia, Companies based in Atlanta, Georgia

NBA TV is a television specialty channel that is dedicated to showcasing the sport of basketball in the United States. The network is financially backed by the National Basketball Association (NBA), which also uses NBA TV as a way of advertising their out of market package NBA League Pass, and partner channel TNT.

[[HBO Asia]]

CATEGORIES: HBO, Time Warner subsidiaries, Television channels, 1992 establishments in Asia

HBO Asia is a franchise of HBO in Asia. HBO Asia is now a joint venture of media giants Viacom (25%) and Time Warner (75%). Sony Pictures Entertainment and Universal Studios exited the fifteen year-old HBO Asia premium movie joint venture on January 16, 2008.

[[Discovery Channel (South East Asian TV channel)]]

CATEGORIES: Asia, Television channels

Discovery Channel (formerly The Discovery Channel) is an Asian satellite and cable TV channel which provides documentary programming. Its documentaries focused mainly on popular science, technology, history and culture, similar to that of the National Geographic Channel and History.

It is owned and operated by Discovery Networks Asia, a division of Discovery Communications. Discovery Channel SE Asia now divided into two channel feeds.

[[National Geographic Channel (Asia)]]

CATEGORIES: Television channels, News Corporation, 1994 establishments in Asia, Disney companies

The National Geographic Channel, also known as Nat Geo, is an Asian subscription television channel, that has non-fiction, factual programming involving nature, science, culture, and history programmed, made by the National Geographic Society, just like History and the Discovery Channel.

It was launched in 1 January 1994 in partnership and distribution with Star TV, a Hong Kong-based pan-Asian satellite network owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, replacing the NBC Asia channel. 2008, the Asian version of National Geographic Channel is available in over 56 million homes. NGC Asia has eight different channels feeds.

[[Gifted education]]

CATEGORIES: Giftedness

Gifted education is a term for special ways to educate (teach) children who have been identified as gifted. There is no definition of a gifted student which everyone agrees on.

Gifted and talented education has a long history of thousands of years. Plato (c. 427–c. 347 BCE) was in favour of providing specialized education for intellectually gifted young men and women. In China's Tang Dynasty (580-618 CE), child prodigies were summoned to the imperial court for specialized education. Throughout the Renaissance, those who showed creative talent in art, architecture, and literature were supported by both the government and private patronage.

In 2011, the National Association for Gifted Children published a position paper that stated what a gifted student is. The word "gifted," describes people who demonstrate outstanding aptitude or competence in one or more domains. An "aptitude" is defined as an exceptional ability to learn or reason. "Competence" is defined as documented performance or achievement in the top 10 percent of the population.

[[Sport England]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in England

Sport England is the name for the English Sports Council.  It is a non-departmental public body under the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. It works with national governing bodies of sport to grow the number of people in sports. Their goal is to keep these people in the sports. Sport England also helps more talented people do well by identifying them early, nurturing them, and helping them move up to the top level.

Sport England has two statutory, functions: (1) a lottery distributor for sport; and (2) it must be consulted on planning applications that affect playing fields. The funding it distributes comes from both H.M. Treasury and the National Lottery. Since 1994, it has invested over £2bn of lottery funds and £300 million from the Exchequer into sports in England.

[[Manic Street Preachers]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, Musical groups established in 1986, Welsh rock bands, 20th century establishments in Wales

Manic Street Preachers (often referred to as the Manics) are an alternative rock band from Blackwood, Wales, formed in 1986. They are James Dean Bradfield (vocals, guitars), Nicky Wire (bass, occasional vocals) and Sean Moore (drums, backing vocals, occasional trumpet). The band is part of the Cardiff music scene. Their biggest success was during the 1990s.

The band were originally a four piece band: lyricist and rhythm guitarist Richey Edwards mysteriously vanished on 1 February 1995. In November 2008, 13 years after his disappearance, he was officially declared presumed dead.

The Manics released their debut album Generation Terrorists in 1992. Their combination of androgynous glam punk imagery, outspoken

invective and songs about "culture, alienation, boredom and despair" soon gained them a loyal following and cult status. The band's later albums kept a politicized and smart lyrical style. They also adopted a broader alternative rock sound. Enigmatic lyricist Richey Edwards gained early notoriety by carving the words "4 REAL" into his arm with a razor blade (narrowly missing an artery and requiring seventeen stitches) in response to the suggestion that the band were less than authentic. The dark nature of 1994's The Holy Bible showed the result of Edwards' instability.

Following Edwards' disappearance, Bradfield, Moore, and Wire kept with the Manic Street Preachers and went on to gain critical and commercial success. They became one of Britain's top rock bands. They have had eight top ten albums and fifteen top ten singles. They have reached number one three times, with their 1998 album This Is My Truth Tell Me Yours and the singles "If You Tolerate This Your Children Will Be Next" (1998) and "The Masses Against The Classes" (2000). They have also won the Best British Album and Best British Group accolades at the BRIT Awards in 1997 and 1999, and were lauded by the NME for their lifetime achievements in 2008. Their ninth studio album, Journal For Plague Lovers, was released on 18 May 2009 and features lyrics Edwards had left behind to the band weeks before his disappearance.

In 2010 their tenth album Postcards from a Young Man was released. Their eleventh album Rewind the Film was released on 16 September 2013. Their next album Futurology is going to be released in 2014.

[[Turnstile]]

CATEGORIES: Gates

A turnstile, also called a baffle gate, is a type of gate. It only allows one person to pass at a time.  It can also be made so as to make one-way traffic of people. It can also make passage only to people who put in a coin, a ticket, a pass, or similar. A turnstile can be used for paid access (sometimes called a faregate when used for this). For example, it can be used in public transport as a ticket barrier or at a pay toilet. 

Turnstiles are used at a variety of places. This includes stadiums, amusement parks, museums, and mass transit stations.

[[Toroid (geometry)]]

CATEGORIES: Shapes

A toroid is a geometric shape that resembles a torus. A toroid is constructed by rotating a geometrical shape around an axis which is outside the shape. If this is done to a circle, a torus results.

[[Ashburys railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, 1855 establishments in Europe, 1850s establishments in England

Ashburys railway station in Openshaw serves Beswick and West Gorton in Manchester, England. It is located on the Manchester-Glossop Line at its junction with the branch line to Romiley and New Mills Central and the freight-only line to Phillips Park Junction (on the Huddersfield Line).

[[Regional casino]]

CATEGORIES: Gambling

A Regional Casino, more commonly known as a Super Casino (or occasionally known as Mega Casino), is the term given to the largest category of casino that was to have been permitted under UK law. It is meant to be the same size as the larger casinos in Las Vegas. The first Regional Casino was proposed to be in the City of Manchester. This was stopped by the UK government soon after Gordon Brown became Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.

[[Royal Institute of British Architects]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in the United Kingdom

The Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) is a professional organisation for architects in the United Kingdom.

It was originally named the Institute of British Architects in London and formed in 1834. The group was started by several important architects, including Philip Hardwick, Thomas Allom, William Donthorne, Thomas Leverton Donaldson, John Buonarotti Papworth and Thomas de Grey, 2nd Earl de Grey. It was awarded a Royal Charter in 1837, becoming the Royal Institute of British Architects in London, eventually dropping the reference to London in 1892.

The RIBA is a member organisation, with 44,000 members. Chartered Members are allowed to call themselves chartered architects and to add the post-nominals RIBA after their name; Student Members are not permitted to do so. In the past, fellowships of the institute were given, but this has stopped; those who continue to hold this title instead add FRIBA.

RIBA is based at 66 Portland Place, London—a 1930s Grade II* listed building designed by architect George Grey Wornum with sculptures by Edward Bainbridge Copnall and James Woodford. The Institute also maintains a dozen regional offices around the United Kingdom. Parts of the London building are open to the public, including the exhibition galleries and Library. It has a large architectural bookshop, a café, restaurant and lecture theatres. Rooms are hired out for events.

