[[Vicente López y Portaña]]

CATEGORIES: 1772 births, 1850 deaths, Spanish painters, People from Valencia

Vicente López y Portaña (September 19, 1772, Valencia, Spain – July 22, 1850, Madrid, Spain) was a Spanish painter. He was one of the most well known portrait painters of his time. He became the court painter to Queen Isabella II. His most famous painting is a portrait of the artist Goya.

[[Théophile Gautier]]

CATEGORIES: 1811 births, 1872 deaths, French poets, French journalists, French playwrights, French novelists, French literary critics, Librettists, Burials at Montmartre Cemetery, Paris

Pierre Jules Théophile Gautier (August 30, 1811 – October 23, 1872) was a French poet, dramatist, novelist, journalist, and literary critic. He was a member of the Club des Hashischins, or Hashish Club. This group of French writers experimented with hashish to get ideas.

Gautier wrote the 1841 ballet story for Giselle with Jules-Henri Vernoy de Saint-Georges.

[[Anton Raphael Mengs]]

CATEGORIES: German painters, 1728 births, 1779 deaths

Anton Raphael Mengs (March 12, 1728 – June 29, 1779) was a German painter. He worked in Rome, Madrid, and Saxony. Mengs painted many portraits, including members of the Spanish Royal family.

[[El Escorial]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Spain, Palaces in Spain, Museums in Spain, Schools, Community of Madrid

El Escorial is a famous royal site in Spain. It was built in the late 1500s. El Escorial is a monastery, a royal palace, a museum and a school. It is located about 45 northwest of the Spanish capital, Madrid, in the town of San Lorenzo de El Escorial. Five miles from the main building is a hunting lodge called Granjilla de La Fresneda, which is also part of the Escorial.

[[List of governors of Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Alaska

The Governor of Alaska is the leader of Alaska's government and the state's military. The governor has the right to make state laws, and the power to either approve or veto bills passed by the Alaska Legislature, to meet the legislature, and grant pardons, not for impeachment.

The current Governor of Alaska is Mike Dunleavy.

[[City council]]

CATEGORIES: Local government

A city council is a form of local government, usually covering a city or other urban area, such as a town.

[[Fallout 3]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Role-playing video games, Windows games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Fallout series

Fallout 3 is an action/role-playing game computer game. It was created by Bethesda Game Studios. The game is the third in the Fallout series of games. It is set in a world where nuclear bombs have ruined the surface and people are fighting to survive. Fallout 3 was released on October 28, 2008 in North America, October 30, 2008 in Australia, and October 31, 2008 in the United Kingdom.

[[Chuck Baldwin]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 United States presidential candidates, Politicians from Florida, 1952 births, Living people

Charles O. "Chuck" Baldwin  (born May 3, 1952) is a founder-pastor of Crossroad Baptist Church in Pensacola, Florida, and 2008 presidential nominee of the Constitution Party. He was also the Constitution Party nominee for Vice President in 2004.

[[Darrell Castle]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential candidates, United States vice-presidential candidates, 2008, American lawyers, Politicians from Memphis, Tennessee, American activists, 1948 births, Living people

Darrell Castle (born October 11, 1948) is an American politician, activist and lawyer from Memphis, Tennessee, and the 2008 vice-presidential candidate of the Constitution Party. He was the party's presidential nominee for the 2016 presidential election.

[[United States Electoral College]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United States, Government of the United States, Elections in the United States

The United States Electoral College is a name used to describe the official 538 Presidential electors who come together every four years during the presidential election to give their official votes for President and Vice President of the United States.  

The number of electors each state has is determined by the number of representatives a state has, plus its two senators. No state can have fewer than three electors.  There are 435 representatives in total and 100 senators.  The 23rd Amendment to the Constitution awarded Washington, D.C. three electors.  Combined, there is a total of 538 electors.

Electors usually vote for the winner of the popular vote in their state.  In some states, they vote depending on the popular vote in each congressional district.  The Constitution leaves states to decide how electors will vote.  Faithless electors are electors that vote against the popular vote, although there is a fine for this in some states.

The Electoral College was created as the Founding Fathers were afraid the popular vote would be easily swayed.  Because congressional representatives is determined by population, electors are assigned based on representatives.  More populous states have more electors.  Because most states have a winner-take-all system, where the winner of the popular vote in a state gains all of the electors, several presidents have lost the popular vote and won the electoral vote.  A candidate needs to win a majority of electors, or 270, to become the president-elect.

The Electoral College plays a very important role in today's elections. It is the subject of controversy as some people approve of the system, but for various reasons, some don't. The people who approve of the system often argue and say that it give smaller states more power, and that this a good thing, because if it were done by population, someone could win a majority of the votes in certain states but not win the majority of states. The Electoral College favors those who win more states, big and small. Even though it can be won with 11 states, often certain states stay Democratic or Republican ensuring it likely won't happen this way. Those are who against it bring up the latter argument that it can be won with 11 states and that often the candidate who wins does not win the popular vote. Third parties can change the outcome of an election, and it is often debated whether they play a role.

[[Gard]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Gard is a French department in southern France in the Occitanie region and named after the Gardon river. Its prefecture is Nîmes.

[[Haute-Garonne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Haute-Garonne ("Upper Garonne"; Nauta Garona) is a department in the southwest of France named after the Garonne river. Its main city and prefecture of the department is Toulouse.

[[Gers]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Gers (Gascon: Gers) is a department in the Occitanie region in the southwest of France named after the Gers river.

[[Gironde]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Gironde (Gironda) is a department in the southwest of France. It is named after the Gironde estuary.

The department is in the region of Nouvelle-Aquitaine. Its prefecture is Bordeaux.

[[Hérault]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Hérault (Erau) is a department in the region of Occitanie in southern France. It is named after the Hérault river.

The inhabitants of Hérault are known, in French, as Héraultais (women: Héraultaises).

[[Ille-et-Vilaine]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Brittany

Ille-et-Vilaine is a department found in the west of France in the Brittany region. Its prefecture is Rennes and its population is about 908,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Indre-et-Loire]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Centre-Val de Loire

Indre-et-Loire is a department in west-central France named after the Indre and the Loire rivers.

Its prefecture is the city of Tours.

[[Isère]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Isère is a département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in eastern France named after the Isère river.

[[Landes]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Landes (Gascon: Lanas) is a department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region of France. Landes is the plural of the French word lande (in English:heathland); it was named so because it was the most common habitat in the region.

It is well known for the Côte d'Argent beach that attracts many surfers to Mimizan and Hossegor each year.

[[Loir-et-Cher]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Centre-Val de Loire

Loir-et-Cher is a department in the centre of France in the Centre-Val de Loire region. It is named after the Loir and the Cher, two rivers that flow through the department.

Its prefecture is Blois and there are two subprefectures at Romorantin-Lanthenay and Vendôme.

[[Loire]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Loire (Léger) is a French department in the east-central part of France in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region and named after the Loire river. Its prefecture is the city of Saint-Étienne.

[[Haute-Loire]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Haute-Loire (Naut Léger) is a département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region of south-central France. It is named after the Loire river.

[[Loiret]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Centre-Val de Loire

Loiret is a department in north-central France in the Centre-Val de Loire region. It is named after the Loiret river, a tributary of Loire that is completely within the department.

Its prefecture is Orléans and there are two subprefectures: Montargis and Pithiviers.

[[Lot (department)]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Lot (Òlt) is a French department in the Occitanie region of southern France named after the Lot river. Its prefecture and largest city is Cahors.

[[Lot-et-Garonne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Lot-et-Garonne (Òlt e Garona) is a department in the southwest of France named after the Lot and Garonne rivers.

[[Lozère]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Lozère (Losera) is a department in the region of Occitanie in southern France near the Massif Central. It is named after Mont Lozère.

[[Maine-et-Loire]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Pays de la Loire

Maine-et-Loire is a department found in the west of France in the Pays de la Loire region. Its prefecture is Angers and its population is about 810,000 (2015 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Manche]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Normandy

Manche is a department found in the west of France in the Normandy region. Its prefecture is Saint-Lô. Its population is about 486,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Marne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Grand Est

Marne is a department in northeastern France named after the river Marne which flows through the department.  The prefecture (capital) of Marne is Châlons-en-Champagne (formerly known as Châlons-sur-Marne).

The Champagne vineyards producing the world-famous sparkling wine are located within Marne.

[[Haute-Marne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Grand Est

Haute-Marne is a department in the northeast of France named after the Marner river. It is in the Grand Est region and its prefecture (capital) is the city of Chaumont.

Charles de Gaulle lived until his death in Colombey-les-Deux-Églises.

[[Meurthe-et-Moselle]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Grand Est

Meurthe-et-Moselle is a department in the Grand Est region of France, named after the Meurthe and Moselle rivers. The prefecture (capital) of Meurthe-et-Moselle is Nancy.

[[Meuse (department)]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Grand Est

Meuse is a department found in the east of France in the Grand Est region. Its prefecture is Bar-le-Duc. Its population is about 193,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Morbihan]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Brittany

Morbihan (mɔʁbi.ɑ̃; Mor-Bihan, morˈbiˑãn) is a department found in the west of France in the Brittany region. Its prefecture is Vannes and its population is about 677,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

Morbihan has also two subprefectures: Lorient and Pontivy.

[[Nièvre]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Nièvre is a department in the centre of France, in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. It is named after the Nièvre river, a tributary of the Loire. Its prefecture and largest city is Nevers.

[[Nord (French department)]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Hauts-de-France

Nord is a department in the north of France, in the Hauts-de-France region. Its name is because the department is in the north of France. Its prefecture is Lille.

[[Oise]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Hauts-de-France

Oise is a department found in the north of France in the Hauts-de-France region. Its prefecture is Beauvais. Its population is about 780,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Pas-de-Calais]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Hauts-de-France

Pas-de-Calais (Picard: Pas-Calés; Dutch: Nauw van Kales) is a department found in the north of France in the Hauts-de-France region. Its prefecture is Arras. Its population is about 1,456,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Puy-de-Dôme]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Puy-de-Dôme is a French department in the centre of France in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region and named after the dormant volcano the Puy de Dôme. Its prefecture is the city of Clermont-Ferrand.

[[Pyrénées-Atlantiques]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Pyrénées-Atlantiques (Gascon: Pirenèus-Atlantics; Pirinio-Atlantiarrak or Pirinio-Atlantikoak) is a department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region of France. It takes its name from the Pyrenees mountains and the Atlantic Ocean.

[[Hautes-Pyrénées]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Hautes-Pyrénées (Nauts Pirenèus / Hauts Pirenèus) is a department in the southwest of France. It is part of the Occitanie region and its main city is Tarbes.

[[Pyrénées-Orientales]]

CATEGORIES: Pyrénées-Orientales

Pyrénées-Orientales (English: Eastern Pyrenees; Pirineus Orientals; Pirenèus Orientals) is a department in the region of Occitanie in southern France; it is next to the northern Spanish border and the Mediterranean Sea.

The department is formed by the historically Catalan-speaking area of Rosillon (with its different parts: Roussillon (modern), Haute Cerdagne (or simply Cerdagne), Conflent, Vallespir and Capcir) and Fenouillèdes, an historically Occitan-speaking area.

[[Bas-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Grand Est

Bas-Rhin (French pronunciation: bɑ.ʁɛ̃; Alsatian: Unterelsàss, ‘s Unterlànd or ‘s Ingerlànd; traditional German: Niederrhein; English: Lower Rhine) is a department in the Grand Est region of France, named after the Rhine river that flows along its eastern border. The prefecture (capital) of Bas-Rhin is Strasbourg.

Bas-Rhin means "Lower Rhine", however, geographically speaking it belongs to the Upper Rhine region. This is the last French department to have kept the term Bas, meaning "Lower", in its name. Other departments using this word preferred to change their names.

[[Haut-Rhin]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Grand Est, 1790 establishments, 1790s establishments in France

Haut-Rhin is a department in the Grand Est region of France, named after the Rhine river that flows along its eastern border. Its name means Upper Rhine. The prefecture (capital) of Haut-Rhin is Colmar.

[[Rhône (department)]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Rhône is a department in the center of France in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. Its prefecture is Lyon and about 1,646,000 people live there (2006 estimation). 

[[Haute-Saône]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Haute-Saône is a department in the east of France. It is in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. It is named after the Saône river and its capital (prefecture) is the city of Vesoul.

[[Saône-et-Loire]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Saône-et-Loire is a department in the centre of France. It is in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. It is named after the two main rivers in the department: the Saône and the Loire rivers.

The largest city in the department is Chalon-sur-Saône. The prefecture (capital) is the smaller city of Mâcon.

[[Sarthe]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Pays de la Loire

Sarthe is a department found in the west of France in the Pays de la Loire region. Its prefecture is Le Mans and its population is about 543,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Savoie]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Savoie is a département in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region of southeastern France, bordering  Italy.

[[Seine-Maritime]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Normandy

Seine-Maritime is a department found in the northwest of France in the Normandy region. Its prefecture is Rouen. Its population is about 1,245,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Seine-et-Marne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Île-de-France

Seine-et-Marne is a department found in the center of France in the Île-de-France region. Its prefecture is Melun and its population is about 1,260,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Yvelines]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Île-de-France

Yvelines is a department in the Île-de-France region. Its prefecture is Versailles. About 1,395,000 people live there (2006 estimation). 

[[Deux-Sèvres]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Deux-Sèvres is a department in western France, in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region.

Deux-Sèvres means literally "Two Sèvres": the Sèvre Nantaise and the Sèvre Niortaise; these are two rivers which flow through the department.

[[Somme]]

CATEGORIES: Somme

Somme is a department found in the north of France in the Hauts-de-France region. Its prefecture is Amiens. Its population is about 559,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Tarn]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Tarn (Tarn) is a French department in the Occitanie region in the southwest of France named after the Tarn river.

Its prefecture and largest city is Albi.

[[Tarn-et-Garonne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Tarn-et-Garonne is a department in the southwest of France, in the Occitanie region. It is named after the Garonne river and its tributary Tarn. Its prefecture and largest city is Montauban.

[[Var (department)]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

The Var is a department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in Provence in southeastern France. It takes its name from the river Var, which used to flow along its eastern border, but the border was moved in 1860.

Its prefecture is the city of Toulon.

[[Vendée]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Pays de la Loire

Vendée is a department found in the west of France in the Pays de la Loire region. Its prefecture is La Roche-sur-Yon and its population is about 577,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Vienne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Vienne is a department in southwestern France in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. It is named after the Vienne river, the most important river in the department.

[[Haute-Vienne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Nouvelle-Aquitaine

Haute-Vienne (Nauta-Viena or Nauta-Vinhana) is a department of France in the region of Nouvelle-Aquitaine. It is named after the Vienne river that flows through the department.

[[Vosges]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Grand Est

Vosges is a department found in the east of France in the Grand Est region. Its prefecture is Épinal. Its population is about 382,000 (2006 estimation). It is one of the 83 first French departments made during the French revolution.

[[Yonne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Yonne is a department in the centre of France, in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. The largest city in the department, and its prefecture (capital), is Auxerre.

The department is named after the Yonne river, a tributary of the Seine, that flows through the department. The Celts name of the river was Ica-onna (Icauna) and from this name come the name of the river and of the people living in the department: Icaunais.

[[Zwentendorf power plant]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear power plants in Europe, Buildings and structures in Austria, Lower Austria

The Zwentendorf power plant is a nuclear power plant in Zwentendorf an der Donau in Austria. It has never been used.  This is because the people of Austria voted against using it in 1978. 

Today, the plant is used to get replacement parts to other plants of the same type (mainly in Germany), and for staff training. It is not possible to visit the power plant. Because the nuclear power plant was never in use, a coal power plant was built in 1987 to replace it.

The plant is now owned by Austrian energy company and used as a Solar Power Plant. 

[[Territoire de Belfort]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Territoire de Belfort is a department in eastern France, in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. The largest city in the department, and its prefecture (capital), is Belfort.

[[Essonne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Île-de-France

Essonne is a department to the south of Paris in the Île-de-France region. Its prefecture is Évry. About 1,172,000 people live there (2006 estimation). 

[[Hauts-de-Seine]]

CATEGORIES: Hauts-de-Seine

Hauts-de-Seine is a department which is the western inner suburbs of Paris in the Île-de-France region. Its prefecture is Nanterre and its population is about 1,517,000 (2006 estimation). 

[[Seine-Saint-Denis]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Île-de-France

Seine-Saint-Denis is a department. It is in the center of France in the Île-de-France region. Its prefecture is Bobigny. About 1,459,000 people live there (2006 estimation). 

[[Val-de-Marne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Île-de-France

Val-de-Marne is a department in the center of France in the Île-de-France region. Its prefecture is Créteil. About 1,279,000 people live there (2006 estimation). 

[[Val-d'Oise]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Île-de-France

Val-d'Oise is a department to the north of Paris in the Île-de-France region. Its prefecture is Cergy. About 1,139,000 people live there (2006 estimation).

[[Quimper]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Finistère, Departmental capitals in France

Quimper (Kemper) is a town in France. It is the prefecture of the Finistère department in the Brittany region. Its population is around 65,000 (2006). 

[[Georges Cuvier]]

CATEGORIES: 1769 births, 1832 deaths, Paleontologists, French scientists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, Members of the Académie française

Baron Georges Léopold Chrétien Frédéric Dagobert Cuvier (23 August 1769–13 May 1832), usually called Cuvier, was a French naturalist and zoologist.

Cuvier was a very important figure in scientific circles in Paris during the early 19th century. He helped establish the fields of comparative anatomy and paleontology by comparing living animals with fossils. He proved extinction was a fact. He was the most influential person believing in  catastrophism in geology in the early 19th century. His most famous work is the Règne animal distribué d'après son organisation 1817; translated into English as The Animal Kingdom.

Cuvier was a member of the elite Académie française and the French Academy of Sciences. He is remembered for strongly opposing the evolutionary theories of Lamarck and Geoffroy. Cuvier believed there was no evidence for the evolution of organic forms, but there was evidence for successive creations after catastrophic extinction events.

Some of Cuvier's most influential followers were Louis Agassiz, and Richard Owen. His is one of the 72 names inscribed on the Eiffel Tower.

He was the elder brother of Frédéric Cuvier (1773–1838), also a naturalist. Cuvier died in Paris, of cholera.

[[George W. Campbell]]

CATEGORIES: 1769 births, 1848 deaths, United States Secretaries of the Treasury

George Washington Campbell (February 9, 1769–February 17, 1848) was an American statesman. He was elected to the United States House of Representatives as the Representative from Tennessee's at-large congressional district in 1803. He served in the House from 1805-1809, in the 8th, 9th, and 10th Congresses. During the 10th Congress, he was the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. He was also one of the managers appointed in 1804 to conduct the impeachment hearings for John Pickering, judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Hampshire, and later in the same year, the impeachment hearings against Samuel Chase, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.

[[Samuel Chase]]

CATEGORIES: 1741 births, 1811 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, United States Supreme Court justices

Samuel Chase (April 17, 1741 – June 19, 1811), was an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court and earlier was a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence as a representative of Maryland.

[[Chloroform]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Organic compounds, Chlorine compounds

Chloroform (also called trichloromethane) is a chemical substance. It is an organic compound. Chloroform is one of the intermediate substances that occur in the production of Polytetrafluoroethylene, better known as Teflon. Chloroform is used as a solvent. In the 19th century, it was a widely used anaesthetic.

[[Santa Cruz, Bolivia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bolivia

Santa Cruz de La Sierra, also known as Santa Cruz, is the largest city in Bolivia, capital city of the Santa Cruz department (in the eastern region of the country). The municipality's population was 1,528,683 inhabitants 2006, and the urban population 2008 was 1,545,161.

Santa Cruz is not only the most populated city in Bolivia, but the department is also the richest, with over 30% of the national GDP. The city is a major center of petrochemical production in Bolivia, especially because the production of natural gas that exports to neighboring countries. The main sectors that drive the economy are the oil, forestry and agrobusiness firms.

[[Arithmetic logic unit]]

CATEGORIES: Microprocessor design

In computing, an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) is a digital circuit that performs arithmetic and logical operations. The ALU is a basic building block of the central processing unit (CPU) of a computer,  even the simplest microcontrollers contain one for purposes such as timing. 

Now, modern microprocessors, microcontrollers and CPUs have very powerful and very complex ALUs. Also, more recent CPUs may contain up to more than 4 ALUs (see superscalar CPUs).

Mathematician John von Neumann proposed the ALU concept in 1945.

[[Floating point unit]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A floating point unit (FPU) is a part of a computer system specially designed to carry out operations on floating point numbers. Typical operations are addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and square root. 

Some systems can also perform more advanced functions as exponential or trigonometric functions calculations, however in most modern processors these functions are done with software library routines, not by hardware.

In most modern general purpose CPUs, one or more FPUs are integrated inside the CPU; however many embedded microcontrollers, especially older designs, do not have hardware support for floating point operations. 

In the past, some systems as the Intel 8086 have implemented floating point via a coprocessor that is controlled by the CPU rather than as an integrated unit.

Most modern computers have integrated FPU hardware; but not all. In the absence of an FPU, many FPU functions can be emulated, which saves the added hardware cost of an FPU but is significantly slower.

[[Eating disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

An eating disorder is when someone begins eating too much, or when someone begins to avoid eating. This affects one's mental and physical health. Anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa are two of the most well known eating disorders today. Eating disorders affect 5-7% of American women, and only a small percent of men are affected.

Eating disorders involve more than just food. Many people with eating disorders are very sad and feel alone. They get depressed and do not want to eat in front of other people. They might use food as a way to cope, or they might restrict their food intake as a means of control. They might eat a lot of food in a very short period of time. They might throw up their food because they feel guilty. They might eat very little because they want to lose weight, even if they are already dangerously underweight (weighing less than what it is considered healthy). Even if they are underweight, they might see themselves as very fat. Many people with eating disorders suffer physical complications, like malnutrition (not getting enough nutrients that the body needs to be healthy), or electrolyte imbalances (a change in the amount of elements such as sodium or potassium that causes problems in the body's ability to work properly). Eating disorders can cause death.

On 1 December 2013 the Daily Telegraph reported that the number of children under thirteen treated in hospital for eating disorders in the UK had tripled.

[[Derealization]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Derealization (DR) is a change in the way someone views the world so that it seems unreal. Derealization can also make someone feel as if their environment does not have emotion or depth. This is a symptom of other problems, such as sleeping disorders, schizophrenia, and other mental disorders. It can also be caused by drug intoxication.

Similar to derealization is depersonalization, but the two are different. Depersonalization is a sense of unreality about oneself. Derealization is a sense of unreality of the outside world.

Derealization often happens during a traumatic or tragic event.

[[Paresthesia]]

CATEGORIES: Neurology

Paresthesia (pron. /ˌpɛɹɪsˈθiʒə/; paraesthesia in British English, pron. /ˌpæɹɪsˈθiʒə/) is a feeling of tingling, prickling, or numbness with no permanent effects. It is commonly called "pins and needles". This feeling may last a short while, or may be more long-lasting. A long-term effect means there is something wrong with neurons in the body.

An example of this can be felt when sitting cross-legged for a long time and your foot "falls asleep". The tingling feeling you get when you move is paresthesia.

[[Perfectionism]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Perfectionism, in psychology, is a type of personality where there is a need for oneself or others to be the best in any given part of life. There are only two outcomes; anything less than perfect is taken to be unacceptable. The belief holds that one can achieve perfection and should aim for it. A person who believes this is called a perfectionist.

At first, some consider perfectionism as helpful. Perfectionism can lead people to achieve great things and give them motivation. However, it is considered to be a belief that is mostly unhealthy and harmful. Perfectionism makes people set goals that are unrealistic and cannot be reached. This leads to many problems like depression, anxiety, eating disorders and low self-esteem. Perfectionism may also lead to procrastination as it allows one to avoid being less than perfect ("I can't do this project until I can do it the right way."). This can mean low productivity. 

Perfectionistic behaviour is growing in the newer generation. Perfectionism has received more attention by popular sayings like “practice makes perfect”. There are also more and more people who see themselves as a perfectionist. These people also mentioned their difficulties which comes with this behaviour.

[[Garonne river]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Rivers of Spain, Catalonia, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, Occitanie

The Garonne is a river that runs through northern Spain and the southwest France. Its mouth is at the Atlantic Ocean. It is 575 long.

[[Physical abuse]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Physical abuse is a form of abuse which causes feelings of pain, injury, or other physical suffering. Physical abuse may lead to low self-esteem and other mental problems.

[[Sexual abuse]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Sexual abuse

Sexual abuse (also called sexual molestation) is when one person forces another person to unwillingly commit any sexual act, harassment or any sexual assault. A person who commits sexual abuse is called a molester, abuser, or sexual abuser. When a victim of sexual abuse is under the age of consent, it is known as child sexual abuse. 

Sexual abuse can lead to many psychological problems, including low self-esteem, clinical depression, and other mental disorders, especially if the victim is a child and/or the abuse is severe. 

Some groups of people are more likely to be sexually abused than others. It is common knowledge that girls and women are sexually abused more often than boys and men, and that abusers are usually men. Disabled people, especially disabled girls, are much more likely than non-disabled people to be sexually abused. They are often abused by authority figures in their lives, such as carers. Disabled people are more vulnerable to sexual assault for a number of reasons. People of different races have different rates of being sexually abused. African American girls and women 12 years old and older experience higher rates of sexual abuse.

[[Saka]]

CATEGORIES: Punjab, India, History of Pakistan

The Sakas were a population of Iranic nomadic tribesmen lived in the plains of Eurasia from Eastern Europe to China, from the Old Persian Period to the Middle Persian Period. Then Turkic language speakers took their place.May 2021

The ancient Greeks called the Sakas the Scythians.May 2021

Sakas came across the river Indus and overan Sind and Saurashtra (near Gujrat) .They finally settled down in Kathiawar and malwa. They were often in war with the Satavahanas. Rudradaman, one of their best known king was the one who stopped the expansion of Sata ahana power to the north of river Narmada. The Sakas themselves could not expand to the north as they would have liked to, because Kushanas held them back.

[[Hill Auditorium]]

CATEGORIES: University of Michigan campus, 1913 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Michigan, 2002 disestablishments in the United States, Disestablishments in Michigan, 2004 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Michigan

Hill Auditorium is the largest performance place on the University of Michigan campus in Ann Arbor in the United States. The auditorium was named after Arthur Hill (1847-1909), who was a regent of the university from 1901 to 1909. He gave 200,000 dollars to the university to build it. Opened in 1913, the auditorium was designed by Albert Kahn and Associates. It was recently fixed up by the same firm beginning in 2002 and was re-opened in 2004.

[[Goulburn, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New South Wales

Goulburn is a city in the Southern Tablelands of New South Wales, Australia. It is 190 km south-west of Sydney on the Hume Highway. It is 690 metres above sea-level. In 2006 there were 20,127 people living in Goulburn. Goulburn calls itself as "Australia's first inland city". The city of Bathurst also claims to be the first inland city in Australia. 

Goulburn was named by James Meehan after Henry Goulburn, a British politician. The Governor Lachlan Macquarie approved the choice of name. The Aboriginal name for Goulburn is Burbong. This is a Murring/Wiradjuri word meaning a special place.

Goulburn has a railway station on the Main Southern railway line. It is a service centre for the many farms in the area. It also provides a rest stop for those travelling on the Hume Highway. It has a central park and many historic buildings, including old houses near the railway station on Sloane Street. It also has two 19th-century cathedrals. It is home to the Big Merino, the world's largest cement sheep.

[[Women's suffrage]]

CATEGORIES: Feminism, Women's suffrage

Women's suffrage is the right of women to vote and to be elected to an office. The right has generally been given after long political campaigns. In many countries, it was recognised before universal suffrage. Before the late 19th century, a very few countries allowed women to vote in political elections.

The modern movement for women to gain the right to vote started in France in the late-18th century. The French Republic had been founded after a revolution, and political scientist Antoine Condorcet and activist Olympe de Gouges campaigned for women to be allowed to vote in the national election.

In early cases of women's suffrage, only those women who met certain requirements were given the right to vote in certain kinds of elections. In Sweden, there was conditional women's suffrage during the Age of Liberty (1718–1771). Unmarried women who owned property could vote in New Jersey from 1776 to 1807. In the 1792 election in Sierra Leone, all heads of household—one-third of whom were women—could vote.

Several British colonies recognised women's suffrage before most countries. The female descendants of the Bounty mutineers who lived on Pitcairn Islands could vote from 1838. This right was kept when they were resettled on Norfolk Island in 1856. Women in South Australia allowed to vote in local elections from 1861, and those on the Isle of Man could vote in parliamentary elections from 1881. In 1893, New Zealand became the first independent country to give all adult women the right to vote in national elections. The women in South Australia got the same right in 1894, and became the first to get the right to stand (run) for seats in parliament.

Many countries did the same soon after, following similar battles. Limited voting rights were also gained by women in several Western countries in the late 19th century, including Sweden, Finland and the United Kingdom. Russian Empire was the first European country to introduce women's suffrage, in 1906. It also elected the world's first female members of parliament in its 1907 elections. At that time it was a part of the Russian Empire. In the years before World War I, women in Norway (1913) and Denmark (1915) also won the right to vote, as did women in the other Australian states. In most other Western countries, women's suffrage came at the end of World War I.

Ceylon, now called Sri Lanka, recognised the right in 1931. It elected the world's first female head of government, Sirimavo Bandaranaike, in the country's 1960 elections. Women's suffrage was explicitly recognised as a right by the United Nations in 1979.

[[Grenfell, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Grenfell is a country town in the central west of New South Wales, Australia. It is in the Weddin Shire. It is 370 west of Sydney. It is close to Forbes, Cowra and Young.  In 2006 there were 1,994 people living in Grenfell.

[[Mike Vernon]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Calgary Flames players, Calgary Wranglers players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Detroit Red Wings players, Florida Panthers players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Living people, Portland Winterhawks players, San Jose Sharks players, Sportspeople from Calgary, Stanley Cup champions

Michael "Mike" Vernon (born 24 February 1963 in Calgary, Alberta, Canada) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. For 21-years he played in the National Hockey League, he played as a goaltender for the Calgary Flames, Detroit Red Wings, San Jose Sharks and the Florida Panthers. He won the Stanley Cup twice as a member of the Flames in 1989 and then again in 1997 with the Red Wings, where he also won the Conn Smythe Trophy as playoff MVP. In 2002 he retired and he currently works as a Special Assistant to the Vice President of Hockey Operations for the Tampa Bay Lightning.

[[1997 United Kingdom general election]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 in the United Kingdom, 1997 elections, United Kingdom general elections

The UK general election, 1997 was an election held on 1 May 1997 to elect 659 members to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. The three main candidates to become Prime Minister are shown to the right: 

The Labour Party and its leader Tony Blair gained the majority of seats and created the first Labour government since 1979. The Labour Party won 418 seats which was the highest majority of seats for any party since the Conservatives in the 1931 General Election. The Conservative Party suffered it's lowest number of seats since 1906 and lost all of its seats in Scotland and Wales. Several prominent Conservative politicians lost their seats such as Defence Secretary Michael Portillo, Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind, Scottish Secretary Michael Forsyth as well as Edwina Currie, David Mellor and Ian Lang. 

The Liberal Democrats won 46 seats, which was the highest number of seats for a third party since 1929. The Referendum Party ran on the single issue of taking Britain out of the European Union and won 2.6% of the vote but no seats.

The final results of the election were:

[[Metropolitan France]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of France

Metropolitan France (France métropolitaine or la Métropole) is the part of France that is in Europe. It can also be described as mainland France plus the island of Corsica. By contrast, Overseas France (France d'outre-mer) is the collective name for all of the French overseas departments, territories and collectivities and New Caledonia. Metropolitan France and Overseas France together form the French Republic.

Metropolitan France covers an area of 551,695 km² (213,011 sq. miles). Excluding the territory of Adélie Land in Antarctica, this is 81.8% of the nation's territory. As of January 1, 2011, 63,136,180 people lived in metropolitan France. This is 95.9% of the nation's population.

The five overseas departments – Martinique, Guadeloupe, Réunion, French Guiana, and Mayotte – have the same political status as the departments in metropolitan France. Metropolitan France and these five overseas departments together are sometimes called France entière ("entire France") by the French administration, especially by INSEE. This grouping does not include the French overseas collectivities and territories, which have more autonomy than the overseas departments.

[[Overseas France]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of France

Overseas France (France d'outre-mer) is the part of France that is outside of the European continent. It consists of all overseas departments, territories and collectivities. These territories have several different legal statuses and levels of autonomy. Overseas France includes island territories in the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian oceans, French Guiana in South America, and Adélie Land in Antarctica. Each inhabited territory is represented in both the French National Assembly and the French Senate (which together make up the Parliament of France).

2,685,705 people lived in the overseas departments and territories in January 2011.

[[Justin Raimondo]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians from California, Politicians from New York, Writers from New York, Writers from San Francisco, Anarcho-capitalists, LGBT people from New York, LGBT people from California, Gay men, LGBT writers, LGBT politicians, 1951 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in California, American bloggers

Justin Raimondo (born Dennis Raimondo; November 18, 1951 – June 27, 2019) was an American writer and the editorial director of the website Antiwar.com. He was born in White Plains, New York.

Raimondo died on June 27, 2019 in Sebastopol, California from lung cancer at the age of 67.

[[Group (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Algebra

In mathematics, a group is a kind of algebraic structure. A group is a set with an operation. The group's operation shows how to replace any two elements of the group's set with a third element from the set in a useful way. A familiar example of a group is the set of integers with the addition operation.

Instead of "an element of the group's set", mathematicians usually save words by saying "an element of the group".

Mathematicians use capital letters to stand for groups.  They often use G, H, or K.

They also use lower-case letters to stand for group elements. For example, they would say "a is in G" to mean "a is an element of G".

They write group operations with symbols like • or *, or by writing two elements next to each other.  So "a • b", "a * b", and "ab" can all mean "the element formed when the group's operation combines a and b".

[[Chelsea Clinton]]

CATEGORIES: Bill Clinton, Children of Presidents of the United States, People from Little Rock, Arkansas, 1980 births, Living people, Hillary Rodham Clinton

Chelsea Victoria Clinton (born February 27, 1980) is the only child of Bill Clinton, former President of the United States, and his wife, former Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton.

[[Crich]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Derbyshire

Crich (ˈkraɪtʃ kryech) En-crich.ogg is a village in the English county of Derbyshire. It is the home of the National Tramway Museum in the Crich Tramway Village.

[[Edwardian period]]

CATEGORIES: 1900s in the United Kingdom, 1910s in the United Kingdom

The Edwardian era in the United Kingdom is the period which included the reign of King Edward VII (1901–1910). The "Edwardian era" usually includes some years before and after his reign, up to the First World War.

[[Objectivity (philosophy)]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Reality

Objectivity is a philosophical opinion or method that believes that reality exists outside of the human mind. People can separate their own ideas and opinions from the observations they make. Objective observations are true no matter who makes the observation. Being objective helps people focus on things that everyone can agree on. 

The Scientific method claims objectivity but see epistemology, the philosophy of science and the work of Karl Popper.  The opposite of objectivity is subjectivity.

[[Rod Paige]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Education, Politicians from Mississippi

Roderick Raynor "Rod" Paige (born June 17, 1933), served as the 7th United States Secretary of Education from 2001 to 2005. He was the first African American to serve as the nation's education chief. He earned a bachelor's degree from Jackson State University in Mississippi and a Master's degree and an Ed.D from Indiana University Bloomington.  He also holds an honorary doctoral degree from the University of Houston presented to him in 2000.

Paige was sitting with George W. Bush at the Emma E. Booker Elementary School in Sarasota, Florida, when Bush received the news that a second plane had hit the World Trade Center in the September 11, 2001 attacks.

On November 15, 2004, Paige announced his resignation after overseeing the President's education agenda for four years. White House domestic policy adviser Margaret Spellings was nominated as his successor. The U.S. Senate confirmed her on January 20, 2005 after Bush's inauguration for a second term.

[[Joshua Bolten]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, White House Chiefs of Staff, Directors of the Office of Management and Budget, US Republican Party politicians

Joshua Brewster Bolten (born August 16, 1954) was the White House Chief of Staff serving U.S. President George W. Bush. Bolten replaced Andrew Card on April 14, 2006.

[[Alan Stephenson Boyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2020 deaths, Politicians from Jacksonville, Florida, United States Secretaries of Transportation, University of Florida alumni, US Democratic Party politicians, American lawyers, Businesspeople from Florida

Alan Stephenson Boyd (July 20, 1922 – October 18, 2020) was an American politician and lawyer. He was the first United States Secretary of Transportation, appointed by Lyndon Johnson in November 1966.

He was appointed to the Civil Aeronautics Board in 1959 by Dwight Eisenhower and promoted to chairman by John F. Kennedy.

When the Richard M. Nixon administration took power, Boyd left the government and became the president of the Illinois Central Railroad, a position he held from 1969 to 1972.

Boyd died at a retirement home in Seattle, Washington on October 18, 2020 at the age of 98.

[[Mary Peters (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of Transportation, Politicians from Phoenix, Arizona, 1948 births, Living people

Mary E. Peters (born December 4, 1948) was the United States Secretary of Transportation. She is the second woman and first Arizonan to hold the position. Peters joined the Arizona Department of Transportation in 1985, and was appointed by Gov. Jane Dee Hull to serve as its director in 1998. In 2006, President Bush appointed Peters as the Co-Vice Chairwoman of the National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission.

[[President-elect]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents (government)

A President-elect is a political candidate who has been elected president but who has not yet taken office.

[[Flag of Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Australia, National flags

The flag of Australia is a national flag. In 1901, Australia became a single country, instead of six separate colonies. A competition was held to design a new flag for the new country. The winning flag has a blue background, the Union Jack, and six stars. Five stars are in the shape of the constellation the Southern Cross, the other is the Commonwealth Star. The flag has been used from 1903, but did not become the official flag of Australia until 1953.

[[2000 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in the United States, 2000 elections, United States presidential elections

The 2000 United States presidential election happened on November 7, 2000. George W. Bush, the Republican candidate who was the Governor of Texas and the eldest son of the 41st president, George H. W. Bush, won the election. He defeated the Democratic candidate, Al Gore, who was the Vice President.

Incumbent Democratic President Bill Clinton was not eligible to serve a third term, and Vice President Gore was able to secure the Democratic nomination. Bush was seen as the early favorite for the Republican nomination, and despite a contentious primary battle with Senator John McCain and other candidates, secured the nomination by Super Tuesday. Many third-party candidates also ran, most prominently Ralph Nader. Bush chose former Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney as his running mate, and Gore chose Senator Joe Lieberman as his. Both candidates focused primarily on domestic issues, such as the budget, tax relief, and reforms for federal social insurance programs, though the foreign policy was not ignored. Clinton and Gore did not often campaign together, a deliberate decision resulting from the Lewinsky scandal two years prior.

Bush narrowly won the November 7 election, with 271 electoral votes to Gore's 266. There was a disagreement over who won Florida's 25 electoral votes because the way Florida voted was different from other states. A recount happened in the state and the uncommon event that the winner got fewer popular votes than the loser. The Court's decision in Bush v. Gore announced on December 12, 2000, this ended the recounts, effectively awarding Florida's votes to Bush and granting him the victory.

[[2004 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in the United States, 2004 elections, John Kerry, United States presidential elections

The 2004 United States presidential election happened on November 2, 2004. George W. Bush, the incumbent president and Republican candidate, won reelection. He defeated John Kerry, the Democratic candidate, who was the junior U.S. Senator from Massachusetts. Foreign policy was the biggest issue during the election mainly because of the War on Terrorism and the 2003 Invasion of Iraq.

Since the last presidential election, there were concerns about voting. The winner was not determined until the following day when Kerry decided not to dispute Bush's win in the state of Ohio. The state held enough electoral votes to determine the winner of the presidency. Both Kerry and Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean have stated their opinion that voting in Ohio did not proceed fairly and that, had it done so, the Democratic ticket might have won that state and therefore the election.

Only three states changed which party to vote for. New Mexico and Iowa voted Democratic in 2000, but those states voted Republican in 2004. New Hampshire voted Republican in 2000 but the state voted Democratic in 2004. In the Electoral College, Bush received 286 electoral votes, and Kerry received 251 electoral votes. Kerry was supposed to have 252, but one electoral vote that was supposed to go for Kerry went for his running mate, John Edwards.

[[Register renaming]]

CATEGORIES: Microprocessor design

In computer engineering, register renaming refers to a technique used to avoid unnecessary serialized execution of program instructions because of the reuse of the same registers by those instructions.

[[Chesterfield]]

CATEGORIES: Unitary authorities, Towns in Derbyshire, Market towns in England

Chesterfield is a market town and borough in the county of Derbyshire in the East Midlands of England. It is on the River Rother and the River Hipper. It is Derbyshire's largest town (Derby is a city).

It is a very old town and was founded between 70–100 AD. The town received its market charter from King John in 1204.

It is 24 miles (39 km) north of Derby and 11 miles (18 km) south of Sheffield.

The town is located on the A61 between Derby and Thirsk in North Yorkshire. It is 6 miles (9.7 km) from the M1.

A 2019 census estimated that the borough has around 104,900 residents.

Chesterfield's most famous landmark is Church of St Mary and All Saints. It is famous because of its "crooked spire". The town's football club, Chesterfield F.C., are nicknamed The Spireites due to this.

Chesterfield railway station is on the Midland Main Line. Passengers can get local trains to towns and villages around the East Midlands as well as long-distance trains, operated by East Midlands Railway, to London, Sheffield and Nottingham. CrossCountry trains also stop at Chesterfield, providing passengers with direct trains to Birmingham, the North East, Scotland and Cornwall.

[[Formation and evolution of the Solar System]]

CATEGORIES: Solar System

The formation and evolution of the Solar System describes how the Solar System began, and how it will go on changing. The accepted idea is that 4.6 billion years ago, there was a very big cloud of gas nearby our area of space, known as a nebula. 

All things with mass come together, or gravitate towards one another. This pulled all the gas towards the center. Eventually the pressure at the center raised the temperature so that hydrogen atoms fused together to make helium. This began the star we know as the Sun. The process by which solar systems are created is called the nebular theory. 

The spin of the planets around the Sun, and each around its own axis, was first caused by the original gas cloud having different density in different places. The spin increased because of the contraction under gravity (conservation of energy). So did the flatness of the solar system's shape. As the collapse continues, conservation of angular momentum means that the rotation accelerated. This largely prevents the gas from directly sticking onto the central core. The gas is forced to spread outwards near its equatorial plane, forming a disk, which in turn sticks onto the core.

Gravity caused the atoms in the Sun to become very close to each other. All this energy eventually made our star: the Sun. The leftover gas mostly went to the gas giants—also known as Jovian planets. 

Because of the Sun's huge mass (99.86% of the whole mass of the Solar System), it had very strong gravity.  The centrifugal force of the planets going round the Sun balances the gravitational pull of the Sun. The huge density at its core causes a fusion reaction which turns hydrogen into helium with the radiation of heat, light and other forms of electromagnetic radiation.

Rock and dust makes the terrestrial planets, their moons, asteroids and all other objects in the Solar System.  The gas giant planets also do have rocky or metallic centres. This is known from the data-gathering by satellites. This rocky material cannot come from the Sun, because the Sun is all hydrogen plus some helium.

The next issue is: if the Sun turns hydrogen into helium, where do all the other elements come from? There is only one possible answer: these higher elements came from earlier generations of stars. Huge supernovas which exploded billions of years ago in the neighbourhood of the young Solar System produced the higher elements. Huge stars run through their life cycle much faster than smaller stars. That is caused by the even higher pressures and temperatures inside them as compared with an average main sequence star like the Sun.

== History of the idea == 

The nebular hypothesis, as it was called, was first worked out in the 18th century. Three men worked on it:

Swedenborg first had the idea, and Kant worked it up into a proper theory. In 1755 Kant published his Universal natural history and theory of the heavens (in German, of course). He argued that gaseous clouds, nebulae, slowly rotate, gradually collapse and flatten due to gravity. They eventually form stars and planets.

Meanwhile, a similar model was developed independently and proposed in 1796 by Laplace. in his Exposition du systeme du monde. He thought that the Sun originally had an extended hot atmosphere throughout the volume of the Solar System. His theory had a contracting and cooling protosolar nebula. As this cooled and contracted, it flattened and spun more rapidly, throwing off (or shedding) a series of gaseous rings of material; and according to him, the planets condensed from this material. His model was similar to Kant's, except more detailed and on a smaller scale. Unfortunately, there was a problem with Laplace's version. The main problem was the angular momentum distribution between the Sun and planets. The planets have 99% of the angular momentum, and this fact could not be explained by the nebular model. It was quite a long time before this was understood.

The birth of the modern widely accepted theory of planetary formation – the solar nebular disk model (SNDM) – is due to the Soviet astronomer Victor Safronov. His book Evolution of the protoplanetary cloud and formation of the Earth and the planets, translated to English in 1972, had a big effect. In this book almost all major problems of the planetary formation process were formulated and some of them solved. Safronov's ideas were further developed. There are still quite a few aspects of the Solar System which need to be explained. 

Although it originally applied only to our own Solar System, the SNDM is now thought to be the usual way of star formation throughout the universe. As of August 2017, over 3000 extrasolar planets have been discovered in our galaxy.  

== Meteorites as clues to dates == 

The nebular hypothesis says that the Solar System formed from the gravitational collapse of a fragment of a giant molecular cloud. The cloud was about 20 parsec (65 light years) across, while the fragments were roughly 1 parsec (three and a quarter light-years) across.

Because of the conservation of angular momentum, the nebula spun faster as it collapsed. As the material within the nebula condensed, the atoms within it began to collide with increasing frequency, converting their kinetic energy into heat. The center, where most of the mass collected, became increasingly hotter than the surrounding disc. Over about 100,000 years,  a hot, dense protostar  began at the centre. 

The oldest inclusions found in meteorites may be the first solid material to form in the presolar nebula. They are 4568.2 million years old. This is one definition of the age of the Solar System.

[[Microarchitecture]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer engineering, microarchitecture (sometimes abbreviated to µarch or uarch) is a description of the electrical circuitry of a computer, central processing unit, or digital signal processor that is sufficient for completely describing the operation of the hardware.  

Scholars use the term "computer organization" while people in the computer industry more often say, "microarchitecture".  Microarchitecture and instruction set architecture (ISA), together, constitute the field of computer architecture.

[[Southampton Corporation Tramways]]

CATEGORIES: Tram transport in the United Kingdom, Southampton, Defunct companies of the United Kingdom, 1879 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1949 disestablishments, 1940s disestablishments in the United Kingdom

Southampton Corporation Tramways was a transport company that opened in 1879 and closed in 1949. At first the trams were horse-drawn, but later they were powered by electricity.

[[Can't Stop This Thing We Started]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 songs, Bryan Adams songs

"Can't Stop This Thing We Started" is a song by Bryan Adams. The song was the second single from Adams' 1991 album Waking Up the Neighbours, a successor of the single "(Everything I Do) I Do It for You".

[[Graeme Pollock]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, People from Durban, South African cricketers, White South African people

Robert Graeme Pollock, known as Graeme, (born 27 February 1944 in Durban, Natal, South Africa) was a national cricketer for South Africa. He played in 23 test matches for his country.

He comes from a famous cricketing family, Pollock is widely seen as South Africa's greatest cricketer, and as one of the best left-handed batsmen to have played Test cricket. 

He won many awards, including:

Donald Bradman said that Pollock and Sir Garfield Sobers were the best left-handers Bradman had ever seen play cricket.

[[Garfield Sobers]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, West Indies cricketers, Barbadian sportspeople

Sir Garfield St Aubrun Sobers (born 28 July 1936 in Bridgetown, Barbados) is a former West Indian cricketer. He is often known as Garry.

Sobers was a very good batsman and highly effective bowler. He was able to bowl both fast and as a spinner. Sobers is widely regarded as the greatest all rounder of all time and, with Sir Donald Bradman, as one of the greatest cricketers of any type.April 2009

[[Uttoxeter]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Staffordshire, Civil parishes in Staffordshire, Market towns in England

Uttoxeter is a small market town and civil parish in East Staffordshire, Staffordshire, England. In 2001, 12,023 people lived there. This number was expected to grow when new developments in the town finished. Uttoxeter is close to the River Dove. It is near the cities of Stoke-on-Trent, Derby and Lichfield. It is twinned with Raisdorf in Germany (with whom close links are still maintained), and Fumel in France.

[[European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo]]

CATEGORIES: European Union, Kosovo

The European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo also called EULEX Kosovo is a contract between the European Union and Kosovo. With this, certain states of the European Union will send police forces as well as lawyers to help make Kosovo more secure. This is what was agreed by the Ahtisaari plan. The idea is to continue the presence of foreign police forces to help the police in Kosovo, as planned under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. Russia and Serbia see this mission as illegal. The plan is to have 2.000 police force and lawyers on the ground. The mission started to deploy its forces on 16 February 2008. Currently only 400 of the some 1,900 police officers and judges foreseen by the EULEX mission are in place.

[[Terry Nation]]

CATEGORIES: Welsh writers, British screenwriters, Doctor Who, 1930 births, 1997 deaths

Terry Nation (August 8 1930 – March 9 1997) was a Welsh television screenwriter. 

He is best known for creating the Daleks in 1963 in the long-running science fiction television series Doctor Who. Nation also created two science-fiction shows - Survivors and ''Blake's 7.

[[Rogério Ceni]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Brazilian association football goalkeepers, Brazilian football managers

Rogério Mücke Ceni (born 22 January 1973) better known as Rogério Ceni, is a retired Brazilian football player. He was a goalkeeper. He played for the football team São Paulo from 1990 to 2015. Ceni had been the holder of his position since 1997. He retired in December 2015.

[[Inauguration]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Ceremonies

Inauguration is a ceremony marking the beginning of a politician taking office or the opening of, for example, a bridge.

When a politician, for example a President, takes office, he may make an oath of office in front of an audience as part of the inauguration ceremony.

The Inauguration of the President of the United States takes place on January 20 in the year after an election. 

[[Beige]]

Beige is a very pale brown color. 

The name comes from beige cloth, a woolen fabric left in its natural color. It then came to be used for a range of light tints of yellow chosen for their neutral or pale warm colored appearance.  

In the 1920s, the meaning of the term beige expanded to the point where it is now also used for not only for pale yellows but also for a wide range of pale brown shades.

The first recorded use of beige as a color name in English was in 1887. 

The color beige means  neutral, calm, and relaxing.

[[Fahmida Mirza]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Pakistani politicians, Physicians, Pakistani businesspeople, Speakers of the National Assembly of Pakistan, Pakistani scientists

Dr. Fahmida Mirza (فہمیدہ مرزا), sometimes also spelled as Fehmida Mirza (born December 20, 1956), is a medical doctor, agriculturist and businesswoman from Hyderabad, Sindh, Pakistan. She was elected as the first female Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan on March 19, 2008. She is also the first female parliamentary speaker in the Muslim world.

[[Dominion of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Pakistan, 20th century in Bangladesh, Partition of India, 1947 establishments in Asia, 1956 disestablishments, 1950s disestablishments in Asia

The Dominion of Pakistan was an independent federal dominion in South Asia that was created in 1947 in the partition of British India into two sovereign dominions (the other being the Union of India).

The dominion included modern-day Pakistan (called West Pakistan) and Bangladesh (East Pakistan). It was supposed to be a homeland for the Muslims of the Indian sub-continent.  It became the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in 1956. The eastern part of the country became independent as the People's Republic of Bangladesh in 1971.

[[Rubens Barrichello]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Brazilian racecar drivers, Formula One current, Formula One drivers

Rubens Gonçalves "Rubinho" Barrichello (born May 23, 1972 in São Paulo) is a Brazilian Formula One racing driver. Driving for the Brawn GP team, Barrichello finished third in the 2009 championship. He raced for WilliamsF1 in 2010, and will race for Williams in 2011.

[[Digital signal processor]]

CATEGORIES: Digital signal processing

A digital signal processor (DSP or DSP micro) is a specialized microprocessor designed specifically for digital signal processing, generally used in real-time computing.

Digital signal processing algorithms require a large number of mathematical operations to be performed quickly on a set of data.  Signals are converted from analog to digital, manipulated digitally, and then converted again to form digital to analog, as shown in the diagram.  Many digital signal processing applications have real-time constraints; that is, for the system to work, the DSP operation must be completed within some time limit.

The microarchitecture of a digital signal processor is optimized specifically for digital signal processing applications.

[[Lies for the Liars]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Reprise Records albums

Lies for the Liars is a full-length album released in 2007 by The Used.

[[If Only You Were Lonely]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Hawthorne Heights albums

If Only You Were Lonely is the second album released by Hawthorne Heights. Many listeners consider the album more on the dark side, than the first Hawthorne Heights albumApril 2009.

The album includes a few songs where death growls are absent, and others where it is only used in a small part of the song, to make it fit better. Previously, they would use these harsh vocals a lot more.

It had three singles: "Saying Sorry", "This is Who We Are" and "Pens and Needles".

[[Digital signal processing]]

CATEGORIES: Digital signal processing

Digital signal processing (DSP) is concerned with the processing of digital signals or analog signals after converting from analog to digital format.

DSP includes subfields like: communication signals processing, radar signal processing, sensor array processing, digital image processing, etc.

DSP is usually used with real-world analog signals found in our lives, the first step is usually to convert the signal from an analog to a digital form, by using an analog-to-digital converter. Often, the required output signal is another real-world analog signal, which requires a digital-to-analog converter.

Digital signal processing algorithms can run on:

[[Avaí FC]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian football clubs, Santa Catarina, 1923 establishments, 1920s establishments in Brazil

Avaí Futebol Clube, or Avaí as they are usually called, is a Brazilian football team from Florianópolis in Santa Catarina, founded on September 1, 1923. It became nationally known after the tennis player Gustavo Kuerten declared to be a supporter of Avaí.

Home stadium is the Ressacada stadium, capacity 19,000. They play in blue shirts, shorts and socks.

[[Estádio da Ressacada]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Brazil, Santa Catarina, 1983 establishments, 1980s establishments in Brazil

The Estádio Aderbal Ramos da Silva, usually called Estádio da Ressacada or just Ressacada, is a football stadium inaugurated on November 15, 1983 in Carianos neighborhood, Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil, with a maximum capacity of approximately 19,000 people. The stadium is owned by Avaí. Its formal name honors Aderbal Ramos da Silva, who was president of the Santa Catarina Football Federation and was also governor of the state.

Several matches of the Brazilian football team, as well as the Brazilian football olympic team were played at Ressacada stadium.

This stadium should not be confused with Blumenau's stadium, which is also called Estádio Aderbal Ramos da Silva, however it is nicknamed DEBA, and has a maximum capacity of 4,000 people.

[[Ford Anglia]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s automobiles, 1940s automobiles, 1950s automobiles, 1960s automobiles, Ford automobiles

Ford Anglia was a car produced by Ford Motor Company from 1939 through 1967.

[[Flag of France]]

CATEGORIES: France, National flags

The Flag of France is called the "Tricolour" (le drapeau tricolore). It was adopted 15 February 1794. It is blue, white and red. Valéry Giscard d'Estaing chose the current colors.

[[Coat of arms of France]]

CATEGORIES: France, National coats of arms

The national emblem of France has been a symbol of the country since 1953. It is not officially the coat of Arms but it appears on French passports.

On it you can see:

[[Democratic socialism]]

CATEGORIES: Socialism, Democracy, Political systems

Democratic socialism is a socialism where government is organized by democracy. In short, it believes that social and economic decisions should be made by those whom they most affect. 

The combination of the two ideologies of democracy and socialism make democratic socialism. Democratic socialists believe that both the economy and society should be run democratically—to meet public needs, not to make profits for a few. To achieve a more just society, many structures of the government and economy must be radically transformed through greater economic and social democracy so that ordinary citizens can participate in the many decisions that affect their lives. Democratic socialists do not want to create an all-powerful government bureaucracy, but at the same time do not want big corporate bureaucracies to control our society either.  

Examples of democratic socialist include Salvador Allende, the democratically elected President of Chile who was overthrown by a US-backed coup de etat; Evo Morales, the former president of Bolivia; and the United Kingdom Parliament's former Leader of the Opposition Jeremy Corbyn.

Democratic socialism is not the same as Marxism-Leninism, which believes in single party rule.

[[Opel Sintra]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, Opel automobiles

The Opel Sintra is an Large MPV produced by the German automaker Opel

from 1996 to 1999. The Sintra is branded as Opel in Europe and Vauxhall in Great Britain.

The reason for the Sintra to end production was because EuroNCAP tested a 1998 model and found it only scored 2.5 Stars, forcing Opel to drop the model in 1999. The model was criticised for its dull styling and poor build quality as well as being unsatisfying to own. Because the Astra-Based Zafira MPV debuted when the Sintra finished production in 1999, sometimes it is said that the Zafira replaced the Sintra,but actually Opel never had another Large MPV after the Sintra, and then eventually Opel abandoned the Large MPV style in Europe.

[[Opel Zafira]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Opel automobiles

Opel Zafira is a car produced by the German carmaker Opel since 1999, and is branded as Vauxhall Zafira in Great Britain. It currently in its third generation.

[[Opel Vectra]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Opel automobiles

Opel Vectra was a car produced by the German carmaker Opel from 1988 to 2008 and branded as Opel in Europe (except for the United Kingdom), Vauxhall in the United Kingdom and The Republic of Ireland, Holden in Australia and in New Zealand, and Chevrolet in Latin America.

It was produced from August 1988 to September 2008, when it was replaced by the European Car of the Year award-winning Insignia.

[[A (disambiguation)]]

A is the first letter of the alphabet. It may also refer to:

[[Poison dart frog]]

CATEGORIES: Poison dart frogs, Venomous animals

Poison dart frog  is the common name of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae. They are native to Central and South America. 

Unlike many frogs, these are active during the day. They often have brightly-coloured bodies, which act as warning colouration. All dendrobatids are at least somewhat toxic.  In the wild, frog of different species and in different places may have very different levels of toxicity.  Many species are critically endangered. 

Poison dart frogs are poisonous because they eat ants and other small insects that have toxins in their bodies. If an animal eats the frog, it will become very sick. 

[[Golden dart frog]]

CATEGORIES: Poison dart frogs

The golden dart frog (Phyllobates terribilis) is a poison dart frog. It lives in the Pacific coast of Colombia. 

In captivity, poison dart frogs are not poisonous. It is in the wild where they are poisonous because of what they eat. This amphibian of the Dendrobatidae family is considered the most poisonous vertebrate in the world.  The optimal habitat of P. terribilis is the rainforest with high rain rates (5 m. or more), altitude between 100-200 m, temperature of 26 °C, and relative humidity of 80-90%.

The high toxicity of P. terribilis may be due to eating small insects or other arthropods, and one of these may truly be the most poisonous creature on Earth. Scientists have suggested the crucial insect may be a small beetle from the family Melyridae. At least one species of these beetles produces the same toxin found in P. terribilis. Their relatives in Colombian rainforests could be the source of the batrachotoxins found in the highly toxic Phyllobates frogs of that region.

[[Mercedes-Benz R-Class]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, Mercedes-Benz automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Mercedes-Benz R-Class is a car made by Mercedes-Benz introduced in 2005. The model wasn't a strong seller for Mecedes-Benz and was discontinued in 2012 without a replacement. 

[[Mercedes-Benz C-Class]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Mercedes-Benz automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Mercedes-Benz C-Class is a luxury car made by Mercedes-Benz since 1993. It is currently in its fourth generation. The C-Class is the most popular Mercedes-Benz. It is the main competitor of the BMW 3 Series and Audi A4. The interior is made up of soft-touch leather and aluminium. It is priced in between the A-Class and the E–Class. To be more specific, a base model C-Class can be priced at around 41,000 dollars.

[[Ford F-Series]]

CATEGORIES: Ford automobiles, Pickup trucks

Ford F-Series is a series of pickup trucks produced by Ford Motor Company since 1948. It is currently in its Thirteenth Generation. The most popular variant of the F-Series is the F-150. It was the best-selling vehicle of its time, the most popular pickup truck for 23 years and the most popular truck for 33 years. This does not include combined sales of General Motors pickup trucks. Millions of the F-Series trucks were sold in the United States and other parts of the world, including Europe, Asia and Australia. For the 2010 model year, the SVT Raptor high-performance truck was introduced. Unlike its Lightning predecessor, it was a vehicle meant for off-road driving.

[[European Council]]

CATEGORIES: European Union

The European Council (referred to as a European Summit) is the highest political body of the European Union. It is made of all the heads of state or government of the Union's member states and with the President of the European Commission. The country which holds the Presidency of the Council of the European Union also leads its assemblies.

The Council has no formal executive or legislative powers. It is an institution that deals with very important issues and any decisions made are "a major impetus in defining the general political guidelines of the European Union". The Council meets at least twice a year; usually in the Justus Lipsius building, the quarters of the Council of the European Union (Consilium) of Brussels.

[[Nick Jonas]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, American singer-songwriters, American pop singers, American R&B singers, American rock singers, American pianists, American rock guitarists, American pop musicians, American R&B musicians, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Dallas, Texas, Singers from Dallas, Texas, Musicians from Dallas, Texas, Writers from Dallas, Texas, Singers from New Jersey, Musicians from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey, Actors from New Jersey, People from Wyckoff, New Jersey

Nicholas Jerry Jonas (born September 16, 1992) is an American singer-songwriter and actor.

Jonas formed a band with his older brothers, Joe and Kevin, known as the Jonas Brothers. The group released their debut studio album It's About Time. The band became a Disney favorite and later starred in Camp Rock (2008) and its sequel Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam (2010) as well as two of their own series, Jonas Brothers: Living the Dream (2008–2010) and Jonas (2009–2010).

In 2017, Jonas appeared in the adventure comedy movie Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle.

Jonas is married to Indian actress and singer Priyanka Chopra.

[[Joe Jonas]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, American singer-songwriters, American pop singers, American R&B singers, American rock singers, American pianists, American rock guitarists, American pop musicians, American R&B musicians, American funk singers, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Singers from Arizona, Writers from Arizona, Musicians from Arizona, Actors from Arizona, Singers from New Jersey, Musicians from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey, Actors from New Jersey, People from Wyckoff, New Jersey

Joseph Adam Jonas (born August 15, 1989) is an American singer-songwriter, and actor. He became known as a member of the pop rock band the Jonas Brothers, alongside his brothers Kevin and Nick.

He starred in Camp Rock (2008) and its sequel Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam (2010) as well as two television series, Jonas Brothers: Living the Dream (2008–2010) and Jonas (2009–2010).

After the Jonas Brothers officially split-up, Jonas formed the funk-pop band DNCE in 2015. The group became well known for their debut single "Cake by the Ocean", which peaked at number 9 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in the United States.

In 2019, he married English actress Sophie Turner.

[[INSEE]]

CATEGORIES: France

INSEE (Institut National de la Statistique et des Études Économiques) is the French national institute for Statistics and Economic studies. The INSEE was created in 1946. It replaced the National Statistics Service (SNS) which was created under the Vichy government during World War II.

[[Anhedonia]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Symptoms

In psychology, anhedonia (< Greek αν- an-, without + ηδονή hēdonē, pleasure ) is not being able to feel pleasure. This may include not enjoying things like eating, exercise, watching movies, meeting friends, social activities, or sexual interaction and activity.

In most cases, anhedonia is caused by mental disorders. It happens in some severe cases of depression and it is a common symptom of schizophrenia, schizoid personality disorder and major depressive disorder.

[[CFP Franc]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of Oceania, Economy of France, French Polynesia

The CFP franc (usually just called franc) is the currency used in some of France's overseas colonies (French Polynesia, New Caledonia and Wallis and Futuna). It was created in December 1945. The initials CFP originally stood for Colonies françaises du Pacifique ("French colonies of the Pacific") but now officially stand for Change Franc Pacifique ("Pacific Franc Exchange"). There are 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50 and 100 CFP franc coins and 500, 1000, 5000 and 10 000 CFP franc banknotes.

[[Pierre Corneille]]

CATEGORIES: 1606 births, 1684 deaths, French playwrights

Pierre Corneille (June 6, 1606 – October 1, 1684) was a French playwright. He is one of the most famous 17th century French dramatists. Some others are Molière and Racine. He has been called “the founder of French tragedy” and produced plays for nearly forty years. 

[[Jean Racine]]

CATEGORIES: French playwrights, 1639 births, 1699 deaths

Jean Racine (December 22, 1639 – April 21, 1699) was a French playwright. He was one of the most famous of the 17th century in France (with Molière and Corneille). Racine was mostly a tragedian, even though he did write one comedy.

[[Hurricane Iniki]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 in the United States, Disasters in the 1990s, 20th century in Hawaii, Retired tropical cyclone names, Hurricanes in the United States

Hurricane Iniki was the 10th hurricane and the 7th major hurricane of the 1992 Pacific hurricane season. Iniki was a powerful hurricane that affected Hawaii, just weeks after Hurricane Andrew stuck Florida during the Atlantic hurricane season.

[[Cinderella]]

CATEGORIES: Fairy tales, Works by Charles Perrault

"Cinderella, or The Little Glass Slipper"  is a fairy tale by Charles Perrault. It was first published anonymously in Paris in 1697  in Histoires ou contes du temps passé (Stories or Tales of Past Times), a collection of eight fairy tales by Perrault.

The story is about an ill-treated girl who, with the help of her fairy godmother, travels to a ball in a pumpkin coach.  She flees the ball at midnight and loses her glass slipper. A prince, who has fallen in love with her, finds her lost slipper and uses it later to find her.

Similar European tales are found in Bonaventure des Periers's New Recreations and Joyous Games (1558) and Giambattista Basile's Pentamerone (1634-6). The Brothers Grimm included their version, "Aschenputtel", in Children's and Household Tales (1812). Tales similar to "Cinderella" exist in Chinese, Indian, African, Javanese, Australian, and Japanese literature and folklore. The tale has been adapted to the stage, movies, television, and other media.

[[Iranian]]

Iranian may refer to:

[[Cognitive-behavioral therapy]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine, Psychology

Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is a type of psychotherapy which aims to help people transform their maladaptive thoughts and behaviours into a better state of being. Psychologists task patients to try out different situational coping skills and help patients to acknowledge, then challenge those problematic thought patterns, feelings and behaviors.  CBT refers to many types of psychotherapeutic systems that deal with cognitions, interpretations, beliefs and responses. These systems come from strategies commonly used in cognitive therapy and behavior therapy, combining them.  This combination is used to identify problems faced in the present and tries to improve the patient's current state of mind. 

CBT has emerged as a common treatment for concerns regarding moods. It has become increasingly popular for reasons such as its defined structure and that it is based on common sense. Research shows that CBT is the most effective form of treatment for those coping with depression and anxiety. CBT alone is 50-75% effective for overcoming depression and anxiety after 5 – 15 modules. Medication alone is effective, however, science still does not understand the long-term effects on the brain and body. There is evidence which suggests that CBT may be more cost-efficient in the long run in comparison to medication. Although, a combination of medication and CBT seems to be the most effective in overcoming mental illness. In particular, antidepressants paired with CBT could reduce potential relapses in patients facing depression.

CBT is often recommended for mood-related disorders such as depression and anxiety, but it can also treat personality disorders, post traumatic stress disorder and eating disorders. CBT can take place one-on-one between a therapist and a client, during group therapy, or online.

[[Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR / AIP) is considered by many therapists as a major form of psychotherapy. Francine Shapiro, Ph.D., noted that recalling or thinking about disturbing events, coupled with eye-motion; audio input or sensory input (touch, smell, taste) could aid unprocessed emotional trauma that are emotionally hurtful or painful to the body. The once painful emotional materials are un-embedded via recall of the event coupled with a sensory input which are 'metabolized' by the person's psyche from a painful and harmful state into a helpful learning experience. This processing has proven useful in helping overcome many traumatic events ranging from rape, family violence, physical or verbal abuse, first-responder shock, chronic pain, combat, hurtful memories; select health issues and unresolved, hurtful life experiences. 

EMDR involves the processing of painful emotional events via the recalling of the event...paired with movement of the eyes; the hearing of select sound; tactile contact; gustatory (taste) input as an input into the brains processing. This process helps the client to move-on from the physical or emotional pain they are feeling. EMDR or Adaptive Information Processing (AIP) as it is alternatively named, has been being tested and researched in a large number of organizations since it was first discovered in 1987. 

Like all psychological theorems and processes it has it's admiring adherents and strong critics. 

The EMDR has training and trainers licensed internationally and over 10,000 psychologists and therapists qualified to practice in the U.S.  

TREATMENT DESCRIPTION 

EMDR therapy combines different elements to maximize treatment effects.  A full description of the theory, sequence of treatment, and research on protocols and active mechanisms can be found in F. Shapiro (2001) Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing:  Basic principles, protocols and procedures (2nd edition) New York: Guilford Press. 

EMDR therapy involves attention to three time periods:  the past, present, and future.  Focus is given to past disturbing memories and related events.  Also, it is given to current situations that cause distress, and to developing the skills and attitudes needed for positive future actions.  With EMDR therapy, these items are addressed using an eight-phase treatment approach.

Phase 1:  The first phase is a history-taking session(s).  The therapist assesses the client’s readiness and develops a treatment plan.  Client and therapist identify possible targets for EMDR processing.  These include distressing memories and current situations that cause emotional distress.  Other targets may include related incidents in the past.  Emphasis is placed on the development of specific skills and behaviors that will be needed by the client in future situations.

Initial EMDR processing may be directed to childhood events rather than to adult onset stressors or the identified critical incident if the client had a problematic childhood.  Clients generally gain insight on their situations, the emotional distress resolves and they start to change their behaviors.  The length of treatment depends upon the number of traumas and the age of PTSD onset.  Generally, those with single event adult onset trauma can be successfully treated in under 5 hours.  Multiple trauma victims may require a longer treatment time.

Phase 2:  During the second phase of treatment, the therapist ensures that the client has several different ways of handling emotional distress.  The therapist may teach the client a variety of imagery and stress reduction techniques the client can use during and between sessions. A goal of EMDR therapy is to produce rapid and effective change while the client maintains equilibrium during and between sessions.

Phases 3-6:  In phases three to six, a target is identified and processed using EMDR therapy procedures.  These involve the client identifying three things:

1.  The vivid visual image related to the memory

2.  A negative belief about self

3.  Related emotions and body sensations.

In addition, the client identifies a positive belief.  The therapist helps the client rate the positive belief as well as the intensity of the negative emotions.  After this, the client is instructed to focus on the image, negative thought, and body sensations while simultaneously engaging in EMDR processing using sets of bilateral stimulation.  These sets may include eye movements, taps, or tones.  The type and length of these sets is different for each client.  At this point, the EMDR client is instructed to just notice whatever spontaneously happens.

After each set of stimulation, the clinician instructs the client to let his/her mind go blank and to notice whatever thought, feeling, image, memory, or sensation comes to mind.  Depending upon the client’s report, the clinician will choose the next focus of attention.  These repeated sets with directed focused attention occur numerous times throughout the session.  If the client becomes distressed or has difficulty in progressing, the therapist follows established procedures to help the client get back on track.

When the client reports no distress related to the targeted memory, (s)he is asked to think of the preferred positive belief that was identified at the beginning of the session.  At this time, the client may adjust the positive belief if necessary, and then focus on it during the next set of distressing events.

Phase 7:  In phase seven, closure, the therapist asks the client to keep a log during the week.  The log should document any related material that may arise.  It serves to remind the client of the self-calming activities that were mastered in phase two.

Phase 8:  The next session begins with phase eight.  Phase eight consists of examining the progress made thus far.  The EMDR treatment processes all related historical events, current incidents that elicit distress, and future events that will require different responses.

[[Analog-to-digital converter]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic circuits

An analog-to-digital converter (abbreviated ADC, A/D or A to D) is an electronic integrated circuit that converts a continuous quantity to a discrete time digital number. An ADC may also provide an isolated measurement. The reverse operation is performed by a digital-to-analog converter (DAC).

Typically, an ADC is an electronic device that converts an input analog voltage or current to a digital number. The size of the number grows with an increase in the input voltage or current.  However, some non-electronic or only partially electronic devices, such as rotary encoders, can also be considered ADCs.

[[Digital-to-analog converter]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic circuits

In electronics, a digital-to-analog converter (abbreviated DAC or D-to-A) is a device for converting a digital (usually binary) code to an analog signal (current, voltage or electric charge).

An analog-to-digital converter (ADC) performs the reverse operation.

[[Digital Signal Controller]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Computer science

A Digital Signal Controller (DSC) can be thought of as a hybrid of microcontrollers and DSP processors.  

[[Naltrexone]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Addiction

Naltrexone is an opioid receptor antagonist. It is often used to help alcohol dependence and opioid dependence. It is different from the drug naloxone. Naloxone is used in emergency cases of overdose. Naltrexone is for longer-term control of dependence. Naltrexone can help with overdose, but naloxone is more helpful in those cases.

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence recommends naltrexone for people who are fully detoxed from alcohol or opioids and are highly motivated to remain abstinent. Naltrexone is also sometimes used off-label to treat opioid and nicotine withdrawal as well. Although naltrexone is a helpful medication, it is not a cure for alcohol or opioid dependence. To be effective, naltrexone must be combined with other psychosocial therapies such as cognitive behavioral therapy or motivational interviewing, or with a 12-step program such as Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous.

[[Proximity fuze]]

CATEGORIES: weapons

A proximity fuze (also called a VT fuze, for "variable time") is a fuze that is made to create an explosion when the distance to the target becomes smaller than a set value, or when the target passes through a given line. Proximity fuzes are mostly used in anti-aircraft warfare. They usually work as a simple radar. 

[[PT boat]]

CATEGORIES: Naval ships of the United States

PT Boats were motor torpedo boats ("PT", for "Patrol Torpedo"). They were small, fast ships used by the United States Navy in World War II to attack larger surface ships. The PT boat squadrons were nicknamed "the mosquito fleet".

[[Radar jamming]]

CATEGORIES: War, Wave physics

Radar jamming is the emission of radio frequency signals to interfere with the work of a radar by flooding its receiver with noise or false information. There are two types of radar jamming: Mechanical and electronic jamming.

[[Peace Corps]]

CATEGORIES: United States government agencies

The Peace Corps is an independent United States federal agency. The Peace Corps was started by Executive Order 10924 on March 1, 1961, and allowed by Congress on September 22, 1961, with passage of the Peace Corps Act (Public Law 87-293). The first president of the Peace Corps was Sargent Shriver. The Peace Corps Act says the purpose of the Peace Corps is: 

“to promote world peace and friendship through a Peace Corps, which shall make available to interested countries and areas men and women of the United States qualified for service abroad and willing to serve, under conditions of hardship if necessary, to help the peoples of such countries and areas in meeting their needs for trained manpower.”

Since 1960, more than 190,000 people have served as Peace Corps volunteers in 139 countries.

[[Great Society]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s in the United States

The Great Society was a set of programs proposed or enacted in the United States by President Lyndon B. Johnson. Two main goals of the Great Society were to end poverty and to end racial discrimination. New major spending programs that dealt with education, medical care, urban problems, and transportation were started during this period. The Great Society was like the New Deal domestic plan of Franklin D. Roosevelt, but had very different programs.

Unlike the New Deal, The Great Society focused more on people rather than the economy. Medicaid and Medicare were implemented to help poor Americans. President Lyndon B. Johnson’s Great Society was the largest expansion of spending programs since the Great Depression. Many of the programs that exist can be attributed to the passage of the Great Society .

[[Edward Seymour, 1st Duke of Somerset]]

CATEGORIES: 1506 births, 1552 deaths, English Dukes

Edward Seymour, 1st Duke of Somerset (c. 1506 – 22 January, 1552) was an English peer and politician. He was Lord Protector of England during the reign of King Edward VI, because Edward was too young to rule alone. He served as Lord Protector from 1547 to 1552, when he was executed for treason.

[[Sit-in]]

CATEGORIES: Social sciences

A sit-in or sit-down is a form of direct action that involves one or more persons nonviolently occupying an area for a protest.

[[Alden B. Dow]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1983 deaths, American architects, People from Midland, Michigan, Businesspeople from Michigan

Alden B. Dow (April 10 1904, Midland, Michigan – August 20 1983) was an American architect. He was the son of Herbert Henry Dow (founder of the Dow Chemical Company) and Grace A. Dow. Dow is known for his architectural design. His personal house in Midland, the Midland Center for the Arts, the Fleming Administration Building, as well as the building for the Grace A. Dow Library (named after his mother) are examples of his important work.

[[Strategic Defense Initiative]]

CATEGORIES: Cold War, Military of the United States, War, Presidency of Ronald Reagan, Military-industrial complex

The Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) was a plan created by U.S. President Ronald Reagan on March 23, 1983 to use ground and space-based systems to protect the United States from attack by nuclear ballistic missiles. The initiative focused on defense instead on the offensive mutual assured destruction (MAD).

[[Circa]]

CATEGORIES: Latin words used in English

Circa is Latin for "around" or "about". It is often used to show when something approximately happened. It is often shortened to c., ca., ca or cca.

An encyclopedia entry may begin with circa in the date of birth, for example: "Genghis Khan (c. 1162 – August 18, 1227)". The "c." means that he was born in about 1162, but the exact date is not certain. Sometimes the circa symbol is italicized to show that it is not in the English language.

Estimated values of different units may also begin with circa in research reports and scientific articles, for example "it involved c.450 kg of carved ivory". The "c." means that it was an estimated value based on an average value or any other coefficient that the researcher will generally define in the methodology.

[[Varg Vikernes]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Arsonists, Murderers, Norwegian musical entertainers, Political activists

Varg Vikernes (legal name Louis Cachet, born Kristian Vikernes on February 11, 1973 near Bergen, Norway) is a black metal musician, convicted murderer, arsonist and political activist. In 1991 Vikernes created the one-man music project Burzum. Burzum quickly became important within the early Norwegian black metal scene. Later he became a part of the Heathen Front and wrote several writings on Germanic neopaganism. In a documentary on heavy metal, he was described as "the most notorious metal musician of all time."

In the early 1990s, there were black metal bands who believed in burning churches to prove their hatred for Christianity. Vikernes was found guilty of arson and the murder of Mayhem band member Øystein 'Euronymous' Aarseth. He was sent to prison for 21 years. Vikernes was up for parole in 2008 but it was denied. He was released in March 2009.

On July 16th 2013, Vikernes and his wife, a French national, were arrested in Corrèze, France, on suspicion of planning acts of terrorism because his wife had purchased four rifles. They were released with no charges after police could not identify any terrorist plans or targets.

[[Spider-Man 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies, 2000s superhero movies, English-language movies, Movies composed by Danny Elfman, Movies directed by Sam Raimi, Sequel movies, Spider-Man (2002 movie series), Spider-Man movies, Buena Vista International movies, Movies that won the Best Visual Effects Academy Award

Spider-Man 2 is a 2004 movie and the sequel to the 2002 Spider-Man movie. All of the main cast came back to make the movie.

[[Paul Gauguin]]

CATEGORIES: 1848 births, 1903 deaths, Artists from Paris, Deaths from infectious disease, French painters, French printmakers

Eugène Henri Paul Gauguin (7 June 1848 – 8 May 1903) was a leading French post-Impressionist painter. He was not well appreciated until after his death. Gauguin was later recognized for his experimental use of color and style that were different from Impressionism. His work was influential among the French avant-garde and fauvism, as well later artists such as Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse. Gauguin’s art became popular after his death; partly from the efforts of art dealer Ambroise Vollard. 

Gaugin gave up his family and life to live in Tahiti in 1891. He died of syphilis in 1903.

[[The Three Musketeers]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 books, French novels

The Three Musketeers (Les Trois Mousquetaires) is a novel of adventure fiction by Alexandre Dumas, père. It is the story of a young man named d'Artagnan. He leaves home to become a musketeer of the guard of King Louis XIII of France. He and his friends Athos, Porthos, and Aramis live by the motto, "One for all, and all for one" (Un pour tous, et tous pour un!).

The story of d'Artagnan is continued in Twenty Years After and The Vicomte de Bragelonne. Those three novels by Dumas are together known as the D'Artagnan Romances.

The Three Musketeers was first published in serial form in the magazine Le Siècle between March and July 1844. All the books sold well and made plenty of money for Dumas. The story was later made into several plays and movies.

[[A Clockwork Orange (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 drama movies, 1970s crime drama movies, 1971 science fiction movies, Antisocial personality disorder in fiction, BAFTA Award winning movies, British crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Hugo Award winning movies, Movies about murderers, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Stanley Kubrick, Movies set in London, Movies set in the future, Prison movies, Rape in movies, Dystopian movies

A Clockwork Orange is a 1971 British-American crime drama thriller movie. It was written, directed and produced by Stanley Kubrick. It is based on Anthony Burgess' 1962 short novel A Clockwork Orange. It includes disturbing, violent images. Its social commentary touches on psychiatry, youth gangs, and other social, political, and economic subjects in a dystopian vision of a not-too-future Britain.

Kubrick stopped the film being shown in Britain, concerned about its possible effects. For 27 years it was difficult to see the film in the United Kingdom. It reappeared in cinemas, and the VHS and DVD releases followed, soon after Kubrick's death in 1999.

[[Pasties]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing, Body art

Pasties (sing. 'pastie') are small pieces of cloth, plastic or metal. They are treated specially so they are sticky. They are used to cover a girl's nipples or genital area. They vary in size and are usually not much larger than the person's areola.

The concept of 'pasties' is to show as much of the breast as possible without making the woman entirely topless. Many exotic dancers in strip clubs are required to wear them by law. Pasties are usually applied with a special glue or tape.  This is the origin of their name, as they are quite literally 'pasted' onto the nipple.

Pasties are worn by many neo-burlesque performers. Burlesque pasties may also feature tassels which hang from the center, performer will sometimes twirl these as part of a performance. 

Some women who choose not to wear a bra wear pasties to prevent their nipples from protruding visibly through their shirt. 

[[Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction books, French novels, 1870

Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea (Vingt mille lieues sous les mers) is a science fiction novel by French writer Jules Verne. It was published in 1870. It is the story of Captain Nemo and his submarine Nautilus. The book depicts the latest technology, and more advanced things that had not yet been invented.

[[Stendhal]]

CATEGORIES: 1783 births, 1842 deaths, French novelists, People from Grenoble, Pen names

Henri-Marie Beyle (23 January 1783 – 23 March 1842) is better known by his pen name Stendhal. He was a 19th century French writer. He is known for his precise analysis of his characters' psychology. His two most famous novels are Le Rouge et le Noir (The Red and the Black, 1830) and La Chartreuse de Parme (The Charterhouse of Parma, 1839).

Stendhal was born in Grenoble. He died in Paris.

[[Travis Barker]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, American drummers, American rock musicians, American punk musicians, Musicians from California

Travis Landon Barker (born November 14, 1975) is an American drummer. He is better known for being in the band Blink-182. He is also the drummer for +44 and has several side projects such as Box Car Racer, Transplants and Expensive Taste.

[[Guy de Maupassant]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 births, 1893 deaths, French writers

Guy de Maupassant (5 August 1850 – 6 July 1893) was a popular 19th century French writer. He is considered one of the fathers of the modern short story. 

He was an apprentice of Flaubert. Maupassant's stories have a common economy of style and their efficient, effortless dénouement (ending). Many of the stories are set during the Franco-Prussian War. Many more describe the war. He also wrote six short novels.

[[Prairie dog]]

CATEGORIES: Squirrels, Mammals of North America

Prairie dogs are a genus of ground squirrels. They are  small, burrowing rodents which live in short-grass prairies and the high plains of western North America. The explorers Lewis and Clark sent a prairie dog to President Thomas Jefferson during their expedition; it was quite strange to him.

Prairie dogs are found in North America. In Mexico, they are mostly found in the northern states, which are the southern end of the great plains: northeastern Sonora, north and northeastern Chihuahua, northern Coahuila, northern Nuevo León, and northern Tamaulipas; in the U.S., they range primarily west of the Mississippi River, though they have also been introduced in a few eastern locales. They are also found in the Canadian Prairies. They will eat all sorts of vegetables and fruits.

[[The Hunchback of Notre Dame]]

CATEGORIES: 1831 books, French novels, Works by Victor Hugo

The Hunchback of Notre Dame (Notre-Dame de Paris, "Our Lady of Paris") is a 1831 French novel written by Victor Hugo. It is set in 1482 Paris. The story is about a Gypsy (Esmeralda), a bell-ringer in the cathedral of Notre Dame de Paris (Quasimodo) and the archdeacon (Claude Frollo).

[[Pierre-Auguste Renoir]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 births, 1919 deaths, French painters, People from Limoges, Impressionist painters

Pierre-Auguste Renoir (25 February 1841 – 3 December 1919) was a French artist. He was a leading painter who helped to create the Impressionist style. He painted portraits, and still life, but above all, he painted social scenes of the day. 

As a painter of women, it has been said that "Renoir is the final representative of a tradition which runs directly from Rubens to Watteau".

[[Antoine Watteau]]

CATEGORIES: 1684 births, 1721 deaths, French painters

Jean-Antoine Watteau (10 October 1684 – 18 July 1721) was a French painter. His brief career spurred the revival of interest in colour and movement in the tradition of Correggio and Rubens. It brought back the almost forgotten Baroque idiom, which, in time became known as Rococo. He invented the genre of fêtes galantes: scenes of bucolic and idyllic charm, with an air of theatricality. Some of his best known subjects were drawn from the world of Italian comedy and ballet.

[[Soggy biscuit]]

CATEGORIES: Games, Human sexuality

Soggy biscuit (also called limp biscuit, crispy cookie, ookie cookie, or jizzcuit) is a masturbation game played mostly by teenage groups in which the participants stand around a biscuit masturbating until ejaculating onto it; the last person to do so must eat the biscuit. The term is thought to have originated in Australia sometime in the 1960s.

Although the way its spelled may differ slightly, the notability of the game is shown by the variations on the being referred to in popular culture, examples including Stephen Fry's The Liar, the German movie Crazy, the 2006 film Sleeping Dogs Lie, the "Chains" episode of Blackadder II, the "Freaks & Greeks" episode of Drawn Together (2004-2006), the "Sleepover" episode of Big Mouth, Limp Bizkit, and Skinless's song "Scum Cookie".August 2019

[[Hurricane Isabel]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 Atlantic hurricane season, Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes, Retired tropical cyclone names, Hurricanes in North Carolina, 2000s in the Bahamas, 2000s in North Carolina, 2000s in Virginia, 2000s in Maryland, 2000s in South Carolina, History of West Virginia, History of Delaware, 2000s in New Jersey, 2000s in New York (state), 2000s in Pennsylvania, 2000s in Ohio, 2000s in Washington, D.C., 2003 in Canada, 2003 in the United States, Hurricanes in Virginia

Complex

Hurricane Isabel was the costliest and deadliest hurricane in the 2003 Atlantic hurricane season. It was the ninth named storm, fifth hurricane, and second major hurricane of the season. Isabel formed from a tropical wave in the tropical Atlantic Ocean. It moved northwestward, and it steadily strengthened to reach peak winds of 165 mph (265 km/h) on September 11. After weakening and strengthening for four days, Isabel slowly weakened. It moved onto the Outer Banks of North Carolina with winds of 105 mph (165 km/h) on September 18. It quickly weakened over land.

In North Carolina, the storm surge from Isabel washed away part of Hatteras Island. This area of washed away land was sometimes known as Isabel Inlet. Damage was highest along the Outer Banks, where thousands of homes were damaged or destroyed. The worst effects happened in Virginia, especially in the Hampton Roads area and on the shores of the James River. Virginia had the most deaths and damage from the hurricane. About 64% of the total damage and 68% of the total deaths from the storm happened in North Carolina and Virginia.

There was moderate to severe damage up the Atlantic coastline and as far west as West Virginia. About six million lost power in the eastern United States. Rain fell from South Carolina to Maine, and westward to Michigan. In total, damage is estimated at $3.6 billion (2003 USD, $4.1 billion 2008 USD). 16 deaths in seven states are blamed directly on the hurricane. 35 more deaths in six states and one province were not directly related to the hurricane.

[[Eugène Delacroix]]

CATEGORIES: 1798 births, 1863 deaths, French painters, People from Ile-de-France

Ferdinand Victor Eugène Delacroix (26 April 1798 – 13 August 1863) was a French Romantic artist regarded from the outset of his career as the leader of the French Romantic school. Delacroix's use of expressive brushstrokes and his study of the optical effects of colour profoundly shaped the work of the Impressionists, while his passion for the exotic inspired the artists of the Symbolist movement. A fine lithographer, Delacroix illustrated various works of William Shakespeare, the Scottish writer Sir Walter Scott, and the German writer Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.

In contrast to the Neoclassical perfectionism of his chief rival Ingres, Delacroix took for his inspiration the art of Rubens and painters of the Venetian Renaissance, with an attendant emphasis on color and movement rather than clarity of outline and carefully modeled form. Dramatic and romantic content characterized the central themes of his maturity, and led him not to the classical models of Greek and Roman art, but to travel in North Africa, in search of the exotic. Friend and spiritual heir to Théodore Géricault, Delacroix was also inspired by Byron, with whom he shared a strong identification with the "forces of the sublime", of nature in often violent action.

However, Delacroix was given neither to sentimentality nor bombast, and his Romanticism was that of an individualist. In the words of Baudelaire, "Delacroix was passionately in love with passion, but coldly determined to express passion as clearly as possible."

Delacroix was a member of the Club des Hashischins, or Hashish Club. This group of French writers experimented with hashish to get ideas.

[[Eugène Durieu]]

CATEGORIES: 1800 births, 1874 deaths, French photographers

Jean Louis Marie Eugène Durieu (1800; Nîmes, France – 1874; Paris, France) was an early French photographer of nudes, known for making studies for Eugène Delacroix.  Some of Durieu's nudes were used by Delacroix to creating his own paintings and drawings.

[[Anabolism]]

CATEGORIES: Metabolism, Biochemistry

Anabolism is the set of metabolic pathways that build molecules from smaller units. Enzymes take little molecules and stick them together to make bigger molecules. Some of these enzymes are anabolic steroids.

[[Period (punctuation)]]

CATEGORIES: Typography, Punctuation, Mathematical notation

A period (in America) is a full stop (.). It is a punctuation mark (.) at the end of a sentence. It shows that the sentence has finished. To be a sentence it must have at least one complete clause, with a verb and a subject.

When it is used in numbers, it is called a decimal point. It shows that the numbers to the right of it are less than one, as in 1.234. When it is used to write money in numbers, it shows that the numbers to the right of it are less than one pound/dollar/euro. For example:

means that Elizabeth paid one dollar and twenty-eight cents for her drink.

A point may be used after a word has been shortened: Pty. Ltd. The words doctor, mister, and mistress are often made shorter when used with a name. "Dr. Smith" is the name of a doctor whose last name is Smith, and "Mr." Banerjee is short for Mister Banerjee. "Mrs" means a wife, "Miss" is an unmarried female. "Ms" can be used for either. A point is also used after a first or middle initial, but does not follow the last name, for example, "J. Citizen".

When three periods are used together (...), they are called an ellipsis.

[[Hyphen]]

CATEGORIES: Punctuation

The hyphen  is a punctuation mark used to join words and to separate syllables of a single word. The use of hyphens is called hyphenation. A hyphen looks like this: -. Hyphens have many uses in writing.

Son-in-law is an example of a hyphenated word. The hyphen is sometimes confused with dashes which are longer and have different uses, or with the minus sign. The hyphen is the shortest of these signs.

[[Hyphen-minus]]

The hyphen-minus, -, is a symbol used as a hyphen ‐, a minus sign −, or a dash –.

[[S.H.E]]

CATEGORIES: Taiwanese musical groups, Girl groups, Pop music groups

S.H.E is a Taiwanese girl group with three people: Selina Ren, Hebe Tien, and Ella Chen. The group's name comes from the first letter of each person's name. A record label called HIM International Music created S.H.E after they organized a singing competition in 2000. 

At first, there was supposed to be only one winner; that person was Selina Ren. But then the record label thought that the other two girls, Hebe Tien and Ella Chen, were good singers too, so they put the three girls together. Since the release of Girls Dorm, S.H.E's first album, in 2001, the group has released a total of 11 albums, and sold over 4.5 million copies. However, some people do not like S.H.E because they often sing songs that other people had sung before. In addition to music, the trio has acted in many TV dramas, and sang many theme songs for them. Because of S.H.E's success, some Taiwanese companies are now trying to create girl groups of their own.

[[Multiplexer]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic circuits

In electronics, a multiplexer or mux (occasionally the term 'mul-dex is also found, for a combination multiplexer-demultiplexer'') is a device that selects one of many analog or digital input signals and outputs it into a single output line. This process is termed: multiplexing'''.

An electronic multiplexer makes it possible for several signals to share one expensive device or other resource, for example one A/D converter or one communication line, instead of having one device per input signal. 

An analog multiplexer is a special type of analog switch that connects one signal selected from several inputs to a single output.

A digital multiplexer is a set of parallel switches, with selector that selects one of the input digital channels to outputs into the single digital output channel. The selector selects one of the input channels according to the digital command (number) it receives.

In electronics, a demultiplexer (or demux) is a device taking a single input signal and selecting one of many data-output-lines, which is connected to the single input. A multiplexer is often used with a complementary demultiplexer on the receiving end. 

An electronic multiplexer can be considered as a multiple-input, single-output switch, and a demultiplexer as a single-input, multiple-output switch. 

In telecommunications and signal processing, a multiplexer is a device that combines several input information signals into one output signal, which carries several communication channels, by means of some multiplex technique. A demultiplexer is in this context a device that takes a single input signal that carries many channels and separates the channels over multiple output signals.

One cost-saving use for multiplexers is connecting a multiplexer and a demultiplexer (or demux) together (called mul-dex) over a single communication channel (by connecting the multiplexer's single output to the demultiplexer's single input). The image to the right demonstrates this.

In this case, the cost of implementing separate channels for each data source is more expensive than the cost of implementing the multiplexing/demultiplexing functions.

At the receiving end of the data link a complementary demultiplexer is normally required to break single data stream back down into the original streams.

In some cases, the far end system may have more functionality than a simple demultiplexer and so, at the same time as the demultiplexing still exists logically, it may never actually happen physically, such as in network address translation where a number of IP private network users are multiplexed over a single public IP address.

[[Tramway]]

Tramway means more than one thing:

[[Input/output]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Data input

In computing, input/output/(*.*)., or Clear Text, refers to the communication between a digital processing system (such as a computer or an embedded system), and the outside world – possibly a human, another processing system or a device.

Inputs are the signals or data received by the system, and outputs are the signals or data sent from it.

I/O devices are used by a person (or other system) to communicate with the digital processing system. For instance, keyboards and mice are considered input devices of a computer, while monitors and printers are considered output devices of a computer. Devices for communication between computers, such as modems and network cards, typically serve for both input and output.

Note that the description of a device as either input or output depends on how it is viewed. Mouses and keyboards take as input physical movement that the human user outputs and convert it into signals that a computer can understand. The output from these devices is input for the computer. Similarly, printers and monitors take as input signals that a computer outputs. They then convert these signals into representations that human users can see or read. (For a human user the process of reading or seeing these representations is receiving input.)

Computers only work with digital information, any input that a computer receives must be digitalised.

[[Instruction set]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

An instruction set, or instruction set architecture (ISA),  is a list of all the commands (instructions), with all their variations, that a processor can execute.

Instructions include:

Instruction set architecture is distinguished from microarchitecture. Microarchitecture is the detailed description of the system that is enough for completely describing the operation of all parts of the computing system, as well as how they are inter-connected and inter-operate to implement the ISA. An instruction set is the part of the computer architecture related to programming. An ISA includes a specification set of opcodes (machine language), which are the native commands implemented in a particular central processing unit design.

Computers with different microarchitectures can share a common instruction set. For example, the Intel Pentium and the AMD Athlon implement nearly identical versions of the x86 instruction set, but they are very different in internal designs.

[[Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh]]

CATEGORIES: Nationalist organizations in India, Hinduism, Politics of India, 1925 establishments in Asia, 1920s establishments in India

Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh is a Hindu nationalist organization in India. It was founded in 1925 by K.B. Hedgewar. The organization is accused of having fascist tendencies.

[[Power consumption]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Energy, Engineering

In electrical engineering, power consumption refers to the electrical energy per unit time, supplied to operate something, such as a home appliance. Power consumption is usually measured in units of watts (W) or kilowatts (kW).

The energy used by equipment is always more than the energy really needed. This is because no equipment is 100% efficient. Power is wasted as heat, vibrations and/or electromagnetic radiation. For example, a light bulb does not only convert electric power into light; it also makes some heat.

[[Hindutva]]

CATEGORIES: Nationalism, Hinduism

Hindutva, which means "Hinduness", is a kind of nationalism in India. The word was made popular by Vinayak Damodar Savarkar in 1923. Groups that believe in Hindutva include the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and the Sangh Parivar. Hindutva considers Hinduism better than other religions and cultures. Because of this, some people describe Hindutva as almost fascist, while others say that Hindutva is conservative.

[[Phetchabun]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Thailand

Phetchabun is a town in the northeastern and the central part of Thailand. 

It is about 12,668.416 in size. The distance from the east to the west is 55. The distance from the north to the south is 296. The height above sea level is 114. Phetchabun is 346 from Bangkok.

[[Very long instruction word]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Very Long Instruction Word or VLIW which refers to a CPU architecture designed to take advantage of instruction level parallelism (ILP) but at minimum level of hardware complexities. ( Alternatively, Variable Length Instruction Word or VLIW a refers to a CPU instruction (  instruction set ) designed to load ( or copy ) a literal value count of inline Machine code to the on-chip RAM for higher speed CPU decoding. )

A processor that executes every instruction one after the other (i.e. a non-pipelined scalar architecture) may use processor resources inefficiently, leading to poor performance. 

The performance can be improved by using micro-architectural design techniques that use ILP including:

All above ILP techniques are implemented at a higher cost with increased hardware complexity. Before executing any operations in-parallel, the processor must verify that the instructions do not have interdependencies. There are many types of interdependencies, but a simple example would be a program in which the first instruction's result is used as an input for the second instruction. They clearly cannot execute at the same time, and the second instruction cannot be executed before the first. Modern out-of-order processors use major resources in order to take advantage of these techniques, since the scheduling of instructions must be determined dynamically as a program executes based on dependencies.

The VLIW approach, on the other hand, executes operation in parallel based on a fixed schedule determined when programs are compiled. Since determining the order of execution of operations (including which operations can execute simultaneously) is handled by the compiler, the processor does not need the complex hardware required by ILP techniques described above. As a result, VLIW CPUs offer significant computational power with less hardware complexity but with greater compiler design complexity.

The VLIW approach is a concept which is only useful as the code generated by a compiler makes it, but with a number of special-purpose instructions available to simplify certain complicated operations:

[[Phetchabun Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Thailand

Phetchabun (เพชรบูรณ์) is one of the northern provinces (changwat) of Thailand. As of 2000, 965,784 people live there, and has an area of 12,668.4km². The Governor is Direk Thuengfang.

[[Goatse.cx]]

CATEGORIES: Shock sites, 1999 establishments, 2004 disestablishments, 2008 establishments

Goatse.cx (pronounced either "/goʊtsi: dɒt si: ɛks/" or "/goʊt sɛks/"; sometimes the top level domain is left out and it is just called "Goatse") was an Internet shock site. The page featured a picture, hello.jpg, showing an undressed man stretching his butt to a large size with both hands, with the inside of his rectum clearly visible. Below his gaping anus, his dangling penis and scrotum were visible, as well as a ring on the ring finger of his left hand.

The image hello.jpg comes from a set of forty pictures from a file named gap.zip. In those images, the man used sex toys and butt plugs to stretch his anus. The images were located by Stile Project and are also available from the "Contrib" section of the goatse.cx website under the filename gap.zip. hello.jpg is the third file in the archive, gap3.jpg.

[[Modesty]]

CATEGORIES: Culture, Clothing

Modesty (also called demureness or reticence) is the term for certain norms of behaviour, clothing and habits a society expects from its people. Excessive modesty is sometimes called prudery.

Modesty usually includes:

Different fashion trends test the levels of modesty. People are usually also subjected to peer pressure.

Different levels of modesty apply in different situations, and to different groups of people.

[[Minimal instruction set computer]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Minimal Instruction Set Computer (MISC) is a processor architecture with a very small number of basic instruction operations and corresponding opcodes.  As a result of this is a smaller instruction set, a smaller and faster instruction set decode unit, and faster operation of individual instructions.  The disadvantage is that smaller instruction set always have more sequential dependencies, reducing instruction-level parallelism.  

[[Zoophilia]]

CATEGORIES: Paraphilias

Zoophilia (or zoosexuality) is a type of paraphilia. People who have it feel sexually attracted to animals. These people are called zoophiles. Sexual activity with an animal is called bestiality. It is illegal in most countries. Most people think that zoophilia is wrong. Zoophilia is a mental disorder in the DSM.

[[Sukhoi Su-30]]

CATEGORIES: Military aircraft

Sukhoi Su-30 is a Russian fighter aircraft. It is developed by Sukhoi Aviation Corporation. It is a 4.5-generation jet fighter aircraft. The aircraft is used by these air forces:

[[One instruction set computer]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A One Instruction Set Computer (OISC) is an abstract computer that uses only one instruction (with no need for a machine language opcode). Such computers are the extreme case or the logical conclusion of Reduced instruction set computers, although the concept has been used only in academic circles, as a teaching aid like the URISC.

The Ultimate RISC (URISC) is the name given by researchers at the University of Waterloo in the city of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, to their implementation of a single-instruction computer. URISC allows complete description of a fully functional computer, in only a few pages. 

[[Zero instruction set computer]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science, ZISC stands for Zero Instruction Set Computer, which refers to a chip technology based on pure pattern matching and absence of micro-instructions. 

The name ZISC was derived from RISC.

[[Greco-Roman world]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Ancient Rome

The Greco-Roman or Graeco-Roman world, refers to geographical regions and countries who had the language, culture, government or religion of the ancient Greeks and Romans.

[[Peoples Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Murders, Suicide, Religious violence, Christianity in the United States, Religion in the United States, 1955 establishments in the United States

Peoples Temple was an organization founded in 1955 by Jim Jones that, by the mid-1970s, possessed over a dozen locations in California including its headquarters in San Francisco. It is best known for the death of over 900 of its members on November 18, 1978 in Guyana, at the Peoples Temple Agricultural Project (informally called "Jonestown"), a nearby airstrip at Port Kaituma, and Georgetown.

[[Lotus (genus)]]

CATEGORIES: Faboideae

Lotus is a genus of the Pea family. This genus includes 125-180 species. 

[[Regina Spektor]]

CATEGORIES: American pianists, American guitarists, Singer-songwriters from New York, Singers from New York City, Musicians from New York City, Russian singers, Russian musicians, 1980 births, Living people

Regina Spektor (b. February 18, 1980) is a Russian-American singer-songwriter and pianist.  She was born in Moscow, Russia, but moved to The Bronx in New York City as a child.

She has released six studio albums. She released her first album 11:11 in 2001. In 2002 she released her second album Songs. Spektor's third album Soviet Kitsch was her first album to be released on a record label. Three singles were released from the album. In 2009 Spektor released her fourth album Far. What We Saw from the Cheap Seats was released in 2012. 

She usually sings in English but has used other languages in her songs including Latin, French, and Russian.

Spektor sings the theme song of Orange is the New Black, "You've Got Time". The song was nominated for the award for Best Song Written for Visual Media at the 2013 Grammy Awards.

[[Micro-operation]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In microarchitecture micro-operations (sometimes termed: micro-instructions, also known as micro-ops or μops), are detailed low-level instructions used in some designs to implement complex machine instructions in which each instruction is composed of a set of low-level micro-ops.

[[Bulldog]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The bulldog, known as the British Bulldog or English Bulldog, is a medium-size breed of dog from England.

[[Languages of Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Asia, Languages of Iran

There are dozens of languages spoken in Iran. The following are the languages with the greatest number of speakers (Data from the CIA World Factbook):

[[Defecation]]

CATEGORIES: Digestive system

Defecation is the scientific name for the final stage of digestion, which is the act of taking away solid, semisolid or liquid waste from the body, known as "Faeces (American spelling, Feces)". Faeces is the scientific name for poop. 

[[Flag of Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Turkey

The flag of Turkey (Türk bayrağı) has a white crescent moon and a star on a red background. The flag is called Ay Yıldız (literally, moon star) or Alsancak (red banner) in Turkish. 

The flag has a complex origin since it is an ancient design, and uses the same symbols of the late flag of the Ottoman Empire which was adopted in 1844 with the Tanzimat reforms; though the shape, placement and shade of the color varies. The geometric proportions of the flag were legally standardized with the Turkish Flag Law in 1936. The shade of red used in the flag is approximated by Pantone 186, or RGB (227, 10, 23).

[[Flag of Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Saudi Arabia

The flag of Saudi Arabia is the flag used by the government of Saudi Arabia since March 15, 1973. It is a green flag featuring in white an Arabic inscription and a sword. 

The script on the flag is written in the Thuluth script. It is the shahadah or Islamic declaration of faith: 

The sword, symbolizes the importance of the inscription by underlining it.

Green flags with this or other Arabic scripts are commonly seen in Islam. They should not be confused with the Saudi national flag. These other flags normally do not have the sword symbol. 

The flag is made so that the shahada reads correctly, from right to left, from either side. The sword points from hoist to fly on both sides. The flag is sinister hoisted. This means that the obverse side (front) has the hoist side (flagpole side) to the right.

[[Coat of arms of Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: Saudi Arabia, National coats of arms

The Saudi Arabian coat of arms (شعار السعودية) is a coat of arms that was adopted in 1950. According to the Saudi Constitution it is made of of two crossed swords with a palm tree in the open upper space between the blades. Each of the swords represents the two kingdoms which founded modern day Saudi Arabia, the Kingdom of Hejaz and the Sultanate of Najd.

The date palm tree represents vitality and growth.

The crossed scimitars symbolize justice and strength rooted in faith.

[[Child pornography]]

CATEGORIES: Child sexual abuse, Pornography

Child pornography is pornography that exploits children. It is against the law in many countries. Child pornography is most often made by taking pictures or videos, or more rarely sound recordings, of children who are wearing less clothing than usual, wearing no clothing, or being raped. It can also be made using illustrations of children. Child pornography is sometimes called "child sexual abuse images" because it is images (pictures) of a child who is being sexually abused. Child pornography can be made by setting up a camera or other recording device and molesting a child.  

Child pornography can also be drawn, written, or created by a computer. In that case, it is called "simulated child pornography", "virtual child pornography", "non-photographic child pornography", or "pseudo-photographic child pornography": the child in the pornography is simulated, virtual, or drawn, meaning the child is not real. 

There are several possible reasons for a person to look at child pornography. The most common is that the viewer is a pedophile, hebephile, or ephebophile who finds minors sexually attractive and uses pornography featuring minors to induce arousal. Viewers may be curious about the subject. Or a person who plans to commit statutory rape may plan to show the pornography to a minor as a form of grooming to convince the minor that minors having sex with adults is normal. Mexico is the largest distributor of child pornography in the world.

[[Felching]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts

Felching is a human sexual practice in which one person sucks semen or other fluids out of the vagina or anus of a another person. The acts of sucking the semen and then passing it from the mouth of one person to a third person is called snowballing. However, snowballing usually relates to semen ejaculated in the mouth following fellatio.

Felching can also mean the licking or sucking of another person's anus, similar to the act of a rimjob (analingus).

[[Hawk Nelson]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian rock bands, Canadian punk bands, Pop punk bands, Christian music bands, Musical groups established in 2003, 2003 establishments in Canada

Hawk Nelson is a Christian rock band from Peterborough, Ontario, Canada. The band was started in 2003. The band has released three albums and several EPs. Their latest album is Hawk Nelson Is My Friend. 

As a band Hawk Nelson have toured much. In the spring of 2008, they were the main band on the Green T-tour along with the bands Capital Lights and Run Kid Run.

Hawk Nelson played music without help when they first started. They later signed to the record label Tooth & Nail Records. The band became quite popular in their music scene and have some charted singles.

A good amount of their music was made with help from Trevor McNevan from Fm static

[[Child prostitution]]

CATEGORIES: Child sexual abuse, Prostitution, Child labour

Child prostitution is prostitution involving children. They are children who get paid for sex acts. Sometimes, the children do not get paid with money, but they are given other things in exchange for having sex such as toys. Sometimes, the child isn't paid with anything at all and is being forced to be a prostitute by an abuser. The meaning of "child prostitute" varies. In most cases, it is not the child who makes money from the prostitution, but another person. This is either a pimp, or someone who directly abuses the child. This person will make a deal directly with the child to get sexual gratification. Different people may also exchange children to have sex with. 

The Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (Convention No 182) of the International Labour Organization (ILO) provides that the use, procuring or offering of a child for prostitution is one of the worst forms of child labor. This convention from 1999, provides that countries that have signed it must get rid of child prostitution s soon as possible. It has the fastest pace of ratifications in the ILO's history since 1919.

The prostitution of children is seen as part of the commercial sexual exploitation of children (CSEC), and is sometimes connected to the trafficking of children for sexual purposes, and to child pornography. Child sex tourism also falls within the category of the prostitution of children.

[[Hawk Nelson Is My Friend]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Hawk Nelson albums

Hawk Nelson is my Friend is an album by Christian rock band Hawk Nelson. It was released on April 1, 2008.

The title was taken because they find it funnyApril 2009 - some people still think of Hawk Nelson as a person instead of a band. It was also chosen because, Hawk Nelson like to connect with fans, and make friends with them.

[[Child grooming]]

CATEGORIES: Child sexual abuse

Child grooming is a term which describes the following situation. When an adult becomes friends with a child, this is sometimes done for a reason. The reason is to lower the inhibitions of the child and to prepare for sexual abuse. So, action taken by an adult to form a trusting relationship with a child, with the intent of later having sexual contact, is 'child grooming'.

The act of grooming a child may include activities that are legal, but later lead to sexual contact. The grooming is done to gain the child's trust, and the trust of those responsible for the child. Children are less likely to report a crime if it involves someone the child knows, trusts, and cares about. Also, a relationship with the family means the child's parents will be less likely to believe any accusations.

[[Cynic]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

The Cynics (Κυνικοί, Cynici) were an important group of philosophers from the ancient school of Cynicism. Their philosophy taught that the purpose of life was to live a life of Virtue in agreement with Nature.  This meant rejecting all the usual desires for wealth, power, health, and fame, and by living a life free from all possessions. People are reasoning creatures. They could therefore gain happiness by rigorous training and by living in a way which was natural for humans. They believed that the world belonged equally to everyone, and that suffering was caused by false judgments of what was valuable and by the worthless customs and conventions which surrounded society. Many of these thoughts were later absorbed into Stoicism.

The first philosopher to outline these themes was Antisthenes, who had been a pupil of Socrates in the late 5th century BCE. He was followed by Diogenes of Sinope, who lived in a tub on the streets of Athens, took Cynicism to its logical extremes, and came to be seen as the archetypal Cynic philosopher. He was followed by Crates of Thebes who gave away a large fortune so he could live a life of Cynic poverty in Athens. Cynicism spread with the rise of Imperial Rome in the 1st century, and Cynics could be found begging and preaching throughout the cities of the Empire. It finally disappeared in the late 5th century, although many of its ascetic and rhetorical ideas were adopted by early Christians.

[[Botanical Garden of Curitiba]]

CATEGORIES: Botanical gardens, Curitiba, 1991 establishments in South America, 1990s establishments in Brazil

The Botanical Garden of Curitiba (Jardim Botânico de Curitiba) - also known as the "Jardim Botânico Fanchette Rischbieter" - is in the Jardim Botânico district in the city of Curitiba, the capital of the state of Paraná, the biggest city of southern Brazil.

It is the major tourist attraction of the city. In 2007, it was the most voted place in an online election to choose the "Seven Wonders of Brazil". The botanical garden houses part of the campus of the Federal University of Paraná. It is the unofficial symbol of the city and of all South Brazil.

The international identification code is CURIT.

[[Samekh]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Samekh or Simketh is the fifteenth letter in many Semitic alphabets, including Phoenician, Hebrew, and Aramaic, representing /s/.

The Phoenician letter is where the Greek Xi (Ξ, ξ) comes from.

[[Aleph]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Aleph is the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet.

[[Mem]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Mem is the thirteenth letter of the Hebrew alphabet.

[[Nun (letter)]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Nun is the fourteenth letter of the Hebrew alphabet.

[[Yodh]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Yodh (also spelled Yod, or Yud) is the tenth  letter from Masha and the Bear and of the Hebrew alphabet.

[[Thee Michelle Gun Elephant]]

CATEGORIES: Punk bands, Japanese rock bands

Thee Michelle Gun Elephant (or TMGE) was a Japanese punk band. The band was started in 1991 when the members were students at a university near Tokyo. They released their first big label album in 1995. TMGE has released a total of 16 singles and 8 albums. In October 2003, the band said they were breaking up. 

[[List of Shahrukh Khan's awards and nominations]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of awards and nominations, Indian actors

This page is an incomplete list of awards and nominations of Shahrukh Khan, an Indian actor. He has won 14 Filmfare Awards, 9 Star Screen Awards, 3 IIFA Awards, 8 Zee Cine Awards, 3 Bollywood Movie Awards, 2 Global Indian Film Awards & many other awards. He also has won all the Best Actor Awards at Star's Sabsey Favourite Kaun Awards. He was also honoured Rajiv Gandhi Award for Excellence in the Field of Entertainment in 2002 & Padma Shri, India's fourth highest civilian award from the Government of India in 2005.

[[Gauri Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Indian movie producers, People from New Delhi

Gauri Khan (गौरी ख़ान) (née Chibber, born 8 October 1970) is an Indian movie producer. A Hindu of Punjabi Mohyal origin, born in New Delhi, India.  She graduated from Modern School, New Delhi and has a degree in History from Lady Sriram College. She is married to Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan. She has produced some of the movies with her husband as the main actor, including Paheli (an unsuccessful  Indian submission to the Oscars in 2005), Main Hoon Na, and Om Shanti Om. She also made a short guest appearance in Om Shanti Om.

She used to host a weekly Hindi music countdown show, "Oye", for a music channel in the 1990s. She is the face of the fashion line, Aftershock.  She was on the January 2008 cover of the Indian edition of Vogue magazine.

Together with Shahrukh Khan, Gauri is part-owner and part-producer of the production company, Red Chillies Entertainment (RCE). Shah Rukh started the company for his friend and colleague, director-choreographer Farah Khan. With the backing of RCE, Farah launched her directorial career with the movie, Main Hoon Na (2004).

Gauri has three children: Aryan Khan born 12 November 1997, Suhana Khan born 23 May 2000 and AbRam Khan born in 2013.

She was also crowned the queen of Bollywood at the Zee Cine Awards in 2008.

[[Computer performance]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Computer performance is the amount of useful work that a computer system can perform compared to the time it takes to perform this work. Less time and fast response time mean higher performance.

[[Chittagong Hill Tracts]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bangladesh, Chittagong Hill Tracts

The Chittagong Hill Tracts (Bengali:পার্বত্য চট্টগ্রাম), (Parbotto Chôṭṭogram) comprise an area of 13,189 km2 in south-eastern Bangladesh. The area forms the border of Bangladesh with the Republic of India and Burma. It was a single district of East Pakistan till 1971. In that year it was divided into three separate districts: Khagrachari, Rangamati and Bandarban. Topographically, this is the only hill intensive area of the People's Republic. With a population of Around 800,000 Indigenous peoples (Native (non-Bengali). The Chittagong Hill Tracts is one of the most diverse regions in the country in terms of geography, ethnicity, culture and traditions of the people. The indigenous distinct Jumma people are distinct and different from the majority Bengali people of present-day Bangla-desh in respect of race, language, culture, heritage, religion, political history and economy.

When India was split into two separate countries in 1948, the Radcliffe Line gave this area to East Pakistan (Bangladesh), which was mostly Muslim, even though most people in the area were Buddhists. Today most people are Buddhist, some Christians and animists. The major ethnic groups among 13 peoples are the Chakma, Tipra, Murong and Magh, Marma, Tanchangya, Mro, Lushai, Khumi, Chak, Khiyang, Bawm, Pangkhua and with the Ten indigenous languages. Beside, a very small number of descendants of Ahamiya, Gorkha and Santal also live there. They collectively identify themselves as the Jumma people (High Landers), the first people of the CHT.but almost 50% of the present day's population are immigrated Bengali Muslim settlers. Since the Independence of Bangla-Desh the indigenous population was faced with increasing immigration of settlers from the mainland, fostered by the central nationalist government. Among the tribal nations first political and civil, later (since the 1980s) armed resistance was organised, especially by the Shanti Bahini guerrilla movement. In reaction the whole region was heavily militarised and the police and army unleashed a wide spread repression with a serious human rights violations. The 5-points-manifesto of the Jana Samhati Samiti, released on 7 September 1987, was focused on a well entrenched Autonomy:

On 2 December 1997 a "Peace agreement" was signed by the government and Parvatya Chattagram Jana Samhati Samiti, the political platform of the indigenous peoples, granting a limited level of autonomy to three districts of CHT. The Jana Samhati Samiti transformed into a party, but this treaty has never been implemented, as it was opposed by both the opposition parties of Bangla Desh and by the majority fraction of the Shanti Bahini. The previous nationalists Bangla Desh government of Khaleda Zia promised to re-launch the peace process, but until now did not accomplish with its promises.

[[Trusted third party]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, a trusted third party (TTP) is an entity which makes interactions between two parties easy. Both parties must trust the third party; they use this trust to secure their own interactions.

TTPs are commonly used by cryptosystems.

[[Needham-Schroeder protocol]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

The term Needham-Schroeder protocol can refer to one of two communication protocols intended for use over an insecure network, both protocols designed by Roger Needham and Michael Schroeder. 

The two protocols are:

[[Kerberos (protocol)]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography, Authentication methods

Kerberos (pronounced /ˈkɜrbərəs/ "kur-ber-uhs") is a computer network authentication protocol, which allows people communicating over a non-secure network to prove their identity to one another in a secure manner. It is also a suite of free software published by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) that implements this protocol. Its designers aimed primarily at a client-server model, and it provides mutual authentication — both the user and the server verify each other's identity. Kerberos protocol messages are protected against spying and replay attacks.

Kerberos performs authentication as a trusted third party authentication service by using cryptographic shared secret under the assumption that packets traveling along the insecure network can be read, modified, and inserted. Kerberos builds on symmetric-key cryptography and requires a key distribution center. Extensions to Kerberos can provide for the use of public-key cryptography during certain phases of authentication.

[[Key distribution center]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking, Cryptography

In cryptography, a key distribution center (KDC) is part of a cryptosystem intended to minimize the risks of exchanging keys and shared secrets.

KDCs often operate in systems when some users may have permission to use certain resources at some times but not at any times.

[[Alonzo Church]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1995 deaths, American mathematicians, Scientists from Washington, D.C.

Alonzo Church (June 14, 1903 – August 11, 1995) was an American mathematician and logician who made major contributions to mathematical logic and the foundations of theoretical computer science. He is best known for the lambda calculus, Church's thesis and the Church-Rosser theorem.

[[Software suite]]

CATEGORIES: Terminology

A software suite or application suite, is a collection of computer programs —usually application software or programming software— of related functionality, often sharing a more-or-less common user interface and some ability to smoothly exchange data with each other. .

Sometimes software "suites" are at a lower price than buying each of "suite" programs.

[[Ayin]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Ayin is the sixteenth letter of the Hebrew alphabet.

[[Dalet]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Dalet (also spelled sem or Daleth) is the fourth letter of the Hebrew alphabet. In set theory, mathematicians originally intended to use daleth to represent the fourth transfinite cardinal numbers. The name "dalet" is connected to the word "delet", meaning "door". It also corresponds to the letter "delta" in the Greek alphabet.

[[Bet (letter)]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Bet, Beth, or Vet is the second letter of the Hebrew alphabet. It is represented by "ב".

The Hebrew alphabet is often called "aleph-bet", because of its first two letters.

[[Gimel]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Gimel is the third letter of the Hebrew alphabet.

The Phoenician letter gave rise to the Greek gamma (Γ), the Latin C, G and F, and the Cyrillic Г.

[[He (letter)]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

He is the fifth letter of the Hebrew alphabet.

[[Waw (letter)]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Waw (sem, also spelled vav or vau) (Vav) is the sixth letter of the Hebrew alphabet. Its symbol in Ancient Hebrew writing is a arm raised up. Its symbol in Modern Hebrew writing today is a line going from top to bottom. It makes the sounds of many letters.

[[Pornographic movie actor]]

CATEGORIES: Pornographic actors

A pornographic actor/actress or a porn star is somebody who appears in pornographic movies.

Jenna Jameson, Ron Jeremy, Marilyn Chambers and Linda Lovelace are some famous porn stars.

 :

[[Friend Like That]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs

Friend Like That is a Pop punk song released by the band Hawk Nelson. Made available on Christmas Eve on iTunes and other websites.

It's a song with simplicity and slightly silly but meaningful lyrics and the second song you will hear from their new album.

[[Nonviolence]]

CATEGORIES: Virtues, Ethics, Civil disobedience, Nonviolence advocates

Nonviolence is a philosophy that rejects the use of physical violence. People who practice nonviolence when expressing their beliefs may use methods like education, persuasion, civil disobedience, and conscientous objection to military service. 

A demonstration  by a group of people in a public place, to show their support or to protest, is permitted on the condition that it remain nonviolent. Sometimes the demonstrators are nonviolent but other people who oppose them will come to the demonstration and behave violently to show their opposition.

Some religious movements, such as the Society of Friends (Quakers) and Jainism with Ahimsa, are known for the practice of nonviolence. There are people who adopt nonviolence in midlife, such as St. Francis of Assisi. 

People who eat a vegetarian or vegan diet, and those who support animal rights, usually oppose any violence by humans against animals.

[[Abolitionism]]

CATEGORIES: History, Political movements, Libertarianism, Slavery, African-American history

Abolitionism was a movement that wanted to end the practice of slavery in Europe and in America. It was mainly active during the 18th and 19th centuries.  Until the 18th century, few people criticized slavery. But thinkers of the Enlightenment started to criticize it, because in their opinion slavery was against human rights. Communities like the Quakers thought that slavery was contradicting with Christianity.

[[The Outsiders (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: Young adult novels, 1967 books, American novels

The Outsiders is a novel by S. E. Hinton, first published in 1967 by Viking Press. Hinton was 15 when she began writing the novel and 17 when it was published. The Outsiders is the lifestory of fourteen-year-old Ponyboy Michael Curtis. Hinton explores a multitude of themes throughout the story, such as friendship, and coming of age. They are seen by following two rival groups, the Greasers and the Socs (pronounced "soashes" by the author, short for Socials), who are separated by status.

The book's story is set in Tulsa, Oklahoma. This is never said in the book. The book was made into a movie in 1983. It was also made into a television series in 1990.

[[Civil disobedience]]

CATEGORIES: Civil disobedience

thumb|180px|right|Rosa Parks in 1955. She became famous for refusing to obey set regulations. Her individual action of civil disobedience started the Montgomery Bus Boycott, which is one of the largest movements against racial segregation. In addition, this launched Martin Luther King, Jr., who was involved with the boycott, to prominence in the civil rights movementCivil disobedience is the active refusal to obey certain laws, demands and commands of a government, or of an occupying power, without resorting to physical violence. It is one of the primary tactics of nonviolent resistance.

The American author Henry David Thoreau pioneered the modern theory behind this practice in his 1849 essay Civil Disobedience, originally titled "Resistance to Civil Government".

Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (also known as Mahatma Gandhi) used non-violent civil disobedience in South Africa in a campaign for civil rights for the people who came from India and lived in South Africa. This campaign was from 1893-1914.  When Gandhi returned to India, he used civil disobedience in the campaign for the independence of India in 1930 from the British rule, when India was a British colony.

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr, and young activists in the American Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s also adopted civil disobedience techniques,  during and after the Vietnam War.

[[Henry David Thoreau]]

CATEGORIES: 1817 births, 1862 deaths, 19th century philosophers, American anarchists, American poets, Civil disobedience, Green anarchism, Green thinkers, Libertarians, Writers from Massachusetts

[[Saying Sorry]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs

Saying Sorry is a song by Hawthorne Heights released in 2006 from their second album, If Only You Were Lonely. It was their first single to reach the Top 10.

While in the music video the band all wears white, it can also be seen on the back of the album cover.

[[Love Parade]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in Germany, 2010 disestablishments in Europe, Festivals in Europe, Music festivals, 2010s disestablishments in Germany

The Love Parade was a big festival centered around Techno music in Germany. Trucks with loudspeakers and deejays played loud music and passersby danced to it. The festival began in Berlin in 1989. It had been held most years in different locations. In 2004 and 2005, there were no Love Parades. The first Love Parade was held with about 150 people in 1989. In 1999, there were about 1.5 million people. In 2007, there were 1.2 million people and in 2008, there were 1.6 million people. The last Love Parade was held in 2010, at which 21 people were crushed to death.

[[The Silence in Black and White]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Debut albums, Hawthorne Heights albums, Punk albums

The Silence in Black and White is the first album released by Hawthorne Heights. it was released on June 1, 2004. It was released by Victory Records. On Monday, June 27, 2005 the 2 disc special edition CD/DVD was released. The CD contains acoustic versions of most of the songs. It also contains a DVD containing live performances and many other features. It was produced by Sean O'Keefe. The album takes its title from a line in the song Niki Fm. The Silence in Black and White has sold 816,483 in the United States, according to Nielsen SoundScan.

[[The Gamblers]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 drama movies, German-language movies, German drama movies

The Gamblers is a German drama movie directed and written by Sebastian Bieniek. The movie was first released on June 20, 2007 in Shanghai.

[[Maleeha Lodhi]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani people

Dr. Maleeha Lodhi, HI, is a journalist, academic, and diplomat from Pakistan. Till recently, she was the high commissioner of Pakistan to the United Kingdom.  She was ambassador from Pakistan to the United States from 1994-1997 and 1999-2002.

At present she is a Fellow at the Institute of Politics, Kennedy School, Harvard University. She has also been a member of the United Nations Secretary-General’s Advisory Board on Disarmament.

[[Naturism]]

CATEGORIES: Nudity

Naturism or nudism (from Latin nudus - nude) is a term used by many action groups in society. These action groups usually want to spread the news that being naked is a good feeling, even around other people. Usually   males and females are mixed and spend their time together.  Nakedness is seen without any relation to sex. Rather, these action groups want to enjoy common activities in the nude, like bathing. Often, they also want to do things nude where this is not really necessary, like naked bicycle tours.

It is difficult to know exactly when naturism began as an action group. In 1903, Paul Zimmermann opened the first club, Freilichtpark (in English, "Free Light Park"), near Hamburg, Germany. In the United States, German immigrant Kurt Barthel organized the first nudist event in the forest just outside of New York City. His club was called "the American League for Physical Culture" (ALPC) and started in the late 1920's. Zimmermann's vice president was a man named Ilsley Boone. Boone had been a minister (religious leader) of a large church. He quit to become involved with naturism all the time, and soon replaced Zimmermann as president. Also, he renamed the ALPC as the "American Sunbathing Association." Since 1995, it is known as the "American Association for Nude Recreation (AANR)."

Naturists come from many different social classes and backgrounds, and practice naturism for very different reasons. In addition, religion can affect how people dress. Islam generally does not allow anyone to be seen naked by others, except married couples in private, and young children by their parents and caregivers. Traditional Judaism is similar, but less strict about a group of people of the same sex. In India, Hinduism and Jainism have a few rituals with male nudism. Buddhism has little to say about naturism. If practiced, it is considered more of a way of living, than anything religious. Nudity and naturism are probably the most complicated in Christianity. Many Christians have similar views as those of traditional Judaism, the religion from which Christianity began and grew out of. Others, called "Christian naturists," believe it is alright to be nude, and even to live nude, unless it is for the wrong reason or forced. They consider the human body  to be the greatest creation of God. They think it is not shameful and should not be covered. In addition, they believe it was the devil, not God, who told Adam and Eve that they were naked upon eating from a fruit tree which was not theirs.

[[Mediterranean region]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Africa, Regions of Asia, Regions of Europe

The Mediterranean region is the region surrounding the Mediterranean Sea. This includes places from Europe and Africa and Asia. Most of the region has a Mediterranean climate with warm to hot dry summers and cool to mild wet winters. Plants that grow there are short trees and shrubs which survive the yearly drought during summer. It is a popular vacation spot.

[[Turkic languages]]

CATEGORIES: Turkic languages

The Turkic languages are a language family of some thirty languages. They are spoken by Turkic peoples across an area from Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean to Siberia and Western and Northern China. Traditionally people think that they are part of the Altaic language family.

Turkic languages are spoken by some 180 million people as a native language; and the total number of Turkic speakers is about 200 million, including speakers as a second language. The Turkic language with the greatest number of speakers is Turkish proper, or Anatolian Turkish. The speakers of this language are about 40% of all Turkic speakers.

[[Pierre de Coubertin]]

CATEGORIES: 1863 births, 1937 deaths, French historians, Teachers, Presidents of the International Olympic Committee

Pierre de Frédy, Baron de Coubertin (pjɛʁ də kubɛʁtɛ̃; 1 January 1863 – 2 September 1937) was a French teacher and historian. He was very interested in physical education and he loved the idea of a gymnasium as the ancient Greeks had, were young and old learned and sported together. He is the founder of the International Olympic Committee.

[[Chamonix]]

CATEGORIES: Chamonix, Olympic cities

Chamonix is a French commune next to Mont Blanc. It is in the Haute-Savoie department. The Winter Olympic Games were there in 1924.

[[Albertville]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Savoie, Olympic cities, Subprefectures in France

Albertville is a French commune in the Savoie department. Its population is about 17,300 (1999 census). The commune hosted the Winter Olympic Games in 1992.

[[Shin (letter)]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Shin is the twenty-first letter in the Hebrew alphabet.

[[Lamedh]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Lamed or Lamedh is the twelfth letter in the Hebrew alphabet.

[[Kansas Turnpike]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in the United States, Kansas

The Kansas Turnpike is a road in Kansas, part of the United States. The road is a turnpike—a payment must be made to use it. The road is 236 miles, or 380 kilometers, long. It starts at the line between Kansas and Oklahoma, and goes to Kansas City. It runs through many important cities in Kansas, including Wichita, Topeka, Lawrence, and Kansas City. The Kansas Turnpike is owned and repaired by the Kansas Turnpike Authority (KTA), which is based in Wichita.

The Kansas Turnpike was built between 1954 and 1956. It was built before the Interstate Highway System. The turnpike was not part of the Interstate System at first. However, it became part of the system in 1956. Parts of the turnpike also are parts of four Interstate Highways: I-35, I-335, I-470, and I-70.

Around 120,000 people use the Kansas Turnpike every day. KTA helps users by running a radio station about the road. It has also built places called service areas where people can stop and rest, and buy gasoline and things to eat. One service area has a memorial to American football coach Knute Rockne, who died near the turnpike.

The Kansas Turnpike Authority does not need tax money to pay for repairs to the road. The payments from users are used to pay for the repairs instead.

[[Calvin Klein]]

CATEGORIES: American clothing companies, Fashion houses, Companies based in New York City, 1968 establishments in New York (state)

Calvin Klein Inc. is an American fashion brand founded in 1968 by Calvin Klein.

[[Merrie Melodies]]

CATEGORIES: Looney Tunes, Animated movies, 1931 establishments, 1969 disestablishments

Merrie Melodies is the name of a series of animated cartoons distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures between 1931 and 1969. The sister series to Warner's Looney Tunes, Merrie Melodies were originally one-shot musical cartoon shorts before gradually featuring recurring characters. 

By 1944, no distinctions existed between the two series.

Originally produced by Harman-Ising Pictures, Merrie Melodies were produced by Leon Schlesinger Productions from 1933 to 1944. Schlesinger sold his studio to Warner Bros. in 1944, and the newly renamed Warner Bros. Cartoons continued production until 1963, What's Up Doc? (1950)

[[John Dewey]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 births, 1952 deaths, 20th century philosophers, American psychologists, People from Burlington, Vermont, Scientists from Vermont

John Dewey (born 20 October 1859) was an American psychologist and philosopher. He was born in Burlington, Vermont. Dewey graduated from the University of Vermont. He later taught at many schools. In September 1882, Dewey went to the Johns Hopkins University and studied philosophy and psychology and published the paper, "The New Psychology" in the Andover Review in 1884.  Afterwards, he taught psychology at universities and later on, got married to his former student Alice Chipman.  In 1886, he started a new school which came to be known as the "Laboratory School" or "Dewey School".  This school taught pragmatism, which says that a school's curriculum should be based on everyday life, lessons, and focuses on hands-on activities to better help students learn. His wife Alice was principal of the "Dewey School" from 1901 to 1904.  After he retired as a teacher, he continued watching and figuring the society and politics.  John Dewey died in 1952.

[[Subscript and superscript]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems

Subscript is the text which a small letter/number is written after a particular letter/number. It hangs below its letter or number. It is used when writing chemical compounds. An example of subscript is N2.

Superscript is the small letter / number above a particular letter / number. An example of superscript is 25. The number 5 above the number 2 is an example of superscript. Superscript can be used for exponents in mathematics.

[[The Middle]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 songs

"The Middle" is a 2001 song released by Jimmy Eat World from their album, Bleed American. It is the third song from their album.

The song is not what is usually heard from the band. It is one of the more straightforward, upbeat songs, its also one of their most well-known singles.

There is electric guitar, drums and vocals used in this song, typical for a punk/rock song.

[[Bleed American]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums

Bleed American is the fourth album released by Jimmy Eat World and was made available in 2001. They had to change the title in stores to Salt Sweat Sugar because they were scared Bleed American would be taken the wrong way, possibly in an offensive way due to the September 11 attacks.

[[Blackpool tramway]]

CATEGORIES: Lancashire, Tram transport in the United Kingdom, 1885 establishments in England

The Blackpool tramway is a tramway that runs from Blackpool to Fleetwood, on the Fylde Coast in Lancashire, England. The tramway was built in 1885. It is one of the oldest electric tramways in the world and is the only one of the earliest tramways that is still in operation in the United Kingdom.

The tramway is owned by Blackpool Borough Council and is run by Blackpool Transport as part of the Metro Coastlines network.  The tramway runs for 11, and over 6,500,000 people travel on it each year.

[[Ancient Church of the East]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Christian denominations

The Ancient Church of the East is an Assyrian church.

The church separated from the Assyrian Church of the East. This happened because Mar Shimun XXIII, the patriarch of Assyrian Church of the East introduced reforms which were not supported.  These reforms included changes such as those of using the new Roman calendar rather than the old calendar.  The people who did not support the changes thought they were opposed to the sanctity of being one of the oldest Christian churches in the world. For this reason, the followers of the Ancient Church of the East resisted the changes made to the church. Mar Thoma Darmo, a native of Mesopotamia, who was Metropolitan of the Assyrian Church of the East in India from 1952 to 1968, based at Trichur separated from the Assyrian Church of the East. He became the head of the Ancient Church of the East in October 1968 and moved to Baghdad. He died the following year. After his death, Mar Addai II was elected to replace him.

Since January 2011 the synod of the Ancient Church of the East has split between those accepting the Patriarchate of Mar Addai II and those Old Calendarists rejecting it. 

[[Territorial collectivity]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of France

A Territorial collectivity (collectivité territoriale or sometimes called collectivité locale) in the France, is a name for all dependent areas. They have an elected local government and (per article #72 of the French constitution) a "certain freedom of administration". In 2018 Corsica became the first collectivité territoriale in metropolitan France followed in 2021 by the European Collectivity of Alsace.

[[Cleartext]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In telecommunications, cleartext is the form of a message or data which is in a form that is immediately understandable to a human being without additional processing. In particular, it implies that this message is sent or stored without cryptographic protection. The phrases, "in clear", "en clair" and "in the clear" are the same. 

It is close to, but not entirely the same as, the term "plaintext". Formally, plaintext is information that is fed as an input to a coding process, while  ciphertext is what comes out of that process.  Plaintext might be compressed, coded, or otherwise changed before it is converted to ciphertext, so it is quite common to find plaintext that is not cleartext.

Websites using insecure HTTP send using cleartext, with all data supplied (including usernames and passwords) being sent from the user's computer through the internet using cleartext. Anyone with access to the medium used to carry the data (the routers, computers, telecommunications equipment, wireless transmissions, and so on) may read the password, username, and anything else sent to the website.

[[Print server]]

CATEGORIES: Servers, Computer networking

A print server, or printer server, is a computer or device that is connected to one or more printers and to a network. It accepts print jobs from client computers, then prints the jobs on the requested printer.

The term can refer to:

[[Network Time Protocol]]

CATEGORIES: Internet protocols

The Network Time Protocol (NTP) is a protocol for distributing the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) by synchronizing the clocks of computer systems over IP networks. 

NTP is one of the oldest Internet Protocols still in use (since before 1985) and uses UDP port 123. 

[[Project Athena]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Project Athena was a joint project of MIT, Digital Equipment Corporation, and IBM.  It was launched in 1983, and research and development continued until June 30, 1991, eight years after it began. It is widely believed that the goals were to create a computing environment that would utilize up to 1,000 workstations but in fact, the goal was to improve the quality of education delivered by the Institute.

The concept that a user could go to any workstation and access any files or applications without finding major differences in the user interface and service, just like browsing the Internet today.

The project created  many technologies that are widely used today, such as the X Window System and Kerberos.

[[Session key]]

CATEGORIES: cryptography

A session key is a single-use symmetric key used for encrypting all messages in one communication session. A closely related term is traffic encryption key or TEK, which refers to any symmetric key that is used to encrypt traffic messages. Typically TEKs are changed frequently, in some systems daily and in others for every message.

Session keys introduce complexities in a cryptosystem. However, they also help with some real problems, which is why they are used. There are two primary reasons for using session keys:

Like all cryptographic keys, session keys must be chosen so that they are unpredictable by an attacker. In the usual case, this means that they must be chosen randomly. Failure to choose session keys (or any key) properly is a major drawback in any cryptosystem. 

[[The Kite Runner]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 books, Kabul, Rape in fiction

The Kite Runner is a 2003 book written by Afghan-American Khaled Hosseini.

In The Kite Runner, Amir and Hassan grow up together in Afghanistan like brothers, although they could not be more different. Amir is the son of a rich  businessman, a Sunni Muslim, a Pashtun. He is educated and loves to read and write. Hassan's father Ali is a servant to Amir's father. Hassan is a Sh'ia Muslim and a Hazara. He can not read and has a harelip. Neither boy has a mother, although Baba's friend, Rahim Kahn, has a close friendship with Amir. They spend their boyhoods roaming the streets of Kabul together. Amir is a selfish friend to Hassan, who is devoted and loyal to Amir. One day, he hides in fear as Hassan is beaten and raped by three bullies, led by a boy called Assef, when Hassan refuses to give them a kite that he found for Amir. After this, he cannot bear to talk to Hassan and pretends to his father that Hassan stole his watch so that Hassan will be sent away. Although his father forgives Hassan, Ali and Hassan decide to leave.  The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan sends Amir and his father escaping to the United States, because Amir's father has been known to curse the Communists and had a strong admiration on Ronald Reagan. Amir is called back to Afghanistan, by a terminally ill Rahim Kahn, as an adult during the Taliban rule to rescue Hassan's son Sohrab, when Rahim tells him that he and Hassan are actually half-brothers because his father secretly had sex with Hassan's mother. When rescuing Sohrab, Amir has to confront Assef who is now a leader of the Taliban. He gets severely beaten by Assef and Sohrab eventually saves him by firing a slingshot at Assef's eye. He goes home with Amir to live with him and his wife Soraya, but does not talk or play. Eventually, Amir gets Sohrab to smile when he teaches him to fly a kite.

[[Combined oral contraceptive pill]]

CATEGORIES: Contraception, Drugs

The combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP) is a contraceptive for women. It is often called birth control pill or simply "The Pill." The pills contain hormones that make the women who take them infertile. Women who take the pill will not become pregnant during sexual intercourse. When a woman stops taking the pills, she will usually become fertile again. When taken as prescribed, the pills are one of the safest methods of contraception.

In the 1950s, scientists (such as Carl Djerassi, George Rosenkranz and Alejandro Zaffaroni) realized that the hormone progesterone stopped women from making eggs (stopped ovulation).  After this discovery, the combined oral contraceptive pill was created. The combined oral contraceptive pill has two female hormones: estrogen and progesterone. Some oral contraceptive pills have only progesterone. These are often called the "minipill".

The combined oral contraceptive pill is thought to be safe and usually works well.

In the United States, the combined oral contraceptive pill was first given to women in 1960. It was a revolutionary breakthrough in contraception for two reasons. First, it is extremely effective at preventing pregnancy if it is used in the right way. Second, it was the first contraceptive to completely separate the act of contraception (in this case the taking of a pill) from sexual intercourse itself. Unlike barrier methods, when a woman is "on the Pill," she and her man are usually not even aware of it during sexual intercourse, which seems and feels very natural. (In fact, it is possible for the woman to be on the pill without her partner even knowing.) The couple can have sex at any time they wish; they don’t need to interrupt foreplay to put birth control in place, and they can feel the physical sensations and emotional closeness of intercourse without interference from a make or female condom. Unlike coitus interruptus, when a woman is on the Pill, intercourse usually ends with her man reaching orgasm while inside the vagina, which both the man and woman usually find very pleasurable. It may also  make women's menses shorter and with less bleeding, as well as helping her complexion, which most women like. For all of these reasons, the Pill is very popular. In 2005, more than  80 million women across the world used the Pill. It is the most common method of contraception in the United States, with four out of five women there having used the pill for birth control at some point in their lives. Use of the Pill is different in different countries, and among women of different ages and levels of education. Both single women and married women use the Pill in large numbers.

The Pill has some slight risks for side effects. It may make a very small increase in the risk of blood clots in the lungs, strokes, heart attacks, and breast cancer. Most of these risk are small. Some women may experience mood swings, weight gain, or loss of sex drive. Sometimes, but rarely, these side effects are serious enough to make a woman decide to stop using the Pill.

[[Synchronization (computer science)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science, synchronization refers to one of two different but related concepts: synchronization of processes, and synchronization of data. 

Process synchronization is commonly used to implement Data synchronization.

[[Client-server]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, File sharing

In Computer science, client-server is a software architecture model consisting of two parts, client systems and server systems, both communicating over a computer network or on the same computer. A client-server application is a distributed system made up of both client and server software. Client server application provide a better way to share the workload.The client process always initiates a connection to the server, while the server process always waits for requests from any client. 

When both the client process and server process are running on the same computer, this is called a single seat setup.

[[Mainstream]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment, Education, Culture

Mainstream is a term that usually refers to the common current of thought held by the majority, meaning that "mainstream" things are those that are currently popular with most people. It is most often applied in the arts (i.e., music, literature, and performance). This includes:

The mainstream includes all popular culture, usually circulation by mass media. An example of the opposite of the mainstream is counterculture. The term is sometimes used as a negative term. In the United States, Protestant denomination with a mix of conservative, moderate, and liberal theologies are sometimes referred to as "mainstream."

[[Opel Agila]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Opel automobiles

Opel Agila was a car from  the German carmaker Opel from 2000 to 2015.

[[Heatseekers Albums]]

CATEGORIES: Record charts

Heatseekers Albums (formerly Top HeatseekersNovember 2017) is a weekly music chart for albums introduced by Billboard in 1993. It was created to publish sales by new and developing musical recording artists.  Albums that appear on Top Heatseekers may also appear on the Billboard 200 at the same time.

Top Heatseekers contains fifty chart positions.  Although the chart's rules have changed a little bit over the years, its current rules for an album to be allowed to enter Top Heatseekers say it needs to be one of the best-selling albums by a new or developing act (a band or musical artist), meaning an act that has never appeared in the top 100 of the Billboard 200.  If an album on Heatseekers does enter the top 100 of the Billboard 200, it and any albums  the act later releases are not eligible to appear on the Heatseekers chart. Many artists have bypassed Top Heatseekers because their first chart entry debuted on the Billboard 200 at position 100 or above.

[[Zoo Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels

Zoo Entertainment was an American record label, and a part of BMG. The label was created in the early 1990s by Lou Maglia, the former president of Island Records. It is now out of operation. Maglia and former BMG executive Kevin Czinger ran Zoo Entertainment and its successor company Volcano Entertainment. When money ran out, Volcano's owners sold the company to Zomba Records. Zomba later entered into a joint venture with Bernstein & Mensch, the rock management company. Zoo is best known for releasing three multi-platinum Tool albums.

[[Subculture]]

CATEGORIES: Subculture

A subculture is a group of people involved in a community of some sort. Subcultures can be hobbies, groups or communities. A subculture is a group of people with a culture (whether distinct or hidden) which makes them different from the larger culture that they belong to, known as the "dominant" culture. If a subculture is described as opposing the dominant culture, it may be described as a counterculture. As Ken Gelder notes, subcultures are social, with their own shared rules, values and rituals, but they can also seem self-involved — another thing that makes them different from countercultures.

[[Luxembourg (disambiguation)]]

Luxembourg can mean:

[[Wingfield, Wiltshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wiltshire

Wingfield is a village in the county of Wiltshire, England, United Kingdom.

[[Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and queens, Bhutanese people, 1980 births, Living people, Current national leaders, People from Kathmandu

Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck (born 21 February 1980) is the son of Jigme Singye Wangchuck and the 5th and current reigning Dragon King (Druk Gyalpo) of the Kingdom of Bhutan. He became king on 9 December 2006. He was officially crowned on 1 November 2008.

[[Late Registration]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums, Kanye West albums, Hip hop albums

Late Registration is the second studio album by American hip hop artist Kanye West, released on August 30, 2005, by Roc-A-Fella Records. Late Registration debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 chart, selling 860,000 copies in its first week. The album has thus far sold over 3.1 million units in the United States and has been certified triple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America.

[[Barangay Santa Clara, Santa Maria, Bulacan]]

CATEGORIES: Barangays

Santa Clara (PSGC: 031423021) is one of the twenty-four barangays composing the municipality of Santa Maria, Bulacan, in the Philippines. It is bordered by Barangay Lalakhan on the southwest, Bagbaguin on the south, Poblacion on the east, Sta. Cruz on the north and Barangay Tambubong in Bocaue on the west.

[[Lapis lazuli]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones

Lapis lazuli is a mineral, and a gemstone. It is formed as a metamorphic rock of the limestone type.

Lapis is famous for its beautiful blue colour: its name means "stone of blue". Lapis Lazuli has been used for many things. Its has been made into beads and used in jewellery since Prehistoric times. It can be carved into statuettes (little sculptures). The major use was as a pigment (colour) in artists' paint. During Medieval and Renaissance times, lapis was ground into powder, and mixed with oil. It was used as the colour for painting the sky, and blue clothes. It can be seen in the fresco paintings of Giotto and the tempera paintings of Fra Angelico.

[[Royan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Charente-Maritime

Royan is a city in the south west of France near the Atlantic Ocean and the Gironde estuary. About 18 100 (2005) people live in the city. Royan is a famous seaside resort, with five sandy beaches, a marina and a fishing port.

[[Spider-Man 3]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, 2000s superhero movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Sam Raimi, Movies produced by Avi Arad, Sequel movies, Spider-Man movies, Spider-Man (2002 movie series), Buena Vista International movies, Columbia Pictures movies

Spider-Man 3 is a 2007 superhero movie directed by Sam Raimi. It is a sequel movie to Spider-Man and Spider-Man 2 and has Tobey Maguire and Kirsten Dunst in the same roles as Spider-Man and Mary Jane Watson. Spiderman gets a black suit from space, which begins to make him angry when fighting his enemies the Sandman and the new Goblin. He gets the black suit off, and it takes over another photographer called Eddie Brock to become another villain called Venom. Set shortly after the events of Spider-Man 2, as Peter Parker prepares for his future with Mary Jane Watson, he faces three more villains: Uncle Ben's true killer, Flint Marko who becomes the Sandman after a freak accident; Harry Osborn, who is now aware of Peter's identity and seeks to avenge his father; and Eddie Brock, a rival photographer who becomes Venom. Peter also faces his greatest challenge when he bonds with an extraterrestrial symbiote that augments his abilities but brings out his anger and other negative traits.

Development of Spider-Man 3 began immediately after the successful release of Spider-Man 2 for a 2007 release. During pre-production, Raimi originally wanted another villain to be included along with Sandman. At the request of producer Avi Arad, he added Venom and the producers also requested the addition of Gwen Stacy. Principal photography for the film began in January 2006, and took place in Los Angeles and Cleveland before moving to New York City from May until July 2006. Additional pick-up shots were made after August and the film wrapped in October 2006. During post-production, Sony Pictures Imageworks created over 900 visual effects shots. With an estimated production budget of $258–350 million, it was the most expensive film ever made at the time of its release.

Spider-Man 3 premiered on April 16, 2007, in Tokyo, and was released in the United States in both conventional and IMAX theaters on May 4, 2007. The film grossed $890.9 million worldwide, making it the highest-grossing film of the trilogy, the third-highest-grossing film of 2007 and was the highest-grossing Spider-Man film until it was surpassed by Spider-Man: Far From Home in 2019. Unlike the previous installments, Spider-Man 3 received a mixed reception from critics, who praised the performances, visual effects and action sequences, but criticized the overloaded storylines, subplots, and overabundance of villains. The majority of these topics were later attributed to studio interferences and creative differences between Sony, Raimi and Arad.

A fourth installment, titled Spider-Man 4, was set to be released on May 6, 2011, followed by a Venom spin-off film, but both were canceled due to Raimi's withdrawal over creative differences with the writers and producers. The Spider-Man film series was rebooted twice; first with The Amazing Spider-Man (2012) by Marc Webb and starring Andrew Garfield; and later a new film series set within the Marvel Cinematic Universe, directed by Jon Watts and starring Tom Holland, beginning with Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017). The Venom spin-off was revived in 2016 by Sony and was finally released in 2018 with Venom, set within Sony Pictures Universe of Marvel Characters and directed by Ruben Fleischer and starring Tom Hardy.

[[Controlled language]]

CATEGORIES: Constructed languages

Controlled natural languages (CNLs) are artificial languages built by simplifying the grammar and reducing the number of words in the language to avoid ambiguity or complexity.

There are two types of controlled languages: some designed to help non-native speakers of a language, and some designed to enable automatic semantic analysis.

The first type of languages are often called "simplified" or "technical" languages. They are used by businesses or industries to improve the quality of technical writing. The standard terms simplify the semi-automatic translation to other languages. Examples are: the ASD Sim Technical English, Caterpillar Technical English, and IBM's Easy English.

Simplified (or technical) languages guide the writer by general rules such as "write short and simple sentences", "use the person's name ("John Smith" for example) instead of saying "him", and "talk about who is doing something, rather than what is being done, unless you need to say what is being done".

The second type of languages have well defined rules for writing and understanding. These rules can be matched to formal languages, such as first-order logic. The languages can be analysed by computer. They can be checked to see they are correct. They can be searched for information easily.

[[Artificial language]]

CATEGORIES: Constructed languages, Interlinguistics, Linguistics, Language

An artificial language is a language specially made for a purpose. These languages can be based on an existing natural language or can be artificial.

Some types of artificial languages are:

[[Benozzo Gozzoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1420 births, 1498 deaths, 15th century Italian painters, People from Florence

Benozzo Gozzoli (1420-1498) was an Italian Renaissance painter. He is most famous for a small chapel that he decorated with frescos of the Procession of the Magi.

[[I Am... Sasha Fierce]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Beyoncé albums

… Sasha Fierce'(2008)

I Am... Sasha Fierce - is the third solo studio album by American R&B singer Beyoncé.

[[Gary Shearston]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Australian singers, Australian folk musicians, Musicians from New South Wales

Gary Reht Shearston (born January 9 1939) is an Australian singer and songwriter. He was a leading figure of the folk music scene of the 1960s. He is important as a singer of Australian traditional folk songs. He scored a Top 10 hit in the United Kingdom in 1974 with version of the Cole Porter classic I Get A Kick Out Of You.

[[The Flame in All of Us]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Hard rock albums, Nu metal albums

The Flame in All of Us is the last album released by Thousand Foot Krutch. It was released on September 18, 2007. It has more of a rock sound than earlier albums, but also has some softer songs. The band recorded with producer Ken Andrews in the Spring of 2007. The album began at #58 on The Billboard 200 charts.

Five songs from The Flame in All of Us were put on the internet before the album actually released. One of them, Falls Apart was a single for the band.

[[Falls Apart]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs

Falls Apart was a single released by Thousand Foot Krutch in 2007. It was made available online in July 2007. It is on their album The Flame in All of Us.

[[Cowra, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Cowra is a city in the central west of New South Wales, Australia. It is in Cowra Shire.  It is 310m above sea-level and about 300 km west of Sydney. Cowra is on the banks of the Lachlan River.

The first name for Cowra was Coura Rocks. This may have been the name of one of the first cattle farms. This name is probably the name of the river ford (crossing) where people could cross the Lachlan River.

The name Cowra comes from a local aboriginal word meaning "eagle on the rocks".

It should not be confused with another New South Wales town named Corowa.

[[Network computing]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

Network computing is when computers work together over a network. Network computing is "Storing and/or running applications in servers in a network" This means that the network may use the power from all the networked computers to perform complex tasks. The network could also be for sharing files so that they can be looked at on any computer in the network easily.

Network computing is the opposite to Stand-alone computing. This is where computers are not connect to a network. Most laptops and home computers do their jobs alone and are stand-alone computers.

[[Loan]]

CATEGORIES: Money

A loan is a type of debt. The borrower needs to repay the lender the sum of money loaned part by part over time in order to clear the debt.

Acting as a provider of loans is one of the main tasks for financial institutions. For other institutions, issuing of debt contracts such as bonds is a main source of funding. Bank loans and credit are one way to increase the money supply.

[[Mortgage]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Property

A mortgage is a way to use one's real property as a guarantee for a loan to get money.  Real property can be land, a house, or a building. Many people do this to buy the home they use for mortgage: the loan provides them the money to buy the house and the loan is guaranteed by the house.

In a mortgage, there is a debtor and a creditor. The debtor or mortgagor is the owner of the property, while the creditor or mortgagee is the owner of the loan. When the mortgage transaction is made, the debtor gets the money with the loan, and promises to pay the loan. The creditor will receive money back with interest over time (usually in payments made each month by the debtor). If the debtor does not pay the loan, the creditor may take the mortgaged property in place of the loan. This is called foreclosure.

In the 2008 American economic failure, creditors lent money to debtors who could not pay back that money.  This lowered housing prices and hurt the economy.

[[Bandwidth (computing)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer network and computer science, digital bandwidth or just bandwidth means the amount of data that can be sent from one point to another in a certain period of time. It is measured as a bit rate expressed in bits per second (bits/s) or multiples of it (kbit/s Mbit/s etc.) 

Digital bandwidth should not be confused with:

[[Niki Fm]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 songs

Niki FM is a song by Hawthorne Heights. It is one of their most famous songs, and their second hit.

The band's singer,  JT, says it is his most personal song from the album The Silence in Black and White, and is his favourite song to perform live in concert. They still play it at concerts, although without the harsh vocals that are on the single.

[[Gears of War 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Xbox 360 games, Microsoft video games

Gears of War 2 is a third-person shooter video game made by Epic Games and published by Microsoft. It can only be played on Microsoft's own Xbox 360 console. It is the sequel to the popular Xbox 360 game Gears of War. The game was released around the world on November 7 2008. By November 12 it had already sold over 2 million copies.

[[Epic Games]]

CATEGORIES: American technology companies, Video game companies

Epic Games is a video game company based in North Carolina, USA. They are famous for making the Fortnite, Unreal Tournament, and Gears of War series' of video games.

[[Riemann sum]]

CATEGORIES: Calculus

In mathematics, the Riemann sum is a method of approximating the integral of a function over an interval. One representation of the integral, is the area under a curve in a graph.  The Riemann sum is calculated   by splitting the region into equal parts. In each part, the function is replaced by a shape. Shapes that are commonly used are rectangles, trapezoids, parabolas and cubics.The area of the similar shape can then be calculated. This method is often used when finding the closed form integral is difficult or impossible. The shapes used also influence how accurate the approximation is. More complex shapes give a higher accuracy, but this also means that calculating the approximation becomes more difficult.

Because the region filled by the small shapes is usually not exactly the same shape as the region being measured, the Riemann sum will differ from the area being measured. This error can be reduced by dividing up the region more finely, using smaller and smaller shapes. As the shapes get smaller and smaller, the sum approaches the Riemann integral.

The Riemann sum  may also be used to define the integration operation. The sum is named after a German mathematician who was called Bernhard Riemann.

[[Beatitudes]]

CATEGORIES: Gospels

The Beatitudes (from Latin beatus, meaning "blessed" or "happy") are a list of traits that Christians should follow told by Gospel of Matthew and Gospel of Luke. Some of these include humbleness, meekness, and making peace. 

Jesus Christ taught these ideas as part of a three lesson sermon; the Sermon on the Mount. 

[[Asceticism]]

CATEGORIES: Lifestyles, Human behavior

Asceticism (Greek: askēsis) is a word that describes a certain way of living. In this kind of life, a person gets rid of worldly pleasures for religion or spirituality. A person might not have sex or drink alcohol. One might spend much of their time in prayer or meditation. Often, the reason is to follow goals of Christianity and the Indian religions (including yoga). These teach that salvation and freedom involve a process of changing one's mind and body. This is done by limiting speech, what one thinks and does with the body. 

The earliest people who practiced Buddhism, Jainism, and the Christian hermits, lived very simply and without luxury. They rejected sensual pleasures and keeping money. This did not mean that life could not be enjoyed. But spiritual and religious goals are hindered by such indulgence. 

Asceticism is closely related to the abstinence and the Christian concept of chastity and might be said to be the technical implementation of the abstract vows of renunciation. Those who practice ascetic lifestyles do not consider their practices as virtuous but pursue such a life-style in order to satisfy certain technical requirements for mind-body transformation. There is remarkable uniformity among the above religions with respect to the benefits of sexual continence. Religions teach that purifying the soul also involves purification of the body which thereby enables connection with the Divine and the cultivation of inner peace. In the popular imagination asceticism is considered a sort of perversion (self-flagellation by birch twigs as the archetypal stereotype of self-mortification) but the askēsis enjoined by religion functions in order to bring about greater freedom in various areas of one's life, such as freedom from compulsions and temptations bringing about peacefulness of mind with a concomitant increase in clarity and power of thought. Asceticists sometimes neglect their maslowist or maslowic needs.

[[San Marco, Florence]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in Italy, Buildings and structures in Florence

St. Mark's, (S. Marco) in Florence, Italy is a church and Dominican convent. The church also has the Museum of St. Mark (Museo di S. Marco) which shows paintings by Fra Angelico.

The Domincan Convent was begun in the early 1400s. The first "prior" (head man) was St. Antoninus of Florence. The famous painter known as Fra Angelico was one of the first of the Dominican Friars to live and work there. He later became the prior. The land for the convent was given to the friars by Cosimo Medici.  The monks lived in small rooms called "cells". Cosimo had a cell built for himself, where he could stay sometimes. Between 1447 and 1452 Cosimo got his favourite architect, Michelozzo, to build a large new library and improve other parts of the building. In the late 1700s, the facade (front) of the building was rebuilt in a Classical style.

In 1490, the prior of St. Marks was a famous Domincan called Savonarola. He lived in the cell that had once belonged to Cosimo Medici. He was a great preacher. He disliked Cosimo's grandson, Lorenzo Medici, who was often called "Lorenzo the Magnificent" (Lorenzo il Magnifico). He thought that Lorenzo had too much power and was acting like a prince. He preached against Lorenzo, against the Pope and against the Roman Catholic Church. He told everyone that the end of the world was near. Many people became frightened or depressed by the things that he said. Pope Alexander VI had Savonarola arrested. He was tortured and put to death in 1498. 60 years later, the Church agreed that, in fact, he had said nothing wrong.

[[Sadhu]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism

In Hinduism, sadhu is a common term for an ascetic or someone who practices yoga (yogi). Sadhus have given up trying to achieve the first three Hindu goals of life: kama (enjoyment), artha (practical objectives) and even dharma (duty). The sadhu is solely dedicated to achieving moksha (liberation) through meditation and contemplation of God. Sadhus often wear ochre-colored clothing, as a symbol that they have given up many things in life.

[[Digambar]]

CATEGORIES: Jainism

Digambar (sky-clad) is one of the two main sects of Jainism, the other is Svetambar. The word digambara is made up of two words 'dig' and 'ambar',  the person whose clothes (ambar) is the directions (dig). The digambar have a stricter interpretation of Jainism than other sects.

[[Squidward Tentacles]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1999

Squidward Tentacles is one of the main characters of SpongeBob SquarePants. He is SpongeBob's grumpy neighbor and a coworker of SpongeBob SquarePants that lives in a moai.

[[Afro-Asian]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups

Afro-Asian or Blasian, means a person of mixed race. Black African and East Asian.

[[Adam Mickiewicz]]

CATEGORIES: 1798 births, 1855 deaths, Polish poets

Adam Bernard Mickiewicz (AUD; 24 December 1798Spaced en dash26 November 1855) was a heavily influential national Polish Romantic poet, generally regarded as the greatest figure in Polish literature, especially known for his epic poem Pan Tadeusz. At the later phase of his life he was also a political activist, an ideologue and a Messianic philosopher who lectured Slavic languages at Collège de France.

[[RC6]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, RC6 is a symmetric-key block cipher derived from RC5. RC6 is a parameterized algorithm with a variable block size, a variable key size, and a variable number of rounds. RC stands for "Rivest Cipher", or alternatively, "Ron's Code".

In 1997, the NIST announced a competition to choose a successor to Data Encryption Standard (DES) to be known as Advanced Encryption Standard (AES). RC6 was derived from RC5 to meet the competition requirements, and was selected as one of the five finalists of the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) competition, but was not selected as a standard.

In order to provide varieties of security and efficiency levels, RC6 allows choices for the block size: 32 bits (for experimentation and evaluation purposes only), 64 bits (for use as a replacement for DES), and 128 bits (intended for AES). The number of rounds can range from 0 to 255, while the key sizes can range from 0 bits to 2040 bits in size. 

RC6 is very similar to RC5 in structure and could be viewed as interweaving two parallel RC5 encryption processes. However, RC6 does use an extra multiplication operation not present in RC5 and the use of four b/4-bit working registers (see splitting of plaintext blocks in feistel cipher) instead of two b/2-bit registers as in RC5 (b is the block size). Integer multiplication is used to increase the diffusion achieved per round so that fewer rounds are needed and the speed of the cipher can be increased.The reason for using four working registers instead of two is mainly for optimization on 32-bit CPUs. The default block size of RC5 was 64 bits, while the default block size of the AES is 128 bits. RC5 has only two working registers. It uses 32-bit operations when dealing with 64-bit blocks and 64-bit operations when dealing with 128-bit blocks, so four working registers are required to build the AES architecture using only 32-bit operations.

RC6 is a proprietary and patented algorithm (by RSA Security 5724428 and 5835600), and may require licensing and royalty payments for any products using the algorithm. It was designed by Ron Rivest, Matt Robshaw, Ray Sidney, and Yiqun Lisa Yin, and was also submitted to the NESSIE and CRYPTREC projects.

[[RC5]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, RC5 is a simple symmetric-key block cipher. Designed by Ronald Rivest in 1994, RC5 is a parameterized algorithm with a variable block size, a variable key size, and a variable number of rounds. "RC" stands for "Rivest Cipher", or alternatively, "Ron's Code".

In order to provide varieties of security and efficiency levels; RC5 has a variable block size (32, 64 or 128 bits), variable key size (0 to 2040 bits) and variable number of rounds (0 to 255). The original suggested choice of parameters were a block size of 64 bits, a 128-bit key and 12 rounds.

A key feature of RC5 is the use of data-dependent rotations; one of the goals of RC5 was to study and evaluate operations of block ciphers as a cryptographic primitive. RC5 also consists of a number of modular additions and eXclusive OR (Xor)s. The general structure of the algorithm is a Feistel-like network. The encryption and decryption routines can be specified in a few lines of code. The key schedule, however, is more complex, expanding the key using an essentially one-way function with the binary expansions of both e and the golden ratio as sources of "nothing up my sleeve numbers". The simplicity of the algorithm together with the novelty of the data-dependent rotations has made RC5 an attractive subject to study by cryptanalysts.

[[Altaic languages]]

CATEGORIES: Languages

Altaic is a disputed language family, but only a few linguists still believe that it existed. It supposedly had 66 languages that are now spoken by about 348 million people, mostly in and around Central Asia and northeast Asia.

According to the most well-known classification, Altaic has the Turkic languages, Mongolic, and the Tungusic languages. That is probably the meaning attributed to "Altaic" by most general linguists.

However, since the publication of Gustaf John Ramstedt's Einführung in 1952–1957, most Altaicists have included Korean in Altaic. Since the publication of Roy Andrew Miller's Japanese and the Other Altaic Languages in 1971, some also included Japanese (Nicholas Poppe) or Japonic, consisting of Japanese and Ryukyuan.

A few linguists (such as (Street 1962)) even count Ainu with the Altaic languages but as part of a node including Korean and Japanese, in contrast to a Turkic-Mongolic-Tungusic node, with Korean-Japanese-Ainu and Turkic-Mongolic-Tungusic, in turn, forming a higher-level node.

The core version of Altaic, consisting of Turkic, Mongolic, and Tungusic, is sometimes referred to as "Micro-Altaic," and the expanded version, including Korean and sometimes Japanese, is referred to as "Macro-Altaic," but even the core version is very controversial.

[[Mongolian language]]

CATEGORIES: Mongolian language

The Mongolian language (, Mongɣol kele, Cyrillic: Монгол хэл, Mongol khel) is the best-known member of the Mongolic language family and the language of most of the residents of Mongolia, where it is officially written with the Cyrillic alphabet and of around three million Mongolian speakers in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of China, where it is officially written with the traditional Mongolian script. It is also spoken in some areas in the Russian Far East and Kyrgyzstan. The majority of speakers in Mongolia speak the Khalkha (or Halh) dialect, while those in China speak one of many Inner Mongolian dialects.

[[RC2]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

In cryptography, RC2 is a symmetric-key block cipher. Designed by Ronald Rivest in 1987. "RC" stands for "Rivest Cipher", or alternatively, "Ron's Code".

RC2 is a 64-bit block cipher with a variable key size and using 18 rounds.

Rounds are arranged as a source-heavy feistel network, with 16 rounds of one type called "mixing rounds" interleaved by two rounds of another type called "mashing rounds".

The 18 rounds are performed using the following interleaved sequence: 

RC2 uses key-expansion algorithm by which an expanded key consisting of 64 (16-bit words) is produces depending in a complicated way on every bit of the supplied "variable-length" input key. A mixing round consists of four applications of the "mix-up" transformation, as shown in the diagram. A round is "mashed" by adding to it one of the 16-bit words of the expanded key (RFC 2268).

RC2 is susceptible to a related-key attack using 234 chosen-plaintext attacks (Kelsey et al., 1997).

The development of RC2 was sponsored by Lotus, who were seeking a custom cipher be exported as part of their Lotus Notes software, after evaluation by the NSA. The NSA suggested a couple of changes, which Ronald Rivest incorporated. After further negotiations, the cipher was approved for export in 1989.

Along with RC4, RC2 with a 40-bit key size was treated under US export regulations for cryptography. Now all 40-bit encryption algorithms are obsolete because they are dangerously susceptible to brute force attacks.

Initially, the details of the algorithm were kept secret — proprietary to RSA Security — but on 29 January 1996, source code for RC2 was anonymously posted to the Internet on the Usenet forum, sci.crypt. A similar post had occurred earlier with RC4. It is unclear whether the poster had access to the specifications or whether it had been reverse engineered.

[[1999 East Timorese crisis]]

CATEGORIES: Conflicts, 1999 in Asia, East Timor, Civil wars

The 1999 East Timorese crisis  was a conflict. Militia who did not like the independence in East Timor started the conflict when they attacked civilians. These attacks led to more violence all over the country. Most of the violence occurred in the capital Dili.

The violence started after the result of an election was independence from Indonesia. About 1400 people are thought to have died. An UN force (InterFET) made up mainly of people from the Australian Defence Force was sent to East Timor to establish and maintain peace.

[[Ohio Is for Lovers]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 songs

Ohio Is for Lovers is a single released by Hawthorne Heights it came from their first album The Silence in Black and White

The lyrics are one of the main reasons why the band are considered to be Emo. It contains the lyrics "cut my wrists and black my eyes" more than once.

Some people take this literally, but the singer has explained its only a Figure of speech the band is against self harming.

The song was charted #34 in America.

[[Lady Godiva]]

CATEGORIES: 990 births, 1067 deaths, English people, Sociology, Nudity

Lady Godiva (Godgifu; about 980 – 1067) was an Anglo-Saxon noblewoman. She was married to Earl Leofric and frequently donated to the church, and was highly religious. There are legends that say that she rode naked through the streets of Coventry in England.

[[Scandal]]

CATEGORIES: Words, Political scandals

A scandal is a very public incident which involves a claim of wrong-doing, shame, or moral offence. A scandal may be about a real event, an untrue event (often called a False allegation) or a mixture of both.  Something which is a scandal can be described as scandalous.

Scandals may be told by whistleblower, who have access to secrets and allow them to go public. A well-known scandal was the Watergate scandal, in which US President Richard Nixon was found to be supporting and hiding illegal burglaries. 

Untrue claims often lead to a loss of respect for that person, and can destroy their careers. Sometimes an attempt to cover up a scandal creates a bigger scandal when the cover-up does not succeed. 

Sometimes there are scandals surrounding people who work for the president such as during the Grant administration. The Iran-Contra affair was also a known scandal that surrounded Ronald Reagan and his administration. All were not-guilty of the crime.

[[Countdown to Extinction]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums, Megadeth albums

Countdown to Extinction is the fifth studio album by American thrash metal band Megadeth. Countdown to Extinction was released on July 6, 1992. It was released through Capitol Records. The album debuted at #2 on the Billboard 200 and sold 128,000 copies in the first week.

The album was nominated for Best Metal Performance at the 1993 Grammy Awards. The title track won the Humane Society's Genesis Award for raising awareness for animal rights issues.

[[Manchester]]

CATEGORIES: Manchester, 1st century establishments in Europe, Establishments in England

Manchester is a city in North West England. In 2013 there were 514,417 people living there, which makes it the fifth largest city in the United Kingdom.

It is a city and metropolitan borough of Greater Manchester, England. Manchester was given city status in 1853. The city is in the middle of the Greater Manchester Urban Area, which has 2,240,230 people, and is the United Kingdom's third largest built-up place.

Manchester is a very important city in England, and is often called the "Capital of the North". Manchester has many places for the arts, places for learning, businesses providing media as well as lots of shops. In a poll of British managers in 2006, Manchester was named the best place in Britain to have a business. A report in 2007 said Manchester is a fast-growing city (meaning lots of jobs are being created). Manchester was the host of the 2002 Commonwealth Games. It has two well-known football teams, Manchester United and Manchester City.

Manchester was the first city to industrialise, because of  the Industrial Revolution. It became the main place for making cloth and fabric. During the 19th century it had the nickname Cottonopolis, because it had so many cotton mills. The middle of Manchester is important because of its network of canals and mills built during its 19th-century development.

[[List of goaltenders who have scored a goal in an NHL game]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of National Hockey League players, Ice hockey goaltenders

There have been twelve goaltenders who have scored a goal in a National Hockey League (NHL) game. The most recent to do so was Pekka Rinne in 2020.

[[51 Pegasi b]]

CATEGORIES: Exoplanets

51 Pegasi b, also called Bellerephon or 51 Peg b, is the first extrasolar planet discovered orbiting a main-sequence star,  51 Pegasi. Michel Mayor and Didier Queloz announced the discovery on 6 October 1995. It is 50 light years away in the direction of the constellation Pegasus. 

[[Greasers]]

Greaser or Greasers can refer to:

[[Sirrako Ioanninon]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Greece

Sirrako Ioanninon is a mountainous Greek village. It is in the district of Ioannina in the north-east of Greece. Sirrako is built at an altitude of 1,150 metres up the Lakmos mountain which makes it one of the highest Greek villages. It is a traditional village with old stone houses whose main characteristic is that they have slate roofs.

The Greek famous poet Kostas Krystallis came from Sirraco.

[[Cryptographic protocol]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography

A cryptographic protocol (also known as encryption protocol or security protocol) is an abstract or an existing protocol that performs a security-related function and applies cryptographic methods. 

A protocol describes how the cryptographic algorithms should be used to secure information. The description of a protocol must include details about all data structures and representations, and all details about how to utilize the protocol by programs.

Cryptographic protocols are widely used for secure application-level data transport, in order to secure transferred messages. A cryptographic protocol usually has at least some of these features:

The term cryptographic protocol is used in different ways. For example, cryptographic application protocols often use one or more underlying Key-agreement protocols which are also sometimes themselves referred to as "cryptographic protocols", like the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) which uses what is known as the Diffie-Hellman key exchange, Diffie-Hellman may be seen as a complete cryptographic protocol in itself for other applications.

[[List of Greek islands]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Greece, Greece-related lists

This is a list of islands that are part of Greece. They are shown in order of size.

[[Religious persecution]]

CATEGORIES: Religious violence, Discrimination

Religious persecution means unfair treatment of a particular group of people because of their religion. It aims at forcing the religious to go away or give up their religion. "Persecution" comes from a Latin word meaning "chase", and usually meant chasing someone in order to kill them. In later centuries the term was applied to other actions. Religious persecution may occur in the following forms:

Incidents of persecution are periodically reported in many countries. For example in case of India, the United States Department of State in its annual human rights report for 2006 noted attacks against the people of religious groups who are small in number. State Department's annual reports on religious freedom for 2007 expressed concern over organized societal attacks against religious minority in India. Some state governments in India have been accused of not effectively prosecuting those who attack religious minorities. In Iran, Bahá'í Faith is banned.

[[Persecution of Christians]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Christianity, Discrimination, Christian behavior and experience, Religious violence

Persecution of Christians is treating Christians unfairly based on their religion. This can mean using violence against them or putting them in prison. Persecution of Christians exists in many countries which include India, Iran, Pakistan, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Burma, Lebanon, Syria, Sri Lanka etc.

[[Religious violence]]

CATEGORIES: Religious violence

Religious violence means the religiously-motivated killing and/or injuring of people of one religion by people of another region.

The September 11 attacks are an example of religious mass-killing. In India, incidents of attacks by hindu-nationalists upon christians have periodically occurred since independence. The United States Department of State in its annual human rights report for 2006 noted attacks against the people of religious groups who are small in number. State Department's annual reports on religious freedom for 2007 expressed concern over organized societal attacks against religious minority in India. Some state governments in India have been accused of not effectively prosecuting those who attack religious minorities.

[[Telugu cinema]]

CATEGORIES: Cinema of India

Telugu Cinema (Telugu: తెలుగు సినీపరిశ్రమ), means movies and movie-making in the Telugu language. Another word for Telugu Cinema is Tollywood. This is portmanteau made of the words "Telugu" and "Hollywood".

Tollywood movies are produced in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana  states in the Republic Of India.

[[Sandalwood]]

CATEGORIES: Wood, Perfumery

Sandalwood is a form of wood and also the oil made from it. It is used for perfume and medicine. They are found in India, Australia, Indonesia, and the Pacific Islands. Its genus is Santalum. In Indonesia and Malaysia, its local name is Cendana.

[[Oriya film industry]]

CATEGORIES: Cinema of India

Oriya Film Industry or Ollywood refers to the Bhubaneswar and Cuttack based Oriya film industry in the Republic of India. The origins of that name are disputed, called Ollywood a portmanteau of the words Odia and Hollywood.

[[Mollywood]]

CATEGORIES: Cinema of India

Mollywood refers to Malayalam cinema, movies made in the Indian state of Kerala in the Malayalam language.

[[Teri Yaad (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1948 movies, Urdu-language movies

Teri Yaad is a Pakistani Urdu movie. It is the first movie to be released in the country after Pakistan was created in the separation of India. The movie was released  on 7 August 1948, Eid day. It was the first movie released after the creation of Pakistan, but not the first to be produced by the people who lived in the land that became Pakistan.

[[The Bird and the Bee Sides]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums

The Bird and the Bee Sides is a 2008 album released by Relient K on July 2nd.

The album contains 13 new songs, and many of their B sides and unreleased songs. A few other songs could be found from a scavenger hunt that the band encouraged fans to do. You had to solve a puzzle

It's the first album to feature their current drummer, Ethan Luck.

[[Mukh O Mukhosh]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1956 movies

Mukh O Mukhosh (মুখ ও মুখোশ, The Face and the Mask) was a 1956 movie. It was the first Bengali language movie to be made in the former (East Pakistan region). It was produced by Iqbal movies and directed by Abdul Jabbar Khan. The movie was released in East Pakistan on 3 August 1956. It was released in Dacca, Chittagong, Narayanganj, and Khulna. The movie was a great success as viewers thronged to watch the first movie to be made in the region. It earned a total of Rs. 48,000 during its initial run.

[[Livadeia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Livadeia is a Greek town. It is in the district of Voiotia in central Greece and its population is 21.385. Livadeia is the capital of Voiotia and it is built on a plane, near Kopaida plane. The distance between Athens and Livadeia is 136 km. North of livadeia is mountain Parnassos and west of Livadeia is mountain Elikonas. In the east and south of Livadeia is the plane of Kopaida. Near Livadeia there is Orchomenos and Cheronia which are historical places.

[[1840–1849 Atlantic hurricane seasons]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 1840s

[[Jiban Thekey Neya]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 movies, Bangladeshi movies

Jibon Theke Neya (জীবন থেকে নেয়া) is a Bengali movie by Bangladeshi filmmaker Zahir Raihan.

The movie is a political satire based on the Bengali Language Movement, and stars  Shaukat Akbar, Anwar Hossain, Khan Ataur Rahman and Rosy Samad.

Jibon Theke Neya has been described as an example of "national cinema", using discrete local traditions to build a representation of the Bangladeshi national identity.

[[Pheray (1949 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1949 movies, Punjabi-language movies

Pheray was a Pakistani Punjabi movie. It was released on August 3, 1949. The movie was directed by Nazir. The movie was a remake of Indian movie Gaon Ki Gori, released in 1945 in India before partition.

[[Twin Towers]]

Twin Towers could mean:

In architecture:

In movie and literature:

In sports:

[[Live! Live! Live!]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 albums, Bryan Adams albums, A&M Records albums

Live! Live! Live! is a live album released by Bryan Adams in 1988.

[[MTV Unplugged (Bryan Adams album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums, MTV Unplugged albums, Bryan Adams albums

MTV Unplugged is an acoustic live album by Canadian musician Bryan Adams.  The album was recorded in September, 1997 at the Hammerstein Ballroom in New York City.  Adams was joined by Irish piper Davy Spillane and Michael Kamen who wrote orchestrations for many of the songs and brought students from the Juilliard School to play them.

The album includes only thirteen of the songs recorded at the show. Many more are included on the MTV Unplugged DVD and the song order is also different than the CD.

[[So Far So Good (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums, Bryan Adams albums, Greatest hits albums, A&M Records albums

So Far So Good is a compilation album by Bryan Adams, released by A&M Records in November 1993. The album reached number six on the Billboard 200 charts in 1993.

The album contains hits from between "Cuts Like a Knife" (1983) and Waking Up the Neighbours (1991), and a new single, "Please Forgive Me". The only song on the album that has never been released as a single is "Kids Wanna Rock" from Reckless (1984).

Originally the song "So Far So Good" was going to be included on the album so the album started and finished with a new song but it was dropped. The song was included on disc two of Anthology.

[[The Best of Me]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 albums, Bryan Adams albums, Greatest hits albums, A&M Records albums

The Best of Me is a greatest hits album by Canadian singer Bryan Adams. It was released worldwide in 1999, and in the U.S. in 2002.

[[Anthology (Bryan Adams album)]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams albums, 2005 albums, Compilation albums

Anthology is a compilation album by Canadian singer-songwriter Bryan Adams which contains songs he recorded from 1978 through 2005. The two disc set includes songs from 1980–2005. A third disc which was a DVD live concert which was recorded in mid 2005 called "Live in Lisbon" was included in North America for a limited time. All the songs are in chronological order of their release, except the last song on the first disc on the North American edition, which was released in 1999. The album's enclosed booklet has notes about the process of the recordings and the credits for each track.

[[List of awards and nominations received by Bryan Adams]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams, Lists of awards and nominations

Bryan Adams is a Canadian singer-songwriter and guitarist. He has been nominated for 13 Grammy Awards, and has won two. He has also received awards and nominations at the American Music Awards, MTV Video Music Awards, and Golden Globe Awards. His work on the Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves soundtrack won him two awards at the 34th Grammy Awards, including "Best Pop Instrumental Performance" and "Best Song Written for a Motion Picture, Television or Other Visual Media". He also collaborated with Sting and Rod Stewart in 1995 for the single entitled "All for Love", which received a Grammy nomination that same year. Overall, Adams has received four awards from 4 nominations.

Adams was awarded the Order of Canada and the Order of British Columbia for his contribution to popular music and his philanthropic work. He was also inducted into Canada's Walk of Fame in 1998. In April 2006 he was inducted into The Canadian Music Hall of Fame at the Juno Awards, and in 2007 he was nominated for his fifth Golden Globe for the song "Never Gonna Break My Faith" which appeared on the soundtrack for the movie Bobby.

[[List of Bryan Adams backing band members]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams, Lists of entertainers, Music-related lists

Bryan Adams is a Canadian rock musician, who started his solo carrier in 1979 in Kingston, Ontario. Bryan Adams live performances contrast with its in-studio counterpart: although Adams is in complete creative control in the studio, he has typically assembled groups of backing musicians to interpret songs for tours and other live performances.

[[Rush discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies

Rush is a Canadian rock band originally formed in August 1968, in the Willowdale neighbourhood of Toronto, Ontario, currently comprised of bassist, keyboardist, and lead vocalist Geddy Lee, guitarist Alex Lifeson, and drummer and songwriter Neil Peart. The band and its membership went through a number of changes between 1968 and 1974, achieving their definitive form when Neil Peart replaced original drummer John Rutsey in July 1974.

The band released its self-titled debut album in March 1974, after which followed 18 additional studio recordings, 8 live albums and 6 compilations. As a group, Rush has made 24 gold records and 14 platinum (3 multi-platinum) records. According to the RIAA, Rush's number of sales place them fourth behind The Beatles, The Rolling Stones and Aerosmith for the most  gold or platinum albums one after another by a rock band. Rush also ranks 78th in U.S. album sales with 25 million items sold. Although total worldwide album sales are not calculated by any single person or group, as of 2004 some people guessed that Rush's total worldwide album sales is over 40 million items sold.

[[Witch hunt]]

CATEGORIES: Witchcraft

A witch hunt is when everybody in a town looks for witches to capture. This used to be more common than it is today. It was carried out by many different groups, including Christians.

The time when the witch hunts were most common in Europe was from about 1480 AD to 1700 AD. That was when there was the Protestant Reformation and the Thirty Years' War. Back then, tens of thousands of witches were executed. Witch hunts also happened a lot in America around that time.

Today, most countries do not have laws against witches any more, so there are less witch hunts, although the term "witch hunt" can also be used as a joke to refer to something like a witch hunt. An example of a modern "witch hunt" would be the Cold War communist hunt. 

[[Kaneez (1965 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1965 movies

Kaneez is a Pakistani Urdu black and white movie directed by renown director Hassan Tariq and produced by Hassan Tariq and Ali Sufiyan Afaqi. It casted Waheed Murad, Zeba, Mohammad Ali, Sabiha Khanam, Lehri, Saqi, Adeeb and Talish. It is a musical family relationship movie. Waheed Murad and Zeba played lead roles, and Mohammad Ali played a complete character role.

[[Armaan (1966 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1966 movies, Urdu-language movies

Armaan (ارمان), the Pakistani Urdu melodramatic black and white movie. It was produced by Waheed Murad and directed by Pervaiz Malik. It was the first Pakistani movie to complete 75 weeks in cinemas and, thus, became the first Pakistani 'Platinum Jubilee' movie. The movie was picturized in black and white prints and in beautiful locations of Karachi.

[[Badnaam (1966 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1966 movies, Urdu-language movies

Badnaam, is a Pakistani Urdu language movie, the movie was released on September 2, 1966.

Badnaam was based on Saadat Hasan Manto's short story "Jhumkay" ("earrings"). It was adapted for the screen by Riaz Shahid. The movie was directed and produced by Iqbal Shehzad, It is his debut movie as a director. Badnaam starred Allaudin, Nabeela, Neelo, Ejaz, Diljeet Mirza, Hamid Wain and Rangela.

[[Chakori (1967 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1967 movies, Urdu-language movies

Chakori is a Pakistani Urdu movie. This movie was released on March 23, 1967, on Eid-ul-Azha Day in Dacca, East Pakistan (now Bangladesh). The movie was directed by Captain Ehtisham. It was Nadeem Baig's and Shabana's debut movie.

[[Insaniyat (1967 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1967 movies, Urdu-language movies

Insaniyat (ﺖﻴﻧﺎﺴﻧﺍ, humanity) is a Pakistani Urdu black and white movie. It was produced by A. Hameed. This movie is one of the masterpieces of the director Shabab Kiranvi. The movie starred Waheed Murad, Zeba, Tariq Aziz, Firdous and Nanna. This movie is one of the hit movies of Waheed Murad.

[[Doraha (1967 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1967 movies, Urdu-language movies

Doraha is a 1967 Pakistani Urdu movie. It is a black & white movie. Doraha is a classic romantic and melodious movie of 1960s. It is one of the best movies of Pervaiz Malik's and Waheed Murad's careers. At the box office, the movie did not earn much money. It gained more importance after several years. The movie became much more well liked during 1980s and 1990s. Doraha was produced by Sohail Rana and Pervaiz Malik. Malik also directed the movie. The movie stars Murad, Shamim Ara, Deeba, Ibrahim Nafees and Talish. For Doraha, Waheed Murad first casted Zeba, but after her marriage with Mohammad Ali, he picked Shamim Ara. The people that knew Murad knew that Shamim Ara was just a replacement. All the dialogue and songs were for Zeba

[[Ehsaan (1967 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1967 movies, Urdu-language movies

Ehsaan is a Pakistani Urdu black and white movie. It was a presentation by Waheed & Malik combination. The movie is a love story, starring Waheed Murad, Zeba, Nirala, Rozina, Azad and Ibrahim Nafees. The movie was produced by Waheed Murad and directed by Pervaiz Malik.

[[Zinda Laash]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1967 movies, Urdu-language movies

Zinda Laash is a 1967 Pakistani Urdu feature movie, directed by Khwaja Sarfraz. Its produced by Abdul Baqi, a Lollywood movie starring by Asad Bukhari (Dr. Aqil Harker), Habib (Aqil's Brother), Deeba (Shabnam), Rehan (Vampire), Nasreen (Vampire bride).

Zinda Laash is also known as Dracula in Pakistan (USA title) and The Living Corpse (international title). It is the first movie in Pakistan to be X-rated.

[[Anjuman (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1970 movies, Urdu-language movies

Anjuman, a Pakistani Urdu colour film. It was released on 31 July 1970, starring Waheed Murad, Rani, Deeba, Santosh Kumar, Sabiha Khanam and Lehri. The film was released during the hey days of Waheed Murad and became a milestone in the Waheed's career. The film was produced by Safdar Masood and directed by Hassan Tariq, a Pakistani film director.

The film was released at a worse political situation of the country. Nevertheless, the film became a success, with tracks by Runa Laila.

The film won Nigar awards in the categories of best film, best director, best screenplay, best musician, best lyricist, best playback female singer, best editor, best art director and best comedian.

[[Naseeb apna apna (1970 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1970 movies, Urdu-language movies

Naseeb apna apna is a Pakistani Urdu black and white movie. It was directed by Qamar Zaidi and produced by Waheed Murad. It casted Waheed Murad, Shabnam, Zamrrud, Tamanna, Nirala and Saqi. It was a musical love story. The songs of the movie, especially Aye abr-e-karam..., became popular among the Waheed Murad's and Shabnam's fans. It proved to be one of the greatest hits in the early stage of Shabnam's movie career.

[[Tehzeeb (1971 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1971 movies, Urdu-language movies

Tehzeeb, is a Pakistani Urdu movie. It was released on November 20 1971.

The makers of this movie have been asked to change the lyrics of a reference to Misr might prove detrimental to diplomatic relations with that country. While the line Laga hai misr ka bazaar dekho changed to Laga hai husn ka bazaar dekho in the movie soundtrack, the gramophone records, already sold in good numbers, are beyond redemption.

[[Modène]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Modène is a commune of 275 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Baharon Ki Manzil (1973 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1973 movies

Baharon Ki Manzil is a 1973 Pakistani movie directed by S. Suleman.

[[Mondragon, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Mondragon is a commune of 3,363 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Jaal (1973 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1973 movies

Jaal is a 1973 Pakistani Urdu colour movie. It is a musical and romantic movie. It was produced by Waheed Murad and directed by Iftikhar Khan. It was the first colour movie that was produced by Waheed Murad. The movie was released on 31 August 1973. It starred Waheed Murad, Nisho, Husna, Shaista Qaiser and Nanna. It was the second movie of Waheed Murad with Nisho, first being Mulaqat (released during the same year).

[[Aina (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1974 movies

Aina, (آئینہ) also known as The Mirror, is a 1974 Pakistani movie. It was directed by Nazr-ul-Islam. Singers are Nayyara Noor, Mehnaz and Alamgir. The movie starred Shabnam and Nadeem in the lead roles. It is the longest running Pakistani movie on record. The movie influenced many Indian directors such as Dharmesh Darshan's Raja Hindustani, Aziz Mirza's Chalte Chalte and Deepak Sareen's Aaina.

[[Beyond the Last Mountain]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1976 movies, English-language movies

Beyond the Last Mountain (1976) is a Pakistani English-language movie. It was directed and written by Javed Jabbar. Being Pakistan’s first and only English-language movieFebruary 2012, which was shown at the first Bombay International Film Festival in 1976, it was also released in Urdu version with title Musafir.

[[Maula Jatt]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1979 movies, Punjabi-language movies

Maula Jatt (مولا جٹ) is one of the most popular movies in the history of Pakistani cinema.October 2014 It is a Punjabi movie starring actor Sultan Rahi in the lead role and with Aseia and Mustafa Qureshi as the villain Noori Nuth.

Maula Jutt was a classic, a movie that scored heavily and reached cult status both in Pakistan and the Republic of India. Such was the impact of the movie that it was copied by movie makers in India and also in Pakistan where several movies with the suffix "Jatt" were made. However, no copy of this movie could ever hope to match the outstanding dialogues in the movie and the chemistry between Sultan Rahi and Mustafa Qureshi.

This movie belongs to a different genre and represents a culture which is so much part of the rural Punjab (Pakistan).

[[The Blood of Hussain]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1981 movies, Multilingual movies

The Blood of Hussain is a Pakistani movie directed by Jamil Dehlavi and released in 1980 (released in February 1981 in the UK). The movie was banned throughout Pakistan as the military junta led by General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq toppled the government of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto.

[[Shaani]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1989 movies, Urdu-language movies

Shanee is a 1989 Pakistani movie starring Babra Sharif, Sheri Malik and Ghulam Mohiuddin and directed by Saeed Rizvi. The movie was known for its special effects which were first used in Pakistan.

[[Argun River (Caucasus)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Russia, Geography of Georgia (country), Chechnya

The Argun River (Аргу́н) runs through the northern Caucasus, Georgia, and the Chechen Republic of Russia.

[[Capitán Sarmiento, Buenos Aires]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Argentina, 1961 establishments in South America, 20th-century establishments in Argentina

Capitán Sarmiento is a town in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. It is the head town of the Capitán Sarmiento Partido.

[[Please Forgive Me]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams songs, 1993 songs

"Please Forgive Me" is a single by Canadian rock singer Bryan Adams from 1993. The song was made as a bonus track on Adams compilation album So Far So Good. It is Adams's only Australian #1 single not written for a motion picture, and also reached #7 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100. "Please Forgive Me" is a slow power ballad written by Adams himself and Robert Lange. The song has an instrumental intro, which is only found on the album version of the song.

[[Children in Need]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Television programmes, Charity events, English-language television programs

BBC Children in Need is a British charity appeal. It is run by the BBC. It takes place every year in November. The appeal has raised over £1 billion since it started in 1980.

[[Have You Ever Really Loved a Woman?]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams songs, 1995 songs

"Have You Ever Really Loved a Woman?" is a 1995 song written by Bryan Adams, Michael Kamen and Robert John "Mutt" Lange for the movie Don Juan DeMarco. The melody is used as a musical motif throughout the movie, and the song is featured three times in the movie, twice performed by other artists in Spanish, and finally performed by Adams himself during the closing credits.  The Adams version of the song, which features flamenco guitarist Paco de Lucia, is featured on the soundtrack album and also on the album 18 Til I Die. It was at number one for five weeks on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States, making it the third number one song for the songwriting team, and went on to earn them their second Oscar nomination.

Various women's groups contacted Adams when the song became popular, which led to his publishing a series of books of photos, with all proceeds going to breast cancer research.

[[Pink Floyd discography]]

CATEGORIES: Pink Floyd, Discographies

Pink Floyd are an English progressive rock band. Pink Floyd has released fourteen studio albums, three live albums, eight compilations, three soundtracks, thirty-five singles, eleven music videos,  four video albums and three box-sets.

Formed in 1964, Pink Floyd was first known for their psychedelic or space rock music and in later years their progressive rock music. They are known for philosophical lyrics, sonic experimentation, innovative cover art, and big live shows. One of rock music's most successful acts, the group have sold over 210 million albums worldwide, including 74.5 million albums in the United States alone.

Pink Floyd had moderate mainstream success and were one of the most popular bands in the London underground music scene in the late 1960s led by Syd Barrett; however, Barrett's decline in health would eventually forced his band members to replace him with guitarist and singer David Gilmour. After Barrett left the group Pink Floyd released Ummagumma. The album was released as a double disc, the first disc contained songs performed live the other disc contained the new studio recorded songs. Singer and bass player Roger Waters gradually became the leader of the band in the mid-1970s, until 1985 when he left the group. The band recorded several albums, achieving worldwide success with The Dark Side of the Moon (1973), Wish You Were Here (1975), Animals (1977), and The Wall (1979) with all of them topping the American record chart with the exception of Animals. The Dark Side of the Moon is the third best-selling studio album in the world (not counting compilations and various artists soundtracks).  In 1985, Waters stated that Pink Floyd was no more, but the remaining members, led by Gilmour, continued recording and touring under the name Pink Floyd. Waters sued the remaining members for the rights to the name, Waters lost and the band enjoyed worldwide success with A Momentary Lapse of Reason (1987) and The Division Bell (1994).

[[Port Said Governorate]]

CATEGORIES: Governorates of Egypt

Port Said Governorate (محافظة بور سعيد) is one of the governorates of Egypt. It is in the northeast of the country. Its capital is the city of Port Said.

Port Said is on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea at the northern gate of the Suez Canal.

[[Indus Valley Bullfrog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The Indus Valley Bullfrog (Hoplobatrachus tigerinus) is a large species of frog found in Pakistan and the Republic of India.

[[Pothohari dialect]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Azad Jammu and Kashmir

Pothohari (or Potwari or Pahari-Potwari) is a dialect of Punjabi spoken in the Potwar district in northern Punjab.

Punjabi and Urdu/Hindi are spoken in a region that has had ethnic and identity conflict, so have been exposed to the dialect versus language question.

Pothohari was historically classified as dialect of Punjabi. Recently it was claimed as a language instead of being a dialect of Punjabi. However these claims are controversial.838 46

[[Chris Melling]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, British rugby league players, Sportspeople from Greater Manchester

Chris Melling (born 21 September 1984, Ashton-in-Makerfield, Greater Manchester) is an English rugby league player.  He plays for Harlequins RL in the European Super League. Melling also plays on the Great Britain national rugby league team.

Chris Melling likes to play full-back. He can also play several other positions.

[[Odia language]]

CATEGORIES: Dravidian languages, Languages of India

Odia (oṛiā), formerly known as Oriya, is an Indo-Aryan language, mainly spoken in the Indian state of Odisha. The language is also an official language of India. There are about 33 million people who speak Odia.

[[Aulaad (1962 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1962 movies, Urdu-language movies

Aulaad is a Pakistani Urdu movie. The movie was released on August 3, 1962.

[[Sangam (1964 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1964 movies, Urdu-language movies

Sangam is a Pakistani Urdu movie released in 1964. It was directed by Zahir Raihan. The movie stars Rosy Samad.

[[Diya Aur Toofan]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1969 movies, Urdu-language movies

Diya Aur Toofan (دیا اور طوفان) is a Pakistani Urdu romantic comedy movie. It is about a crazy doctor and the man who falls in love with his daughter. Pakistani reviewer Krid Urshla said in regards to the movie, "Mish ahn nekki longua rembran rembronz inhat rembrin", which translates to "simply smashing ... A titanic effort ... may be the best movie of all time."

[[Hero (1985 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1985 movies, Urdu-language movies

Hero is 1985 a Pakistani Urdu movie. It stars Waheed Murad, Babra Sharif, Mumtaz, Aslam Pervaiz, Saqi, Adil Murad and Nadeem. The movie was produced by Murad and directed by his friend Iqbal Yousuf.

[[Bulandi (1990 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1990 movies, Urdu-language movies

Bulandi (بلندی) is a 1990 Pakistani Urdu movie. It was directed by Javed Fazil and produced by Aslam Butt. The movie is also known as Vantage. Bulandi is a Lollywood movie starring by Nadeem, Samina Peerzada, Reema Khan, Shan, Madhiha Shah, Reema and Shaan.

[[Haseena Atom Bomb]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1990 movies

Haseena Atom Bomb is a 1990 cult Pakistani movie. It was directed by Saeed Ali Khan. The movie was first recorded in Pashto on a low budget. It was later dubbed in Urdu, the national language of Pakistan. The Urdu version became a national blockbuster.

[[Jeeva (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1995 movies, Urdu-language movies

Jeeva (جیوا) is a 1995 Urdu movie. It was directed by Syed Noor. The movie introduced Babar Ali and Resham into Lollywood and turned them into stars. Jeeva was also very well liked at the film festivals in other countries where it was shown. The shrine of Hazrat Ayub Ansari (reh) in Istanbul, Turkey was shown in this movie. Nadeem played the title role. This movie was a big milestone for Anwar Rafi who was struggling in many years. Famous folk singer Shoukat Ali sung his only duet song with Madam Noor Jehan

[[Jo Darr Gya Woh Marr Gya]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1995 movies, Urdu-language movies

Jo Darr Gya Woh Marr Gya (جو ڈر گیا وہ مر گیا) is a Pakistani Urdu movie which starred Neeli, Javed Sheikh, Atiqa Odho, Reema and Nadeem. The movie was released in the summer of 1995 and earned major revenue for its production studio. It was directed by Iqbal Kashmiri and was produced by Evernew Studios. The English title is Scared.

[[Mushkil]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1995 movies, Urdu-language movies

Mushkil (مشکل, difficult) is an Urdu movie which was released in 1995 across theaters in Pakistan. The movie dealt with the issue of child-camel jockeys illegally trafficked from the third world into the numerous Arab oildoms. The highlight of the movie was the stunning score composed by the late Amjad Bobby. Hit tracks included Dil ho gaya hai tera deewana and Mushkil hai barha mushkil hai.

[[Sargam (1995 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1995 movies, Urdu-language movies

Sargam is a Pakistani Urdu movie. It was directed by Syed Noor. The movie starring the singer Adnan Sami Khan and his former wife Zeba Bakhtiar. The movie was Khan's first and last movie. He composed some songs with Indian singer Asha Bhonsle. He created 10 songs for this movie. This is more songs than any other Pakistani movie. Most of the songs were very popular. A classical musician, Maharaj Ghulam Hussain Kathak appeared as an actor in this movie. The song "Woh Mujhey" was sung by the popular Pakistani pop singer Hadiqa Kiyani. It was an instant hit for her and increased her popularity.

[[Chor Machaye Shor (1996 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1996 movies

Chor Machaye Shor (چور مچائے شور) is a Pakistani Urdu movie. It was directed by Syed Noor. The movie stars Babar Ali, Resham and Sahiba. The movie was released in 1996. It is a remake of Punjabi movie Sohra te Jawai

[[Ghunghat (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1996 movies, Urdu-language movies

Ghoongat (also spelled Ghunghat) (گھونگٹ) is an Urdu movie released in the summer of 1996. It starred Mohsin Khan, Andaleeb, Shaan, Resham and Arbaaz Khan. The movie marked Shaan's comeback into the Lahore industry and won the actor many plaudits for his performance as the villain. Ghoongat was directed by Syed Noor and produced by Shezad Rafique.

[[Deewane Tere Pyar Ke]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1997 movies, Urdu-language movies

Deewane Tere Pyaar Key (دیوانے تیرے پیار کے, English title: Love Crazy) is an Urdu film which was released in March 1997. It was directed by Syed Noor and produced by Evernew Studios.

[[Sangam (1997 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1997 movies

Sangam is a Pakistani Urdu movie released in 1997, directed by Syed Noor and starring Resham, Shaan, Salim Sheikh and Sana.

[[Jinnah (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1998 movies, Movies set in Asia, Movies set in India, British movies, English-language movies

Jinnah is a biographical movie about the founder of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah. It was directed by Jamil Dehlavi and written by Akbar S. Ahmed and Jamil Dehlavi. The movie was released in 1998 in London, the United Kingdom and Pakistan.

[[1870 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: 1870, Atlantic hurricane seasons

The 1870 Atlantic hurricane season was a hurricane season in the Atlantic Ocean. There weren't many storms in it.

[[Kannada cinema]]

CATEGORIES: Cinema of India, Karnataka

Kannada cinema is movies made in the Indian state of Karnataka. Most of the movies are made in the Kannada language. Some are in Konkani or Tulu languages. This part of the Indian film industry is also called Sandalwood.

[[Monrovia, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Monrovia is a city in California, United States.

[[Responsible government]]

CATEGORIES: Government

Responsible government is a principle of some democratic governments. It is not the same as a government with responsibility. 

A responsible government is one in  which there is a degree of accountability towards parliament. There is also the fundamental concept of Bicameralism. For example, in the United Kingdom the accountability tends towards the Lower House (House of Commons), as the upper House (House of Lords) is not wholly elected. Thus, there is a better representation of those who voted for the government that holds the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty.

In the government of a country that uses responsible government, the leaders of the executive branch of government (called the cabinet) are also members of the legislature. Also, the cabinet must have the support of the majority of the legislature to stay in power. If it loses the support of the legislature, there will be an election or a different political party will make a new cabinet.

Countries that use responsible government usually have parliamentary systems of government. Some examples of countries that have responsible government are the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia.

In countries that do not have responsible government, the cabinet and the legislature are each elected separately.  This system has more separation of powers than a system with responsible government. Some examples of countries that do not have a system of responsible government are the United States and France. 

[[Vistlip]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands, 2000s music groups, Visual kei bands

vistlip is a Japanese visual kei rock band. The band formed in 7 July 2007 and is currently signed to Delfi Sound and Marvelous Entertainment.

[[Trang]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Thailand

Trang is the one of the southern provinces of Thailand. The province has an area about 5000. It is located on the Andaman Sea, and contains 46 islands together with the mainland area. Most of the mainland area is hills. The important rivers that flows through the province, are the Trang River and Palian River. The rivers flow between the Khao Luang mountain range and the Khao Banthat mountain range.

Trang used to be a port involved in foreign trade and transportation. Trang was the first province in Thailand where rubber trees were planted. Governor Mahison Phakdi brought rubber from Malaysia and planted it here in 1899. Rubber is now considered an important product of Thailand.

The monsoon season on the Andaman Coast runs from June to September, when there are very big storms and a lot of rain. The province is driest during October to May.

In the past, Trang's name was Ta-Rang, a Malay name. The Thai people later shortened the name into one syllable.

[[Joseph Nathaniel French]]

CATEGORIES: American architects, 1888 births, 1975 deaths

Joseph Nathaniel French, Sr. (October 24, 1888 – February 28, 1975) was an architect with Albert Kahn Associates, Inc. from 1914 to 1967. He was the chief architect for the Fisher Building in Detroit, Michigan.

[[The Piper at the Gates of Dawn]]

CATEGORIES: Pink Floyd albums, Debut albums, 1967 albums, Rock albums

The Piper at the Gates of Dawn is Pink Floyd's first album. Many people think it is one of the most influential albums in history. It had a very big influence on the psychedelic rock scene of the time, and also on the music that people made afterward. It is the only Pink Floyd album with Syd Barrett as the leader, although Barrett was on some of the next album, A Saucerful of Secrets.

The lyrics for Piper were mostly written by Syd Barrett, and are often whimsical, playful, or childlike. The album has songs about space, scarecrows, gnomes, bicycles and fairytales. Some parts of the album, like "Interstellar Overdrive", are instrumental and have no singing on them.

Special limited editions of Piper were released to mark its 30th anniversary in 1997, and its 40th anniversary in 2007.

[[It's Only Love (Bryan Adams song)]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams songs, 1985 songs

"It's Only Love" is a hit rock duet recorded by Grammy Award winning singers Bryan Adams and Tina Turner. It was included on Bryan Adams' album Reckless and Tina Turner's live album Tina Live in Europe, as well as being added to both artists' greatest hits compilations: Adams' Anthology and Turner's All the Best. It reached number 15 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the U.S. and number 29 in the UK. The 12" single included the 1985 live version that would later appear on the 1988 album Tina Live in Europe.

[[Tina Turner]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Actors from Tennessee, African American actors, African-American singers, Organ transplant recipients, People with cancer, American Buddhists, American movie actors, American pop singers, American R&B singers, American rock singers, American dancers, American singer-songwriters, American autobiographers, American soul musicians, Swiss movie actors, Swiss singers, Swiss musicians, Grammy Award winners, Singers from Tennessee, Writers from Tennessee, Musicians from Tennessee, Singers from Missouri, Musicians from Missouri, Writers from Missouri, Actors from Missouri, People who lost citizenship

Tina Turner (born Anna Mae Bullock; November 26, 1939) is an American-born Swiss singer-songwriter, actress, dancer and entertainer. Her success, dominance, popularity and consistent contributions to the rock music genre got her the title, "The Queen of Rock & Roll". She is known worldwide for her overpowering and energetic stage presence, powerful vocals, ground-breaking concerts as well as for her long, well-proportioned legs that are considered the most famous in show business.  

She was listed on Rolling Stone's list The Immortals – The Greatest Artists of All Time. Turner is a Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductee, and she is also represented in the Grammy Hall of Fame by two of her recordings: "River Deep - Mountain High" (1999) and "Proud Mary" (2003). Turner has won eight Grammy Awards. She is a Buddhist.

Turner has been living in the lake house Château Algonquin in Küsnacht, near to Zürich, since 1994.

In April 2013, Turner became a Swiss citizen and renounced her American citizenship.

In 2013, three weeks after her wedding to Erwin Bach, she suffered a stroke and had to learn to walk again. 

In 2016, she was diagnosed with intestinal cancer. Turner used homeopathic remedies to treat her high blood pressure but caused kidney failure. Her chances of receiving a kidney were low, and she was urged to start dialysis. Turner wanted to commit assisted suicide, but her husband donated his kidney in April 2017.

[[Here I Am (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams songs

"Here I Am" is a song by Canadian singer Bryan Adams. The song was written and recorded in 2002 for the movie Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron and was both released on the soundtrack and as a single. The single reached #1 in Taiwan and Portugal. The song won a ASCAP Award and was nominated for Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song.

[[Open Road]]

CATEGORIES: Bryan Adams songs, 2004 songs

"Open Road" is the first single from Bryan Adams' 2004 album "Room Service". In the summer of 2005, the song was used as the theme song in ESPN's SportsCenter series 50 States in 50 Days.

[[Ithaca, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New York, County seats in New York

Ithaca is a city in upstate New York, America. It was named after the Greek island of Ithaca. Cornell University and Ithaca College are in the city.

[[Ithaca]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Greece

Ithaca (Ithaka or Ithaki; Ιθάκη) is one of the Ionian Islands on the west coast of Greece. It is about 20 long and 6 wide. In 2001 there were about 3,000 people living there.

Odysseus was said to be the king of Ithaca in the epic poem the Odyssey, which was written in the Ancient Greek language. It is possible that this ancient island is in a place different from the modern island.

[[Clitoral glans]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the female reproductive system

The clitoral glans (glans clitoridis) is a part of the clitoris found on the outside of the vagina.

[[Israeli–Palestinian conflict]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Israel, Politics of Palestine, Palestinian territories, Arab–Israeli conflict, Nationalism

The Israeli–Palestinian conflict is a war and dispute that is still going on between the State of Israel and the Palestinians (some of which are represented by the Palestinian Authority, Fatah, or Hamas). It is part of the wider Arab–Israeli conflict. The dispute is over a specific area of land (what used to be the Mandatory Palestine area) that Palestinians and Israelis both claim. Many attempts have been made to make a two-state solution, which would mean an independent Palestinian state and an Israeli state, dividing the land between the two groups.

Right now, the vast majority of Israelis and Jews, according to many polls, agree a two-state solution is the best way to end the conflict. Most Palestinians view the West Bank and Gaza Strip as the area of their future state, which is a view also accepted by most Israelis. A handful of academics advocate a one-state solution, where all of Israel, the Gaza Strip, and West Bank would become a bi-national state (a country for both Israelis and Palestinians) with equal rights for all. However, there are big areas of disagreement over the form of any final agreement and also about the level of trust each side has in the other in following an agreement.

In 1920, 1937, 1948, 1967, 2000, 2003, 2006 and 2021 there were agreements to split the land into two countries, away from the original plan of a Jewish state in all of mandatory Palestine (Jordan and Israel). Israel accepted all of them. Every other plan has been rejected by most factions of Arabs or Palestinians. 

[[RPM (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: Canada

RPM was a Canadian music magazine that had song and album charts for Canada. It was started by Walt Grealis in February 1964 and printed with the help of Stan Klees who owned a record label. RPM was printed until November 2000.

RPM stood for "Records, Promotion, Music". Sometimes the magazine was also called RPM Weekly and RPM Magazine.

[[Grammy Award for Best Song Written for a Motion Picture, Television or Other Visual Media]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Awards

The Grammy Award for Best Song Written for a Motion Picture, Television or Other Visual Media has been awarded since 1988. From 1988 to 1999 it was called the Grammy Award for Best Song Written Specifically for a Motion Picture or Television. The award is presented to the songwriter(s).

Years reflect the year in which the Grammy Awards were presented, for works released in the previous year.

[[Bonnie Raitt]]

CATEGORIES: People from Burbank, California, Singers from California, Musicians from California, American blues singers, American blues musicians, American guitarists, American political activists, 1949 births, Living people, Warner Bros. Records artists

Bonnie Lynn Raitt (born November 8, 1949) is an American blues singer-songwriter who was born in Burbank, California.  Raitt is best known for her songs "Nick of Time", "Something to Talk About", and the ballad "I Can't Make You Love Me."   Raitt is also an avid political activist and has received nine Grammy Awards in her career.

[[Melanie Chisholm]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, English pop musicians, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Merseyside, Spice Girls

Melanie Chisholm (born 1974) is an English singer-songwriter and television personality best known as one of the five members of English girl group the Spice Girls, who was nicknamed "Sporty Spice". As a solo artist she has released four albums and was nominated for a BRIT and ECHO Awards and charted at the top of the Billboard Dance Chart in the US in late 2000.

[[Chicane (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, British record producers, Electronic music, English songwriters, Entertainers from Buckinghamshire

Chicane is the stage name of English musician and record producer Nick Bracegirdle. He was born on 28 February, 1971, in Chalfont St Giles, Buckinghamshire.

Chicane is known for the singles "Offshore", an Ibiza dance anthem included in thousands of compilations in both chill-out and dance versions; "Saltwater", which featured vocals by Clannad member Máire Brennan and is one of the most well-known and popular singles of the trance genre; and the UK number-one hit "Don't Give Up", featuring vocals by Bryan Adams, and also a top ten hit on singles charts across Europe.

[[Wish You Were Here (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Pink Floyd albums, Concept albums, Progressive rock albums

Wish You Were Here is a concept album by Pink Floyd. It was recorded at Abbey Road Studios between January and July 1975 and released on 15 September 1975. The album would later be thought of as one of Pink Floyd's greatest albums and was ranked 209 on Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time list. Its lyrics, written by Roger Waters, talked about the music industry, and the market-oriented record companies' not having an understanding and interest for musicians. The album also pays tribute to Syd Barrett, Pink Floyd's former guitarist and chief songwriter, especially with "Shine On You Crazy Diamond" and the "Wish You Were Here" title track. The album sold 10 million copies worldwide.

[[Animals (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Pink Floyd albums, Concept albums, Progressive rock albums

Animals is a concept album by English progressive rock band Pink Floyd, released on 23 January 1977 in the United Kingdom and on 2 February 1977 in the United States. The album proved to be a success in the UK, where it reached #2 in the era of punk music.  It was also a success in the U.S., reaching #3 on the Billboard album charts (#1 and #2 were Hotel California by the Eagles, and the soundtrack to the Barbra Streisand film A Star Is Born). However, it was on the American charts for only six months even though it has continued to sell solidly, to the extent of its having gone quadruple platinum, according to the RIAA.

In the UK, the British Phonographic Industry awarded the album Gold (100,000 units) in 1977. It has yet to achieve Platinum.

[[Space rock]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music

Space rock is a subgenre of rock music. The term originally referred to a group of early mostly British 1970s progressive rock and psychedelic bands such as Hawkwind and Pink Floyd. The music is characterised by slow, lengthy instrumental passages dominated by synthesisers, experimental guitar work and science fiction lyrical themes. Later the words were changed to mean a series of late 1980s British alternative rock bands that drew from earlier influences to create a more melodic but still ambient form of pop music.

[[The Final Cut (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Pink Floyd albums

The Final Cut is the twelfth studio album by Pink Floyd. It was recorded at various studios in the UK from July to December 1982. It is the final Pink Floyd studio album with the band's bassist and primary songwriter Roger Waters.

The album is predominantly the work of Waters. It is the only Pink Floyd album on which the credit for writing every song is given to Waters alone. Keyboardist Rick Wright had been fired by Waters during the recording of The Wall, so this is the only Pink Floyd album on which Wright does not participate at all. Meanwhile, David Gilmour sings lead vocals on only one of the album's twelve songs, the rest being sung entirely by Waters.

During the recording of The Final Cut, there was a lot of tension between Waters and the other members of the band, particularly Gilmour, who now says that he doesn't like most of the album. For these and other reasons, it is sometimes regarded as a Roger Waters solo album rather than a true Pink Floyd album.

None of the album's songs has ever been performed live by Pink Floyd, though some have been performed live by Waters during solo tours. Waters' dominance on the album is most clearly seen on the back cover, which reads: The Final Cut: A Requiem for the Post-War Dream - by Roger Waters, performed by Pink Floyd.

[[A Momentary Lapse of Reason]]

CATEGORIES: Pink Floyd albums

A Momentary Lapse of Reason is the thirteenth studio album by Pink Floyd, the band's first release after the departure of Roger Waters from the band in 1985. The album reached #3 on both the U.S. and UK charts. It was released in the UK and the rest of Europe on EMI and on Columbia Records for the rest of the world.

[[Mmhmm]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums

Mmhmm is the fourth album made by Relient k. It has other spellings because it's a strange word. It is different from the bands previous albums, because it's heavier but also softer at times with the music. It marks the time where the band became more serious, using fewer joke songs than before.

This was their first album on their record label Capitol Records. It was also the last CD which Brian Pitman (Relient k bassist) recorded with the band.

The album was released again, with a new song which was first found on an EP. In 2005, the album was given gold status, because it had sold half a million copies in America. The album had a few singles which were played only on Christian radio such as "High of 75" and "I so hate consequences".

[[Aboriginal art]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian culture, Art movements

Aboriginal art is art made by indigenous Australian people. It includes work made in many different ways including painting on leaves, wood carving, rock carving, sculpting, ceremonial clothing and sand painting. Aboriginal art is closely linked to religious ceremonies or rituals. It is an important part of the world's oldest continuous cultural tradition, based on totems and the Dreaming. 

Australian Indigenous art is the oldest ongoing tradition of art in the world. The earliest artworks were rock carvings, body painting and ground designs, which date back more than 30,000 years.'''

Symbols are used in aboriginal art, to show different things. While the meaning of these symbols is often shared, they can change meaning within the same piece, and they can be different between different groups.  Aboriginal art is a language in itself, communicating through beautiful patterns. This started around 30,000 to 40,000 years ago.

Some aboriginal artists sell their artwork for a lot of money. In 2007 Pitjantjatjara artist Yannima Pikarli Tommy Watson sold a painting for AU$240,000.

In 2010 the Queensland Government said that it would have the first two Tilt Trains painted by indigenous artists Judy Watson and Alick Tipoti. With seven carriages and two locomotives, the trains will be 185 metres long, making them the biggest modern aboriginal art piece. The Tilt Trains will run between Brisbane and Cairns.

[[Now or Never]]

CATEGORIES: High School Musical, 2008 songs

Now or Never is the first song off the soundtrack from High School Musical 3:Senior Year. It is about the East High Wildcats' final game of basketball before they leave East High.  It was released on iTunes Music Store on September 2, 2008.

[[What Time Is It? (song)]]

CATEGORIES: High School Musical, 2007 songs

What Time Is It? is a song off the soundtrack for High School Musical 2.

[[List of Polish presidents]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Poland, Lists of heads of state

List of the Presidents of Poland (officially President of the Republic of Poland) and other Polish heads of state since 1918 (people who held title other than President)

[[A.E.K. Athens F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Greek football clubs, Sport in Athens, 1924 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Greece

A.E.K. Athens F.C. (A.E.K. Αθλητική Ένωση Κωνσταντινουπόλεως) is a Greek football club. The team is based in Nea Filadelfia, Athens. It is one of the most successful Greek clubs. AEK was established on 13 April 1924 by Greek people who left Constantinople (Istanbul) during the Greco-Turkish War. AEK Athens, is the only Greek football club that has been advanced to the Semi-Finals of the UEFA Cup, in 1977. They have rivalries with Panathinakos, Olympiacos, and PAOK.

[[Progesterone]]

CATEGORIES: Steroid hormones

Progesterone is a steroid hormone. In animals, it is made from cholesterol. It is the base for making certain estrogens and androgens. In animals, it is produced by their body mainly during the second half of the menstrual cycle. During pregnancy it is produced in higher quantities.

Willard Myron Allen co-discovered progesterone with his anatomy professor George Washington Corner at the University of Rochester Medical School in 1933 year. Allen discovered temperature needed to melt it and its weight. He also gave it the name Progesterone based on Progestational Steroidal ketone.

In one plant, Juglans regia, progesterone has been found. Also progesterone-like steroids are found in Dioscorea mexicana.

Progesterone level is low in children and postmenopausal women.

[[Spontaneous generation]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Biology

The theory known as spontaneous generation held that complex, living organisms are generated by decaying organic substances. Mice might spontaneously appear in stored grain or maggots could spontaneously appear in meat.

According to Aristotle it was a readily observable truth that aphids arise from the dew which falls on plants, fleas from putrid matter, mice from dirty hay, crocodiles from  logs rotting at the bottom of bodies of water, and so forth. In the 17th century these things started to be questioned.

Sir Thomas Browne wrote a book called Pseudodoxia Epidemica. He subtitled it Enquiries into Very many Received Tenets, and Commonly Presumed Truths. He published it in 1646. He wrote it as an attack on false beliefs and "vulgar errors". 

Scientists failed to accept the conclusions he reached. For example, Alexander Ross, a scientist who lived at the same time as Browne, wrote about it: "To question this (he meant: to question spontaneous generation) is to question reason, sense and experience.  If he doubts of this let him go to Egypt, and there he will find the fields swarming with mice, begot of the mud of Nylus, to the great calamity of the inhabitants."

In 1546 the physician Girolamo Fracastoro theorized that epidemic diseases were caused by tiny, invisible particles or "spores", which might not be living creatures, but this was not widely accepted. Next, Robert Hooke published the first drawings of a microorganism in 1665. He is also credited for naming the cell which he discovered while observing cork samples.

In 1676, Anthony van Leeuwenhoek discovered microorganisms that were probably protozoa and bacteria. This sparked new interest in the microscopic world. 

The first step was taken by the Italian Francesco Redi. In 1668, Redi proved that no maggots appeared in meat when flies were prevented from laying eggs.  From the 17th century onwards it was gradually shown that, at least in the case of all the higher and readily visible organisms, the previous sentiment regarding spontaneous generation was false. The alternative seemed to be omne vivum ex ovo: that every living thing came from a pre-existing living thing (literally, everything from an egg). 

In 1768 Lazzaro Spallanzani proved that microbes came from the air, and could be killed by boiling. Yet it was not until 1861 that Louis Pasteur performed a series of careful experiments. With these experiments, Pasteur proved that organisms such as bacteria and fungi do not appear in nutrient-rich media of their own accord in non-living material. This experiment supported cell theory.

[[Black-necked crane]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Asia, Plants and animals of Kashmir, Cranes

The black-necked crane (Grus nigricollis), also known as Tibetan crane, is a large bird and medium-sized crane. 

It is 139 cm (55 in) long, it has a 235 cm (7.8 ft) wingspan and weights 5.5 kg (12 lbs). It is whitish-gray crane with a black head, red crown patch, black upper neck and legs, and white patch to the rear of the eye. It has black primaries and secondaries. Both sexes are similar. In Kashmir, it is the state/regional bird of the disputed territory.

[[Mother of the Nation]]

CATEGORIES: Nationalism, Women

The term Mother of the Nation refers to a female leader or female politician who led her country to independence. She may also be a person who is highly honored by her country.

[[Ratatouille]]

CATEGORIES: French food

Ratatouille  is an old French Provençal stewed vegetable dish, coming from Nice. The full name of the dish is ratatouille niçoise. The word ratatouille may come from the word touiller, which means "to stir up". It includes tomato sauce and cucumber.

[[Die Welt]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Germany, 1946 establishments in Germany

Die Welt is a daily German newspaper. It is conservative and free market in its editorial policy. It has an circulation of about 210,000 newspapers a day.

Die Welt was founded in 1946. The founder was the British Military Government in Germany.

In the 1950's the Axel Springer Verlag bought the newspaper.

[[Die tageszeitung]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Germany

die tageszeitung (short taz) is a German newspaper.

The taz is a daily newspaper. It's circulation is about 54,000 newspapers a day.

The taz is a left-winged newspaper. It started in 1978 in West Berlin as an "alternative" project. Until today it's published by a co-operative.

[[Benrath]]

CATEGORIES: Düsseldorf

Benrath is a part of Düsseldorf. It belongs to Düsseldorf since 1929.

[[Franklin, Wisconsin]]

Franklin, Wisconsin can be one of six places:

[[Wallaby]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods, Marsupials of Australia

Wallabies are marsupials from the islands of Australia, Tasmania, New Zealand and New Guinea. They are small- to medium-sized kangaroos. There are 30 different types of wallabies that live in many types of habitats, including rocky areas, grasslands, forests and swamps.

[[Suphan Buri Province]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history, History of Thailand

Suphanburi was an ancient province. Researchers found evidence that is over 2500 years old. Artifacts have been found from the Stone Age, Iron Age and successive cultures including the Suwannapoom period, Funan, Aummarawadee and Sriwichai.

The old name of Suphanburi was Tarawadeesrisuphannapoom or Phan tumaburi, on a bank of Ta Jeen River. In the Ayuttaya period it was a capital city. Suphanburi was an outpost city and an important granary.

[[Sukhothai]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Thailand

Sukhothai is a town in the lower portion of northern Thailand. It is about 440 km from Bangkok. There are about 6,596.092 km² of the area.

[[American Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League, 1936 establishments in North America

The American Hockey League or AHL, is a professional ice hockey league based in the United States and Canada. It is considered the farm league of the National Hockey League. The major championship in the AHL that the two winning teams of their conferences play for is the Calder Cup. The oldest current team in the AHL is the Hershey Bears which began play in 1938.

[[Beat Crusaders]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands

Beat Crusaders were a Japanese rock band. They were known for wearing masks in public. They did not wear their masks during concerts. There were 5 members in this band. The members were Hidaka Touru (vocals and guitar), Kubota Masahiko (bass), Katou Tarou (guitar), Mashi-ta (drums), and Keitaimo (keyboards). The band started in 1997. Almost all of their songs were written in English. Their music genre is said to be melodic hard core, digital rock, and power pop. 

[[Sound Horizon]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese rock bands, Progressive metal bands, Folk music groups

Sound Horizon is a Japanese musical group. They released their first major album in 2004 with  Elysion ~Rakuen e no Zensōkyoku~. This album started as the number 14 most popular in Japan. They call themselves a "fantasy band". The band members change according to the song. The composer, Revo is the only person who always participates in the band.

[[John Vane (bushranger)]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1906 deaths, Australian criminals, Bushrangers, People from New South Wales

Early Life

John Vane was an Australian bushranger who became a member of Ben Hall's gang. He was one of the few members of the gang to die of old age, and not to be killed.

Vane was born at Jerry Plains near Singleton, New South Wales on 28 June 1842. His grandparents had come to Australia as convicts but his father and mother were seen as respectable and wealthy. They lived at Kelso, near Bathurst before moving to Jerry Plains in about 1841. When John was about six years old the family moved back to Kelso and then onto Teasdale Park (Carcoar), near Hobbys Yards. Teasdale Park was owned by George Chesher (Cheshire) who would become Vane's father-in-law. The Vane family moved to Kempfield, near the Abercrombie caves where they stayed for a number of years. John worked as a shepherd and the money he was paid helped his father buy land, probably their Wattle Grove home.

1850 John Vane and his brother William (Billy) went to work at James Hanrahan's Wentworth Gully Station near the Weddin Mountains. It is not known if all the family went or just the two boys. Billy taught John to ride horses while at Hanrahan's. They stayed there for about a year and returned to the Kempfield district.

John was 14 years when sent to Bathurst, apprenticed to a blacksmith and wheelwright named McDonald. He then went on to the Turon goldfields where he saved a some money before it was stolen from him. He then drove a bullock team between Orange and Lambing Flat (Young).

He was described in 1863 as being about six feet tall, with dark hair and a ruddy complexion. He worked as a stockman, looking after cattle and was said to be an excellent horse rider.

[[Guns and Roses -- Ik Junoon]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1999 movies, Urdu-language movies

Guns and Roses - Ik Junoon (گنز اینڈ روزز—اک جنون) is a Pakistani movie which was released in 1999, and it starred Shaan, Resham, Meera and Faisal Rehman. Faisal Rehman made a comeback with this movie, after taking a sabbatical from the movie industry which spanned over a decade. The music was composed by M Arshad.

The movie is mainly known for its soundtrack which included hits like Jeena Hai Jeena Tau Hai, Khat, and Qeher. Tanvir Fatima Rehman produced the movie.

[[Inteha (1999 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1999 movies

Inteha (انتہا) is a Pakistani Urdu movie. It was released in 1999 across theaters in Pakistan. The movie was Samina Peerzada's debut directorial attempt, and established the careers of its two leading men Humayun Saeed and Zeeshan Sikander. Incidentally, both the actors also made their debut with Inteha.

[[Mujhe Jeene Do (1999 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 1999 movies, Urdu-language movies

Mujhe Jeene Do is a 1999 Urdu movie. It is directed by Javed Sheikh. The movie stars Meera, Babar Ali, Sana and Javed Sheikh. The music is by Amjad Bobby.

[[Cloud computing]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Internet, Computer networking, Metaphors

Cloud computing is when computing services are provided by a company or place outside of where they are being used. It is like the way in which electricity is sent to users: they simply use the electricity that is sent to them and do not need to worry where the electricity is from or how it is made and brought to them. Every month, they pay only for what they used and nothing more. The idea behind cloud computing is similar: The user can simply use storage, computing power, or development environments, without having to worry how they work behind the scenes.

The cloud is a metaphor for the Internet based on how it is described in computer network diagrams. Just as how in the real world, clouds hide parts of the sky from sight, the cloud in computing hides the complex infrastructure that makes the Internet work. It is a type of computing in which IT-related actions are provided “as a service”, allowing users to access these services through the Internet ("in the cloud"). They do not have to know or control the technologies behind them, preventing them from running into ethical and legal problems.

According to the IEEE, cloud computing is a concept where information is placed on servers and sent over the Internet to other devices, such as computers, laptops, handhelds, and sensors. It includes the idea of having software as a service (SaaS), such as Web 2.0, that depend on the Internet to meet the needs of their users. For example, Google has made several office suite apps which are accessed from a web browser. Unlike other software that does the same tasks, including Microsoft Office, the software and data are stored on Google's servers, not on the machine in which they are used.

[[Avant-garde music]]

CATEGORIES: Music genres

Avant-garde music, or experimental music, is a type of music that is meant to push the boundaries of "what music is." It started in the 1940s and 1950s after World War II. Some famous avant-garde composers were John Cage, Karlheinz Stockhausen, and Henry Cowell.

[[Red deer]]

CATEGORIES: Deer, Mammals of Asia, Mammals of Europe

The red deer (Cervus elaphus) is one of the largest deer species. The red deer lives in most of Europe, the Caucasus Mountains region, Asia Minor and parts of western and central Asia, in Kashmir as the state animal. They can also be found in the Atlas Mountains region between Algeria and Tunisia in northwestern Africa. They are the only species of deer in Africa. Red deer have been introduced to other areas including Australia, New Zealand and Argentina. In many parts of the world the meat (venison) from red deer is widely used as a food source.

[[Lisa Gerrard]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Contraltos

Lisa Gerrard (born 12 April 1961)  is an Australian musician, singer and composer who rose to fame as part of the group Dead Can Dance with former music partner Brendan Perry. 

Gerrard received a Golden Globe award and an Academy Award nomination for the score for the 2000 film Gladiator on which she teamed up with Hans Zimmer.

[[Stop sign]]

CATEGORIES: Traffic signs

The stop sign is a sign that is often placed at crossroads, when a road does not have traffic lights. This sign instructs the drivers to stop when they reach the crossroad and wait for other vehicles to pass. They can only proceed when the road is clear. This sign is one of the most significant and well-known signs of road traffic.

[[Salwar kameez]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing, Pakistani culture, National symbols of Pakistan

Salwar kameez (also spelled shalwar kameez or shalwar qameez) is a traditional dress worn by both women and men in Southern Asia. Salvars or shalvars are loose pajama-like trousers. The legs are wide at the top, and narrow at the bottom. The kameez is a long shirt or tunic. The side seams (known as the chaak) are left open below the waist-line, which gives the wearer greater freedom of movement. It is the most common dress for men in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

[[Zayin]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Zayin is the seventh letter of the Hebrew alphabet. It is also spelled zain or zayn or simply zay.

The Phoenician letter gave rise to the Greek zeta (Ζ), Etruscan z , Latin Z, and  Cyrillic Ze З.

[[Resh]]

CATEGORIES: Hebrew alphabet

Resh is the twentieth letter of the Hebrew alphabet.

[[Ocimum tenuiflorum]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae, Herbs

Ocimum tenuiflorum (also known as Ocimum sanctum, Tulsi,  Tulasī) is an plant in the family Lamiaceae. It is also called Holy Basil.

Holy Basil, as the name suggest has a holy meaning for people of India, especially towards North and South India. It is usually placed or grown in every household in India and carries religious meanings. In bigger households, the holy basil or tulsi plant is placed in the centre of the house and prayers are offered in the morning time. People usually light an incense stick or agarbatti and pour water on the plant during the prayer.

[[Allspice]]

CATEGORIES: Spices

Allspice (also called Jamaica pepper, Kurundu, Myrtle pepper, pimento, allspice berries, or newspice) is a spice which is the dried unripe fruit of the Pimenta dioica plant, a tree native to the West Indies, southern Mexico and Central America. The tree Pimenta dioica is from the myrtle family (Myrtaceae), and it is very valued for its berries. The allspice was named because the flavor of the berry is like a mixture of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. It is used very much in baking, mostly for making mincemeat and mixed pickling spice. It was discovered first by the early Spanish explorers, who mistook it for a type of pepper.

Allspice is the only spice grown in the Western Hemisphere. But after that, the wild trees were cut down to get the berries and only a few allspice are left. There are many plantations in Mexico and Central America, too. However, the best allspice comes from Jamaica where the weather and soil are best for the berries.

[[Peony]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers, Saxifragales

The peony or paeony (Paeonia) is the only genus in the flowering plant family Paeoniaceae. They are native to Asia, southern Europe and western North America. It is the national flower of China.

[[Liriodendron tulipifera]]

CATEGORIES: Magnoliaceae, Plants of North America

American tulip tree (Liriodendron tulipifera), also called tulip poplar or yellow poplar is a type of tree. It is one of the two species in the genus Liriodendron. L. tulipifera can be found in Eastern North America. The tree can grow to over 50. It often has no limbs until it reaches 25-30 m (80-100 feet) in height. This makes it a good tree for timber. 

[[ActionScript]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

ActionScript is a scripting language similar to JavaScript. It is used for Adobe Flash and Adobe Flex.

[[Sean Kingston]]

CATEGORIES: American rap musicians from Florida, Jamaican singers, People from Kingston, Jamaica, Singers from Miami, Florida, 1990 births, Living people

Kisean Anderson (born February 3, 1990) better known by his stage name Sean Kingston, is a Jamaican-American reggae singer, songwriter, rapper and record producer. He is best known for his number 1 single "Beautiful Girls". On May 29, 2011, Kingston was seriously injured along with a female passenger in a jet ski accident in Miami, Florida. He was reported to be in critical condition.

[[Galaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 video games, Arcade games, Game Boy Color games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Virtual Console games, Xbox 360 Live Arcade games, Namco video games

Galaga is a sci-fi arcade game released by Namco in 1981. It is the sequel to Galaxian. In this game, the player controls a spaceship and shoots enemies coming down in different directions.

The game was published by Chunsoft and developed by Namco.

[[Funker Vogt]]

CATEGORIES: German musical groups, Aggrotech

Funker Vogt is a German aggrotech band, formed by Gerrit Thomas and Jens Kästel in 1995. 

[[Metropolis Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Electronic music record labels, Independent record labels, 1995 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Pennsylvania

Metropolis Records is a Philadelphia, Pennsylvania based record label, distributor, and mail-order store specializing in the electro-industrial, synthpop, futurepop, darkwave, and gothic musical genres.

[[Apoptygma Berzerk]]

CATEGORIES: Futurepop, Electronic music bands, Musical groups established in 1989, Norwegian musical groups, Rock bands

Apoptygma Berzerk is a Norwegian  musical group. They have achieved success with a brand of upbeat and danceable synthpop, winning awards and top-10 spots in Germany and Scandinavia. Apoptygma Berzerk (abbreviated to APB or APOP) has toured Europe, North America, South America and Israel with bands such as VNV Nation, Beborn Beton and Unheilig.

[[VNV Nation]]

CATEGORIES: Futurepop

VNV Nation are an electronic music band originally from Wexford and London, now based in Hamburg, that combines elements of trance, synthpop and electronic body music (EBM), into what they call futurepop. Earlier works also include some electro-industrial influences. The members are Ronan Harris and Mark Jackson. 

[[Synth-pop]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic music, Synth-pop

Synth-pop is a subgenre of pop music in which the synthesizer is the main musical instrument. An electronic music genre, synthpop is additionally influenced by rock genres such as New Wave music and punk rock, as well as disco  music. It is most closely associated with the era between the late 1970s and early to middle 1980s, although it has continued to exist and develop ever since.

[[Futurepop]]

CATEGORIES: Futurepop, Synth-pop, Electronic dance music

Futurepop is a type of electronic dance music which uses influences from the genre synthpop (like song structure and vocal style), uplifting trance (grandiose and arpeggiated synthesizer melodies), and EBM. The name was created by Ronan Harris (of VNV Nation) and Stephan Groth (of Apoptygma Berzerk) while trying to describe the style of music their bands produced. 

[[Blutengel]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, Futurepop

Blutengel (Blood Angel) are a German futurepop musical group with a gothic appearance. Blutengel was formed in 1998 by singer Chris Pohl (also of the groups Terminal Choice, Tumor, and Miss Construction and the owner of the Fear Section label) after he had decided to give up the preceding project, Seelenkrank (which had released two albums), due to contractual problems. The lyrics are written primarily in German and English and are presented with male and female vocals.

[[The Host (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 books, Science fiction books

The Host is a 2008 science-fiction/romance book by Stephenie Meyer. A movie based on the book is currently in development. 

[[Polly Adler]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1962 deaths, American sex industry businesspeople, Belarusian Jews, Brothel owners and madams, Jewish American criminals, Jewish American writers, Jewish sex industry people, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Pearl "Polly" Adler (April 16, 1900  July 11, 1962) was a Russian-born madam (owner-manager of a brothel) of Jewish descent. Adler was born in Ivanava (nowadays Belarus).

[[Kitty Hawk]]

Kitty Hawk or Kittyhawk may refer to:

[[Morse code]]

CATEGORIES: Signalling, Encodings

Morse code is an old system of encoding messages that is used to send telegraphic information using signals and rhythm. In written communication, Morse code uses dots and dashes to represent a limited number of alphabet letters, numbers, punctuation and special characters of a given message. When messages are sent by sound, radio signals or light flashes, dots are short beeps or clicks or flashes, and dashes are longer ones.

Morse code is named after Samuel Morse, who helped invent it. It is not used as much today as it was in the 19th and 20th centuries. Teletypewriters were invented in the early 20th century with their own codes and gradually replaced Morse code. Other types of technology that are easier to use for communication became even more common. 

Some amateur radio operators still use Morse code to communicate and were previously required to learn and pass telegraphy exams to qualify their licenses. The requirements were lifted after 2003. 

There are different types of Morse code for some different countries.  

There are three different symbols in Morse code; there's a short one, usually called 'dit', a long one, called 'dah', and the pause. A dah is three times as long as a dit, and the pause has the same length as the dit.

Today, Morse codes can be easily generated through smartphone applications or through a web application, which take text as input and outputs the Morse code in copyable text or downloadable audio form. Its usage as a method of sending secret messages has become obsolete in favor of more powerful encryption techniques provided by advanced modern computer machines.

[[Chives]]

CATEGORIES: Allium, Herbs

Chives are herbs which are related to the onion. Its leaves are used for flavoring.

[[Premier of New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Premiers of New South Wales

The Premier of New South Wales is the leader of the New South Wales government. He or she is the most powerful politician in the Australian state of New South Wales.

The current Premier is Gladys Berejiklian from the Liberal Party.

[[Excitebike]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 video games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Virtual Console games, Famicom Disk System games

Excitebike is a motocross racing video game series made by Nintendo. It first appeared as a game for the Famicom in Japan in 1984 for a price of 5000 yen. It is the first game in the Excite series. The second game in the series is Excitebike 64 and the third is Excite Truck.

In 2011, a re-release of Excitebike called 3D Classics: Excitebike was released for the Nintendo 3DS. It is a 3D version of the original game.

[[Morris Iemma]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Premiers of New South Wales, Politicians from Sydney, Australian Labor Party politicians

Morris Iemma (born 21 July 1961) was the 40th Premier of New South Wales from 3 August 2005 to 5 September 2008. He was from the Labor Party.

[[Lukáčovce]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Slovakia

Lukáčovce is a village and in the Nitra District in western central Slovakia.

[[Houbara bustard]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Pakistan, Gruiformes

The houbara bustard (Chlamydotis undulata), also known as the African houbara, is a large bird in the bustard family. It breeds in the Canary Islands, North Africa, Iran and western Pakistan. 

[[Sindh Ibex]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Pakistan

The Sindh Ibex or Turkman Wild Goat (Capra aegagrus blythi) is a vulnerable wild goat native to Iran, Iraq, Turkmenistan Pakistan within Pakistan it is the Provincial animal of Sindh.

[[Juniperus squamata]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Asia

Juniperus squamata (flaky juniper or Himalayan juniper) is a species of juniper native to the Himalaya and China, from northeastern Afghanistan and Pakistan east to Yunnan in southwestern China, and with disjunct populations north to western Gansu and east to Fujian. 

It grows at 1,600-4,900 m altitude.  It is the provincial tree of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (unofficial).

[[Rose-ringed parakeet]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Asia, Animals of Africa, Parakeets

The rose-ringed parakeet (Psittacula krameri) also known as the ring-necked parakeet, is a tropical species of bird, with a wide range in Africa and  south Asia (the Indian subcontinent).

The rose-ringed parakeet is sexually dimorphic. The adult male has a red or black neck ring and the hen and immature birds of both sexes show little or no neck rings. Both sexes have a distinctive green colour. 

Rose-ringed parakeets measure on average 40 in length, including the tail feathers, a large portion of their total length. Their average single-wing length is about 15. In the wild, this is a noisy species with an unmistakable squawk. Captive birds can be taught to speak. It is herbivorous and not migratory.

[[Saludos Amigos]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, Disney animated movies, American family movies, American musical movies, Movies composed by Oliver Wallace, Multilingual movies

Saludos Amigos is a 1942 movie that takes place in Latin America, produced by Walt Disney Productions and released by RKO Radio Pictures. The sixth animated feature in the Disney animated features canon, it is made up of four different segments; Donald Duck stars in two of them and Goofy stars in one. It also features the first appearance of José Carioca. Saludos Amigos was popular enough for a sequel, The Three Caballeros, to be produced two years later. The movie premiered in Rio de Janeiro on August 24, 1942. It was released in the United States on February 6, 1943. It got mixed reviews and was only rereleased once, in 1949, when it was shown on a double bill with the first rerelease of Dumbo.

Its title in Spanish means, "Hello, Friends". This was the first Disney animated feature to be shown in South America before it was shown in the USA. At 42 minutes, this is the shortest Disney feature to date.

[[Ghar Kab Aao Gay]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 2000 movies, Urdu-language movies

Ghar Kab Ao Gey is a Pakistani Urdu language movie directed by Iqbal Kashmiri. It was released in theaters across Pakistan in Eid-ul-Fittar on January 9, 2000.

[[Tere Pyar Mein]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 2000 movies, Urdu-language movies

Tere Pyar Mein (تیرے پیار میں, In Your Love) is a Pakistani movie which was released in December 2000. It launched the career of Zara Sheikh in Lollywood.

[[Electronic body music]]

CATEGORIES: Industrial music, Electronic body music

Electronic body music (EBM, also known as aggropop) is a music genre that mixes together parts of industrial music and electronic dance music. It first became popular in Belgium.

[[The Birthday Massacre]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Canadian rock bands, New wave bands, Musical groups established in 1999, 1999 establishments in Canada

The Birthday Massacre is a synthpop band, based in Toronto, Canada. The band was officially formed in 1999, known at that time as Imagica, a name taken from a novel by Clive Barker called Imajica. In 2001 they changed their name to The Birthday Massacre. They have released 5 studio albums and they announced in January 2013 that they are working on a 6th album. In 2013 they did a tour with Emilie Autumn. In 2014 The Birthday Massacre will release their sixth album.

[[Clive Barker]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Liverpool, English artists, English LGBT people, English movie actors, English movie directors, English movie producers, English novelists, English screenwriters, English voice actors, LGBT actors, LGBT artists, LGBT directors, LGBT writers, Writers from Liverpool, 1952 births, Living people

Clive Barker (born 5 October 1952) is an English author, movie director and visual artist. He was born in Liverpool. He is openly gay.

[[Hellraiser]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 horror movies, British horror movies, Movies based on books

Hellraiser is a 1987 British horror movie exploring the themes of sadomasochism, pain as a source of pleasure, and morality under duress and fear. It is based on the novella The Hellbound Heart by Clive Barker, who also wrote the screenplay and directed the movie.

Hellraiser was number 19 on the cable channel Bravo's list of the 100 Scariest Movie Moments.

This movie had a sequel, Hellbound: Hellraiser II.

[[Sesame]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiales, Spices

Sesame (Sesamum indicum) is a flowering plant in the genus Sesamum. It grows to a height of 2-3 feet.

[[Pedaliaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiales

Pedaliaceae (pedalium family or sesame family) is a flowering plant in the Scrophulariales family.

Sesame, Sesamum indicum, is the source of sesame seeds.

[[Komodo dragon]]

CATEGORIES: Monitor lizards

The Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis)  is a species of lizard that lives in the Indonesian islands of Komodo, Rincah, Flores, Gili Motang, and Gili Dasami. It is the largest living lizard. They grow to an average length of 2–3 meters (approximately 6.5–10 ft) and weigh around 70 kg (154 pounds). Komodo dragon bites can be very dangerous, and they sometimes attack people.

Western scientists first saw Komodo dragons in 1910. They are very popular animals in zoos because they are very big and look scary. The lizards are in some danger. There are very few Komodo dragons still alive on their home islands. Indonesian law does not allow hunting these lizards. Komodo National Park was made to help protect Komodo dragons.

The Komodo dragon has other names. It can also be called the Komodo monitor or the Komodo Island monitor by some scientists, but this is not very common. The people who live in Komodo Island call them ora,  buaja durat (land crocodile) or biawak raksasa (giant monitor).

[[Organized crime]]

CATEGORIES: Organized crime

Organized crime is an act committed by a group or groups of people, usually mobsters and other criminals, who work to make money or achieve certain motive illegally.

[[The Singles 1992-2003]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, No Doubt albums, Greatest hits albums

The Singles 1992-2003 is a greatest hits album by the American alternative rock band No Doubt. It was released on November 25, 2003 (the same day as Boom Box, a box set album by No Doubt.) The album contained all of the singles the band had released at the time, except for "Squeal" and "Doghouse" (two singles from their album The Beacon Street Collection that never became popular.) However, it also included two songs that were not singles: "Trapped in a Box" from their first album No Doubt, and a cover version of the song "It's My Life" by Talk Talk.

[[Nathan Kress]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Living people, Actors from Glendale, California

Nathan Karl Kress also Nate Kress (born November 18, 1992) is an American teen actor and voice actor.

[[Monster truck]]

CATEGORIES: Trucks

A monster truck is a vehicle usually styled after a pickup truck. It is changed or purposely built with very big wheels and suspension. Monster trucks are used for competition and popular entertainment.

Usually, a monster truck show involves the truck crushing smaller cars under its huge tires.

[[Harlem Globetrotters]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball teams, American entertainers, African-American people

The Harlem Globetrotters are an exhibition basketball team that combines athleticism and comedy. They are a "barnstorming" team, which means they travel around the world playing basketball in many different places.  Sometimes they play college or pro teams, but usually they play a team called the Washington Generals.

They were founded in 1925 in Chicago.  Almost all their players are African-American, which was unusual at the time of their founding (at that time, most professional basketball players were white).  In the 1930s and 1940s, they were one of the best basketball teams in the country, along with the New York Rens, another African-American basketball team.  By the 1950s, a lot of black players started playing in the NBA, and the Globetrobbers became a clown team.  

The best-known Globetrotter is Meadowlark Lemon.  Wilt Chamberlain played for the Globetrotters for a while.  They were placed in the Basketball Hall of Fame as a team in 2001.

[[Burt Ward]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American activists, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Burt Ward (born Bert John Gervis, Jr., on July 6, 1945) is an American television actor. He is best known for his work as Robin, the "Boy Wonder," in the 1960s television series Batman. In 1992 he wrote a book called “Burt Ward: My life in tights.”

[[Batman (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: Action television series, Comedy television series, 1966 television series debuts, Batman, ABC network shows, Superhero television shows, English-language television programs

Batman is a 1960s American television series, based on the DC comic book character Batman. It aired on the ABC network for two and a half seasons from 1966 to 1968. Even though it was on TV for such a short time, the series had two new episodes each week, giving the show a total of 120 episodes (the equivalent of roughly five regular seasons).

[[Graduate school]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities

A graduate school (or grad school) is a school that gives advanced academic degrees, such as Master's degrees (M.S. or M.B.A.) and Doctoral degrees (Ph.D. or L.L.D. or D.D.S. etc.). A graduate student (or grad student) is a student who has earned a Bachelor's degree and is pursuing additional education in a specific field, though this is not always the case. In British English, the term "postgraduate student" is more common.

A graduate school is not always a separate school.

The term "graduate school" could be confusing because the verb "graduate" is also used to mean completing high school education or earning a Bachelor's degree. The verb is used for all those types of schools, but the meaning of the adjective "graduate" is changed to mean "postgraduate" in the term "graduate school". The small change in meaning can be viewed with an air of sophistication, where experienced students are often more aware of the issue, while novice students might not be aware, as being more naive.

[[SAT]]

CATEGORIES: Education in the United States

The SAT Reasoning Test (used to be called Scholastic Aptitude Test and Scholastic Assessment Test) is a test for college admissions in the United States. The SAT is owned, published, and created by the College Board, a non-profit organization in the United States, and was once owned by the Educational Testing Service (ETS). ETS now administers the exam. The SAT is usually taken by high school juniors and seniors.

As of March 5, 2016, the College Board has begun using a new SAT, which has four sections (reading, writing, math without calculator, math with calculator) plus an optional essay. 

The reading section comes first. It is 65 minutes long, and has 52 questions. Unlike on the pre-2016 SAT, there are no vocabulary words or sentences to fill in.

The writing section, which is 35 minutes long and has 44 questions, comes next. It is similar to the old writing section.

The math section is split into two parts: one which lets students use calculators, and one which does not. The no-calculator section comes before the calculator section, and has 20 problems to be finished in 25 minutes. The calculator section has 38 problems to be done in 55 minutes.

Finally, the essay is 50 minutes long, but does not have to be taken by every student. The new essay is based on analyzing a passage, instead of answering a question about life experiences.

Scores on the new SAT range from 400 to 1600, as on the pre-2005 SAT.

[[Lucky Luciano]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1962 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Italy, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Drug traffickers, Mobsters, People from Sicily

Charles "Lucky" Luciano (born Salvatore Lucania; November 24, 1897 – January 26, 1962) was a Sicilian mobster. Luciano is considered to have been the father of modern organized crime and the mastermind of the postwar expansion of the international heroin trade. He was the first official boss of the modern Genovese crime family. 

Time magazine named Luciano among the top 20 most influential builders and titans of the 20th century.

[[Genovese crime family]]

CATEGORIES: Criminals from New York City, Mobsters, American families

The Genovese crime family is one of the "Five Families" that controls organized crime activities in New York City, within the nationwide criminal phenomenon known as the Mafia (or Cosa Nostra). The Genovese crime family has been nicknamed the "Ivy League" and "Rolls Royce" of organized crime.

[[ACT (test)]]

CATEGORIES: Education in the United States

The ACT is an achievement test for college admissions in the United States made by ACT, Inc.  It was first given in Fall 1959 by Everett Franklin Lindquist as a competitor to the College Board's Scholastic Aptitude Test, now the SAT Reasoning Test.  Some students who perform poorly on the SAT find that they perform better on the ACT and vice versa.  The ACT test is made of 4 tests: English, Math, Reading, and Science reasoning.  In February 2005, an optional writing test was added to the ACT, like changes to the SAT that took place later in March of the same year.  All four-year colleges and universities in the U.S. accept the ACT.

[[Pakistan Declaration]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan Movement, Pamphlets

The Pakistan Declaration (titled Now or Never; Are We to Live or Perish Forever?) was a pamphlet published in January 1933 by Choudhary Rahmat Ali in which the word Pakistan was used for the first time.

The pamphlet was written when Pakistan was part of British India. The pamphlet asked that "the five Northern units of India"  - Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (Afghan Province), Kashmir, Sindh and Baluchistan (or Pakstan) become an independent state and not part of India.

After the pamphlet was published the name of Pakistan became very popular and led to the Pakistan Movement. Fourteen years after the pamphlet was published, in 1947, Pakistan became an independent state.

[[Pamphlet]]

CATEGORIES: Pamphlets

A pamphlet is a small book without a hard cover or binding. It can be made up of a single sheet of paper that is printed on both sides and folded in half, in thirds, or in fourths (called a leaflet).

It can also be made up of a few pages that are folded in half and stapled at the crease to make a simple book. In order to count as a pamphlet, UNESCO requires the pamphlet to have 'at least 5 but not more than 48 pages' not including the cover page; a longer item is a book.

Pamphlets can contain anything, such as user instructions information for kitchen appliances, or religious and political ideas. Pamphlets have been important in history, publishing a lot of pamphlets can help spread ideas, for instance during revolutions pamphlets were used to influence people. Pamphlets are also important in advertising as they are cheap to produce and can be distributed easily to customers.

[[Pattaya]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Thailand

Pattaya (พัทยา, th-pattaya.ogg) is a city  in Thailand. It is on the east coast of the Gulf of Thailand, about 165 km southeast of Bangkok.

[[Vernon Chatman]]

CATEGORIES: American screenwriters, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, American musicians, Emmy Award winners, Actors from New York City, American television actors, Writers from New York City, 1972 births, Living people

Vernon Chatman (born October 31, 1972) is an Emmy Award winning American television producer, writer, voice actor, comedian and musician. He is best known as the voice of "Towelie" on the cartoon series South Park.

[[Yasothon]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Thailand, 1811 establishments, Establishments in Thailand, 1810s establishments in Asia

Yasothon is a town in the Isan region of Thailand. It is far from Bangkok about 500 km. In the village people grow rice and houseplants. The weather is very hot in the summer (more than other provinces) and the famous festival is Bang Fai Rocket Festival. This festival is really beautiful, every year the visitor from all over the country come to visit this festival. The festival features large home-made rockets, fireworks displays, parades and beauty contests. Normally people have created the rockets for launched in to the sky; they believe that the god will send the planting season.

From Yasothon city of nearby province are Mukdahan, Nakhonpanom, Rio Et, Sisakat and Ubom Ratchathani.

[[Thai food]]

CATEGORIES: Thai food

Thai food is a type of food that was first made in Thailand. Thai food is often spicy, but does not have to be. Thai food is shared with every person at the table. The meal is not thrown away. The Thai believe that throwing food away would anger the "god of rice". Thai food is eaten with a fork and a large spoon.  

[[Lopburi]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Thailand

Lopburi is a province in the center of Thailand. It is good farming land. Lopburi has a long history. It was first called La-vo. Lopburi was settled during the Bronze Age. The Khmer expanded their power in the area during the 10th century and ruled from the town of La-vo.

The administration of Lopburi is divided into 11 districts and 124 sub-districts. The tourist attractions are Narainivech Palace, Narai National Museum, Pralarn shrine (famous for the monkeys that come out of the jungle), Pasakchonlasit dam, Mahatad temple, Lopburi's zoo, Indian pagoda's shrine, Lai temple, Vichayenn's house -it's the place where the royal government welcome the foreign envoys, and Vangkanleung's waterfall.

[[Volkswagen Golf]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Volkswagen Golf

Volkswagen Golf is a car produced by Volkswagen since 1974. It entered its 8th generation in 2019.

[[Capparis decidua]]

CATEGORIES: Capparaceae, Plants of Pakistan

Capparis decidua is commonly known as karir, kair, kirir, karril, Teent etc. It is either a small tree with many branches or a shrub of the Thar desert and other hot and dry regions in southern Asia. It has a lot of thin, leafless branches, the small  leaves being found only on young shoots. It rarely grows above a height of 5 meters (15 feet).

These unripe fruits were used as a major dietary food item by the majority of people due to its exceptional nutritional and medicinal properties. 

The berries can be eaten and mixed with sangri (beans from the tree Prosopis cineraria) form a vegetable dish called "Kair sangri" in Rajasthan, India, which is a delicacy to many.khair is also used for preparing pickle and can be stored for long time .

They are highly tolerant to salinity of soil (8 mmhos) .

These plants grow in extremely scarce condition of water ( xerophytes )   like ber .

[[Pilgrims]]

CATEGORIES: People from Massachusetts, English people, Mayflower passengers

The Pilgrims is the name for the early settlers of the Plymouth Colony, which is now Plymouth, Massachusetts. These people referred to themselves as Separatists. Most of them were either Methodists or Puritans. In 1620 they traveled from England on a ship called the Mayflower. There were 102 people on the ship including crew members. The Pilgrims had left England years earlier to live in Leiden because of religious differences with the Church of England. The original settlers of Plymouth Colony are known as the Pilgrim Fathers, or simply as the Pilgrims. 

The Mayflower was a cargo ship and was not meant for passengers.  It was uncomfortable and small.  Many Pilgrims got sick on the journey or soon after they arrived.  One child was born on the Mayflower.

When they arrived in America, they built homes and farms.  They received help from the Wampanoag people.  The Wampanoag people taught the Pilgrims how to plant corn, hunt, and fish in the new land. They had a big feast for 3 days.

Foods commonly eaten by the Pilgrims included bread, grains, corn, venison, turkey, mussels, lobster, eel, and clams.

[[G major]]

CATEGORIES: Musical keys

G major (or the key of G) is a major scale based on G, with the pitches G, A, B, C, D, E,Fsharp, and G. Its key signature has one sharp, Fsharp.

Its relative minor is E minor, and its parallel minor is G minor.

[[Classic female blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

Classic female blues music was played from 1920 to 1929. The most popular of female blues singers were Ma Rainey, Bessie Smith, Mamie Smith, Ethel Waters and Rosa Henderson. 

[[Delta blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

The Delta blues is one of the earliest types of blues music. It started in the Mississippi Delta (a place in the US that goes from Memphis to Mississippi). Guitar and harmonica are usually used to play it.

[[Chuck (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Sum 41 albums

Chuck is the third album by Sum 41.  It was released on October 12, 2004.

[[Sexual dimorphism]]

CATEGORIES: Animals, Evolutionary biology, Classical genetics

Sexual dimorphism is an idea in biology. It means that the male and the female of a species look different enough to see. The word comes from the Greek: di (two) and morphe (form).

It is the most common type of polymorphism. It may be caused by  sexual selection, that is, competition between members of the same species for partners to reproduce. Sexual dimorphism is inherited, which means the differences between males and females help the animal stay alive in some way.

The things that make the two sexes of a species different are called secondary sex characteristics. They are not directly part of the reproductive system. They are the product of sexual selection for traits that give an animal an advantage over others in staying alive and reproduction.  In humans, beards are a secondary sex characteristic.  Human beings do not use beards to make babies.  A man can even shave off his beard and he will still be able to have children.  But men grow beards and women do not, and they are easy to see.

The difference between sexes can include:

The main functions of sexual dimorphism are to improve the individual's chance of mating in various ways:

Some animals show these differences only during mating season. Deer shed their antlers and peacocks shed their tails out of season. This minimises the key disadvantage of sexual dimorphism, which is, it makes the male much easier to be seen by predators.

[[Jonathan Swift]]

CATEGORIES: 1667 births, 1745 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Anglican priests, Christian writers, English Anglicans, Essayists, Irish poets, Writers from Dublin

Jonathan Swift (30 November 1667 – 19 October 1745) was an Anglo-Irish satirist, essayist, political pamphleteer (first for Whigs then for the Tories), poet and cleric. He became Dean of St. Patrick's Cathedral in Dublin. 

He is remembered for books and poems he wrote like: Gulliver's Travels, A Modest Proposal, A Journal to Stella, Drapier's Letters, The Battle of the Books, An Argument Against Abolishing Christianity, and A Tale of a Tub. Swift is probably the most well known prose satirist in the English language. He is less well known for his poetry.

Swift originally published all of his work under pseudonyms — such as Lemuel Gulliver, Isaac Bickerstaff, M.B. Drapier — or anonymously. He is known for being a master of two styles of satire; the Horatian and Juvenalian styles.

[[Cato the Elder]]

CATEGORIES: 234 BC births, 149 BC deaths, Roman people

Marcus Porcius Cato (Latin: M·PORCIVS·M·F·CATO) (234 BC, Tusculum–149 BC) was a Roman statesman, surnamed the Censor (Censorius), Sapiens, Priscus, or the Elder (Major), to distinguish him from Cato the Younger (his great-grandson).

He came of an ancient Plebeian family who all were noted for some military service but not for the discharge of the higher civil offices. He was bred, after the manner of his Latin forefathers, to agriculture, to which he devoted himself when not engaged in military service. But, having attracted the notice of Lucius Valerius Flaccus, he was brought to Rome, and successively held the offices of Cursus Honorum: Tribune (214 BC), Quaestor (204 BC), Aedile (199 BC), Praetor (198 BC), Consul (195 BC) together with his old patron, and finally Censor (184 BC).

Late in life, he encouraged the Romans to start the Third Punic War to destroy Carthage.

[[Kavirondo]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Africa, Ethnic groups in Africa

Kavirondo is the old name of the region around Kavirondo Gulf (now Winam Gulf) as well as of two native peoples living there under the regime of British East Africa (The "Nilotic Kavirondo" and the "Bantu Kavirondo"). Broadly, this was defined as those who dwelt in the valley of the Nzoia River, on the western slopes of Mount Elgon, and along the northeast coast of Victoria Nyanza. 

Suggested origins of the name "Kavirondo" include 

[[Magellan goose]]

CATEGORIES: Geese

The Magellan goose (Chloephaga picta picta) or upland goose is a bird of Anatidae family. It is most commonly found in the southern part of South America, Tierra del Fuego. The Upland goose is a subspecies of Chloephaga picta leucoptera. The Upland Goose is one of the most conspicuous birds in the Falklands. The subspecies Chloephaga picta leucoptera is only found in the Falklands. It is slightly larger than the South American subspecies.

[[The Rocker (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, American comedy movies, American musical movies, 20th Century Fox movies

The Rocker is a comedy movie. It was released on August 20, 2008. The movie stars Rainn Wilson, Josh Gad, Christina Applegate, Teddy Geiger, Will Arnett, Emma Stone, and Bradley Cooper.  It was written by Maya Forbes & Wallace Wolodarsky. Wolodarsky is best known for his work on writing for The Simpsons.

[[Fierce Creatures]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 comedy movies, British comedy movies, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by Fred Schepisi

Fierce Creatures is a 1997 British comedy movie. The movie was written by John Cleese and directed by Fred Schepisi and Robert Young.

The story is based around a British zoo. It has recently been bought by New Zealand businessman Rod McCain (played by Kevin Kline) and put under the management of Rollo Lee (Cleese). In order to gain more money, Lee decides to use a "fierce creatures" policy. This means that only animals which could kill people would be kept in the zoo.

The movie was a Spiritual sequel to A Fish Called Wanda and used the same main cast.

[[The Bucket List]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 comedy-drama movies, 2000s buddy movies, 2000s road movies, American comedy-drama movies, American road movies, Cancer in movies, English-language movies, Movies about death, Movies directed by Rob Reiner, Warner Bros. movies, Movies set in California

The Bucket List is a 2007 American comedy-drama movie. It was written by Justin Zackham and directed by Rob Reiner. The movie stars Jack Nicholson, Morgan Freeman, Sean Hayes, Beverly Todd, and Rob Morrow. The story follows two men who have terminal cancer (Nicholson and Freeman) on a road trip with a wish list of things to do before they "kick the bucket".

[[Shōjo]]

CATEGORIES: Manga

Shōjo (少女) is a Japanese word meaning "girl". The characters, or kanji, mean "little" and "woman". The word is mainly used to describe a demographic for anime and manga- girls 7-19. 

[[Five Families]]

CATEGORIES: Mafia, People from New York City, Crime in the United States

The Five Families are the five major Italian-American Mafia crime families which have controlled organized crime in New York City since the 1930s. The Five Families, under the suggestion of Salvatore Maranzano and Charles "Lucky" Luciano, were responsible for the establishment of The Commission, a council that changed how things worked with Mafia activities in the United States. 

The five families and their bosses are (currently):

The Colombo family was once known as the Profaci Crime Family, until a coup caused a name change in the early 1960s. Former Godfather Joe Massino had wanted to change the name of the Bonanno Family to the Massino Family but since his arrest and defection it is unlikely to happen. The DeCavalcante crime family, based in nearby Elizabeth, NJ, also has ties to the five New York families.

[[Gambino crime family]]

CATEGORIES: Gambino crime family, Mafia, People from New York City

The Gambino crime family is one of the "Five Families" that controls organized crime activities based in New York City, United States, within the  Mafia (or Cosa Nostra). It was named after Carlo Gambino.

[[Carlo Gambino]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York, Gambino crime family, 1902 births, 1976 deaths, People from Palermo

Carlo "Don Carlo" Gambino, (August 24,1902 - October 15,1976) was a Mafioso who became Boss of the Gambino crime family, that is still takes the name today. No one expected Gambino to seize control over the Commission of La Cosa Nostra in the US, at 1957 Apalachin Convention. Gambino was known for being low-key and secretive and unlike many modern mobsters, Gambino served no time in prison, but lived to the age of 74, when he died of a heart attack in bed.

[[John Gotti]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2002 deaths, American criminals, People from New York City, Gambino crime family

John Joseph Gotti, Jr. (October 27, 1940 – June 10, 2002), commonly known by the media as "The Dapper Don" and "The Teflon Don" after the murder of his former boss Paul Castellano, was the boss of the well known Gambino crime family.

[[Energy transfer]]

CATEGORIES: Energy

In physics, energy transfer is when energy is moved from one place to another. Energy cannot be made or destroyed. However, it can be transferred and it can change from one form of energy to another form of energy.

[[Galago]]

CATEGORIES: Lorisoidea

Galagos, also known as bushbabies or nagapies (meaning "little night monkeys" in Afrikaans), are small, nocturnal primates native to continental Africa. There are 21 species, and they form the family Galagidae.

[[Mongolic languages]]

CATEGORIES: Mongolic languages

The Mongolic languages are a group of languages that are spoken in Central Asia. Some linguists propose to put Mongolic languages in the same group as the  Turkic and Tungusic languages. They call this group the Altaic languages, but not all linguists agreed upon this.

The best-known member of this language family is Mongolian. In Cyrillic orthography as it is used in Mongolia it is written Монгол Хэл, and in the vertical Uygur-derived script as used in it is Inner Mongolia in China it is written Mongγol Kele). It is the primary language of most of the residents of Mongolia, and is spoken by around 5.7 million people in Mongolia, Russia, and China.

[[Tungusic languages]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Asia

The Tungusic languages (also known as Manchu-Tungus, Tungus) are spoken in Eastern Siberia and Manchuria. Some linguists consider them to be part of the Altaic languages but many others do not think so.

Many Tungusic languages are in danger, and the long-term future of the family is uncertain.

[[Pioneer program]]

CATEGORIES: Pioneer program

The Pioneer program is the name of a few unmanned space missions done by NASA between 1958 and 1978. Problably the best-known of these probes were Pioneer 10 and 11, launched in 1972 and 1973 respectively.

Both carried a plaque as shown.

[[Musée d'Orsay]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Paris, Art museums in France

The Musée d'Orsay is an art museum in Paris. The building was built in 1900, and first used as a railway station. In 1986, it became the museum, and it is still very famous today. 

The museum exhibits artworks of the 19th century including Impressionist paintings. The Impressionist paintings include works by Monet, Degas, Renoir, Cézanne, Manet, and Van Gogh. That's why the Orsay is called the 'Impressionism museum'. 

The museum holds mainly French art dating from 1848 to 1915, including paintings, sculptures, furniture, and photography. Its extensive collection of impressionist and post-impressionist masterpieces is the largest in the world. It features work by such painters such as Monet, Manet, Degas, Renoir, Cézanne, Seurat, Sisley, Gauguin, Van Gogh and many others.  

[[Cystitis]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases, Urinary system

Cystitis is the infection of the urinary bladder. Women get this more often than men, but men can get it also. It also affects all age groups.

[[Royal Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in London, Art museums in the United Kingdom

The Royal Academy (RA), is an art institution based in Burlington  House, Piccadilly, London. It is a club for top painters and sculptors. They elect their own members, and give regular exhibitions of art works.

The Royal Academy was formed to rival the Society of Artists after an leadership dispute between two leading architects, Sir William Chambers and James Paine. Paine won, but Chambers used his strong connections with King George III to create the Royal Academy, in 1768. It was formally launched the following year.

Membership of the Royal Academy is up to 80 practising artists, each elected by ballot of the General Assembly of the Royal Academy. They are known as Royal Academicians (RA, or more traditionally as R.A.). The Royal Academy is governed by these Royal Academicians.

Sir Joshua Reynolds was its first president, and Benjamin West its second.

[[The Last Judgement (Michelangelo)]]

CATEGORIES: Paintings with Christian themes, 16th century paintings

The Last Judgment is a fresco by Michelangelo painted on the altar wall of the Sistine Chapel in Vatican City. Clement VII commissioned the painting in 1534, the last year of his papacy. After the election of Paul III Farnese, Michelangelo, aged 61, began work in 1536. He completed the Last Judgement in the autumn of 1541. 

The Last Judgment shows the Second Coming of Christ, as described by John the Evangelist in the apocalypse. The painting depicts the moment when the living and dead are judged by Christ, and their souls consigned to heaven or hell.

The painting was not unanimously admired at the time. Due to his depiction of holy persons in the nude, with exposed genitals, Michelangelo was accused of immorality and obscenity. The cardinal said that this could not be tolerated inside the most important church of Christianity. A censorship campaign was started, known as the "Fig-leaf campaign". Carafa and Monsignor Sernini (Mantua's ambassador) launched the campaign to remove the frescoes.  When the Pope's own Master of Ceremonies, Biagio da Cesena, said "it was mostly disgraceful that in so sacred a place there should have been depicted all those nude figures, exposing themselves so shamefully," and that it was no work for a papal chapel but rather "for the public baths and taverns," Michelangelo worked the Cesena's semblance into the scene as Minos, judge of the underworld (far bottom-right corner of the painting). It is said that when Cesena complained to the Pope, the pontiff responded that his jurisdiction did not extend to hell, so the portrait would have to remain.

The genitalia in the fresco were later covered by the artist Daniele da Volterra, whom history remembers by the derogatory nickname "Il Braghettone" ("the breeches-painter").

In the painting, Michelangelo does a self portrait depicting himself as St. Bartholomew after he had been flayed (skinned alive) This is reflective of the feelings of contempt Michelangelo had for being commissioned to paint "The Last Judgement".

[[Fancy rat]]

CATEGORIES: Old World rats and mice

The fancy rat or pet rat is a type of the brown rat (Rattus norvegicus) that is bred to be a pet.  The name fancy rat has nothing to do with the "fanciness" of how they look. It comes from the phrase animal fancy.  A person who keeps pet rats is said to be involved in "rat fancy."  Some people domesticate black rats (Rattus rattus), and Gambian pouched rats (Cricetomys gambianus). These types of rats are not usually called fancy rats because the hobby does not center around them.

Fancy rats have been bred as pets at least since the late 19th century. They can have many different colors and coat types.  They are sociable, intelligent animals. They can learn to come when called, use a litter box, and do many different tricks. Pet rats act differently from rats found in nature. The number of generations since they have been removed from the wild and how they were bred has an effect on how much they act differently. They are not any more of a health risk than other common pets. 

In the 19th century france, Fancy Rats were quite a popular attraction of entertainment, they could be taughtt a handfull of tricks.

Fancy rats do not have the diseases and illness as a wild rat would have.

Fancy rats can have ears on the top of their head (standard) or at the side (dumbo)

[[Gymnasium (ancient Greece)]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Buildings and structures in Greece, Sports buildings, Nudity

In Ancient Greece the Gymnasion (or Gymnasium, romanized name) was a place where athletes could train for the competitions in public games, such as the Olympic Games. Gymnos means naked. Only men were allowed to enter, and train; they did so fully naked (as the name implies). Athletes also competed in the nude. This was said to encourage aesthetic appreciation of the male body. It was believed to be a tribute to the Gods. Gymnasia and palestrae were under the protection and patronage of Heracles, Hermes and, in Athens, Theseus.

[[Arnold Rikli]]

CATEGORIES: 1823 births, 1906 deaths, Swiss people

Arnold Rikli (1823-1906) was a healer. He proposed various therapies, mostly based on exposing the body to sun and air (called Sun tanning, preferably done while naked). He is one of the forefathers of a movement called naturism today.

[[Eastern White Pine]]

CATEGORIES: Conifers, Plants of North America

The eastern white pine (Pinus strobus), also known as the white pine, Weymouth pine (British), and soft pine, is a large pine native to eastern North America, occurring from Newfoundland west to Minnesota and southeastern Manitoba, and south along the Appalachian Mountains to the extreme south of Georgia.

It's the state tree of Maine and Michigan.

[[Forget-me-not]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers, Boraginaceae

Myosotis is a genus of flowering plants in the family Boraginaceae that are commonly called Forget-me-nots. Similar names and variations are found in many different languages.

[[State flower Of Alaska]]

Myosotis is a genus of flowering plants in the family Boraginaceae that are commonly called Forget-me-nots.

[[Willow Grouse]]

CATEGORIES: Galliformes

The willow grouse (Europe) or willow ptarmigan (North America) (Lagopus lagopus) is a medium-sized gamebird in the grouse family. It is a sedentary species, breeding in birch and other forests and tundra across northern Eurasia, and in Alaska and northern Canada. It is the state bird of Alaska. During the last ice age, the species occurred in continental Europe (Tomek & Bocheński 2005).

[[State bird Of Alaska]]

The willow grouse (Europe) or willow ptarmigan (North America), Lagopus lagopus, is a medium-sized gamebird in the grouse family. It is a sedentary species, breeding in birch and other forests and tundra across northern Eurasia, and in Alaska and northern Canada. It is the state bird of Alaska. During the last ice age, the species occurred in continental Europe (Tomek & Bocheński 2005).

[[Watershed (television)]]

CATEGORIES: Television

Today, television can show a number of programmes. Usually the content of these programmes is rated, by a number of people (usually called advisory board). Some of the programmes may be suitable for children (of different ages), other content may not be suitable for children. The watershed is the time of the day where content not suitable for children may be shown. This is usually during the night (starting in the later evening, and ending in the early morning)

[[Spot-billed pelican]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Pakistan, Pelecaniformes

The spot-billed pelican (Pelecanus philippensis) is a member of the pelican family. It breeds in southern Asia from southern Pakistan. It is a bird of large inland and coastal waters, especially shallow lakes. The nest is a heap of vegetation in a tree. Three to four eggs is the usual clutch size.

[[Lake Manasarovar]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of China

Lake Manasarovar or Lake Manasa Sarovar (མ་ཕམ་གཡུ་མཚོ།, Mapham Yutso; 瑪旁雍錯) is a fresh-water lake. It is in the Tibet Autonomous Region of China, 2000 from Lhasa. Lake Manasarovar is the source of the Pakistani river Sindhu. Sindhu flows west to the Arabian Sea.

[[Bathing]]

CATEGORIES: Hygiene, Water

Bathing is putting the body into a fluid, most often water, or a solution with water. Usually it is done for hygiene or for religious purposes, or for fun. Sometimes bathing is also done as a form of therapy.

When people talk about bathing, they most often mean being immersed in water. But people have also "bathed" in other substances. Some therapies involve bathing in mud. People have also bathed in other substances, like Champagne, beans, or chocolate. A form of bathing quite common is bathing in sunlight.

[[1857 War of Independence in Murree]]

CATEGORIES: 1857, 19th century in Asia, British India, History of Pakistan

The 1857 War of Independence in Murree, part of the Indian Rebellion of 1857 (better known as the Indian Mutiny), was a minor conflict between the tribes surrounding the hill station of Murree (now Pakistan) and the colonial government of British India The local tribes had become angry with the British ever since the British had started their colonial rule in the area.

Today Murree is part of Pakistan but in 1857 it was part of British India, ever since the British rule began in India there had been rebellions and wars against the British. However, in 1857 rebellions broke out in many different places, Murree being one of these places. People thought the rule of the British was about to be overthrown. In the Murree hills it was the Dhund Abbasi and Karlal tribes who rose up against the British.

[[Pygmy marmoset]]

CATEGORIES: Marmosets, Mammals of South America

Pygmy marmosets are the smallest marmosets and one of the smallest of all primates. They inhabit Brazil, Ecuador, Peru and Colombia. Most pygmy marmosets lives in troops of two to nine individuals, with a dominant male, a breeding female, and up to four successive litters of offspring. The modal size of a standard stable  troop would be 6 individuals.

Pygmy marmosets have tawny agouti fur (the tip of the hair is a different color to the base) with an indistinctly dark-ringed tail.

[[Patras]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Patra (Πάτρα) is the third biggest Greek city. Patra is in southwest Greece on the west coast of the Peloponnese. It is the capital of the prefecture of Achaia and also the capital of the Greek perifereia (district) of Western Peloponnese. 171,616 lived there in 2001. The total population of Patra, including all its suburbs, is over 200,000 people. Patra is a coastal city, so it has a big port. Patra's port connects Greece with east-facing Italian ports such as Bari, Brindisi and Ancona. 

[[Santiago de Compostela]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Spain, Santiago de Compostela

Santiago de Compostela (also Saint James of Compostela) is the capital of the autonomous community of Galicia. It is a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage Site. The city is in the northwest of Spain in the Province of A Coruña.

The city's Cathedral is the destination of an important pilgrimage route, the Way of St. James (Galician: Camiño de Santiago, Spanish: Camino de Santiago). Pilgrims have been following this route since the ninth century.

The cathedral is believed to be where James, son of Zebedee is buried. Saint James was one of the apostles of Jesus Christ.

[[Christopher Nolan]]

CATEGORIES: Christopher Nolan, 1970 births, Living people, English movie directors, English movie producers, English writers, Movie directors from London, Saturn Award winners, Writers from London

Christopher Jonathan James Nolan (born 30 July 1970) is a British-American director, producer and screenwriter. He often works with his brother, author Jonathan Nolan. Nolan rose to prominence for directing the psychological thriller Memento, and for reviving the Batman movie franchise as the director of The Dark Knight Trilogy. Each of them are Batman Begins (2005), The Dark Knight (2008), and The Dark Knight Rises (2012). He is also the founder of the production company, Syncopy Films through which his movies Inception (2010), Interstellar (2014) and Dunkirk (2017) were released.

In July 2012, Nolan became the youngest director to be honored with a hand and footprint ceremony at Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles.

[[Foucault pendulum]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

The Foucault pendulum, or Foucault's pendulum (named after the French physicist Léon Foucault) was pendulum created as an experiment to show the rotation of the Earth. 

[[Mickie James]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Country musicians, American professional wrestlers, Female professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Virginia, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Mickie Laree James (born August 31, 1979) is an American professional wrestler and singer.

She worked for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) on its SmackDown and Raw brands. She also worked for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling from 2010 to 2013.

James started wrestling in 1999 as a valet on the independent circuit using the name Alexis Laree. She trained in several places to get better at wrestling before working for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) in June 2002. She first became well known while she was while working at TNA. Soon after she started working for TNA, she joined a stable called The Gathering. She is also the only woman to be a part of Clockwork Orange House of Fun matches.

James started working with WWE in October 2005. She was a part of a storyline with Trish Stratus. James' gimmick was that she was Stratus' biggest fan and later became Stratus' stalker. This storyline lasted almost a year. The person at WWE believed she was doing good work. Because of this, she won her first WWE Women's Championship at WrestleMania 22. She has held the championship a total of four times.

Outside of wrestling, James has an associate of arts degree in business administration.  She is studying for her Bachelor of Arts degree in operations management. James grew up on a farm and has an interest in horses. She owns three Morgan horses. James has been riding since she was 11 years old.

She released her debut album Strangers & Angels on May 18, 2010 on iTunes. Her second album Somebody's Gonna Pay was released on May 18, 2010 and reached #15 on the Billboards Heatseekers charts. The album contains the song "Hardcore Country" which James uses as her current theme song in TNA.

[[Guineafowl]]

CATEGORIES: Galliformes, Birds of Africa

Guineafowls (ˈ; sometimes called "pet speckled hens" or "original fowl") are birds of the family Numididae in the order Galliformes. They are endemic to  Africa and rank among the oldest of the gallinaceous birds. Phylogenetically, they branched off from the core Galliformes after the Cracidae (chachalacas, guans, and curassows) and before the Odontophoridae (New World quail).  An Eocene fossil lineage Telecrex has been associated with guineafowl; Telecrex inhabited Mongolia, and may have given rise to the oldest of the true phasianids, such as blood pheasants and eared pheasants, which evolved into high-altitude, montane-adapted species with the rise of the Tibetan Plateau.  While modern guineafowl species are endemic to Africa, the helmeted guineafowl has been introduced as a domesticated bird widely elsewhere.

[[Jaguar S-Type]]

CATEGORIES: Automobiles

Jaguar S-Type was a car produced by Jaguar from 1998 till 2008. It was first shown at the 1998 Birmingham Motor Show, and shared 'retro' styling with the Rover 75, which was shown at that same show.

[[Muskrat]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents, Mammals of North America

Muskrats are rodents that live in freshwater and saltwater marshes, lakes, ponds, and streams. Muskrats often build dome-shaped houses in marshes. These houses, made of plants, protect the muskrat from predators, since the only entrance is underwater. Some muskrats live in burrows on the water banks. Muskrats are excellent swimmers but are slow on land. 

Muskrats are native to North America, but have been brought to Europe and Asia, where they now live in the wild. Muskrats got their name because they have musk glands that produce a strong scent. 

[[Griffith's experiment]]

CATEGORIES: 1928, Genetics, Bacteria, Molecular biology, Experiments

Griffith's Experiment was an experiment done in 1928 by Frederick Griffith. It was one of the first experiments showing that bacteria can get DNA through a process called transformation.

Griffith used two strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae. He then uses the bacteria to infect the mice, which have many similar characteristics to humans. He used a type III-S (smooth) and type II-R (rough) strain. The III-S strain covers itself with a polysaccharide capsule that protects it from the host's immune system. This means that the host will die. The II-R strain does not have that protective shield around it and is killed by the host's immune system.

In this experiment, bacteria from the III-S strain were killed by heat, and their remains were added to II-R strain bacteria. While neither harmed the mice on their own, the blend of the two was able to kill mice.

Griffith was also able to get both live II-R and live III-S strains of S. pneumoniae from the blood of these dead mice. He concluded that the type II-R had been "transformed" into the lethal III-S strain by a "transforming principle" that was somehow part of the dead III-S strain bacteria.

Today, we know that the "transforming principle" Griffith saw was the DNA of the III-S strain bacteria. While the bacteria had been killed, the DNA had survived the heating process and was taken up by the II-R strain bacteria. The III-S strain DNA contains the genes that form the shielding polysaccharide part from attack. Armed with this gene, the former II-R strain bacteria were now protected from the host's immune system and could kill the host.

The exact nature of the transforming principle was confirmed in the experiments done by Avery, McLeod and McCarty, as well as  Hershey and Chase.

[[Frederick Griffith]]

CATEGORIES: 1871 births, 1941 deaths, English geneticists, English physicians

Frederick Griffith (1879 - 1941) was a English medical officer and geneticist. In 1928, during an experiment, he discovered what he called a transforming principle, but today we call DNA. 

[[Streptococcus pneumoniae]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Streptococcus pneumoniae, or pneumococcus, is a gram-positive, alpha-hemolytic diplococcus aerotolerant anaerobe and a member of the genus Streptococcus. An important human pathogen, S. pneumoniae was recognized as a major cause of pneumonia in the late 19th century and is the subject of many humoral immunity studies.

[[Strain (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy, Classical genetics

In biology, a strain is a low-level taxonomic rank below the rank of species. This is seen in microbiology where strains are got from a single cell colony, and are quarantined by being in a Petri dish. Strains are also commonly referred to in virology, in horticulture, and with rodents used in experimental studies.

[[Hannes Schäfer]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, German musical entertainers

Dr. Johannes Schäfer, born 2nd October 1965 in Göttingen, Germany, was the bass player of the German rock band Fury in the Slaughterhouse from the beginning (1987) until 1996. Today (2008) he is a doctor.

Schäfer's first band was 1982 the punk band Defekt in Hanover, Germany, where he was singer and bass player. From 1985 until 1987 he played in the jazz rock band CIT., together with Mousse T. and at the same time he worked as a studio musician at the Stakkato Studio in Hannover.

In 1987 Schäfer founded the rock band Fury in the Slaughterhouse together with Kai and Christian Wingenfelder, Rainer Schumann and Christoph Stein-Schneider. He played the bass in this band until 1996, when he was followed by Christian Decker. Together with his band Schäfer was awarded golden recording sales certifications for the Fury albums Fury in the Slaughterhouse (1988), Mono (1992), and the Hearing and the Sense of Balance (1995). Fury in the Slaughterhouse sold about three million recordings of albums made in their time with Hannes Schäfer (1987-1996).

After leaving Fury in the Slaughterouse Schäfer studied medicine and today (2008) he works as a doctor in the hospital Vinzenzkrankenhaus in Hanover.

[[The Prestige]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 movies, American science fiction movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Christopher Nolan

The Prestige is a 2006 period movie directed by Christopher Nolan. The story follows Robert Angier and Alfred Borden, enemy stage magicians in fin de siècle London.  Obsessed with creating the best stage Magic, they take part in a competition with tragic results.

[[Javon Ringer]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, American football running backs, Tennessee Titans players, Sportspeople from Dayton, Ohio

Javon Ringer (born February 2, 1987, Dayton, Ohio) is an American football running back for the Tennessee Titans of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football at Michigan State University. He attended Chaminade Julienne High School, where he set many running records. 

[[Running back]]

CATEGORIES: American football positions, American football running backs

A running back (RB) is the position of a player on an American football team. They are the players who carry the ball the most. They receive handoffs, catch passes, and block for other runners.

[[Heisman Trophy]]

CATEGORIES: Heisman Trophy

The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award (often known simply as the Heisman Trophy or The Heisman), named after the former college football coach John Heisman, is awarded annually by the Downtown Athletic Club of New York City to the most outstanding player in collegiate football.

[[Place of birth]]

CATEGORIES: Human geography, Migration, Identification documents

The place of birth is the place where a person was born. This place is often used in legal documents, together with name and date of birth, to uniquely identify a person. Sometimes a person's place of birth decides the ethnicity of the person.

[[Run, Fat Boy, Run]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 comedy movies, 2007 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s sports comedy movies, British romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in London

Run Fat Boy Run is a 2007 British romantic comedy directed by David Schwimmer, written by Michael Ian Black and Simon Pegg, and starring Pegg, Dylan Moran, Thandie Newton, Harish Patel, India de Beaufort and Hank Azaria. It was released in the UK on 7 September 2007, in Canada on 10 September 2007 and in the United States on 28 March 2008.

[[And Now for Something Completely Different]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 movies, British comedy movies

And Now for Something Completely Different is a British movie spin-off from the comedy television series Monty Python's Flying Circus. The movie feature favorite sketches from the first two seasons. The title was used as a catchphrase in the series.

[[Abu Ghraib prison]]

CATEGORIES: Prisons, Buildings and structures in Iraq

The Abu Ghraib prison is a prison in Abu Ghraib, a city 32 km west of Baghdad, Iraq. It became known because the government of Iraq, when it was led by Saddam Hussein tortured and executed dissidents there. After the United States had invaded Iraq, there was also a scandal where US forces tortured prisoners there.

[[Trade (sports)]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

In professional sports, a trade is when one (or more) player's contract and/or draft picks is traded between sports teams. Cash is another thing that may be added with contracts and/or draft picks to make a trade.  Most often, trades are done between two teams, but there are times where trades are made between three or more teams.

[[Jet (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Australian hard rock bands, 2000s music groups, Australian alternative rock bands, Musical groups from Melbourne, Musical groups established in 2001, 2001 establishments in Australia

Jet is a hard rock band from Melbourne, Australia. They were formed in 2001. They have made two albums, Get Born and Shine On. Get Born sold over three and a half million copies worldwide.

[[Get Born]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Debut albums, Rock albums

Get Born is the first album by Australian band Jet.  It was recorded in 2003. It was released on September 14, 2003.  The song "Cold Hard Bitch" reached the top spot on the Modern Rock charts.

[[Tom Wills]]

CATEGORIES: 1835 births, 1880 deaths, Australian cricketers, Australian rules footballers, Sportspeople from New South Wales, Sportspeople who committed suicide, Suicides by blade weapons, Suicides in Australia

Thomas Wentworth "Tom" Wills (19 August 1835 – 3 May 1880) was an Australian all-round sportsman who helped invent Australian Football and helped write the Laws of Australian Football.

Wills was born in south-east New South Wales, Australia either near Gundagai or Queanbeyan.  

From the age of 14 he went to Rugby School in England.  At school he played both rugby football and cricket very well. By his final year in England, he was captain of the Rugby XI and he was listed in Bells Sporting Life as being one of the most promising young cricketers in England.

In 1859, Wills was involved with others in creating a set of football rules that were like a cross between rugby, soccer and Gaelic football. He made up the game for cricketers to keep in shape during the off-season (winter). Wills had help from people who included his cousin Henry Colden Harrison, and W.J. Hammersly and J.B. Thompson.  This game is now Australian Rules Football. 

Wills grew up with Indigenous Australians.  He spoke the language of the people who lived near him and played with the children.  It has been suggested that Australian Rules Football is based in part on Marn Grook, an Aboriginal game with some similar rules to Australian Rules Football. Because the indigenous people Wills played with as a child would have played Marn Grook, Wills would have been influenced by this game when creating the rules for Australian Rules Football.

Willis was an alcoholic. He committed suicide by stabbing himself in the heart.

[[Simple Plan (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Pop punk albums, Simple Plan albums

Simple Plan is the third, self-titled studio album by pop punk band Simple Plan.

[[N-type semiconductor]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components

An N-type semiconductor is a impurity mixed semiconductor material used in electronics. 

The pentavalent impure atoms like phosphorus, arsenic, antimony, bismuth or some other chemical element are used to produce n-type semiconductors. These impure atoms are called donor impurities because they give free electrons to a semiconductor. The doping increases the number of charge carriers in the material for conduction (read more: why do we need doping in semiconductor?). A n-type semiconductor is a lot more conductive than the pure silicon or germanium.

[[Pay television]]

CATEGORIES: Television technology

Pay television or premium television are subscription-based television services. They are found mainly on cable television or satellite television. Some parts of the world, like France and the US, have also offered encrypted analogue terrestrial signals, available if you pay a subscription.

[[Plug-in hybrid]]

CATEGORIES: Green vehicles

A plug-in hybrid car is similar to a conventional hybrid vehicle—both use a gasoline engine as well as an electric motor. A plug-in hybrid differs primarily in that it can be plugged in to charge the batteries, while a conventional hybrid relies solely on energy generated from braking, coasting or from the gasoline engine.

However, a plug-in hybrid uses larger battery packs that can be recharged by connecting to common household electricity. Plug-in hybrids can be driven for long distances—from a few miles to as much as 40 miles—without using any gasoline. Plug-in hybrid cars are also known as plug-in hybrid electric vehicles or PHEVs. Plug-in hybrid cars that use a gas engine exclusively for recharging batteries—rather than directly powering the wheels—are also called Extended-Range Electric Vehicles or E-REVs.

Fueling a car with electricity is about 5 times cheaper than fueling it with gasoline. That is equivalent to buying gasoline at less than $1 per gallon. It also reduces greenhouse pollution and helps reduce crude oil imports. Also plug-in hybrids produced substantially lower greenhouse gas emissions than either conventional gasoline cars or unplugged hybrids. The reduction in emissions results from electric operation being much more efficient than gasoline operation. 

[[Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, Electricity, Organizations in New York City, 1963 establishments in New York (state)

The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (or IEEE  for short) an international non-profit, professional organization for the advancement of technology related to electricity. It has the most members of any technical professional organization in the world, with more than 400,000 members in more than 160 countries. About 45% of IEEE's members live outside the United States.

It was formed in 1963 by the merger of the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE, founded 1912) and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE, founded 1884).

The IRE concerned mostly radio engineering. The major interests of the AIEE were wire communications and light and electric power systems. As technology developing, the IRE and the AIEE became difficult to distinguish. And people who belong to both group were increasing gradually. After World War II, the leadership of both the IRE and the AIEE merged the organizations on January 1, 1963.

IEEE says its purpose is "scientific and educational, directed toward the advancement of the theory and practice of electrical, electronics, communications and computer engineering, as well as computer science, the allied branches of engineering and the related arts and sciences." In pursuing these goals, the IEEE serves a major publisher of scientific journals, provides learning opportunities within the engineering sciences, research, and technology and so on.

IEEE consists of 150 countries, 350,000 members, 39 societies, organized around specialized technical fields, with more than 300 local organizations that hold regular meetings. Famous presidents of IEEE and its founding organizations include Elihu Thomson, Alexander Graham Bell, Ernst Weber. In 2008 the president of IEEE was Lewis M. Terman.

IEEE produces 30 percent of the world's literature in the electrical and electronics engineering and computer science fields, publishing well over 100 peer-reviewed journals.  The content in these journals and from several hundred annual conferences are available in the IEEE's online digital library.

[[Galvanometer]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Measuring tools, Machines

A galvanometer is a type of ammeter. It is an instrument for detecting and measuring electric current. It is named after Luigi Galvani. It is an analog electromechanical transducer that produces a rotary deflection, through a limited arc, in response to electric current flowing through its coil. The term has been expanded to include uses of the same mechanism in recording, positioning, and servomechanism equipment.

[[Magnetic tape]]

CATEGORIES: Magnetic tape, Storage devices

Magnetic tape is a long and narrow strip of plastic that thin magnetic material is coated on. Nearly all recording tape is of this type, whether used for recording audio or video or computer data storage.

Magnetic tape recording uses magnetic tape which moves on a recording head. Electrical signals are fed to the recording head, inducing a pattern of magnetization similar to the signal. A playback head can then pick up the changes in magnetic field from the tape and convert it into an electrical signal.

Devices that record and playback audio and video using magnetic tape are generally called tape recorders and videotape recorders respectively. A device that stores computer data on magnetic tape can be called a tape drive, a tape unit, or a streamer. Autoloaders and tape libraries are frequently used to automate cartridge handling.

[[Cathode]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components

A cathode is a type of electrode through which electrons move. Electrodes are an electrical conductor (usually a metal) that is connected to something that is not a metal. Electric current is a flow of charges through a conductor. There are two theories; one theory is  conventional current flow and the other is actual current flow. The anode delivers conventional (or customary) current (which travels in the opposite direction as electrons) and the cathode receives that current. This means that electrons come out of the anode and electrons go into the cathode.  

This lets an electric current go into an electrical device such as a battery or other electrical cell. It can also end in a vacuum, like in a cathode ray tube. In this case, the electrons may go into open space.

In other words, a cathode is a positive electrode on a battery and a negative electrode on an electrolytic cell. Electric current is perceived as flowing in the opposite direction that the electrons are flowing. So electrons go into the + (positive) terminal of a battery, but electric current goes out. Electrons go into the + (positive) terminal of an electrolytic cell, but electric current goes out.

An electrode through which electrons flows out of the device is termed a cathode because it is negatively charged. A cathode is a negative electrode on a battery and a negative electrode on an electrolytic cell.

[[United States Army Reserve]]

CATEGORIES: United States Army, 1908 establishments in the United States, 1920 establishments in the United States

The United States Army Reserve is the reserve force of the United States Army. People in the reserve forces are not full-time soldiers, they also have a civilian career. The reserve forces of the US Army are made of the US Army reserve and the Army National Guard.

The Army Reserve was formed in 1908 to provide a reserve of medical officers to the Army. After the First World War  Congress reorganized the U.S. land forces. The National Defence Act of 4 June 1920 authorized a Regular Army, a National Guard, and an Organized Reserve (Officers Reserve Corps and Enlisted Reserve Corps) of unrestricted size.  The Organized Reserve later became the Army Reserve.

[[Electrical telegraph]]

CATEGORIES: Postal history, History of technology, Telecommunications

The electrical telegraph is a telegraph that uses electric signals. In general the term electrical telegraph refers to a signalling system where an operator makes and breaks an electrical contact with a telegraph key which results in an audible signal at the other end produced by a telegraph sounder which is interpreted and transcribed by a human operator.

[[Calvados]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Normandy

Calvados is a French department in Lower Normandy.

[[Knol]]

CATEGORIES: Google

Knol is a Google project which aims to include user-written articles on a range of topics. The project was  announced on December 13, 2007 and opened in beta to the public on July 23, 2008. When it was opened, there were a few hundred articles mostly about health and medicine.

Knol pages are "meant to be the first thing someone who searches for this topic for the first time will want to read", according to Manber. The term knol, which Google defines as a "unit of knowledge", refers to both the project and an article in the project. Several experts see Knol as Google's attempt to compete with Wikipedia, while others point out the differences between the projects.

[[Criticism of Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikimedia

Wikipedia is a large, popular free encyclopedia written by volunteers. There is some criticism of Wikipedia.

[[Smile, It's the End of the World]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Pop punk albums, Hawk Nelson albums

Smile, it's the End of the World is the second album by pop punk band Hawk Nelson.  It was released on April 4, 2006.

[[Letters to the President]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Debut albums, Pop punk albums, Hawk Nelson albums

Letters to the President is the first album by pop punk band Hawk Nelson.  It was released on October 4, 2005.

[[Tonbridge Grammar School]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar schools in England, Kent, 1905 establishments in England

Tonbridge Grammar School (or just TGS) is a well known grammar school in Tonbridge, Kent. It has about 1050 students who are 11-18 years old. The school was called Tonbridge Grammar School For Girls until 2002, when boys were allowed into the 6th form.

[[Rechargeable battery]]

CATEGORIES: Batteries

A rechargeable battery, also called  a storage battery or a secondary cell, is a battery that can be recharged  over and over again with electricity.  A battery that is not rechargeable is called a primary cell or disposable battery. It is thrown away after it no longer works. The voltage of rechargeable batteries can be restored by passing an electric current through the battery. Car batteries, for example, work this way.. 

Rechargeable batteries are not always chosen.  Each battery costs more to make, and has more dangerous chemicals than disposable batteries.

Rechargeable batteries can be used for many smaller electronics such as MP3 players and flashlights.  Almost all mobile phones and laptop computers use them.  They are also used for car batteries.

[[2005 Pacific hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in weather, Pacific hurricane seasons, 2005 in North America

The 2005 Pacific hurricane season was a slightly inactive season that produced 17 tropical cyclones. It officially started on May 15 and ended on November 30, dates which conventionally delimit the period during which most tropical cyclones form in the northeast Pacific Ocean. The first  tropical cyclone, Hurricane Adrian, developed on May 17, while the last storm Tropical Depression Sixteen-E, dissipated on October 20. During the year, a total of 17 tropical cyclones, 15 tropical storms, 7 hurricanes and 2 major hurricanes formed. The most intense hurricane, Hurricane Kenneth remained out over open waters for the duration of its existence. However, the remnants of the storm caused minor flooding on the Island of Hawaii. September was the most active month of the year, as 6 of the 17 tropical cyclones formed during this time. 

The pre-season forecast from the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration called for 11-15 named storms and 6-8 hurricanes, of which 2-4 were expected to attain major hurricane status.

Very few storms impacted land throughout the season. Hurricane Adrian was the only landfalling system. It struck El Salvador as a dissipating tropical depression after rapidly weakening from hurricane status. Flooding in Nicaragua caused the only fatality during the season. Tropical Storm Dora and Hurricane Hilary brought tropical storm force winds to coastal Mexico, although no damage was reported. The remnants Tropical Depression One-C caused heavy rainfall on the Island of Hawaii, peaking at 8.8 in (223.52 mm). Hawaii was also affected by the remnants of Hurricane Kenneth which also caused heavy rains on the Island of Hawaii. The combined storms caused very little damage and only one fatality.

[[2007 Pacific hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific hurricane seasons, 2007 in weather, 2007 in North America

The 2007 Pacific hurricane season was a below average Pacific hurricane season with only one major hurricane. It officially started on May 15, 2007 in the eastern Pacific, designated as the area east of 140°W, and on June 1 2007 in the central Pacific, which is between the International Date Line and 140°W, and lasted until November 30, 2007. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the Pacific basin.

The season began slowly; through the end of July, the seasonal ACE was the third lowest since the geostationary satellite era began in 1966. The inactivity continued through the next month, which was the third quietest August in terms of ACE since reliable records began in the basin in 1971. Tropical Storm Barbara in June caused $55 million (2007 USD) in crop damage in southeastern Mexico from heavy precipitation. In August, Hurricane Flossie formed in the Eastern Pacific and crossed into the Central Pacific, threatening Hawaii but causing little damage. In early September, Hurricane Henriette dropped heavy rainfall in southwest Mexico, which caused nine fatalities and $25 million (2007 USD) in damage.

[[Government of Balochistan (Pakistan)]]

CATEGORIES: Balochistan (Pakistan), Government of Pakistan

Government of Balochistan is based in the largest province of Pakistan in Quetta. The head of the province is the Governor, who is nominated by the President of Pakistan. While the head of the Government of Balochistan is the Chief Minister who is elected by the Balochistan Assembly.

[[Klingon language]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek, Constructed languages

[[Chief Minister]]

A chief minister is the elected head of government of a sub-national or constituent federal state. Leaders with this role are usually elected in India or Australia.

[[Government of Punjab (Pakistan)]]

CATEGORIES: Punjab (Pakistan), Government of Pakistan

The Government of Punjab is a Provincial government in Pakistan. It is based in Lahore, the capital of the PUNJAB Province.

[[Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan

The Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is based in the city of Peshawar, the provincial capital of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, Pakistan.

The chief minister of kpk is         ( Mahmood khan).

Chief secretary is M.Salim.

Governor of kpk is ( Shah Farman).

I.G kpk is ( M.Naaem Khan).

Chief Minister of Education is Shafqat Mehmood.

Judge of High court is Waqar Ahmed Saith.

[[Government of Sindh]]

CATEGORIES: Sindh, Government of Pakistan

The Government of Sindh is based in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Lentil soup]]

CATEGORIES: Soups

Lentil soup (شوربة العدس shorbit adas or shurba al-'adas, Mercimek Çorbası, עדשה מרק nezid adashim) is a soup. It is served hot and made with lentils. It is popular all over the Middle East.  Usually it is a vegetarian soup, but can also be made with meat stock. Red or green lentils may be used and in some recipes the lentils are boiled with vegetables such as carrots, potatoes, parsley and onion, and then pureed. Things commonly added include garlic, cumin, and lemon juice. Sometimes croutons are added to make it look good.

Lentil soup is mentioned in the Bible: In Genesis 25:34, Esau is prepared to give up his birthright for a pot of fragrant red lentil soup being cooked by his brother, Jacob. 

The ancient Greek dramatist, Aristophanes, mentions lentil soup in his plays: He describes it as the "sweetest of delicacies."

Lentil soup was once a food for the poor. Today, it is recognized as highly nutritious and provides a good source of protein, fiber, iron and potassium.

[[Blizzard of Ozz]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 albums, Debut albums, Heavy metal albums

Blizzard of Ozz is a heavy metal album by Ozzy Osbourne, recorded in Surrey, UK and released on September 20, 1980 in the UK and on January 15, 1981 in the U.S..

This is Ozzy's  first solo album. The tracks "Crazy Train" and "Mr. Crowley" were released as singles. "Crazy Train" peaked at #9 on the Mainstream Rock Charts.

Blizzard of Ozz remains Osbourne's highest-selling album to date, selling over 4.1 million copies in the U.S. alone.

The album reached #21 on Billboard's Pop Albums chart, and is on the list of the top 100 best-selling albums of the 1980s.

[[Nightgown]]

CATEGORIES: Underwear

A nightgown or nightdress is a gown worn for sleeping. It is usually loose-fitting. There are different lengths, hip-length (called baby-doll), floor-length (called négligée) or knee-length.

Men wore them until about the 1940s when they changed to pajamas. Today, they are mostly worn by women.

[[Bolted joint]]

CATEGORIES: Hardware (mechanical)

Bolted joints are very common in construction and machine design. They are cap screws or studs that grab and join other parts, and are secured by screw threads.

[[Lyman Hall]]

CATEGORIES: 1724 births, 1790 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from Connecticut, Politicians from Georgia (US)

Lyman  Hall (April 12, 1724– October 19, 1790) was a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence as a representative of Georgia.  Hall County is named after him.

[[Button Gwinnett]]

CATEGORIES: 1735 births, 1777 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from Georgia (U.S. state), People from Gloucestershire

Button Gwinnett (baptized: April 10, 1735 – May 19, 1777), was second of the signatories (first signature on the left) on the United States Declaration of Independence as a representative of Georgia. He was also briefly the provisional president of Georgia in 1777, and Gwinnett County (now a major suburb of metro Atlanta) was named after him.

[[William Ellery]]

CATEGORIES: 1727 births, 1820 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from Rhode Island, Writers from Rhode Island

William Ellery (December 22, 1727–February 15, 1820), was a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence as one of two representatives from Rhode Island his signature is located 4 names below John Adams.  

Some of his descendants were William Ellery Channing, Richard Henry Dana, Edie Sedgwick and actress Kyra Sedgwick and Jadriene M. Ellery. Ellery Avenue in Middletown, Rhode Island is named in his honor.

[[William Floyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1734 births, 1821 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from New York

William Floyd (December 17, 1734–August 4, 1821), was a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence as a representative of New York.

[[George Clymer]]

CATEGORIES: 1739 births, 1813 deaths, Treasurers of the United States, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Signers of the United States Constitution, Politicians from Pennsylvania, Slavers

George Clymer (March 16, 1739 – January 23, 1813) was an American politician, Founding Father, and slave owner.

[[Abraham Clark]]

CATEGORIES: 1725 births, 1794 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, United States representatives from New Jersey

Abraham Clark (February 15, 1725 – September 15, 1794) was an American politician and Revolutionary War figure. He was delegate for New Jersey to the Continental Congress where he signed the Declaration of Independence and later served in the United States House of Representatives in both the Second and Third United States Congress, from March 4, 1791, until his death in 1794.

[[Charles Carroll of Carrollton]]

CATEGORIES: 1737 births, 1832 deaths, American Roman Catholics, People from Annapolis, Maryland, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, United States senators from Maryland

Charles Carroll of Carrollton (September 19, 1737 – November 14 1832) was a delegate to the Continental Congress and later United States Senator for Maryland. He was the only Catholic signer of the Declaration of Independence. He was the longest lived signer of the Declaration of Independence and the Continental Congress, dying at the age of 95.

He was a rich planter. Although he opposed slavery he had slaves.

[[Cotidianul]]

CATEGORIES: Romania, Newspapers in Europe

Cotidianul is a Romanian newspaper. It is published from Monday to Saturday in Berliner format. It was started by Ion Raţiu. The first issue was published on May 10, 1991. 

[[Samuel Huntington (statesman)]]

CATEGORIES: 1731 births, 1796 deaths, Governors of Connecticut, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence

Samuel Huntington (July 16, 1731 - January 5, 1796) was an American jurist, statesman, and revolutionary leader from Connecticut. He served as a delegate to the Continental Congress where he signed the Declaration of Independence, as Governor of Connecticut, and later as the first President of the United States in Congress Assembled, that is, the presiding officer of the Congress of the Confederation, the sole governing body of the first central government of the United States of America. His office was not that of today's President of the United States, which is a federal chief executive position created under the later United States Constitution.

[[Francis Hopkinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1737 births, 1791 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from New Jersey

Francis Hopkinson (September 21, 1737 – May 9, 1791), an American author, was one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence as a delegate from New Jersey. His supporters believe he played a part in the design of the first American flag.

[[Stephen Hopkins (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1707 births, 1785 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from Rhode Island, Chief justices, Writers from Rhode Island

Stephen Hopkins (March 7, 1707 – July 13, 1785) was an American political leader from Rhode Island who signed the Declaration of Independence. He served as the Chief Justice and Governor of colonial Rhode Island and was a Delegate to the Colonial Congress in Albany in 1754 and to the Continental Congress from 1774 to 1776.

[[William Hooper]]

CATEGORIES: 1742 births, 1790 deaths, American lawyers, Politicians from North Carolina, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence

William  Hooper (June 17, 1742–October 14, 1790), was an American lawyer, politician, and a member of the Continental Congress representing North Carolina from 1774 through 1777.  Hooper was also a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence.

[[Thomas Heyward, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1746 births, 1809 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from South Carolina

Thomas  Heyward, Jr. (July 28, 1746 – March 6, 1809), was a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence and of the Articles of Confederation as a representative of South Carolina.

[[John Hart]]

CATEGORIES: 1710 births, 1779 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Politicians from New Jersey

John Hart (c. 1711 – May 11, 1779) was a Delegate from New Jersey to the Continental Congress and a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence.

[[Benjamin Harrison V]]

CATEGORIES: 1726 births, 1791 deaths, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, William Henry Harrison, Governors of Virginia

Benjamin Harrison V (April 5, 1726– April 24, 1791) was an American revolutionary leader from Charles City County, Virginia. He was educated at the College of William and Mary. Harrison was a representative for Surry County, Virginia (1756-1758) and Charles City County (1766-1776) to the House of Burgesses. He was a Virginia delegate to the Continental Congress from 1774 to 1777, signed the Declaration of Independence, and was Governor of Virginia from 1781 to 1784.

[[Government of France]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of France

The government of France is  a semi-presidential system determined by the French Constitution of the French fifth Republic. The nation declares itself to be "an indivisible, secular, democratic, and social Republic" in it. The constitution provides for a separation of powers. It proclaims France's "attachment to the Rights of Man and the principles of national sovereignty defined by the Declaration of 1789."

France has 3 branches of government.

[[Advanced Placement Program]]

CATEGORIES: Education, Examinations

The Advanced Placement Program, or AP, is a program that offers higher level school classes for high school students in Canada and the United States. Good Schools Guide International says it is "much more difficult than most classes", although it is not as difficult as the IB program.

[[Paramilitary forces of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Pakistan

The paramilitary forces of Pakistan consist of various organizations constitutionally charged to safeguard Pakistan's national interests. They protect from threats that could come from other countries, like from India over the border dispute of Kashmir. They also protect citizens from threats that could come from inside the country. These threats started in 1971. They are currently made up from more than 300,000 workers.

Some divisions of the force are now incorporated under other organisations. For example, the Northern Light Infantry was a paramilitary force until 1999, when it became part of the Pakistan Army.

[[Pakistan Coast Guard]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan, Coast guards

Pakistan Coast Guard (پاک ساحلی فوج) (PCG), is responsible for the law at sea, maintenance of seamarks, border control, and other services. The Coast Guards work mainly on rivers and land, in contrast to the Navy who handle deep sea operations. The Coast Guards handle smugglers and terrorists and enforce law on beaches and other coastal areas. The PCG has a fleet of 23 small craft but the exact number of personnel assigned to the PCG remains a secret.

[[Minority group]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights

A minority or subordinate group is a group that does not make up most of the population of a society. For example:  minor group of religion, race, language, LGBT, and persons with disabilities. 

A minority is not always a minority of numbers — it may be any group that is not normal with respect to a leading group in terms of social status, education, employment, wealth, and political power, and can be an object of discrimination. For example, women may be considered a minority even if there are as many women as men because they have less power than men.

International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights by United Nations protects the right of minority group in Article 27 and Council of Europe also affirms protection for them. 

[[Ruskie]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Ruskie is a village in Scotland. Location: 56.17

[[Aberfoyle, Stirling]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Aberfoyle is a village in Scotland. It is in the Stirling council area.

[[Aberfoyle]]

Aberfoyle may mean:

[[Altskeith]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Altskeith Country House, is a traditional Scottish country house built in 1898. The property enjoys a magnificent position on the edge of Loch Ard with spectacular views South over the loch and West to Ben Lomond. Altskeith Country House lies in the heart of Loch Lomond and The Trossachs  National Park.

The area where Altskeith Country House is located has excellent leisure facilities including a sailing club and the MacDonald Forest Hills Hotel and Spa. There is also the village of Aberfoyle at only 4 miles.

Altskeith featured as Glenkirk House in the 1959 adaptation of The 39 Steps.

[[Puslinch, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ontario

Puslinch is a township in south-central Ontario, Canada, in the County of Wellington south of Guelph. Aberfoyle was first settled in the 1840s and is named for Aberfoyle, Scotland. It is the administrative centre for Puslinch.

[[Ardchyle]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Ardchyle is a small village in Scotland. It is in the Stirling council area.

[[Ardeonaig]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Ardeonaig is a village in Scotland. It is in the Stirling council area.

[[Stirling (council area)]]

CATEGORIES: Stirling

Stirling (Sruighlea in Gaelic) is one of the 32 unitary local government council areas of Scotland, and has a population of about 85,000.

[[Arnprior, Stirling]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Arnprior is a village in Scotland. It is in the Stirling council area.

[[Fintry]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Fintry is a small village in central Scotland, nestled in the strath of the Endrick Water in the Campsie Fells some 35 km north of Glasgow. It is part of Stirling District.  As of the 2001 census, Fintry and the surrounding rural area had a population of 2300 people.

[[Rowardennan]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in Scotland

Rowardennan (Gaelic: Rubha Aird Eònain) is a small hamlet on the eastern shore of Loch Lomond in Scotland.

[[Strathblane]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Strathblane (Scottish Gaelic: Strath Bhlàthain s̪d̪̊ɾahˈvlˠ̪aː.ɪɲ) is a village and parish at the extreme south of the Stirling council area, in central Scotland.

[[Thornhill, Stirling]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Thornhill is a village in the Scottish council area of Stirling. It lies 14 miles from Stirling itself, south of Callander, east of Aberfoyle and west of Doune.

The 2001 census population for the area covered by the Thornhill and Blairdrummond Community Council is 1,109.

[[Tyndrum]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Tyndrum (Taigh an Droma in Gaelic) is a small village in Scotland.

[[Biggar]]

Biggar may mean:

[[Hamilton]]

Hamilton might mean:

[[Blantyre, South Lanarkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Blantyre (Baile an t-Saoir) is a burgh in South Lanarkshire, Scotland with a population of about 17,000.

[[Bothwell]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Bothwell is a small town in South Lanarkshire, Scotland, that lies on the right bank of the River Clyde, adjacent to Hamilton and nine miles east-south-east of Glasgow. It is predominantly a residential town.

[[Burnside, South Lanarkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Burnside is an area of South Lanarkshire. It is part of The Royal Burgh of Rutherglen and Greater Glasgow. It borders with Cambuslang, Blairbeth, Fernhill and Eastfield.

[[Uddingston]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Uddingston is a village in South Lanarkshire, Scotland, on the north side of the River Clyde, approximately seven miles to the south-east of Glasgow.

[[East Kilbride]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

East Kilbride is a large suburban town in the South Lanarkshire council area of Scotland. It is Scotland's first new town, and lies on high ground on the south side of the Cathkin Braes, about 8 southeast of Glasgow city centre. The Rotten Calder river flows along the east side of the settlement, northwards toward the River Clyde. The town is also known as the Polo Mint city due to its many roundabouts.

[[Fairhill, Hamilton, Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Fairhill is an area in the town of Hamilton, South Lanarkshire, Scotland.

They have schools, churches, a civic centre, a library and shopping places.

[[TNA X Division Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Impact Wrestling, 2002 establishments

The TNA X Division Championship is a professional wrestling championship in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). The championship is defended by wrestlers in the X Division, meaning high flyers and cruiserweights. The championship debuted on June 19, 2002 at the taping of TNA's second weekly pay-per-view (PPV) event.

The current champion is Samoa Joe who is in his fifth reign. Joe defeated Low Ki and Seiya Sanada in a three-way match on June 27, 2014 in New York, NY during the Impact Wrestling tapings (airing August 7) to win the vacant title after the former champion Austin Aries intentionally forfeited the championship for a TNA World Heavyweight Championship match.

[[WWE Hardcore Championship]]

CATEGORIES: WWE

The WWF Hardcore Championship is a former championship for World Wrestling Federation. The first champion was crowned when the championship was awarded to Mankind by Vince McMahon. It was defended always in some sort of Hardcore match due to its name. When Crash Holly won the title however, he started what became known as the 24/7 rule. Which means the title was being defended at all times. Anyone could surprise the title holder and pin him to become the new champion anywhere, as long as a Referee was present. The last official champion was Rob Van Dam when he won the title from Tommy Dreamer to unify the title with the WWF Intercontinental Championship.

[[Spoonman]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 songs, Grammy Award winning songs, Soundgarden

"Spoonman" is a song by the American grunge band Soundgarden, from their fourth studio album Superunknown, which was released in 1994. The song describes Artie the Spoonman, a real-life musician who makes music with spoons. He was also featured in the song's music video. "Spoonman" won the Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance at the 1995 Grammy Awards.

[[808s & Heartbreak]]

CATEGORIES: Kanye West albums, 2008 albums, Electronica albums, Hip hop albums, Island Records albums, R&B albums

808s and Heartbreak is the fourth studio album by American rapper and producer Kanye West. It was released on November 24, 2008. Four singles were released from it. The first single was "Love Lockdown". The album is different to West's earlier albums; it is mainly an R&B instead of a hip hop album and its songs are sung instead of rapped.

[[Watchmen]]

CATEGORIES: Comics, Hugo Award winning books

Watchmen is a Hugo Award-winning graphic novel. It was written by Alan Moore, illustrated by Dave Gibbons, and published by DC Comics from 1986–1987. In 2005, Time magazine listed Watchmen as one "the 100 best English-language novels from 1923 to the present".

[[Vocalion Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels

Vocalion Records was a record label which made records in the United States and in the United Kingdom. 

[[Municipalities of Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Belgium

Belgium is made of 589 municipalities (Dutch: gemeenten, French: communes, German: Gemeinde). These municipalities are grouped into ten provinces (five belonging to the Flemish Region with 308 municipalities, five to the Walloon Region with 262 municipalities), and the Brussels-Capital Region (with 19 municipalities).

Usually, municipalities are the smallest subdivisions of Belgium, but in municipalities with more than 100,000 people living there, they get divided into districts (districten).

[[Provinces of Belgium]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Belgium

Belgium is divided into three regions (Flemish Region, Walloon Region and Brussels-Capital Region), two of them are subdivided into five provinces each.

[[Mikhail Nesterov]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1942 deaths, Russian Orthodox Christians, Russian painters

Mikhail Vasilyevich Nesterov (Михаи́л Васи́льевич Не́стеров) (May 31, Ufa – 18 October 1942, Moscow) was a Russian painter. He was a very important painter for religious symbolism in Russian art. He studied under Pavel Tchistyakov at the Imperial Academy of Arts. Later, he felt attracted to  the group of artists known as the Peredvizhniki. His canvas The Vision of the Youth Bartholomew (1890–91) is often considered to mark the inauguration of the Russian Symbolist movement. This painting shows the conversion of Sergii Radonezhsky. From 1890 to 1910, Nesterov lived in Kiev and St Petersburg, working on frescoes in St. Vladimir's Cathedral and the Church on Spilt Blood, respectively. After 1910, he spent the rest of his life in Moscow, working in the Marfo-Mariinsky Convent. As a devout Orthodox Christian, he did not accept the Bolshevik Revolution but remained in Russia until his death, painting the portraits of Ivan Ilyin, Ivan Pavlov, Otto Schmidt, and Vera Mukhina, among others.

[[AMC Gremlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s automobiles

AMC Gremlin   was a car produced by American Motors from 1970 through 1978.

[[Manichaeism]]

CATEGORIES: Esotericism

Manichaeism (in Modern Persian آیین مانی Āyin e Māni) was one of the major Iranian Gnostic and dualist religions. Originally it came from Sassanid Persia. Most of the original writings of the founding prophet Mani (Syriac, ܡܐܢܝ, c. AD 210–276) have been lost, but many translations and fragmentary texts have survived. Manichaeism was big between the third and seventh centuries. At its height it was one of the most widespread religions in the world. Manichaean churches and scriptures existed as far east as China and as far west as the Roman Empire. Manichaeism appears to have died out before the sixteenth century in southern China.

The original six sacred books of Manichaeism were written in Syriac Aramaic. They were soon translated into other languages to help spread the religion.  As they spread to the east, the Manichaean writings passed through Middle Persian, Parthian, Sogdian, and ultimately Uyghur and Chinese translations.  As they spread to the west, they were translated into Greek, Coptic, and Latin. The spread and success of Manichaeism were seen as a threat to other religions, and it was widely persecuted in Christian, Zoroastrian, and later, Islamic areas.

[[Ford Windstar]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Windstar was a minivan produced by Ford Motor Company from 1995 through 2003 in two generations.  

The Windstar turned into the Ford Freestar in 2004.  

[[LDV Convoy]]

CATEGORIES: Vans, Buses

LDV Convoy is a van and minibus made by LDV Limited from 1996 to 2006.

Between 2000-2005 the model was improved at the front and back, It had a transparent front and back headlights.

In 2006 the Convoy was replaced by the LDV Maxus.

[[Ford Freestar]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Freestar was a minivan produced by Ford Motor Company from 2004 through 2007. Ford claimed it was "all-new", but it was just a modern version of the Ford Windstar minivan.April 2009 The name changed because Ford wanted to start every car name with the letter "F". (Other cars named like this were the Ford Five Hundred and Ford Fusion.)  

The Freestar has room for seven people inside. It is front-wheel drive like the Ford Windstar. The Freestar has the same platform as the Windstar.  

The Freestar didn't sell too well because people were buying SUV's instead. This caused it to stop being produced. Ford made the Ford Flex in 2008 to replace the Freestar. The Flex had a new design which did not look like the Freestar any more.  

[[Cambuslang]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Cambuslang (Scottish Gaelic for Camas Long from camas - river bend, long - ship) is a town on the south-eastern outskirts of Glasgow, Scotland located within the local authority area of South Lanarkshire. It is known as "the largest village in Scotland", with a population of around 24,500.

[[Rigside]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Rigside is a small village in South Lanarkshire, Scotland, about 5 miles from the town of Lanark, and less than a mile from Douglas Water. It lies on the A70 road to Ayr, and has approximately 800 inhabitants. Rigside used to be a mining village.

[[Lesmahagow]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Lesmahagow (Gaelic: Lios MoChuda) is a small town on the edge of moorland, near Lanark in the central belt of Scotland, and is also known as Abbey Green.

[[Larkhall]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Larkhall is a town in South Lanarkshire, Scotland, and is around 18 miles southeast of Glasgow. It had a population of 15,549 recorded in the 2001 census, and is a typical west of Scotland industrial town.

[[Strathaven]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Strathaven (Strathaven.ogg; Straiven; from Strath Aibhne s̪t̪ɾah ˈajnə, meaning: valley of the Avon)October 2007 is a small town in South Lanarkshire, Scotland. The town has was granted a Royal Charter in 1450, making the Town of Strathaven a Burgh of Barony. The current estimated population is 7,500.

[[Stonehouse, South Lanarkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Stonehouse is a small rural village in South Lanarkshire, Scotland. It is on Avon Water in an area of natural beauty and historical interest, near to the Clyde Valley.

[[Rutherglen]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Rutherglen (pronounced: ruh-ther-glen) is a town in South Lanarkshire, Scotland. Rutherglen comes from the Gaelic An Ruadh Ghleann, meaning "the red valley". In 1975, it lost its own local council and administratively became a component of the City of Glasgow. In 1996 Rutherglen was reallocated to the South Lanarkshire council area.

[[Ford Taurus]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles, Full-size vehicles

The Ford Taurus was a car produced by Ford Motor Company from 1986 through 2006. In 2008 Ford sold a rebadged Ford Five Hundred as the Taurus. They also renamed the Ford Freestyle crossover CUV as the “Taurus X”. These cars were produced through the 2015 model year. For 2016 Ford showed a new luxury version of the Taurus. But this version was only sold in China. Ford ended production of the Taurus shortly after due to falling sales and increased demand for crossover models and SUV's.

[[Aberdeenshire]]

CATEGORIES: Aberdeenshire

Aberdeenshire (Siorrachd Obar Dheathain) is the name of both a county and of one of the 32 unitary council areas in Scotland.  The two are not the same area.

[[Alford, Aberdeenshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Alford (pronounced "aaford") is a large village in Aberdeenshire, north-east Scotland, lying just south of the River Don. The place-name is thought to come from the Scots "auld ford"; its original position being on the banks of the Don. The "L" sound in the word has, over time, been dropped, and is silent.

[[Ballater]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Ballater is a burgh in Aberdeenshire, Scotland on the River Dee, immediately east of the Cairngorm Mountains.

[[Mary Douglas]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2007 deaths, British writers, British anthropologists

Mary Douglas, DBE, FBA (25 March 1921 – 16 May 2007) was a British anthropologist, known for her writings on human culture and symbolism.

[[Westhill]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Westhill is a town in Aberdeenshire, in the parish of Skene, directly west of Aberdeen. It is connected to the city by the A944 road.  It is also near Skene, and has a swimming pool, tennis courts, carnival and theme park.

[[Zora Neale Hurston]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1960 deaths, Writers from Alabama, American anthropologists

Zora Neale Hurston (January 7, 1891–January 28, 1960) was an American folklorist and author during the time of the Harlem Renaissance, best known for the 1937 novel Their Eyes Were Watching God. Hurston was a Republican.

[[Ruth Landes]]

CATEGORIES: Scientists from New York, American anthropologists, People from New York City, Columbia University alumni, 1908 births, 1991 deaths

Ruth Landes (October 8, 1908, New York City – February 11, 1991, Ontario, Canada) was an American cultural anthropologist best known for studies on Brazilian candomblé cults and her published study on the topic, City of Women (1947). Landes is recognized by some as a pioneer in the study of race and gender relations.

[[Niobe]]

CATEGORIES: People in Greek mythology

In Greek mythology, Niobe (Νιόβη) was the daughter of the semi-legendary ruler Tantalus, called the "Phrygian" and sometimes even as "King of Phrygia"  Tantalus ruled in Sipylus, a city located at the western end of Anatolia. The city has the same name than the mountain on which it was founded (Mount Sipylus) and of which few traces remain, and not in the traditional heartland of Phrygia lying more inland and centered around Gordion. Niobe was an Anatolian princess. She married Amphion of Thebes and Greek mythology was a vehicle for her historical record mixed with legends. Niobe was the sister of Pelops, who gave his name to the Peloponnese.

[[Ashfield, Stirling]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Ashfield is a village in Stirling, Scotland.

[[Auchtubh]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Auchtubh is a village in Stirling, Scotland.

[[Balfron]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Balfron, is a village in the Stirling council area of Scotland. It is near Endrick Water on the A875 road, 18 miles (29 km) west of Stirling and 16 miles (26 km) north of Glasgow. Although a rural settlement, it lies within commuting distance of Glasgow, and serves as a dormitory town. It has shops, a health centre, a village hall and a secondary school (Balfron High School). The village also contains a fire station, garage, ambulance depot, police station, primary school, bowling green and an 18 hole golf course. The residential special school Ballikinrain is also located in Balfron and caters to intervening for boys with special needs from all over Scotland.

[[Deanston]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Deanston is a village in the district of Stirling, 

Scotland, on the south bank of the River Teith, formerly of West Perthshire. It is a part of the parish of Kilmadock.

[[Drymen]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Drymen is a village in Stirling district in central Scotland.  Drymen lies to the west of the Campsie Fells and enjoys views to Dumgoyne on the east and to Loch Lomond on the west. The Queen Elizabeth Forest reaches down to the village edge, and the whole area is part of the Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park (the first National Park in Scotland).

[[Inversnaid]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Inversnaid is a village on the east bank of Loch Lomond in Scotland, near the north end of the loch.  It has a pier and a hotel, and the West Highland Way passes through the village. A small passenger ferry runs from Inversnaid to Inveruglas on the opposite shore of the loch. To reach Inversnaid by road involves a lengthy overland route from Aberfoyle. It is also the title of a poem by Gerard Manley Hopkins.

[[Gartmore]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Gartmore is a village in the Stirling council area, Scotland. It is a picturesque little village with an excellent view of the Wallace Monument in Stirling, almost 25 miles away.

Formerly in lowland Perthshire, it is one mile from the A81 Glasgow to Aberfoyle road, three miles south of Aberfoyle.

[[Gargunnock]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Gargunnock is a small village in the Stirling council area approximately seven miles west of Stirling, in Scotland. The 2001 census population was 944.

[[Crianlarich]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Crianlarich (A' Chrìon Làraich in Gaelic) is a village in Stirling district, Scotland, about six miles north-east of the head of Loch Lomond. Until 1975, it was in the historic county of Perthshire. The village's name derives from the Gaelic for "low pass", relating to its geographical location.

[[Croftamie]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Croftamie is a small village near Drymen in Scotland. The village was traditionally part of Dunbartonshire, but a minor change in boundaries means that it is now under Stirling Council.

[[Cambuskenneth]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Cambuskenneth (Gaelic: Camas Sgeanail) is a village in the city of Stirling, in central Scotland. It has a population of 250 and is the site of the historic Cambuskenneth Abbey. It is by the River Forth and the only road access to the village is along Ladysneuk Road from Alloa Road in Causewayhead.

[[Volvo S80]]

CATEGORIES: Volvo automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Volvo S80 is a car produced by Volvo from 1998 to 2016 in two generations. The first generation was made from 1998 to 2006. The second generation was made from 2006 to 2016 and had an estate variant called V70. In 2016 the car was replaced by the S90. 

[[Garhi Yasin]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Talukas of Sindh

Garhi Yasin is a town and taluka in the north of Sindh province of Pakistan. It is the second largest town in the Shikarpur District. It is also one of the four divisions of the districts. The town has a population of more than 14,000. Garhi Yasin is on the right bank of River Indus. The area has always been important as a part of the trade route through the Bolan Pass.

The town is named after its founder, Yasin Khan Pathan. Sindhi is the common language of the people in this region. The population of the town includes members of many different tribes. These tribes include the Pathan,mangi, Memon, Soomra, Shaikh, Syed, Mirani, Qazi, Bhutta, Abra, Channa, Lashari, Bhatti, Dinari, Mahar, Kakepota, Brohi and others. Beside a large number of Hindu, Punjabi and some Muhajirs (from India) also live in the town. The people live here without any discrimination of caste, color, language and religion.

[[Binturong]]

CATEGORIES: Viverrids

A binturong (Arctictis binturong) is a large, rare mammal that lives in trees in the dense forests of southeast Asia. The binturong is also often called a bearcat because it looks like both a bear and a cat.

[[Kippen]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Kippen is a small village approximately 10 west of the city of Stirling, Scotland (also referred to as the Kingdom of Kippen).  It lies between the Gargunnock and Fintry hills and overlooks the strath of the River Forth.  The name probably comes from Gaelic, and means "Place of the little stump", "outcrop" or "block".

[[Kilmahog]]

CATEGORIES: Stirling, Hamlets in Scotland

Kilmahog  (Cille MoChùig = Cell of St. Chug) is a hamlet situated half a mile to the west of Callander, Scotland, at the junction of the Trossachs and Lochearnhead roads.

[[Killin]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Killin (Cill Fhinn, 'the White Fair Church') is a village with about 640 people. It is at the western head of Loch Tay in Stirling (formerly Perthshire), Scotland.

[[Killearn]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Killearn (Cill Earnain) is a small village of approximately 1700 people in the Stirling council area of Scotland.  The village is located about 18 north of Glasgow, and 9 away from Loch Lomond.  The Glengoyne distillery is also situated just outside the village.

[[Balmaha]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Balmaha (Gaelic: Baile MoThatha) is a small village on the eastern shore of Loch Lomond in the council area of Stirling, Scotland.

The village has a few shops. There is an inn called the Oak Tree Inn. There is also a village shop, selling gifts and food. There is also a visitor centre. 

[[Balquhidder]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Balquhidder (Both Chuidir) is a small village in the Stirling council area of Scotland. It is overlooked by the dramatic mountain terrain of the Braes of Balquhidder, at the head of Loch Voil. Balquhidder Glen is also popular for fishing, nature watching and walking. Above the village, Creag an Tuirc is a fine viewpoint, well worth the short climb.

[[Bannockburn]]

CATEGORIES: Stirling, Towns in Scotland

Bannockburn is a small town immediately south of the city of Stirling in Scotland.  It is named after the Bannock Burn, a burn (small stream) running through the town before flowing into the River Forth.

[[Georg Michael Telemann]]

CATEGORIES: German composers, 1748 births, 1831 deaths

Georg Michael Telemann (born 20 April 1748 in Plön, died March 4, 1831 in Riga) was a German composer and theologian. He is mainly known for the Church music he wrote. His grandfather, Georg Philipp Telemann, is better known.

[[Blair Drummond]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Blair Drummond (sometimes known as Blairdrummond) is a small rural community near Stirling in Scotland. It is along the A84 road.

[[Blairlogie]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Stirling council

Blairlogie is at the base of the great cliff of Dumyat between Stirling and Menstrie was one of central Scotland's earliest Conservation Villages. Blairlogie mainly has cottages from the 17th through the 19th centuries.

Between 1598 and 1609, the minister of Logie Parish was the poet Alexander Hume.

[[Boquhan]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in Scotland

Boquhan is a hamlet in Stirling, Scotland near the bigger villages of Killearn and Balfron. It is also called Wester Boquhan.

[[Alan Keyes]]

CATEGORIES: Harvard University alumni, 1996 United States presidential candidates, 2000 United States presidential candidates, 2008 United States presidential candidates, Politicians from New York City, 1950 births, Living people, American political activists

Alan Lee Keyes (born August 7, 1950) is a conservative American political activist, author, and former diplomat, and candidate for public office. He ran for President of the United States in 1996, 2000, and 2008, and was a Republican nominee for the U.S. Senate in 1988, 1992, and 2004.

[[1996 Pacific hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific hurricane seasons, 1996 in North America

The 1996 Pacific hurricane season was an event in tropical cyclone formation and the second least active Pacific hurricane season in recorded history, behind only 1977. It officially began May 15, 1996 in the eastern north Pacific and on June 1, 1996 in the central north Pacific. It ended on November 30, 1996. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the northeastern Pacific Ocean.

Few notable storms formed this season, however it was very eventful. Twelve tropical cyclones formed during this season, of which five made landfall and two other impacted land areas. Two tropical cyclones that formed in other basins entered the eastern north Pacific Ocean. Early in the season three tropical cyclones impacted Mexico in a ten-day span, while the first cyclone of the season formed before it officially began. Hurricane Douglas was the strongest storm, reaching Category 4 intensity on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale and had its beginnings in the Atlantic as Hurricane Douglas.

[[2002 Pacific hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific hurricane seasons, 2002 in weather

The 2002 Pacific hurricane season was an event in tropical cyclone meteorology. The most notable storm this year was Hurricane Kenna, which reached Category 5 on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. It made landfall near Puerto Vallarta, Jalisco, Mexico, on October 25. It killed four people and was one of the most powerful hurricanes to ever strike the western coast of Mexico. Elsewhere, Tropical Storm Julio made landfall in Mexico, and Tropical Storm Boris dumped torrential rain along the Mexican coast, although it remained offshore. 

Other storms were individually unusual. Hurricanes Elida and Hernan also reached Category 5 intensity, but neither did any damage. Hurricane Fausto, while it had no effect on land, regenerated into a tiny tropical storm at a very high latitude.

[[Hurricane Kenna]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 in weather, East Pacific hurricanes, Retired tropical cyclone names, Hurricanes in Mexico, 2000s in Mexico

Hurricane Kenna was a destructive hurricane of the 2002 Pacific hurricane season. It was one of the strongest Pacific hurricanes to ever strike Mexico.

Kenna formed in the eastern Pacific on October 22. It strengthened rapidly, reaching category five on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale on October 25. Hurricane Kenna weakened to category four before striking land near Puerto Vallarta later that day. The only Pacific hurricanes to strike Mexico at greater intensity were 1976's Hurricane Madeline and an unnamed 1959 storm.

Officials reported four deaths from Hurricane Kenna.

[[1994 Pacific hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific hurricane seasons, 1994 in North America

The 1994 Pacific hurricane season officially started on May 15, 1994 in the eastern Pacific, and on June 1, 1994 in the central Pacific, and lasted until November 30, 1994. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the northeastern Pacific Ocean.

Of note in this season is an unusual spree of very intense storms. Hurricanes Emilia, Gilma, John, and Olivia all reached a pressure below 930 millibars. Elsewhere, Hurricane Rosa killed several people in Mexico.

[[Hurricane John (1994)]]

CATEGORIES: East Pacific hurricanes, 1994 in North America, 20th century in Hawaii

Hurricane John was the longest-lived tropical cyclone ever observed, tracking from the Eastern Pacific to the Western Pacific and crossing back to the Central Pacific for 31 days total.

The precursor to Hurricane John was a tropical wave that moved off the coast of Africa on July 25th. It moved across the unfavorable Atlantic, and reached the Eastern Pacific on August 8th. It slowly organized, and became Tropical Depression 10-E on August 11th, 300 nautical miles south-southeast of Acapulco, Mexico. Conditions were not ideal for development, but it developed banding features and well-defined outflow, and managed to strengthen to become Tropical Storm John later that day.

A strong ridge of high pressure over the Northeastern Pacific Ocean forced John westward, where upper level shear kept John a tropical storm as its intensity fluctuated. The shear greatly lessened greatly on the 19th, and John became a hurricane on the 20th. Later that day, it became a major hurricane, and crossed into the Central Pacific shortly thereafter.

Hurricane John continued to strengthen, and reached a peak of 150 knots (175 mph winds) on the 23rd, passing 300 nautical miles south of Hawaii. John had posed a threat to the island days before, but the ridge of high pressure pushed John safely south of the island. The hurricane still caused heavy waves and rains, though. During these days, John's intensity was constantly checked by Air Force Reserve aircraft reconnaissance.

John turned more northerly, where it steadily weakened to a minimal hurricane on the 26th. Then, it crossed just north of Johnston Island, where it caused moderate damage. Conditions again favored strengthening, and John re-strengthened to a 135 mph Category 4 hurricane, but upper level shear again weakened it. John crossed the International Date Line, and became Typhoon John.

The system continued to weaken, becoming a tropical storm on the 31st and a tropical depression on the 2nd while drifting eastward. John looped back to the northwest, and gradually restrengthened. An upper trough pulled the storm to the northeast on the 7th, and re-entered the Central Pacific on the 8th. John became a hurricane again late on the 8th, and retained that intensity for another day. Upper level shear weakened the hurricane to a tropical storm on the 10th, and John became extratropical in the North Central Pacific about a thousand miles south of Unalaska Island. John dissipated later that day, after an unprecedented 31 days at sea.

[[Hurricane–Typhoon Paka]]

CATEGORIES: Retired tropical cyclone names, Pacific typhoons

Hurricane Paka (international designation: 9728, JTWC designation: 05C, PAGASA designation: Rubing, also known as  Typhoon Paka) was the last tropical cyclone in the 1997 Pacific hurricane and typhoon season, and was among the strongest Pacific typhoons in the month of December. Paka, which is the Hawaiian name for Pat, developed on November 28 from a trough well to the southwest of Hawaii. The storm tracked generally westward for much of its duration, and on December 7 it crossed into the western Pacific Ocean. Much of its track was characterized by fluctuations in intensity, and on December 10 the cyclone attained typhoon status as it crossed the Marshall Islands. On December 16, Paka struck Guam and Rota with winds of 230 km/h (145 mph), and it strengthened further to reach peak winds on December 18 over open waters. Subsequently, it underwent a steady weakening trend, and on December 23 Paka dissipated.

Typhoon Paka first impacted the Marshall Islands, where it dropped heavy rainfall and left $80 million in damage (1997 USD, $100 million 2007 USD). Later, it passed just north of Guam, where strong winds destroyed about 1,500 buildings and damaged 10,000 more; 5,000 people were left homeless, and the island experienced a complete power outage following the typhoon. Damage on the island totaled $500 million (1997 USD, $645 million 2007 USD), which warranted the retirement of its name. Paka also caused light damage in the Northern Marianas Islands, and overall the storm caused no reported deaths.

[[Hurricane Pauline]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in Mexico, Deadly storms, Retired tropical cyclone names, 1997 Pacific hurricane season, 1990s in Mexico

Hurricane Pauline was a destructive hurricane of the 1997 Pacific hurricane season and one of the deadliest.

Pauline formed in the eastern Pacific on October 6. It strengthened rapidly, reaching category four on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale on the next day. After a brief period of weakening to a category three, it re-intensified back to a category four, moving roughly parallel to the Mexican coast.Pauline then made landfall, slamming into Mexico. Heavy rains and high winds caused damage as the storm skirted the coast.

There were 300-400 deaths, and heavy damage to Acalpulco. The name was retired and replaced by Patricia for the 2003 Pacific hurricane season.

[[Hurricane Linda (1997)]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in Mexico, 1997 in California

Hurricane Linda of 1997 was the strongest hurricane ever Recorded in the east Pacific, until Hurricane Patricia in 2015 with continued winds of 160 knots and gusting to 190 knots, and a central pressure of 902 mbar. It was part of an abnormally active season for both the Eastern and Western Pacific Basins.

Since it was far from land, it did not cause much damage.

[[Hurricane Ioke]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 Pacific hurricane season, East Pacific hurricanes, Retired tropical cyclone names

Hurricane Ioke (also Typhoon Ioke, international designation 0612, JTWC designation 01C also sometimes called Super Typhoon Ioke) is the strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Central Pacific. The first storm to form in the Central Pacific in the 2006 Pacific hurricane season, Ioke is a long-lived and extremely powerful storm that traversed the Pacific, reaching Category 5 status twice as a hurricane. As a typhoon, Ioke managed to achieve Category 5-equivalent one-minute sustained winds one more time before weakening.

Ioke did not affect any permanently populated areas in the Central Pacific or Western Pacific basins as a hurricane or a typhoon, but the storm passed over Johnston Atoll as a Category 2 hurricane and Wake Island as a Category 5 typhoon. Despite its strength, Ioke only caused moderate damage to Wake Island, and was not responsible for any fatalities.

[[Post-grunge]]

CATEGORIES: Music genres, Rock music

Post-grunge is a music genre that is strongly influenced by grunge music, a genre that started in Seattle, Washington, United States in the mid-1980s. However, it makes it into a more melodic and radio-friendly sound. Not by a coincidence, it has become very popular on the radio.

[[Ayutthaya (city)]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Thailand

Ayutthaya was the old capital of Thailand. Its full name is ‘Phra-Na-Khon-Sri-A-Yud-Dha-Ya’. Some people call it ‘Ayudya’. This city was the capital for 417 years. It is the longest Thai capital. Ayudhaya is at the center of Thailand. It was built at the meeting of the rivers Chao Phraya, Pa Sak and Lopburi. It is like an island city.  This province is adjacent Lopburi, Angthong and Saraburi at the north, Pathumthani and Nonthaburi at the south, Sarhaburi at the east and Suphanburi at the west of Thailand.

[[Nakhon Ratchasima Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Thailand

Nakhon Ratchasima Province (ᝈᝃᝓᝈᝍᝆᝑᝐᝒᝋ) or Khorat, is the biggest province and the second most populated province of Thailand. Nakhon Ratchasima means ‘big province’. It is in the eastern part of Thailand. It is about 260 km from Bangkok. It has forests, walking, education, rivers, sight seeing, foods, ancient cultures and tradition. There are local handicrafts for sale.

Nakhon Ratchasima covers an area of about 20494 square kilometers with 25 districts:

and six other small districts.

[[Garuda]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu mythology

The Garuda (Sanskrit: Garuḍa गरुड, eagle; Pāli Garuḷa) is a large mythical bird or bird-like creature that appears in both Hindu and Buddhist mythology.

[[Garuda (disambiguation)]]

Garuda may refer to:

[[Scorpion II]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs, Year of birth unknown, Year of death unknown

Scorpion, also King Scorpion or Scorpion II refers to the second of two kings so-named of Upper Egypt during the Protodynastic Period.

[[Ka (pharaoh)]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs

Ka, also Sekhem Ka, was a predynastic pharaoh of Upper Egypt.  He ruled over Abydos in the late 32nd or early 31st century BC and was buried at Umm el-Qa'ab. He most likely was the immediate successor to Iry-Hor and was succeeded by Narmer. He is the earliest known Egyptian king with a serekh, inscribed on a number of artefacts.

[[Iry-Hor]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs

Iry-Hor or Ro (as read by Petrie) was a Predynastic pharaoh of ancient Egypt, although some archaeologists are doubtful of his existence. He was most likely Ka's immediate predecessor. He ruled over Abydos and was buried in its local cemetery at Umm el-Qa'ab near Ka, Narmer and the First Dynasty kings.

If he existed, he would be the earliest documented person.

[[Wazner]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs

Wazner, also Wazenez or Wadjenedj, was a Predynastic Egyptian king who ruled in the Nile Delta. He is mentioned in the Palermo Stone inscriptions among a small number of kings of Lower Egypt. 

[[Hsekiu]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs

Hsekiu, also Seka, was a Predynastic ancient Egyptian king who ruled in the Nile Delta. He is mentioned in the Palermo Stone inscriptions among a small number of kings of Lower Egypt 

[[Tiu (pharaoh)]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs

Tiu, also Teyew etc., was a ancient Egyptian Pharaoh who ruled in the Nile Delta.  He ruled in the Predynastic period in ancient Egyptian history.  The Predynastic period began around 10,200 BC, and ended between 4,500 and 2,000 BC.

Tiu is mentioned in the Palermo Stone inscriptions, along with a small number of kings of Lower Egypt. Nothing else is known of his life or what he did while he was Pharaoh.

[[Scorpion I]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs

Scorpion I was a king of  Upper Egypt during the Predynastic Period, or the period before egypt was united. His name may refer to the scorpion goddess Serket.

He is believed to have ruled in Thinis one or two centuries before the rule of the better known King Scorpion II.  To him belongs the U-j tomb found in the royal cemetery of Abydos where Thinite kings were buried. 

[[Thesh]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs

Thesh, or Tjesh, Tesh etc., was a Predynastic ancient Egyptian king who ruled in the Nile Delta. He is mentioned in the Palermo Stone inscriptions among a small number of kings of Lower Egypt 

[[Ford Cortina]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, Ford automobiles

Ford Cortina was a car produced by Ford Motor Company from 1962 through 1982. From 1970 onwards, it was almost identical to Ford Taunus. It was a very popular and common car in the UK during its time. It was still selling well by the time the Sierra replaced it in 1982, but stocks of the Cortina continued for a while afterwards.

[[Closure (computer science)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science, a closure is a function that has an environment of its own. In this environment, there is at least one bound variable (a name that has a value, such as a number). The closure's environment keeps the bound variables in memory between uses of the closure.

Peter J. Landin gave this idea the name closure in 1964. The Scheme programming language made closures popular after 1975. Many programming languages made after that time have closures.

Anonymous functions (functions with no name) are sometimes wrongly called closures. Most languages that have anonymous functions also have closures. An anonymous function is also a closure if it has an environment of its own with at least one bound variable. An anonymous function with no environment of its own is not a closure. A named closure is not anonymous.

[[Agriculture in Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture by country, Economy of Pakistan

Pakistan's principal natural resources are arable land and water. About 25% of Pakistan's total land area is under cultivation and is watered by one of the largest irrigation systems in the world. Agriculture accounts for about 23% of GDP and employs about 44% of the labor force. Pakistan is one of the world's largest producers and suppliers of the following according to the 2005 Food and Agriculture Organization of The United Nations and FAOSTAT given here with ranking:

Pakistan ranks fifth in the Muslim world and twentieth worldwide in farm output. It is the world's fifth largest milk producer.

Agriculture is the back bone of Pakistan's economy. Agriculture has also been the main source of population growth in Pakistan.

[[Gwadar Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Pakistan, Bays

Gwadar Bay is near the maritime border of Pakistan and Iran. The name is from Persian, Khalij-e Gavader or 'Gulf of Gwadar' on Arabian Sea. It is an inlet of the Arabian Sea indenting the sandy Makran coast at the Iran–Pakistan border. It is about 20 miles (32 km) long and 10 miles (16 km) wide. The Dashtiari River flows into it from the northwest, and the Dasht River from the northeast. The town of Gwadar, Pakistan, is on the Arabian Sea coast about 30 miles (48 km) east of Gwadar Bay.

[[Huntly, Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Huntly ('Hunndaidh') is a town in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, formerly known as Milton of Strathbogie. It has a population 4,460 http://www.gro-scotland.gov.uk/files1/stats/04mid-year-estimates-settlements-table1.pdf https://web.archive.org/web/20120125220936/http://www.gro-scotland.gov.uk/files1/stats/04mid-year-estimates-settlements-table1.pdf 2004 and is the site of Huntly Castle. 

Huntly was the home town of the writer George MacDonald. Some of his novels, especially the Robert Falconer and Alec Forbes of Howglen play partly in Huntly, even if the name of the town is changed. So they give a rather good introduction to the life in Huntly in the 19th century. 

The local football team is Huntly F.C.. 

[[Clerkhill]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Clerkhill is an area of the town of Peterhead in north east Scotland. Surrounded by the areas of Meethill, Dales Park and Coplandhill, it is one of the smaller areas of the town.

[[Ellon, Aberdeenshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Ellon is a town in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, approximately 16 miles north of Aberdeen, lying on the River Ythan (pronounced eye-than) which has one of the few undeveloped river estuaries on the eastern coast of Scotland. It is in the ancient region of Formartine.

[[Fraserburgh]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Port cities and towns of Scotland

Fraserburgh (Scots: The Broch) (Scottish Gaelic: A' Bhruaich) is a town in Aberdeenshire, Scotland with a population recorded in the 2001 Census at 12,454. It lies at the northeast corner of Aberdeenshire, around 40 north of Aberdeen, and 17 north of Peterhead. It is the largest shellfish port in Europe and a major white fish port and busy commercial harbour. 

[[Rosehearty]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Rosehearty (Gaelic: Ros Abhartaich), Rizarty in the local dialect, is a village in Scotland. It is on the Moray Firth coast, four miles west of the town Fraserburgh, in the county of Aberdeenshire.

The burgh has about 1,300 people, with about 25 per cent of pensionable age. There are two shops and three hotels in the village.

[[Stonehaven]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Port cities and towns of Scotland

Stonehaven (Steenhive in the Doric dialect of Scots) and Cala na Creige in Gaelic is a town with around fourteen thousand inhabitants (9,577 in the 2001 census) on the northeast coast of Scotland. It is the county town of the historic county of Kincardineshire or The Mearns and the present day county of Aberdeenshire. It grew around an Iron Age fishing village, now the "Auld Toon" ("old town"), and expanded inland from the Seaside.  As late as the 16th century, old maps indicate the town was called Stonehyve or Stonehive.

[[Turriff]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Turriff is a town and parish in Aberdeenshire, Scotland. It is approximately 166 feet above sea level. It is known locally as Turra in the Doric dialect of Scots. The name appears to be Scottish Gaelic in origin, from "torr" meaning a mound or round hill, or "tur" meaning a tower.

[[Danko Jones]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian rock bands, Musical groups established in 1996, 1996 establishments in Canada

thumb|Danko Jones, guitars and vocals, live in Rouen, France 2008Danko Jones is a three-piece hard rock band from Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The band consists of Danko Jones (vocals/guitar), JC (also known as John Calabrese) (bass guitar), and Dan Cornelius (drums).

[[Abercrombie & Fitch]]

CATEGORIES: American clothing companies, 1892 establishments in New York (state)

right|thumb|An Abercrombie & Fitch storeAbercrombie & Fitch (ANF) (A&F) is an American clothing retailer sold as a lifestyle brand. The company has four brands: the Abercrombie & Fitch brand, abercrombie kids, Hollister Co., and Gilly Hicks. The company also had another brand called RUEHL No.925 which closed in January 2010. Stores operate in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Italy, France, Denmark, and Japan. It was created by David Abercrombie and Ezra H. Fitch. Abercrombie & Fitch was created in 1892. In this year, David Abercrombie opened the first store in New York City.

[[Abercrombie, Fife]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Fife

This article is about the village in Scotland. For other things with the name Abercrombie, please see Abercrombie.

Abercrombie (Gaelic: Obar Chrombaidh) is a small village in Fife, Scotland. It is around 1 mile north of the village of St Monans, and 10 miles south of the town of St Andrews. Abercrombie was the former name of the parish (church district) of St Monans, although both Abercrombie and St Monans had churches.

[[Jamestown, Fife]]

CATEGORIES: Fife, Hamlets in Scotland

Jamestown is a hamlet in Fife, Scotland. The A90 road and the Fife Circle Line are two modes of transport in Jamestown. The nearest ferry is from Rosyth, and goes to Zeebrugge. Edinburgh Airport is the nearest airport.

[[Bargeddie]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Lanarkshire

Bargeddie (Bàrr Geadaidh) is a small town in North Lanarkshire, Scotland, east of the junction of the M73 and M8 motorways, 2 west of Coatbridge town centre. A location in the same area is named in Timothy Pont's map of 1595, but it appears to be originally spelt as Balgedy.

[[Valentina Tereshkova]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Cosmonauts, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Valentina Vladimirovna Tereshkova (Валенти́на Влади́мировна Терешко́ва; born 6 March 1937), is a Soviet retired cosmonaut. 

She was the first woman to fly in space, aboard Vostok 6 (one of Vostok rocket) on 16 June 1963. She and four others were chosen out of more than 400 other women to fly in space.

[[John Dillinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1934 deaths, American criminals, Criminals from Chicago, Criminals from Indiana, People shot dead by law enforcement officers in the United States

John Herbert Dillinger (June 22, 1903 – July 22, 1934) was an American bank robber in the American Midwest.

[[SEAT Arosa]]

CATEGORIES: SEAT automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

SEAT Arosa was a car produced by SEAT from 1997 through 2004 with a facelift in 2001. It is a badge-engineered version of the Volkswagen Lupo and Škoda Lupo. Its successor appeared in 2012 as the Seat Mii.Skoda Lupo

[[SEAT Ibiza]]

CATEGORIES: SEAT automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

SEAT Ibiza is a car produced by SEAT since 1984. It is currently in its Fifth Generation. The first generation appeared in 1984 while the second generation was the first based on the Volkswagen Polo and arrived in 1993 while it got a facelift in both 1996 and 1999. It entered its third generation in 2002 while the fourth generation appeared in 2008. The current fifth generation arrived in 2017 which is now 5-door only and there's also a small crossover model based on it called the Arona. The restyled version of the fifth generation of the Ibiza is presented in April 2021.

[[Commedia dell'arte]]

CATEGORIES: Theatrical forms

Commedia dell'arte is a form of improvisational theatre that began in Italy in the 16th century. It continued to be popular during the 17th century and is still popular today.

The title is difficult to translate. A close translation is “comedy of craft”. This is shortened from commedia dell’arte all’improvviso, or “comedy of improvisation”.

The plays of Commedia dell'arte were often performed by a small group of actors who traveled around and performed in town squares. The actors would pass a hat around for people to put money in.

The earliest known company was in Padua in 1545. By the turn of the seventeenth century there were several troupes (group of actors) such as the Gelosi, Confidenti, and Fedeli. Some troupes were popular at foreign courts, especially in France, where images from the commedia became a favorite theme of well-known artists.

The actors often wore masks. The stories were often about people being cunning. Hunger, love and money were important in the stories. There were several characters who often appeared in lots of the stories. These are called "stock characters". Examples of stock characters from Commedia dell'arte are: Harlequin, Pantalone, Arlecchino, Colombina, Pulcinella, Pierrot, Scaramuccia.

Commedia dell'arte had a lot of influence on theatre plays in many countries. Punch and Judy shows, popular with children in Britain and other countries, are similar to Commedia dell'arte. They also have stock characters: Punch, Judy, the crocodile, the policeman etc.

[[Boddam, Aberdeenshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Boddam is a coastal village in Aberdeenshire, Scotland. It is 29 north of Aberdeen and 3 south of Peterhead. Sea cliffs rise to 200, south of the village: a coastal path leads along these to the Bullers of Buchan.

The adjoining settlement, on the Aberdeen to Peterhead road, was for many years known simply as Stirling: in 2004, it was renamed Stirling Village, to avoid confusion with the newly granted city of Stirling.

[[Blackburn, Aberdeenshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Blackburn is a rapidly growing commuter town in Aberdeenshire just northwest of Aberdeen, Scotland. It has an industrial estate.

[[Banff and Macduff]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Banff (Gaelic Banbh) and Macduff (Gaelic MacDhuibh) are neighbouring towns on Banff Bay, both of which are former burghs in Aberdeenshire, Scotland. Until 1975 Banff was the county town of Banffshire.

[[Banchory]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Banchory (Scottish Gaelic: Beannchar, 'blessed place') is a burgh or town in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, lying approximately 18 miles west of Aberdeen, near where the Feugh River meets the River Dee.

[[Laurencekirk]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Laurencekirk is a small town in the ancient county of Kincardineshire, modern county of Aberdeenshire, Scotland, just off the A90 Dundee to Aberdeen main road. It is the largest settlement in the Howe o' the Mearns area and houses the local secondary school; Mearns Academy, which was awarded the Charter Mark in 2003. The 2004 population is estimated at 3,596.

[[Inverurie]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Inverurie is a Royal Burgh in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, approximately 16 miles north west of Aberdeen on the A96 road and lies on the Northern Express Railway Route from Aberdeen to Inverness. The nearest airport is Aberdeen International Airport at Dyce.

[[Inverbervie]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Inverbervie (Ordnance Survey) is a small town on the north-east coast of Scotland, south of Stonehaven, in the Aberdeenshire council area.

The Inverbervie name derives from Inbhir Beirbhe, meaning Mouth of the River Bervie in Scottish Gaelic.

[[Insch]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Insch is a town in Garioch, Aberdeenshire, Scotland. It is about 28 from the city of Aberdeen. Auchleven and Premnay are villages associated with Insch.

[[Portsoy]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Portsoy (Gaelic: Port Saoidh) is a burgh in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, formerly in the county of Banffshire.

It is known for:

[[Peterhead]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Port cities and towns of Scotland

Peterhead is a town in Aberdeenshire, Scotland. It is Aberdeenshire's largest settlement, having a population of 17,947 at the 2001 Census. Peterhead sits at the easternmost point in mainland Scotland. Peterhead is often referred to as 'The Blue Toon' and people who were born there as Blue Tooners. More correctly they are called Bloomogganners, supposedly from the blue worsted stockings that the fishermen originally wore.

[[Maud, Aberdeenshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Maud (Gaelic: Am Mòd) is a small town in the Buchan area of the Scottish county of Aberdeenshire. Population 610 (2004). Located 13 miles west of Peterhead on the South Ugie Water, Maud rose to prosperity in the nineteenth century as a railway junction of the Formartine and Buchan Railway that ran through Maud to Fraserburgh and Peterhead, but has always been the meeting place of six roads. It has had a variety of names:

the 'New' falling out of use leading to its current name.

[[Kintore, Aberdeenshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Kintore (Gaelic: Ceann Tòrr) is a town and former royal burgh near Inverurie in Aberdeenshire, Scotland, now bypassed by the A96 road between Aberdeen and Inverness.  The name Kintore comes from the Gaelic, Ceann-an-torr. Ceann means the head, or the end, and Torr means a round hill. So the name signifies that the town was at the head or end of a round hill. This probably refers to Tuach Hill to the south of the town. 

[[Kemnay]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Kemnay (Gaelic: Ceann a' Mhuigh) is a village 16 miles west of Aberdeen in Scotland. It has a population of about 7040 (2007).

[[Portlethen]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Aberdeenshire

Portlethen is a town 7 mi south of Aberdeen, Scotland along the A90. It has expanded rapidly over the last 30 years. Portlethen has a population of about 7000, and more than 800 houses are, as of 2007, were being built on nearby farmland. To the east of Portlethen lie three fishing villages: Findon, Downies and Old Portlethen (now often referred to as Portlethen Village). Although Portlethen is a town in terms of population (and it has been granted official town status), it resembles a residential suburb without a clear 'town centre' or focal point.

[[Lisp]]

A lisp is a speech problem, linked to the misarticulation of 's'-sounds. This results in unclear speech. In many languages, these sounds are difficult to pronounce. There is a difference between lisping children who are in the process of learning to speak, and lisping adults. In many cases, lisping is easy to treat using specialized therapy. Some characters (especially in cartoons) lisp for a comic effect.

[[BonziBuddy]]

CATEGORIES: Malware, Free software

BonziBuddy (styled as BonziBUDDY) was a freeware program from BONZI Software. The software was available from 1999 to 2004. It is based on the Microsoft Agent technology. The program is no longer available because it contained a lot of adware, malware, and spyware. Most antivirus software picked up the software as Adware. The user would right click on the character and a menu would come up with different things that the character could do. It could tell jokes, facts, sing songs, download files and keep people on schedule with a calendar. Most things required the purchase of add-ons which would add extra jokes, facts and songs. There were also game add-ons and a speech recognition add-on which was called the 'Talking Add-on Module'. The program itself was advertised as an Internet Companion. The official website stayed open until 2008 and then it was no longer working. BonziBUDDY can still be downloaded by uploads from fans.

[[Kansas Koyotes]]

CATEGORIES: American football, People from Topeka, Kansas

The Kansas Koyotes are a professional indoor football team based out of Topeka, Kansas. The Koyotes compete in the American Professional Football League (APFL). They began play in 2003.

[[Playing for Pizza]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 books, 20th century American novels, English-language novels

Playing for Pizza is a short novel by John Grisham, released on September 25, 2007.

The novel is about an American football player who can no longer get work in the National Football League. His agent, as a last resort, signs a deal for him to play for the Parma Panthers, in Parma, Italy. The quarterback's move to a small city in a foreign land leads to a series of cultural misadventures.

[[The Grapes of Wrath]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 books, 20th century American novels, English-language novels, Pulitzer Prize winners

The Grapes of Wrath is a novel written by John Steinbeck. It was published in 1939. The book won both the Pulitzer Prize and the Nobel Prize in Literature. It is often read in American high school and college classes. The title of the novel is from Book of Revelation 14:19.

The book is about the Joads, a family of farmers.  It takes place during the Great Depression and the Dust Bowl. Because of drought and changes in the agriculture industry, the Joads are forced to move from their old home to California's Central Valley to find work and land.

The book talks about the problems they face on the way, as they drive through the Dust Bowl to get to California. It also talks about the poverty, discrimination, exploitation and other problems they face once they get to California.

[[Charlie and the Chocolate Factory]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 books, English-language novels, Children's books

Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (1964) is a children's book by British author Roald Dahl.  This story of the adventures of young Charlie Bucket inside the chocolate factory of eccentric candymaker Willy Wonka is often considered one of the most beloved children's stories of the 20th century. It has been made into a movie twice.

[[Be Kind Rewind]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, 2008 comedy movies, American comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies set in New Jersey, Movies directed by Michel Gondry

Be Kind Rewind is a 2008 American comedy movie starring Jack Black, Mos Def, Danny Glover and Mia Farrow. The movie's name is from a phrase commonly displayed on VHS rental tapes. It is set in Passaic, New Jersey.

[[University of Michigan College of Literature, Science, and the Arts]]

CATEGORIES: University of Michigan campus, 1841 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Michigan

The University of Michigan College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also called the College of LS&A (or simply LS&A), is the liberal arts and sciences unit of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Started in 1841 with seven students and two teachers, the college is now the largest part at U-M in terms of the number of students. It is located on the university's Central Campus, which is shared with the Ross School of Business, the School of Information, the UM Law School, and other units.

[[Oakley, Fife]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Fife

Oakley is a village in Fife, Scotland.

[[Upper Largo]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fife

Upper Largo or Kirkton of Largo is a small town in the East Neuk of Fife, Scotland.

[[Pat Benatar]]

CATEGORIES: American rock musicians, Singers from New York City, Grammy Award winners, Mezzo-sopranos, 1953 births, Living people

Pat Benatar (born Patricia Mae Andrzejewski on 10 January 1953) is a four-time Grammy Award-winning American rock singer with seven platinum and three gold albums to her credit, as well as 19 Top 40 singles. Pat Benatar was eligible for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004. 

Benatar is also known for her mezzo-soprano vocal range.

[[Eurythmics]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 establishments in England, Musical groups established in 1980, Musical groups disestablished in 1990, 1990 disestablishments in Europe, 20th century disestablishments in England, Musical groups established in 1999, 1999 establishments in England, Musical groups disestablished in 2005, 2005 disestablishments in England, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, British rock bands, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups from London, New wave bands

Eurythmics were a pop music band from England. Its two members were Annie Lennox and Dave Stewart. Their most famous song is "Sweet Dreams". Some of their other songs are "Here Comes The Rain Again", "Love Is a Stranger" and "Missionary Man".

The Eurythmics formed in London in 1980 and broke up in 1990. They recorded eight albums during that time. Eurythmics got back together in 1999 and made a ninth album. Then they released a greatest hits album and split again in 2005.

[[Abingdon]]

Abingdon may mean:

In Australia :

In England:

In Canada:

In the United States:

[[Abingdon, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Virginia, County seats in Virginia, 1776 establishments in the United States, 18th-century establishments in Virginia

Abingdon is a town in Washington County, Virginia, 133 miles (214 km) southwest of Roanoke.

[[Clinton]]

Clinton can be any of the following:

[[Cyclotron]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics

A cyclotron is a type of particle accelerator invented by Ernest Lawrence from the University of California, Berkeley in 1930. It accelerates charged particles by whirling them in a circle. The first cyclotrons were the size of a hand. Some modern circular accelerators use a circle as wide as a city.

Cyclotrons use perpendicular magnetic field to bend electrons and particles through into a semicircular path by an applied electric field. The applied electric field accelerates electrons between the "D" electrodes(also called "dees") of the magnetic field region.

The accelerating electric field reverses just at the time the electrons finish their half circle, so that it accelerates them across the gap. With a higher speed, they move in a larger semicircle. After repeating this process several times, they come out the exit port at a high speed.

[[Johanna Spyri]]

CATEGORIES: 1827 births, 1901 deaths, Swiss writers

Johanna Spyri (12 June 1827 – 7 July 1901) wrote stories for children in the German language. Her most famous book was Heidi. 

[[Volvo S60]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Volvo automobiles

Volvo S60 is a car produced by Volvo from 2000 to the present day. It entered its second generation in 2010.

[[Volkswagen Lupo]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, Volkswagen automobiles

Volkswagen Lupo was a car made by Volkswagen from 1998 through 2005. The SEAT Arosa was a badge-engineered version of the Lupo.

[[Guitar World]]

CATEGORIES: Music magazines

Guitar World is a music magazine. A new issue is made every month. Articles in the magazine are usually about guitar players. The magazine has interviews, reviews, and information on how to play songs on guitar or bass guitar. The magazine started in July 1980. Johnny Winter was on the first front cover.

[[Volkswagen Jetta]]

CATEGORIES: Volkswagen automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Volkswagen Jetta is a car produced by Volkswagen since 1979. It is currently in its sixth Generation. The Third Generation Jetta was called the Vento, the Fourth one Bora.

[[June Tabor]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, English singers, British folk musicians

June Tabor (born 31 December 1947) is an English folk singer.

[[Banjo Paterson]]

CATEGORIES: 1864 births, 1941 deaths, Australian poets, Writers from New South Wales, Australian journalists

Andrew Barton "Banjo" Paterson (1864 – 1941) was a famous Australian bush poet, journalist and author. He wrote many ballads and poems about Australian life. He wrote about life in the country and outback areas of Australia. Much of his work was about the area around Binalong, New South Wales where he spent much of his childhood. Paterson's famous poems include "Waltzing Matilda", "The Man from Snowy River" and "Clancy of the Overflow". Three movies have been made about The Man from Snowy River: The Man from Snowy River (1982), Return to Snowy River (1988), and The Man from Snowy River: Arena Spectacular (2003).

Banjo Paterson has inspired many Australians and continues to do so.

[[Water hyacinth]]

CATEGORIES: Monocots

Water hyacinths are flowering plants in the genus Eichhornia. There are seven species. It belongs to the family Pontederiaceae of the order Commelinales. The water hyacinth is one of the fastest growing water plants. It is native to South America. It was introduced to the USA in 1884. 

[[Hyoscyamus niger]]

CATEGORIES: Nightshades, Plants of Asia, Plants of Pakistan, Solanaceae

Henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), also known as stinking nightshade, is a plant of the family Solanaceae that originated in Eurasia, but it is now found everywhere. It is poisonous and should not be eaten.

[[Viola odorata]]

CATEGORIES: Violets

Viola odorata is a species of violets (genus Viola). It is native to Europe and Asia. The plant has also been introduced to North America and Australia. It is commonly known as Sweet Violet, English Violet, Common Violet, or Garden Violet. The herb is known as Banafsa, Banafsha or Banaksa in India. In India, it is commonly used as remedy to cure sore throat and tonsilitis.

[[Whitwell, Isle of Wight]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight

Whitwell is a small village with a population of about 500 on the Isle of Wight, an island off the south coast of England. It is close to the town of Ventnor and the village of Niton. The village includes a church, public house and garage. Before to 2004 there was also a post office and village shop, but this has now closed. Public transport is provided by Southern Vectis, the local bus company on route 6.

[[Clifton Beach, Karachi]]

CATEGORIES: Beaches of Pakistan, Karachi

Clifton Beach, on the Arabian Sea, is a beach in Clifton, Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan, one of the neighborhoods of Saddar Town, Karachi. The beach has attractions for families and tourists, including beachside horse and camel rides, amusement parks, restaurants, and swimming in the Arabian Sea.

The whole beach area of Clifton and Seaview is considered safe and peacful even in times of political turmoil.

A gated residential area called Seaview Apartments is close to a section of Clifton beach known as Seaview beach or simply Seaview. Farther ahead is Darakhshan Villas which has residential townhouses.

In this very area new CINEPLEX cinema houses were constructed for the entertainment starved people of Karachi, particularly for the people who live in DHA and Clifton. This has happened after around three decades of cinema decline in Pakistan. Hollywood films are released here along with or soon after the international releases of these films. These cinemas are more expensive and are family cinemas meaning that no males or group of males are allowed to watch movies here without being accompanied by families, females or children.

Defence Housing Authority is filling the beach area with sand to obtain more ground and this will push the beach farther, which will change the shape and features of this beach.

Other beaches close to the city include Sandspit, Hawke's Bay, and Paradise Point - a sandstone rock promontory with a natural arch, but Clifton Beach is the most popular picnic destination in Karachi.

[[Achillea millefolium]]

CATEGORIES: Asteraceae, Herbs

Achillea millefolium or Yarrow is a flowering plant in the family Asteraceae, native to the Northern Hemisphere. 

Other common names for this species include gordaldo, nosebleed plant, old man's pepper, devil's nettle, sanguinary, milfoil, soldier's woundwort, thousand-leaf, and thousand-seal.

The plant commonly flowers from May through June.  It is often found in the mildly disturbed soil of grasslands and open forests. The plant has a strong, sweet scent, similar to chrysanthemums.

It has been used as a medicinal plant.

[[Cape Monze]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Pakistan

Cape Monze (aka Cape Mount) is a beach on the Arabian Sea. It is near the Hub River and Gadani Beach in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Philip Brady]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1939 births, People from Melbourne, Australian radio personalities, Australian television presenters

Philip Brady (born 16 June 1939) is an Australian media personality.

He was born in Melbourne, Brady was involved in the early days of television. He left school at the age of 18 and started working as a booth announcer at Channel Nine in 1958.

He appeared with Graham Kennedy on In Melbourne Tonight. He stayed at Channel 9 until 1971 when he worked for a travel agent in Beaumaris. In the 1970s, Brady hosted several television shows including Moneymakers, Casino Ten, Password, Get the Message, and Everybody’s Talking.  In 1986, he moved to the Gold Coast and hosted a radio show on Easy Listening 97 Tweed Heads.  He came back to Melbourne in 1990 and began a long-lasting partnership with Bruce Mansfield hosting Remember When and Nightline on 3AW.

[[St Helens, Isle of Wight]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight

St. Helens is a small village and civil parish on the eastern side of the Isle of Wight.

[[Hamstead, Isle of Wight]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight

Hamstead is a village on the Isle of Wight. It is located about three miles east of Yarmouth, in the northwest of the island.

[[Inner Mongolia]]

CATEGORIES: Autonomous regions of China

Inner Mongolia (Mongolian: ,  Öbür mongɣul; 内蒙古; occasionally romanized to Nei Mongol) is the Mongol autonomous region of the People's Republic of China and lies in the north of the country.

Inner Mongolia borders, from east to west, the provinces of Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning, Hebei, Shanxi, Shaanxi, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, and Gansu, while to the north it borders Mongolia and Russia. It is the third-largest subdivision of China spanning almost 300 million acres or 12% of China's land area. It has a population of about 24 million. The capital is Hohhot.

The majority of the population in the region are Han Chinese, with a large Mongol minority. The official languages are Standard Mandarin and Mongolian, the latter written in the classical alphabet. 

[[Yafford]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight, Hamlets in England

Yafford is a hamlet on the Isle of Wight. It is nine kilometres from Newport in the southwest of the island.

[[Yaverland]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight

Yaverland is a village on the Isle of Wight, just north of Sandown. It has about 200 houses, no shops and one post box. About 1/3 of a mile away from the village, behind Culver Down, is the Yaverland Manor and Church.

[[Newport, Isle of Wight]]

CATEGORIES: Towns on the Isle of Wight

Newport is the county town of the Isle of Wight, an island off the south coast of England.  Newport has a population of 23,957 according to the 2001 census.  The town is slightly to the north of the centre of the island, at the head of the navigable section of the River Medina, which flows northward to the Solent, and on which the town has a quay.

[[Gatcombe]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight

Gatcombe is a village and civil parish on the Isle of Wight. It is four kilometres from Newport in the centre of the island. St. Olave's Church is a Gatcombe church dedicated in 1292, serving as chapel to Gatcombe Manor. The Gatcombe parish was established in 1560.

A carved wooden effigy of Edward Estur, a local knight who fought in the Crusades, is in the church. 

[[Godshill]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight

Godshill is a village and civil parish on the Isle of Wight. About 2,800 people lived there in 1998. It is located between Newport and Ventnor in the southeast of the island. There are pubs called the "Griffin"- featuring a large maze, and "The Taverners".

[[Easton, Isle of Wight]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight

Easton is a village on the Isle of Wight. It is close to Totland in the west of the island.

[[Arreton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight

Arreton is a village and civil parish in the central eastern part of the Isle of Wight, England. It is about 3 miles south east of Newport.

[[Alverstone]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight

Alverstone is a village 3 kilometres from the east coast of the Isle of Wight, near Sandown. When Richard Webster became Chief Justice of England in 1900, he chose the title Lord Alverstone because it was the title he was permitted to choose which was "closest" to Sandown, one of his favorite locales.

[[Adgestone]]

CATEGORIES: Villages on the Isle of Wight

Adgestone is a small hamlet on the Isle of Wight. It is close to Brading in the east of the island.

[[Brading]]

CATEGORIES: Towns on the Isle of Wight

The ancient 'Kynges Towne' of Brading is the main town of the civil parish of the same name, which used to cover about a tenth of the Isle of Wight but now includes the town itself and Adgestone, Morton, Nunwell and other outlying areas between Ryde, St Helen's, Bembridge, Sandown and Arreton.

[[Mr. T]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Actors from Chicago, African American actors, African American television personalities, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Television personalities from Chicago, Living people, WWE Hall of Fame

Mr. T, whose real name is Laurence Tureaud (born May 21, 1952) is an American actor. He is famous for playing Sgt. Bosco "B. A." Baracus in The A-Team and James "Clubber" Lang in Rocky III. Mr. T has a popular catch phrase, "I Pity the Fool", which lead to the name of a reality television series he appeared on. He also had a comic series called Mr T and the T-force. Mr. T is known for having a mohawk hairstyle and wearing a lot of gold jewelry.

[[Céline Dion]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Canadian pop singers, Celine Dion, Child singers, Musicians from Quebec, Eurovision Song Contest winners

Céline Marie Claudette Dion, CC ChLD OQ (selin djɔ̃; born March 30, 1968) is a Canadian singer.

[[Cowes]]

CATEGORIES: Towns on the Isle of Wight

Cowes is an English seaport town on the Isle of Wight, an island south of Southampton. Cowes is on the west bank of the estuary of the River Medina facing the smaller town of East Cowes on the east Bank.  The western town is sometimes referred to as West Cowes where distinction is needed - such as at the two differing ferry landings.

[[Adamsville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Adamsville is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city was 4,965. According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 4,845.

[[Alabaster, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Alabaster is a city and southern suburb of Birmingham in Shelby County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 22,619. According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 27,517.

[[Alexander City, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, 1872 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Alabama

Alexander City is a city in Tallapoosa County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 15,008. According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 14,957.

[[Aliceville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Aliceville is a city in Pickens County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,567. According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 2,465.

[[Ashville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Ashville is a city in St. Clair County, Alabama, United States. The population was 2,260 at the 2000 census, at which time it was a town. The city is the county seat of St. Clair County6 along with Pell City. According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 2,429. https://www.census.gov/popest/cities/files/SUB-EST2005-all.csv

[[Anniston, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama, 1872 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Alabama

Anniston is a city in, and county seat of, Calhoun County in the state of Alabama, United States. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 24,276. According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 23,741.

[[Andalusia, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Andalusia is a city in Covington County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 8,794. The 2007 U.S. Census estimated the city had a population of 8,705.  It is the home of the World Championship Domino Tournament.

[[Digitalis]]

CATEGORIES: Plantaginaceae

Digitalis is a genus of about 20 species of herbaceous perennials shrubs, and biennals that are commonly called foxgloves. The genus is native to Europe, western and central Asia, and northwestern Africa.

The term digitalis is also used for preparations containing cardiac glycosides, particularly digoxin, extracted from plants of this genus.

[[Melbourne Central Shopping Center]]

CATEGORIES: Malls

Melbourne Central Shopping Center is a shopping center (or mall) in Melbourne, Australia. It contains hundreds of different stores.

[[Martin Carthy]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, British folk musicians, English singers

Martin Carthy MBE, is an English folk singer and guitarist. He was one of the first performers in the renewed interest in British folk music in the 1960s. He has inspired other musicians such as Bob Dylan, Paul Simon and Richard Thompson. He is seen as one of the most important people in English folk music.

[[Atmore, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Atmore is a city in Escambia County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 7,676. According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 7,530. The city was named for Mr. C.P. Atmore.

[[Attalla, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Attalla is a city in Etowah County, Alabama, United States. It is part of the Gadsden Metropolitan Statistical Area. According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 6,474.

[[York, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

York is a city in Sumter County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,854.

[[New Hope, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, 1832 establishments in Alabama

New Hope is a small town in Madison County, Alabama, United States, and is included in the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area. As of the 2000 census, the population is 2,539. It was incorporated in 1832 under the name of Vienna. The original town was completely burned by the Union Army on December 15, 1864, during the American Civil War.

[[Uniontown, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Uniontown is a city in Perry County, Alabama in the United States of America.  As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 1,636.

[[Union Springs, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Union Springs is a city in and the county seat of Bullock County, Alabama, United States.6  The population was 3,670 at the 2000 census.

[[Vestavia Hills, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Vestavia Hills is a city in Jefferson and Shelby Counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. It is a suburb of the city of Birmingham.

[[Vernon, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Vernon is a city in Lamar County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,143.  The city is the county seat of Lamar County.

[[Valley, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Valley is a city in Chambers County, Alabama, United States. According to 2019 census, there are 9,141 people living there. 

[[Valley Grande, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, 2003 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Alabama

Valley Grande is a city in Dallas County, Alabama, United States, just north of Selma.  Incorporated in early 2003, Valley Grande is governed by a mayor-council form of government.

[[Northport, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Northport is a city in Tuscaloosa County, Alabama, United States. According to 2005 Census Bureau estimates the population is 21,216. It is part of the Tuscaloosa, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Meadows Mall]]

CATEGORIES: Malls, Las Vegas, Nevada

The Meadows Mall is a mall in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA. Its address is 4300 Meadows Lane. With 140 stores inside, the mall building is two stories high. Within the mall is a food court, and four department stores: Dillard's, Sears, JCPenney, and Macy's. The mall is slightly larger than Boulevard Mall, which contains 149 stores.

[[Jacksonville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Jacksonville is a city in Calhoun County, Alabama, United States. As of the 2010 census, the population of the city is 12,548. It is included in the Anniston-Oxford Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Jackson, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Jackson is a city in Clarke County, Alabama, United States.  The population was 5,419 at the 2000 census.

[[Irondale, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Irondale is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States and a suburb of Birmingham. At the 2000 census the population was 9,813. The book (later a movie) Fried Green Tomatoes, by Irondale native Fannie Flagg, is loosely based around the town and the landmark Irondale Cafe, known as The WhistleStop Cafe in the book & Film.

[[Winfield, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Winfield is a city in Fayette and Marion counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. The population was 4,717 at the 2010 census, the second largest city in Marion County.

[[Wetumpka, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Wetumpka is a city in Elmore County, Alabama, United States. According to 2000 US census, there are 5,726 people living there. The city is the county seat of Elmore County. It is the third fastest growing county in the state. Together with Montgomery, Prattville, Millbrook, and Tallassee the city is considered part of the Montgomery Metropolitan Area, or River Region. There are approximately 346,578 people living in the region. 

[[Weaver, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Weaver is a city in Calhoun County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,619. It is included in the Anniston-Oxford, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Warrior, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Warrior is a city in Jefferson and Blount County in the U.S. state of Alabama. At the 2000 census the population was 3,169.

[[Jacksonville]]

Jacksonville may mean:

Colleges & universities:

Football:

Other:

[[Why I Am Not a Christian]]

CATEGORIES: Essays

Why I Am Not a Christian is an essay by the British philosopher Bertrand Russell. It describes the reasons why Russell does not believe in God and doubts religion.

[[Moapa Valley]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Nevada, Valleys of the United States

Moapa Valley is a 40-mile valley and region in the American State of Nevada. Within the valley are four towns: Overton, Logandale, Moapa, and Glendale, Nevada. Logandale and Overton are so close to each other that it is hard to tell them apart without a sign. Moapa Valley was formed by the Muddy River, which flows through it.

Moapa Valley has many archaeological sites, mostly created by the Anasazi Native Americans, which were largely damaged by construction. 

Moapa Valley is also the location of the Lost City Museum, which is a museum displaying artifacts and reconstructed adobe pueblos built on the original sites of the pueblos.

[[Passenger pigeon]]

CATEGORIES: Columbiformes

The passenger pigeon (Ectopistes migratorius) or wild pigeon was a species of pigeon that was once the most common bird in North America.

[[Sergei Eisenstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1948 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Russia, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Russian movie directors, People from Riga, Soviet people, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein (Сергей Михайлович Эйзенштейн Sergej Mihajlovič Ejzenštejn; January 23, 1898 – February 11, 1948) was a Soviet Russian movie director and movie theorist.  He was known mostly for his silent movies Strike, The Battleship Potemkin and October.  He was also known for his historical epics Alexander Nevsky and Ivan the Terrible. His work had a major impact on early movie directors because of his creative use of and writings about montage.

[[Yass, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Yass is a town in the Southern Tablelands of New South Wales, Australia. It is in the Yass Valley Shire. The name probably comes from an Aboriginal word, "Yarrh" (or "Yharr"), which means 'running water'.

Yass is about 280 km southwest of Sydney and is 56 km north of Canberra. It is on the Hume Highway which is the main road between Melbourne and Sydney. The new Hume Freeway goes around the town. The Yass River flows past the town. It later flows into the Murrumbidgee River.

Yass has an impressive and historic main street. It includes many 19th century hotels with large verandahs. It is popular with tourists, some from Canberra and others taking a break from the Hume Highway.

The Pride of Erin Festival and Yass Show are held in March. The Yass Arts-and-Crafts Festival is held in November.

[[Community of Christ]]

CATEGORIES: Mormonism, 1860 establishments in the United States, Christian religious orders, Organizations based in the United States

The Community of Christ is a Mormon movement. From 1872 to 2001, it was known as Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (RLDS). It was founded in the 1860s. It did not recognise Brigham Young as a Prophet, but instead followed Joseph Smith III, the son of the founder of Mormonism, Joseph Smith. Unlike the followers of Young who went to Utah they remained were they were, in the Midwestern United States, mainly in Missouri. A number of court cases established this Church as the follower of law of the church established by Smith. for this reason it has the most manuscripts and the oldest Temple. 

In general, their beliefs are closer to mainline Protestant Christianity. Unlike other Latter-day Saints movements, they have a classic view of the Trinity. Their baptism is therefore recognised as a valid Christian one.

[[Didelphis]]

CATEGORIES: Marsupials

The six species in the genus Didelphis, commonly known as large American opossums, are members of the Didelphimorphia order.

Species:

[[Pakistani]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani people

The word Pakistani or Pakistanis (پاکِستانی)  means from or about the country of the modern Islamic Republic of Pakistan partly consisting of the Indus Valley. It refers to a person or people from Pakistan.

Every citizen of Pakistan is called a Pakistani (singular) or Pakistanis (plural).

[[Imran Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Current national leaders, Pakistani cricketers, Pakistani politicians, People from Lahore, Prime Ministers of Pakistan

Imran Ahmad Khan Niazi (عمران احمد خان نیازی) (born 5 October 1952) is a Pakistani politician. He is the 22nd and current Prime Minister of Pakistan. Before entering politics Khan was a cricketer and played for international cricket for two decades in the late 20th century.

Khan became a politician in the mid-1990s. Currently, besides running his own political party, Khan is also a charity worker and cricket commentator. He made his political party Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) in 1996. He made a cancer hospital, Shaukat Khanum, in memory of his mother who also died of cancer.

On July 26, 2018, Khan was elected Prime Minister despite many people accusing Khan's campaign of rigging the election. Khan took oath as Prime Minister of Pakistan on 18 August 2018.

[[Thule]]

CATEGORIES: Arctic, Iceland

Thule is the name of the island which Pytheas, the ancient Greek explorer, discovered in the fourth century B.C. Pytheas reported that this island was located in the north of Britain. So it is believed that Thule is probably Iceland or the Shetland Islands or the Faroe Islands or the coasts of Norway. Today, a village in the north of Greenland is called  Thule which is also called Qaanaaq.

[[2008 Mumbai attacks]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 crimes, 2008 in India, 2000s explosions, Attacks on buildings and structures in Asia, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 2000s, Attacks on hotels, Attacks on restaurants, Explosions in Asia, Islamic terrorist incidents in Asia, Islamic terrorist incidents in the 2000s, Mass murder in Asia, Mass murder in the 2000s, Mass shootings in the 2000s, Mumbai, Murder in India, November 2008 events

The 2008 Mumbai attacks were carried out at seven places across Mumbai, India, on 26 November 2008. 175 people were killed and 291 were injured in these attacks.

[[Deccan Mujahideen]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic terrorism, Religion in India

The Deccan Mujahiddeen is believed to be a terrorist group. They do attacks inside India. They came to the attention of the public after they said they were responsible for the attacks on Mumbai on 26 November 2008. It is possible that the organization could be related to the Indian Mujahideen.

[[Case (grammar)]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics, Grammar

In grammar, case changes what a noun, adjective or pronoun does in a sentence. It is a set of forms which depend on the syntax (how the words go together). Case is an example of inflection, which is often an affix, a part of a word that is added to other words, that signals a grammatical relationship. Long ago, Old English used several cases, but Modern English uses only two cases for nouns.p197

[[Axon]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the nervous system

The axon is the part of a neuron that sends the signal to the synapse. Axons are long, thin and tendril-like.

Axons are much like a highly developed dendrite.

The axon carries an electrical signal from the cell body (soma) to the synapse. There the signal passes to other neurons or to muscle fibers. An axon can be over a meter long in humans. Or even longer in longer animals like elephants and whales.

The electrical signal of an axon is made by ions that flow in and out of the cell producing an electric impulse called an action potential. The speed at which the signal travels depends on how thick the axon is, and how much insulation it has. Insulation is provided by specialized cells called myelin that wrap around the axon. This insulation is called the myelin sheath. 

The axon was discovered by Otto Deiters.

[[Haast's eagle]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes, Megafauna

Haast's eagle (Harpagornis moorei) was the largest known eagle. It is the only eagle in the world known to have been the top predator in its ecosystem. It lived on the South Island of New Zealand, where there were no other large predators.

Fossil evidence shows that the areas where the Haast’s eagle lived were covered in forest and shrublands, as well as in the grasslands on river floodplains. 

The arrival of people in New Zealand had unfortunate consequences for the eagle. By 1400 AD, most of the forest habitat it used had been cleared by fire, and most of the large flightless moas that it ate had been hunted to extinction.

[[Benjamin W. Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 1977 deaths, American physicists, Korean people

Benjamin Whiso Lee (Korean: 이휘소, Lee Whi-so) (January 1, 1935 – June 16, 1977) or Ben Lee, was a Korean-American theoretical physicist. His work in theorical particle physics was very important to the development of the standard model in the late 20th century. His work mainly affected the renormalization and the charm quark.

[[Alessandro Volta]]

CATEGORIES: 1745 births, 1827 deaths, Italian physicists, People from Como

[[Friedrich August Kekulé von Stradonitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1829 births, 1896 deaths, German chemists, People from Darmstadt

Friedrich August Kekule von Stradonitz (also August Kekulé) (7 September 1829 – 13 July 1896) was a German organic chemist. Kekulé was born in Darmstadt, the son of a civil servant. After graduating from secondary school, in 1847 he entered the University of Giessen, with the intention of studying architecture. After hearing the lectures of Justus von Liebig he decided to study chemistry. Following his education in Giessen, he took further doctorate fellowships in Paris (1851-52), in Chur, Switzerland (1852-53), and in London (1853-55), where he was decisively influenced by Alexander Williamson. 

In 1858, he was hired as a full professor at the University of Ghent. In 1867, he was asked to work at the University of Bonn. There he studied carbon organic compounds and benzene. He suggested a benzene ring structure. 

Kekulé's most famous work was on the structure of benzene. In 1865 Kekulé published a paper in French suggesting that the structure contained a six-membered ring of carbon atoms with alternating single and double bonds. The next year he published a much longer paper in German on the same subject. The empirical formula for benzene had been long known, but its highly unsaturated structure was challenging to determine. Archibald Scott Couper in 1858 and Joseph Loschmidt in 1861 suggested possible structures that contained multiple double bonds or multiple rings, but the study of aromatic compounds was in its earliest years, and too little evidence was then available to help chemists decide on any particular structure.

[[Ultra high frequency]]

CATEGORIES: Wave physics

Ultra High Frequency (UHF) is a electromagnetic radiation. Especially its frequency is between 300 MHz and 3 GHz (3,000 MHz). Because of short wavelength, UHF has strong directivity and it has small area. UHF is commonly used for television signals. It is strong enough to be protected from other signal, but because of its strong directivity, receiving error by an obstacle occurs more. Hence it needs sensitive sensors.thumb|800px|Electromagnetic Spectrum

[[LC circuit]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic circuits

An LC circuit is an electronic circuit made up of an inductor and a capacitor.

The angular frequency ω has units of radians per second.

LC circuits are used for creating signals at a particular frequency, or picking out a signal at a particular frequency from a more complex signal. An ideal LC circuit does not have resistance.

At LC circuit energy saves in the capacitor's electric field.

U is energy and q is electric charge.

At LC circuit energy also save in the inductor's magnetic field.

U is energy and i is electric current that flows in inductor.

Let's analyze an LC circuit's vibration. Vibrating LC circuit's total energy is U.

Because circuit's  resistance is 0, there is no energy that transmits to heat energy, and U is maintained regularity.

So LC circuit's vibration is shown like that

First consider the Electrical impedance of the series LC circuit. The total impedance is given by the sum of the inductive and capacitive impedances

Resultingly the series connected circuit, when connected to a circuit in series, will act as a band-pass filter having zero impedance at the resonant frequency of the LC circuits.

The same analysis may be applied to the parallel LC circuit. The total impedance is then given by

which simplifies to

Resultingly the parallel connected circuit will act as band-stop filter having infinite impedance at the resonant frequency of the LC circuit.

[[Application-specific integrated circuit]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components, Electronic circuits

ASIC or Application-specific integrated circuit is a kind of integrated circuit. It is built for a particular use instead of for general-purpose use. Digital circuits are a common form of ASIC, but analog ASICs were manufactured beginning in the latter half of the 1990s.

ASIC has advantages compared to Programmable Logic Device or Standard Logic IC. 

There are also disadvantages of ASIC. 

[[Photoelectric effect]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Energy

The photoelectric effect is a phenomenon in physics. The effect is based on the idea that electromagnetic radiation is made of a series of particles called photons. When a photon hits an electron on a metal surface, the electron can be emitted. The emitted electrons are called photoelectrons. The effect is also called the Hertz Effect, because it was discovered by Heinrich Rudolf Hertz, but this name is not used often.

The photoelectric effect has helped physicists understand the quantum nature of light and electrons. The concept of wave–particle duality was developed because of the photoelectric effect. Albert Einstein proposed the Laws of Photoelectric Effect and won the Nobel Prize For Physics 1921.

[[Image processing]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In electrical engineering and computer science, Image processing is any form of processing for which the input is an image or a series of images or videos, such as photographs or frames of video. The output of image processing can be either an image or a set of characteristics or parameters related to the image. It also means "Analyzing and manipulating images with a computer". 

Image processing is performed in three steps:

First, import images with an optical devices like a scanner or a camera, or make them by computer-generated imagery.

Second, manipulate or analyze the images in some way. This step can include image improvement and data summary, or the images are analyzed to find rules that aren't seen by the human eyes. For example, meteorologists use this processing to analyze satellite photographs.

Last, output the result of image processing. The result might be the image changed by some way or it might be a report based on analysis or result of the images.

In the 21st century image processing is usually "digital", but optical and analog image methods are still used.

[[Ogg]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

Ogg is a free, open standard format for music, video and other multimedia. It is run by the Xiph.Org Foundation. The Ogg format is unrestricted by software patents and is designed to provide for efficient Internet streaming and for editing of high quality digital multimedia.

The project was based on the popular AVI and Ogg formats, which at the time only supported audio. Some time ago, the OGG Vorbis format was created to change the mp3 format. To store the vorbis audio stream, the OGG Bitstream standard was developed, which was later used to store video.

Recently a big library on the internet, the Internet Archive, announced that they are going to convert many videos and other multimedia to the Ogg format as well as other formats like the proprietary Adobe Flash flv format.

[[Georgetown, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kentucky, County seats in Kentucky, Scott County, Kentucky

Georgetown is a city and the county seat of Scott County, Kentucky, United States. The population was 18,000 at the 2000 census. There is a Toyota automobile plant there.

[[Encarta]]

CATEGORIES: Encyclopedias

Encarta was a digital multimedia encyclopedia by Microsoft. There was a more complete version called Encarta Premium made in 2008. It had more than 62,000 articles  and many photographs and illustrations. There was also music clips, videos, maps and timelines with some activity games. It also included an atlas,  and homework tools. It was available on the internet if you pay a yearly fee, or to buy on DVD-ROM, or CD-ROMs. Many articles could also be read online free of charge, a service which is paid for by advertisements.

Microsoft made similar encyclopedias under the Encarta trademark in several different European languages and in Japanese.

[[Islamabad (disambiguation)]]

Islamabad can refer to:

[[White supremacy]]

CATEGORIES: Discrimination

White supremacy is the belief that white people are better than all other races. The words "white supremacy" are sometimes used to describe a political idea that shows the social and political dominance of whites.

White supremacy is a form of racism. However it is not to be confused with different political and moral differences that people of any race may hold. White supremacists also want racial separation, which means people of different races living apart. White supremacy has often resulted in anti-black racism and antisemitism (Anti-Jewish hate).

The different groups who are in favour of white supremacy do not agree on who is white,  or on which group is their worst enemy. White supremacists often consider Jews to be the biggest threat to their cause, because they think Jews are able to mix much more easily than other ethnic groups.

[[BMW 3 Series]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, BMW, Rear wheel drive vehicles

BMW 3 Series is a car produced by BMW since 1975. It is currently in its seventh generation. The 3 Series has an M version in the form of the M3.

The 3 Series has come in multiple body styles and engine types. The 3 Series has been sold as saloons, coupés, estates, and convertibles. The 3 Series is one of the most commonly-sold vehicles in the world.

[[Vulcan (hypothetical planet)]]

CATEGORIES: Solar System planets, Terrestrial planets

Vulcan was a theoretical planet. In the 19th century, the planet was thought to orbit close to the sun. Its gravitational pull would explain changes seen between the perihelion advance of Mercury from that predicted by Classical Mechanics. The theory that Vulcan exists come from the earlier prediction that an outer planet (now Neptune) was causing similar changes in the orbit of Uranus from the orbit predicted by classical theory.

None of the searches for Vulcan found a planet. This caused some people to not agree with Newtonian theory. It led to the development of Special Relativity and General Relativity. Albert Einstein's modified theory of gravity showed why the orbit of Mercury changes without the existence of Vulcan. This disproved the theories of Vulcan.

[[Flag of Greece]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Greece

The flag of Greece is rectangular with nine equal stripes of blue (5) and white (4) from left to right. In the top left corner is a blue square with a white cross. This flag has been used since 1822, when the young Greek state was fighting for its independence from the Ottoman Empire during the Greek War of Independence.

The current flag of Greece was officially adopted during the First national assembly of the Greeks at Epidaurus in 1822, and the flag with the 9 stripes was adopted as a state and military ensign (a flag used only by the government and the military, and only on ships). Another flag was chosen as a land flag, it was a simple white cross on a blue field. A third flag was adopted for the merchant fleet (a flag to be used by civilians on ships only), but it was only used for 8 years. In 1978, the ensign was chosen as the sole national flag, and it is now used by everyone on land and sea as the flag of Greece.

A different opinion states that the Greek flag is an exact duplicate of the East India Trading Company flag. https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/f7/British_East_India_Company_Flag_from_Lens.jpg

It is sometimes known in Greece as the blue-white, in Greek Γαλανόλευκη (Galanólefki) or Κυανόλευκη (Kyanólefki).

[[Peugeot 307]]

CATEGORIES: Peugeot automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Peugeot 307 is a car produced by Peugeot. It replaced the 306 in 2001, facelifted in 2005 and replaced in 2007 by the 308. The platform of the 307 were also used for the Citroën C4. The model sold well but didn't have great reliability although it was improved with later models. 

[[Custard cream]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts

A custard cream is a type of biscuit which is popular in the United Kingdom. It looks like a biscuit sandwich with a cream center. 

Like the American Hydrox or Oreo, the custard cream can be eaten by twisting the two biscuits apart and eating the center first.

[[Bay Minette, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Bay Minette is a city in Baldwin County, Alabama, United States. According to the 2000 census, the population of the city was 7,820. According to the 2007 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 7726. The city is the county seat of Baldwin County.

[[Bakerhill, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Bakerhill or Baker Hill is a city in Barbour County, Alabama, United States, near Eufaula.  According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 321. Although it existed as an unincorporated village since before 1860, the city was officially incorporated in 2000.

[[Computer model]]

CATEGORIES: Computing, Modeling, Research

A computer-based model is a computer program that is designed to simulate what might or what did happen in a situation. They are used in many ways including in astronomy, economics and sciences such as physics and biology. Computer models are used in fields such as earthquake performance simulation and making models of buildings.

Well known areas which use computer models:

Computer modelling often uses numerical analysis to approximate the real solution of the problem. Simulation techniques are then used to get values. Numerical weather predictions are too inaccurate to give a good local prediction of the weather, so other methods are used to adjust them.  

[[M postcode area]]

CATEGORIES: Manchester

The M postcode area, also known as the Manchester postcode area, is a group of lots of postal districts in Greater Manchester, England.

The code covers three places: Manchester, Salford, and Sale. It covers parts of all Greater Manchester boroughs except for Stockport. All of Manchester is covered by the code, except for a small village called Ringway, which is in the WA postcode area. The postcode also includes nearly all of Salford and most of the borough of Trafford.

[[River Irwell]]

CATEGORIES: Manchester, Rivers of England

The River Irwell is a 39 long river which flows through the Irwell Valley in the counties of Lancashire and Greater Manchester in North West England.  The start of the river is at Irwell Springs on Deerplay Moor, about 1.5 north of the town of Bacup, in the parish of Cliviger, Lancashire.  The Irwell flows through  the city centres of Manchester and Salford, before joining the River Mersey near Irlam.

[[The Club (Nickelodeon)]]

CATEGORIES: Nickelodeon

Nicktropolis was a virtual world made for children aged six to fourteen.

[[Bessemer, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Bessemer is a city in southwestern Jefferson County, Alabama, United States and a suburb of Birmingham near Hueytown. The population was 29,672 at the 2000, but by the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had fallen to a population of 28,641.

[[Princess Louise, Duchess of Argyll]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1939 deaths, British royalty, House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha

The Princess Louise (Louise Caroline Alberta: Marquess of Lorne and Duchess of Argyll by marriage; 18 March 1848 – 3 December 1939) was the fourth daughter of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. She was interested in sculpture, and was a notable architect. In 1871, she married John, Marquess of Lorne (Duke of Argyll from 1900), but the marriage was unhappy. They made up with each other in the 1900s, and after Argyll's death in 1914, she had a nervous breakdown. She died in 1939 at the age of 91.

[[Brent, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Brent is a city in Bibb County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 4,024.

[[Boaz, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Boaz is a city in Etowah and Marshall Counties in the U.S. state of Alabama.  The city is named after the husband of Ruth, from the Book of Ruth in the Bible. It is part of the 'Gadsden, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area'. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 7,411.  According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 7,893.

[[1996 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 in the United States, 1996 elections, United States presidential elections

The 1996 United States presidential election happened on November 5, 1996. Bill Clinton, the incumbent president and Democratic candidate, won reelection. He defeated Bob Dole, the Republican candidate, who was the former Senator of Kansas for president, and Ross Perot, the Reform Party candidate, who was a businessman. 

Perot received less media attention and was not included in the presidential debates and, while still getting large results for a third-party candidate, by U.S. standards, did not renew his success in the 1992 election.

Clinton benefited from an economy that recovered from the early 1990s recession, and a relatively stable world stage. On November 5, 1996, President Clinton went on to win re-election by a substantial popular vote margin with a large electoral college victory.

[[Bridgeport, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Bridgeport is a small city in Jackson County, Alabama, United States. At the time of 2000 census the population was 2,728. Bridgeport is included in the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area.

[[Brewton, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Brewton is a city in Escambia County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 5,498. The city is the county seat of Escambia County.

[[Brighton, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Brighton is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 3,640.

[[Brighton (disambiguation)]]

Brighton is a city in East Sussex. 

Brighton may also mean:

[[East Brewton, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

East Brewton is a city in Escambia County, Alabama, United States. At the 2010 census, 2,478 people lived there.

[[Brundidge, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Brundidge is a city in Pike County, Alabama, USA. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 2,341.

[[Enterprise, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Enterprise is a city in Coffee and Dale Counties in Alabama, United States. The population is 23,653 in 2006.

[[Elba, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Elba is a city in Coffee County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 4,185. The city is the county seat of Coffee County.

[[Coffee County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Alabama

Coffee County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. Its name is in honor of General John Coffee.  As of 2007 the population was 46,793.  Its county seats are Elba and Enterprise. 

[[Evergreen, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Evergreen is a city in Conecuh County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 3,630. The city is the county seat of Conecuh County.

[[Eutaw, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Eutaw is a city in Greene County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 1,878. The city is the county seat of Greene County and was named after the Revolutionary War battle of Eutaw Springs, South Carolina. It is part of the Tuscaloosa, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Eufaula, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Eufaula is a city in Barbour County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 13,908.

[[Princess Helena of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: 1846 births, 1923 deaths, House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, Royalty from London

The Princess Helena (Helena Augusta Victoria: Princess Christian of Schleswig-Holstein by marriage; 25 May 1846 – 9 June 1923) was the third daughter of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. Helena was interested in nursing, needlework and writing, and she founded several nursing hospitals. In 1866, she married Prince Christian of Schleswig-Holstein, a minor German prince with very little money, and they lived near Queen Victoria in the United Kingdom. After Victoria's death in 1901, Helena and Christian lived in London and Windsor. Prince Christian died in 1916, shortly after their 50th wedding anniversary, and Helena died six years later in 1923 and was buried in Frogmore Garden Windsor beside her husband .

[[Oxford, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Oxford is a city in Calhoun and Talladega counties in the U.S. state of Alabama.  The population was 14,592 at the 2000 census.  Oxford is one of two principal cities of and included in the Anniston-Oxford Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Opp, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Opp is a city in Covington County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 6,607.

[[Deccan Plateau]]

CATEGORIES: Flood basalts, Plateaus, Volcanoes of Asia, Mountains of India

The Deccan Plateau is a large plateau that covers most of South India.  It is triangular, surrounded by three mountain ranges.  It extends over eight Indian states (principally, Telangana, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu).

The plateau covers 422000, 27.7 percent of India's landmass.

The uplands, areas of higher landmass, form a triangle that is nested in the familiar downward-pointing triangle of the Indian sub-continent's coastline. In the south of India, the plateau is largely over 1000 above sea level. In the north it is mostly about 500 above sea level.  

The plateau is extremely large, and there are many habitats: different ecosystems with different sorts of vegetation, climate, geology and animals.  The forests on the plateau are older than the Himalayan mountains.

On the west of the plateau are the Western Ghats and in the east are the Eastern Ghats. These mountain ranges rise from their nearby coastal plains and nearly meet at the southern tip of India. The mountains make the southward-pointing vertex of a triangle.  The northern boundary of the triangle is made up by the Satpura Range and Vindhya Range. These northern ranges separate the plateau from the heavily populated riverine plains of northern India.

[[Ozark, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Ozark is a city in and the county seat of Dale County, Alabama, United States. In 1980 the population was 12,205, and in 1990 it was 13,030. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 15,119.

[[Oneonta, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Oneonta is a city in Blount County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 5,576. The city is the county seat of Blount County. Oneonta is home to the Covered Bridge Festival.

[[Princess Alice of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: 1843 births, 1878 deaths, House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha

The Princess Alice (Alice Maud Mary: Grand Duchess of Hesse and by Rhine by marriage; April 25, 1843 – December 14, 1878). 

She was the second daughter of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. In 1861, she acted as the nurse to her dying father, and became interested in nursing. 

In 1862, she married Prince Louis of Hesse and moved to Hesse, where she had several children including Princess Elisabeth of Hesse, Alice Romanov Chaytow and Alexandra, future Russian Empress and wife of Tsar Nicholas II. 

After an unhappy marriage and a number of family deaths, the royal family of Hesse caught diphtheria. Alice's younger son died, and after kissing the elder one, she caught the disease and died on the anniversary of her father's death, 14 December 1878. She is buried in Hesse.

[[The Illuminatus! Trilogy]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, Science fiction books

The Illuminatus! Trilogy is a series of three novels written by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson between 1969 and 1971, and first published in 1975. The trilogy is a satirical, postmodern, science fiction story.

[[Fnord]]

CATEGORIES: Words

A Fnord is the typographic representation of disinformation or useless information with the intent to misdirect or confuse, with the implication of a conspiracy.

The word was coined as a nonsensical term with religious undertones in the Discordian religious text Principia Discordia (1965) by Kerry Thornley and Greg Hill, but was popularized by The Illuminatus! Trilogy (1975) of satirical conspiracy fiction novels by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson.

[[Disinformation]]

CATEGORIES: Words

Disinformation is false or inaccurate information that is spread on purpose  and is intended to mislead. It may include the handing out of forged documents, manuscripts, and photographs, or circulating malicious rumors and fabricated intelligence. Quite often this word is used in context of a government or large organisation trying to cause difficulties for a rival.

[[Principia Discordia]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 books

Principia Discordia is a Discordian religious text written by Greg Hill (Malaclypse The Younger) and Kerry Thornley (Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst). It was originally published under the title Principia Discordia or How The West Was Lost in a limited edition of 5 copies in 1965.

[[Discordianism]]

CATEGORIES: New religious movements

Discordianism is a postmodern religion in which disorder is as important as order, existing within chaos. It was founded circa 1958–1959 by Malaclypse the Younger, who published its most important text: the Principia Discordia.

The Sacred Chao and Five fingered hand of ERIS are the most recognized symbols of Discordianism.

[[List of Lord Mayors of Manchester]]

CATEGORIES: Manchester, Lists of politicians, Lists about England, Local government in England

This is a list of the Mayors and Lord Mayors of Manchester in the North West of England.

[[Tractor]]

CATEGORIES: Land vehicles, Agricultural machinery

A tractor is a strong work vehicle used for farming. It usually has a seat for only the driver, and can be used to pull many different tools or trailers.

[[Mantophasmatidae]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

The insect family Mantophasmatidae is the sole family in its order. It is a group of African carnivorous insects discovered in 2002. The most common vernacular name for this order is gladiators, but it is not well known under any name. 

Their modern centre of endemism is western South Africa and Namibia, although a relict population and Eocene fossils suggest a wider ancient distribution.

Members of the order are wingless even as adults, making them relatively difficult to identify. They resemble a mix between praying mantids and phasmids. Molecular evidence indicates that they are most closely related to a family known as the Grylloblattidae.

The mantophasmids were originally described from old museum specimens that found in Namibia (Mantophasma zephyra) and Tanzania (M. subsolana), and from a 45-million-year-old specimen of Baltic amber (Raptophasma kerneggeri).

The most recent classification recognizes numerous genera, including fossils.

[[Trafford]]

CATEGORIES: Metropolitan boroughs, Greater Manchester

The Metropolitan Borough of Trafford is a metropolitan borough of Greater Manchester, England. It is home to 211,800 people, covers 41 square miles, and includes the towns of Altrincham, Partington, Sale, Stretford, and Urmston.

[[NT]]

NT stands for:

[[Software developer]]

CATEGORIES: Industries

thumb|300px|Microsoft is one of the world's most famous software development companies. A software developer is a company or person that creates software - either completely, or with other companies or people. The phrase 'software development' often means more than just designing or writing the software, it usually means someone who manages the project, or does only the main things. Most software developers are still led by a lead programmer (a software engineer that guides the project).

A programmer generally only writes code, but a software developer usually will:

[[Ford Granada]]

CATEGORIES: Ford automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles

Ford Granada was a car produced by Ford Motor Company from 1972 through 1985 (1994 in UK). The Third Generation Granada was only sold as a Granada in UK; it was essentially a badge-engineered version of the First Generation Ford Scorpio.

The first generation appeared in March 1972 with saloon and estate versions, some lower-end models were called the Consul.  

The second generation launched in September 1977 with the same saloon and estate models and got a facelift in 1981. 

The third generation arrived in May 1985 with a hatchback version only, it was sold as the Scorpio in Europe and the Granada in the UK, the Scorpio name was used as a trim level on higher-end versions in the UK. A saloon version was added in early 1990 and an estate in early 1992. 

In late 1994, the Granada name was replaced by the Scorpio for all markets and was sold as a saloon or an estate, no hatchback was offered. However, the styling often divided opinion and didn’t sell too well and in 1998, the model was axed without a replacement.  

[[Ford Fusion]]

Ford Fusion is a name used on two different models of cars from the Ford Motor Company.

[[Ford Fusion (Americas)]]

CATEGORIES: Ford automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The American Ford Fusion is a car produced by Ford Motor Company since 2005 starting with the 2006 model year. It is sold in the Americas. The first generation model was produced from the 2006 to 2012 model years with a facelift in early 2009 as a 2010 model. The current second 

generation model launched in late 2012 as a 2013 model and was facelifted in Spring 2016 as a 2017 model. Ford is planning to discontinue the Fusion without a replacement due to more people buying Crossover vehicles and SUV's. 

[[Hand grenade]]

CATEGORIES: Explosives

A hand grenade is a small explosive device that is thrown at a target. It can be used as a weapon against an enemy soldier or vehicle. The most common type of grenade is the fragmentation grenade. Fragmentation grenades send out lots of very fast, very small fragments when they explode. Hand granades are usually thrown, and explode soon after that. Some specially designed grenades are fired from rifles or specially made grenade launchers. There are grenades which contain tear gas. These are used to control riots.

Hand grenades are used by the infantry. There are three main types: one which gives a big powerful blast to destroy bunkers, another which starts fires and another which contains shrapnel to hurt enemy soldiers. Most grenades are shaped like an egg, with a metal-arm on its top and a ring. When the ring is pulled out, the arm flips up and ignites a fuse. The user then has a few seconds to throw it and take cover, usually about 5 seconds. It explodes on impact and may injure or even kill people.

[[Diphtheria]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria

Diphtheria (pronounced "diff-THEER-ee-uh") is an infectious disease caused by a bacterium called Corynebacterium diphtheriae. It can be treated by special drugs, or by antibiotics. There is a vaccine which can prevent diphtheria.

Diphtheria can cause serious problems, like:

[[Complication]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

In medicine, people talk about complications if a disease or condition a patient has gets worse. This makes it more difficult (or more complicated, that is where the word is from) to treat. 

[[Dumbo (disambiguation)]]

Dumbo may mean:

[[Ford Escort]]

Ford Escort may refer to:

[[Ford Escort (North America)]]

CATEGORIES: Ford automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The North American Ford Escort was a car produced by Ford Motor Company from 1981 through 2002. Its successor, the Focus, was released in 2000. 

[[Exempli gratia]]

CATEGORIES: Latin phrases

Exempli gratia is a linking word, mostly known in English-speaking countries by its abbreviation e.g., means "for example" in Latin.

The literal translation is "for the sake of example". Gratia means "for the sake of" and is used with the genitive case. Exempli is the genitive singular form of exemplum meaning example.

Exempli gratia is sometimes confused with id est (i.e.). Id est means "that is (to say)" in the sense of "that means", or "which means", or "in other words", or sometimes "in this case".

[[Postal codes in France]]

CATEGORIES: France, Postal codes

The French postal code format is F- (or FR-) 99999. The first two digits give the département number. In Paris, Lyon and Marseille, the last two digits of the postal code shows the arrondissement. These codes are also used by French overseas departments and territories, except for French Southern and Antarctic Territories and Clipperton Island. Monaco is also part of the French postal code system. The country code MC- is used for Monegasque addresses. 

[[Opelika, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Opelika is a city in and the county seat of Lee County in the east central part of the U.S. state of Alabama. It is a principal city, along with Auburn, in the Auburn-Opelika, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA). According to 2005 Census estimates, the population of Opelika is 23,804.

[[Ricky Banderas]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Puerto Rican professional wrestlers, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Gilbert Cosme (born May 25, 1976) is a Puerto Rican professional wrestler. He is better known by his ring names El Mesías and Ricky Banderas. Cosme began his career in the International Wrestling Association in Puerto Rico. While performing in the company, he won the IWA World Heavyweight Championship five times. He also held minor championships on fifteen times. Cosme left the company in 2006.

On March 12, 2006 he started wrestling in Asistencia Asesoría y Administración in Mexico as a character named Muerte Cibernetica. In November 2006, Cosme was involved in the tapings of the Wrestling Society X television series. He was the second and last wrestler to win the WSX Championship. Cosme returned to Puerto Rico and wrestled again with International Wrestling Association for a month. He then returned to Asistencia Asesoría y Administración in a special event presented by the company. At this time, he started using the name Mesias. In September 2007, the company held a tournament where all of the champions and first contenders wrestled. In the tournament, he won the GPCW Super-X Monster Championship and IWC World Heavyweight Championship. In the final match of the tournament, he became the first wrestler to win the AAA World Heavyweight Championship. While working in Mexico, Cosme signed a contract with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) where he started wrestling on September 13, 2007 as Judas Mesias. Cosme wrestled for TNA until March 2008. He is currently wrestling in Lucha Underground under his ring name Mil Muertes. He debuted for Lucha Underground on the episode, which aired on November 6, 2014.

[[High Wycombe]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Buckinghamshire

High Wycombe is a large town in south Buckinghamshire. It has a population of about 92,300 people. The town is the second largest town in Buckinghamshire after Milton Keynes. High Wycombe is the central hub for south Buckinghamshire and parts of Berkshire, Oxfordshire and Hertfordshire. It has central bus and railway stations with services to London and Birmingham, England's two largest cities. It is also a shopping area. It has one of the largest shopping centres in England. The town is in the Chilterns, an area of natural beauty. This makes it a tourist location. It has a museum, a regional theatre, a tourist information centre and two National Trust properties within three miles of the town centre. It is also a sporting venue. The venue has a large football stadium and one of few olympic size swimming pools in the United Kingdom. The town has some colleges that offer quality education and several well-regarded grammar schools as well as Wycombe Abbey, a famous private girls school. Some of the top-rated colleges in High Wycombe are Highcrest Academy, Amersham & Wycombe College, and Royal Grammar School.

Notable residents past and present include:

[[Taylor]]

Taylor is an English surname. It means "tailor". It may also mean Taylor, the given name.

[[Jock Sturges]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American photographers, People from New York City

Jock Sturges (born 1947) is an American photographer. He is most well known for taking photographs of young people, often in the nude. His work on the nude beaches in France and California has been the subject of disputes. 

Sturges was born in New York City. He got his degree in photography at Marlboro College. Sturges caused dispute, as his work is mostly young girls and boys photographed in the nude. In April 1990, he was raided and arrested by the FBI, but the case was thrown out by the Grand Jury, because his photographs were of naturism rather than pornography. 

[[Pakistani rupee]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of Asia, Economy of Pakistan

The rupee (symbol: Rs; code: PKR) is the currency of Pakistan. The issuance of the currency is controlled by the State Bank of Pakistan. The most commonly used symbol for the rupee is Rs, used on receipts when purchasing goods and services. In Pakistan, the rupee is referred to as the "rupees", "rupaya" or "rupaye". As standard in Pakistani English, large values of rupees are counted in terms of thousands, lakh (hundred thousands, in digits 100,000) and crore (ten millions, in digits 10,000,000).

[[Golden Crescent]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran

The Golden Crescent is the name given to one of Asia's two principal areas of illicit opium production, in South-central Asia and Western Asia. This space overlaps three nations, Afghanistan, Iran, and Pakistan, whose mountainous border areas define the crescent.

[[French Beach, Karachi]]

CATEGORIES: Beaches of Pakistan, Karachi

French Beach of Karachi is a small fishing village. It is half way between Hawkes Bay and Paradise Point. The local people call it Haji Abdullah Goth. It is surrounded by a boundary wall. It has 20 huts for rent. The village does not have running water or electric power. Its rocky beach and clear waters are ideal for snorkeling and scuba diving. Visitors must bring their own equipment as well as food and drink supplies. 

[[Westminster School]]

CATEGORIES: City of Westminster, Schools in London

The Royal College of St. Peter in Westminster, almost always known as Westminster School, is one of Britain's leading private schools. It has the highest number of students going to Oxford or Cambridge Universities of any secondary school or college (49.9%). It had the best GCSE results in 2013, with 98.16% of entries getting A* or A grades.

The school is near to Westminster Abbey in central London. It existed before the 12th century. The school's notable ex-students include Nick Clegg, Ben Jonson, Robert Hooke, Christopher Wren, Jeremy Bentham, and A. A. Milne. Boys enter the Westminster Under School when they are seven years old. They go to the main school when they are thirteen. Girls are allowed only at sixteen. The school has about 750 students. About a third are boarders (who live in the school). Most of the boarders go home for the weekends, after Saturday morning school. The school has eleven houses.

The school made Harris Westminster Sixth Form, a sixth form free school, with the Harris Federation in 2013. It opens in September 2014. It will give preference to applying students from poor backgrounds.

[[Depression (mood)]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Symptoms, Emotions

Depression is a state of low mood and not wanting to do anything. It can change what a person thinks, does, feels, and sense of well-being. It may lead to being sad, make it harder to think and a large change in appetite and time spent sleeping. People who have depression may feel no hope and, sometimes, thoughts of suicide. It can either be short term or long term. The main symptom of depression is said to be anhedonia, which means losing of interest in things that usually make people happy. Depressed mood is a symptom of some mood disorders such as major depressive disorder or dysthymia; it is a normal reaction to life events, such as losing a loved one; and it is also caused by some physical diseases and a side effect of some drugs and medical treatments.

[[Gadani Beach]]

CATEGORIES: Beaches of Pakistan

Gadani Beach is a beach on the Arabian Sea. It is near the Hub River and Cape Monze in Gadani,  Lasbela District, Baluchistan, Pakistan. 

Many ships have been broken up for scrap at Gadani Beach, including the SS Canberra in 1997.

[[Sandspit Beach]]

CATEGORIES: Beaches of Pakistan

Sandspit Beach is a beach southwest of Karachi, Pakistan. It is a famous tourist spot. The sea at Sandspit is calm and quiet from October to March but it is rough during the monsoon season. A variety of marine life (algae and crabs) is found there. The shallow water here is good for swimming and sunbathing. It has an unusual rocky formation. Sandspit beach is a popular relaxation spot in Karachi. Facilities at the Sandspit Beach include horseback and camel riding.

[[Hawke's Bay (Karachi)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Pakistan, Karachi

Hawksbay Town or Hawksbay Housing Scheme No.42 is in Keamari Town in Karachi, Sindh, in Pakistan. Hawke's Bay Town was notified in July 1984 by Karachi Development Authority.

[[Paradise Point]]

CATEGORIES: Beaches of Pakistan, Karachi

Paradise Point is a beach in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. Paradise Point is a sandstone rock promontory with a natural arch.

The beach has attractions for families and tourists, including beachside horse and camel rides, amusement parks, restaurants, and swimming in the Arabian Sea.

Other beaches close to the city include Sandspit Beach, Hawke's Bay, and Clifton beach.

[[Charlotte's Web (disambiguation)]]

Charlotte's Web is a 1952 children's book written by E. B. White.

It can also mean:

[[Dave Baksh]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian guitarists, 1980 births, Living people, People from Ontario

David Nizaam "Brownsound" Baksh (born 26 July, 1980 in Ajax, Ontario) is a Canadian guitarist, singer and producer of Guyanese descent, best known as the former guitarist of successful pop punk band Sum 41, but has since became a singer/guitarist in his own heavy metal/reggae project Brown Brigade.

[[Half Hour of Power]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums, Sum 41

Half Hour of Power is Sum 41's debut EP. Despite its title, there is only 24 minutes of music on it. It was released on June 27, 2000 on Big Rig Records, a subsidiary of Island Records (US), and Aquarius Records (Canada).

[[William Tecumseh Sherman]]

CATEGORIES: 1820 births, 1891 deaths, American Civil War generals, People from Ohio, American Roman Catholics

William Tecumseh Sherman (February 8, 1820 – February 14, 1891) was an American soldier, businessman, educator, and author.  Before the Civil War, he fought in the Mexican-American War and was the head of Louisiana State University. He served as a General in the Union Army during the American Civil War (1861–65). While general, he led the Atlanta Campaign and burned the city. Sherman's March to the Sea later devastated Georgia and burned Savannah.  After the Civil War, he was in charge of all the Union Armies.  He was urged several times to run for President of the United States, but declined to run each time.

[[Mathew Brady]]

CATEGORIES: American photographers, Writers from New York City, American journalists, Accidental deaths, 1823 births, 1896 deaths

Mathew B. Brady (1822 – January 15, 1896) was one of the most celebrated 19th century American photographers, best known for his portraits of celebrities and the documentation of the American Civil War. He is credited with being the father of photojournalism.

[[Monieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Monieux is a commune of 250 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Monteux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Monteux is a commune of 9,564 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Morières-lès-Avignon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Morières-lès-Avignon is a commune of 6,535 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Mormoiron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Mormoiron is a commune of 1,562 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Mornas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Mornas is a commune of 2,209 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[La Motte-d'Aigues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

La Motte-d'Aigues is a commune of 1,328 people (2008). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Murs, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Murs is a commune of 415 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Oppède]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Oppède is a commune of 1,226 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Orange, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Orange is a commune of 29,000 people (2005). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Pernes-les-Fontaines]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Pernes-les-Fontaines is a commune of 10,170 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Pertuis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Pertuis is a commune of 18,906 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Peypin-d'Aigues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Peypin-d'Aigues is a commune of 586 people (2006). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Piolenc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Piolenc is a commune of 4,445 people (2005). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Le Pontet, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Le Pontet is a commune of 15,594 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Puget]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Puget is a commune of 589 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Puyméras]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Puyméras is a commune of 610 people (1999). It is in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Puyvert]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Puyvert is a commune of 541 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Rasteau]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Rasteau is a commune in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in south France.

[[Richerenches]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Richerenches is a commune of 616 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department. This in the south of France.

[[Roaix]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Roaix is a commune of 587 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Robion]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Robion is a commune of 3,844 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[La Roque-Alric]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

La Roque-Alric is a commune of 54 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[La Roque-sur-Pernes]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

La Roque-sur-Pernes is a commune of 447 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Roussillon, Vaucluse]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Roussillon is a commune of 1,161 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France. It was elected one of the prettiest villages in France (un des plus beau villages de France)

[[Rustrel]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Vaucluse

Rustrel is a commune of 614 people (1999). It is in the region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Vaucluse department in the south of France.

[[Hershey–Chase experiment]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Bacteria, Viruses, Molecular biology, Experiments

One sourcethumb|300px|The experiment

The Hershey–Chase experiments were a series of experiments started in 1952 by Alfred Hershey and Martha Chase. 

These experiments were to confirm that DNA was the genetic material in living things, which had previously been discovered by the Swiss physician Friedrich Miescher in his experiments on white blood cells, or leukocytes, between 1868 and 69. Hershey shared the 1969 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his “discoveries concerning the genetic structure of viruses.”

[[Samos City]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Samos City is the capital of the Greek island Samos. It is in the northeast of the island. Samos City has about 6,000 people. The old town of Samos city is named Vathy. Vathy is beside Samos and it is jointed with it. It is a traditional small town with traditional houses and narrow paths. Vathy has about 2,000 people.

[[Amfissa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Amfissa is a Greek city. It is in the center of Greece, at the foot of Parnassos mountain. Near Amfissa is Delfi. According to the 2001 census, 6,947 lived there. During the Middle Ages it was named Salona, but today is named with its ancient name, Amfissa. Amfissa is an agriculturist city. The main financial source in Amfissa is olive oil. Oil-tree is the main cultivation in district of Amfissa. The most interest sight in the town is the ancient castle above town.

[[Tann, Hesse]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Hesse, Spa towns in Germany, Fulda (district)

Tann is a town in the district of Fulda, in Hesse, Germany. It is in the Rhön Mountains, 27 km northeast of Fulda. It is an accredited Spa town at the Ulster River.

[[Antlion]]

CATEGORIES: Neuroptera

Antlion are a family of insects in the order Neuroptera with the scientific name Myrmeleontidae. The most well-known genus is Myrmeleo. There are about 2,000 species.

[[Body image]]

CATEGORIES: Physiques, Humans

Body image refers to the perceptions of a human's own physical appearance. It can also refer to  the internal sense of having a body which is interpreted by the brain.

A 2007 report by the American Psychological Association found that a culture-wide sexualization of girls (and women) was contributing to increased female anxiety associated with body image. The study found that women are more worried about their body image than men, though the last pioneered the culture of bodybuilding. 

[[Heraclion]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece, Crete

Heraclion is the biggest city of Crete. 132,000 lived there in 2001 census. Heraclion is in the north of Crete. It is near Knossos, the ancient capital of Crete and the center of Minoan civilization. Heraclion has a big harbor which it connects Heraclion with continental Greece. Heraclion has a hot summer Mediterranean climate.

[[Volos]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Volos is a Greek city. It is in the center of Greece, in the district of Thessalia. 85,000 people live in the city. There are over 115,000 people in the city and its suburbs. The major suburb of Volos is Nea Ionia which is in the northwest of Volos. Volos is next to Pilio mountain. It is a coastal city and has a big harbor. Volos's harbor connects Volos with the Sporades Islands and other places. Near Volos are the ancient Greek towns, Iolkos, Dimitrias and Pagases. Volos is at the same place as Pagases. The hero Jason was from Iolkos. Today Volos is an industrial town.

[[Chalkida]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Chalkida (or Chalkis) is a Greek town. Its population is 55,264 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. Chalkida is located to the north of Athens, on Euboea island. It is at the point where the Euboea is nearest to mainland Greece. At this point is the Eyripous narrow, a sea narrow, where there is a tidal phenomenon.

[[Act]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Act has several meanings:

[[Blow]]

Blow may refer to:

[[Tuskegee, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Tuskegee is a city in Macon County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 11,846 and is designated a Micropolitan Statistical Area. It has been the site of major African-American achievements for more than 100 years. It is where, in 1881, Lewis Adams founded the Tuskegee Normal School for Colored Teachers, which later became Tuskegee Institute and then Tuskegee University, with the mission of educating a newly freed people for self-sufficiency, and was the birthplace of Rosa Louise Parks in 1913. Today it remains a center for African-American education and became a part of the National Parks System in 1974. One of the most famous teachers at Tuskegee was  George Washington Carver, whose name is linked to new forms of research into Southern farming method and crops. Tuskegee and Tuskegee Institute were also home to the famed Tuskegee Airmen, the first squadron of African-American pilots in the U.S. Military. The city is the county seat of Macon County, and is known as the home of Tuskegee University "The Pride of the Swift Growing South".

[[Tuscumbia, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Tuscumbia is a city in and the county seat of Colbert County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 7,856 and is included in The Shoals MSA. Tuscumbia is the hometown of Helen Keller and the location of the Alabama Music Hall of Fame.

[[Tuscaloosa County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 establishments in Alabama Territory

Tuscaloosa County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. It was named in honor of the Choctaw chief Tuskaloosa.  In 2007, the population was recorded as 171,159. 

In 2000, 164,875 people lived there.

[[Trussville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Trussville is a city and suburb of Birmingham in Jefferson and St. Clair Counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. At the 2000 census the population was 12,924, though the 2006 estimate puts the population at 17,796.

[[Thomasville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Thomasville is a city in Clarke County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 4,649. It is notable as the childhood hometown of author and storyteller Kathryn Tucker Windham, who refers to it often in her storytelling.

[[Tarrant, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Tarrant is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 7,022.

[[Tallassee, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, 1835 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Alabama

Tallassee is a city in the U.S. state of Alabama. It is in both

Elmore County and Tallapoosa County. At the 2000 census, the population was 4,934. It is home to a major hydroelectric power plant at Thurlow Dam operated by Alabama Power Company.

[[Talladega, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Talladega (locally, ˌtæləˈdɪgə) is a city in Talladega County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 15,143. The city is the county seat of Talladega County.  Talladega is about 50 east of Birmingham, Alabama.

[[Troy, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Troy is a city in Pike County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 13,935.  A new census estimate documented in the July 18, 2008, edition of the Dothan Eagle newspaper, lists Troy's population as 14,482. The city is the county seat of Pike County6. It is home to Troy University (formerly Troy State University).

[[Dadeville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Dadeville is a city in Tallapoosa County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 3,212. The city is the county seat of Tallapoosa County.

[[Tuskegee]]

Tuskegee may mean 

United States of America;

Other;

[[Daleville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Daleville is a city in Dale County of Alabama in the United States. At the 2000 census, 4,653 people lived there. It is part of the Enterprise–Ozark Micropolitan Statistical Area.  The city's nickname is "Gateway to Fort Rucker", as this U.S. Army post is just north of town. Cairns Army Airfield is to the south of Daleville on the road to nearly Clayhatchee.

[[Daphne, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Daphne is a city in Baldwin County, Alabama, USA on the eastern shoreline of Mobile Bay. The city is located just off I-10, 11 miles east of Mobile, Alabama and 150 miles southwest of Montgomery the State Capital. The 2000 census lists the population of the city as 16,581 making Daphne the most populous city in Baldwin County.

[[Delmar, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Alabama

Delmar is a small, rural, unincorporated community in west-central Winston County, United States. Delmar is located six miles north of Natural Bridge five miles south of Haleyville and 15 miles west of Double Springs, the county seat of what was once the "Free State of Winston." Delmar has an elevation of 881 feet above sea level.

[[Dora, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Dora is a city in Walker County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,413. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 7.5 square miles (19.5 km²), all of it land.

[[Demopolis, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Demopolis is the largest city in Marengo County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 7,540.

[[Juan Garcia Oliver]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1980 deaths, Spanish anarchists, Spanish Civil War

Juan García Oliver (1901, Reus, Tarragona Province–1980) was a [[Spain|

Spanish]] Anarcho-syndicalist revolutionary, and an important person in the Anarchism in Spain.

[[Don McLean]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American composers, American folk musicians, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, Singer-songwriters from New York, Singers from New York

Don McLean (born October 2, 1945) is an American singer and songwriter. He is most well known for the songs "American Pie" and "Vincent".

In his early career, Don McLean mainly played folk music. He sang folk songs and played simple chords with acoustic guitar and harmonica. In 1969, Don Mclean joined folk singer Pete Seeger in the environment campaign. They gave talks and playing concerts to help people know some of the problems with the environment. Also in the same year, Don McLean released his first album Tapestry. This album was not very successful. McLean continued to perform in many small places.

In 1971, Don Mclean released an eight minute long song named "American Pie". The song was dedicated to Don McLean’s music hero Buddy Holly. Much of the song was about the deaths of Holly, Ritchie Valens and The Big Bopper (J.P. Richardson) in 1959. It also dealt with many important events in American history. Quickly "American Pie" became the number 1 song in the United States. Don McLean became a superstar and drew many audiences to his concerts. In 2005, American Pie was voted 5th in the "365 songs of the century" list. His second single "Vincent", featuring Vincent Van Gogh's masterpiece "Starry Night", also topped the UK and US charts in 1971. The song is played in Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam every day.

In the later 1970s, Don McLean tried other styles of songs. He was not as popular with these other styles. Bad sales of albums caused him to change recording companies from one to another. Finally, in 1980, Don McLean regained his popularity by playing "Crying", a song first sang by Roy Orbison. The song reached the first place in UK chart. 

Don McLean is not as popular today as he was before. He is still writing and singing his own songs and performing in concerts.

The famous guitar player, Eric Clapton, spoke highly of Don McLean’s guitar playing skill after listening to his guitar performance. Also, Don McLean’s performance on stage once inspired Lori Lieberman to write the 1974 Grammy-winning song "Killing me softly with his song". Most of the successive folk singers entitled him with "US legend"

[[A (Cyrillic)]]

CATEGORIES: Vowel letters

Ah (A, a) is the first letter of the Cyrillic alphabet.

It came from the Greek alpha. A long time ago, it was called azǔ and stood for the number 1. It looks exactly the same as the Roman A.

All languages that use the Cyrillic alphabet say it as ah.

[[Be (Cyrillic)]]

Beh (Б, б) is the second letter in the Cyrillic alphabet.

It came from the Greek beta, along with the Cyrillic veh. Its old name was buky. It stands for the Roman B.

The uppercase Б looks like a B with the top curve missing and the lowercase one looks like the number 6.

People say it as b.

[[Bare-faced Curassow]]

CATEGORIES: Galliformes, Birds of South America

The bare-faced curassow (Crax fasciolata) Spanish "muitu" is a species of bird in the Cracidae family, the chachalacas, guans, curassows, etc.

It is found in eastern-central and southern Brazil, Paraguay, and eastern Bolivia, extreme northeast Argentina, and Amazon Basin.

[[Accent (disambiguation)]]

The word accent has more than one meaning. Accent could mean any of the following:

[[Diacritic]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabetic diacritics

A diacritic (for example, an acute accent) is a mark put above, below, through or on a letter. The word comes from the Greek word διακριτικός (transl. diakritikós = 'distinguishing').

Usually, it affects the way the word is said (pronounced). Most diacritics concern pronunciation because most alphabets do not describe the sounds of words exactly. Diacritics are rare in English, but common in many other languages.

[[Everything as a service]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science, Internet, Computer networking

Everything as a service(EaaS, XaaS,  *aaS) is a concept of being able to call up re-usable, fine-grained software components across a network. It is a subset of cloud computing. The most common and successful example is software as a service (SaaS), but the term as a service has been associated and used with many core components of cloud computing including communication, infrastructure, data and platforms.

A number of vendors including Google, Microsoft, Hewlett Packard and Amido have been associated with the "everything as a service" trend.

[[Lorraine Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, British journalists, Entertainers from Glasgow, Scottish television presenters, Television personalities from Glasgow

Lorraine Kelly CBE (born 30 November 1959, Gorbals, Glasgow) is a British television presenter and journalist. She is known for presenting the television programme on GMTV, Lorraine. 

Kelly helped start GMTV in January 1993.  She presented a range of programmes, including the main breakfast show with Eamonn Holmes. Kelly writes weekly columns for The Sun and The Sunday Post. 

Kelly was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2012 New Year Honours for services to charity and the armed forces.

[[George A. Romero]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2017 deaths, Actors from the Bronx, American cinematographers, American movie actors, American movie editors, American television directors, American television producers, Canadian movie actors, Canadian movie directors, Canadian movie producers, Canadian screenwriters, Canadian television directors, Canadian television producers, Cancer deaths in Ontario, Deaths from lung cancer, Movie directors from New York City, Movie producers from New York City, Naturalized citizens of Canada, Screenwriters from New York City, Writers from the Bronx

George Andrew Romero (February 4, 1940 – July 16, 2017) was an American-Canadian director, writer, editor and actor. He is known for his horror movies with zombie themes.

[[Fred Jones (Scooby-Doo)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1969, Scooby-Doo characters

Frederick "Fred" Jones, also known as Freddie, is a fictional character from Scooby-Doo. He is the official leader of Mystery Incorporated.

[[Standard Chinese]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese language

Standard Chinese or Standard Mandarin, is the official modern Chinese spoken language used in mainland China and Taiwan and is one of the four official languages of Singapore. It is based off the Mandarin dialect and should not be confused with other varieties of Chinese.

[[Languages of Singapore]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Asia, Singapore

There are many languages in Singapore. The reason is that Singapore has a multi-ethnic society. The Singapore government recognises four official languages: English, Malay, Mandarin, and Tamil. Due to the Singapore's history, the symbolic national language is Malay. The local patois spoken on the streets is a creole called Singlish amongst the locals. It is known by academics as 'Singapore Colloquial English'.

[[Stratovarius]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in Europe, Finnish heavy metal bands, Power metal bands, Musical groups from Helsinki, 20th century establishments in Finland

Stratovarius is a Finnish power metal band that formed in 1983.  Their material contains elements of symphonic metal, progressive metal and NWOBHM.

[[Sino-Tibetan languages]]

CATEGORIES: Sino-Tibetan languages

The Sino-Tibetan or Trans-Himalayan languages, form a language family. This includes Chinese and the Tibeto-Burman languages and some 250 languages of East Asia. Kra-Dai languages and Hmong–Mien languages are also sometimes included. 

The largest language within this family are the Chinese languages by far with over 1.3 billion native speakers. It is also the one with the oldest writing (hanzi) going back to the Jiahu symbols in 6600 BC.cn

All these languages descend from a single proto-language. People are still working on what this sounded like.

[[Jens Johansson]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Keyboardists, Swedish musicians

Jens Johansson (born November 2, 1963 in Stockholm) is a world-renowned Swedish power metal keyboardist and pianist. He is noted as one of the first and most influential "shred" keyboardists, for his high-speed neoclassical and fusion style.

[[Timo Kotipelto]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people

Timo Antero Kotipelto (born March 15 1969) is the vocalist of the Finnish power metal band Stratovarius and is the creator and vocalist of the power metal band Kotipelto.

[[Jörg Michael]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, German musicians, Drummers

Jörg Michael (born 27 March 1963) is a German drummer. 

Most of the bands Michael has played with are in the power metal genre. He is one of the most notable drummers of that style. Michael has played an important part in shaping the drumming characteristics of this genre. The first album he recorded was Prayers of Steel with the band Avenger (the band would later change their name to Rage). By the middle of the 1980s, he no longer worked with just one band, but worked as a studio session drummer. Because of this, he has been a part of many different bands and albums.

[[Lauri Porra]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Finnish musicians, Heavy metal guitarists

Lauri Porra (born December 13, 1977) is a Finnish bass guitarist. He is best known for his work in Stratovarius and Sinergy.

[[LK Today]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s British television series, ITV television programmes, English-language television programs

LK Today was a British lifestyle programme hosted by Lorraine Kelly.

[[Velma Dinkley]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1969, Scooby-Doo characters

Velma Dinkley is a fictional character in the cartoon series Scooby-Doo. She was voiced by Mindy Cohn in 2002-2015, 2016-2020.

[[Gino Lucetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1943 deaths, Italian anarchists

Gino Lucetti (August 31, 1900 - September 17, 1943) was an Italian anarchist. He was born in Carrara, Italy. He fought in World War I. Later he went to France, from where he returned to try to kill the Italian dictator Benito Mussolini. On September 11 1926, in the Porta Pia square in Rome, he threw a bomb against Mussolini's car, but without effect. Arrested, Lucetti was condemned to spend his life in prison. In 1943, Lucetti escaped from prison with the help of others, but died shortly during a bombing of Ischia.

[[Pierhead Building]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Wales, Cardiff, 1897 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1890s establishments in Wales

The Pierhead Building is a building in Cardiff, Wales, UK. It was designed by William Frame, built in 1897, and is owned by the National Assembly for Wales. It is one of Cardiff's most famous landmarks.

[[Tibeto-Burman languages]]

CATEGORIES: Sino-Tibetan languages

The Tibeto-Burman family of languages (often considered a sub-group of the Sino-Tibetan language family) is spoken in various central and south Asian countries, including Myanmar (Burma), Tibet, northern Thailand, Vietnam, Laos, parts of central China (Guizhou, Hunan), northern parts of Nepal, north-eastern parts of Bangladesh, Bhutan, western Pakistan (Baltistan), and various regions of India (Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, and both the Ladakh and Kargil regions of Jammu and Kashmir).

The subfamily includes approximately 350 languages; Burmese has the most speakers (approximately 32 million). Approximately 8 million Tibetans and related peoples speak one of several related Tibetan dialects or languages.

[[Yellow Emperor]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors and Empresses of China, Taoism

Huang-di, (黃帝/黄帝 huángdì) or the Yellow Emperor, is a legendary Chinese sovereign and cultural hero who is thought to be the ancestor of all Han Chinese. One of the legendary Five Emperors, it was written in the Shiji by historian Sima Qian (145 BC-90 BC) that Huangdi reigned from 2497 BC to 2398 BC. His personal name was said to be Gongsun Xuanyuan (公孙轩辕). He became the chief deity of Taoism during the Han Dynasty (202 BC-220 AD). 

[[Hermit crab]]

CATEGORIES: Crabs

The hermit crab is a type of crab that does not have a hard shell. They use old shells for protection. They especially like old whelk shells. When the hermit crab grows in size, it finds a larger shell.

[[Alex Salmond]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Calvinists, Former members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies, Scottish Parliament Members, First Ministers of Scotland

Alexander Elliot Anderson "Alex" Salmond (surname pronounced SAM-MOND; born 31 December 1954 in Linlithgow, Scotland) is a Scottish politician who is a former First Minister of Scotland and former leader of the Scottish National Party (SNP) which is a political party that wants Scotland to become an independent country from the United Kingdom. He is also the longest-serving First Minister of Scotland, with over seven-and-a-half years in office.

Alex Salmond studied at the University of St Andrews and became an economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland. Salmond became a Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Banff and Buchan at the 1987 General Election. In 1990, Alex Salmond became the leader of the Scottish National Party. He became a Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) for Banff and Buchan at the 1999 Scottish Parliament Election and resigned as SNP leader in 2000.

Salmond became the party leader again in 2004 and stood in the 2007 Scottish Parliament election for the constituency of Gordon. At this election, the SNP received the highest number of seats and the highest share of the vote in Scotland, but did not have enough seats to form a majority government. The SNP then formed a minority government with Alex Salmond as First Minister.

Alex Salmond was against the 2003 invasion of Iraq and was one of several MPs who called for Prime Minister Tony Blair to be impeached. At the 2010 General Election, Alex Salmond stood down as a Member of Parliament but argued against the BBC's decision not to allow the SNP on the televised Prime Ministerial Debates.

On 19 September 2014, following the results of the independence referendum which confirmed a majority of the Scottish people had voted to remain as part of the United Kingdom, Salmond announced that he would be resigning as First Minister in November 2014. Salmond formally resigned as First Minister on 18 November 2014, with his deputy, Nicola Sturgeon taking office two days later.

[[First Minister of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: First Ministers of Scotland, 1999 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s establishments in Scotland

First Minister of Scotland is the chief executive of the government of Scotland. The current First Minister of Scotland is Nicola Sturgeon of the Scottish National Party, since 20 November 2014 after Alex Salmond resigned following the defeat of the pro-independence campaign in the Scottish independence referendum. The first was Donald Dewar, who died in office in 2000. Alex Salmond was the longest-serving First Minister with over seven-and-a-half years in office. The official residence of First Minister is Bute House in Edinburgh, Scotland.

[[Corinne Enaudeau]]

CATEGORIES: French philosophers, 20th century philosophers

Corinne Enaudeau is a French philosopher. She is the daughter of Jean-François Lyotard.

A teacher in philosophy in the Lycée Henri-IV of Paris and the Lycée Janson de Sailly, she is also the program director of International College of philosophy of Paris.

[[People's Alliance for Democracy]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Asia, Politics of Thailand

The People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD) is a political pressure group in Thailand. It was originally a coalition of protestors against the government of Thaksin Shinawatra. It called for the resignation of Shinawatra and two later prime ministers, Samak Sundaravej and Somchai Wongsawat. It is also called the National Liberation Alliance or the Yellow Shirts after the colour of the clothes they wear. It started from accusations of fraud against Shinawatra's business deals.

In November 2008, the PAD seized Donmuang and Suvarnabhumi Airports to force Prime Minister Somchai Wongsawa to resign. The airports had to close. In 2011 they camped outside Government House for almost 200 days to protest about government policy.

Supporters wear yellow shirts with a hat that has a Latin message liberate (กู้ชาติ). They wear a blue scarf and they use tools that to make the sound like clapping hands (มือตบ).

[[King Naresuan]]

CATEGORIES: 1555 births, 1605 deaths, Kings and queens, Thai nobility

[[South Thailand insurgency]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Thailand, Conflicts, 20th century rebellions, Rebellions in Asia, Insurgencies

The insurgency in Southern Thailand is a violent rebellion that is taking place in three southern provinces of Thailand. There are Naratiwat Pattani, and Yala. Most of the people that live in these provinces are not related to Thai people. They are Muslim Malays.

[[Triode]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components

A triode (“valve” in British) is a type of empty tube with wires in it (vacuum tube). It is not a vacuum tube diode, which has only two wires (electrodes), but has a third electrode, called the grid between the 2 wires (cathode (electric thrower) and anode (electric eater)). 

[[List of prime ministers of Thailand]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Thailand, Lists of prime ministers

Thailand has had 26 prime ministers since it changed from a monarchy to a democratic regime.

[[Suvarnabhumi Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Asia, Buildings and structures in Thailand

Suvarnabhumi Airport (ท่าอากาศยานสุวรรณภูมิ; IATA: BKK, ICAO: VTBS), also unofficially known as Bangkok Airport, is the main international airport of Bangkok, Thailand. It is located in Bangchoung, Rachatawa, Noungprue and Bangphli district Samutprakarn province. The area of the airport is about 32. It is six times bigger than Don Mueang International Airport, the other international airport serving Greater Bangkok.

[[Sanam Luang]]

CATEGORIES: Bangkok, Town squares

Sanam Luang is a big field in front of Wat Phra Kaew and the Grand Palace in Bangkok, Thailand. Sanam Luang has another name, Tung Pra Me'ru (meaning cremation field). It was used for cremation of the King and his royal relatives. In 1855, King Rama IV changed the field's name to Sanam luang, announcing that the old name was thought unlucky. 

King Rama I used Sanam Luang to officiate ceremonies. Then in King Rama V's era, Sanam Luang was extended and the buildings around it were destroyed. The people used Sanam Luang to perform ceremonies instead of growing rice.  

In King Rama VI's era, Sanam Luang was used for horse racing and part of the field was turned into a golf couse. 

At present, the Thai people still use Sanam Luang to officiate royal ceremonies for the King, princes and princesses. Sanam Luang is an important national site.

[[Baltistan]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Pakistan, Gilgit-Baltistan, Divisions of Jammu and Kashmir

Baltistan (بلتستان), also known as بلتیول (Baltiyul) in the Balti language, is a region in northern Pakistan. It borders Xinjiang Autonomous Region of China.  It lies in the Karakoram mountains just to the south of K2, the world's second highest mountain.  It is an extremely mountainous region, with an average altitude of over 3,350 m (11,000 ft). It is inhabited principally by Balti Shi'a Muslims of Tibetan descent who converted from Tibetan Buddhism before the 16th century.

Baltistan was an independent state but was occupied by the Raja (King) of Kashmir in the nineteenth century.  In 1947 when India and Pakistan gained independence, it was still part of Kashmir. Now the region is divided between Pakistan and India.  

The elections on 12 November 2009 brought about a major change and upheaval in the Baltistan region, which had been once an area ruled by a feudal Raja and then an area under Pakistani military control. It is believed that democracy in the region will also help to bring about more economic development and public empowerment. 

[[Balti language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Northern Areas (Pakistan), Languages of Pakistan

Balti (بلتی) is a language spoken in Baltistan, in the Gilgit Baltistan of Pakistan and adjoining parts of the disputed territory of Indian-administered Kashmir. Before 1948 Baltistan  was part of Ladakh province. The language is a sub-dialect of Ladakhi and an archaic dialect of the Tibetan language, but many of the consonants that are silent in most modern Tibetan dialects are pronounced in Balti.

[[Raja]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of state, Titles, History of Pakistan, History of India

A Raja (राजा (rājā), also spelled Rajah) is a monarch, or princely ruler of the Kshatriya varna.

The title has a long history in the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia, as it is found in the Rigveda. It can also be used as a name for non-royal Indians.

In Pakistan, Raja is still used by many Muslim Rajput clans as hereditary titles. Raja is also used as a name by Hindus and Sikhs.

[[Raja (disambiguation)]]

A Raja is a type of monarch. This is sometimes spelled "Rajah".

Raja may also refer to:

In popular culture:

Rajais the given name or surname of:

[[Rajah (disambiguation)]]

Rajah may refer to:

[[Pushim]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Japanese singers, Reggae musicians, People from Osaka

PUSHIM is a Japanese reggae singer. Her real name is Paku Pushin. She was born in Osaka on November 16, 1975, and started to sing in 1995. She released her first single in 1999. She has strong and deep voice. Her younger sister, YOUNGSHIM, is also a reggae singer.

[[Headset]]

CATEGORIES: Audio technology

A headset is a headphone with a microphone. People can listen to sound with headphone and can record sound with a microphone. A headset is easy to use because it can be used without hands, just like a telephone. A person only needs to put the headset on his/her head and then can talk with a mic. Many people use headsets at the computer so they can converse and type easily. Headsets normally have only one speaker like a telephone, but also can be made with speakers for both ears.

[[Endoscopy]]

CATEGORIES: Medical tests

Endoscopy means to look inside. This often means looking inside the body for medical reasons with an endoscope.

An endoscope is a medical instrument that is made to see parts inside a patient's body. This has the advantage that observations and certain operations can be done without opening up the body. Whatever precautions are taken, an open body part is always at risk of infection.

The endoscope has a long tube to enter the patient's body and a tiny camera or lens attached to the front of this tube. It is usually inserted into patient's nose, mouth, or anus, so surgeons can see what is going on. If necessary, various actions can be taken.

[[Supercomputer]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

A supercomputer is a computer with great speed and memory. This kind of computer can do jobs faster than any other computer of its generation. They are usually thousands of times faster than ordinary personal computers made at that time. Supercomputers can do arithmetic jobs very fast, so they are used for weather forecasting, code-breaking, genetic analysis and other jobs that need many calculations. When new computers of all classes become more powerful, new ordinary computers are made with powers that only supercomputers had in the past, while new supercomputers continue to outclass them. 

Electrical engineers make supercomputers that link many thousands of microprocessors.

[[Hydrogen car]]

CATEGORIES: Vehicles

A hydrogen car is a vehicle that uses hydrogen as its fuel for motive power. A Hydrogen car does not have to be a car, it can be any transportation vehicle that uses hydrogen in a similar way, like an aircraft.

[[Standard-definition television]]

CATEGORIES: Television technology

Standard-Definition Television is a kind of television system that provides lower resolution than HDTV and higher resolution than analog TV does. 

The word 'SDTV' is generally used at the digital television broadcasting system that has a similar or litle bit higher state of resolution to the 'analog television system'. Digital broadcasting system uses digital signals when they receive sound and movie. It is compared to analog TV that uses analog signals.

[[Thermocouple]]

CATEGORIES: Measuring tools, Temperature, Thermometers

A thermocouple, TC for short, is a device that converts heat directly into electricity. A thermocouple can also work in reverse - using an electric current to transform into heat as well as cold.

[[Control engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

Control engineering is the engineering field that focuses on mathematical modeling of dynamical systems, and uses control theory to create controllers that cause the systems to behave in some desired manner. Modern control engineering is closely related to electrical, electronic, and computer engineering.  As engineering continues to develop, control engineering is often wanted.

In most cases, control engineers make use of feedback when designing control systems. For example, in an automobile with sail control, the machine's speed is continuously checked and fed back to the system, which then adjusts the motor's spin power on the fly. Recently, control systems are also used in nanotechnology. In chemical engineering, control engineering is known as process control. Many advancements in science, finance, and even human action, can be attributed to control engineering. 

Many control systems rely on feedback. However, there are also control systems that work without feedback. Such a system is known as an open-loop control. An open-loop controller, also called a non-feedback controller, relies only on the model and the input signal fed to the system.  An example of open-loop control can be found in washing machines, which work by running pre-programmed cycles but, most importantly, do not rely on any measurements of the speed of the barrel or water volume to adjust the machine on the fly.

[[DKNY]]

CATEGORIES: American clothing companies, 1989 establishments in New York (state)

DKNY (Donna Karan New York) is the label of fashion designer Donna Karan.

[[Lanett, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Lanett is a city in Chambers County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 7,897. Lanett is located in eastern Alabama, on the Chattahoochee River, northeast of Montgomery. One of the major industries is cotton milling. The city's name is derived from Lanier and Bennett, founders of the West Point Pepperell Co.

[[La Fayette, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

LaFayette is a city in Chambers County, Alabama, United States.  It is 47 miles (76 km) northwest of Columbus, Georgia. It is the county seat of Chambers County. In 1900, 1,629 people lived here, and in 1910, 1,632 people lived here. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 3,234.

[[Leeds, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Leeds is a city in Jefferson, St. Clair, and Shelby Counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. As of the 2000 census, 10,455 people lived there.

[[Charles Barkley]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, African-American basketball players, Living people, Houston Rockets players, Philadelphia 76ers players, Phoenix Suns players, Sportspeople from Alabama, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

Charles Wade Barkley (born February 20, 1963) is an American former professional basketball player. Nicknamed "Sir Charles" for his aggressive and outspoken behavior, and "The Round Mound of Rebound" for his unusual build and talent as a player, Barkley established himself as one of the National Basketball Association's (NBA) most dominating power forwards.

For a power forward, Barkley had an extremely versatile offensive game. He was not considered a great player at the defensive end. He is referred to as Chuck Barkley by many of his friends.

Barkley had many nicknames over the course of his college and pro career, making him one of the basketball players, and persons, with the most nicknames. Some of the other nicknames include "The Chuckster" and "The Chuck Wagon". Barkley is regarded as one of the best rebounders in the history of the game.

Many people view him as the greatest player who did not win an NBA championship during his career, although others argue for players such as Karl Malone, John Stockton and Patrick Ewing. Often considered the best power forward in the league (NBA), people did not agree with his totalitarian views. He is an analyst on the television show Inside the NBA. The program features host Ernie Johnson with analysts Kenny Smith and Shaquille O'Neal.

[[William C. Oates]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 births, 1910 deaths, American generals, American lawyers, American military personnel of the Spanish-American War, Governors of Alabama, Military personnel of the American Civil War, United States representatives from Alabama, US Democratic Party politicians

William Calvin Oates (either November 30 or December 1, 1833 – September 9, 1910) was a Confederate colonel during the American Civil War. He became a brigadier general in 1898, and also fought in the Spanish–American War.

In between he was a Democratic member of the Alabama House of Representatives from 1870 to 1872, a member of the United States House of Representatives for Alabama from 1881 to 1894, and Governor of Alabama from 1894 to 1896. 

William C. Oates was born in Pike County, Alabama. He studied law and passed the bar examination, opening a practice in Abbeville. Oates died in Montgomery, Alabama, and was buried there in Oakwood Cemetery. 

[[Walter Jones (American football)]]

CATEGORIES: African American players of American football, American football defensive tackles, Seattle Seahawks players, Sportspeople from Alabama, 1974 births, Living people

Walter Junior Jones (born January 19, 1974) is an American football offensive tackle for the Seattle Seahawks team in the National Football League. He was selected by the Seattle Seahawks with the sixth overall pick in the first round of the 1997 NFL Draft, a pick obtained from the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in a trade. Jones left Florida State University prior to his senior season after being selected to the second team College Football All-America Team. On April 29, 2010, He announced on his Twitter account that he was retiring.

[[George T. Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1824 births, 1901 deaths, Confederate Army generals

George Thomas Anderson (February 3, 1824 – April 4, 1901) was a general in the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. Nicknamed "Tige," Anderson was noted as one of Robert E. Lee's hardest-fighting subordinates. He was wounded at the Battle of Gettysburg.

After the war he worked as a policeman and a tax collector. He is buried in the Edgemont Cemetery, Anniston, Alabama.

[[William Clark Falkner]]

CATEGORIES: 1825 births, 1889 deaths, American poets, American military people, Writers from Tennessee, Writers from Mississippi, Businesspeople from Tennessee, Businesspeople from Mississippi, People from Pontotoc, Mississippi

William Clark Falkner (July 6, 1825 or 1826 – November 6, 1889) was a soldier, lawyer, politician, businessman, and author in northern Mississippi.  He is most notable for the influence he had on the work of his great-grandson, author William Faulkner.

Although born in Knox County, Tennessee, Falkner lived with his family in Missouri and Pontotoc, Mississippi before settling at the age of 17 in Ripley, Tippah County, Mississippi.  He served in the Mexican-American War and, when the American Civil War broke out, he raised a company of men and was made colonel in the Second Mississippi Infantry of the Confederate Army.

[[Islamic terrorism]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic terrorism

Islamic terrorism is a kind of terrorism. The terrorists claim their religion, Islam, or how they interpret it is their motivation. 

Some Islamic scholarsApril 2013 say that it is wrong to kill innocent people. Islamic terrorist groups include Al-Qaeda, Boko Haram, and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. However, there are hundreds of such groups and many more terrorist attacks attributed to them. However, it is stated in the Qur'an that "You must not go too far; Allah loves not those who do.""You must resist them until the persecution is done away, and prayers are only to Allah; if they cease fighting, you must not invade anyone but the unrighteous."

[[Electric vehicle]]

CATEGORIES: Electric vehicles

An electric vehicle is a vehicle that uses electricity to move. Its wheels are driven by electric motors.

Electric vehicles were one of the first kinds that did not use horse or human power. Electric trains and cars were built in the 1830's, and in the early 1900's there were more electric cars than gasoline-powered cars. But cars powered by gasoline or diesel fuel become the most common kind of car for most of the last 100 years.

Electric vehicles have long been used in some special cases, such as forklifts used inside a building, golf carts, trolley bus or certain vehicles used around airplanes at an airport. Early in the 21st century people are using more electric and hybrid vehicles again as a way to reduce pollution and use less gasoline.

[[Daniel Weisiger Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1872 deaths, Confederate Army generals

Daniel Weisiger Adams (May 1, 1821 – June 13, 1872) was a noted lawyer and a brigadier general in the Confederate Army during the American Civil War.

[[Lynchburg, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Virginia

Lynchburg is an independent city in the U.S. state of Virginia. It is in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains along the banks of the James River.  Lynchburg is known as the "City of Seven Hills" and "The Hill City". It is sometimes called "A City Unto Itself" because of the city's historical avoidance of State and Federal entanglements.

At the 2010 census, 75,568 people lived in Lynchburg.

[[Electronic engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics

Electronic engineering is an engineering discipline that investigates the use of electricity and magnetism.  Electronic engineers are concerned with such processes as; the use of radio waves, the design of electronic circuits, the design of computer systems, and the development of control systems such as aircraft autopilots and other embedded systems.

The term electronic engineering started to emerge increasingly in the late 1950s.  Before World War II, electronic engineering was most commonly known as a 'radio engineering'.  At that time, studying radio engineering at a university was part of a physics degree.  Later, as other electronic devices were developed, the field broadened to include radar, television, audio systems, Hi-Fi and later computers and microprocessors.  In the mid to late 1950s, the term radio engineering gradually gave way to the name 'electronic engineering', which then became a stand-alone university degree subject.

Engineers must study the sciences of physics and mathematics as these help to understand systems and make them better.  Today most engineering work involves the use of computers and it is commonplace to use computer-aided technologies when designing electronics systems.  Some electronic engineers work in robotics.  

[[George Armstrong Custer]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War generals, People from Ohio, 1839 births, 1876 deaths

 George Armstrong Custer (December 5, 1839 – June 25, 1876)  was a United States Army officer and cavalry commander in the American Civil War and the Indian Wars. At the start of the Civil War, Custer was a cadet at the United States Military Academy at West Point, and his class's graduation was accelerated so that they could enter the war. Custer graduated last in his class and served at the First Battle of Bull Run as a staff officer for Major General George B. McClellan in the Army of the Potomac's 1862 Peninsula Campaign. Early in the Gettysburg Campaign, Custer's association with cavalry commander Major General Alfred Pleasonton earned him a brevet promotion from First Lieutenant to Brigadier General of United States Volunteers at the age of 23.

[[Irvine, North Ayrshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Ayrshire

Irvine (Gaelic: Irbhinn) is a coastal new town in North Ayrshire, Scotland. 

[[North Ayrshire]]

CATEGORIES: North Ayrshire, 1996 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s establishments in Scotland

North Ayrshire (Gaelic: Siorrachd Inbhir Àir a Tuath, ʃir̴əxg̊ iɲiɾʲˈaːɾʲ ə t̪uə) is one of 32 council areas of Scotland. It borders onto the areas of Inverclyde to the north, Renfrewshire to the north east, and East Ayrshire, and South Ayrshire to the East and South respectively.

The area was created in 1996 as a successor to the district of Cunninghame which covered exactly the same boundaries. The mainland portion of the council area has historically been part of a greater County of Ayr, however it also contains the islands of Arran, Great Cumbrae and Little Cumbrae in the lower Firth of Clyde. All the islands were previously in the County of Bute.

[[Charles Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2015 deaths, British Roman Catholics, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United Kingdom, Deaths from hemorrhage, Disease-related deaths in Scotland, Former Liberal Democrats MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for Scottish constituencies, Leaders of the Liberal Democrats (UK), People from Inverness, Scottish Christians, Scottish journalists, Social Democratic Party MPs (UK), UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015

Charles Peter Kennedy (25 November 1959 – 1 June 2015) was a British politician.

From 9 August 1999 until 7 January 2006, he was the leader of the Liberal Democrats, the third largest political party in the United Kingdom.

In the 1983 General Election he stood for the Ross, Cromarty & Skye constituency, then held by the Conservative MP and Minister, Hamish Gray. In a shock result, Kennedy was elected (for the SDP): at 23, he became the youngest MP in the House of Commons. Ambitious and popular, he quickly emerged as a potential party leader. In 1994, by which time the SDP and the Liberal Party had merged, he became President of the Liberal Democrats - a position he held for four years. In 1999, on the resignation of Paddy Ashdown, Kennedy was elected party leader.

He took the party through two General Elections. However, he faced criticism for his laid-back leadership style, and there was considerable speculation regarding his alcohol consumption. From December 2005, some within the party were questioning his leadership and calling for a leadership election. On 5 January 2006, Kennedy was informed that ITN would be reporting that he had received treatment for a drinking problem. Kennedy decided to pre-empt the broadcast and admit his drinking problem openly. He called a leadership election at the same time, stating that he intended to stand. The admission of a drinking problem seriously damaged his standing within the parliamentary party. As support for him amongst this key group ebbed away, Kennedy resigned as leader on 7 January, saying that he would not be standing in the leadership election. Deputy leader Sir Menzies Campbell took over as interim leader and was elected as leader on 2 March 2006.

Kennedy was born in Inverness, Scotland. He was married to Sarah Gurling from 2002 until they divorced in 2010 and has a son.

Kennedy died on 1 June 2015 at his home in Fort William from haemorrhage due to his alcoholism, aged 55.

[[East Ayrshire]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas, Ayrshire

East Ayrshire (Siorrachd Inbhir Àir an Ear) is one of 32 council area of Scotland. It borders North Ayrshire, East Renfrewshire, South Lanarkshire, South Ayrshire and Dumfries and Galloway. With South Ayrshire and the mainland areas of North Ayrshire, it formed the county of Ayrshire.

The area was formed in 1996, from the former Kilmarnock and Loudoun and Cumnock and Doon Valley districts.

[[Digital Multimedia Broadcasting]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications

Digital multimedia broadcasting, or DMB, is a technology that allows to send digital signals to mobile devices, such as mobile phones. This makes it possible to listen to radio or watch television on such devices.

This technology was developed to replace earthly analog radio broadcasting. But, the technology can include more data in limited electric waves. It can transmit not only sound data that original object, but also DVD level movie data.

DMB is based on Eureka 147 DAB standard which is the European standard, and similar competing technologies is the mobile TV standard, DVB-H. The earthly DMB is decided to the ETSI standard (TS 102 427 and TS 102 428). Now, Republic of Korea can exercise for source of the DMB technology, the satellite DMB broadcast first began in Japan than in the Republic of Korea. In the March 13, 2004, TU Media playing a leading role in business and satellite DMB insert the world's first satellite for with Japan's partner, MBCo DMB 'hanbyeol'. However, In Republic of Korea, selection process for operators was long and put off service, the MBCo in Japan became first DMB country to start the full service all 40 of the channel from 19 October 2004.

[[Retrovirus]]

CATEGORIES: Viruses

A retrovirus is any virus which copies itself as part of the cell's DNA by reverse transcribing its RNA.  Since the cell cannot proofread the step in which RNA is converted back to DNA, errors often go unnoticed.  This changes the exact sequence of a retrovirus' RNA frequently.  This makes it harder for retroviruses to be attacked by drugs.

HIV is a retrovirus, which makes it very difficult to overcome using drugs.

[[Hurricane Gilbert]]

CATEGORIES: Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes, Retired tropical cyclone names, Hurricanes in Mexico, Deadly storms, 1988 in the United States, Hurricanes in the United States, 20th century in Venezuela, 20th centuy in Haiti, 20th century in the Dominican Republic, 20th century in Jamaica, 1980s in Mexico, 1980s in Texas, 1980s in South America, Hurricanes in Jamaica

Hurricane Gilbert was a very powerful tropical cyclone which caused much damage to the Caribbean, Mexico and parts of South Texas in the 1988 Atlantic hurricane season. Before Hurricane Wilma in 2005, Hurricane Gilbert was the strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic in terms of Barometric pressure.

This hurricane was similar to Hurricane Beulah and Hurricane Allen, but Hurricane Gilbert was unique in many ways. Gilbert killed 341 people and left $5.5 billion in damage.

[[Aberdour]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fife

Aberdour is a town in Fife, Scotland. It is between Dalgety Bay and Burntisland.

[[Kirkcaldy]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fife

Kirkcaldy is a large town in Fife, Scotland. It is on the north shore of the Firth of Forth, almost opposite Edinburgh.

[[Rosyth]]

CATEGORIES: Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Port cities and towns of Scotland, Towns in Fife

Rosyth is a town in Fife, Scotland. It is between Inverkeithing and Dunfermline.

[[Faro, Portugal]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Portugal, Municipalities of Portugal

Faro is the capital city of Algarve, Portugal. The city has a population of 58,305 people.

[[Homogeneity]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

Homogeneity is a word that means being similar. It is often applied to mixtures.  Mixtures that are homogeneous are those where it is not possible to tell the components they are made of by looking at them. The mixture will also look the same everywhere. Pure substances are homogeneous.

[[Rhea (bird)]]

CATEGORIES: Ratites, Flightless birds, Struthioniformes

The rheas are flightless birds of the genus Rhea, native to South America. They are ratites, which means they are large flightless birds with no keel to their breastbone or sternum.

[[Edward Porter Alexander]]

CATEGORIES: 1835 births, 1910 deaths, Confederate Army generals

Edward Porter Alexander (May 26, 1835 – April 28, 1910) was an engineer, an officer in the U.S. Army, a Confederate general in the American Civil War, and later a railroad executive, planter, and author. 

[[Washington, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Georgia (U.S. state), County seats in Georgia

Washington (originally called Heard's Fort) is a city in Wilkes County, Georgia, United States. The population was 4,295 at the 2000 census. The city is the county seat of Wilkes County.

[[Araluen, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Araluen (35) is a small town 27 km south of Braidwood, New South Wales. It is in the Southern Tablelands area of New South Wales, Australia. It is in Queanbeyan-Palerang Regional Council local government area. It is on the banks of Araluen Creek. The creek joins the Deua River. 

[[Bill Henson]]

CATEGORIES: Photographers, People from Melbourne, 1955 births, Living people, Artists from Victoria (Australia)

Bill Henson (born 1955 in Melbourne) is an Australian art photographer. Bill Henson's works provoked a controversy; at one of his exhibitions, police found images of nude teenagers. Police first wanted to charge Henson for child pornography, but then did not. Instead, the exhibition was rated "parental guidance". This means that people under 16 should be accompanied by their parents.

[[Kempen, Germany]]

Kempen is a town in Germany. It is about 30 km northwest of Düsseldorf, and 20 km east of Venlo. It was once a center of textile making, silk, cotton, and linen.

Kempen can also refer to a different town that used to be part of Germany but in 1920 was given to Poland and now has a Polish name.

[[Kakapo]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of New Zealand, Parrots, Flightless birds

The Kakapo (Strigops habroptilus) is the only parrot which cannot fly. It lives in grassland, scrubland and coastal regions of New Zealand, but is now so rare they can only be seen on protected offshore islands. Kakapo means 'night parrot' in the Maori language.

Kakapos are most active at night (nocturnal), and like to be alone. To keep other kakapos out of their territory, they make a 'skraaarking' sound. The Kakapo can live for about 60 years.

[[Stud poker]]

CATEGORIES: Poker

Stud poker is a variation of poker where players are typically dealt a total of five or seven cards, with the best five card poker hand winning (in situations where more than one player has the same poker hand, like a flush or straight, the winning hand is determined by whichever players has the highest one).

Stud poker has neither community cards nor blinds. Instead, each player at the table must ante first, and then is dealt two cards face down (hole cards) and one card face up. In typical stud games, the player with the lowest card showing must pay the ‘bring in,’ an amount relative to the limits, which starts off the action.

The bring in is typically a fraction of the limits, (for example, the bring in for a $1/2 stud game may be $.25), with play then continuing clockwise around the table, where players have the choice of folding, calling the bring in, or making the bet ‘complete’ (in our example, completing the bet to $1).  Once a bring in has been completed, it can be raised by a subsequent player, doubling the amount to twice the completed bet.

Each player remaining in the hand is then dealt another card face up, with the betting beginning with the player showing the highest two cards and proceeding clockwise around the table.  Again, players can fold, call, or raise the bet.  In a five card stud game, players are dealt two hole cards facedown, then two cards face up, with the fifth card being dealt facedown.  In a seven card stud game, players are dealt two hole cards facedown, then four cards face up, with the seventh card being dealt facedown.

Betting takes place between each dealt card and generally becomes a higher amount after the fourth card dealt.  

Each round of betting is typically referred to by the number of cards a player has in front of them.  After the initial deal, players are considered to be betting on ‘third street’, represented by having three cards in front of them.  After the fourth card is dealt, players would then be on ‘fourth street’, and so on.  Stud poker is generally played as a limit game. 

[[Gundagai, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Gundagai is a town in New South Wales, Australia. It is a small town, but authors often write about Gundagai. It is seen to be the typical Australian country town. It is built on the banks of the Murrumbidgee River. It is near the Muniong and Yambla Mountain ranges. Gundagai is 390 km south-west of Sydney. Gundagai is part of the  Gundagai Shire Council Local Government Area.  In 2006 there were 1,998 people living in Gundagai.

The bushranger, Captain Moonlight, is buried in the Gundagai Cemetery.

[[Parkes, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales, 1873 establishments, 1870s establishments in Australia

Parkes is a city in New South Wales, Australia. In 2006 there were 9,826 people living in Parkes. It is the centre and main city of the Local Government Area of Parkes Shire.  Parkes is on the main Australian transcontinental railway line between Sydney and Perth. The Newell Highway between Victoria and Queensland goes through the city.

[[Weddings Parties Anything]]

CATEGORIES: Australian rock bands, Folk music groups, Musical groups from Melbourne, Musical groups established in 1984, 1984 establishments in Australia, Musical groups disestablished in 1998, 1998 disestablishments, 20th century disestablishments in Australia

Weddings Parties Anything (sometimes called WPA and Weddoes) were an Australian folk rock band. They started in 1984 in Melbourne, Victoria. The band stopped playing together in 1998. They took their name from The Clash song "Revolution Rock". Music expert Billy Pinnell said their first album Scorn of the Women was the best first Australian rock album since Skyhooks' album Living in the '70s.

[[Mink]]

CATEGORIES: Mustelids

Minks are small, short-legged members of the Mustelid family. The mink is an aggressive mammal that is adapted to a semi-aquatic life. Mink live in swamps, rivers, marshes, lakes and streams in North America, Europe, and the far west of Asia. Mink have a life span of about 8 to 10 years. The common name 'mink' includes animals in two different genera on two different continents.

[[Id, ego, and super-ego]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

The Id, ego, and super-ego are ideas created by Sigmund Freud. They are three concepts used to explain the way the human mind works.

Freud describes the human mind as interaction of id, ego, super-ego. The ego, and to some extent the super-ego, is conscious or on the surface. The id remains unconscious. Together they make up the personality.

According to this model of the psyche, the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends; the ego is the organized realistic part; and the super-ego plays the critical and moralising role.

The id, ego and super-ego are functions of the mind, not parts of the brain. They do not correspond one-to-one with actual structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience.

[[MTV Unplugged in New York]]

CATEGORIES: Nirvana albums, 1993 albums, MTV Unplugged albums

MTV Unplugged in New York is a live album by the American rock band Nirvana. It was recorded on November 18, 1993 as a part of the MTV Unplugged television series, which many artists and bands perform on with acoustic instruments instead of electric ones. It was released on November 1, 1994, six months after the band had broken up because of the death of Kurt Cobain, who was the lead singer and guitarist.

It was unusual compared to other artists on the MTV Unplugged series, because Nirvana played mostly their less-famous songs and cover versions of other artists' songs. Most artists on the program played mainly their hits.

Four singles were released from the album. This was unusual because it was a live album. The singles were "About a Girl", "The Man Who Sold the World", "Where Did You Sleep Last Night", and "Lake of Fire". All of these except for "About a Girl" were covers.

[[List of Roman emperors]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of heads of state, Roman Emperors

This is a list of the Roman emperors:

Note there were also numerous usurpers ("fake" emperors) including:

[[Salicaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Malpighiales, Plant families

Salicaceae is a family of flowering plants. Each plant has either staminate or pistillate catkins. The flowers have no petals or sepals. Each has a small scale-like bract below it. These developing catkins on willows form the well-known "pussy-willow" branches.

Except for two species of Populas (Cottonwood), all the members of Salicaceae in the Bay Area are of the genera Salix (Willows).

[[Krist Novoselic]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, American bass guitarists, American political activists, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Nirvana members, People from Compton, California, American bloggers

Krist Novoselic (born Krist Anthony Novoselic II May 16, 1965) is an American rock musician. He is most famous for being the bass player for the grunge band Nirvana with Kurt Cobain and Dave Grohl. When Cobain died in 1994, Nirvana broke up. Grohl moved on to form the band Foo Fighters, and Novoselic has been mostly involved in politics. However, he was also the bassist for the American punk band Flipper between 2006 and 2009. Novoselic was born in Compton, California. He was raised in San Pedro, Los Angeles.

[[The Hush Sound]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American music groups

The Hush Sound is an indie rock band originally known as The Hush. They changed their name when they found out that there was a rapper called "The Hush." 

The Hush Sound has released three albums. Their first album, So Sudden, was released in 2005. Their second album was released in 2006, titled Like Vines. Goodbye Blues, their third and latest album, and was recorded in released in March 2008.

The Hush Sound is currently on a break.

[[Piggy bank]]

CATEGORIES: Containers, Banks, Toys

A piggy bank is used to collect coins. It is shaped like pig and comes in various colors and sizes. It is often used by parents to teach their children how to save money. It is not certain about why it is a called piggy bank and how it was started.

Some people say that "Piggy" was "Pygg" at first. Pygg is a clay that was used to make a bowl or vase to store salt or money.

da:Sparebøsse#SparegrisMy piggy bank was gifted by my father two years ago. Every time I do some gardening work with my father , he give me ₹10.Now I have collected over ₹3,999 in it.I is very good to save the money to buy something on your own.I recently bought some items with my own money.Overall piggy banks are very useful.

[[Doenjang]]

CATEGORIES: Korea, Korean food

Doenjang is a Korean soybean paste. It is salty and savory, and is used to season many kinds of Korean food. It is similar to Miso, Japanese soybean paste.

[[Ioannina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Ioannina  is a Greek town in the northwest of Greece, in Ipiros district. Ioannina is the capital of Ioannina prefecture and Ipiros periphery. 67,384 people live there. Ioannina is built on the bank of Pamvotida lake. Around Ioannina there are many tall mountains. Beside the town is Mitsikeli mountain. In the east of Ioannina is the Pindos range. 

[[Lamia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Lamia is a Greek city in the center of Greece. According to the 2001 census, 50,551 people lived there. Lamia is build at the foot of the hill on the top of which there is a castle. During the Middle Ages Lamia was named Zitouni but today is named with its ancient name, Lamia. Around Lamia there is a big plain, so Lamia is an agricultural city. At the side of plain there are many tall mountains. They are named Timphristos, Oiti and Othris. 

[[Punjab Hill States agency]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 establishments in Asia, British India, Indian princely states, 1930s establishments in India

The Punjab Hill States Agency was an administrative unit of British India. The agency was created in 1936, and was made up a number of princely states in the present-day Indian states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.

In 1901 the Punjab States Agency was created, in 1936 the hilly parts of this became the Punjab Hill States Agency. The states came under British rule after the Anglo-Nepalese War of 1814-16, and were known as the Simla Hill States. They later became part of the British province of Punjab, apart from Tehri-Garhwal, which was part of the United Provinces.

After Indian Independence in 1947, the states acceded to the Government of India, most of the states became the new state of Himachal Pradesh, with Tehri-Garhwal becoming part of Uttar Pradesh. In 2000, the northern portion of Uttar Pradesh, including the former state of Tehri-Garhwal, became the new Indian state of Uttarakhand.

[[Patiala and East Punjab States Union]]

CATEGORIES: History of Punjab

The Patiala and East Punjab States Union (PEPSU) was a former state of India. It was created out of the merger of several Punjabi princely states on 15 July 1948, formally becoming a state of India in 1950. The capital and principal city was Patiala, and the last Maharaja of Patiala, Yadvindra Singh, served as Governor of the state during its short existence. The Governor was appointed by the President of India, but the people of the state also elected a 60-member state assembly, first elected on 6 January 1952. The Congress Party won 26 seats and the Akali Dal 19 seats.

On 1 November 1956, PEPSU was merged into Punjab state. Part of the former state of PEPSU, including the southeastern portion of the state around Jind and the Narnaul enclave, presently lie within the state of Haryana, which was separated from Punjab on 1 November 1966.

[[West Punjab]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Punjab

West Punjab was a former province of Pakistan which existed from 1947 to 1955. The province covered an area of 160622,including much of the current Punjab province and the Islamabad Capital Territory, but excluding the former princely states of Bahawalpur. The capital was the city of Lahore and the province was mad up of four divisions (Lahore, Sargodha, Multan and Rawalpindi). The province was bordered by the Indian states of East Punjab to the east, the princely state of Bahawalpur to the south, the provinces of Balochistan and Sindh to the southwest, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to the northwest, and Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Occupied Kashmir to the northeast.

[[Multan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Multan is a city in the Punjab province of Pakistan. It is the capital of the Multan District. Called the "City of the Saints", the history of the city goes back more than 5,000 years.

[[Prachanda]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Nepalese politicians, Living people, Prime Ministers of Nepal

Prachanda (born Pushpa Kumal Dahal on December 11, 1954) is the former Prime Minister of Nepal. He is one of the most influential personality in the nepalese political scenario. He is president of Nepal Communist Party (Maoist). He has been two times elected as a Prime Minister Of Nepal.

[[River Tay]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Scotland

River Tay is a river in Scotland. It starts in Loch Tay, and opens up into the North Sea at the Firth of Tay. It discharges more water than the Thames and the Severn put together.

It is the longest river in Scotland and the sixth longest in the United Kingdom. It starts in the Scottish Highlands, and moves east until it goes through Perth. Its mouth is wide, and is called the Firth of Tay on the east coast. Dundee is on the north bank of the Firth.

The Tay's very wide mouth is spanned by a long rail bridge, the replacement for the one which fell in the Tay Bridge disaster. The Tay Road Bridge was opened in 1966.

[[Morina]]

CATEGORIES: Dipsacales

Morina is a genus of the Dipsacaceae family.

[[Paul Hegarty]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers

Paul Hegarty (born July 25, 1954 in Edinburgh) is a former Scottish footballer who is famous for being the captain of Dundee United during their best years in the 1980s. He currently manages Livingston.

[[Jointer plane]]

CATEGORIES: Woodworking tools

A Jointing plane is used to sharpen the edges of boards so they will fit together.It has a 2-3/8" wide blade and is 18-24" long and hand used.There is also a shorter version of the jointer plane known as the fore plane which is around 18 inches (457mm) long.

[[Hurricane Andrew]]

CATEGORIES: Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes, 1992 Atlantic hurricane season, Retired tropical cyclone names, 1990s in the Bahamas, 1992 in the United States, 1990s in Florida, 20th century in Louisiana, Hurricanes in Florida, August events, Hurricanes in Louisiana

Although the 1992 Atlantic hurricane season was below average, Hurricane Andrew was the exception to that. This hurricane blasted the Bahamas, southeast Florida and south central Louisiana, taking a path extremely similar to Hurricane Betsy, which also struck southern Florida and Louisiana. However, unlike Betsy, Andrew did not make flooding in New Orleans. Contrary to typical, damage from Hurricane Andrew was caused almost entirely by high winds rather than storm surge in Florida and Louisiana. This storm caused between $23 billion and $37 billion in damage (1992 USD) and between 56 and 68 fatalities, making Andrew the costliest Atlantic hurricane to hit the United States.

However, Hurricane Katrina would later surpass Andrew in official damage amounts.

[[Hurricane Gordon (1994)]]

CATEGORIES: Hurricanes in North Carolina, Deadly storms, 1994 in North America, Hurricanes in the United States, Hurricanes in Haiti, Hurricanes in Florida

Hurricane Gordon was a very damaging tropical storm for the Caribbean, Florida and parts of North Carolina. The storm was very slow moving on its path over the Caribbean. This storm killed over 1100 people (estimates are between 500-2300 people dead through Haiti and the central Caribbean islands, including Jamaica and Cuba). The storm's strange motion was making Hurricane Gordon hard to forecast where it would actually go and where it would reach land. Hurricane Gordon was the last storm of the inactive 1994 Season and the second most costly of the 1994 season, even though the storm was a hurricane for only a few hours.

[[Hurricane Diana (1984)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 in the United States, Category 4 Atlantic hurricanes, Hurricanes in North Carolina

Hurricane Diana was a Category 4 tropical cyclone that hit the United States east coast in 1984. Diana was a very unusual storm. forecasters had many problems saying when and where it would strike. 

In September of the 1984 Atlantic hurricane season, Diana became an intense tropical cyclone. She had highest winds of 136 during its peak. The storm made landfall in southeast North Carolina with winds between 88 to 100 mph. The storm itself did not kill anyone,  although three deaths were caused by it. Hurricane Diana was the first major hurricane in eastern North Carolina in almost three decades. Although it was a Category 4 hurricane it caused only $65 million in damage.

[[Abbie Hoffman]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 1989 deaths, American anarchists, American atheists, American political activists, Drug-related suicides in the United States, Jewish activists, Jewish American writers, Jewish atheists, People from Worcester, Massachusetts, People with bipolar disorder, Writers from Massachusetts, Writers from New York

Abbot Howard "Abbie" Hoffman (November 30, 1936 – April 12, 1989) was an American social and political activist. 

He was one of the "Chicago Eight" along with along with Jerry Rubin, David Dellinger, Tom Hayden, Rennie Davis, John Froines, Lee Weiner, and Bobby Seale, who were arrested for demonstrating at the 1968 Democratic National Convention.

At Woodstock in 1969, Hoffman ran onstage to interrupt The Who's performance. He tried to speak against the jailing of John Sinclair of the White Panther Party.  Pete Townshend was adjusting his amplifier between songs and turned around to see Hoffman. Townshend cursed at Hoffman and tried to knock him off the stage. 

He was arrested after a conviction for selling cocaine. He was diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 1980. He committed suicide by an overdose of phenobarbital and alcohol.

Hoffman was raised in the Jewish faith in Worcester, MA but later identified as an atheist.

[[Neil Patrick Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American comedians, American child actors, American LGBT people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, American voice actors, Emmy Award winning actors, LGBT actors, LGBT writers, Actors from Albuquerque, New Mexico, Tony Award winning actors

Neil Patrick Harris (born June 15, 1973) is an American Golden Globe and Emmy-nominated actor and singer. Notable roles in his career include the title character of Doogie Howser, M.D., Barney Stinson in How I Met Your Mother, Col. Carl Jenkins in Starship Troopers, Dr. Horrible of the web series Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog, and as a fictionalized version of himself in Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle, Host From Genius Junior and the sequel Harold & Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay.

Harris is openly gay at first. He confirmed this in November 2006 by saying "...I am happy to dispel any rumors or misconceptions and am quite proud to say that I am a very content gay man living my life to the fullest and feel most fortunate to be working with wonderful people in the business I love. On September 8, 2014, Harris announced on his Twitter page that David Burtka and he were married over the weekend. Harris has twins, Gideon Scott Burtka-Harris and Harper Grace Burtka-Harris.

[[A Girl like Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Rihanna albums, Pop albums, Reggae albums, R&B albums

A Girl like Me is the second studio album released by Barbadian singer Rihanna. The album was released April 19, 2006 by Def Jam and SRP. Singles included "SOS", "Unfaithful", and "Break It Off". The album features more of a pop and R&B feel to it as well as staying true to Rihanna's reggae sound.

[[Todd Grisham]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Mississippi, American sports commentators

Todd Grisham (born January 9, 1976) is an American presenter/announcer working for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) on its ECW brand as the play-by-play commentator and is the host for Fox Soccer Channel's Major League Soccer broadcasts.  

[[Elijah Burke]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, African-American people, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Jacksonville, Florida, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Elijah Burke (born May 24, 1978) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for wrestling for World Wrestling Entertainment on its ECW brand under his real name and for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling under the ring name "The Pope" D'Angelo Dinero. He currently works for Ohio Valley Wrestling.

[[Matt Hasselbeck]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Green Bay Packers players, Seattle Seahawks players, Tennessee Titans players, Indianapolis Colts players, People from Boulder, Colorado, Sportspeople from Colorado, American Christians, American football quarterbacks

Matthew Hasselbeck (born September 25, 1975) is an American football quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League. He was drafted by the Green Bay Packers in the sixth round of the 1998 NFL Draft. He spent the majority of his career with the Seattle Seahawks. He played college football at Boston College.

[[NFL Draft]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League

The NFL Draft is a sports draft held every year. In the draft National Football League (NFL) teams select new players to be added to their team's roster. These new players usually are those ending their time playing football in college. 

[[Bull shark]]

CATEGORIES: Sharks

The Bull shark (Carcharhinus leucas), or Zambezi shark, is a species of shark of the genus Carcharhinus.

The shark grows to a maximum length of 11.5 feet (3.5 metres), but is usually 7.3-7.8 feet (2.2-2.3 metres) long. It is found in tropical and subtropical coastal waters worldwide, as well as river systems and freshwater lakes.

This species is listed as Near Threatened by the IUCN, and is considered to be the third most dangerous sharks in the world.

[[Alan Shepard]]

CATEGORIES: American astronauts, Apollo astronauts, Deaths from leukemia, Scientists from New Hampshire, 1923 births, 1998 deaths

Alan Shepard (November 18, 1923 - July 21, 1998) was an American astronaut. He was the first American to travel into space. He was born in East Derry, New Hampshire. He received a Bachelor of Science at Naval Academy in 1944, graduated at Naval Testpilot School in 1951 and he earned a Master of Arts at the Naval War College in 1957.

On May 5, 1961, Shepard flew into space in the Mercury spacecraft. This was powered by a Redstone rocket.

He made another space flight as spacecraft commander (person in charge) of Apollo 14. This was the third trip to land astronauts on the moon. The trip lasted from January 31 - February 9, 1971. At the age of 47, he was the oldest person to ever walk on the Moon.

[[Julia Somerville]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people

Julia Mary Fownes Somerville (born July 14, 1947) is a reporter. She has worked for BBC News and ITN. She studied English at Sussex University. 

Somerville has been interested in art. In 2001, she was one of the people who selected the National Portrait Gallery's BP Portrait of the Year. She has also served as a judge for several years on the RIBA Annual Architecture Award Panels. On 18 September 2003, Somerville was appointed Chair of the Advisory Committee of the Government Art Collection.

Somerville has married three times: to Stephen Band (1970 - 1975, no children), Ray Gowdridge ( 1984 - 1992, two children). She currently lives in North London with her third husband, the architect Sir Jeremy Dixon. Somerville and Dixon were interviewed by police in 1996. The people who developed their photograph had raised suspicions, because the couple wanted ot have images of their seven-year-old child developed. These photos showed the child bathing. No caution or charges followed the investigation.

[[White émigré]]

CATEGORIES: History of Russia, Russian Revolution

White émigré (Белоэмигрант) is a political term used to describe Russian people who left Russia because of the Russian Revolution or Civil War. The term is used in France, the United States and the United Kingdom. Sometimes the term is used to describe everyone who left the country because of changes in the government.

[[Baldia Town]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Pakistan, Karachi

Baldia Town is the largest town of Karachi, Pakistan. It is bordered by SITE Town and Orangi to the east.  It is bordered by Kiamari Town to the north and west. 97% of the people are Muslim.

[[Long Eaton School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, 1910 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in England

Long Eaton School is a school for children in the town of Long Eaton in south east Derbyshire. The school is close to Nottinghamshire. It has been known by a number of names including Long Eaton Grammar School and is now called The Long Eaton School. The school delivers free education to local children when they are eleven until they leave school.

[[Long Eaton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Derbyshire, Market towns in England

Long Eaton is a town in south east Derbyshire in England. It is near to the River Trent and seven miles southwest of Nottingham.

Long Eaton is at least 900 years old and is close to where you could cross the River Erewash. More recently the Erewash canal was built and then the railway. The jobs in Long Eaton were making lace and railway wagons.

The town has two large schools for secondary pupils which are Wilsthorpe Community School and Long Eaton School. Trent College is also in Long Eaton. This is an older school for children who pay for their education.

[[Ur So Gay]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, Katy Perry songs, LGBT songs

"Ur So Gay" is a single released by Katy Perry. It was Perry's first major label release, and was later placed on her studio album One of the Boys. At first the song was just meant for the internet.

[[Instrumentation]]

CATEGORIES: Science, Measuring tools

Instrumentation is the science of measuring and controlling variables.  Variables are anything that can affect or change other things.  Instrumentation can be used to make processes faster or more efficient, meaning they use less effort, energy or money to produce the same results.

The word instrumentation may also mean the machines made to measure and control things.

The science of instrumentation involves figuring out the best way to measure or control something, building the machine or tools, and checking if the results are good and true. It may also include setting up and using the machine or tools.

[[Netbook]]

CATEGORIES: Laptops

Netbook, the word made by Intel company in February 2008, means cheap, smaller size of laptop much easier to move. It is a kind of computer that does basic jobs like web surfing and word processing. Netbook device is normally built for CPU that uses lower power, like the Intel Atom. Now there are many netbooks such as hp-mini and Asus Eee PC. More than 50 million netbooks will be released by 2011.

[[Devi]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu gods and goddesses

Devi is the word for "goddess" in Hinduism. The male equivalent is Deva, the female aspect of the divine. Devi is synonymous with Shakti, the female aspect of the divine. She has many different incarnations. Among these incarnations are Saraswati, Lakshmi, Durga, Kali, and Parvati. The Hindu worshipers of Devi are called 'Shaktas'.

Hindus believe in millions of female gods. Each goddess of the Hindus has her own story and history. They all look different too. Some goddesses can change how they look, so they have two or three different images. Some learned persons think that all Hindu goddesses are different forms of a single big or supreme goddess. Some learned persons also think that worship of goddesses by Hindus shows their respect for female gender.

[[Incarnation]]

CATEGORIES: Theology

Incarnation is the process by which a spiritual being takes form in a body (incarnates).  Examples of incarnations in various religions include:

[[Monism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical movements and positions, Theology

Monism is the thinking that there is only one thing.  All things are not separate but work together as one. The opposite thinking is dualism.

[[Michelle McManus]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Scottish singers

Michelle McManus is a Scottish singer and actress.

Her musical albums include The Meaning of Love.  Her songs include "All This Time."

[[Seamus Coleman]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Irish footballers, People from County Donegal

Seamus Coleman  (born 11 October 1988 in Donegal, Republic of Ireland) is an Irish professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Premier League club Everton.

[[Guan Yin]]

CATEGORIES: Bodhisattvas

Guan Yin (also spelled Kwan Yin) is the Chinese name of Avalokiteshvara, the Bodhisattva of compassion and mercy.

She takes various forms all over the world, in different eras and various forms. She can appear in the world as either male or female. 

[[University of Michigan College of Engineering]]

CATEGORIES: University of Michigan campus, Engineering schools, 1854 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Michigan

The University of Michigan College of Engineering is the engineering section of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. With 6,351 undergraduate and 3,331 graduate students as of 2012, the College of Engineering is one of the largest engineering schools in the United States. In several ranking systems, the college is ranked as one of the top ten engineering schools in the nation.

[[Ross School of Business]]

CATEGORIES: University of Michigan campus, 1924 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Michigan

The Ross School of Business is the business school of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Ross offers undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral degrees, as well as an executive education program. Ross also offers dual degrees with the colleges and schools of urban planning, engineering, medicine, law, education, nursing, information, music, and School of Natural Resources and Environment (SNRE).

[[Pegnitz (city)]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Bavaria

Pegnitz is a town in the Bayreuth district in Upper Franconia, Bavaria, Germany, with a population of about 15,000.

[[HMS Sirius (1786)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet, British warships

HMS ''Sirius'' was the main ship of the British First Fleet. The First Fleet carried the convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. This was the start of European settlement in Australia.

[[HMS Supply (1759)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet, British warships

HMS ''Supply was a small ship, an armed tender which sailed with the First Fleet. She was intended to be a support ship for HMS Sirius (1786). The First Fleet carried the convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. The ships left England in May 1787 and arrived in Australia in January 1788. This was the start of European settlement of Australia. Supply'' was commanded by Lieutenant Henry Lidgbird Ball.

Supply was a brig rigged sloop of 170 tons. A sloop is a small ship with a single gun deck. A brig rig means the ship had two masts and carried square sails. She had eight small three pounder guns and carried 50 men. She was the smallest ship in the fleet, and the fastest. She was 70 long and 26 wide. 

[[Alexander (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet

The Alexander was one of six convict transport ships in the First Fleet. The First Fleet carried convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. This was the start of European settlement of Australia. The Alexander was a ship of 452 tons under the command of Duncan Sinclair. It was 114 long and 31 wide. The ship was built in Hull in 1783. The ship had a contract with the British Government to carry convicts. The owners were paid at a rate of 10 shillings per ton per month until the ship returned to Deptford. They had to agree to keep the prisoners secure and in safe custody. Many of the convicts were not suited for a long sea voyage. Eleven sick men who had been put on the ship died before the fleet sailed. The ship took 195 male convicts to Australia.

[[Friendship (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet

The Friendship was a convict transport ship in the First Fleet. The First Fleet carried convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. The ships left England in May 1787 and arrived in Australia in January, 1788. This was the start of European settlement of Australia. The Friendship was a ship of 278 tons which had been built in Scarborough about 1785. It was under the command of Master Francis Walton. The ship had a contract with the British Government to carry convicts. The owners were paid at a rate of 10 shillings per ton per month until the ship returned to Deptford. They had to agree to keep the prisoners secure and in safe custody.The friendship sunk of the coast of Borneo on the way back to England.

On her return trip with the Alexander, many of the sailors on the Friendship became sick with scurvy. There were not enough sailors fit enough to sail both ships. All the crew went on board the Alexander, and the Friendship was scuttled (sunk) off the coast of Borneo on October 28, 1788.

[[Prince of Wales (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet

The Prince of Wales was a convict transport ship in the First Fleet. The First Fleet carried the convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. The ships left England in May 1787 and arrived in Australia in January 1788. This was the start of European settlement of Australia. The Prince of Wales was a ship of 350 tons under the command of John Mason.  She was built on the Thames in 1786. She was 103 long and 29 wide. The ship had a contract with the British Government to carry convicts. The owners were paid at a rate of 10 shillings per ton per month until the ship got back to Deptford. They had to agree to keep the prisoners secure and safe. This was the last ship to be chosen for the voyage after the Navy realized that they did not have enough space for the extra people, equipment, and supplies on the ten ships. There was one male convict and forty-nine female convicts which meant that there were only fifty convicts on the ship.

The Prince of Wales was still sailing around England up until 1797. In 1797 she was moved to Fort Royal, Martinique. There is no information after this.

[[Charlotte (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet

The Charlotte was one of six convict transport ships in the First Fleet. The First Fleet carried the convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. This was the start of European settlement of Australia. The Charlotte was built on the Thames about 1785, was a ship of 345 tons. She was under the command of Thomas Gilbert. She was 105 long and 28 wide. The ship had a contract with the British Government to carry convicts. The owners were paid at a rate of 10 shillings per ton per month. They had to agree to keep the prisoners secure and safe. She carried 88 male and 20 female convicts. After transporting the convicts to New South Wales, the Charlotte was under contract to work for the East India Company. 

[[Lady Penrhyn (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet

The Lady Penrhyn was one of six convict transport ships in the First Fleet. The First Fleet carried the convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. The ships left England in May 1787 and arrived in Australia in January 1788. This was the start of European settlement of Australia. 

The Lady Penrhyn was a ship of 338 tons under the command of William Cropton Server.  The ship had been built on the River Thames in 1786. She was 103 long and 27 wide.The captain, William Server, and biscuit maker, William Curtis were the owners of the ship. They had a contract with the British Government to carry convicts. The owners were paid at a rate of 10 shillings per ton per month. They had to agree to keep the prisoners secure and safe. She transported 101 female convicts to New South Wales. The convict women were kept secure with both handcuffs and chains. 

After the First Fleet trip, the Lady Penrhyn was under contract to work for the East India Company. She left Sydney on May 5, 1788 to go to China to pick up a load of tea. The Lady Penryhn got back to England in August 1789. 

[[Scarborough (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet

The Scarborough was one of six convict transport ships in the First Fleet. The First Fleet carried the convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. The ships left England in May 1787 and arrived in Australia in January 1788. This was the start of European settlement of Australia. 

The Scarborough was a ship of 430 tons under the command of John Marshall. She was 111 long and 30 wide. The prison deck was very small and cramped. The height of the space was only 53.  The ship had a contract with the British Government to carry convicts. The owners were paid at a rate of 10 shillings per ton per month. They had to agree to keep the prisoners secure and in safe custody. After transporting the convicts to New South Wales, the Scarborough was under contract to work for the East India Company.

Scarborough left Australia 5 May 1788, and with the Lady Penrhyn, sailed to China. On 17 May 1788 she landed at Lord Howe Island for birds and vegetables, and got back to England on 15 June 1789. 

[[Golden Grove (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet

The Golden Grove was a store ship in the First Fleet which carried the convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. The ships left England in May 1787, and arrived in Australia in January 1788. This was the start of European settlement of Australia. 

The Golden Grove was a ship of 375 tons under the command of Master Sharp. She had been built as a store ship at Whitby in 1780. She was 94 long and 30 wide. The ship had a contract with the British Government to transport food and equipment. The owners were paid at a rate of 10 shillings per ton per month until the ship returned to Deptford.

In October 1788 the Golden Grove took 32 convicts from Sydney to the penal colony on Norfolk Island. She left Port Jackson on November 19, 1788, with the Fishburn to return to England. After stopping at the Falkland Islands because of sailors sick with scurvy, she arrived back in Deptford in June 1789. Afterward the Golden Grove sailed from Newcastle and Liverpool, probably carrying rum from Jamaica. There is no information about the ship after 1804.The Golden Grove was a supply ship in the first fleet and carried live stock and food along with a lot more. 

[[Fishburn (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet

The Fishburn was a store ship in the First Fleet. The First Fleet carried the convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. The ships left England in May 1787 and arrived in Australia in January 1788. This was the start of European settlement of Australia. The Fishburn was a ship of 378 tons under the command of Master Robert Brown. The ship was 94 long and 26 wide. It had been built in Whitby in 1780. The ship had a contract with the British Government to transport food and equipment. The owners were paid at a rate of 10 shillings per ton per month until the ship returned to Deptford. 

The Fishburn and the Golden Grove left Port Jackson in November 1788 to return to England. She had to rest at the Falkland Islands for several days as several sailors were sick. She was returned to her owners at Deptford on May 25, 1789. No other information has been found about the ship afterwards.

[[Borrowdale (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: First Fleet

The Borrowdale was a store ship in the First Fleet which carried the convicts and soldiers to Australia to start a penal colony. This was the start of European settlement of Australia. The Borrowdale was a ship of 275 tons which had been built at Sunderland in about 1785. It was under the command of Master R. Hobson. The ship had a contract with the British Government to transport food and equipment. The owners were paid at a rate of 10 shillings per ton per month until the ship returned to Deptford. 

The Borrowdale left Sydney in July, 1788. The crew became very sick with scurvy. When the ship got to Rio de Janeiro several sailors were taken to hospital. Five sailors died on the way back to England.

[[Ve (Cyrillic)]]

Veh (В, в) is the third letter of the Cyrillic alphabet. It is said as v.

It comes from the Greek beta, along with the Cyrillic beh. Its old name was vede. Although it looks like a B, it stands for the Roman V and Beh (Б, б) stands for B.

[[De (Cyrillic)]]

Deh (Д, д) is the fifth letter of the Cyrillic alphabet. It is said as d.

It comes from the Greek delta. Its old name was dobro. It stands for the Roman D.

When written, it looks like a g, and when printed in italics, it is a д.

[[Francis Forbes]]

CATEGORIES: 1784 births, 1841 deaths, Bermudian people, Australian judges, Australian lawyers

Sir Francis Forbes (1784 – 1841) was the first Chief Justice (judge) of New South Wales. Before he set up the court system in Australia, people were tried by legal tribunals. The town of Forbes, New South Wales was named after him.

[[Ge (Cyrillic)]]

Geh (Г, г) is the fourth letter of the Cyrillic alphabet. It is said as g or h.

It comes from the Greek gamma. Its old name was glagoli. It stands for the Roman G.

[[Hala]]

Hala can refer to

[[Hala Gorani]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American journalists, Writers from Seattle, Washington

Hala Basha-Gorani  (هالة غوراني; born 1 March 1970), is an American reporter for CNN International. She is based in the network's headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. She anchors CNN International's International Desk.

[[Hala (clan)]]

CATEGORIES: Indian people, Ethnic groups in Sindh

Hala is a gotra or clan of the Jatt people found in the states of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh in India and in the province of Sindh in Pakistan.

[[Jamiroquai]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from London, Jazz bands, Funk bands, Soul bands, Disco groups

Jamiroquai are a British funk and acid jazz band. It was created by Jason Kay. The name of the band is a compound word created from "Jam session" and the name of the Native American tribe, the "Iroquois". 

The band's first single, "When You Gonna Learn?", was released in 1992. Because of the success of this single, Jamiroquai made a contract with Sony BMG. They release their first album Emergency on Planet Earth in 1993. The next year, their second album The Return of the Space Cowboy was released. This album become popular. In 1996, a song "Virtual Insanity" on the third album Travelling Without Moving was very popular. The music video of this song was so innovative that it caused a big sensation. With this song, Jamiroquai was nominated for 10 MTV video awards. It won four awards. This album made the band famous all across the world.  

The members of Jamiroquai have changed for many times, except Jason Kay.  For the present, the members of the band are:

[[Eraclea]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Italy, Settlements in Veneto

thumb|200px| Panorama of Eraclea's pinewoodEraclea is a town in the province of Venice, Veneto, Italy. SP42 goes through it.

Eraclea Mare is the Lido of Eraclea http://www.eracleamare.travel/.

It is located on the Adriatic Sea near the coast between the rivers Piave and Livenza and between two famous touristic towns: Caorle and Jesolo.

Eracleamare, one of the destinations of summer tourism on the Adriatic riviera, is together with Jesolo and Caorle one of the best known seaside resort on the Venetian coast. Within the last year, a steady growth of foreign tourists, especially from Germany, has been recorded. Also in 2010, Eracleamare has received the "Blu Flag" from the FEE http://www.eracleamare.travel/2010/05/16/eraclea-and-blue-flag-2010/ https://web.archive.org/web/20110909084439/http://www.eracleamare.travel/2010/05/16/eraclea-and-blue-flag-2010/.

[[Lenz's law]]

CATEGORIES: Electromagnetism

Lenz's law is a common way to understand how electromagnetic circuits obey Newton's third law and the conservation of energy. Lenz's law is named after Emil Lenz, and it says:

Lenz's law is shown with the negative sign in Faraday's law of induction:

which indicates that the induced emf (ℰ) and the change in magnetic flux (∂ΦB) have opposite signs.

The induced emf and the resulting induced current are counterclockwise when B is directed out from the page and the area of the circuit is decreasing. The flux through this circuit is decreasing in the outward direction. Now the induced current I produces its own magnetic field, and we may use the right-hand grip rule to compute the direction of this field. The result is that the magnetic field due to the induced current is also directed outward within the circuit. It is as though nature, through this induced field, tried to compensate for the reduction in the flux due to the applied field B. This turns out experimentally to be a general rule, so that we may say that

The direction of the induced emf is always such as to result in opposition to the change producing it.

That is Lenz's law.

As another example of the application of Lenz's law, consider a coil of wire to which a battery is suddenly connected. Suppose that the battery starts a current flowing clockwise, as viewed by the observer. This current will give rise to a magnetic field whose lines will thread the coil and circle back outside it. Thus, as the current due to the battery builds up, there is a changing magnetic flux through the coil and this must result in an induced emf in the coil. What is the direction of this induced emf? Lenz's law tells us immediately that it must be counterclockwise, so as to oppose the building up of the current. Similarly, when the current in a circuit is broken, the induced emf seeks to keep the current from dying out, and this accounts for the sparking observed when switches are opened slowly. The induced emf in a circuit whose current is changing is called the back emf, since it always opposes the alteration in the current. It arises from change in the current's own magnetic field, an effect referred to as self-inductance.

Were Lenz's law not true, an increase in current in a coil would result in an emf that aided the applied battery, thus increasing the current further, inducing more emf and further increases in the current, ad infinitum. This would be an unstable situation and one in which the conservation of energy principle would be disobeyed.

This sort of reasoning may be extended to other situations in which a system in equilibrium is displaced and the principle arrived at is the following.

When a system in equilibrium is disturbed, the equilibrium is displaced in the direction which tends to undo the effects of the disturbance.

This generalization of Lenz's law is called Le Chatelier's principle.

[[County Donegal]]

CATEGORIES: County Donegal

Donegal is a county in Ulster, Ireland. It is north of Leitrim and east of Northern Ireland.

[[ABC Kids (TV programming block)]]

CATEGORIES: Television series by Disney, Children's television series, American Broadcasting Company

ABC Kids was an American television programming block produced by ABC Productions and distributed by Buena Vista Television Group, a subsidiary of Disney Media Networks, which aired on ABC. It broadcasted several different children’s television series. These series were all owned by Disney Media Networks, the owner of ABC Entertainment Group. Most of them were also shown on Buena Vista Television Group’s own network Disney Channel. 

[[RLC circuit]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic circuits

A circuit containing resistance (R), inductance (L), and capacitance (C) is called an RLC circuit. A simple circuit only has one RLC series.

With a resistance R present, the total electromagnetic energy U of the circuit (the sum of the electric energy and magnetic energy) is no longer constant.  Instead, it decreases with time as energy is transferred to thermal energy in the resistance. Because of this loss of energy, the oscillations of charge, current and potential difference continuously decrease in amplitude, and the oscillations are said to be damped. 

However, this total energy decreases as energy is transferred to thermal energy. 

[[Jackstones]]

CATEGORIES: Games, Korean culture

Jackstones is a traditional Korean game. It is usually played by girls. The game is similar to the game Jacks. Jackstones is also a traditional game played in IndiaTamilnadu by the name Anchakal it is also played in rural villages of Andhra Pradesh by the name of Achenagandlu or Achamgilla or Chintapikkala aata, using small stones or Tamarind seeds.

[[Lorentz force]]

CATEGORIES: Electromagnetism

Lorentz's law is a law discovered by the Dutch physicist Hendrik Antoon Lorentz. Lorentz's law defines force that acts on moving charged particles in an electromagnetic field. Force consists of magnetic force and electric force.

F = qE (electric force)

If the charge is positive, the direction of the electric force is equal to direction of electric field.

F = qv*B (magnetic force)

The direction of the magnetic force is given by the right hand rule.

If charged particles move with velocity v in an electric field E and a magnetic field B

F = qE + qv*B

F : force (vector)

q : charge (scalar)

E : electric field (vector)

v : velocity of particle (vector)

B : magnetic field (vector)

Using this law, J.J. Thomson measured mass-to-charge ratio.

[[Snell's law]]

CATEGORIES: Optics

Snell's Law of Refraction is the scientific law of the refraction of light or other waves. In optics, Snell's law is about the speed of light in different media. The law states that when light passes through different materials (for example from air to glass) the ratio of sines of the incidence (incoming) angle and the refraction (outgoing) angle does not change:

Snell's law can be proved by Fermat's principle. Fermat's principle states that light travels along the path which takes the least time.

[[Golden lion tamarin]]

CATEGORIES: New World monkeys, Mammals of South America

The golden lion tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia), also called the golden lion marmoset is a small, squirrel-sized monkey with a lion-like mane. 

Tamarins live in small family groups. They are diurnal (most active during the day); at night, they rest in the cavity of a tree. The life span is about 15 years. They are in danger of extinction due to loss of habitat as their forest home is being cleared. These tamarins are arboreal (they live in trees). They live in coastal tropical rainforests in eastern Brazil of South America. Lion Tamarins take their name from their impressive manes—thick rings from Africa great cats lions.  The golden lion tamarin may be the most beautiful of the four lion tamarin species. Its golden hair frames a charismatic black face and covers its small body and tail.Despite their name, these rare primates have far more in common with their monkey relatives than any feline.

[[Piet Mondrian]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1944 deaths, Dutch painters, People from Amersfoort

Piet Mondrian (7 March 1872 – 1 February 1944) was a Dutch modern artist of the De stijl group. His early paintings show abstract landscapes in post-impressionist and cubist style.

He painted in an increasingly abstract style, until he finally achieved the style which made him famous. By 1920, he adopts a totally abstract motif, with an irregular checkerboard drawn with black lines, and with the spaces paints mostly white or sometimes in the primary colors of blue, red and yellow. This style is geometric abstraction with primary color.

Mondrian painted about 250 of these geometric abstracts, from 1917 to 1944. Mondrian called his style “neoplasticism”.

Escaping in 1940 from a Europe at war, Mondrian spent the last four years of his life in New York City. His paintings of that time express exuberance at city life. In his final painting, Broadway Boogie Woogie (1942/43), the checkerboard lines, previously black, are now painted blue, gray, red and yellow. The yellow was apparently inspired by New York’s Yellow cabs.

[[2004 Pacific hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific hurricane seasons, 2004 in weather, 2004 in North America

The 2004 Pacific hurricane season officially started May 15, 2004 in the eastern Pacific, and June 1, 2004 in the central Pacific, and lasted until November 30, 2004. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the northeastern Pacific Ocean.

[[Burn Gorman]]

CATEGORIES: British television actors, British movie actors, British musicians, 1974 births, Living people, Actors from Hollywood

Burn Gorman (born 1 September 1974) is a British actor and musician. He is best known for his roles as William Guppy in Bleak House, as Owen Harper in Torchwood, and as Phillip Stryver in The Dark Knight Rises.

[[Bury F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 establishments in England, Bury, English football clubs, Sport in Greater Manchester

Bury F.C. was a football club which played in England.

[[Naoko Mori]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Japanese movie actors, Japanese voice actors, Japanese television actors, People from Aichi Prefecture

Naoko Mori is a Japanese actress. A lot of people know her from her roles as Mie Nishikawa in Casualty (1993–1994), and as Toshiko Sato in Doctor Who and Torchwood.

[[Sarsaparilla]]

CATEGORIES: Spices

Sarsaparilla (IPA: /ˌsæspəˈɹɪlə/) (Smilax regelii) is a perennial trailing vine with prickly stems; it is from tropical America and the West Indies. Its name (which is zarzaparrilla in Spanish) comes from the Spanish words zarza for "shrub" and parrilla for "little grape vine."

[[Russell T Davies]]

CATEGORIES: British screenwriters, British television producers, British television writers, LGBT writers, People from Swansea, Welsh LGBT people, Writers from Glamorgan, 1963 births, Living people

Russell T Davies, OBE (born Stephen Russell Davies, 27 April 1963), is a critically acclaimed British television producer and writer from Swansea, Wales. He is known for television programmes such as Queer as Folk and The Second Coming, and for bringing back the popular science-fiction television series Doctor Who, and creating its spin-off series Torchwood and The Sarah Jane Adventures. He wrote the Book Doctor Who: The Writer's Tale. In 2015 three new shows by Davies, Cucumber, Banana, and Tofu, started. 

Davies is openly gay.

[[Hunedoara County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania, Transylvania

Hunedoara (hu.ne.'dwa.ra; Hunyad) is a county (Judeţ) of Romania, in Transylvania. The capital of Hunedoara County is Deva.

[[Murray Gold]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1969 births, English composers

Murray Gold (born 1969 in Portsmouth) is an English composer for stage, movie, and television.

He composed the music for the popular science-fiction program Doctor Who, and many other TV programmes and Movies.

[[American League Championship Series]]

CATEGORIES: American League, Baseball lists

In Major League Baseball, the American League Championship Series (ALCS), played in October, is a playoff round that decides the winner of the American League pennant. The winner of the series moves on to play the winner of the National League Championship Series in baseball's championship, the World Series.  It is a "best-of-seven" series, meaning the first team to win four games 

[[Stellar classification]]

CATEGORIES: Stars, Astrophysics

In astronomy, stellar classification is a way of grouping stars by temperature. Star temperature can be measured by looking at its spectrum, the type of light that the star shines.

Stars are also grouped into spectral types or classes by color. In general, a star's temperature determines its color, from red to blue-white. Spectral types are named with a letter. The seven main types are M, K, G, F, A, B and O. M stars are the coldest stars and O stars are the hottest. The full system contains other types that are hard to find: W, R, N, and S.

The closest star to the Earth, the sun, is a class G star.

[[Norwell, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Massachusetts, 1634 establishments in North America, 1630s establishments in Massachusetts

Norwell is a small town in Plymouth County, Massachusetts.

[[Grimsby Town F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1878 establishments in England

Grimsby Town F.C. is a football club which plays in England.

[[Thoa Mehram Khan]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Pakistan, Union Councils of Chakwal District

Thoa Mehram Khan is a village and Union Council of Chakwal District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan. It is part of Talagang Tehsil.

[[Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 movies, American family movies, American musical movies, American romance movies, Disney animated movies, Movies based on fairy tales, Movies composed by Oliver Wallace, United States National Film Registry movies

Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937 American animated musical fantasy movie. It was made by Walt Disney Productions and released by RKO Radio Pictures. It is based on the German fairy tale Snow White by the Brothers Grimm. It is the first full-length cel animated movie and the earliest in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. The story was adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann Blank, Richard Creedon, Merrill De Maris, Otto Englander, Earl Hurd, Dick Rickard, Ted Sears and Webb Smith. David Hand was the supervising director, while William Cottrell, Wilfred Jackson, Larry Morey, Perce Pearce, and Ben Sharpsteen directed the movie's different sequences.

Snow White was first shown at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21, 1937. It was released across the United States on February 4, 1938. With international earnings of $8 million during its initial release, the movie for a bit had the record of highest grossing sound movie at the time. The popularity of the movie has led to it being re-released theatrically many times, until its home video release in the 1990s. Adjusted for inflation, it is one of the top ten performers at the North American box office.

At the 11th Academy Awards, Walt Disney was awarded an honorary Oscar. The movie was nominated for Best Musical Score. It was added to the United States National Film Registry in 1989 and is ranked in the American Film Institute's list of the 100 greatest American films, who also named the movie as the greatest American animated movie of all time in 2008. Disney's take on the fairytale has had a huge cultural impact, resulting in popular theme park attractions, a video game, and a Broadway musical.

[[Captain Jack Harkness]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters, Fictional pansexuals

Captain Jack Harkness is a fictional character in the British television series Doctor Who and Torchwood. He is played by actor John Barrowman. He was first in Doctor Who in the 2005 episode "The Empty Child" and is in the show throughout the rest of the 2005 series as a companion of the Ninth Doctor. Jack later becomes the main character in Torchwood, an adult-themed spin-off of Doctor Who. He comes back into Doctor Who in the 2007 series and he meets the Tenth Doctor, and returned again for the 2008 series.

Jack is a time traveller and former con man from the 51st century. A bisexual.  In contrast to the wiser and older Doctor, Jack prefers a hands-on solution to the problem at hand. As a consequence of his death and being brought back in the last episode of the 2005 series of Doctor Who, the character becomes immortal, which does not change during both Doctor Who and Torchwood.

[[Hurricane Fico]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 in the United States, Retired tropical cyclone names, 20th century in Hawaii

Hurricane Fico of the 1978 Pacific hurricane season was a tropical cyclone that caused damage in Hawaii.

[[Software release]]

CATEGORIES: Software

When a piece of software is released it has usually gone through different steps in its development. Software that was released, can  be purchased, downloaded, or, generally used by customers. Usually these steps are:

[[The Best of Billie]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums, Billie Piper albums, Pop albums

The Best of Billie is an album by British pop singer Billie Piper. It was released by EMI on 8 August 2005. The album contained Piper's single releases as well as B-sides.

[[Girlfriend (Billie song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 songs, Billie Piper songs, Pop songs, Songs about sexuality

"Girlfriend" is a single released by Billie Piper in 1998. It is from her first album Honey to the B. It reached No. 1 in the United Kingdom. This made her the youngest and first female solo singer to reach the top spot with her first two singles.

On the American track listing for Honey to the B, the radio remix replaces the original album version.

[[Naresuan University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Thailand

Naresuan University is a university in Phitsanulok, Thailand.

[[King Bayinnong]]

CATEGORIES: 1516 births, 1581 deaths, Burmese people, Kings and queens

Bayinnaung Kyawhtin Nawrahta (Burmese: ဘုရင့်နောင် ကျော်ထင်နော်ရထာ, พระเจ้าบุเรงนอง; 16 January 1516 – 9 November 1581) was the third king of the Toungoo dynasty of Burma (Myanmar). He was king for 30 years. This time has been called the "greatest explosion of human energy ever seen in Burma". As king, Bayinnaung created the largest empire in the history of Southeast Asia. This empire included much of Burma, Manipur, Chinese Shan States (southern Yunnan), Lan Na (northern Thailand), Siam (central and southern Thailand) and Lan Xang (Laos and northeastern Thailand).

Bayinnaung's made the Shan States part of the Burmese kingdoms. This removed the threat of Shan raids into Upper Burma. This had been a concern to Upper Burma since the late 13th century. The kink took control of the Shan States in 1557. He put in an administrative system that took away much of the power of the Shan saophas (chiefs). The also made changes to some of their customs to make them similar to other customs in the kingdoms. His policy for dealing with the Shan was used by all Burmese kings until the kingdom was taken control of by the British in 1885.

He could not use this policy everywhere in his very large empire. His empire was a group of former sovereign kingdoms. The kings of each of the kingdoms were loyal to him. He was the Cakravartin (Universal Ruler). They were not loyal to the kingdom itself. Siam left the kingdom three years after of his death in 1584. By 1599, all the sub-kingdoms had left. Bayinnaung's empire had ended.

He is thought to be one of the three best Burmese kings. The other two are Anawrahta and Alaungpaya. Many well known places in modern Myanmar are named after him. He is also well known in Thailand because of a popular song and book. Both are called "Phu Chana Sip Thit". The name means "the Conqueror of Ten Directions."

[[Transformers (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s action movies, 2007 science fiction movies, American action movies, American science fiction movies, Movies directed by Michael Bay, Transformers (movie series)

Transformers is a 2007 live-action American movie adaptation of the Transformers franchise, directed by Michael Bay and written by Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman. It stars Shia LaBeouf as Sam Witwicky.

This movie has a sequel, Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen.

[[Siam Paragon]]

CATEGORIES: Malls, Buildings and structures in Bangkok

Siam Paragon is a shopping mall in Bangkok, the largest in Thailand. It opened on 9 December 2005. The mall is in the district of Pathumwan. It covers in an area of 500000. More than 4000 cars can park in its parking lot. Siam Paragon is the first place in Thailand that have 26 glass elevators. 

In addition to the stores in the mall, there are many other special locations. The mall has a multiplex movie theater. It has 15 large theaters One of the theaters has the largest screen in Asia. Also, more people can sit in that theater than any other Asian theater. Siam Ocean World (Underwater world) is an aquarium. It is the largest aquarium in South East Asia. The mall also has exhibition hall, Thai Art Gallery, an opera concert hall, a large bowling alley and a karaoke center.

There are also many different restaurants  in the mall.

[[Tropical Storm Ana (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 Atlantic hurricane season, Atlantic tropical storms, Hurricanes in Bermuda, 2000s in Bermuda, 2003 in Florida

Tropical Storm Ana was the only tropical cyclone on record in the Atlantic Ocean in the month of April. Ana was the first tropical storm of the 2003 Atlantic hurricane season. Tropical Storm Ana was two kinds of storms, a subtropical cyclone, and a tropical cyclone. It formed as a subtropical cyclone on April 20, while it was to the west of Bermuda. It moved towards the east-southeast and began to get better organized. On April 21, the subtropical cyclone became a tropical cyclone. Tropical Storm Ana then turned towards the east-northeast. It quickly lost strength because of wind shear and a close cold front. On April 24, Ana became an extratropical cyclone. 

The storm moved near Bermuda, while causing light rainfall. The remnants of the storm also dropped rain in the Azores and the United Kingdom. Stormy sea waters caused by the storm capsized a boat near Florida coastline. The incident killed two people.

[[Hymenoptera]]

CATEGORIES: Hymenoptera

The Hymenoptera is one of the larger orders of insect. It includes the wasps, bees, ants and sawflies. There are over 130,000 recognised species, with many more remaining to be described. The name is derived from the Greek words hymen meaning 'membrane' and ptera meaning 'wings. The hindwings are connected to the forewings by a series of hooks called hamuli.

Females typically have a special ovipositor for inserting eggs into hosts or otherwise inaccessible places.  The ovipositor is often modified into a stinger. The young develop through complete metamorphosis — that is, they have a worm-like larval stage and an inactive pupal stage before they mature (See holometabolism).

[[Syrian Americans]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in the United States, Syrian people

Syrian Americans are citizens of the United States of Syrian ancestry or nationality. This ethnic group includes first generation immigrants, and descendants of Syrians who immigrated to the United States. It is believed that Syrians first arrived in the United States in large number in 1880. Many of the earliest Syrian Americans settled in New York, Boston, and Detroit. Immigration from Syria to the United States was stopped for a long time after the United States Congress passed the Immigration Act of 1924, which made it difficult.

More than forty years later, the Immigration Act of 1965, removed the quotas and immigration from Syria to the United States increased very much. It is estimated that 64,600 Syrians immigrated to the United States between 1961 and 2000.

Most of the Syrian immigrants to the US from 1880 to 1960 were Christian; a small minority were Jewish, Muslim Syrians arrived in the United States mostly after 1965. According to the United States 2000 Census, there were 142,897 Americans of Syrian ancestry, about 12% of the Arab population in the United States.

[[Dipole antenna]]

CATEGORIES: Radio antennas

The dipole antenna is one of the most important and commonly used type of radio antenna. It is widely used on its own. It is also used in many other radio antenna designs where it forms the radiating or driven element for the antenna.

[[Analog signal processing]]

CATEGORIES: Signalling, Telecommunications

An analog signal processor is used to quickly process signals that can be too complex to handle any other way. A comparator is used to offer level triggers correct down to microvolts with reaction times in the picoseconds. Analog filters offer anti-aliasing in sampled value systems as inputs and outputs, and can be used as pre-filters in audio and communications. Analog multipliers and dividers are used to offer brief gain control, radiometric function, or continuous energy measurement, with surprising accuracy. Over-voltage protection applications can protect the front-end of analog transmission/receiver systems, multiplexers. Amplification and filtering for noise removal are the main feature of analog signal processing.

[[Delta Goodrem]]

CATEGORIES: Australian child actors, Australian movie actors, Australian pop musicians, Australian singer-songwriters, Australian television actors, Cancer survivors, Musicians from Sydney, Australian pianists, 1984 births, Living people, Actors from Sydney

Delta Lea Goodrem (born 9 November 1984) is an Australian actress and singer. Her first single, "I Don't Care", charted as high as #64 on Australia's ARIA Singles Chart in 2001. In the following year, Goodrem took up the role of a schoolgirl named Nina Tucker in the Australian soap opera Neighbours. This helped her into becoming a well known musician.

[[Tiber River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Italy

The Tiber (Tiberis, Tevere) is the third-longest river in Italy, rising in the Apennine Mountains in Emilia-Romagna and flowing mainly through Umbria and Lazio to the Tyrrhenian Sea, between Ostia and Fiumicino.

The river is well-known because the city of Rome was founded on its eastern banks.

[[Flag of Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Italy, National flags

The flag of Italy is a three colour flag. It has three same-sized strips of green, white, and red, in order from left to right. Its current form was adopted on the 1st of January 1948. In Italy it is called the Tricolore.

[[Kele Okereke]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Black British musicians, English guitarists, English LGBT people, English rock musicians, Gay men, LGBT musicians, LGBT singers, Musicians from Liverpool, Musicians from London, Singers from London, Bloc Party

Kelechukwu Rowland Okereke known as Kele Okereke is a British singer and guitarist for rock band Bloc Party. He was born in Liverpool on 13 October 1981 and grew up in London, England, United Kingdom. His parents are from Nigeria. He is openly gay.

[[Russell Lissack]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Bloc Party, English rock guitarists, Musicians from London, People from Chingford, Vegetarians

Russell Lissack (born 11 March 1981) is a British musician. He is the guitar player for the rock band Bloc Party and is also in the band Pin Me Down. He was born in Chingford in London.

[[Matt Tong]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Bloc Party, English drummers, People from Bournemouth

Matthew Chee Hung Tong or Matt Tong (born 29 April 1979), is a British musician. He played the drums for the rock band Bloc Party but currently plays in the band Algiers. He was born in Bournemouth in England, United Kingdom but his parents were originally from England and Malaysia. In 2006, he married Brooke Vermilion.

[[Gordon Moakes]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Bloc Party, English guitarists, English singers

Gordon Peter Moakes (born 22 June 1976) is an English bass guitar player and singer for the rock band Bloc Party. He can also play the drums and Glockenspiel. He was born in Milton Keynes, England, United Kingdom. He is the oldest member of Bloc Party.

Moakes has a tattoo of a heart on his left arm and he has a new-born child called Scarlet.

[[With the Lights Out]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Nirvana albums

With the Lights Out is a box-set album by the American grunge band Nirvana. It was released on November 23, 2004 on Geffen Records.

It was the only box set by Nirvana. It came out years after the band broke up after lead singer and guitarist Kurt Cobain died in 1994.

[[The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 books, Non-fiction books

The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People is a book by Stephen R. Covey.

This book is about Ethics and Philosophy. It was published in 1989 and sold more than 15 million.

[[Kirchhoff's circuit laws]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

In 1845, German physicist Gustav Kirchhoff described two laws about electrical circuits..

These laws are generalizations of Ohm's law.

Kirchhoff's circuit laws are very useful in solving circuit problems.

[[Peter Henlein]]

CATEGORIES: Clocks, German inventors, 1479 births, 1542 deaths

Peter Henlein (or Henle or Hele) (1479/1480 – August 1542), was a locksmith and watchmaker from Nuremberg. He is often said to be the inventor of the watch. This is disputed. Henlein was certainly one of the first makers of the watch. Although many say that Henlein invented the mainspring, there are descriptions and two surviving examples show that spring driven clocks had already been made by the early 1400s. He did make improvements to the balance spring, which made it possible to make the watches smaller.

Around 1504 to 1508 Henlein did make a watch; a small, drum-shaped Taschenuhr. It could run for forty hours before it needed rewinding. They were small enough to be worn around the neck, or carried in a bag or pocket. His watch only had an hour hand.

[[Microfabrication]]

CATEGORIES: Manufacturing

Microfabrication is making things which are very small. The earliest micromanufacturing was used to make the different parts of a computer circuit board.

[[Cavity magnetron]]

CATEGORIES: Wave physics

The cavity magnetron is a high-powered vacuum tube that makes microwaves using the interaction of a stream of electrons with a magnetic field. Electrons pass by holes (cavities), and the resonance creates microwaves, like blowing air on a flute creates sound (sound waves) of a certain pitch. The 'resonant' cavity magnetron type of the earlier magnetron tube was invented by John Randall and Harry Boot in 1940. The high power of pulses from the cavity magnetron made centimetre-band radar practical. Shorter wavelength  radars allowed the finding of smaller objects. The small cavity magnetron tube made the size of radar sets much smaller so that they could be put into in aircraft and ships used to find submarines. At present, cavity magnetrons are commonly used in microwave ovens and in various radar applications.

[[Sanghar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Sanghar District

Sanghar (سانگھڑ) is a city in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city is headquarters of Sanghar District and Sanghar Taluka (a subdivision of the district). It is an agricultural town about 265km from Karachi. Unfortunately, there is no railway station and airport in the city. But the city does have road links with Hyderabad, Nawabshah, Mirpur Khas and other major cities of Sindh. 

[[Dadu, Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Dadu District

Dadu (دادو) is town in Sindh, Pakistan. Dadu is the capital of Dadu District. The town is located at 26°44'0N 67°47'0E with an altitude of 24 metres (82 feet) and is divided into three Union councils.

[[Hyderabad City Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh, Hyderabad District

Hyderabad City Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. Hyderabad District is divided into 4 talukas, the Urban area around the capital Hyderabad is part of Hyderabad City Taluka.

[[Hyderabad]]

Hyderabad can mean more than one city.

[[Hyderabad Taluka (rural)]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh, Hyderabad District

Hyderabad Taluka (rural) is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. Hyderabad district is subdivided into 4 talukas, the Urban area around the capital Hyderabad is part of Hyderabad City Taluka.

[[Hatri]]

CATEGORIES: Hyderabad District, Union Councils of Sindh

Hatri is a Union Council of Hyderabad Taluka (rural) in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It has a population of 29,719,  and is located at 25°28'0N 68°24'0E lying to the north-east of the district capital - Hyderabad.

[[Masu Bhurgri]]

CATEGORIES: Hyderabad District, Union Councils of Sindh

Masu Bhurgri is a Union Council of Hyderabad Taluka (rural) in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It has a population of             24,362. It is located at 25°30'0N 68°28'0E to the north-east of the district capital  - Hyderabad.

[[Moosa Khatiyan]]

CATEGORIES: Hyderabad District, Union Councils of Sindh

Masu Bhurgri is a Union Council of Hyderabad Taluka (rural) in the Sindh province of Pakistan. 

[[Haji Sawan Khan Gopang]]

CATEGORIES: Hyderabad District, Union Councils of Sindh

Haji Sawan Khan Gopang is a Union Council of Hyderabad Taluka (rural) in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It has a population of 24,005.

[[Tando Qaiser]]

CATEGORIES: Hyderabad District, Union Councils of Sindh

Tando Qaisar is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is at 25°22'60N 68°31'0E to the east of the district capital Hyderabad.

[[Tando Hyder]]

CATEGORIES: Hyderabad District, Union Councils of Sindh

Tando Hyder is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is part of the rural Taluka of Hyderabad  and is located at 25°22'60N 68°25'60E and lies to the east of the capital Hyderabad.

[[Husri]]

CATEGORIES: Hyderabad District, Union Councils of Sindh

Husri is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is part of the rural Taluka of Hyderabad. It is located at 25°19'0N 68°25'0E and is south-east of the capital Hyderabad.

[[Moolan]]

CATEGORIES: Hyderabad District, Union Councils of Sindh

Moolan is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is part of the rural Taluka of Hyderabad.

[[Tando Fazal]]

CATEGORIES: Hyderabad District, Union Councils of Sindh

Tando Fazal is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is part of the rural Taluka of Hyderabad and is located at 25. It is south-east of the capital Hyderabad.

[[Tando Jam]]

CATEGORIES: Hyderabad District, Union Councils of Sindh

Tando Jam (ٽنڊوڄام) is a town and Union Council of Hyderabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is at 25°25'60N 68°31'60E and is about 20 km away from Hyderabad city and 5 km from Tando Qaiser. It is on the Hyderabad to Mirpurkhas Road. 

[[Jacobabad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Jacobabad District

Jacobabad is the capital city of Jacobabad District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city is also the administrative centre of Jacobabad Taluka, a subdivision of the district. The city itself is subdivided into 8 Union Councils.

Jacobabad is located at 28. The city is crossed by the Pakistan Railways and many main roads of the province. Jacobabad is said to be one of the hottest cities in Pakistan.

During British rule, as part of British India, the town was the headquarters of the Upper Sind Frontier District of the Bombay Presidency. It was famous for having the highest temperature in the Indian Subcontinent. In June the temperature is  between 120° and 127 °F (49 to 53 °C).

The town was founded near the village of Khangarh in 1847 by Brigadier General John Jacob. General Jacob died here in 1858 and the city still bears his name.

[[Upper Sind Frontier District]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Jacobabad District

Upper Sind Frontier District was a district of the Bombay Presidency during British Rule in what is now the Sindh province of Pakistan. Sind is an old spelling of Sindh.

The district was the northernmost part of Sindh. It was bordered to the north and west by the Dera Ghazi Khan District of the Punjab and by Baluchistan, on the south by Sukkur District, and on the east by the river Indus.

[[Jamshoro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Jamshoro District

Jamshoro (جامشورو) is the capital city of Jamshoro District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is on the right bank of Indus River. It is about 18 northwest of the city of Hyderabad.

[[Khairpur, Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan, Settlements in Sindh, Khairpur District

Khairpur (خیرپور, khīr´poor) is the twelfth largest city in the province of Sindh in southeast Pakistan.  Today it is the capital of Khairpur District . It was once the capital of the former princely state of Khayrpur.

[[Khayrpur (princely state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states, Khairpur District

Khayrpur or Khairpur was a princely state on the Indus River in what is now Pakistan, with its capital city at Khayrpur. Together with Bahawalpur to the north-east, the state was included with the Punjab states rather than the neighbouring Rajputana states (now Rajasthan) to the east. 

[[Bahawalpur (princely state)]]

CATEGORIES: Former subdivisions of Pakistan, Pakistani princely states

Bahawalpur was a princely state of the Punjab in what is now Pakistan. It was on the southern bank of the Sutlej and Indus Rivers. Its capital city was Bahawalpur. 

In 1941, the state had 1,341,209 people. It covered 45,911 km² (17,494 sq mi). It was divided into three districts: Bahawalpur, Rahimyar Khan and Bahawalnagar.

The state was created in 1690 by Bahadur Khan II. In 1833 Nawab Mohammad Bahawal Khan III signed an agreement with the British guaranteeing the independence of the Nawab from the British. The state agreed to become part of Pakistan on 7 October 1947. The state was then merged into the province of West Pakistan on 14 October 1955.

[[Dokri Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh, Larkana District

Dokri Taluka (ڏوڪري تعلقو) is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Larkana District in the Sindh province of Pakistan, the city of Larkana is the capital. This taluka is located to the south of Larkana city. The most populated town in this taluka is Badah. Dadu and Rice canals pass through this taluka.

[[Larkana]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Larkana District

Larkana or Larkano (لاڑکانہ) is city of Sindh Province, Pakistan. The city is the capital of Larkana District. In August 2000 Larkana celebrated its hundred years of existence. It is located on the south bank of the Ghar canal, 40 miles south of Shikarpur town, and 36 north-east of Mehar.

[[Larkana Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh, Larkana District

Larkana Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Larkana District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city of Larkana is the capital.

[[Mirpur Khas]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Mirpur Khas District

Mirpur Khas (Sindhi and میرپور خاص), is a city in the province of Sindh in Pakistan. It is the fourth largest city in the province with an estimated population of 124,371 (1981). It is the capital of Mirpur Khas District.

Its soil is fertile and the city is known for its horticulture produce and farming, of which the most celebrated is the mango cultivation with hundreds of varieties of mangoes produced each year.

[[Allahabad, Sindh]]

CATEGORIES: Nawabshah District, Settlements in Sindh

Allahabad is a town of Nawabshah District in the southern Sindh province of Pakistan. It is at 26°53'30N 67°45'0E.

[[Nawabshah Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Pakistan, Nawabshah District

Nawabshah Airport is at Nawabshah, Sindh, Pakistan.

[[Naushahro Feroze]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Naushahro Feroze District

Naushahro Feroze (نوشہرو فیروز) is town in Naushahro Feroze District, Sindh, Pakistan. It is the capital of Naushahro Feroze District.

[[Tando Allahyar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Tando Allahyar (ٹنڈو اللہ یار, ٽنڊو الهيار) is a town in Sindh, Pakistan. It is the capital of Tando Allahyar District.

[[Began Jarwar]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Began Jarwar is a village and Head quarter of Union Council Began Jarwar of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is part of Chamber Taluka. It is in the south of the district to the southeast of the district capital Tando Allahyar at 25°25'35N 68°50'20E. The Union Council has 41,890 people.

[[Bukera Sharif]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Bukera Sharif is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is part of Tando Allahyar Taluka in the southwest of the district.

[[Dad Khan Jarwar]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Dad Khan Jarwar is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan.  It has 65,295 people. It is part of Chamber Taluka. It is in the south of the district at 25°19'5N 68°43'20E.

[[Dasori]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Dasori is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It has a population of 49,427 and is part of Jhando Mari Taluka.

[[Dhaghano Bozdar]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Dhaghano Bozdar is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. The Union Council has 56,892 people. It is part of Tando Allahyar Taluka. It is in the west of the district.

[[Mirabad]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Mirabad is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It has 57,361 people. It is in the northeast of the district where it forms part of Jhando Mari Taluka.

[[Missan]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Missan is a Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in Sindh, Pakistan. It is one of the largest Union Councils of the District, it has a population of over 13,000.

[[Pak Singhar]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Pak Singhar is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is and is part of Tando Allahyar Taluka. It is southeast of the capital. The Union Council has 43,473 people.

[[Piyaro Lund]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Piyaro Lund is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan, it has 23,613 people. It is part of Jhando Mari Taluka. It is in the south of the district.

[[Sanjar Chang]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Piyaro Lund is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is and is part of Chamber Taluka and is in the southeast of the district, the Union Council has 35,169 people.

[[Shaikh Moosa]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Shaikh Moosa is a town and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh Province of Pakistan. It is part of Tando Allahyar Taluka. It is in the centre of the district. The Union Council has 65,776 people.

[[Tando Soomaro]]

CATEGORIES: Union Councils of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Tando Soomro, or Tando Soomaro, is a village and Union Council of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. Tando Soomro lies 7 km to the north-west of the district capital - Tando Allahyar at  25°31'60N 68°40'60E.

[[Jalalabad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Afghanistan

Jalalabad  (جلال اباد) is a city in eastern Afghanistan. Jalalabad is the capital of Nangarhar Province. By road, it is about 90 from Kabul to the west. It is also about the same distance from Peshawar in Pakistan to the east. About 360.000 people live there.

Although most of the people of Jalalabad are Pashtun, a few Dari-speaking Tajikslive there, too. Sunni Islam is the main religion of the people. 

[[Politics of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Pakistan

The Politics of Pakistan has seen many changes over the years. The military have sometimes been running the country. Recently however the country has returned to democratic rule.

Pakistan is a federal republic, at the moment, the President of Pakistan is the head of state and the Prime Minister is head of government.

[[President of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Pakistan

The President of Pakistan (صدر, Sadr-e-Mumlikat) is the head of state of Pakistan. Pakistan has a parliamentary form of government. According to the Constitution, the President is chosen by the Electoral College to serve a five-year term. The electoral college is made up of the Senate, National Assembly, and the provincial assemblies.

The position of president in Pakistan has usually been one of a figurehead. That is with real power being given to the Prime Minister. However the power of the president has changed over the years, due to the military changing the role.

[[Bakrani]]

CATEGORIES: Larkana District

Bakrani (باڪراڻي) is a town in Larkana District, Sindh province of Pakistan. This town is 12 km south of Larkana city on the Larkana-Mohenjo-daro road. It has an altitude of 53 metres and is the headquarters of Bakrani Taluka.

[[Ratodero]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Larkana District

Ratodero is the capital of Ratodero Taluka a sub-division of Larkana District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is located some 30 km away from the district capital Larkana.

[[Languages of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan

English is the official language of Pakistan. Urdu is the national language despite not being the mother tongue of any native group in the country. There are also provincial languages, Balochi language, Pashto, Saraiki, Sindhi and Punjabi, and one state language (Kashmiri language).

Pakistan is heir to one of the most ancient civilzations in the world along with Iraq and Egypt, and it is only to be expected that its languages, too, have ancient roots. These primary languages have not been used in the domains of power because the rulers of these regions were generally foreigners. But the foreigners, whether the Persians, Greeks, Arabs, Turco-Mongols as well as the British, have all enriched the indigenous languages so that their vocabulary is multilingual and varied. As the people of these areas converted to Islam, Arabic and Persian words influenced and became part of their identity, and remain so. In a sense, it is their very presence, as well as the Arabic-based scripts of all 75 Pakistani languages, which gave them a cultural unity. Linguistically, Pakistan faces two directions: India, because the roots of its languages are Dravidian as well as Indo-Aryan; and the Middle East, because its scripture and vocabulary owe very much so to Arabic and based on Farsi, for example; the national anthem is a highly Persianized form of Urdu.

[[Empedocles]]

CATEGORIES: Presocratic philosophers

Empedocles  was a Greek pre-Socratic philosopher and a person who lived in  Agrigentum, a Greek colony in Sicily. 

Empedocles' philosophy is best known for being the origin of the cosmogenic theory of the four classical elements in the Western world. He also proposed powers called Love and Strife which would act as forces to bring about the mixture and separation of the elements. These physical speculations were part of a history of the universe which also dealt with the origin and development of life. 

Influenced by the Pythagoreans, he supported the doctrine of reincarnation. Empedocles is generally considered the last Greek philosopher to record his ideas in verse. Some of his work still survives today, more so than in the case of any other Presocratic philosopher. Empedocles' death was mythologized by ancient writers, and has been the subject of a number of literary treatments.

[[Forensic psychology]]

CATEGORIES: Branches of psychology, Forensics

Forensic psychology is a branch of psychology which relates to the law. The main part of forensic psychology is working with the criminal justice system.

Forensic psychology is the use of psychological practices and principles and applying them to the legal system, mainly in court. In 1893 James McKeen Cattell at Columbia University was the first to research and study the psychology of testimony. 

The American Psychological Association Council of Representatives in 2001 recognized Forensic psychology as a specialty. A broad definition for forensic psychology includes two parts. The first part is to research human behavior that is and/or can be related to the legal process. The second is the use of psychological practice to consult on and within the legal system, including both criminal and civil law.  

The public part of a forensic psychologist’s time is spent in a courtroom working as a witness for the court. They answer questions based on interviews and discussions with people suspected of a crime. One aspect of a forensic psychologist is to give evidence as to the suspect’s ability to stand trial. Another is to give their thoughts about the accused's state of mind at the time of the offense. At sentencing, a forensic psychologist may give evidence of mitigating circumstances arising from the accused's condition at the time.

[[Tag team]]

CATEGORIES: Professional wrestling

May 2020

In professional wrestling, a tag team is a team of two wrestlers who are working together as a team (more than two is called a stable). Most of the time they are close partners and backstage friends who team with each other almost all the time, while other times they are wrestlers that fight by themselves most of the time who team together for just one match.

They usually wrestle against the same number of other wrestlers on the other team or teams, however in the occasional "handicap match" there may be more wrestlers on one team then the other, for example André the Giant often wrestled against two or more opponents.

[[Tajja]]

CATEGORIES: Comic books

Tajja(타짜 in Korean) means a professional gambler in Korea. Tajja is a comic book drew by the Korean best cartoonist "Heo Young-Man", written by the author "Kim Se-Young". This novel was once serialized in the newspaper 'Donga-ilbo'. Tajja was made in a book on 2006 september 28th. Tajja has made a 'Tajja syndrome' right away the publication among the adult readers. Recently, although this comic book is a adult-comic, every ages and sex is watching this comic book. Tajja has shown the human's desire in the front.

To do so, cartoonist "Heo Young-Man" based on a thorough collection of data by himself. He went everywhere if you could gather a information about his comic.

Tajja won high praises without stint through its production that perfectly penetrated the material and a reality which it makes us an illusion like we are watching a movie.

Because Heo Young-Man is the cartoonist who Korean likes the best, the reader can feel Heo Young-Man's value through Tajja.

The story is about a guy who is born in South Korea, Busan. He was a normal child as others.

But one day he went to a gambling house by coincidence. That was the problem, he lost all of his money, and brought his sisters money which must be used in a marriage of her sister.

Of course he lost all of his money again. So the story starts from now on to be a professional gambler and gather lots of money.

[[Opportunity cost]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Opportunity cost is the value of the next best thing you give up whenever you make a decision. It is "the loss of potential gain from other alternatives when one alternative is chosen". 

The idea of an opportunity cost was first begun by John Stuart Mill. The utility has to be more than the opportunity cost for it to be a good choice in economics.

For example, opportunity cost is how much leisure time we give up to work. Because leisure and income are both valued, we have to decide whether to work, or do what we want. Going to work implies more income but less leisure. Staying at home is more leisure yet less income.

Another example is deciding to stop work to go back to university. By choosing to go to university, your opportunity cost is losing your job and your pay check. Even though going back to university has a big opportunity cost, many people think it is a good decision because increased education gives you more job opportunities.

And in the other words Opportunity Cost can be termed as cost of forgone alternatives or cost of shifting from one opportunity to the other.

[[Virgin Killer]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 albums, Hard rock albums, Heavy metal albums

Virgin Killer is the fourth album by the German heavy metal band Scorpions. It was released in 1976, and it helped the Scorpions gain fans outside Europe. The album's cover has caused controversy, as it features a naked young girl. Some of the band members have said that the cover is okay, but others have said that they feel bad about releasing it. Some magazines and websites, such as Cracked and Gigwise.com, have called it one of the worst album covers of all time.

In 2008, the English Wikipedia page for Virgin Killer was put on a blacklist (a list of bad content) by the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), a UK organization. Because of this, many major Internet service providers (ISPs) in the UK were banned from seeing the page. The IWF called the cover "indecent".

[[Dendrobium]]

CATEGORIES: Orchids

Dendrobium is one of the largest genus of orchids with about 1000 species being known. Being such a large group creates much diversity. Dendrobiums are found only in the Eastern Hemisphere and range from Australia, throughout the South Pacific and Philippines, Southeast Asia, and India, and a small representation in Japan.

[[BBC HD]]

CATEGORIES: BBC television channels

BBC HD was a high-definition television channel provided by the BBC. The service was initially run as a trial from 15 May 2006 until becoming a full service on 1 December 2007. The first HD originated program to be shown on the channel was Planet Earth, shown on 27 May 2006.

BBC HD closed early on 26 March 2013. BBC Two HD replaced it.

[[Manta ray]]

CATEGORIES: Rays

The manta ray (Manta birostris) is the largest species of the rays. The largest known specimen was more than 7.6 across, with a weight of about 1300. It ranges throughout tropical waters of the world, typically around coral reefs. They have the largest brain-to-body ratio of the sharks, rays and skates (Elasmobranchii), a brain which is kept warm during lengthy dives to as deep as 500 in cold water.

Mantas may be at least two different species, the giant manta (Manta birostris), which migrates, and another smaller one called the reef manta (Manta alfredi), which does not. The genus may need revising.

Manta rays are probably at the top of the food chain. Some shark species, such as the tiger shark may hunt them. 

[[Yulia Barsukova]]

CATEGORIES: Russian gymnasts, 1979 births, Living people

Yulia Vladimirovna Barsukova (Russian Ю́лия Влади́мировна Барсуко́ва,) December 31, 1979, Moscow,Russia) is a Russian former rhythmic gymnast. She won the all-around gold medal at the Sydney Olympics. She left gymnastic to pursue a career in couple figure skating alongside her ex-husband and soon left the sport and gave birth to a child in 2008.

[[Book of Baruch]]

CATEGORIES: Books of the Bible

The Book of Baruch, sometimes called 1 Baruch, is a deuterocanonical or apocryphal book of the Bible, meaning it is considered part of the Bible by Catholics and members of the Orthodox Church but generally not by Protestants.  Even though it is not in the Hebrew Bible, it is in the Septuagint and in the Vulgate Bible, and also in Theodotion's version of the Bible. The Book claims to be have been written by the secretary of the prophet Jeremiah called Baruch in the sixth century BC, which might be true, but the Book was likely only completed in the first century BC. A manuscript of Baruch was found at the Caves of Qumran. The Book of Baruch contains prayer, a request for forgiveness, a recommendation to learn wisdom, a call to be hopeful in the face of Jerusalem's destruction, as well as a reminder to avoid worshiping idols.

Catholic Bibles also add the Letter of Jeremiah to the Book of Baruch as a sixth chapter.

[[Korea Baseball Organization]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball leagues

The Korea baseball organization (KBO) manages and administrates Korean professional baseball League. In addition, KBO works on many things about baseball. First of all, KBO collects and keeps baseball records. Second, KBO supports amateur baseball. Third, KBO works for international exchange or activities such as Olympic game and World Baseball Classic(WBC) and so on. Fourth, KBO supplies and develops baseball skills. KBO was established with Korean professional baseball league in 1982. KBO’s main office is located in 946-16, Do-kok dong (도곡동), Kang-nam ku (강남구), Seoul (서울), South Korea. In Korean league, there are 10 teams which are Lotte Giants, Samsung Lions, SK Wyverns, LG Twins, Doosan Bears, Hanwha Eagles, KIA Tigers, Nexen Heroes, NC Dinos, and KT Wiz.

[[Scorpions (band)]]

CATEGORIES: German heavy metal bands, Hanover, Hard rock bands

Scorpions are a heavy metal/hard rock band from Hanover, Germany, probably best known for their 1980s rock anthem "Rock You Like a Hurricane" and their singles "No One Like You", "Still Loving You", and "Wind of Change". The band has sold over 100 million albums worldwide  and were ranked #46 on VH1's Greatest Artists of Hard Rock program.

[[Internet Watch Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: Internet-related organizations, Law enforcement in the United Kingdom, Organisations based in England

The Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) is an organisation in the United Kingdom that gets reports from people and acts on those reports. They help remove things that could be illegal content on the Internet. 

[[Shakargarh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan

Shakargarh, the headquarters of Shakargarh Tehsil, is a city in the north-east of Pakistan in Narowal District of Punjab province. The city is at 32°16'0N 75°10'0E and is on the west bank of the Ravi River.

[[X-Forwarded-For]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

The X-Forwarded-For (XFF) HTTP header is a standard for finding the IP address of a client connecting to a web server through an HTTP proxy or load balancer comes from. 

[[BT Group]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 establishments in the United Kingdom, Companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, Internet service providers, London

British Telecommunications Group plc which trades as BT, (sometimes known as British Telecom and still occasionally referred to by that name) is the privatised  UK state telecommunications operator.

BT Group is the largest communications service provider in the United Kingdom.

[[Virgin Media]]

CATEGORIES: Internet service providers, Virgin Group, Companies based in New York City

Virgin Media Inc. (formerly known as ntl:Telewest, after a merger of NTL Incorporated with Telewest Global, Inc.), became in 2006 the first "quadruple-play" media company in the United Kingdom, bringing together a service consisting of television, Internet, mobile phone and fixed-line telephone services.

[[Be Unlimited]]

CATEGORIES: Internet service providers, 2004 establishments in the United Kingdom

Be Unlimited, or simply "Be", is a growing UK Internet service provider. Be Unlimited and Be are trading names of Be Un Limited.

[[Demon Internet]]

CATEGORIES: Internet service providers

Demon Internet is a British Internet Service Provider ("ISP") and was founded 1992. It was one of the earliest ISPs, especially targeting the "dialup" audience starting on 1 June 1992 from an idea posted on CIX by Cliff Stanford of Demon Systems Ltd.

Currently, Demon Internet is operating as a brand of Vodafone.

[[List of General Secretaries of the Soviet Union]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the Soviet Union, Lists of heads of state, 1922 establishments in the Soviet Union, 1991 disestablishments in the Soviet Union

General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union was the top position in the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. As the leader of the only legal political party, the General Secretary served as both the head of government and head of state, although the actual head of government was the Premier. Before Stalin turned the position of General Secretary into the most powerful in the Soviet Union, the Premier was the leader of the country. Lenin led the nation as Premier.

The office was called First Secretary from 1953–1966.

[[Bachelor]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage

A bachelor is a man who has not been married and is not cohabiting. He lives on his own or with a flatmate/housemate. A woman in this situation is sometimes known as a bachelorette. A bachelor cannot have been married, as a man who married but then divorced is called a divorcé. A man whose wife is dead is a widower.

Sometimes, when a bachelor is going to be married, a bachelor party is organized to celebrate the last day that the person will be a bachelor for. 

[[Nativity scene]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas, Depictions of Mary (mother of Jesus)

A nativity scene is a three-dimensional depiction of the Nativity of Jesus. It is also called a crib, manger or crèche. Typically, a large scale scene includes: the Holy Family, the angels, the Magi, the ox and the donkey, and an assortment of shepherds, villagers, servants and others.

There are two types of scenes: static representations of figures made of clay or other material and living scenes. Static scenes are often displayed on a table top in the home. In living scenes, humans and animals portray the characters in the scene.  

St. Francis of Assisi is said to have created the first nativity scene in 1223 (a "living" one) near Greccio, Italy. It was a "hit". The scene's popularity inspired communities throughout Catholic countries to stage similar scenes.

In the modern world, nativity scenes have provoked controversy. Animals are said to be abused in living scenes and objections have been placed against static scenes displayed on public lands. In addition, outdoor scenes are often the target of vandals. Theft or destruction of outdoor figures is not uncommon.

[[KBO]]

KBO can mean:

[[Underwater diving]]

CATEGORIES: Diving

Underwater diving is going underwater to do things. There are different reasons to do this:

There are also different ways to dive:

[[Static electricity]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Static electricity means the increase of electric charge on the surface of objects. This electric charge remains on an object until it either flows into the ground, or loses its charge quickly by a discharge. Charge exchange can happen in conditions like when different objects are rubbed and separated. A static charge will only remain when one of the surfaces has a high resistance to electrical flow. The effects of static electricity are familiar to most people because they can see, feel and even hear the spark. This spark happens when the excess charge is neutralized. This neutralization occurs when excess charge flows into an electrical conductor (for example a path to ground). Other charge flow occurs when a charged object is near a region with an excess charge of the opposite polarity (positive or negative). The familiar phenomenon of a static 'shock' is caused by the neutralization of charge.

[[Submandibular gland]]

CATEGORIES: Mouth, Glands

The submandibular glands are salivary glands. They are under the bottom part of the mouth.

[[Military diving]]

CATEGORIES: Military

Military diving is underwater diving done by members of armed forces for military purposes.

Any method of diving may be used. It is the military purpose that makes it military diving.

Military diving for offensive purposes is usually done using rebreathers as they do not make much bubbles which can be seen by the enemy. These divers may be called frogmen or combat divers.

Othe military divers do work to remove obstructions and explosive devices like mines. They are called clearance divers. 

Military divers may also do inspections and repair work on the bottoms of ships, and underwater work in support of military engineering operations.

[[Dagens Næringsliv]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers, Companies of Norway, 1889 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Norway

Dagens Næringsliv is one of Norway's main newspapers. The newspaper was first named Norges Sjøfartstidende. It was founded in 1889.

In July 2015, one former journalist said that he had done plagiarism, in several articles he wrote for the newspaper, said the website of the trade union, Norsk Journalistlag.

[[FSK]]

CATEGORIES: Special Forces, Norway, 1981 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in Norway

FSK (Forsvarets spesialkommando) is the name of the special forces of Norway's Ministry of Defence.  They were established in 1981.

[[Piping and instrumentation diagram]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A piping and instrument diagram (P&ID) is a simplified illustration or diagram of a process. It shows the required functional equipment and instrumentation to make the process work. Typically, this document is the basis of design for plant engineering.

[[Zifeng Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in China, Nanjing

Nanjing Greenland Financial Center or Greenland Square Zifeng Tower is a skyscraper in Nanjing, China. It is 459 meters (1476 feet) tall and has 89 floors. It was built in 2009 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

[[Modular arithmetic]]

CATEGORIES: Arithmetics

Modular arithmetic, sometimes also called clock arithmetic, is a way of doing arithmetic with integers. Much like hours on a clock, which repeat every twelve hours, once the numbers reach a certain value, called the modulus, they go back to zero.

People talked about modular arithmetic in many ancient cultures. For instance, the Chinese remainder theorem is many centuries old. The modern notation and exact definition of modular arithmetic were first described by Carl Friedrich Gauss.

[[Live – Friday the 13th]]

CATEGORIES: Live CD, 2005 albums, Maroon 5 albums

Live – Friday the 13th is a live album released on Sept. 20th, 2005. The album was released as a live CD/DVD album featuring all 12 original songs from Pop band Maroon 5's hit debut called Songs About Jane. This album has been released with the Copy Control protection system in some regions. The CD has the length of 77:58. 

[[Tropicana Field]]

CATEGORIES: Tampa Bay Rays, Sports buildings in Florida, St. Petersburg, Florida, 1990 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Florida

Tropicana Field is a domed baseball stadium that serves as the home field for the Tampa Bay Rays since 1998. The stadium was opened in 1990 in hopes of snatching a team away from another city. Two teams almost moved to Tampa to call Tropicana Field home; they were the Chicago White Sox and the San Francisco Giants. They stadium also served as the former home for the NHL team, Tampa Bay Lightning and the former home for the AFL's Tampa Bay Storm. Current Rays manager, Joe Maddon, has nicknamed the stadium "The Pit". While the fans nicknamed it "The Trop". The former name of the stadium was the Florida Suncoast Dome. It has also been called the Thunderdome.

[[Jin Mao Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in China, Buildings and structures in Shanghai

Jin Mao Tower is a skyscraper in Shanghai, China.  It is 1380 tall. It has 88 floors.  It was built between 1994 and 1999 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

[[Two International Finance Centre]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in China, Buildings and structures in Hong Kong

Two International Finance Centre (abbr. 2 IFC, branded as "ifc") is a skyscraper in Hong Kong.  It is 415 meters (1362 feet) tall and has 88 floors.  It was built in 2003 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

[[Gentoo penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins, Animals of Antarctica

The gentoo penguin (Pygoscelis papua) is a species of penguin easily recognized by the white stripe across its head. They are the largest penguins of the stiff-tailed family, which also makes them the largest penguin except the two giant penguins, the emperor penguin and the king penguin.

[[Megabat]]

CATEGORIES: Bats

Megabats are also called Old World fruit bats. They are the suborder Megachiroptera, family Pteropodidae of the order Chiroptera (bats).

These fruit bats are flying mammals that live in dense forests in Africa, Europe, Australia, and Asia. There are about 166 species of fruit bats. Fruit bats are sometimes known as flying foxes. These bats live in huge colonies, known as "camps." These nocturnal (most active at night) animals rest during the day while hanging upside down from their feet. 

[[Flag of Florida]]

CATEGORIES: United States state flags, Florida

The Flag of Florida is a white flag with the Seal of Florida centered on it. Behind the Seal, it has a red saltire, which resembles the Spanish Cross of Burgundy flag used in Florida since the early 1500s. The current flag was adopted in 1900, however the State Seal in the center of the flag was updated in 1985 to reflect the proper historical dress of a Seminole maiden, in the previous seal she was dressed in buckskin with a feathered headband.

[[Flag of Libya]]

CATEGORIES: Libya, National flags, 1951 establishments, 1969 disestablishments, 2011 establishments

The Flag of Libya has three horizontal stripes of red, black, and green, with a white crescent and star in the center of the black stripe.  It has been the official flag of Libya since 3 August 2011. 

[[Chambar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Chambar, or Chamber, is a town of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. It is the capital Chamber Taluka (a subdivision of the district). The town itself is subdivided into two Union Councils. 

[[2008 Formula One World Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One seasons, 2008 in sports

The 2008 Formula One season was the 59th FIA Formula One World Championship season. It began on March 16 and was over on November 2 after eighteen races. Lewis Hamilton became the Drivers' World Champion while Scuderia Ferrari Marlboro won the Constructors' title.

[[New York Film Critics Circle Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Movie awards, Organizations in New York City

New York Film Critics Circle Awards are awards given every year for excellence in cinema worldwide. They are given by an organization of movie critics from New York City-based publications. It is considered one of the most important movie critics awards in North America.

[[Duncan II of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens of Scotland, 11th century births, 1094 deaths

Donnchad mac Maíl Coluim (Modern Gaelic: Donnchadh mac Mhaoil Chaluim) renamed as Duncan II (before c. 1060 – 12 November 1094) was king of Scots. He was son of Malcolm III (Máel Coluim mac Donnchada) and his first wife Ingibiorg Finnsdottir, widow of Thorfinn Sigurdsson.

[[Messolonghi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Messolonghi is a Greek city. It is the capital of the Aitoloakarnania prefecture. It is build on the bank of a lagoon. Its population is 14,209 inhabitants. Messolonghi is known because of the Greek War of Independence. During that time the siege of Messolonghi took place. During the siege the residents of Messolonghi fought with the Turks and the majority of them were killed there. During the siege of Messolonghi Lord Byron died, in 1824.

[[Kalamata]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Kalamata is a Greek city. It is in the southwest of the Peloponnese peninsula. 54,065 people live there. Kalamata it is built at the foot of Taygetos mountain. It is also a coastal city and it has a big beach, in front of the city.

[[Matt Joyce]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, American baseball players, Detroit Tigers players, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim players, Oakland Athletics players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, Tampa Bay Rays players, Sportspeople from Tampa, Florida

Matthew R. Joyce (born August 3, 1984) is an outfielder for the Oakland Athletics. He has also played for the Detroit Tigers, Tampa Bay Rays, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, and Pittsburgh Pirates.

In 2011, Joyce was picked to play in the Major League Baseball All-Star Game.

[[Foundation]]

Foundation might mean:

[[CITIC Plaza]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in China, Guangzhou

CITIC Plaza is a skyscraper in Guangzhou, China.  It is 391 meters (1283 feet) tall and has 80 floors.  It was built in 1997 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

[[Shun Hing Square]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in China, Guangdong

Shun Hing Square is a skyscraper in Shenzhen, China.  It is 384 meters (1260 feet) tall and has 69 floors.  It was built in 1996 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

[[Chase Tower (Indianapolis)]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in the United States, Buildings and structures in Indiana, Indianapolis, Indiana, 1990 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Indiana

Salesforce Tower is a skyscraper in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States.  It is 247 meters (811 feet) tall and has 49 floors and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.  It was built in 1990 and was named Bank One Tower.  In 2004 its name was changed to Chase Tower because Chase Bank bought Bank One Corporation. In 2017 its name was changed again, to Salesforce Tower because Salesforce bought the naming rights.

[[Harald V of Norway]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Kings and Queens of Norway, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order, Recipients of the Decoration for Services to the Republic of Austria, Current national leaders

Harald V (born 21 February 1937) is the King of Norway. His father was Olav V of Norway. He became king in 1991. Harald was born in Skaugum, Akershus, Norway.

In 1968, he married Sonja Haraldsen. They had two children: Princess Märtha Louise and Prince Haakon.

[[Gray whale]]

CATEGORIES: Baleen whales

The gray whale (Eschrichtius robustus) is a baleen whale (a filter feeder) that has a layer of blubber up to 10 inches (25 cm) thick. Because a mother gray whale would defend her calf so fiercely it would actually attack whalers and overturn their boats, whalers often called the gray whale a devilfish. 

The gray whale migrates from cold waters to the tropics each year in pods. Gray whales are very agile swimmers. They can dive for up to 30 minutes and go 500 feet (155 m) deep. Gray whales make grunts, clicks, and whistling sounds which may be used to communicate with other gray whales.

[[Chase Tower (Chicago)]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in Chicago, 1969 establishments in Illinois

Chase Tower is a skyscraper in Chicago, United States.  It is 259 meters (850 feet) tall and has 60 floors.  It was built in 1969 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world.

[[Le Père Fouettard]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas

Le Père Fouettard (French for The whipping Father) was a character who went with Saint Nicholas in his rounds at Christmas giving the naughty children the whip  while St. Nick gives gifts to the well behaved.

He wore a long, dirty, dark colored robe and had a beard that was poorly groomed.

He is known mainly in the Eastern regions of France. In Alsace, Le Père Fouettard is synonymous with the bogeyman.

[[Dryococelus australis]]

CATEGORIES: Phasmids

Dryococelus australis, also known as the Lord Howe Island stick insect or tree lobster, is a phasmid which is sometimes called a land lobster. It was thought to have become extinct in 1930, but more were found in 2001. It no longer lives on Lord Howe Island which was its main habitat. It is now only found on the small rock island called Ball's Pyramid. With less than 30 of the stick insects left alive in the wild, it has been called "the rarest insect in the world". Melbourne Zoo has been able to breed the stick insects with more than 9,000 hatched. It is hoped that the insects will be released back on Lord Howe Island in the future.

[[Basking shark]]

CATEGORIES: Sharks

The basking shark (Cetorhinus maximus) is a huge filter-feeding shark, which can grow up to the length of 40 feet (12 metres). It is the second largest shark in the world (after the whale shark). The basking shark is also called the sunfish, the bone shark, the elephant shark, the sailfish shark, and the big mouth shark.

[[Chamber Taluka]]

CATEGORIES: Talukas of Sindh, Tando Allahyar District

Chamber Taluka is an administrative subdivision (taluka) of Tando Allahyar District in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The city of Chambar is the capital.

[[Fortress]]

CATEGORIES: Fortification

A fortress is a building designed to be defended, which means it was very hard for enemies to get inside. Fortification kept the people inside safe. There is little difference between a fortress and a castle. Fortresses normally have thick stone walls, thicker but less tall than in castles so artillery cannot break them. There were very small windows, without glass, so that soldiers inside could fire out through them. As time passed, the weapons they used changed, from bow and arrow, crossbow, gun or cannon. Soldiers outside had great difficulty firing into such small windows. The people defending the fortress were also able to drop things like rocks and boiling oil on the heads of those below. Successful attacks were usually sieges. 

Fortresses were not designed for comfort. They were dark and often damp. The Tower of London is an example of a fortress.

[[Malay alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabets

The modern Malay alphabet is based on the Latin alphabet. It is used to write Malay.

It contains the same letters as the English language alphabet. Q, V, and X are not used in native Malay words. The Malay alphabet contains 26 letters:

[[Central Plaza]]

CATEGORIES: Central Plaza, Hong Kong, Skyscrapers in China, Buildings and structures in Hong Kong

Central Plaza is a skyscraper in Hong Kong.  It is 374 meters (1227 feet) tall and has 78 floors. It was built in 1992 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

[[Fin whale]]

CATEGORIES: Baleen whales

The fin whale (Balaenoptera physalus) is a huge baleen whale. It is the second largest animal on Earth (the blue whale is the biggest). This whale is sometimes called the "greyhound of the sea" because of its fast swimming speed; it can swim up to 23 mph (37 km/hr) in short bursts. The fin whale is also called the finback, finner, razorback, common rorqual, and herring whale.

[[James Skinner (soldier)]]

CATEGORIES: 1778 births, 1841 deaths, Indian people, People of British India

James Skinner CB (1778 – December 4, 1841) was an Anglo-Indian military adventurer in India.

Skinner was born in India, son of Lieutenant-Colonel Hercules Skinner and a Rajput lady. Because of his Indian heritage, Skinner was unable to serve as an officer in the East India Company army and, at the age of eighteen, he entered the Mahratta army under Benoît de Boigne, where he soon showed military talent. He remained in the same service under Pierre Cuillier-Perron until 1803, when, on the outbreak of the second Anglo-Maratha War all Anglo-Indians were dismissed from Mahratta service.

[[Nauplion]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Nauplion is a Greek city. It is in the Argolida's prefecture, in the east of Peloponnese peninsula. Near Nauplio is the historical city of Argos. Nauplio was the first capital of Greece. Nauplio is a coastal city. It has three castles. The most famous are the Palamidi castle, and Bourtzi castle which is on the islet in front of the port. The population of Nauplion is 13,124 inhabitants. 

[[Lincoln, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Lincoln is a city in Talladega County, Alabama, United States. At the 2012 census the population was 6,337.

[[Linden, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Linden is a city in and the county seat of Marengo County, Alabama, United States. The population was 2,424 at the 2000 census.

[[Lineville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Lineville is a city in Clay County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,401.

[[Lipscomb, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Lipscomb is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,458.

[[Livingston, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Livingston is a city in Sumter County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 3,297. The city is the county seat of Sumter County.

[[Luverne, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Luverne is a city in Crenshaw County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 2,635. The city is the county seat of Crenshaw County.

[[Iridaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Iridaceae

Iridaceae are perennial herbs from rhizomes, bulbs or corms comprising about 80 genera and 1,500 species. The leaves are distichous and have a sheathing, equitant base and a generally ensiform or linear blade with parallel venation. The flowers are bisexual, usually showy, and are actinomorphic or zygomorphic.

Some genera:

[[Tampa Bay Area]]

CATEGORIES: Tampa, Florida, Metropolitan areas of the United States

The Tampa Bay Area is an area in West Central Florida that includes Tampa and St. Pete. Among notable residents is John Cena, a WWE pro wrestler and former 3-time WWE Champion and reigning World Heavyweight Champion.

[[Live at Wembley '86]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums, Queen albums

Live at Wembley '86 is a set of two discs recorded by English rock band Queen.

It was recorded live on Saturday July 12, 1986 during the Magic Tour at Wembley Stadium in London, England and was released on May 26, 1992.

A DVD was released in June 2003. The album was re-sold in a new CD with bonus tracks in August 2003 in the United States as Live at Wembley Stadium after the DVD.

[[Trams in Melbourne]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport in Melbourne, Tram transport, Rail transport in Australia

Melbourne, Australia introduced trams in 1885 and now it is the largest tram network in the world, consisting of 250 of tracks, 450 trams, 25 routes, and 1,700 tram stops. The trams are powered using 600V DC delivered by overhead wires and run on standard gauge track. Currently operated by a private company, Yarra Trams under contract from the Victorian Government, the owner of the network. Melbourne's trams give a lot to the city's distinctive character and are loved by the people of Melbourne. 

In 2015-16, a total of 203 million passengers took rides on Melbourne’s trams.

[[Lincoln City F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, 1884 establishments in England

Lincoln City F.C. is an English football team currently playing in Football League Two (the fourth tier of the English football league system).

The team play at the 10,127 capacity Sincil Bank in Lincoln, Lincolnshire, and are nicknamed the Imps after the legend of the Lincoln Imp. More recently, they have also been known as the Red Imps. Traditionally they play in red and white striped shirts with black shorts and red and white socks.

[[Neamț County]]

CATEGORIES: Neamţ County, Counties of Romania

Neamţ (neamʦ) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in the historic region of Moldavia, with the county seat at Piatra Neamţ.

[[Retezat Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Retezat, Mountain ranges of the Carpathians, Mountains of Romania

The Retezat Mountains (Munţii Retezat, Retyezát-hegység) are one of the highest massifs in Romania. They are part of the Southern Carpathians. The highest peak is Peleaga (Vârful Peleaga), at an altitude of 2509. Other important peaks are Păpuşa (Varful Păpuşa) and Retezat Peak (Vârful Retezat).

The Retezat Mountains have many glacial lakes. The largest glacial lake in Romania, Bucura Lake (lacul Bucura) is in these mountains. It covers 8.9 and is located at an altitude of 2030 metres. The area also contains the Retezat National Park, Romania's first national park.

[[Swainsona formosa]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Australia

Swainsona formosa, commonly called Sturt's Desert Pea, is the floral emblem of South Australia It was named after explorer Charles Sturt.

This plant is a part of the pea family, Fabaceae. It is only found in Australia. It grows in the drier areas of the country except in Victoria. Explorer William Dampier was the first European to collect a sample of the plant. He found it growing in what is now called the Dampier Archipelago in Western Australia in 1699. 

[[Sturt's Desert Pea]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Australia

[[Gossypium sturtianum]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Australia

''Gossypium sturtianum'', commonly called Sturt's Desert Rose, is the floral emblem of the Northern Territory. It was named after explorer Charles Sturt who found the plant in creeks near the site of Broken Hill, New South Wales in 1844. He collected the seeds and brought them back for Robert Brown (1773-1858), a Scottish botanist, to study.

A stylized drawing of the flower is used on the Northern Territory's flag.

[[Sturt's Desert Rose]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Australia

[[University of San Francisco]]

CATEGORIES: Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, Landmarks in San Francisco, West Coast Conference, 1855 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in California

The University of San Francisco, is a private Jesuit university founded in 1855 in San Francisco, California, and is the oldest university in San Francisco.

[[Hurricane Nora (1997)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 in California, 1997 Pacific hurricane season, 1990s in Mexico, 1990s in Arizona

Hurricane Nora was the first hurricane to cause a significant danger to the Continental United States since Kathleen in 1976.

Part of a tropical wave that contributed to the formation of Hurricane Erika in the Atlantic moved into the Pacific and organized into Tropical Depression 16-E on September 16 and Tropical Storm Nora that same day. Nora became a hurricane in a favorable environment September 18 while moving northwest. Its motion then stalled over an upwelling of cooler water that weakened it.NHCNoraErika

On September 20, Nora again started moving. It reached its peak intensity of 115 knots and 950 mb  On September 21 and 22 it moved over the wake of Hurricane Linda. This weakened the storm pack down to a Category 1.NHCNoraIntensity

During this time, a trough developed that turned Nora to the northeast. This carried Nora over a favorable environment and towards Baja California. After restrengthening slightly, Nora made landfall as a Category 1 hurricane near Punta Eugenia and again south of San Fernando, both times as a hurricane.NHCNoraLandfalls

Nora stayed a tropical storm as it moved into the United States. Yuma reported sustained gale-force winds. Rains were heavy, sometimes exceeding the "annual" rainfall for the area. Nora weakened to a depression while over California, and it dissipated September 26.NHCNoraRainfall

Nora killed two people in Mexico. One was killed by a downed power line in Mexicali, and the other was a scuba diving in underwater currents. No one in the United States was directly killed by Nora. However, the California Highway Patrol attributed several traffic accident deaths to the weather.NHCNoraUSADeaths

There was extensive damage to areas hit by Nora. Waves ruined dozens of homes. Roughly 350 to 400 people were left homeless in San Felipe, and winds uprooted trees and peeled roofs from homes in Puerto Peñasco.NHCNoraDamageToPuertoPenasco

In the United States, thousands were left without power in California and Arizona, and 16 telephone poles were downed in Seeley. Streets flooded in San Diego, Indio, El Centro, and Palm Springs. A remnant circulation continued aloft, and damaged trees and three homes in Utah. Total damages were "several hundred million dollars", as well as 40 million dollars to lemon trees.NHCNoraTotalCost

Nora crossed an area of abnormally warm water near the west coast of the Baja California Peninsula. It restrengthened slightly before making its first landfall near Bahía Tortugas, Baja California Sur. When Nora was inland, the area of the storm located in the Gulf of California began to reintensify. Hurricane Nora then made a second landfall about 60 miles (95 km) south-southeast of San Fernando, Baja California.

At landfall, a trough was accelerating Nora northwards, causing it to reach a forward speed of 30 mph (50 km/h). Late on September 25 (UTC), still a tropical storm, it entered the continental United States at the California-Arizona state line. Nora began to weaken rapidly, and was downgraded to a tropical depression three hours later, while located between Blythe and Needles, California. Nora reached Arizona while still tropical, becoming the third known system to do so. Nora degenerated over land, and the low-level center moved towards the north-northeast. A remnant circulation aloft persisted, however, and was likely responsible for a period of near hurricane-force winds observed at the NWS Cedar City, Utah Doppler weather radar. The remnants gradually became more diffuse over the following two days while moving generally northeastward, through portions of Utah, Colorado, Idaho and Wyoming.

On September 24, Arizona Governor Jane Dee Hull activated an emergency response center to prepare the state's response to the flash flooding the storm would cause on the dry desert floor, and Yuma residents began to fill approximately 55,000 sandbags to contain the possible flooding. Hull also activated the state's National Guard, and sent drinking water and electric generators to Yuma. Farther inland, the National Weather Service issued flash flood watches for western Arizona, southeastern California, southwestern Colorado, southern Nevada and southern Utah on September 26.

In the United States, there were no direct deaths blamed on the hurricane. However, the California Highway Patrol attributed three or four traffic fatalities in southern California to the weather.

Damage totals in the United States are not fully known, although media summaries of Nora included a loss to agriculture preliminarily estimated at several hundred million dollars, and at least one study places the figure at $150–200 million (1997 USD). It is estimated that $30–40 million (1997 USD) in damage to lemon trees occurred. Although Nora was significantly weakened, near hurricane-force winds were observed at the Dixie National Forest in southwestern Utah, where strong gusts sheared off the tops of large trees.

The Yuma radar indicated a small area of 10 rainfall totals along the northern Gulf of California coast of Baja California. In the United States, the largest total rainfall was recorded at the Harquahala Mountains in Arizona, where 11.97 of rainfall were recorded as a result of Nora, causing flash floods in western Arizona.

Near Phoenix, rainfall from the storm caused the Narrows Dam, a small earthen dam, to fail. In other locations in Arizona, California, Nevada, and Utah, more than 3 occurred in a few localized areas, sometimes with precipitation comparable to the entire local yearly average rainfall. Flooding was also reported in Somerton, San Diego, El Centro, Palm Springs and Indio, while 12,000 people lost power in Yuma, as well as Los Angeles and southwestern Utah.

Despite the damage, the World Meteorological Organization did not retire the name Nora during its meeting in the spring of 1998. As a result, it was used in the 2003 Pacific hurricane season and is on the list of names to be used in 2009.

[[Mureș County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania, Transylvania

Mureş ('mu.reʃ, Maros) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in the historical region of Transylvania. The capital of Mureş County is Târgu Mureş.

[[Hurricane Dog (1950)]]

CATEGORIES: Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes, Hurricanes in the United States, 1950 in the United States, Antigua and Barbuda

Hurricane Dog was the strongest hurricane in the 1950 Atlantic hurricane season. It was the fourth named storm of the season. Dog began on August 30 to the east of Antigua. After passing through the northern Lesser Antilles, the storm turned to the north and became a Category 5 hurricane. Dog reached its highest strength of 185 mph (295 km/h) winds over the ocean. The hurricane weakened and passed within 200 miles (320 km) of Cape Cod before becoming extratropical on September 12.

Hurricane Dog caused high damage to the Leeward Islands, and was said to be the strongest hurricane on record in Antigua. Many buildings were destroyed or damaged on the island. In the United States, the hurricane caused damage along the coast. It damaged several boats and caused 11 people to drown. Strong winds caused large power outages across southeastern New England. Damage along Hurricane Dog's track totaled to about $3 million (1950 USD, $25.7 million 2007 USD).

[[Kingdom of Württemberg]]

CATEGORIES: Former states in Germany, States of the Holy Roman Empire, 11th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Germany, 1918 disestablishments in Germany

Württemberg ˈvʏɐtɛmˌbeɐk, formerly known as Wirtemberg, is an area and a former state in southwestern Germany, including parts of the regions Swabia and Franconia. It was originally a Duchy but was raised to a Kingdom in 1806. 

[[Tiraspol]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Moldova

Tiraspol (Russian: Тирасполь and Ukrainian: Тираспіль) is the second biggest city of Moldova and the capital city of Transnistria.

[[Sukhumi]]

CATEGORIES: Abkhazia, Settlements in Georgia (country)

Sukhumi or Sokhumi (სოხუმი) is the capital and largest city of the breakaway independent  Republic of Abkhazia.

Sokhumi was a multi-ethnic city. The people were Georgians, Abkhazians (Apsuans), Russians, Turks, Armenians and Greeks during Soviet Rule. During the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict Georgians in Abkhazia were forced to leave. Most Greeks have also left.

[[Tskhinvali]]

CATEGORIES: South Ossetia, Cities in Europe, Cities in Asia

Tskhinvali is the capital city of South Ossetia.

[[Mariehamn]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Finland, Åland Islands, Capital cities in Europe

Mariehamm (Maarianhamina) is the capital city of the Åland Islands, an autonomous region in Finland. As of January 2014, more than 11,400 people lived in Mariehamm. Many ships sail between Mariehamn and the port of Turku.

[[Funchal]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Portugal, Municipalities of Portugal, Madeira Islands, 1424 establishments, Establishments in Portugal, 1420s establishments in Europe

Funchal is the capital city of Madeira, part of Portugal.  It is also the largest city of Madeira with 111,892 people.

Funchal is in a valley.  It has even temperatures all year round.  There is a rainier and slightly cooler season from October through March.  A drier and warmer season lasts from April through September.

[[Simferopol]]

CATEGORIES: Republic of Crimea

Simferopol (Сімферополь) was the capital city of Crimea, Ukraine. It became the capital city of the Republic of Crimea on March 11, 2014.

[[Chess boxing]]

CATEGORIES: Chess

Chess boxing is a mixed sport which puts together the sport of boxing with games of chess in every other round. Chess boxing fights have been done since early 2003. The sport was started when Dutch artist Iepe Rubingh, given the idea by a similar sport in the writing of Enki Bilal, started actual matches. The sport has become more well known since then. To do well at chess boxing, players must be both good chess players and good boxers.

[[Iepe Rubingh]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2020 deaths, Dutch artists, Chess, People from Rotterdam

Iepe B. T. Rubingh (ˈipə; 17 August 1974 – 9 May 2020) was a Dutch  artist who was best known for starting chess boxing in 2003. He was born in Rotterdam.

Rubingh died on 9 May 2020 in Berlin, aged 45.

[[Teresa Stratas]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Singers from Toronto, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Musical theater actors, Opera singers, Sopranos, Actors from Toronto, Grammy Award winners

Teresa Stratas (born May 26, 1938) is a Canadian soprano opera singer and actress. She was born in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Stratas has won 3 Grammy Awards and been nominated for a Tony Award

[[Beth Groundwater]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Virginia, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people

Beth Groundwater is an American author who has written two novels in the Claire Hanover gift basket designer mystery series, A Real Basket Case and To Hell in a Handbasket. The first, published in March, 2007, was put up for the Best First Novel Agatha Award in 2007.  The sequel, To Hell in a Handbasket was published in May, 2009.  She writes in the Mystery genre, and has also written several short stories.

[[Yanina Batyrchina]]

CATEGORIES: Russian gymnasts, 1979 births, Living people

Yana (Yanina) Batyrshina (Russian:Яна (Янина) Фархадовна Батыршина, born October 07, 1979 in Tashkent, Uzbek SSR, Soviet Union)  is a former Individual Rhythmic Gymnast. She competed for Russia. She was born to Tatar father and Jewish mother.

[[A Real Basket Case]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 books, Novels

A Real Basket Case is a fictional mystery novel that was written by Beth Groundwater. It was published by Five Star Publishing on March 21, 2007. It was later re-published in large print in January 2008. The novel follows the story of Claire Hanover who sets out to find out who murdered her husband.

It was put up for the Best First Novel Agatha Award in 2007. The sequel, To Hell in a Handbasket is scheduled to be published in 2009.

[[Right Now (Leon Jackson album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Debut albums, Pop albums, Jazz albums, Soul albums

Right Now is the debut album by X Factor winner Leon Jackson.

[[Leon Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, British pop musicians, Jazz musicians, Scottish rock musicians, Scottish singers, The X Factor winners

Leon Jackson (born 30 December 1988) is a Scottish singer. He won the 2007 UK series of the television show The X Factor. His singles are "When You Believe", "Don't Call This Love" and "Creative". His album is Right Now.

[[Karditsa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Karditsa is a Greek city. It is in the center of Greece in the district of Thessaly. It had 35,971 people according to the 2001 census. Karditsa is build on the large plain which is named Thessaly plain. It is the second largest plain in Greece. So it is an agricultural city. Near Karditsa is the city of Trikala. The west of Karditsa is the Agrafa range. Agrafa is a part of Pindus range.  

[[Gooloogong, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Gooloogong is a small town in New South Wales. It is built on the banks of the Lachlan River. It is 57km south east of Forbes, 34 km north west of Cowra and 358 km west of the state capital, Sydney. There are about 250 people living in Gooloogong.

The town was established in the 1860s on what was the Pastoral Lease 'Goolagong'of Edward Sheahan from around 1840.

The town was originally built much closer to the Lachlan River, but was moved to higher ground because of floods.

John O'Meally is buried in an unmarked grave in the Anglican cemetery at Gooloogong. He was a member of Ben Hall's gang. He was shot dead when the gang tried to rob the Campbell's farm, Goimbla Station, on November 19, 1863.

[[Boorowa, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Boorowa is a small town in New South Wales. It is 66 from Yass. The town is built on the banks of the Boorowa River, which flows into the Lachlan River. The town was first called Burrowa. Boorowa and Burrowa are Aboriginal words in the Wiradjuri language meaning "birds". In 2008, there were 1350 living in Boorowa.

The first people to live in the area were the Wiraduri people. This was one of the largest tribes in New South Wales. They had several regular camping sites along the Lachlan and Boorowa Rivers. It is estimated that there were several thousand Wiradjuri people at the time of European settlement. A survey in 1851 showed that there were only 300 people left. Local Wiradjuri people were forced onto government reserves at Rye Park and Edgerton.

[[Guity Novin]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Canadian painters, Living people

Guity Novin (born Guity Navran), is a Persian-Canadian painter and sculptor. She has started a movement in painting that she has named Transpressionism. She was born in Kermanshah, Iran, in 1944. She now lives and works in Vancouver and Toronto. Guity Novin was graduated from the Faculty of Fine Arts in Tehran in 1970. After leaving Iran, she moved to The Hague, Netherlands in 1975, and then to Manchester, UK where she completed her studies.

She moved to Canada in 1980 and lived and exhibited in Kingston (Ontario), Montreal, and Ottawa and finally settled in Vancouver, British Columbia.

She has introduced the Transpressionism style in 1994. By using this style she tries to convey her passionate philosophical ideas.

She has served on a UNESCO national committee of artists.

[[Murringo, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Murringo is a small town in New South Wales. It is 25kms east of Young and 406 km west of the state capital, Sydney. The town was in the area often robbed by the bushranger, Ben Hall.

[[Wellington, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Wellington is a town in New South Wales. It is where the Macquarie and Bell Rivers join together.  The town is the centre of the Wellington Shire Local Government Area.  The town is 362kms from Sydney on the Great Western Highway and Mitchell Highway. The average summer temperatures are between 17.5º Celsius and 31.7º Celsius. In winter the temperatures are between 1.5º Celsius and 15º Celsius. In 2001 there were 4,672 people living in Wellington. There were 9,200 people living in the Wellington Shire.

[[White Christmas]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas

A white Christmas means that at least an inch of snow has fallen on Christmas Morning. This is more common in some countries than in others.  

For example, in  the United Kingdom, there are not a lot of White Christmases; but in Canada, there is almost always a White Christmas. Ireland's last "official" White Christmas was in 2004.

[[Binalong, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Binalong is a small town in New South Wales, Australia. It is 37 km north-west of Yass. 

[[Astro]]

Astro can refer to:

[[Astro (satellite TV)]]

CATEGORIES: Television, Kuala Lumpur

Astro is a subscription-based direct broadcast satellite service based in Bukit Jalil, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. It transmits digital satellite television and radio to households in Malaysia, Brunei, Indonesia and Singapore. Astro is owned by MEASAT Broadcast Network Systems, which is a subsidiary of Astro All Asia Networks plc.

[[Muscle Shoals, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Muscle Shoals is a city in Colbert County, Alabama, United States. As of 2006, the United States Census Bureau estimated the population of the city to be 12,703.

[[Moulton, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Alabama, Cities in Alabama

Moulton is a city in Lawrence County, Alabama. It is included in the Decatur Metropolitan Area, as well as the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 3,260. The city is the county seat of Lawrence County.

[[Montevallo, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Montevallo is a city in Shelby County, Alabama, United States. A college town, it is the home of the University of Montevallo, a public liberal arts university with around 3000 students. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city of Montevallo was 4,825.

[[Monroeville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Alabama, Cities in Alabama

Monroeville is a city in Monroe County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 6,862. The city is the county seat of Monroe County.

[[Millbrook, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Millbrook is a city in Autauga and Elmore counties in the U.S. state of Alabama.  The population was 10,386 at the 2000 census. It is part of the Montgomery Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Madison, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Madison is a city in Limestone and Madison counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. It is included in the Huntsville-Decatur Combined Statistical Area. As of the 2006 Census Bureau estimates, the population of the city was 36,824.

Madison is close to the Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama, a major US army installation.  Redstone Arsenal expanded in the 2000s when it took over the work of other Army installations that closed.  Madison is one of the fastest growing communities in Alabama.  The region's economy is also supported by NASA (the Marshall Space Flight Center), and major defense contractors.

Madison is served by a good public school system and by numerous private schools.  Some of the accredited private schools are Madison Academy, Westminster Christian Academy, Randolph School, and Faith Christian Academy.

[[Marion, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Alabama, Cities in Alabama

Marion is the county seat of Perry County, Alabama6. As of the 2010 census, the population of the city was 3,686. The city was first called Muckle Ridge. It was renamed after a hero of the American Revolution, Francis Marion.

[[Midfield, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Midfield is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 5,626.

[[Fairhope, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Fairhope is a city in Baldwin County, Alabama. It is on a sloping plateau, along the cliffs and shoreline of Mobile Bay. As of the 2000 census, 12,480 people lived there.

[[Fairfield, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, 1910 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Alabama

Fairfield is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. It is a suburb of Birmingham.  The population was 12,381 at the 2000 census. Fairfield was founded in 1910.

[[Fultondale, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Fultondale is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. It is a northern suburb of Birmingham. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 6,595. As of 2006, was estimated to be 6,905.

[[Fruithurst, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Fruithurst is a city in Cleburne County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 270.

[[Fort Payne, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Alabama, Cities in Alabama

Fort Payne is a city in DeKalb County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 12,938. The city is the county seat of DeKalb County.  The city calls itself the "Official Sock Capital of the World."

A magnitude 4.9 earthquake occurred here in 2003.

[[Fort Mitchell, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Fort Mitchell is a community of 1,400 people in Russell County, Alabama, USA. It is south of Phenix City. The area was first a garrisoned fort. It was meant to help defend the area during the Creek War.

[[Foley, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Foley is a city in Baldwin County, Alabama, United States. The 2000 census lists the population of the city as 7,590.

[[Florence, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Alabama, Cities in Alabama

Florence is a city in and the county seat of Lauderdale County, Alabama, United States. It is in the northwestern corner of the state.

[[Florala, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Florala is a city in Covington County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 1,964.

[[Fayette, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Alabama, Cities in Alabama

Fayette is a city in Fayette County, Alabama, United States. The 2000 census lists the population as 4,922. The city is the county seat of Fayette County.

[[Russellville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Alabama, Cities in Alabama

Russellville is a city in Franklin County in the U.S. state of Alabama. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 8,971. The city is the county seat of Franklin County.

[[Robertsdale, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Robertsdale is a city in Baldwin County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 3,782.

[[Roanoke, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Roanoke is a city in Randolph County, Alabama,  United States.

Roanoke is served by a weekly newspaper, The Randolph Leader. As of the 2000 census, the population of the city is 6,563.

[[Reform, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Reform is a city in Pickens County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 1,978.

[[Red Bay, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Red Bay is a city in Franklin County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 3,374.

[[Rainsville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, 1956 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Alabama

Rainsville is a city in DeKalb County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 4,499. Rainsville was incorporated in October of 1956.

[[Rainbow City, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Rainbow City is a city in Etowah County, Alabama, United States. It is part of the Gadsden Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Robert II of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens of Scotland, 1316 births, 1390 deaths

Robert II (2 March 1316 - 19 April 1390) was King of Scotland from 1371 through 1390. He was the first king of the House of Stewart. He is known as Robert the Steward and succeeded the popular David II to the throne. He was crowned in 1371 and had 1 child, Robert III or "Robert the Lame" with Elizabeth Mure, he was mentally unstable and was born as John Stewart, he changed his name to Robert as he would be crowned John II recognizing John Balliol's claim as legitimate which would spark war.

[[Robert III of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens of Scotland, 1340s births, 1406 deaths

[[Magic Tour]]

CATEGORIES: Queen (band), Concert tours, 1986 in Europe

The Magic Tour was the biggest and last tour by the English rock band Queen with their lead singer Freddie Mercury. The tour started in Sweden on 7 June 1986. It ended in England on 9 August 1987. The next band's tour Queen + Paul Rodgers Tour began about 19 years later, after the death of Freddie Mercury and the retirement of John Deacon. The tour included performances on 26 dates at Europe's stadiums. It was in support of their album A Kind of Magic.

In 1987, Mercury was diagnosed with HIV. The band made the decision together to stop touring. This made the concert at Knebworth on 9 August the last time the four members of Queen would perform onstage together.

[[James II of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1430 births, 1460 deaths, Kings and Queens of Scotland

James II (16 October 1430 - 3 August 1460) was King of Scotland from 1437 through 1460. He was born at Holyrood Palace, Edinburgh. He inherited the Scottish throne after the assassination of his father James I on February 21st 1437, only aged 6 and was crowned king of Scotland on March 25th 1437 at Holyrood Palace where he was born.

[[James III of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1450s births, 1488 deaths, Kings and Queens of Scotland

James III (c. 1451/1452 - 1488) was King of Scotland from 1460 through 1488.

[[James IV of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1473 births, 1513 deaths, Kings and Queens of Scotland, People excommunicated by the Catholic Church

James IV (17 March 1473 – 9 September 1513) was King of Scotland from 1488 through 1513. He was an effective ruler and popular king unlike his unpopular father James III of Scotland.

[[James V of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1512 births, 1542 deaths, Kings and Queens of Scotland

James V (1512-1542) was King of Scotland from 1513 through 1542. He was the father of Mary Queen of Scots.

[[George Butterworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1916 deaths, 20th century composers, English composers, Romantic composers, British military personnel of World War I

George Butterworth (born London, 12 July 1885; died Pozières, France,  5 August 1916) was an English composer.  He showed great talent as a young man and might have become one of England’s greatest composers if he had lived longer.   He was killed while fighting in World War I.  He is best known for a group of songs which are settings of poems by  A. E. Housman.

[[Charles Villiers Stanford]]

CATEGORIES: Irish composers, Romantic composers, 1852 births, 1924 deaths, Knights Bachelor

Sir Charles Villiers Stanford (born Dublin, 30 September 1852; died London,  29 March 1924) was an Irish composer who lived in England for most of his life.

[[Thaksin Shinawatra]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Thailand

Thaksin Shinawatra (born July 26, 1949) is a former Prime Minister of Thailand, and he is in exile (as of 2017). He is also a businessman, politician, . He is a former leader of the Thai Rak Thai Party.

[[Phitsanulok]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Thailand

Phitsanulok is an important province in history north of Thailand.

[[Chatuchak Weekend Market]]

CATEGORIES: Retail markets, Buildings and structures in Bangkok

Chatuchak Weekend Market (also spelled Jatujak) is a market in Bangkok. In the past, it was in Sanamluang. In Buddhist Era 2521, the government wanted this place to be the park for relaxing and exercising. Thailand’s government authorities train gave Pahonyothin area connected to southern of Chatuchak Weekend Market to make a new market so the Sanamluang market had moved there and changed the named after the area named “Pahonyothin area market”. In Buddhist Era 2530, it had been changed the named to “Chatuchak Weekend Market” until now. 

Nowadays Chatuchak Weekend Market has been made buying and selling culture and be famous around the world as the center of selling products. It has more than 112,000 square meters. Foreign tourists know Jatujak market as JJ market or Chatuchak Weekend Market.

[[List of professional wrestling terms]]

CATEGORIES: Sports lists, Professional wrestling, Glossaries

Professional wrestling has accrued a considerable amount of slang, in-references and jargon. Much of it stems from the industry's origins in the days of carnivals, and the slang itself is often referred to as "carny talk." Often wrestlers used this lingo in the presence of fans so as not to reveal the worked nature of the business. In recent years, widespread wrestling discussion on the Internet popularized the terms.

[[Nitrous oxide]]

CATEGORIES: Nitrogen compounds, Greenhouse gases

Nitrous oxide is a gas with the chemical formula N2O. It is found naturally in the air. It is also made artificially, because it has many uses. It is a strong greenhouse gas, almost 300 times more so, per molecule, than carbon dioxide) and about one thousandth as plentiful. Because it is a greenhouse gas, people are trying to use it less. 

[[Choral scholar]]

CATEGORIES: Education, Choirs

A choral scholar is a student at a university who gets money to help with the fees of his or her studies (a “scholarship”) in exchange for singing in the university’s choir.  Some private schools also have choral scholarships. 

In the United Kingdom there are choral scholarships available at schools belonging to a cathedral or to one of the university colleges in Oxford and Cambridge.  Some of these choirs are world famous for their church music such as the choirs of King’s College, Cambridge, St John’s College, Cambridge or New College, Oxford.  Choral scholars in such choirs will be expected to sing at the services in the morning and evening (late afternoon) on Sundays as well as at Evensong on several days during the week.  There will be rehearsals on most days.

[[Stanford]]

Stanford might mean: 

[[George Benjamin]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, 20th century composers, 21st century composers, English composers

George Benjamin (born 31 January, 1960, London, England) is a British composer.

Benjamin started playing piano when he was seven years old and soon started writing his first pieces of music.  In 1976 he went to study at the Paris Conservatoire where Olivier Messiaen taught him musical composition and Yvonne Loriod taught him the piano.  He then studied composition with Alexander Goehr at King’s College, Cambridge.

He was still only 20 when one of his compositions was played at the BBC Proms. Since then his works have been played by many famous orchestras.  He has worked regularly at the Tanglewood Festival. He has conducted famous orchestras like the London Sinfonietta, Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra and the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra.

George Benjamin lives in London where he is Professor of Composition at King’s College, London.  He has been given many honors including the Chevalier dans l’ordre des Arts et Lettres in 1996.

[[Episcopal High School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Virginia, 1839 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Virginia

Episcopal High School was founded in 1839.  It is a private boarding school in Alexandria, VA.  The school's nickname is 'The Holy Hill' and it's campus is 130 acres large.  Around 435 students live on the campus.  These students are from 30 states, the District of Columbia and 17 countries.  The school does not take any day students, all of the students have to live on campus.

[[Gordon Gray (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1982 deaths, Politicians from Baltimore, Maryland, People from North Carolina, United States National Security Advisors, United States Secretaries of the Army, Yale University alumni

Gordon Gray (May 30, 1909 – November 26, 1982) was a government official of the United States during the administrations of Harry Truman (1945-53) and Dwight Eisenhower (1953-61).

[[William Eustis]]

CATEGORIES: 1753 births, 1825 deaths, United States Secretaries of War, Governors of Massachusetts

William Eustis (June 21, 1753 – February 6, 1825) Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War. He served as United States Secretary of War from March 7, 1809 to January 13, 1813. He was appointed United States Ambassador to Holland by President James Madison, serving from 1814 to 1818.

[[Rheda-Wiedenbrück]]

CATEGORIES: Gütersloh Rural District

Rheda-Wiedenbrück is a town in the district of Gütersloh, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. About 46,000 people live there. The town is famous for a lot of old and fine houses, which were built hundreds of years ago.

[[Debrecen]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Hungary

Debrecen is a city in Hajdú-Bihar, Northern Great Plain, Hungary. It is Hungary's second largest city by population, after the capital, Budapest.

[[Bryan Adams discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies, Bryan Adams

[[Oryx]]

CATEGORIES: Bovines

The Oryx (also called the sabre antelope) is a fast-running hoofed mammal that lives in dry regions of Africa and Asia (including the Arabian peninsula). They live in steppes (sparse grasslands), semi-deserts, and deserts.

[[Kyogo Kawaguchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Japanese singers, Songwriters, People from Tochigi Prefecture

Kyogo Kawaguchi (born October 1, 1974 in Sano City, Tochigi Prefecture, Japan) is a Japanese singer-songwriter. 

He is now working towards world peace with "Chikyukyoudai" ("World Siblings"). His notable works include "Sakura". 

[[I WiSH]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese musical groups, Musical groups established in 2002, 2000s establishments in Japan, 2002 establishments in Asia, Musical groups disestablished in 2005, 2005 disestablishments, 21st century disestablishments in Japan

I WISH was a Japanese music group. Members were: ai and nao. Ai is the vocal and plays piano. Nao plays piano　and keyboard. They were famous　for "Asueno Tobira", but this group ended in 2005.

[[Dragon Ash]]

CATEGORIES: Alternative rock bands, Hip hop bands, Reggae bands, Japanese rock bands

Dragon Ash is a Japanese band. "Life goes on" is one of their popular songs.

[[Masaharu Fukuyama]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Japanese movie actors, Japanese television actors, Japanese singers, People from Nagasaki Prefecture

Masaharu Fukuyama is a Japanese singer and movie and television actor. He is from Nagasaki, Kyūshū. One of his most well-known songs is "Sakurazaka".

[[Okonomiyaki]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Okonomiyaki   is a Japanese food dish of a pan-fried batter cake and different ingredients including meat, seafood, and vegetables. Most okonomiyaki has cabbage in it.

The name of this dish means "cook what you like". Okonomiyaki is mainly associated with Kansai or Hiroshima, but is widely available throughout the country.

Okonomiyaki is the popular food in Japan. In postwar Hiroshima, okonomiyaki was invented to save a few wheat flour  and vegetables (for example, cabbage, bean sprout, green onion and so on.) because foods are shortage. It is called "okonomiyaki (fried liking foods)" because people made okonomiyaki to include their favorite foods in the past.

[[Ōmisoka]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, Buddhism

The New Year's Eve is called "Omisoka" in Japan. People in Japan often eat "Toshikoshi soba (年越し蕎麦）)”. People eat it with the wish of living a simple and long life next year.

[[Advent]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas, Liturgical calendar

The Season of Advent, which begins on a Sunday about four weeks before Christmas Day, is celebrated by most Christian Churches, as well as some other Christian communities. It is a time for people to prepare themselves for two different things: for the coming of the baby Jesus and Christmas, and for the Second Coming of Jesus, when he shall rule over all the Earth in peace. Not all Christian people remember Advent. Some people use it as a time of fasting, study, meditation and prayer. Special Advent Calendars are made for children, with pictures or treats for each day of Advent. In a lot of countries it is very common to have an advent wreath with 4 candles, every advent Sunday one candle more will be lighted so that on Advent 4th all 4 candles are burning and its bright, a symbol for Jesus as the light is coming to us on Christmas.

Generally, Advent is a time when many people are very busy in preparation for Christmas Day, cleaning and decorating, buying food and gifts, writing cards and letters, and cooking the Christmas feast. Some churches use special candles during advent.

But most important than any Christmas preparation is preparing your heart for the birth of Jesus who lights up our way to the father and saves our lives.

[[Pirog]]

CATEGORIES: Ukrainian food, Russia, Pies

Pyrih  (the plural is pyrohy) is a Ukrainian pie that can have either a sweet or savory filling. In Russia and Belarus it is called pirog (plural is pirogi).

[[Queens' College, Cambridge]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Cambridge

Queens' College is one of the colleges that make up the University of Cambridge in England. It was first founded in 1448 by Margaret of Anjou (the Queen of Henry VI), and refounded in 1465 by Elizabeth Woodville (the Queen of Edward IV). This is why the name of the college is spelt Queens' and not Queen's: it was founded by two queens. 

The President's Lodge of Queens' is the oldest building on the river at Cambridge, dating from about 1460.

The college is on both sides of the river Cam. A bridge joins the two parts. This bridge is always called the "Mathematical Bridge". The students call the older part of the college "The Dark Side" and the newer part "The Light Side".

Many people take photographs of the college. There is a story that the bridge was designed and built by Sir Isaac Newton without the use of nuts or bolts. The story says that once some students tried to take the bridge apart and put it back together again, but were unable to do so. That is why they had to put nuts and bolts in which can be seen today. The story is not true. The bridge was built in 1749, after Newton had died. It was never taken apart although it was rebuilt twice.

Stephen Fry is one of many famous people who have studied there.

[[Peace and Truce of God]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages, 13th-century disestablishments, 990s establishments, 10th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in France

The Peace of God was a movement begun by bishops in southern France around 990 CE to limit the violence done to property and to the unarmed. The Carolingian Empire had collapsed and the nobles were making war almost all the time.

The Truce of God extended the Peace by setting aside certain days of the week when violence was not allowed. Where the Peace of God limited violence against the church and the poor, the Truce of God was about preventing fighting between Christians, especially knights.

[[Desmoxytes purpurosea]]

CATEGORIES: Millipedes

The shocking pink dragon millipede (also called the dragon millipede (Desmoxytes purpurosea) is a millipede which has a bright pink color on its spiny body). It is very toxic. They have glands that release cyanide to protect them from predators.

The millipede has glands that produce hydrogen cyanide to protect it from predators, a fact advertised by its aposematic color. Because it produces cyanide, it smells like almonds.

It is one of a thousand new spcies found in the Greater Mekong region in the last ten years. It can be found at the Tai side of the Mekong river.

[[Scholarship]]

CATEGORIES: Education

A scholarship is financial help (money) given to someone who wants to study. Scholarships can be given by schools or by universities or colleges or any other institution where people can study or where research needs to be done.  It is similar to a bursary.

There are very many kinds of scholarships.  Some scholarships will cover all the tuition fees (money that the student needs to pay to study), others may just help towards the tuition fees.  Some scholarships may include money for other things such as food and accommodation.

Sometimes the students are expected to do something in return for having a scholarship.  They may, for example, be expected to do some particular work after they finish their studies, or they may need to help the institution in some way.  Quite often the amount of money a student gets will depend on how much money the family has.

Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women says that scholarship must be equally given for girls without discrimination.

[[Great egret]]

CATEGORIES: Ciconiiformes

The great egret (ardea alba) (also known an the common egret, large egret, great white egret, or great white heron) is a large wading bird found worldwide. 

It is the second-largest member of the heron family in America (second only to the great blue heron). It lives in mudflats, tidal shallows marshes, lakes, rivers and flooded paddy fields. It winters in the south down to Colombia. The great egret flies with slow wing beats and has a deep, croaking call. It is 90-102 cm long.

[[Leeds Triennial Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Classical music festivals, Music festivals in England, Leeds, 19th century establishments in England

The Leeds Triennial Festival was a festival of music held in the town of Leeds, Yorkshire in England.  The festival started in the 19th century at a time when very large choirs were in fashion.  Although there is now no festival called the Leeds Triennial Festival the town of Leeds continues to put on music festivals.

[[Trimeresurus trigonocephalus]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

The Trimeresurus trigonocephalus, commonly known as the "Sri Lankan Green Pit viper", is a species of venomous Pit vipers found in Sri Lanka. There are no subspecies currently recognized.

[[Venomous snake]]

CATEGORIES: Snakes, Venomous animals, Reptiles

A venomous snake is a snake that uses venom (poison) on prey to stop them and for self-defense.

[[Yoxall]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Staffordshire

Yoxall is a town in Staffordshire, England, UK. The river Swabourne flows through the town and it is close to the A515 road. 

[[Trimeresurus jerdonii]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

Trimeresurus jerdonii is a venomous pitviper species found in India (Assam), Burma, Tibet, China and Vietnam. Three subspecies are currently recognized, including this one.

[[AXXo]]

CATEGORIES: File sharing

aXXo is the Internet alias of an individual or group, who has been allegedly harassed by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) for copyright infringement. He is famous for converting DVD movies into computer files that can be uploaded into the Internet and be downloaded by other people for free.

[[Ernest Moeran]]

CATEGORIES: English composers, 20th century composers, 1894 births, 1950 deaths

Ernest Moeran (born Heston, Middlesex, England, 31 December 1894; died 1 December 1950) was an English composer.

[[Despatch rider]]

CATEGORIES: Army, Horse riding, Motorcycling

A despatch rider is someone in the army who delivers messages ("despatch" or "dispatch" means "to send someone or something off on a journey").  A despatch rider either rides a horse or a motorcycle.

Despatch riders were used by armies to send messages between headquarters and the fighting soldiers.  They might be delivering reports, but sometimes they took urgent messages which were often secret.  It was a very dangerous job.  Travelling between the lines of fighting armies the despatch rider could easily be blown up by a mine, shot by gunfire, or captured by the enemy.

Despatch riders always used to ride on horseback.  In the 20th century they usually rode motorcycles.  They were used a lot in World War I and even in World War II, although by the end of World War II electronic communications and cryptography had improved so that despatch riders were rarer.

[[The Ting Tings]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, English punk bands, Indie rock bands, New wave bands

The Ting Tings are an English duo Pop-Retro rock indie band formed in England in 2004. They are famous for the studio album We Started Nothing and famous for the hit pop singles Shut Up and Let Me Go, Great DJ, That's Not My Name, and Be The One. The pop band is only a 2 member band with Katie White and Jules De Martino. The band members met whilst at Leeds University.

[[We Started Nothing]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums

We Started Nothing is an album recorded by Pop duo The Ting Tings. Singles include "Shut Up and Let Me Go", and "Be The One". The studio album was released May 2008. The album was also released as a limited edition LP on red vinyl limited to 2,000 copies. 

[[Shut Up and Let Me Go]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs

Shut Up and Let Me Go (aka: Shut Up & Let Me Go) is the third single off the studio album We Started Nothing by The Ting Tings. The song was released in the United Kingdom on July 21st of 2008, and was the follow-up to the number one hit single "That's Not My Name". The song was added to the coveted A-list of BBC Radio 1's playlist, and has received a substantial amount of airplay during the day on the station. The single peaked at number six in both the UK Singles Chart and the UK Download Chart.

[[1987 Sino-Indian skirmish]]

CATEGORIES: 1987, 1980s in India, History of the People's Republic of China

The 1987 Sino-Indian skirmish occurred at Sumdorong Chu Valley. This was the second conflict between the PRC and India, with the previous one taking place exactly a quarter of a century earlier.

[[Longbridge Plant]]

CATEGORIES: Automobiles

Longbridge Plant is an automobile plant in Longbridge, Birmingham, West Midlands, England. Most of it was demolished in 2005 and 2007.

[[Curzon Street railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Railway stations in England, 1838 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1830s establishments in England

Curzon Street railway station is a former railroad station in Birmingham, United Kingdom. It opened in 1838 and became a goods yard in 1854. 

[[Holography]]

CATEGORIES: Light

Holography is a way of making three-dimensional (3-D) picture made with a laser. It allows the holographer to make a more exact image than with photography. The holograph seems to move and change slightly to look as if it were three-dimensional.  Holography uses the wave aspect of light. 

[[Dirty paper coding]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications, Encodings

In telecommunications, dirty paper coding (DPC) is a good way to send digital data  through a channel that is subject to some interference that is known to the sender. The sender does precoding of the data so as to cancel the effect of the interference.

Costa asked the following question:

When Costa asked his question, the Shannon–Hartley theorem (and the more general noisy-channel coding theorem) was well known.

The Shannon–Hartley theorem tells us that, all else being equal, a paper sent along a path that picks up less dirt can reliably deliver more information than another paper sent along a path that picks up more dirt.

People have also thought up many ways of dealing with such dirt added after the message is written—see error detection and correction for details.

Most people expected that the same thing would happen when dirt is added to the paper before the message was written—the more dirt, the less information can be reliably sent.

In 1983, Costa showed the surprising result that we can send just as much information on such a dirty piece of paper as we can when writing on a clean sheet of paper, and gave a way to get that capacity.

A dirty paper code is a way for the writer to adapt his message to the dirt already on the paper.

The writer and the reader agree ahead of time on which dirty paper code they will use for the messages.

[[Klamath River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of California, Rivers of Oregon, Humboldt County, California, Del Norte County, California

The Klamath River flows through Oregon and northern California in the United States. It is 263 long. The river empties into the Pacific Ocean.

The Klamath is the second largest river in California after the Sacramento River.

[[Bandai]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Japan, 1950 establishments in Japan

Bandai Co., Ltd. is a Japanese company that makes toys and video games. It is the third largest toy maker in the world.

[[Battle, East Sussex]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in East Sussex

Battle is a town in East Sussex, England, UK. It is known as this because it was the place where the Battle of Hastings was fought.

[[John Key]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Jewish politicians, Oceanic Jews, People from Auckland, Politicians from North Island, Prime Ministers of New Zealand, Leaders of the Opposition (New Zealand)

John Phillip Key (born 9 August 1961) was the 38th Prime Minister of New Zealand and was the leader of the New Zealand National Party.

John Key entered the New Zealand Parliament in 2002 representing the north-west Auckland area of Helensville as a National MP, a seat that he still holds. In 2006 he succeeded Don Brash as the National Party leader in 2006. Key led his party to victory in the November 2008 general election.

On 5 December 2016, Key resigned as prime minister and as party leader. Bill English soon replaced Key as prime minister and party leader.

[[List of people from Dunedin]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of people, People from Dunedin

The New Zealand city of Dunedin is noted for producing a large number of famous people. Many of these are natives of the city; others travelled to Dunedin to be educated at the University of Otago.

[[Peter Warlock]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1930 deaths, English composers, 20th century composers

Peter Warlock (born London, 30 October 1894; died London, 17 December 1930),  was an English composer. “Peter Warlock” was not his real name. His real name was Philip Heseltine. He was also a music critic. When he wrote about music he used his real name, but when he composed music he used the pseudonym (borrowed name) "Peter Warlock", which is the name by which he is usually remembered today.

[[Land mine]]

CATEGORIES: Explosives

A land mine (called a "mine" when a naval mine is clearly not what is meant) is an explosive weapon that is put on the ground or just underneath the ground so that it explodes when a person or vehicle goes by. They are called "mines" because people who put them there often dig a tunnel under the ground (like miners who dig for coal etc.). Many people can be killed by mines, including civilians. Sometimes mines can lie in the ground and kill and injure people years after a war has ended. 

There are different types of land mines. Big anti-vehicle mines are against vehicles. Smaller infantry mines are used against foot soldiers. 

[[Charles Wood]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1926 deaths, 20th century composers, Romantic composers, Irish composers

Charles Wood (born Armagh, 15 June 1866; died Cambridge, 12 July 1926) was an Irish composer and teacher.

Charles Wood was born in Armagh, Ireland.  His father sang in the Cathedral choir.  Charles had music lessons from the cathedral organist, then he went to the Royal College of Music where he studied composition with C.V.Stanford and Hubert Parry.  He also learned to play the horn and piano.  After four years he went to Selwyn College, Cambridge, at first to study, then to teach harmony and counterpoint.  In 1889 he got a teaching job at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.  Soon he became their first Director of Music and Organist. When Stanford died, Wood became Professor of Music at Cambridge.

Wood is mainly remembered today for his Anglican church music.  He wrote music for the Communion Service and service settings of the Magnificat and Nunc dimittis.   These are often sung today in cathedrals and churches. He wrote many fine anthems including O thou, the central orb.  In Cambridge he is remembered for the chimes he wrote for the clocks of Gonville and Caius College.

His pupils included Ralph Vaughan Williams at Cambridge and Herbert Howells at the Royal College of Music.

[[Arthur Bliss]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century composers, English composers, 1891 births, 1975 deaths, Companions of Honour, Royal Victorian Order

Sir Arthur Bliss CH KCVO (London, 2 August 1891; died London, 27 March 1975) was a British composer (a person who writes music).  When he started composing, his music sounded very modern and harsh. As he got older he changed his style and wrote more Romantic music in the style of English composer Edward Elgar.  For more than twenty years he was Master of the Queen's Music.

[[Plumbing]]

CATEGORIES: Water infrastructure, Waste, Engineering

Plumbing (which comes from the Latin word plumbum, which means lead, as pipes were once made from lead) is the job of working with pipes, tubing and plumbing fixtures for drinking water systems and getting rid of waste. A plumber is someone who fixes or puts in piping systems, plumbing fixtures and equipment such as water heaters. Many plumbers are construction workers. The plumbing industry is an important part of every developed economy because people need clean water and safe ways to move and store waste.

Plumbing also refers to a system of pipes and fixtures put in a building to move water and the get rid of waste that is in water. Plumbing is different from water and sewage systems because plumbing system serves one building, while water and sewage systems serve a group of buildings or a city.

[[Copepod]]

CATEGORIES: Crustaceans

Copepods (meaning "oar feet") are small, shrimp-like crustaceans that swim in seas, lakes, and ponds. Copepods are very important in the food web, and many animals eat them.

There are 10 orders of copepods and over 4500 species; a few orders are free-swimming, but many are parasites (of fish). The free-swimming copepods move through the water in jerky motions by moving their swimming legs. 

[[Donegal]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ireland, Gaeltacht, County Donegal

Donegal is a town in County Donegal, Republic of Ireland. 

There are many sandy beaches in the area round Donegal and the town is used as a base for hill-walking in the nearby Bluestack Mountains. Traditionally the largest employer in the town has been Magee of Donegal, makers of tweed garments.

[[Dingle]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ireland, County Kerry

Dingle is a town in County Kerry, Republic of Ireland. It has a large natural harbour.

geo

[[Young, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales, 1826 establishments, 1820s establishments in Australia

Young is a town in New South Wales, Australia. It is the centre of Young Shire. It is on the Olympic Highway. It is about 2 hours drive from Canberra. Young is in a valley surrounded by hills. In 2001 there were 6,821 people living in Young. 

Young is known as the Cherry Capital Of Australia and every year hosts the National Cherry Festival.

[[Ammunition]]

CATEGORIES: Ammunition, Explosives

Ammunition, often called ammo, comes from the French word la munition. At first it meant all items used for war. This was from the Latin word munire (to provide). It now is used only for bullets and other projectiles that are thrown at the enemy by guns, and the gunpowder or other propellant that throws the projectiles. The group word for all types of ammunition is munitions. This means any explosive thing that can be used in combat and includes bombs, missiles, warheads, and mines (landmines, naval mines, and claymore mines). These are made in munitions factories. 

Ammunition is mainly used to attack a target. Ammunition can include flares and incendiary devices that start fires.  Since the invention of the cartridge, ammunition has come to mean the putting of a projectile - the item that is sent to hit the target, and its propellant - the chemical that creates the force, into a single package. 

Ammunition is a complex subject.  It includes many different weapons used by people, such as explosives and propellants, cartridges, high explosive projectiles (HE), warheads, special shells to attack armour and aircraft, carrier projectiles, fuses, mortar ammunition, small arms (revolver and pistol) ammunition, grenades, mines, flares, improved conventional munitions, and computer guided munition.

[[Emirate]]

CATEGORIES: Feudalism, Forms of government

An emirate is a political territory that is ruled by an emir, a dynastic Arab Monarch. The word emirate or amirate comes from إمارة, Imaarah ; plural: إمارات, Imaraat.  The United Arab Emirates is a federal state of seven federal emirates, each administered by a hereditary emir, these seven elect the federation's President and Prime Minister. Most emirates have either disappeared or become part of a larger modern state, some changed their rulers' title, e.g. to Malik (Arabic for King) or Sultan. Therefore true emirate-states have become rare. 

In Arabic the term can be generalized to mean any province of a country that is administered by a member of the ruling class, especially of a member of the royal family, as in Saudi Arabian governorates.

[[Mike Busniuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Canadian ice hockey forwards, Ice hockey people from Ontario, People from Thunder Bay, Philadelphia Flyers players, Living people, American Hockey League players

Mike Busniuk (born December 13, 1951 in Thunder Bay, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He is the younger brother of Ron Busniuk, who played for the Buffalo Sabres.

[[Glasgow Subway]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United Kingdom, Glasgow

The Glasgow Subway is a subway system serving Glasgow, Scotland, UK.

[[Tyne and Wear Metro]]

CATEGORIES: Light rail in the United Kingdom, Transport in England, Electric railways in the United Kingdom, Sunderland, Tyne and Wear, Newcastle, Tyne and Wear, Rapid transit in the United Kingdom

Tyne and Wear Metro is a rapid transit in Newcastle upon Tyne, Gateshead, South Tyneside, North Tyneside and Sunderland in United Kingdom.

[[Sydney White]]

CATEGORIES: English television actors, English singers, 1991 births, Living people

Sydney Rae White (born 30 November 1991) is an English actress and singer.

[[Judicial nullification]]

CATEGORIES: United States law

Judicial nullification is a right of a judge to nullify (make invalid) a law if they feel it is too harsh in a certain situation where it is being applied. During the Constitutional Convention many, including George Mason, Elbridge Gerry and James Wilson felt the courts could decide if a law was unconstitutional, and if so, refuse to enforce it. Other founding fathers including John Francis Mercer, Gouverneur Morris and John Dickinson argued against allowing judges to have that power. The issue was left unanswered. However, when deciding that a new law needed the approval of the president, all attempts to have the judiciary approve new laws were soundly defeated. Judicial Nullification is sometimes used to mean jury nullification. More often it means nullifying a law, legal code or statute by a member of the judiciary.

In 1832 South Carolina said a new tariff law was unconstitutional, thus not really a law. Vice President John C. Calhoun agreed, but President Andrew Jackson disagreed. Jackson threatened to send troops. The two sides negotiated. Congress changed the tariff, and South Carolina decided the new law was not against the Constitution.

In 2011 the Supreme Court made a ruling that, in essence, says lower court judges can ignore the law. There were three petitions before the Court asking if federal courts need to be stopped from ignoring laws, rules and facts. The Supreme Court refused to grant certiorari (a writ seeking judicial review of a matter). In other words, the Court refused to consider the three petitions.

[[Emir]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of state

Emir (أمير; female: أميرة; emira; (Persian and Urdu: امیر) "commander" or "general", also "prince"; also transliterated as amir, aamir or ameer) is a high title of nobility or office. It is used throughout the Arab world and historically in some Turkic states and Afghanistan. Emirs are usually considered high-ranking sheiks, but in monarchical states the term is also used for princes; then "emirate" means more or less the same as principality in this context.

Emir is used also as a name in Turkey like Emir Niego and Emir Sevinc.  

Emir is the most common spelling in English and many other languages (for example, United Arab Emirates). The spelling amir, that is closer to the original Arabic, is more common for its compounds (e.g., admiral) and in individual names. 

[[Launceston, Tasmania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Tasmania, 1806 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Australia

Launceston is a city in Australia. It is the second biggest city in the state of Tasmania. It has about 100,000 people. It is at the place where the North Esk, South Esk and Tamar Rivers meet. It was founded in 1806.

[[Governess]]

CATEGORIES: Educators

A governess is a female person who works for a family, teaching the children in their home. She is not like a nanny who looks after them all day, dressing them etc. The governess's job is to be their teacher. She saw to their discipline and early education. Often girls received all their education from their governess (or sometimes a tutor), though boys usually went away to boarding school before their teen years, and then some went on to college.

Very few children nowadays have a governess, but it was quite common in the families of rich people until around the beginning of the 20th century. In England quite a lot of young children who lived in the country, a long way from good schools, had a governess. When the boys were old enough they were sent away to a boarding school.

Governesses taught basic skills such as Reading, Writing and Arithmetic. They may also have taught other skills such as French, piano playing and drawing or painting. Sometimes other teachers might be 

A governess was not a household worker, but she was not treated like a member of the family either. This meant that they were often quite lonely, and they usually ate their meals alone. For girls from a middle class background who were not married it was one of the only ways of earning a living. When the children she taught (her "charges") grew up, she would have to find a new job.

Novels of the time were usually about rich families, and a governess often comes into the story, e.g. in Charlotte Brontë's Jane Eyre or Anne Brontë's Agnes Grey. Maria, the main character in The Sound of Music, leaves the convent and becomes a governess to the children of the von Trapp family.

[[Confederation of the Rhine]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in Germany, Former federations, Former German countries, 1806 establishments in Europe, 1813 disestablishments, 1810s disestablishments in Europe, 1800s establishments in Germany, 19th century disestablishments in Germany

The Confederation of the Rhine was a client state of First French Empire. It existed from 1806 through 1813. Its ruler was a Protector, who was Napoleon I of France. It included most of the German states but not the two biggest, Prussia and Austria. The Confederation of the Rhine was one of the successors of Holy Roman Empire and one of the predecessors of German Confederation.

[[Constant Lambert]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century composers, English composers, British conductors, 1905 births, 1951 deaths

Constant Lambert (born London, 23 August 1905; died London, 21 August 1951) was a British composer and conductor.

Lambert’s father was the painter George Washington Lambert who had come to England from  Australia.  Lambert was often ill when he was a child.   He went to school at Christ's Hospital and won a scholarship to the  Royal College of Music.  He soon became interested in French and Russian music.  He became friends with other famous people including the Sitwell family, William Walton, Philip Heseltine and Bernard van Dieren.  He and Edith Sitwell were the reciters at a performance of Walton’s Façade.

Lambert was a prodigy: he was composing music for orchestra when he was only 13, and when he was 20 he was asked to write a ballet for Serge Diaghilev's world-famous Ballets Russes (Romeo and Juliet). 

He soon became very famous.  His best known work is The Rio Grande for piano solo, chorus and orchestra.  It has a mixture of musical styles: jazz, habaneras and the influence of  Delius and Duke Ellington.

During the 1930s he performed a lot as a conductor with the Vic-Wells Ballet (later the Royal Ballet), but he stopped composing music. Lambert thought he had failed as a composer, and only finished two more big works in the last  sixteen years of his life. He continued conducting, and appeared at Covent Garden and in BBC broadcasts, and travelled to Europe and America conducting ballets.  He was an excellent ballet conductor and helped the dancers to give their best performance.

During the war he became ill.  He refused to see a doctor.  He was working very hard and also drinking a lot.

Lambert liked jazz and thought it was an important influence on popular culture of the time.  He wrote a book about this, called Music Ho! (1934).  The book is widely read today, although it shows a very personal approach to music.

Lambert was married twice.  His first marriage was to Florence Kaye.  He later married Isabel Nichols, an artist, in 1947.  After Constant Lambert's death, Isabel married the composer Alan Rawsthorne. 

Lambert died on 21 August 1951.  He had pneumonia and it was also found that he had diabetes made worse by alcoholism. 

[[Kensington, Calgary]]

CATEGORIES: Calgary, Neighborhoods

Kensington is a neighborhood in Calgary, Alberta.  It is around the intersection of Kensington Road and 10th St. NW.

The neighborhood hosts Christmas in Kensington Village in December, the Sun and Salsa Festival in July, as well as the Bizarre Bikes & Bazaar in May.

Kensington is home to the Calgary Kookaburras Australian rules football club.

[[Samuel Coleridge-Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1912 deaths, 20th century composers, English composers, Romantic composers

Samuel Coleridge-Taylor (born London, 15 August 1875; died Croydon,  1 September 1912) was an English composer.

Coleridge-Taylor was born in Holborn, London.  His black father was a doctor from Sierra Leone,  his mother was English. His parents were not married. The father went back to Africa by February 1875. He had the job of coroner for the British Empire in the Gambia in the late 1890s.  He did not know anything about his son’s existence.

Coleridge-Taylor was brought up in Croydon .  He studied the violin at the Royal College of Music and composition with Charles Villiers Stanford.  In 1899 he married Jessie Walmisley who had been a student with him at the RCM.  Her parents did not want her to be married to someone of  mixed race.  The couple had a son, Hiawatha (1900-1980) and a daughter, Avril, born Gwendolyn (1903-1998).

Soon Coleridge-Taylor became known as a composer.  Edward Elgar helped him get one of his pieces performed at the Three Choirs Festival.  Two months later Stanford conducted the cantata Hiawatha’s Wedding Feast, the piece for which he is best remembered.  He toured the United States in 1904.  This made him even more interested in finding out about his racial heritage. He wanted to do for African music what Johannes Brahms had done for Hungarian music and Antonín Dvořák for Bohemian music. He had met the American poet Paul Laurence Dunbar in London and set some of his poems to music.  Several people encouraged him to learn more about his heritage.

Coleridge-Taylor was a shy man, but he was a very good conductor.  He was often asked to adjudicate at music festivals.

Coleridge-Taylor was 37 when he died of pneumonia. His widow hardly had any money, but  King George V gave her a pension of GB£100, which shows how popular Coleridge-Taylor had been as a composer.   A memorial concert was held later in 1912 at the Royal Albert Hall and gathered £300.

Coleridge-Taylor's works were often performed by Sir Malcolm Sargent who conducted ten seasons of a costumed ballet version of Hiawatha at the Royal Albert Hall between 1928 and 1939 with the Royal Choral Society (600 to 800 singers) and 200 dancers.

[[Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Brazil, Rio de Janeiro, 1941 establishments, 1940s establishments in Brazil

The Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro is a Catholic university based in the neighborhood Gavea in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It was founded in 1941 by D. Sebastião Leme and the Rev. Leonel Franca, and was officially recognized in January 15, 1946.

The PUC-Rio was one of the first universities that taught Entrepreneurship in the graduation courses in Brazil.

[[Quim Monzó]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Writers from Barcelona

Quim Monzó (born in Barcelona, Spain, in 1952) is a Catalan writer of novels, short stories and discursive prose, mostly in the Catalan language.

In the early 1970s, Monzó reported from Vietnam, Cambodia, Northern Ireland and East Africa for newspapers in Barcelona. His fiction is full of irony. His other prose maintains this humor. One collection of his essays, Catorze ciutats comptant-hi Brooklyn, is notable for its account of New York in the days immediately following September 11.

[[Northern Light Infantry]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Pakistan

The Northern Light Infantry (NLI) is a Light Infantry Regiment of the Pakistan Army. Headquartered in Gilgit, the capital of Northern Areas, Pakistan, it is the main force protecting the strategically important northern areas of Pakistan.

[[Pakistan National Command Authority]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan

The National Command Authority (NCA) of Pakistan is the Pakistani organisation responsible for policy formulation. It has control over employment and development for all strategic nuclear forces and strategic organizations.

[[Setting (fiction)]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction

A setting is the time, location, and atmosphere (e.g. happy, sad, exciting, frightening, etc.) the novel is taking place in.

[[National symbols of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: National symbols of Pakistan, Pakistani culture

The National symbols of Pakistan (Urdu:پاکستان کی قومی علامتیں); Each Country of the world adopts some signs or emblems, which they regard as the representative of their country traits. Pakistan has several “Official National Symbols”. Pakistanis have several official National symbols including a historic document, a flag, an emblem, an anthem, a memorial tower as well as several national heroes. The symbols were adopted at various stages in the existence of Pakistan and there are various rules and regulations governing their definition or use. 

[[Sei whale]]

CATEGORIES: Baleen whales

The sei whale (Balaenoptera borealis) is a dark-gray, stream-lined baleen whale that is found worldwide except in polar waters. It swims in small pods of 3-5 whales but larger groups may form at rich feeding grounds. It has very fine grey-black baleen that traps very small particles of food. It is a rorqual whale (a large baleen whale) that is similar to the Bryde's whales.

[[Vithoba]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu gods and goddesses

Vithoba is a Hindu god worshipped mainly in the Indian states of Maharashtra and Karnataka. He is also known as Vitthala and Panduranga. He is generally considered a form of the Hindu god Vishnu or Krishna. In stone images and pictures, he is shown as a dark young boy. He stands on a brick with his hands on his waist. His wife Rukmini or Rakhumai stands with him.

Vithoba's main temple is at Pandharpur in Maharashtra. It is close to its border with Karnataka. Two Hindu sects, the Varkari sect of Maharashtra and Haridasa sect of Karnataka worship Vithoba as their main god. The Varkari poet-saints have written devotional poems called abhangas in praise of god Vithoba. The abhangas are written in the language Marathi. The Haridasa poets have also written poems, devoted to Vithoba in the Kannada language. The two most important festivals associated with Vithoba are Shayani Ekadashi in the Hindu month of Ashadha, and Prabodini Ekadashi in the Hindu month of Kartik.

[[Breadalbane, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Breadalbane (34) is a small village on the Lachlan River in New South Wales, Australia. It is near Goulburn in the Upper Lachlan Shire. This little town is also on the Hume Highway which links Sydney and Melbourne. The highway used to go through the small town but it was bypassed in the early 1990s. Breadalbane is also situated on the Sydney-Melbourne railway line.

Breadalbane is also near the start of the Federal Highway. This branches off the Hume Highway just south of Goulburn and goes to Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory. Canberra is the capital city of Australia where the Federal Parliament sits.

[[Hydrofoil]]

CATEGORIES: Boats

A hydrofoil is a type of boat that can lift its hull out of the water with a pair of special wings underwater. These wings are like the wings of an airplane.

[[Gundaroo, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Gundaroo is a small village in New South Wales, Australia. It is in the Yass Valley Shire.  It is built near the Yass River. Gundaroo is about 16 kms north of Sutton and about 15 km west of the Lake George range.  About 300 people live there.

[[Jack Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1968 deaths, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Canadian ice hockey centres, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Ottawa Senators (original) players, People from Thunder Bay, Toronto Arenas players, Toronto St. Pats players

John James "Jack" Adams (June 14, 1895 – May 1, 1968) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player, coach and general manager in the National Hockey League and Pacific Coast Hockey Association. He was a Hall of Fame player during a 10 year professional career with Toronto, Vancouver and Ottawa. He is best known for his 36-year association with the Detroit Red Wings of the NHL as coach or general manager. He later became president of the Central Hockey League.

[[Almas Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in the United Arab Emirates, Buildings and structures in Dubai, 2009 establishments in Asia, Establishments in the United Arab Emirates

Almas Tower is a skyscraper in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.  It is 363 meters (1,191 feet) tall and has 68 floors.  It was built in 2009 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

[[Emirates Office Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in the United Arab Emirates, Buildings and structures in Dubai, 2000 establishments in Asia, Establishments in the United Arab Emirates

Emirates Office Tower is a skyscraper in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.  It is 355 meters (1,163 feet) tall and has 54 floors.  It was built in 2000 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

Emirates Office Tower is next to the Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel, which is also one of the tallest buildings in the world at 309m (1,014ft).

[[Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in the United Arab Emirates, Hotels in the United Arab Emirates, Buildings and structures in Dubai, 2000 establishments in Asia, Establishments in the United Arab Emirates

Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel is a skyscraper in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.  It is 309 meters (1,014 feet) tall and has 56 floors.  It was built in 2000 and is one of the tallest buildings in the world

Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel is next to the Emirates Office Tower, which is also one of the tallest buildings in the world at 355m (1,163ft).

[[Jeremy Adduono]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Ontario Hockey League players, People from Thunder Bay, United States Hockey League players

Jeremy Adduono (born August 4, 1978, in Thunder Bay, Ontario, Canada) is a Canadian professional ice hockey winger. He was drafted in the seventh round, 184th overall, by the Buffalo Sabres in the 1997 NHL Entry Draft.

[[Old College, University of Edinburgh]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Scotland, Edinburgh

Old College is a building in Edinburgh, United Kingdom. It is part of University of Edinburgh.

[[Garage Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 albums, Heavy metal albums, Metallica albums

Garage Inc. is a cover album by American heavy metal band Metallica, released in 1998.

It includes recorded cover versions of other artists' songs, all of their b-side covers released up to that point, and the entire The $5.98 E.P.: Garage Days Re-Revisited, which had gone out of print since its original release in 1987. The title is a combination of Garage Days Re-Revisited and their song Damage, Inc.  Over 5 million copies have been sold in the US as certified by the RIAA.

[[Christmas 1994 nor'easter]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 in New York (state), 1990s in Florida, Christmas, Disasters in the 1990s, Natural disasters in the United States

The Christmas 1994 nor'easter was a strong cyclone along the East Coast of the United States and Atlantic Canada. It developed from an area of low pressure in the southeast Gulf of Mexico near the Florida Keys, and moved across the state of Florida.

[[River Wear]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England, North East England

The Wear is a river in northeast England. It starts in Wearhead, County Durham and opens up into the North Sea at Sunderland.

[[River Tees]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The Tees is a river in England. It starts in Cross Fell (a mountain) in the Pennines, and opens up into the North Sea. It forms a border between North Yorkshire and County Durham and also between the towns of Hartlepool and Redcar. It is also 85 miles or 137 kilometres long. High force waterfalls is 7 feet high. The Pennines Way was opened in 1965.

[[Rutland Boughton]]

CATEGORIES: English composers, Romantic composers, 1878 births, 1960 deaths

 Rutland Boughton  (born Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire 23 January 1878; died London, 25 January, 1960) was an English composer.  He was well known in the early 20th century as a composer of opera and choral music. 

Boughton studied with Charles Villiers Stanford and Walford Davies.  He wrote many different kinds of music including symphonies, concertos, part-songs, songs, chamber music and opera.  His best known work was the opera The Immortal Hour. His carol Bethlehem (1915) became very popular in England and in many other countries.

He was a great admirer of the composer Richard Wagner who had built his own theatre, the Bayreuth Festspielhaus, in the German town of Bayreuth.  Boughton wanted to create an "English Bayreuth" at Glastonbury, so he started the series of Glastonbury Festivals that took place from 1914 until 1926. From 1927 until his death in 1960, he lived at Kilcot near Newent, Gloucestershire.  

[[Bayreuth Festspielhaus]]

CATEGORIES: Bayreuth, Buildings and structures in Bavaria, Opera houses in Germany

The Bayreuth Festspielhaus (Bayreuth Festival Theatre) is an opera house in the town of Bayreuth, Germany. The German opera composer Richard Wagner got the opera house built so that his own music could be performed properly. He had lots of ideas about how opera should be performed, and he thought that there was no opera house in Germany that was good enough for performances of his operas. Today it is still the place where every year there is a festival, the Bayreuth Festival, which is dedicated only to the operas of Richard Wagner.

King Ludwig II of Bavaria was a great admirer of Richard Wagner and he gave a lot of money for the opera house to be built. Wagner watched the construction all the time and made sure that everything was built in the way he wanted. Work on the building started on 22 May 1872 (Wagner's birthday), and it was ready four years later when, for the first time, all four operas which make up the cycle called Der Ring des Nibelungen (The Ring of the Nibelung), were performed.

The opera house is big enough for an audience of 1,925. One unusual thing is the orchestra pit, which is right under the stage, covered by a hood, so that the orchestra cannot be seen at all by the audience. Wagner wanted the audience to be able to concentrate properly on the action on the stage instead of being distracted by watching the orchestra. It makes it very difficult for the orchestra and the singers to be together, and conductors have to get used to the problem.

The Festspielhaus also has a double proscenium, which makes it look as if the stage is farther away than it actually is.

[[Kilmacolm]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Inverclyde

Kilmalcolm is a town in Inverclyde, Scotland, UK.  The village has a population of around 4,000 people.

[[Port Glasgow]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Inverclyde

Port Glasgow is a town in Inverclyde, Scotland, UK.

Newark Castle stands very close to the shore of the Clyde. The castle dates to around 1484. It is now a visitor attraction maintained by Historic Scotland. Several acres of the Clyde foreshore at Parklea are owned by the National Trust for Scotland. Coronation Park is in the town centre. The park was opened on the site of the West Harbour in 1937 to celebrate the coronation of King George VI.

[[Largs]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Ayrshire

Largs is a town in North Ayrshire, Scotland, UK. It is about 33 from Glasgow. The original name means "the slopes" (An Leargaidh) in Scottish Gaelic. 

[[Dunoon]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Argyll and Bute

Dunoon is a town in Argyll and Bute, Scotland, UK.

[[Falkland, Fife]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fife

Falkland is a town in Fife, Scotland, UK.

Falkland Palace is in the town. James IV started building it in 1500. It is the best example of French-influenced Renaissance architecture in the United Kingdom. Mary, Queen of Scots came to visit often.

A fire happened when Oliver Cromwell's troops stayed in the palace. The fire in 1654 destroyed the East Range. The Court never came back to Falkland Palace after 1665.  In the late 19th century rebuilding and restoration work began.  Today the palace and gardens are open to the public through the National Trust for Scotland.

[[Saving Abel]]

CATEGORIES: American hard rock bands, American rock bands, Post-grunge bands, southern rock bands, Musical groups from Mississippi

[[Carl Reinecke]]

CATEGORIES: 1824 births, 1910 deaths, German composers, German conductors, Romantic composers

Carl Reinecke (born Altona, Hamburg 23 June 1824; died Leipzig, 10 March 1910) was a Danish-born composer, conductor, and pianist.

Reinecke was born near Hamburg, which was part of Denmark at the time. Carl learned music from his father. He was soon playing the piano in public and was composing by the age of twelve.

When he was 19 he travelled about giving concerts. He went as far east as Riga. In 1846 he became Court Pianist for King Christian VIII in Copenhagen. He stayed there until 1848, composing four piano concertos as well as concertos for violin, cello, harp and flute. He continued to travel, including to Leipzig where he met Schumann, Mendelssohn and Liszt. 

In 1851 he became a professor at the Cologne Conservatory. Later he had conducting jobs in Barmen and Breslau.

In 1860, Reinecke was made director of the famous Gewandhaus Orchestra concerts in Leipzig, and professor of composition and piano at the Conservatorium. He became director of the Conservatorium and made it one of the best in Europe. He conducted the Gewandhaus Orchestra for 35 years and raised the standard of their playing. He conducted many first performances, including the first complete performance of Brahms's German Requiem (1869).

Perhaps his best-known piece is the flute sonata "Undine". He taught many famous musicians, including Edvard Grieg, Christian Sinding, Leoš Janáček, Isaac Albéniz, Johan Svendsen, Felix Weingartner and Max Bruch. 

At the age of 80, Reinecke recorded his playing on piano roll, making him the earliest-born pianist to have his playing recorded in any way.

He retired in 1902, but continued to compose until the end of his life. 

[[Saving Abel (2008 album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums

On March 11, 2008, the rock band Saving Abel released their hit studio album called Saving Abel (the second self-titled album). A song in this particular album is featured on Saving Abel's previous studio album called 18 Days. There are two major singles on this album called "Addicted" and "18 Days". The album has 11 studio tracks on it, and 2 original B-Sides. The album was produced by producer Skidd Mills. The album's songs have some of the songs featured on it from the previous self-titled studio album like "18 Days", "Drowning (Face Down)", "Running Away from You", and "Beautiful You".

[[18 Days]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs

"18 Days" is the second single off the 2008 album by Saving Abel called Saving Abel. The song is also on the previous self-titled album by Saving Abel. The song was released in late 2008 when it took major airplay.

[[Dagenham]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Barking and Dagenham

Dagenham is an area of London, United Kingdom.  It has been a part of Greater London since 1965.  There are mostly places for people to live and few businesses.

[[Grays]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Essex

Grays is a town in Essex, England, UK.  It is sometimes called Grays Thurrock. 

The town is about 20 miles (32 km) to the east of London.  It is on the north bank of the River Thames, and near the M25 motorway.

[[Carcoar, New South Wales]]

Carcoar is a town in New South Wales, Australia. It is in the Blayney Shire. In 2006, 218 people lived in Carcoar. It next to the Mid-Western Highway, 258 west of Sydney and 52 south west of Bathurst. It is 720 above sea-level. Carcoar is in a small green valley, with the town on both sides of the Belubula River.

Carcoar was once one of the most important government centres in Western New South Wales. The town has been classified by the National Trust. This is because it has a lot of buildings from the 1800s. Carcoar is a Aboriginal word from the Gundungura people meaning either frog or kookaburra.

Nearby towns are Blayney, Millthorpe, Mandurama, Neville, Lyndhurst and Barry.

[[Gravesend]]

CATEGORIES: Gravesend

Gravesend is a town in Kent, England, UK. It is on the bank of the river Thames. One of the most famous landmarks in Gravesend is the Clock Tower, a scaled replica of Elizabeth Tower, the tower that houses Big Ben in the Palace of Westminster. 

Gemma Arterton was born and raised in Gravesend. Some people say Pocahontas is buried there, however there is no proof of this.

[[Bach Choir]]

CATEGORIES: Choirs

The Bach Choir is a world-famous amateur choir based in London. They sing the music of many composers, not just Johann Sebastian Bach.

[[Oban]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Argyll and Bute

Oban is a town in Argyll and Bute, Scotland, UK.

[[Argyll and Bute]]

CATEGORIES: Argyll and Bute

Argyll and Bute is a council area of Scotland, UK, is one of 32 unitary authority council areas in Scotland and a lieutenancy area. The administrative centre for the council area is in Lochgilphead.

Argyll and Bute covers the second-largest administrative area of any Scottish council. The council area adjoins those of Highland, Perth and Kinross, Stirling and West Dunbartonshire. Its border runs through Loch Lomond.

The present council area was created in 1996, when it was carved out of the Strathclyde region, which was a two-tier local government region of 19 districts, created in 1975. Argyll and Bute merged the existing Argyll and Bute district and one ward of the Dumbarton district. The Dumbarton ward, called 'Helensburgh and Lomond', included the burgh of Helensburgh and consisted of an area to the west of Loch Lomond, north of the Firth of Clyde and mostly east of Loch Long. 

[[Halesowen]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the West Midlands (county)

Halesowen is a town in West Midlands of England. Historically, it is part of Worcestershire. The population of the town in the 2001 census was 55,273.

The centre of Halesowen has a Norman church, St John's Church. It was built in 1083 on the site of an Anglo-Saxon church. It was founded by Earl Rodger de Montgomery. The building of the spire at St John's Church started at the end of the 1st century and is shows evidence of Norman origin even though there have been many alterations to it.

[[The King Of Fighters]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 video games, Arcade games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation Vita games, Video game series, Virtual Console games, Fighting games

The King of Fighters is a fighting game released by SNK for the Neo Geo arcade and home consoles. It is the first game of The King of Fighters series, done by the same company.

The game is a fictional crossover with many characters from SNK's previous fighting games, Fatal Fury and Art of Fighting. There are even modernized versions of their pre-Neo Geo games: Ikari Warriors and Psycho Soldier. There are also original characters in this series.

The game was  converted for Neo Geo AES and Neo Geo CD after the releases for Arcade. In 2004, to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the series, SNK released a remake titled The King of Fighters '94 Rebout, featuring the original game and a newer version with high definition graphics.

[[102 Dalmatians]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 comedy movies, Disney movies, English-language movies, Sequel movies, 101 Dalmatians, Movies about animals, American comedy movies, British comedy movies, French comedy movies

102 Dalmatians (known as 102 in Japan) is a 2000 live-action movie produced by The Walt Disney Company with Glenn Close acting as the protagonist, Cruella de Vil. It is a sequel to the 1996 movie 101 Dalmatians, which was a live-action remake of the 1961 Disney animated movie One Hundred and One Dalmatians. In the movie, Cruella de Vil attempts to steal puppies for her making a fur coat. Glenn Close and Tim McInnerny were the only actors from 101 Dalmatians to return for this sequel. The film was released on VHS and DVD on April 3, 2001, and re-released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on September 16, 2008.

[[Cruella de Vil]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in written fiction

Cruella De Vil (obviously a play on cruel and devil) is the villain in the Dodie Smith book The Hundred and One Dalmatians who kidnaps (dognaps) the puppies for their fur.  She is described as having one half of her hair white and the other half black, an extreme fondness for pepper and a preference for elevated temperatures.

In the 1961 Disney animated movie her voice was played by Betty Lou Gerson. The movie featured a song about her sung by Roger whose lyrics begin:

Later, in the 1996 live-action remake, and its 2000 sequel, 102 Dalmatians, she was played by Glenn Close. Shortly afterward, Cruella was a regular viallian in 101 Dalmatians: The Series, where she was voiced by April Winchell. This time, though, she wanted to steal the Dearly Farm, seeing how killing animals for fashion was deemed politically incorrect. However, she returned to hunting dogs in House of Mouse (which features an ongoing joke in which she inspects dogs from other Disney movies with a measuring ruler) and 101 Dalmatians II: Patch's London Adventure, both of which had Susanne Blakeslee as her voice.

[[101 Dalmatians (1996 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 comedy movies, 1990s adventure movies, American adventure movies, American comedy movies, Disney movie remakes, English-language movies, 101 Dalmatians, Movies about animals, Movies based on books, Movies composed by Michael Kamen

101 Dalmatians is a movie made by The Walt Disney Company in 1996. It is a remake of the 1961 animated movie One Hundred and One Dalmatians (which was based on Dodie Smith's 1956 novel The Hundred and One Dalmatians). The movie's main actor is Glenn Close as Cruella de Vil. Unlike in the earlier versions of the story, the dalmatians are played by real dalmatian actors, and none of the dalmatians talk. A sequel, 102 Dalmatians, was made in 2000 and was released in November. This movie is called simply 101 in Japan, like its sequel, which is called 102.

[[African wildcat]]

CATEGORIES: Felines

The African wildcats (Felis silvestris lybica) are small, fierce cats that live in forests, grasslands, and brush lands in Africa and the Middle East. They are the closest living relatives of the domestic cat.

It is a wildcat subspecies which occurs across northern Africa and extends around the edges of the Arabian Peninsula to the Caspian Sea. It is the most common and widely distributed wild cat, and is listed as Least Concern by IUCN since 2002.

The African wildcat appears to have diverged from the other subspecies about 131,000 years ago. Some individual African wildcats were first domesticated about 10,000 years ago in the Middle East, and are the ancestors of the domestic cat. Remains of domesticated cats were found in human burials in Cyprus, done by Neolithic farmers about 9,500 years ago. Hybrids between domestic cats and African wildcats are still common today.

[[Gale]]

CATEGORIES: Winds

A gale is a very strong wind. The Beaufort scale is a way to measure weather conditions. It is based on observations. The first level of the scale that uses the word gale is 7 beaufort (of a total of 13 steps). There are other definitions as well. The U.S. Government's National Weather Service defines a gale as 34 to 47 knots (63 km/h to 87 km/h or 39 miles per hour to 54 miles per hour) of sustained surface winds. Forecasters usually issue gale warnings when they think there will be winds of this strength.

Other sources use speeds as low as 28 and as high as 90. The 90 definition is rare. A common alternative definition of the maximum is 55.

[[Marin Marais]]

CATEGORIES: 1656 births, 1728 deaths, French composers, Baroque composers, French musicians

Marin Marais (31 May 1656, Paris – 15 August 1728, Paris) was a French composer and viol player. He is regarded as one of the great French musicians of the Baroque.

Marais, the son of a poor shoe maker, was educated in a choir school were he was taught to play the viol. He then learnt from Monsieur de Sainte-Colombe, a famous bass viol player. In six months he was said to be better than his teacher. In 1675, aged 19, he joined the orchestra of the Paris Opera. This was where he met Jean-Baptiste Lully, who was the director of the Opera. Lully taught him to compose music. Marais often conducted the operas Lully had written.

Marais was hired as a musician in 1676 to play at the royal court of Versailles. He did quite well as court musician. In 1679 he was appointed "ordinaire de la chambre du roy pour la viole", a title he kept until 1725.

He was a master of the basse de viol. He wrote a lot of music for that instrument, he was the most important French composer for it. He wrote five books of Pièces de viole (1686-1725). Most of the pieces in the book are suites with basso continuo. These were quite popular in the court, and for these he was remembered in later years as he who "founded and firmly established the empire of the viol" (Hubert Le Blanc, 1740). His other works include a book of Pièces en trio (1692) and four operas (1693-1709). Alcyone (1706) is well known for its storm scene. Marais became the conductor of the Paris Opera in 1706, but after the failure of his 1709 opera, Sémélé he gradually withdrew from public life. He married Catherine d'Amicourt, on 21 September 1676. They had 19 children together. Two of the children, Vincent Marais and Roland Marais also became famous musicians, as well as his grandson, Nicolas Marais.

Titon du Tillet wrote about Marais in his book Le Parnasse françois. He describes a piece from Marais' fourth book called The Labyrinth, which goes through lots of keys. The notes which are often dissonant, sometimes fast, sometimes slow, describe a man caught in a labyrinth. Eventually the man comes out of it happily and the music finishes with a gracious and natural chaconne. Another piece called La Gamme Scale, very gradually goes up the steps of the octave and then down again.

Facsimiles of all five books of Marais' Pièces de viole are published by Éditions J.M. Fuzeau. A complete critical edition of his instrumental works in seven volumes, edited by John Hsu, is published by Broude Brothers.

[[Camberley]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Surrey

Camberley is a town in Surrey, England, UK. It is close to the border with Hampshire.

[[Petersfield, Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hampshire

Petersfield is a town in Hampshire, England, UK. It is close to the border with West Sussex. Petersfield is a historic market town in the South Downs National Park. There is a market held in the town square every Wednesday and Saturday, with a monthly farmers market on a Sunday. The town was started at the end of the 11th century by the Normans. The Church of St.Peter was built in 1120.

[[Waterlooville]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hampshire

Waterlooville is a town in Hampshire, England, UK. It is not far from Portsmouth.

[[Havant]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hampshire

Havant is a town in Hampshire, England, UK. It is between the cities of Portsmouth and Chichester.havant is a very old town but it is still in perfect shape.

[[Steyning]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Sussex

Steyning is a town in West Sussex, England, UK. It is west of the smaller villages of Bramber and Upper Beeding. It is not far north from Lancing and Shoreham-by-Sea on the South Coast. Steyning has a high street with many shops, ranging from the Co-op to Sussex Produce. There is a primary school, secondary school and a sixth form. There is a bed and breakfast hotel called, Springwells.

[[Lancing, West Sussex]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Sussex

Lancing has a really big library   Lancing has a short station

West Sussex, England, UK. It is to the south-east of Sompting and to the south-west of Shoreham-by-Sea. There is a private

school called Lancing College here.

[[Bognor Regis]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Sussex

Bognor Regis is a  town in Arun, West Sussex, England, UK. In 2001 there were 22,555 people living in Bognor Regis.

It had a beach, where Butlins is situated.  

[[Burgess Hill]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Sussex

Burgess Hill is a town in West Sussex, England, UK. It is not far from the border with East Sussex. It is 38 miles (62 km) south of London, 10 miles (16 km) north of Brighton and Hove, and 29 miles (47 km) east-northeast of the county town of Chichester. It had a population of 28,803 at the time of the 2001 Census.  Other nearby towns include Haywards Heath to the north and Lewes, the county town of East Sussex, to the east.

Burgess Hill is mainly situated just on the West Sussex side of the border dividing the two counties. Parts of the town are across the county boundary in East Sussex.

[[Westhampnett]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Sussex

Westhampnett (sometimes known as Goodwood) is a village in West Sussex, England, UK. It is not far from Chichester. It is where Rolls-Royce Motor Cars is based. They also have a plant there.

[[Haywards Heath]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Sussex

Haywards Heath is a town in West Sussex, England, UK. It is not far from the border with East Sussex.

[[Lewes]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in East Sussex

Lewes (pronounced "Lewis") is a town in East Sussex, England, UK. A battle was fought there in 1264.

Lewes has lots of restaurants, cafés, pubs, hotels, jobs, and lots more. This attracts lots of people to visit the Town in East Sussex.

Lewes has the most historical features of all of Sussex. In 2001 it had the population of 15,988 and it is still growing.

It had its own battle called Battle Of Lewes in 1264, during the reign of Henry III.

[[Uckfield]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in East Sussex, Wealden

Uckfield is a town in Wealden, East Sussex, England, UK. It is on the River Uck. In 2001 there were 13,697 people living in Uckfield.

[[Bexhill-on-Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in East Sussex

Bexhill-on-Sea is a seaside town in East Sussex, England, UK. It is between Eastbourne and Hastings.

[[Royal Tunbridge Wells]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

Royal Tunbridge Wells is a town in Kent, England, UK. It is not far from the border with East Sussex. It should not be confused with Tonbridge, a smaller town to the north.

[[Folkestone]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom

Folkestone is a seaside town in Kent, England, United Kingdom. It has a Eurostar train terminal near it, in Ashford. But the channel tunnel is in Folkestone. It is has a pebble beach and sandy beach and there are cliffs.

[[Lundy]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of England

Lundy is an island off the coast of Devon, England, UK. It has a very small population.  In the 1930s the owner sold stamps and coins as if Lundy was an independent country. You can hire cottages on this island to stay in for a week or so. You can get to Lundy by helicopter or a ferry in the summer.

[[Westward Ho!]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon

Westward Ho! is a village on the north coast of Devon, England, UK. It is the only place in the British Isles to have an exclamation mark (!) in its name. The name comes from the novel of the same name by Charles Kingsley.

Another example of a place name with a exclamation mark in its name is Saint-Louis-du-Ha! Ha!, Quebec (Canada). But these are colloquial, unlike Westward Ho!'s.

[[Bude]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall

Bude is a coastal town in Cornwall, England, UK. It is at the mouth of the River Neet. Bude is surrounded by beautiful beaches such as Summerleaze Beach, Widemouth Bay, Crooklets Beach and Blackrock Beach. The River Neet runs through the town. Bude is a very popular location for tourists especially in the summer. The Bude Canal is a disused canal.

[[Padstow]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cornwall, Civil parishes in Cornwall

Padstow is a small town in Cornwall, England, UK. It is at the mouth of the River Camel. It is a fishing port and is well known for the 'Obby 'Oss (hobby horse) ceremony which is celebrated on May Day every year. A ferry connects Padstow with the village of Rock on the opposite side of the Camel estuary.

[[Pima County, Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Arizona counties

Pima County is one of the 15 counties in the US state of Arizona.

The county seat is Tucson which has the second most people in the state.

[[Aviemore]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Scotland, Highland

Aviemore (Aviemore.ogg; An Aghaidh Mhòr ˈan ˈɤːɪ ˈvɔːɾ "The big mountain face") is a town in Highlands of Scotland, UK. It is also a tourist area.

[[Swansea]]

CATEGORIES: Swansea

Swansea (Welsh: Abertawe), officially the City and County of Swansea (Welsh: Dinas a Sir Abertawe), is a city and county in Wales. It is Wales' second largest city and the largest in Cardiff. It is in the country's south coast. It has a temperate oceanic climate, with the most rain of any city in the United Kingdom. The city has a population of around 240,000. 

[[John Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1962 deaths, 20th century composers, English composers, English organists

John Ireland (born near Manchester, 13 August 1879; died Washington, Sussex, 12 June 1962) was an English composer. He is particularly remembered for his Piano Concerto and for his church music, especially the anthem Greater love hath no man, the song The Holy Boy and the hymn tune to My song is love unknown.  He had an unhappy childhood, and he always felt unsure of himself and rather lonely.

[[Bathgate]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Lothian

Bathgate is a town in West Lothian, Scotland, 5 miles (8 km) west of Livingston and adjacent to the M8 motorway. Nearby towns are Armadale, Blackburn, Linlithgow, Livingston, West Calder and Whitburn. Situated 2 miles (3 km) south of the ancient Neolithic burial site at Cairnpapple Hill, Bathgate and the surrounding area show signs of habitation since about 3500 BC.

[[Joint Typhoon Warning Center]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 establishments in the United States, United States Navy, United States Air Force, Hawaii, Tropical cyclones, 20th-century establishments in Hawaii

The Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) is a joint United States Navy – United States Air Force task force. It is at the Naval Maritime Forecast Center in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.

[[Dwarf elephant]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Elephants

Dwarf elephants are prehistoric elephants which lived in the Pleistocene period. They are an example of island dwarfism.

Fossil remains of dwarf elephants have been found on the Mediterranean islands of Cyprus, Malta, Crete, Sicily, Sardinia, the Cyclades Islands and Dodecanese islands. Other islands where dwarf elephants have been found are Sulawesi, Flores, Timor and other islands of the Lesser Sundas and the Channel Islands of California.

They are considered to be one of the only elephant of the Mediterranean islands belonging to the mammoth line.

[[Kwajalein]]

CATEGORIES: Marshall Islands, Atolls

Kwajaein (ˈ; Marshallese: Kuwajleen kw) is part of the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI). It is one of the world's largest coral atolls as measured by area of enclosed water.

[[Bo'ness]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Falkirk council area

Bo'ness (short for Borrowstouness) is a town in the Falkirk council area of Scotland, UK. Bo'ness is well known for its iron. Even if Bo'ness is the form of name it's known for and being used on road signs, its original name Borrowstounness. 

[[David Hart Smith]]

CATEGORIES: Hart family members, 1985 births, Living people, Canadian professional wrestlers, People from Calgary, Former WWE wrestlers

Harry Smith (born August 2, 1985) is a Canadian professional wrestler of English descent who currently works for New Japan Pro Wrestling under the name Davey Boy Smith, Jr..

He also worked for World Wrestling Entertainment. He wrestled on the ECW brand using the name David Hart Smith, as a member of The Hart Dynasty, alongside Tyson Kidd and Natalya.

He has wrestled on its Raw brand and in Florida Championship Wrestling under the name DH Smith ("D" for Davey Boy Smith, and "H" for the Hart family). On August 5, 2011, WWE released him from his wrestling contract. He currently holds the PWA World Heavyweight title.

His grandfather is Stu Hart who was a wrestling promoter. His father was Davey Boy Smith. His first public wrestling match was at age 10.  He started wrestling professionally on February 22, 2002 at age 16 and has been continuing since then.

[[Kilwinning]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Ayrshire

Kilwinning is a town in North Ayrshire, Scotland, UK. It is known as The Crossroads of Ayrshire.

[[Lasswade]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Scotland, Midlothian

Lasswade is a town in Midlothian, Scotland, UK. It is between Loanhead and Dalkeith. It merged (joined) with Bonnyrigg in 1929.

[[West Lothian]]

CATEGORIES: West Lothian

West Lothian is a council area in Scotland, United Kingdom. The county town is Livingston. Susan Boyle is from here.

The term "West Lothian question" was coined by Enoch Powell MP in 1977 after Tam Dalyell, the Labour MP for the Scottish constituency of West Lothian, raised the matter repeatedly in House of Commons debates on devolution.

[[Midlothian]]

CATEGORIES: Midlothian

Midlothian is the names of two areas in Scotland, UK:

The county of Midlothian includes the City of Edinburgh. Edinburgh is a council area on its own and so the council area of Midlothian is the area of the county with Edinburgh and some hills in the south cut off.

[[East Lothian]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas, Counties of Scotland

East Lothian is a council area in Scotland, UK.

The administrative centre is Haddington.  The largest town is Musselburgh.

[[Falkirk Council]]

CATEGORIES: Falkirk council area, 1996 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1990s establishments in Scotland

The Falkirk council area is one of 32 council areas of Scotland. It was formed on 1 April 1996.

[[Frank Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century composers, English composers, 1879 births, 1941 deaths, Violists

Frank Bridge (born Brighton, 26 February 1879; died Eastbourne,  10 January 1941) was an English composer, violist and conductor.  His music often sounded quite modern to the people of his day.  He wrote many excellent works including chamber music as well as orchestral music.  One of his composition pupils was Benjamin Britten.  Later Britten remembered his teacher by using one of Bridge’s tunes and making them into a piece of music called Variations on a Theme of Frank Bridge.

[[Auchtertool]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Fife

Auchtertool is a village in Fife, Scotland, UK. It is on the B925 Road between Dunfermline and Kirkcaldy.

[[Cowdenbeath]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Fife

Cowdenbeath is a town in Fife, Scotland, UK. It is well known for Mossmorran, an oil refinery. It is on the A92 Road. It is home to the local football team Cowdenbeath F.C.

[[Moray]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas, Counties of Scotland

Moray is a council area in Scotland, UK.

[[South Ayrshire]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas

South Ayrshire is one of 32 council areas of Scotland, UK. The largest town is Ayr.

[[Angus]]

CATEGORIES: Angus

Angus is a county on the North Sea and on the northern shore of the Firth of Tay in Scotland, United Kingdom.

Angus is also the name of a council area.

The county town of Angus is Forfar, but its largest town is Dundee. Dundee is not part of the council area but is a council area on its own.

[[Clackmannanshire]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas, Counties of Scotland, British shires

Clackmannanshire is a British county and a council area in Scotland. It lies north of the River Forth, between Perthshire to the north and Fife to the south.

Clackmannanshire is the smallest county in the United Kingdom. The second smallest, Kinross-shire, lies net to it.

Some villages/places in the county: Clackmannan, Alloa, Dollar, Tillicoultry, Tullibody

[[Selby]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Yorkshire

Selby is a town in North Yorkshire, England, UK. There was a great fire there in 1906. It is not far from the border with the East Riding of Yorkshire.

[[Goole]]

CATEGORIES: Port cities and towns of England, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Towns in the East Riding of Yorkshire

Goole is a town and inland port in the East Riding of Yorkshire of England, UK. It is near to the border with North Yorkshire.

[[Burnley]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Lancashire

Burnley is a town in Lancashire, England, UK. It is not far from the border with West Yorkshire.

[[Broadstairs]]

CATEGORIES: Thanet, Towns in Kent

Broadstairs is a town in Kent, England, UK. It is between the bigger towns of Margate and Ramsgate.

[[Street, Somerset]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset, Mendip

Street is a town in Somerset, England, UK. It is to the south of Glastonbury. The River Brue makes the boundary with Glastonbury.

[[Warminster]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wiltshire

Warminster is a town in Wiltshire, South West England. It is to the south of Westbury and to the east of Frome.

[[Wisbech]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cambridgeshire

Wisbech is a town in Cambridgeshire, England, United Kingdom. It is not far from the border with Norfolk. 

[[Pant, Shropshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Shropshire

Pant is a small village in Shropshire in England. It is in the civil parish of Llanymynech and Pant. It is located on the border with Powys in Wales. It is situated 15 miles north west of Shrewsbury, the county town.

In the 2011 census, the village's population was listed under the civil parish's population, which was 2,100 people.

The village's name means "hollow" in Welsh.

[[Southport]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Merseyside

Southport is a coastal town in Merseyside, England, UK. It is on the border with Lancashire.

[[Central]]

Central means the center of something.

It can also mean:

[[National Hockey League rivalries]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey related lists

There have been many rivalries between teams in the National Hockey League (NHL).  Rivalries have started up for many different reasons, the most common ones include: the teams being in the same area, knowing each other, violence during the game, and culture related reasons or national pride.

[[Puck]]

Puck may refer to:

[[Belves]]

CATEGORIES: Former communes in Dordogne

Belves is a former commune in the Dordogne Department in the south-west of France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Pays-de-Belves.

[[Arrondissement of Tournon-sur-Rhône]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of Ardèche

The arrondissement of Tournon-sur-Rhône is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Ardèche department. Its capital is the city of Tournon-sur-Rhône, a subprefecture of the department.

[[WWE Tribute to the Troops]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment television programs

The WWE Tribute to the Troops is a televised event held every year since 2005 by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) in December around Christmas and Hanukkah. The wrestlers and employees of the WWE travel to Iraq and Afghanistan to honor the United States military. The event features wrestlers from Raw, SmackDown, and Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) brands competing in matches against each other. They hold a televised episode of Raw on an open field for any troop member to attend for free. Along the travel, wrestlers and employees stop at autograph sessions and local hospitals to visit those who fight and may have been injured in war. Walter Reed Army Medical Center and Bethesda Naval Hospital are among the hospitals visited by the WWE employees. The WWE most recently held its fifth annual event, and has their next visit planned for December 2008.

In 2004, USO of Metropolitan Washington awarded the WWE the first Legacy of Hope award for their extensive support of their troops and the USO’s Operation Care Package program. In 2006, WWE received the Secretary of Defense Exceptional Public Service award. It was presented to WWE Chairman, Vince McMahon and other wrestlers. Upon receiving the award, McMahon handed it to wrestler, John "Bradshaw" Layfield (JBL), noting that the idea of the Tribute to the Troops was his original idea. WWE also received recognition from General Casey, the Commander of Multinational Forces Iraq. The WWE generally stays for three days.

Overall, WWE has traveled to Iraq and Afghanistan six consecutive times since 2003. The events are held in December every year, as they are intended to be a holiday treat for the troops. Not every WWE wrestler and employee attends the trips, but any wrestler willing to go may attend, with their brand not considered a factor.

[[Bruce Gamble]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 1984 deaths, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Ice hockey people from Ontario, People from Thunder Bay, Philadelphia Flyers players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Stanley Cup champions, American Hockey League players, Memorial Cup winners, Central Professional Hockey League players

Bruce George Gamble (May 24, 1938 – December 30, 1984) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played 10 season in the NHL between 1962 and 1972.

[[1937–38 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 in North America, 1938 in North America

The 1937–38 NHL season was the 21st season of the National Hockey League (NHL). Eight teams each played 48 games. The Chicago Black Hawks were the Stanley Cup winners as they beat the Toronto Maple Leafs three games to one in the final series.

[[Kenneth Freeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 deaths, People from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Kenneth "Poppi" Freeman (d. May 13, 1985) was a street vendor from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania who sold newspapers along with Billy Cook. He is known for being an important suspect in the Mumia Abu-Jamal case (the murder of Daniel Faulkner). Cynthia White, a key witness, said that Freeman was present, but did not name him. At the time of the crime, Freeman was a front passenger in Billy Cook's Volkswagen. In two different lineups done to determine the killer, Cynthia White picked him. Billy Cook, the brother of Abu-Jamal (Wesley Cook), claimed later that Freeman personally confessed to him as being armed and shooting Faulkner. Arnold Beverly, in an affidavit where he confessed to the murder, named "another guy" as a shooter. Some witnesses testified that they saw a man with a green army jacket going away from the crime scene. Billy Cook said that Kenneth Freeman was wearing a green army jacket.

Freeman was reportedly in Germany in the Army, and usually wore the jacket.

One important contradiction is the fact that Cynthia White picked Freeman out of a lineup as the killer, but later changed her testimony to fit the prosecution's story. This can be explained by her admission that police bribed her to do so, so that she could legally work as a prostitute. That leads to another important inconsistency, which is that Yvette Williams, someone who White knew personally, said that White told her that she did not see the actual killer, which means it was not possible for her to identify Freeman as the killer, unless he confessed to her personally. 

On May 13, 1985, Kenneth Freeman was found dead in an empty area, handcuffed, bound, and naked, his death listed as "natural causes". J. Patrick O'Connor, in his book The Framing of Mumia Abu-Jamal, says that "his body was found bound, gagged, and naked in a vacant lot". 

[[Falsifiability]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy of science

Falsifiability  is a concept from philosophy of science that says that it is possible to prove that a theory is wrong. There are different ways in which it can be done. The easiest way to do it is to find an example where the theory should apply, but somehow does not. As an example: Swans are birds related to ducks and geese. Today, several species of swans are known. For most people in Europe, a swan is a large white bird: The only species of swan that occurs in Europe is white. Several hundred years back, people in Europe therefore thought that all Swans were white.  In 1697, the Dutch explorer Willem de Vlamingh found black birds that looked like swans, during an expedition on the shores of Swan River, in Australia.  Later, it turned out these birds were indeed swans. With his discovery, de Vlamingh had falsified the theory that all Swans were white. 

There are some special cases, where a statement or theory cannot be falsified: 

Falsification is to actually prove that a theory  is wrong. This is done in the following way: There is a set of statements (which are logically sound, and do not contradict each other) called theory. If a single logical statement can be found, which is also logically sound, and which contradicts one of the statements in the theory, then the theory is proven wrong. This can be done with observation, as in the example with the Swans above. It can also be done using mathematical logic, using  induction.

Karl Popper had the opinion that only theories that are falsifiable are scientific. Falsifiability is then a line between science and other kinds of knowledge: if it can be refuted, it is science; it if cannot, then it is not science. Many working scientists think Popper was right.

Not everyone agreed with this: Pierre Duhem and Paul Feyerabend had different ideas. Feyerabend's Against method (1975) argued that there was no one scientific method. Instead, whatever works, works and anything goes. This is called epistemological anarchy. 

Duhem's idea was more subtle. He thought that for any given set of observations there is a huge and uncountable number of explanations. According to Duhem, an experiment in physics is not just an observation, but an interpretation of observations by means of a theoretical framework. Furthermore, no matter how well one constructs one's experiment, it is impossible to subject an isolated single hypothesis to an experimental test. Instead, it is a whole interlocking group of hypotheses, background assumptions, and theories that is tested. This thesis has come to be known as holism. According to Duhem, it makes crucial experiments impossible.

[[Kenosha, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, Kenosha County, Wisconsin, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois

Kenosha is a city in Kenosha County in the state of Wisconsin. It is part of the Chicago Metropolitan Area, but is nearer to Milwaukee than it is to Chicago. It is the fourth biggest city in the state after Milwaukee, Madison, and Green Bay.

[[Locality of reference]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Locality of reference is a phenomenon that can be seen in Computer science. It says that the same value, or the place where it is stored is accessed often. There are two different kinds of locality of reference:

[[Kenosha County, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Kenosha County, Wisconsin, 1850 establishments in Wisconsin

Kenosha County is a county in the U.S. State of Wisconsin. It is in the far southeast of the state, and faces east onto Lake Michigan. Its county seat is Kenosha. It was founded in 1850.  There is hand sanitizer in Kenosha County.

[[Tape drive]]

CATEGORIES: Storage devices

A tape drive or streamer is a component that is often attached to a computer. It is used to write data to magnetic tape or to read data from it. Usually people use it to do backups. Tape drives are different from hard drives in that the access to the data is sequential (in order). This means to read a certain part of data, all the data before it needs to be read as well. Also tape drives are slow, compared to hard drives. Current capacities range from tens of gigabytes to almost a terabyte, per cartridge.

[[Cache algorithm]]

A Cache algorithm is an algorithm used to manage a cache or group of data. When the cache is full, it decides which item should be deleted from the cache. The word hit rate describes how often a request can be served from the cache. The term latency describes for how long a cached item can be obtained. Cache alorithms are a trade-off between hit-rate and latency.

Other things to consider:

Various algorithms also exist to maintain cache coherency. This applies only to situation where multiple independent caches are used for the same data (for example multiple database servers updating the single shared data file).

[[Quincy, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Massachusetts, 1625 establishments, 1620s establishments in Massachusetts

Quincy is a city in Norfolk County in the U.S. State of Massachusetts. It is part of Metropolitan Boston. 

It is named after Colonel John Quincy, who was Abigail Adams' mother's father. Quincy also had Adams' son, John Quincy Adams, named after him. It is the birthplace of John Adams, the second U.S. President, and Adams' son, John Quincy Adams, the sixth U.S. President. It was settled in 1625 and officially founded in 1792.

[[Edward Rappaport]]

CATEGORIES: American meteorologists, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people

Edward N. "Ed" Rappaport, Ph.D. is the acting director of the National Hurricane Center.  He replaced former director Bill Proenza on July 9, 2007.

[[Live from Le Cabaret]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Pop albums

Live from Le Cabaret is a hit live studio album by Rock-Pop band Maroon 5. The album was exclusively released on iTunes on July 8, 2008. 

[[Thermodynamic entropy]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

Thermodynamic entropy is a measure of how organized or disorganized energy is present in a system of atoms or molecules. It is measured in joules of energy per unit kelvin. Entropy is an important part of the third law of thermodynamics.

Imagine that a group of molecules has ten units of energy. If the energy in those molecules is perfectly organized, then the molecules can do ten units of work. However, if the energy became less organized (so, the entropy increased), the molecules might only be able to do six units of work, even though they still have ten units of energy in them.

When total entropy is reached, there is no more energy to spend. A good example of this is a cup of hot tea. The tea has a lot of energy compared to the room the tea is in. Over time the heat in the tea will spread into the room. The tea will become colder. This is because the energy (heat) in the tea moves to the surrounding area. Once the tea became cold, there is no more heat that can be spread. The tea has reached total entropy.

There are two types of these "rooms": An open system and a closed system. An open system means that energy (like heat) can freely flow in and out of the room. A closed system means that the room is closed off from the outside; no energy can go in or out.

In the case of the tea, the room was a closed system; no energy could enter it. But we can also make it an open system by placing a heater into the room. If we turn on the heater, we can use the heat from it to reheat the cup of tea. New energy has been brought into the room. The entropy has thus decreased. The heat that went from the heater into the tea can then move into the room again until total entropy has been reached. This is what the second law of thermodynamics is about.

A real life example of an open system is the Earth. It gets a lot of energy from the Sun every day. This allows plants to grow and water to stay liquid. If we took away the Sun, plants would die and water would freeze because the surface of our planet would be too cold.

[[Cornell University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Ivy League, 1865 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in New York (state), Cornell University

Cornell University (kɔrˈnɛl kor) is in Ithaca, New York, United States.  It is a private land-grant university, receiving annual funding from the State of New York for certain educational missions. Ezra Cornell and Andrew Dickson White co-founded it in 1865 by sponsoring a bill in the New York State Legislature to designate it as New York's land grant college. The university was intended to teach and make contributions in all fields of knowledge–from the classics to the sciences and from the theoretical to the applied. This goal was uncommon in 1865.  The goal is stated in Cornell's motto, an 1865 Ezra Cornell quotation: "I would found an institution where any person can find instruction in any study." Since its founding, Cornell has also been a co-educational, secular institution where admission is offered irrespective of gender, religion or race.

The university has seven undergraduate colleges and seven graduate divisions at its main Ithaca campus, with each college and division defining its own admission standards and academic programs in near autonomy. The university also administers two satellite medical campuses, one in New York City and one in Education City, Qatar. Cornell is one of two private land grant universities, and its seven undergraduate colleges include three state-supported statutory or contract colleges. As a land grant college, it also operates a cooperative extension outreach program in every county of New York.

Cornell counts more than 255,000 living alumni, 31 Marshall Scholars, 28 Rhodes Scholars and 41 Nobel laureates as affiliated with the university. It has 13,000 undergraduate and 6,000 graduate students from all 50 states and 122 countries.

Cornell's athletics teams are called the Big Red, and they have 36 varsity teams. They play against other teams in the Ivy League.

[[Bolognese sauce]]

CATEGORIES: Sauces, Bologna

Bolognese sauce is a sauce made with meat that is then mixed with pasta before eating. It is called Ragù alla bolognese in Italy. The sauce came from Bologna in Italy.

Most Italian people eat their Bolognese sauce with tagliatelle, a broad, flat type of pasta. It can also be served with ribbon or tube shaped pasta.

[[Lixion Avila]]

CATEGORIES: American meteorologists, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Dr. Lixion Avila is a weather forecaster with the National Hurricane Center (NHC). He has been a senior hurricane specialist.

[[Pug]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds, Molossers

The pug  is a type of dog with a wrinkly face. It also has a curled tail, and pug puppies are called puglets. The pug has a square, muscular body with a large head, big eyes, and small ears. They have often been described as multum in parvo, which means "much in little", referring to the pug's character and size. Pugs came originally from Taiwan, but they became popular in England, Ireland, and Scotland.

[[Command economy]]

CATEGORIES: Economic systems

A command economy is where the big decisions are made and owned at the centre by the government.  A planned economy is where the big decisions are made at the centre by the government. 

In an economic system the main decisions are, for example, allocating resources like labour, capital and oil. Prices, too, are controlled. In a command economy, these decisions are taken by a central body, usually the government. This system contrasts that of a market economy where all the economic actors involved take decisions. The benefit of a planned economy is that the planning body has (supposedly) perfect information, and can make a better decision than in the market economy. Countries at war sometimes command their people to make things the war needs; the major powers in World War II did this.

Friedrick von Hayek, a 20th-century economist, thought that it is not possible for the planning body to have perfect information. For this reason, the decisions taken by this body will be wrong, as it is not possible to foresee all possible events. Once the decision has been taken there is only a small margin to vary the production; this means that a planned economy cannot adapt to a change as rapidly as a market economy. According to Ludwig von Mises, there is no competition, and there are no reasons to innovate or to look for different solutions to a problem, in a planned economy.

Planned economies have sometimes been successful. After World War I and the Russian Civil War the Soviet Union was very undeveloped, but the command economy was able to resume pre-war industrial growth, to build houses and to bring electric power distribution to millions. In a few decades the country became strong and started space travel.

Communism is a type of government system that would use a command economy. The only country that now employs a pure command system is North Korea. All the other communist countries that operated under the command system have converted to a mixed economy that resembles the market system. Formerly, the Eastern Bloc and China were command economies, and are now mixed economies where the government still has a major influence.

[[Charles Ives]]

CATEGORIES: 1874 births, 1954 deaths, 20th century composers, American composers, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Connecticut, Yale University alumni

Charles Edward Ives (October 30, 1874 – May 19, 1954) was an American composer.   He experimented with new ways of composing which many people did not understand at the time. These became more widely used later in the century.  He used dissonant (harsh) sounding intervals and techniques such as polytonality (playing in several keys at once), polyrhythms (several rhythms at once) and polytextures (several textures at once).  Very few people listened to his music at the time he was writing it.  Only much later did musicians  start to realize the importance of his work.   Ives earned his living as an insurance agent.  He composed in his spare time.

[[Flageolet]]

CATEGORIES: Flutes

A flageolet is an old woodwind instrument.  It belongs to the end-blown flute family.  It started to be used in the 16th century for folk music.  Soon there were two kinds: the French kind and the English.    The French flageolet had four holes in the front and two in the back.  The English flageolet had six holes in the front.

The flageolet is quite similar to the recorder.  In the 18th century it changed because a narrow mouthpiece made of ivory or bone was added at the top.  This led into another section which bulged out.  There was a soft sponge at the end of this.  Sometimes this instrument was called the "flautino".  The piccolo developed from it.  Another instrument that developed from it was the tin whistle.

Henry Purcell and George Frideric Handel both wrote pieces for it.

Small versions of this instrument, called bird flageolets were also made and were used for teaching birds to sing.

[[Paris Opera]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Paris, Theatres in France

Paris Opéra or the Opéra National de Paris is the most important opera company of France. It stages performances at the Opéra Bastille and Opéra Garnier in Paris. The theatre is also the home of the Paris Opéra Ballet.

Other opera houses in Paris are the Théâtre du Châtelet, Opéra-Comique and Théâtre des Champs-Élysées.

[[Faust]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters, Faust

Faust or Faustus is a character from German legendary stories.  His name comes from a Latin word meaning "lucky".  The legend is about a man called Faust.  Faust wants to have knowledge.  He meets the Devil.  The Devil tells Faust he can have anything he wants.  In return, the Devil says, Faust must give him his soul.  Faust agrees, and the Devil lets Faust have a wonderful time, but in the end Faust has to go to Hell.

The story of Faust became famous all over Europe.  Many writers from different countries wrote their own versions of the Faust story, e.g. Christopher Marlowe, Goethe, Mikhail Bulgakov, Thomas Mann.  Many composers wrote music about Faust, e.g. Hector Berlioz, Franz Liszt, Charles Gounod and Ferrucio Busoni.

The adjective "Faustian" is used to describe a person who wants something so much that it leads them into trouble.

In the early versions of the Faust story: in ballads, dramas and puppet-plays, Faust is always damned (meaning he will have to go to Hell).  This is because he prefers human knowledge instead of God’s knowledge.  This was thought to be very bad at that time.

Some of the plays and comic puppet theatre from around the 16th century make up their own versions of the story.  They often show Faust as a figure of vulgar fun. The story became popular in England when Christopher Marlowe wrote a play called The Tragical History of Doctor FaustusSeptember 2021. But in Goethe's version of the story two centuries later, Faust is described as a well-educated man who wants more than just "meat and drink."

[[Robert Mulligan]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2008 deaths, American movie directors, Entertainers from New York City

Robert Mulligan (August 23, 1925 – December 20, 2008) was an Academy Award-nominated American movie and television director. He directed movies such as To Kill a Mockingbird and The Man in the Moon. 

[[Austin Motor Company]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 establishments in the United Kingdom, British automobile companies

Austin was a British car manufacturing company that began production in 1905. The company merged with Morris in 1952, becoming the lead partner in British Motor Corporation. This became British Leyland and then Rover Group. They began phasing the brand out in 1987; by 1989 all Rover Group cars had been cleared of Austin branding. The name has now passed into the ownership of Nanjing Motor Corporation, who have stated an interest in reviving it.

[[Flag of Puerto Rico]]

CATEGORIES: Flags of the United States, Puerto Rico, Flags of country subdivisions

The flag of Puerto Rico consists of five equal horizontal bands of red (top and bottom) alternating with white; a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side has a large, white, five-pointed star in the center.

The flag was created in 1892. In 1952, the flag became the official national flag of Puerto Rico. 

[[Crescent and star]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, National symbols of Pakistan, Symbols

The Islamic Crescent is a symbol consisting of a crescent with a star at the concave side. In its modern form, the star is usually shown with five points (though in earlier centuries a higher number of points was often used). The two signs together, or the crescent only, was long a symbol of Byzantium. Now it is often a symbol of Islam. It is seen on a number of different country flags such as Turkey and Pakistan respectively.

Flag of Ottoman Empire was the first flag featuring a crescent with a star. Other states formerly part of the Ottoman Empire also used the symbol, so the symbol emerged into popular use.

[[Cootamundra, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Cootamundra is a town in New South Wales, Australia. In 2006 there were 5,566 people living in Cootamundra.  It is on the Olympic Highway where it crosses the Muttama Creek, between Junee and Cowra.  Cootamundra's railway station is on the main Melbourne-to-Sydney railway line.

Sir Donald Bradman AC, Australian cricketer said to be the greatest batsman of all time was born in Cootamundra.  The town is very proud of Bradman, and uses this in signs and tourist information. The home where The Don was born is a fully restored visitor site open to the public seven days per week.

Cootamundra is the home of the Cootamundra Wattle (Acacia Baileyana).  Every year there is a large 'Wattle Time' Festival (which happens when the wattle starts to bloom) with an art show and festivities.

[[Acacia baileyana]]

CATEGORIES: Trees of Australia, Shrubs, Mimosoideae

The Cootamundra Wattle is an Australian shrub or tree. It is in the Family Fabaceae. The tree's Latin name, Acacia baileyana, is named after the botanist Frederick Manson Bailey.  It is one of nearly 1000 species of Acacia found in Australia.  The Cootamundra Wattle at first only came from a small area in southern New South Wales near Cootamundra. It has been widely planted all over Australia. In many areas of Victoria Cootamundra Wattle has become a weed. It is taking over from acacias that were only found in Victorian.

Almost all wattles have cream to golden colored flowers. The small flowers are arranged in round to cylindrical clusters. Only the stamens, the male part of the flower, stick out. Many wattles have been planted in New Zealand.

[[Kermanshah]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Kermanshah or Kermashan (کرمانشاه, Kermānshāh; کرماشان, Kirmaşan), is the capital city of Kermanshah Province, in Iran, in Iranian Kurdistan.  Kermanshah is the largest Kurdish city in Iran. The city is 525 km from Tehran in the western part of Iran and it is about 120 km from the border of in Iraq. Kermanshah has a continental climate.

The estimated population of the city was 822,921 in the year 2005. The majority of the population speak a Kurdish language as well as the Persian language. The religion of the people is diverse, but Muslims are leading in the number.

[[Rider Strong]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American child actors, Actors from San Francisco

Rider King Strong (born December 11, 1979) is an American movie and television actor. He became famous in the 1990s as the character Shawn Hunter in the television series Boy Meets World.

[[John O'Meally]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 births, 1863 deaths, Bushrangers

John O'Meally (1841 – 19 November 1863) was an Australian bushranger and criminal. He was one of Frank Gardiner's gang who robbed the gold escort coach at Eugowra. This was Australia's biggest gold robbery.

[[America's Next Top Model, Cycle 3]]

CATEGORIES: America's Next Top Model

[[Goethe's Faust]]

CATEGORIES: Plays, Faust, Works by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe

Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's Faust  is the most famous play in all German literature.  It was published in two parts.  Part One is very dramatic, and tells the main story.  Part II is extremely long, and it is meant to be read rather than acted on stage.  It is about Goethe’s philosophy as well as about history and politics.

[[Nitric acid]]

CATEGORIES: Acids, Nitrogen compounds

Nitric Acid (HNO3) is a very corrosive and toxic strong acid that can cause severe burns. It is also known as aqua fortis. Nitric Acid is used in rocket fuels, to help make wood look older, and is used in explosives.

It can react with metals such as copper to produce a brown toxic gas called nitrogen dioxide. It is made by reaction of nitrogen dioxide with water.

In alchemy, it is known as aqua fortis, or strong water. It can dissolve silver but leaves gold unharmed, making it a good test for gold. The term acid test came from this test.

[[Killing of Peter Fechter]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 deaths, 1960s crimes, 1960s in Europe, Berlin Wall, Cold War, Deaths by firearm in Germany, German crime victims, Manslaughter victims

Peter Fechter (14 January 1944 - 17 August 1962) is one of the best known victims of the Berlin Wall. Fechter was a bricklayer. Aged 18, he tried to cross the wall into the West, near Checkpoint Charlie, to live with his sister. He did this with his friend and colleague, Helmut Kulbeik. Both started to climb the wall at around 14:15. Kubelik was successful, and could escape. Fechter was hit by several gunshots, one of which pierced his lung, and fell back down, to what was called the Death strip. He was unable to move, and started to cry for help. Crowds started to gather on both sides of the wall; on the east side, they were dispersed by police.

Police gathered on the west side threw medical kits to him; despite the crowd asking them, they would not do more. The DDR border guards did not do anything either; neither did the United States personnel on duty at the Checkpoint.

Fechter bled to death after about an hour. After reunification, two border police were found guilty of manslaughter. They were convicted and given suspended prison terms of 20 and 21 months respectively. Both had told the court they fired shots at Fechter, but did not want to kill him. The court also ruled that Fechter was killed by the shots, and not by the absence of aid. The evidence could not show who of three gunman (one had already died) was responsible for the bullet that killed Fechter.

[[Manchester Metrolink]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 establishments in England, Electric railways in the United Kingdom, Greater Manchester, Light rail in the United Kingdom, Rail transport in England, Tram transport in the United Kingdom

Manchester Metrolink (or usually just Metrolink) is the name of the tram system in Greater Manchester, England. The system is owned by Transport for Greater Manchester (TfGM), which used to be called the Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive (GMPTE). It is operated under contract by the RATP Group.

[[Nitrate]]

CATEGORIES: Nitrogen compounds

Nitrate (NO31-) is a polyatomic ion. It is made up of one nitrogen and three oxygen atoms. It is part of many important molecules. Potassium nitrate is a common type of nitrate. It is often used in fertilizers because plants need both potassium and nitrates to live and grow. Sodium nitrate is also used in preserving foods. 

Some nitrates are explosive. People make large amounts of nitrates from ammonia. Nitrates are similar to nitrites. Many metal nitrates with thermal decomposition makes oxygen and metal nitrate.

Nitric acid has the formula HNO3  and has no overall charge, because the hydrogen ion is positive.  

Nitrate has a group valency of 1. 

[[Supertram (Sheffield)]]

CATEGORIES: Tram transport in the United Kingdom

Supertram is a tram network in Sheffield, England. The track and connected items are owned by South Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive (SYPTE). Stagecoach Group run and look after the vehicles, through their Stagecoach Supertram branded company.

[[Happy Xmas (War Is Over)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 songs, John Lennon, Christmas music

"Happy Xmas (War Is Over)" is a Christmas song by John Lennon, Yoko Ono and The Plastic Ono Band.

The song is a protest about the Vietnam War in 1969. It has become a Christmas standard and has appeared on several Christmas albums.

[[Nottingham Express Transit]]

CATEGORIES: Tram transport in the United Kingdom, Light rail in the United Kingdom

Nottingham Express Transit (or in short NET) is a light-rail tramway in the Nottingham area in England. The first line opened to the public on 9 March 2004. It cost £200 million to construct. It took 16 years from the first idea of the system until it was built. It is operated by Nottingham Tram Consortium, a 50:50 partnership between Transdev and Nottingham City Transport.

[[Queanbeyan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New South Wales, 1833 establishments

Queanbeyan is a  city in New South Wales, Australia. It is also the local government area called Queanbeyan City Council. It is very close to the Australian federal capital city of Canberra. It is really now a part of the capital city as it is on the Australian Capital Territory border and is only 10 from Canberra's CBD. The border itself is marked by a railway line. The Queanbeyan River flows through Queanbeyan, near the centre of the city.

[[Sarah Brightman]]

CATEGORIES: English singers, Sopranos, 1960 births, Living people

Sarah Brightman (born 14 August 1960) is an English classical crossover soprano, actress, songwriter and dancer.

She is the best-selling soprano of all times.

[[Philip IV of Spain]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens of Spain, 1605 births, 1665 deaths, Counts and countesses of Flanders, Archdukes and Archduchesses of Austria

Philip IV (Felipe IV, Filipe III; 8 April 1605 – 17 September 1665) was King of Spain between 1621 and 1665 He was also sovereign of the Spanish Netherlands and King of Portugal until 1640.

His daughter was Marie Thérèse of Austria, wife of Louis XIV. All but three of his children died in childhood.

[[Mount Erebus]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes, Mountains of Antarctica

Mount Erebus is a volcano on Ross Island in Antarctica. It is the most southern active volcano in the world.

Erebus is 3895 high.

[[Air New Zealand Flight 901]]

CATEGORIES: 1979, Antarctica, Aviation disasters in the 1970s

Air New Zealand Flight 901 was a flight that operated from 1977 to 1979. The flight did not stop in Antarctica. It was a sightseeing flight to Antarctica. It was supposed to loop between Auckland, New Zealand, and Antarctica.    

The flight's route had been changed without the crew's knowledge shortly before the plane took off. Because the weather conditions of the Antarctic were so bad (severely limiting visibility), and the crew believed they were following the original flight plan-the plane crashed straight into Mount Erebus. None of the 257 people on board the plane survived the crash. The original investigation showed it was the pilot's fault, but people protested and it led to an inquiry into the crash. The conclusion was the accident was caused by a correction made to the route the night before the disaster, and they failed to inform pilot Captain Jim Collins and co-pilot Greg Cassin.

[[Amborella]]

CATEGORIES: Magnoliopsida

Amborella trichopoda is a small, evergreen shrub. It occurs only in the moist, shaded understory of montane forests on the South Pacific island of New Caledonia. The genus is the only member of the family Amborellaceae and contains only this single species.

Amborella is of great interest to plant systematists because molecular phylogenetic analyses put it at or near the base of the flowering plant lineage.

Since Amborella is apparently basal among the flowering plants, the features of early flowering plants can be inferred. This is done by comparing derived traits shared by other angiosperms but not present in Amborella. These traits are assumed to have evolved after the divergence of the Amborella lineage.

The Amborellaceae are a line of flowering plants that diverged very early on (about 130 million years ago) from all the other living species of flowering plants. Among living flowering plants, it is the sister group to all other flowering plants.

[[Sandon, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in British Columbia

Sandon, British Columbia is a mining town in British Columbia, Canada. It is also the place where Cecil 'Tiny' Thompson was born.

[[God is dead]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Phrases

"God is dead" (German: De-Gott_ist_tot.ogg) is a well known phrase by the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche. It is also known as the death of God. The phrase is not meant literally. Instead it is about what value destruction has done to people's belief in Christianity. Some religious thinkers do take it literally though.

Nietzsche wrote this phrase in his book The Gay Science (no). It is in the section called "The Madman". He also used the phrase in his book Thus Spoke Zarathustra (no), which is most responsible for making the phrase popular.cn

The idea is written in "The Madman" as follows:

[[Jean-François Le Sueur]]

CATEGORIES: 1760 births, 1837 deaths, French composers, People from Hauts-de-France

Jean-François Le Sueur (or Lesueur) (15 February 1760 — 6 October 1837) was a French composer, best known for his oratorios and operas.

[[Anton Reicha]]

CATEGORIES: Classical era composers, Romantic composers, Music theorists, Czech composers, 1770 births, 1836 deaths

Anton Reicha (born 26 February 1770; died 28 May 1836) was a Czech-born  composer who became naturalized French. He was a lifelong friend of Beethoven.

Reicha is now best remembered for the large number of quintets that he wrote for wind instruments, and for his work as a music teacher.  Franz Liszt and Hector Berlioz were both pupils of Reicha.  Reicha wrote several books about music theory and composition.

[[British Rail Class 01]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

British Rail's Class 01 diesel locomotives were a short wheelbase 0-4-0 diesel-mechanical design intended for use in areas with tight curves and limited clearance.

[[British Rail Class 02]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives, YEC locomotives

The British Rail Class 02 were a class of twenty 0-4-0 diesel-hydraulic shunting locomotives. They were built by the Yorkshire Engine Company in 1960 (first ten, D2850-D2859) and 1961 (D2860-D2869). They were built for use in places of restricted loading gauge and curves such as docks.  They had the door to the cab at the rear, with a railed veranda behind the cab. This feature was very unusual on British Rail locomotives. It was used on many Yorkshire Engine Co. designs and was/is quite normal in North American practice.

[[British Rail Class 03]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 03 locomotive is, together with Class 04, one of BR's most successful smaller 0-6-0 diesel-mechanical shunters.  There are 230 members of the class and it was built by British Railways' Swindon and Doncaster works in 1957-1962. They are numbered D2000-D2199 and D2370-D2399 (later 03004 to 03399). D2370 and D2371 were used as departmental locomotives and originally numbered 91 and 92 respectively.

[[British Rail Class 04]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 04 0-6-0 diesel-mechanical shunting locomotive class was built between 1952 and 1962. It was the basis for the later Class 03 built in the British Railways workshops.  The Class 04 locomotives were supplied by the Drewry Car Co., which at the time (and for most of its existence) had no manufacturing capability. Drewry sub-contracted the construction work to two builders. Both of these built other locomotives under the same arrangement. Early locomotives were built by Vulcan Foundry and later examples were built by Robert Stephenson and Hawthorns.

[[Tajik people]]

CATEGORIES: Persian people, Ethnic groups in Afghanistan, Ethnic groups in Asia

Tajiks (تاجيک Tājīk) are a Persian-speaking Iranian ethnic group who are mostly found in what is now Tajikistan, including in parts of Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and China. Alternative names for the Tajiks are (Eastern) Persian, Dehqan, and Farsiwan.  After the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, some Tajik refugees escaped to live in neighboring Iran and Pakistan. Most Tajiks are Sunni Muslims, but a few in remote mountain areas follow Shia Islam alongside pockets in cities such as Herat and Kabul.

The name Tajik being used for this group of people began in the early 20th century by the Russians. Before that, they were called Sarts. The name Tajik refers to the traditionally sedentary people who speak a form of Persian language called Tajiki in Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, and officially called Dari in Afghanistan.

It is generally accepted that the origin of the word Tajik is Middle Persian Tāzīk "Arab" (New Persian: Tazi), or an Iranian (Sogdian or Parthian) cognate word. Some Turks of Central Asia adopted a variant of this word, Täžik, to designate the Persian Muslims in the Oxus basin and Khorasan, who were the Turks' rivals. 

Historians believe that the Tajiks may be connected to ancient Aryans who lived in the region for thousands of years. They were the heirs and transmitters of the Central Asian sedentary culture that diffused in prehistoric times from the Iranian plateau into an area extending roughly from the Caspian Sea to the borders of China. The Aryans constituted the core of the ancient population of Khwarezm, Sogdiana and Bactria, which formed part of Transoxania. They were included in the empires of Persia and Alexander the Great, and they mixed with later invaders like the Mauryans, Kushans and Hepthalites. Over the course of time, the language that was used by these ancient people eventually gave way to Farsi, a western dialect now officially spoken in Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan. In the 13th century, Genghis Khan and his Mongol army settled in many of the popular Persian cities after wiping out the Persian population. These Mongols later adopted the Persian language and the religion of Islam, the Persian-speaking Hazaras claiming partial descent from them. Tajiks usually reject a Mongol or Turkic origin and claim to be descended from the ancient Iranians of Central Asia. However, historically, there has been heavy intermixing between the sedentary Turkic-speaking Central Asians and the Persian-speaking Central Asians

[[Heart-Shaped Box]]

CATEGORIES: Nirvana songs, 1993 songs

"Heart-Shaped Box" is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana. It was written by lead singer and guitarist Kurt Cobain. It was released on August 23, 1993 as the first single from their third studio album In Utero.

Cobain's wife Courtney Love thought the song was about her, although it was actually written about children with cancer.

[[British Rail Class 05]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 05 is a class of 0-6-0 diesel-mechanical shunters built by Hunslet Engine Company from 1955 to 1961. They were used on the Eastern and Scottish Regions of British Railways. At first they were numbered 11136-11176 and later on were numbered D2550-D2619.

[[British Rail Class 06]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 06 is a class of 0-4-0 diesel-mechanical shunters built by Andrew Barclay from 1958 to 1960 for use on the Scottish Region of British Railways. They were originally numbered D2410-D2444 and later given the TOPS numbers 06001-06010. 

[[Paul Thompson]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1991 deaths, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, New York Rangers players, Sportspeople from Calgary, Stanley Cup champions

Paul Ivan Thompson (born November 2, 1906 in Calgary, Alberta - September 13, 1991) was a Canadian ice hockey player. He was a left wing. 

Thompson started playing in the National Hockey League (NHL) in 1926. He played for the New York Rangers and the Chicago Black Hawks. He stopped playing in 1939. 

He was part of the All-Star team two times. He won the Stanley Cup three times. He won in 1928 with New York and in 1934 and 1938 with Chicago.

His brother was Tiny Thompson.

[[Junior ice hockey]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey

Junior ice hockey, most often referred to as junior hockey, describes many levels of ice hockey play for players generally between the ages of 16 and 20 years old.

[[British Rail Class 07]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives, Ruston & Hornsby locomotives

The British Rail Class 07 diesel locomotive is an off-centre cab dock shunter. They were used in Southampton Docks, to replace SR USA Class steam locomotives.  It is a 0-6-0 diesel-electric shunter built by Ruston & Hornsby in 1962.   They were originally numbered D2985-D2998 and later given the TOPS numbers 07001(D2985)-07013(D2997), D2998.

[[Memorial Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey trophies and awards, Memorial Cup

The 'Memorial Cup is the trophy for the winners of the Canadian Hockey League (CHL). Every year, winning teams from the three CHL  leagues, the Western Hockey League (WHL), the Ontario Hockey League (OHL), and the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL), and the hosting team, compete in a tournament. The Spokane Chiefs are the most recent winners.

[[British Rail Class 08]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 08 is a class of diesel locomotive designed for shunting.  It was the standard BR diesel-electric shunter. It was based on the LMS 12033 series (later TOPS Class 11).  Production started in 1953 and when it finished in 1962, the class had become the most numerous of all British classes, numbering 996 in total. There were also 26 of the near-identical but higher geared Class 09, and 171 similar locomotives fitted with different engines and transmissions (some of which became Class 10), which together brought the total number of outwardly-similar machines to 1193.

Since their introduction, rail freight has primarily moved to fixed-rate bulk freight traffic and intermodal freight operations which reduce or remove the need for shunting, therefore only a few class 08 locomotives remain in service today.

[[Yellow fever]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses, Diseases spread by insects

Yellow fever is an acute viral haemorrhagic disease transmitted by infected mosquitoes. The illness can cause bleeding problems. It is called yellow because it makes the skin and the eyes yellow in color, like jaundice.

There is a vaccine which can stop the disease, but many people in Africa and South America are not vaccinated against it. The World Health Organization say that 200,000 people are made ill with yellow fever every year, and that 30,000 people die from it.

Yellow fever peaked in 1842, killing hundreds of people. There was an outbreak in Philadelphia in 1793.

Yellow fever is spread through the bite of an infected mosquito. The name of the mosquito which commonly carries the virus is Aedes Aegypti. The female carries the disease.

The yellow fever originated in Central Africa.

[[Alexandra Burke]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Black British musicians, British R&B musicians, English pop musicians, British soul musicians, Singers from London, The X Factor winners, Alexandra Burke

Alexandra Imelda Cecelia Ewan Burke (born 25 August 1988 in Islington, London, England) is a British soul singer. She is known for winning the 2008 UK series of The X Factor. She had the 2008 Christmas number one single in the United Kingdom with a cover of Leonard Cohen's Hallelujah.

[[Opéra-Comique]]

CATEGORIES: Opera houses in France, Opera companies, Buildings and structures in Paris

The  Opéra-Comique is an opera house and opera company in Paris. Its full name is théâtre national de l’Opéra-Comique (National Opéra Comic Theatre).

The Opéra-Comique company was started in 1714 to give somewhere to perform French operas. At the time operas throughout Europe were nearly always in Italian. Opéra-comique (literally: Comic opera) was a French tradition. The operas in this tradition were performed with spoken dialogue between the musical numbers. This is why the opera house and company were given that name.

The Opéras-Comiques were more popular and less formal that the traditional Italian operas that were performed at the Académie Royale de Musique. During the three centuries of its existence there have been several changes to it. For a time the Opéra-Comique and the Opéra were organized by the same institution.

The Opéra-Comique put on first performances of many famous operas, especially Bizet's Carmen on 3 March 1875 and Debussy's only opera, Pelléas et Mélisande, on 30 April 1902. Berlioz's The Damnation of Faust was also first performed there on 6 December 1846. That first performance was a disaster.

The building in which the Opéra-Comique performs is called the "salle Favart,". It is not the same building as in 1714. Two previous buildings were burnt down in 1838 and 1887. The present building was built in 1898.

[[Walter Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1771 births, 1832 deaths, British playwrights, Scottish poets, Scottish writers

Sir Walter Scott, 1st Baronet, FRSE (15 August 1771 – 21 September 1832) was a Scottish historical novelist, playwright, and poet, widely popular in the first half of the 19th century.

Scott was the first English-language author to have a truly international career in his lifetime.  As adventures, Ivanhoe, and Rob Roy are very well-known, and both were made into films. Waverley is important because it is the first historical novel. It was, for most readers, their first encounter with Highland culture. Scott wove together history and fiction. What he started with Waverley, he continued with his other novels.

Scott's output was huge. Though many of his works are little read now, they sold well in their day, and paid for his great house, Abbotsford. Of his poetry The Lady of the Lake is best liked. 

Scott was also an advocate, judge and legal administrator by profession. Throughout his career he combined his writing and editing work with his daily occupation as Clerk of Session and Sheriff-Depute of Selkirkshire.

A prominent member of the Tory establishment in Edinburgh, Scott was an active member of the Highland Society and served a long term as President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (1820–32).

[[British Rail Class 09]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 09 is a class of 0-6-0 diesel locomotive designed primarily for shunting but also short distance freight trips along branch lines. For this reason, though similar to the existing Class 08 shunting locomotives, Class 09s were re-geared to give a maximum top speed of 27.5 mph (44 km/h) at the expense of a lower tractive effort. They originally operated in the Southern Region of British Railways, though following privatisation in 1997 they have been distributed much farther afield.

[[British Rail Class 10]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 10 diesel locomotive was a variation on the Class 08 diesel-electric shunter. A Blackstone diesel engine was fitted instead of one made by the English Electric company.  Traction motors were by either the General Electric Company plc (GEC) or British Thomson-Houston (BTH). 

The locomotives were built at the BR Works in Darlington and Doncaster over the period 1953-62.  Early batches were classified D3/4 (those with GEC motors) and D3/5  (those with BTH motors).

[[British Rail Class 11]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 11 is a diesel shunting locomotive built from April 1945 to December 1952. They are based on a similar earlier batch built by the London, Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) between 1934 and 1936.

[[British Rail Class 12]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 12 is a diesel locomotive built mainly for shunting duties. 

This was the second batch of standard Southern Railway shunters based on the English Electric 6KT 350 hp (260 kW) diesel engine.  These locomotives (BR numbers 15201-15203) were built by the SR in 1937 and were later classified D3/12. 

The Class 12 locomotives were built at the BR Ashford Works over the period 1949–1952. They were numbered 15211–15236 and became Class 12. No locomotives survived long enough to acquire Class 12 TOPS numbers though.

[[British Rail Class 13]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 13 was formed in 1965. The Tinsley Marshalling Yard needed more powerful shunters to move vehicles around.  This was provided by permanently coupling together two Class 08 shunters as a ‘master and slave’ (or ‘cow and calf’) unit. The second of the two units had its cab taken off.  Both units were ballasted to improve traction.  At first the units were coupled cab-to-cab but it was easier to couple Master nose to Slave cab. The thinking behind adopting this dual locomotive design is that a larger, rigid locomotive could not be used due to the risk of grounding on the hump.

[[British Rail Class 14]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 14 is a type of small diesel-hydraulic locomotive built in the mid-1960s.  Twenty-six of these 0-6-0 locomotives were ordered in January 1963, to be built at British Railways Swindon railway works. The anticipated work for this class was yard shunting, trip work (between local yards) and short distance freight trains. The order was expanded to 56 in mid-1963, before work had started on the first order.

[[British Rail Class 15]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives, YEC locomotives

The British Rail Class 15 diesel locomotives, also known as the BTH Type 1, were designed by British Thomson-Houston, and built by the Yorkshire Engine Company and the Clayton Equipment Company, between 1957 and 1961.

[[British Rail Class 16]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 16, originally known as the North British Type 1 was a type of diesel locomotive ordered under British Railways' 1955 Modernisation Plan. Like other Type 1 designs, they were relatively small locomotives intended primarily for local freight traffic.

[[British Rail Class 17]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 17, originally known as the Clayton Type 1, was a class of diesel locomotive operated by British Railways.

[[British Rail Class 20]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 20, originally known as an English Electric Type 1, is a class of diesel electric locomotive.  228 locomotives in the class were built by English Electric between 1957 and 1968. The large number was partly to do with the failure of other early designs in the same power range, and reliable locomotives being needed.

The locomotives were originally numbered D8000–D8199 and D8300–D8327. They are known by railway enthusiasts as "Choppers", a name taken from the distinctive beat the engine produces under load which resembles the sound of a helicopter.

[[Pawn (chess)]]

CATEGORIES: Chess pieces

The pawn (♙♟) is the weakest piece in the game of chess. They represent infantry. Each player starts the game with eight pawns, one on each square of the second row (or rank) from the view of the player. In the white pawns start on a2, b2, c2, ..., h2, while the black pawns start on a7, b7, c7, ..., h7.

[[British Rail Class 21]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 21, originally known as the North British Type 2 diesel-electric, was a type of  diesel locomotive built by the North British Locomotive Company in Glasgow for British Railways in 1958-1960.

Starting in 2007, the classification has been reused for new Vossloh G1206 acquired by Euro Cargo Rail/EWS.

[[British Rail Class 22]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives, NBL locomotives

The British Rail Class 22, originally called the North British Type 2 diesel-hydraulic, was a class of diesel-hydraulic locomotives designed for the Western Region of British Railways and built by North British Locomotive Company.  They were very similar in appearance to the Class 21 diesel-electrics. The Class 22 was nicknamed "Baby Warship" because of its similarity to the British Rail Class D20/2.

Category:Locomotives by builder

[[British Rail Class 23]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

British Rail Class 23, originally called English Electric Type 2, was a class of ten diesel-electric locomotives built by the English Electric Company in 1959. They were numbered from D5900 to D5909.  The power unit was a Napier Deltic T9-29 9 cylinder engine of 1,100 bhp. This drove an EE generator, which powered the four traction motors. The Class 23 was nicknamed "Baby Deltic" because of its similarity to the Class 55.

[[British Rail Class 24]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 24 diesel locomotives, originally known as the British Railways Type 2, were built from 1958 to 1961. One hundred and fifty-one of these locomotives were built at Derby, Crewe and Darlington. The first twenty locomotives were part of the 1955 British Rail modernisation plan. This class was used as the basis for the more powerful Class 25 locomotives.

The final survivor, no. 24081, was withdrawn from Crewe depot in 1980.

[[British Rail Class 25]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 25 diesel locomotives were originally known as British Railways Type 2. They were nicknamed Rats.  327 locomotives of this type were built between 1961 and 1967.

[[British Rail Class 26]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 26 diesel locomotives, originally known as BRCW Type 2, were built by the Birmingham Railway Carriage and Wagon Company (BRCW) at Smethwick in 1958-59. Forty seven examples were built, and the last were withdrawn from service in 1993. 

[[British Rail Class 27]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 27 was a diesel locomotive built by the Birmingham Railway Carriage and Wagon Company (BRCW) during 1961 and 1962.  They were a development of the earlier Class 26. Both were originally classified as BRCW Type 2. There were 69 locomotives in the class.

[[British Rail Class 28]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 28, originally known as Metropolitan-Vickers Type 2, diesel locomotives were built as part of the British Railways Modernisation Plan.  The locomotives had a Co-Bo wheel arrangement. There was a 6-wheel bogie at one end a 4-wheel bogie at the other end. This wheel arrangement was unique in British Railways practice but not uncommon in some other countries, notably Japan. This affected their route availability, due to the different axle loading at each end of the loco, and made maintenance more complicated.  The maximum tractive effort  was unusually high for a Type 2 locomotive but, as there were five (not four) driving axles, the risk of wheelslip was minimal.

[[British Rail Class 29]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 29 consisted of 20 diesel locomotives which were rebuilt from the North British Class 21. The original licence-built MAN engines of the Class 21s had proved unreliable, so in 1963 locomotive D6123 was sent to Paxman's Colchester works to receive a new Paxman Ventura V12 engine.  A further 19 were re-engined in 1964–1965 at Polmadie Works, with other changes made at the same time. This included the fitting of four-character headcode displays in the nose ends. After rebuilding, they returned to service from Eastfield depot in Glasgow.

Although these offered more power and much improved reliability over the original Class 21s, they did not survive much longer, due to their small class size and the use of a non-standard high-speed diesel engine. D6108 was withdrawn in May 1969 and scrapped by McWilliams of Shettleston in 1971, while the other 19 were withdrawn between April and December 1971 and scrapped at BR's Glasgow Works in 1971–72. No Class 21 or Class 29 locomotives survive today.

[[Chess piece]]

CATEGORIES: Chess pieces

In the board game chess, each player starts with 16 Chess pieces. The moves of the pieces are defined by tradition, and by the international chess federation, FIDE. 

The bottom-right square of the board for each player must be white.

[[Solanales]]

CATEGORIES: Solanales

The Solanales are an order of flowering plants, included in the asterid group of dicotyledons.  Some older sources used the name Polemoniales for this order.

[[British Rail Class 31]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives, A1A-A1A locomotives

The British Rail Class 31 diesel locomotives, also known as the Brush Type 2 and originally as Class 30, were built by Brush Traction from 1957–62.

[[British Rail Class 33]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 33 also known as the BRCW Type 3 or Crompton is a class of Bo-Bo diesel locomotives ordered in 1957 and built for the Southern Region of British Railways between 1959 and 1963.

A total of 98 class 33s were built by the Birmingham Railway Carriage and Wagon Company, and they were called "Cromptons" after the Crompton Parkinson electrical equipment installed in them.

Like their lower-powered BRCW sisters (BR classes 26 and 27) their bodywork and cab ends were of all steel construction

The original (1957) number sequence was D6500–D6597.

[[British Rail Class 35]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 35 is a class of mixed traffic B-B diesel locomotive with hydraulic transmission.  On account of their Mekydro-design hydraulic transmission units, the design became known as the Hymeks.

The type was developed for the Western Region of British Railways, which had opted for lightweight locomotives with hydraulic transmission when allocated funds under the British Railways Modernisation Plan of 1955.  One hundred and one of the class were built between 1961 and 1964 when it became apparent that there was a requirement for a medium power diesel-hydraulic design for both secondary passenger work and freight duties.

They were allocated to Bristol Bath Road, Cardiff Canton and Old Oak Common. None of the class was named. Withdrawal from service began in 1971, and by 1975 all had been withdrawn.  Their early withdrawal was caused, primarily, by BR classifying the hydraulic transmission as non-standard. Four examples survived into preservation.

[[British Rail Class 37]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 37 is a diesel-electric locomotive.  It is also known as the English Electric Type 3. The Class was ordered as part of the British Rail modernisation plan.

The Class 37 became a familiar sight on many parts of the British Rail network. They were on Inter-City services in East Anglia and within Scotland. They also performed well on secondary and inter-regional services for many years. The Class 37 is known by railway enthusiasts as a "Tractor". This nickname came from the similarity of the sound of the locomotive.

[[British Rail Class 40]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 40 is a type of British railway diesel locomotive. Built by English Electric between 1958 and 1962, and eventually numbering 200, they were for a time the pride of the British Rail early diesel fleet.  Despite their initial success, by the time the last examples were entering service they were already being replaced on some top-link duties by more powerful locomotives.  As they were slowly relegated from express passenger uses, the type found work on secondary passenger and freight services where they worked for many years, the final locomotives being retired from regular service in 1985.

[[Asterids]]

CATEGORIES: Asterids

In the APG II system, for the classification of flowering plants, asterids are a clade of eudicots. That means they are a monophyletic group.

The clade includes 17 orders in the traditional Linnaean system. 

Common examples include the forget-me-nots, nightshades, potatoes, eggplants, tomatoes, peppers, tobacco, petunias, morning glory, sweet potato, coffee, lavender, lilac, olive, jasmine, honeysuckle, ash tree, teak, snapdragon, sesame, psyllium, garden sage, and a number of table herbs such as mint, basil, and rosemary.

[[Eudicots]]

CATEGORIES: Eudicots

Eudicots and Eudicotyledons are a type of flowering plant. They are one of the two major clades. A few examples of eudicots are forget-me-not, cabbage, apple, dandelion, buttercup, maple and macadamia.

[[Caryophyllales]]

CATEGORIES: Caryophyllales

Caryophyllales is a flowering plant order that includes the cacti, carnations, amaranths, ice plants, and most carnivorous plants.  Many members are succulent, having fleshy stems or leaves.

[[British Rail Class 41]]

There have been two distinct types of British Rail locomotive that are referred to as Class 41.

[[British Rail Class 42]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

British Railways' (BR) Type 4 "Warship" class diesel-hydraulic locomotives were introduced in 1958. It was apparent at that time that the largest centre of expertise on diesel-hydraulic locomotives was in Germany.  The Western Region of British Railways (in view of post-World War II sensibilities) negotiated a licence with German manufacturers to scale down the German Federal Railway's "V200" design to suit the smaller loading gauge of the British network, and to allow British manufacturers to construct the new design.  The resultant design bears a close resemblance both cosmetically and in the engineering employed. They were divided into two batches: examples built at BR's Swindon works were numbered in the series D800 to D832 and from D866 to D870, had a maximum tractive effort of 52,400 pounds force and are the British Rail Class 42 of this article.  33 others, D833-865, were constructed by the North British Locomotive Company and became British Rail Class 43.  They were allocated to Bristol Bath Road, Plymouth Laira, Newton Abbot and Old Oak Common.

[[British Rail Class 43]]

There have been two types of British Rail locomotive that have been allocated Class 43.

[[British Rail Class 44]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 44 or Sulzer Type 4 diesel locomotives were built by British Railways' Derby Works between 1959 and 1960. They were named after British mountains, and were then nicknamed Peaks.

[[British Rail Class 45]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 45 also known as the Sulzer Type 4 diesel locomotives were built by British Rail at their Derby and Crewe Works between 1960 and 1962. They were the successors to the Class 44 locomotives. When initially put into service the locomotives were fitted with multi-unit working and steam heating boilers for passenger service. In the early 1970s fifty were fitted with electric train supply in place of their steam heating boilers, and assigned to work services on the Midland Main Line from London St Pancras to Nottingham, Derby and Sheffield. All were withdrawn from service by 1989.

[[British Rail Class 46]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 46 is a class of diesel locomotive.  They were built from 1961–1963 at British Railways' Derby Works and were initially numbered D138-D193. With the arrival of TOPS computer system they were renumbered to Class 46.  Fifty-six locomotives were built.  The first was withdrawn in 1977 and all of them were withdrawn by 1984.

The Class 46 design was structurally the same as the earlier Class 45 build, and had the same Sulzer engine. It differed in the fitment of a Brush generator and traction motors, in place of the Crompton Parkinson equipment fitted to the Class 45.

[[British Rail Class 47]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 47 (Originally Brush Type 4) is a class of British railway diesel-electric locomotive that was developed in the 1960s by Brush Traction. A total of 512 Class 47s were built at Crewe Works and Brush's Falcon Works, Loughborough between 1962 and 1968, which made them the most numerous class of British mainline diesel locomotive.

They were fitted with the Sulzer 12LDA28C  twelve-cylinder diesel engine producing 2750 (later derated to 2580 bhp to improve reliability), and have been used on both passenger and freight trains on Britain's railways for over 40 years. Despite the introduction of more modern types of traction, as of 2008 a significant number are still in use, both on the mainline and on heritage railways.  As of December 2008, 103 locomotives still exist, with 29 working on the mainline.

[[British Rail Class 48]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 48 was a diesel locomotive class which consisted of five examples, built at Brush Falcon Works in Loughborough and delivered between September 1965 and July 1966.  They were part of the British Rail Class 47 order, but differed from their classmates by being fitted with a Sulzer V12 12LVA24 power unit producing 2650, as opposed to the standard 12LDA28C twin-bank twelve-cylinder unit of the remaining fleet.

[[British Rail Class 50]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail (BR) Class 50 is a diesel locomotive built from 1967–68 by English Electric at their Vulcan Foundry Works in Newton-le-Willows. Fifty of these locomotives were built to haul express passenger trains on the, then non-electrified, section of the West Coast Main Line between Crewe, Carlisle and Scotland. They were originally hired from English Electric Leasings, not being purchased outright by BR until around 1973. Under the pre-1968 classification system these locomotives were known as the English Electric Type 4. The class were affectionately nicknamed "Hoovers" by rail enthusiasts because of their distinctive engine sound, caused by the centrifugal air filters originally fitted. These proved unreliable, and were later removed, but the "Hoover" nickname stuck.

[[British Rail Class 52]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

British Rail assigned Class 52 to the class of 74 large Type 4 diesel-hydraulic locomotives built for the Western Region of British Railways between 1961 and 1964. All were given two-word names, with the first word being Western, and thus the type became known as Westerns.

[[British Rail Class 53]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

British Rail gave the name Class 53 to the single Brush Traction-built example train Falcon.  Although it worked, the idea of Class 53 was made old by new locomotive technology (like the power from single low-speed diesel engines) and was never made twice.

[[British Rail Class 55]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 55 is a class of diesel locomotive built between 1961 and 1962 by English Electric.  They were designed for the high-speed express passenger services on the East Coast Main Line between London King's Cross and Edinburgh. They gained the name "Deltic" from the prototype locomotive, DP1 Deltic, which in turn was named for its Napier Deltic power units. 22 locomotives were built, and they dominated services on the line until their withdrawal at the end of 1981.  Six locomotives were preserved and are still running today.

[[British Rail Class 56]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives, BREL locomotives

The British Rail Class 56 is a type of diesel locomotive designed for heavy freight work.  It is a Type 5 locomotive, with a Ruston-Paxman power unit developing 3,250bhp (2,423kW), and has a Co-Co wheel arrangement.  The fleet was introduced between 1976 and 1983.

The first thirty locomotives (Nos.56001-56030) were built by Electroputere in Romania, but these suffered from poor construction standards, and many were withdrawn from service early. The remaining 105 locomotives were built by BREL at Doncaster Works (Nos.56031 to 56115) and Crewe Works (Nos.56116 to 56135). Enthusiasts nicknamed them "Grids", likely due to the grid-like horn cover on the locomotive's cab ends. The 'Grid' name was given due to the fact that class 56 locomotives were the main motive power used on merry-go-round coal deliveries to national grid power stations.

[[British Rail Class 57]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 57 diesel locomotives is a diesel locomotive that was built by Brush Traction between 1997 and 2004. They are rebuilds, with new engines, of older Class 47 locomotives, originally introduced in 1964–1965. They are known as "bodysnatchers", or "Zombies" to enthusiasts, because the shell (body) of the class 47 has been stripped, rewired and re-engined. The first ever class 57 named was “Freightliner Envy” after the first one entering Freightliner.

[[British Rail Class 58]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives, BREL locomotives

The British Rail Class 58 is a class of Co-Co diesel locomotive designed for heavy freight.  Introduced in 1982, they followed American practice of modularisation. From new they were painted in grey Railfreight Sector livery, instead of BR blue. EWS withdrew them in 2002 after 20 years in service, though 30 were subsequently hired abroad—four to the Netherlands, eight to Spain, and twenty to France.

[[British Rail Class 59]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The Class 59 Co-Co diesel locomotives were built and introduced between 1985 and 1995 by General Motors Electro-Motive Diesel (EMD) for private British companies, initially Foster Yeoman. They were designed for hauling heavy freight and designated JT26CW-SS.

[[British Rail Class 60]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The British Rail Class 60 is a class of Co-Co diesel locomotive designed for heavy freight work. While they remain the most powerful diesel locomotives in the UK fleet they have suffered from poor reliability throughout their service life.

[[British Rail Class 66]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The Class 66 locomotive is a development of the Class 59 and used both on British and European railway networks—where it is marketed as EMD Series 66. 

[[British Rail Class 67]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The Class 67 locomotives are a type of diesel electric locomotives built from 1999 to 2000 by Alstom in Valencia, Spain under sub-contract from General Motors Diesel in Canada.

[[British Rail Class 70]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail class 70 was a class of three 3rd rail Co-Co electric locomotives. The initial two were built by the Southern Railway at Ashford Works in 1941 and 1945 and were numbered CC1 and CC2.  Electrical equipment was designed by Alfred Raworth and the body by Oliver Bulleid.  CC2 was modified slightly from the original design by C. M. Cock who had succeeded Raworth as Electrical Engineer. The third was built by British Railways in 1948 and numbered 20003.

[[Freightliner Project Genesis]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The Class 70 is a British designation for a type of diesel locomotive made by General Electric, which calls the type PowerHaul. The first were built for Freightliner (UK) by General Electric in a country in the  USA.

On 10 January 2011, while being unloaded by a crane from a boat after delivery, locomotive number 70012 was dropped from about 13 feet in the air back into the boat. 

[[Balaenoptera omurai]]

CATEGORIES: Baleen whales

Balaenoptera omurai is a species of whale. Little is known about it. It is called the dwarf fin whale, the little fin whale, or Omura's whale. It gets up to 11. 5 meters (about 38 feet) long. It lives in the Indo-Pacific.

Balaenoptera omurai is one of the Bryde's whales, a group of closely related and similar whales.

[[Rook (chess)]]

CATEGORIES: Chess pieces

A rook (from Persian رخ rokh) is a piece in the board game of chess. It gets its name from its name in the old Indo-Arabic game (see History of chess). Each player starts the game with two rooks. When recording games, it is shortened to R, and when printed a figurine is used.

[[Angels & Airwaves]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Musical groups from San Diego, California

[[Kolathur]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Tamil Nadu, Salem District

Kolathur (கொளத்தூர்) is a town in Salem district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. As of the 2001 India census, Kolathur had a population of 10,319. Males make up 53% of the population and females 47%. A total of 9% of the population is under 6 years of age.

[[Martha Jones (Doctor Who)]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

Dr.  Martha Jones is a fictional character who is played by Freema Agyeman in the television series Doctor Who and its spin-off series, Torchwood. She is a companion of the Tenth Doctor in Doctor Who, replacing Rose Tyler in the role of the main companion. She made her first appearance in Series 3's "Smith and Jones", broadcast in the UK on 31 March 2007.

[[Louis Antoine Jullien]]

CATEGORIES: 1812 births, 1860 deaths, French conductors

Louis Antoine Jullien (23 April 1812 – 14 March 1860) was a French conductor who was famous for his showmanship.

[[Parachutes (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay albums, Debut albums, 2000 albums, Rock albums

Parachutes is the debut studio album by Coldplay. The album was released on 10 July, 2000. Parachutes includes the hit singles "Don't Panic", "Trouble", "Yellow", and "Shiver".

[[A Rush of Blood to the Head]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay albums, 2002 albums

A Rush of Blood to the Head is the second studio album by Coldplay, released on 26 August, 2002. The album includes the singles "In My Place", "The Scientist", "Clocks", and "God Put a Smile Up On Your Face".

[[X&Y (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay albums, 2005 albums

X&Y is the third studio album by Coldplay, and was released on 6 June, 2005.

[[Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay albums, 2008 albums

Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends (or short for simply Viva la Vida) is the fourth studio album by the rock band Coldplay. Released on 12 June 2008, Coldplay recorded Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends from June 2007 - April 2008. In November Coldplay re-released Viva la Vida (album) and added more songs to the album from their EP called Prospekt's March. The singles "Violet Hill", "Viva la Vida", "Lost!", "Lost+ (ft. Jay-Z)", and "Lovers in Japan" are featured in the album and including the extended edition of Viva la Vida: Prospekt's March Edition.

[[Lost!]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay

Lost is a series of songs/singles recorded especially by Coldplay. The songs are a part of the full extended version of Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends called Prospect's March Edition. 

[[British Rail Class 71]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail Class 71 was an electric locomotive used on the Southern Region of British Railways. Unlike most other Southern Region electric locomotives (such as the class 73s & 74s) they could not operate away from the electrified (750 V DC third rail) system.

[[British Rail Class 73]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail Class 73 electro-diesel locomotives are very unusual in that they can operate from a 750 V DC third-rail supply but also have a diesel engine to allow them to operate on non-electrified routes. This makes them very versatile, although the diesel engine produces less power than is available from the third-rail supply so they rarely stray from the former Southern Region of British Rail. Following the withdrawal of the more powerful Class 74 electro-diesels in 1977, the Class 73 is now unique on the British rail system.

[[British Rail Class 74]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

British Rail class 74 was an electro-diesel locomotive that operated on the Southern Region of British Railways, rebuilt from redundant Class 71 locomotives in the late 1960s.  An electro-diesel locomotive is one that can operate either from an electrical supply, such as overhead lines or an energized third rail, or from an onboard diesel engine.

[[British Rail Class 76]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail Class 76, also known as Class EM1, is a class of 1.5kV DC, Bo-Bo electric locomotive designed for use on the now-closed Woodhead Line in Northern England.

[[British Rail Class 80]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives, A1A-A1A locomotives

Class 80  was the TOPS classification allocated by British Rail to the prototype 25 kV AC electric locomotive.  This locomotive was built by Metropolitan-Vickers, initially as a prototype Gas turbine-electric locomotive, numbered 18100.  British Rail allocated the number E1000 (and later E2001) to the locomotive following its conversion from gas turbine propulsion. 

[[British Rail Class 77]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail Class 77, also known as Class EM2, is a class of 1.5 kV DC, Co-Co electric locomotive. They were built by Metropolitan Vickers in 1953–1954 for use over the Woodhead Line between Manchester and Sheffield.

[[British Rail Class 81]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail Class 81 was an AC electric locomotive that operated on the West Coast Main Line on the London Midland Region of British Rail. Only one was preserved.

[[British Rail Class 84]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail Class 84 was a 25 kV AC electric locomotive that operated on the West Coast Main Line on the London Midland Region.

[[British Rail Class 86]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail Class 86 is a modern electric locomotive built during the 1960s, developed as a result of testing to replace the British rail  Classes 81, 82, 83, 84 and 85. One hundred of these locomotives were built from 1965-1966 by either English Electric at Vulcan Foundry, Newton-le-Willows, or British Rail (BR) at their Doncaster works. The class was built to haul trains on the then newly electrified West Coast Main Line, from London Euston, to Birmingham, Crewe, Manchester Piccadilly, Liverpool and later Preston and Glasgow. They helped to replace steam locomotives, which were finally withdrawn by BR in 1968. Most have been scrapped after accidents and other uses. Some were also exported to Hungary and Bulgaria. 3 have been preserved as of 2017.

[[British Rail Class 87]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives, BREL locomotives

The British Rail Class 87 is a type of electric locomotive built from 1973-75 by British Rail Engineering Limited (BREL). 36 of these locomotives were built to work passenger services over the West Coast Main Line (WCML). They were the flagships of British Rail's electric locomotive fleet until the late 1980s, when the Class 90s started to come onstream.  The privatisation of British Rail saw all but one of the fleet transferred to Virgin Trains; they continued their duties until the advent of the new Pendolino trains, when they were transferred to other operators or withdrawn. The last Class 87 in UK mainline use was withdrawn from service on 31 December 2007. Most have now been sold for reuse in Bulgaria.

[[British Rail Class 82]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail Class 82 electric locomotives were built by Beyer, Peacock and Company between 1960 and 1962 as part of the West Coast Main Line electrification.

[[British Rail Class 83]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail Class 83 were electric locomotives built by English Electric at Vulcan Foundry, Newton-le-Willows as part of the West Coast Main Line electrification.

[[British Rail Class 85]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The British Rail Class 85 is an electric locomotive built during the early 1960s, as part of BR's policy to develop a standard electric locomotive. Five prototype classes (81-85) were built and evaluated, which eventually led to the development of the Class 86 locomotive. The locomotives of Class 85 were Originally fitted with germanium rectifiers which were eventually replaced by silicon rectifiers. Forty of these locomotives were built from 1961-64 by BR at Doncaster Works. The class were used to haul trains on the then newly electrified West Coast Main Line, from Birmingham,  to Crewe, Manchester Piccadilly, Liverpool and later Preston. By 1965, electrification had spread south to London Euston.

Under the earlier BR classification, the type was given the designation AL5 (meaning the 5th design of 25 kV AC Locomotive), and locomotives were numbered E3056-E3095. In 1968, this was changed to Class 85, when BR introduced a new computer numbering system. From 1971 onwards, locomotives were progressively renumbered into the 85001-040 series. Fifteen locomotives were converted for freight only use, numbered in the 85/1 series. These locomotives were restricted to 80 mph. 

[[British Rail Class 89]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives, BREL locomotives

The Class 89 is a prototype design for an electric locomotive.  Only one unit was built, no. 89001, which was officially named Avocet by the then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher on January 16 1989 at Sandy, Bedfordshire - the home of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (whose logo is an avocet).  It was built in 1986, by BREL at their Crewe Works, and was used on test-trains on both the West Coast Main Line and East Coast Main Line. It was fitted with advanced power control systems and develops over 6,000 bhp (4,500 kW). It was given the nickname "Aardvark" although the railfans used to call it "The Badger" owing to its sloping front ends.

[[British Rail Class 90]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives, BREL locomotives

The British Rail Class 90 electric locomotives are electric locomotives that were built by BREL at Crewe from 1987-1990. Each locomotive weighs 84.5 tonnes and has a top speed of 110. They operate from 25 kV AC overhead wires and produce 5000. The class is employed on both express passenger services and heavy freight trains.

[[Japan Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Horse racing, 1981 establishments in Japan, November events

The Japan Cup is the most important horse race in Japan. It is held at the end of November in the Tokyo Racecourse. The race is 2400 metres long and the winner gets about ¥533 million (about US $4.6 million) as an award (the highest reward for horse racing in the world).

[[List of British Rail unbuilt locomotive classes]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail locomotives, British railway-related lists

There have been a number of TOPS class numbers assigned to proposed locomotives that have not been built for one reason or another.

[[British Rail Class 91]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives, BREL locomotives

The British Rail Class 91 is a class of 140 mph, 6,300 hp electric locomotives ordered specifically for the East Coast Main Line modernisation and electrification programme of the late 1980s. Built to replace the previous Class 43 (better known as the InterCity 125), the Class 91s were given the auxiliary name of InterCity 225 to indicate their status as a new version of the 125 and their envisaged top speed of 225 km/h (140 mph). The other end of the InterCity 225 train set is formed of a Driving Van Trailer, built with a similar bodyshell to the Class 91 locomotives.

[[Enchanted]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, Disney movies, English-language movies, American family movies

Enchanted is a 2007 American fantasy romantic comedy musical movie.  It was produced and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures in association with Barry Sonnenfeld and Josephson Entertainment. The story is about Giselle, a typical Disney Princess, who is forced from her traditional animated world into the live-action world of New York City.

The movie was first shown on October 20, 2007, at the London Film Festival. It released on November 21, 2007 in the United States. Enchanted was well-received critically. It won the 2007 Saturn Award for Best Fantasy Motion Picture, received two nominations at the 65th Golden Globe Awards and three nominations at the 80th Academy Awards. The movie earned more than $340 million worldwide at the box office.

[[British Rail Class 92]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

The Class 92 is a dual-voltage British railway locomotive which can run on 25 kV AC from overhead lines or 750 V DC from a third rail. It was designed specifically to operate services through the Channel Tunnel between Britain and France. Eurotunnel indicates the Class 92 locomotive as the reference for other locomotives which railway undertakings might want to get certified for usage in the Channel tunnel.

[[British Rail Class 93]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric locomotives

Class 93 is the traction classification assigned to the electric locomotives that were to enter service as part of British Rail's InterCity 250 project on the West Coast Main Line. They would have been derived from the Class 91 locomotives that entered service on the East Coast Main Line in 1989. The locomotive would have been used along with a train of up to nine Mark 5 coaches and a DVT, similar to the InterCity 225 sets. The locomotives would have been capable of up to 155 mph. Tenders to construct the locomotives and rolling stock were issued in March 1991, with an expected in service date of 1995; it was envisaged that up to 30 complete trains would be initially required, with a total cost estimated at £380 million. However, the InterCity 250 project was canceled in 1992, so the rolling stock orders were never made.  Here https://web.archive.org/web/20120205065817/http://www.therailwaycentre.com/Artists%20impressions/IC250_Cl93.jpg is a picture of what the cab may have looked like.

[[East Coast Main Line]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United Kingdom

East Coast Main Line is an electrified main line between London and Edinburgh in United Kingdom. The trains on this line are operated by National Express East Coast.

[[West Coast Main Line]]

CATEGORIES: Railway lines of England, Railway lines of London, Transport in Scotland, Rail transport in Wales

West Coast Main Line is a main line between London and Glasgow in United Kingdom. Train services are operated by Virgin Trains and CrossCountry.

[[Georg Michaelis]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 births, 1936 deaths, Chancellors of the German Empire, Foreign advisors to the government in Meiji-period Japan, German people of World War I, Ministers-President of Prussia, People from former German territories

Georg Michaelis (8 September 1857 – 24 July 24 1936) became the first Chancellor of Germany with a non-noble background.

[[1994 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1994 Atlantic hurricane season was the time from June 1 to November 30, 1994 when hurricanes officially formed in the Atlantic Ocean. Storms sometimes form before and after these dates but most storms form during the season. However, in this season no Tropical Cyclone formed after November 30, the end of the season because the last storm, Hurricane Gordon died on November 21, just nine days before the 30th.

The season was unusual in that it produced no major hurricanes, which are those of Category 3 status or higher on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. The strongest, Hurricane Florence, it's top winds were at a Category 2 storm with winds of 110 mph (175 km/h). Aside from Chris, Florence, and Gordon, none of the storms became hurricanes. A famous hurricane from 1994 would probably be Hurricane Gordon. Hurricane Gordon was a strange long lived November hurricane that killed at least 1,100 people in Haiti.

[[British Rail Class 100]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL locomotives

The British Rail Class 100 diesel multiple units were built by Gloucester Railway Carriage & Wagon Company Limited from 1956 to 1958, designed and built in collaboration with the Transport Sales Dept. of T.I. (Group Services) Ltd. 

[[British Rail Class 101]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL locomotives

The British Rail Class 101 diesel multiple units were built by Metro-Cammell at Washwood Heath in Birmingham from 1956 to 1959, following construction of a series of prototype units. This class proved to be the most successful and longest-lived of all BR's First Generation DMUs, with the final five units being withdrawn on 24 December 2003. The oldest set was, by then, just over 47 years old.

[[British Rail Class 103]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 103 diesel multiple units were built by Park Royal Vehicles with diesel engines by British United Traction (BUT).  Ordered in the first half of 1955, 20 of these sets were built by Park Royal at the Crossley Motors works in Stockport of the ACV Group. They consisted of a power car and a driving trailer. Standard BUT equipment was fitted, with 'A' type engines.

A two-car set with 16 first class and 100 second class seats weighed just under 60 long tons, representing 1,150 lb (520 kg) a seat and had 5 hp per ton of empty weight or 4.35 hp per ton when full.

[[British Rail Class 104]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 104 diesel multiple units were built by Birmingham Railway Carriage and Wagon Company from 1957 to 1959.

The first units ordered were for the London Midland Region, with the majority of the class for use in North West of England with sets also in Tyneside (being made redundant by the opening of the Tyne & Wear Metro in 1980). In the mid-1980s a few units reallocated to Scotland, with one unit being repainted in a unique maroon and white livery for services to Oban - it became known as the "Mexican Bean". Other vehicles spent time in London and the last vehicles could be found there in the early 1990s.

The class was gradually taken of service from the early 1980s. The final vehicles were withdrawn in 1995.

[[British Rail Class 105]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 105 diesel multiple units were built by Cravens Ltd. of Sheffield from 1956 to 1959. The class were built with a side profile identical to British Railways Mark 1 carriage stock, using the same doors and windows.  None were selected for refurbishment. The last passenger car was withdrawn from service in 1988.  

[[British Rail Class 107]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 107 diesel multiple units were built by the Derby Works of British Railways and were introduced in 1960. The class looked similar to the later Class 108 units, but were heavier - having been built out of steel.

[[British Rail Class 108]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 108 diesel multiple units were built by BR Derby from 1958 to 1961, with a final production quantity of 333 vehicles.

These units stayed in were used till the 1990s after which they were withdrawn from traffic.

[[British Rail Class 109]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 109 is a class of 2-car diesel multiple units built in 1957 by Wickham & Co.  Five two-car units were built featuring an unusual body design.

The units soon became non-standard and two were sold back to the manufacturer who exported them to Trinidad and Tobago.  Another unit was converted into departmental service, and survived in BR ownership until the early 1980s.

[[Yeh Dil Aap Ka Huwa]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 2002 movies, Urdu-language movies

Yeh Dil Aap Ka Huwa (یہ دِل آپ کا ہوا) is a 2002 Pakistani Urdu movie starring Sana, Moammar Rana and Saleem Sheikh among others. It was directed by Javed Sheikh and ran successfully in theaters across Pakistan. The movie's soundtrack composed by Amjad Bobby was a success prior to its release.

[[British Rail Class 110]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 110 DMUs were built by the Birmingham Railway Carriage and Wagon Company in conjunction with the Drewry Car Co. to operate services on the former Lancashire and Yorkshire main line, and spent their entire careers based around this same area. This earned them the name of the 'Calder Valley' sets.  They were an updated version of the Class 104, with a revised cab design and raised bodyside window frames.

[[British Rail Class 111]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 111 DMUs were based on Class 101/2s, but with different engines. The only external body difference was on the final batch of cars where a four character headcode box was fitted above the front cab windows, with the destination indicator on top of a reduced height centre window.

The first cars built, part of an order for 339 Met-Camm cars, were 4 power/trailer sets for the LMR Manchester area built in early 1957. One of these had supercharged 230 hp 6-cylinder engines. This was followed by ten 3-car sets comprising DMBS/TS/DMC for the NER at Bradford, then a further twenty 3-car sets.

[[British Rail Class 112]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 112 DMUs used the standard Cravens body used for Class 105s but had a single Rolls-Royce engine of 238 hp per car, and they were all formed into 'power twins'- two car sets with both vehicles powered.

There were two batches built, the first 50 vehicles (25 sets) had standard mechanical transmission via a gearbox and were allocated the Class 112. The second batch of 50 cars (25 sets) had hydraulic transmission, and became Class 113s.

The cars were built for services in the LMR Central Division and in the Liverpool - St Helens area, where the gradients in the Lancashire & Yorkshire area required more power. Both types also spent some time working from Cricklewood.

The gross weight of a set with all seats occupied was approximately 70 tons, giving 6.8 hp per ton. Empty, it was 8.1 hp/ton, which compared favourably with 5.7 hp/ton that the Cravens power/trailer had.

[[British Rail Class 114]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 114 diesel multiple units were built by BR Derby from 1956 to 1957. Forty-nine 2-car units were built, numbered 50001-49 for driving motors (later renumbered 53001-49) and 56001-49 for driving trailers (later renumbered 54001-49). The units were used on services in the West Midlands, Lincolnshire and Humberside.

[[1995 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1995 Atlantic hurricane season was the time from June 1 to November 30, 1995 when hurricanes officially formed in the Atlantic Ocean. Storms sometimes form before and after these dates but most storms form during the season. No storms formed after November 30 in the 1995 season.

The 1995 season was extremely active, largely due to favorable conditions including a La Niña and warm sea surface temperatures. Nineteen named storms formed during the season, making it the third most active on record behind the 2005 and 1933 seasons and tied with 1887 season. There were also eleven storms that reached hurricane strength, again the third most hurricanes in one season after the 1969 and 2005 seasons.

This season broke the record for the most Tropical Cyclones at a time in the Atlantic with five storm at a time from August 22 to September 1 – Humberto, Iris, Jerry, Karen, and Luis, were the names of the storms at the same time. thumb|200px|right|A satellite image of the Atlantic Ocean on August 24 including Humberto, Iris, Jerry, and two waves that would soon become Karen and Luis

[[Red giant]]

CATEGORIES: Red giants

A red giant is a  giant star that has the mass of about one-half to ten times the mass of our Sun. Red giants get their name because they appear to be colored red and they are very large. Many red giants could fit thousands and thousands of suns like ours inside of them. Aldebaran, Arcturus, Betelgeuse and Mira are red giants. 

Right now, our Sun is a main-sequence star, not a red giant. However, five billion years from now, scientists believe our sun will become a red giant. It will be about 200 times bigger in diameter than it is now. It will become so big it will swallow up Mercury, Venus and possibly the Earth.

[[Hypergiant]]

CATEGORIES: Hypergiants

A hypergiant (luminosity class 0) is a star with an enormous mass and luminosity, It shows  signs of a very high rate of mass loss.  The exact definition is not yet settled.

Hypergiants are the largest stars in the universe, usually larger than supergiants. The hypergiant with the largest known diameter is Stephenson 2-18, which is about 2,150 times wider than the Sun. 

Another large hypergiant is NML Cygni, about 1,650 times wider than the Sun. It is one of the extreme luminous supergiant stars. A pulsating red hypergiant named UY Scuti is probably larger, with a radius of about 1,700 times the sun.

Hypergiants are very hard to find and they have a short lifespan because of their size. While the Sun has a lifespan of around 10 billion years, hypergiants will only exist for a few million years.

[[Shiver (Coldplay song)]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay songs, 2000 songs

"Shiver" is a single released by rock band Coldplay. "Shiver" was released off the album Parachutes in March 2000. A re-release was released a year later in February 2001. 

[[Yellow (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay songs, 2000 songs

"Yellow" is a song by English alternative rock band Coldplay. The band wrote the song and co-produced it with British record producer Ken Nelson. It was for their first album Parachutes. The song's lyrics are a reference to band vocalist Chris Martin's unreturned love.

The song was released across the world in June 2000. It was the second single off the album following "Shiver". It was the lead single in the United States. The single reached number four in the UK Singles Chart. This gave the band their first top-five hit in the United Kingdom.

Helped by heavy rotation and usage in promotions, the song made the band very popular. Various recording artists worldwide have since made their own versions of "Yellow". It remains one of the band's most popular songs.

[[Don't Panic (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay songs, 2000 songs

"Don't Panic" is a single by British rock band Coldplay.

The single was recorded in 1996. Coldplay released the single off the hit studio album called Parachutes which was released on July 10, 2000.

[[In My Place]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay songs, 2002 songs, Grammy Award winning songs

"In My Place" was released August 2002. The single was released off the hit album A Rush of Blood to the Head" released by rock band Coldplay in 2002. "In My Place" was well received by critics. The song was praised for its music and the deep meaning of its words. "In My Place" won Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal at the 45th Grammy Awards. The music video was nominated for two MuchMusic Video Awards in 2003 in the categories of Best international video–group and People's Choice: Favorite international group. It begins with one crash of a cymbal. After that, there are two bars of 4/4 drumming, then a sad three-note guitar line, and Chris Martin's singing.

[[List of video games featuring Mario]]

CATEGORIES: Mario video games, Video game lists

Over the years, Mario has become a famous video game character. He stars in many video games and even has his own series of video games and its spinoff series, the Donkey Kong, Yoshi, and Wario series. The following course of video games Mario has appeared in over the years is listed below:

[[Târgovişte]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Romania, Municipalities of Romania

Târgovişte is a city in the Dâmboviţa County of Romania.  About 89,000 people lived in Târgovişte as of the year 2003.

[[Antonio Machado]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 births, 1939 deaths, Spanish writers

Antonio Cipriano José María y Francisco de Santa Ana Machado y Ruiz, known as Antonio Machado (July 26, 1875 – February 22, 1939), was a Spanish poet and one of the leading figures of the Spanish literary movement known as the Generation of '98.

[[Garcilaso de la Vega]]

CATEGORIES: 1501 births, 1536 deaths, Spanish writers, People from Toledo, Spain

Garcilaso de la Vega (Toledo, c. 1501– Le Muy, Nice, France, October 14, 1536), was a Spanish soldier and poet. The prototypical "Renaissance man", he was the most influential (though not the first or the only) poet to introduce Italian Renaissance verse forms, poetic techniques and themes to Spain. His exact birth date is unknown, but estimations by scholars put his year of birth between 1498 and 1503.

[[Nepenthes]]

CATEGORIES: Caryophyllales

The Nepenthes, often known as Tropical Pitcher Plants or Monkey Cups, are a genus of carnivorous plants in the  family of the Nepenthaceae consisting of about 120 species (this number is fast increasing, with one to two new species being described each year). Many hybrids exist, both natural and created by humans. These plants come from  South China, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines; westward to Madagascar and the Seychelles ; southward to Australia and New Caledonia ; and northward to India and Sri Lanka . Many are plants from hot humid lowland areas, but the majority are from high in the mountains where nights are cold.  Nepenthes are often categorized as being lowland or highland varieties, depending on how high they live above sea level.  Lowland varieties usually require high temperature and humidity levels.  Highland varieties usually require warm days but cold and humid nights. The name Nepenthes was first published in 1737 in Carolus Linnaeus's Hortus Cliffortianus.

Nepenthes traps contain a fluid of the plant's own production, which may be watery or syrupy and is used to drown prey. The trapping efficiency of this fluid remains high, even when significantly diluted by water, as inevitably happens in wet conditions. Many species of Nepenthes produce two different forms of pitchers. Near the base of the plant are the large lower traps, which usually sit on the ground, while the upper pitchers may be smaller, coloured differently, and have different shapes and features than the lower pitchers. 

The lower part of the trap contains glands which take nutrients from captured insects.

One of the earliest pictures of Nepenthes appears in Leonard Plukenet's Almagestum Botanicum of 1696. The plant, called Utricaria vegetabilis zeylanensium, is without doubt a N. distillatoria.

[[Kurohime (manga)]]

CATEGORIES: Manga

Kurohime is a manga series made by the mangaka Katakura Masanori. The manga began its run in 2002, monthly in Monthly Shōnen Jump. The manga talks about the story and the adventures of Kurohime and the others friends to fight the Gods of their lands and to resurrect the true love of her, the man who sacrificed his life for her, Zero.

Kurohime has 14 volumes (on 2008) and is ongoing.

[[British Rail Class 115]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

These 41 high density sets operated the outer-suburban services from Marylebone usually to destinations such as High Wycombe, Aylesbury and Banbury which are on the Chiltern Main Line and Great Central Main Line (now the London to Aylesbury Line). Sometimes, these sets used to operate 8-12 car long expresses to Nottingham Victoria in the final years of the GCML. Coincidentally, the 115 were under Table 115 in the British Rail timetable.

Based on the basic Derby high density design, the sets are similar to Class 127 but were internally superior as the class had larger windows, better furnishings, lighting and wall surfaces. 

Some sets were also built for the CLC line between Liverpool and Manchester. These were later transferred to Marylebone. They also worked from Tyseley in the later years.

The Marylebone sets, which were later transferred to Bletchley but remained on Chiltern Line duties, were declared surplus after the introduction of Class 165s, from 1991 onwards. While at Bletchley depot the class was also used on the Gospel Oak to Barking Line, units being formed as power twins.  They were in turn replaced on this line by class 117 power twins. 

The final Class 115 working out of Marylebone was in July 1992. The Tyseley sets survived a bit longer, until February 1994.

[[Pomaia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tuscany

Pomaia is a little village (it: frazione), near the city of (it: comune) Santa Luce, in the Province of Pisa, Tuscany, Italy. The village is a very important point for Buddhism in Italy. In Pomaia, one of biggest Tibetan monasteries, called the "Lama Zong Khapa Institute", can be seen.

[[Morellino di Scansano]]

CATEGORIES: Italian wines, Tuscany

Morellino di Scansano DOCG is an Italian red wine made in the hills of the village of Scansano (province of Grosseto), in the Maremma, which includes a part of the coast of southern Tuscany. Morellino is the local name for the Sangiovese grape varietal.

The wine, which gained the DOC status in 1978, and upgraded to DOCG status from the 2007 vintage, is made from of 85% Sangiovese (which is also the base of the tuscan wines: Chianti, Brunello di Montalcino and Vino Nobile di Montepulciano). The remaining 0–15% of any non aromatic black grape varieties included in a list made and periodically updated by the local authorities.

[[Vino Nobile di Montepulciano]]

CATEGORIES: Italian wines, Tuscany

Vino Nobile di Montepulciano (in English lit. Noble Wine of Montepulciano) is a red wine with Denominazione di Origine Controllata e Garantita status produced in the vineyards in the town of Montepulciano, Tuscany, Italy.  The wine is made for the main part from the Sangiovese grape varietal (minimum 70%), blended with Canaiolo Nero (10%–20%)  and small add of other local varieties such as Mammolo.  The wine is aged in oak barrels for 2 years; three years if it is a riserva. The wine should not be confused with Montepulciano d'Abruzzo, a red wine made from the Montepulciano grape in the Abruzzo region of east-central Italy.

[[Brunello di Montalcino]]

CATEGORIES: Italian wines

Brunello di Montalcino is a red Italian wine. It is made in the vineyards surrounding the town of Montalcino about 70 southwest of Florence, Tuscany, Italy. Brunello, roughly translated  as "nice dark one" in the local dialect, is the unofficial name of the clone of Sangiovese (also known as Sangiovese Grosso) grown in the Montalcino region. In 1980, the Brunello di Montalcino was awarded the first Denominazione di Origine Controllata e Garantita (DOCG) designation and today is one of the Italy's best-known and most expensive wines.

[[Borodin Quartet]]

CATEGORIES: String quartets

The Borodin Quartet is a string quartet that was founded in 1945 in what was then the Soviet Union. The four players have not always been the same people: there have been some changes to the group, but it is one of the world's longest lasting string quartets. In 2005 they celebrated their 60th anniversary. Until he retired in 2007 the cellist Valentin Berlinsky had almost always been the cellist of the quartet.

When they started they were known as the Moscow Philharmonic Quartet. In 1955 the quartet changed its name to Borodin Quartet, named after the composer Alexander Borodin who composed two famous string quartets.

They often got invitations to play in the West, but the Soviet communist government would not allow them to travel out of their country. The quartet had to accept the concerts that their government allowed them to do. They played at the funerals of the dictator Stalin and the composer Sergei Prokofiev which were on the same day (both men died on 5 March 1953. However, they were not paid anything for either event.

The quartet knew the composer Dmitri Shostakovich very well. They performed his quartets, and Shostakovich often listened to them practising and discussed with them the way he wanted them to be played. The quartet often played piano quintets with the pianist Sviatoslav Richter.

When they started in 1945 their cellist was Mstislav Rostropovich. Rudolf Barshai was their viola player. Very soon afterwards Rostropovich found he had too many other engagements, so he got Valentin Berlinsky to be their cellist. The four men who then formed the quartet signed an oath in their own blood that they would be faithful and stay together as a group. They stayed together for 20 years. Then Rostislav Dubinsky, the first violinist, defected to the West and the second violinist, Jaroslav Alexandrov, retired because of bad health. With two new players, the quartet spend two years practising together before they performed again in public.

When Communism collapsed and the Soviet Union broke up, the quartet still continued to be very famous. They travelled abroad a lot, performing in places such as London. 

They have made many recordings including all Shostakovich's string quartets and all Beethoven quartets.

[[Pienza]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tuscany, World Heritage Sites in Italy

Pienza, a town  (it: commune) in the province of Siena, in the Val d'Orcia in Tuscany (central Italy), between the towns of Montepulciano and Montalcino, is the "touchstone of Renaissance urbanism."

In 1996, UNESCO put the town his list as a World Heritage Site, and in 2004 the all valley, the Val d'Orcia, was put on the list of UNESCO's World Cultural Landscapes.

[[Interactive whiteboard]]

CATEGORIES: Display technology, Data input

An interactive whiteboard is a large, interactive screen that connects a computer and a projector. The projector projects the computer's desktop onto the screen of the interactive whiteboard. The user can control the computer by using a special pen, finger or another tool to touch the screen of the interactive whiteboard. Normally, interactive whiteboards are fixed on walls. However, there are some mobile interactive whiteboards. Interactive whiteboards are used in many different places such as in classrooms, in work groups and in training rooms for professional coaching. Interactive whiteboards are the modern version of the traditional whiteboards used in schools.

[[Sue (dinosaur)]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Cretaceous dinosaurs, South Dakota

"Sue" is the nickname given to FMNH PR 2081, one of the largest, most complete and best preserved Tyrannosaurus rex fossil ever found. 

Sue was discovered in the summer of 1990 by Sue Hendrickson, a paleontologist, and was named after her. She contacted the Black Hills Institute, whose staff retrieved and prepared the bones.

First, ownership disputes were settled in court. There was a long dispute between the owners of the land, the Sioux tribe, the  United States Department of the Interior, and the Black Hills Institute, whose staff had done the work.

The fossil was then  auctioned in October 1997 for US$8.36 million, the highest amount ever paid for a dinosaur fossil.

After preparation, the skeleton became a permanent feature at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, Illinois. The money had been raised by public subscription.

[[DOCG]]

CATEGORIES: Italian food

 DOCG is the short version of Denominazione di Origine Controllata e Garantita, a warranty mark used in Italy, about the wines, for to help who buy wines against fake wines or frauds. This warranty mark shows the exact point where the wine was made. A wine before to be able to use the DOCG mark must pass many tests and have some qualities. Often these qualities are for example the little place where we can find the kind of wine, for example just a big hills of just a region in Italy.

[[Tuscan food]]

CATEGORIES: Tuscany, Italian food

This is a list of food from the area of Tuscany, Italy.

[[Karpenisi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Karpenisi is a mountainous Greek city. It is a small city in Eyritania district. Karpenisi is the capital of Eyritania prefecture. Eyritania prefecture has the most mountains of any other prefecture of Greece. There are mountains everywhere in the Eyritania prefecture. The highest point of Karpenisi is at the top of the Tymphristos Mountain, which is 2,315 meters high. Around 7,300 people live in Karpenisi, says the census taken in 2001. Karpenisi is built at an altitude of 960 meters.  It sits on the slopes of the Tymphristos mountain. Lamia is east of Karpenisi. Karpenisi is smaller town than Lamia. Lamia also serves the district of Karpenisi. 

[[Empoli]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tuscany

Empoli is a town in Tuscany, Italy, about 30 km southwest of Florence. It is 30 m above sea-level, to the south of the Arno. The plain  of the town has been usable for agriculture since Roman times. Empoli is on the main railway line from Florence to Pisa and is well joined with the city of Siena. 

Empoli has a long tradition as an agricultural centre. It has given its name to a local kind of artichoke.

[[Igoumenitsa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Greece

Igoumenitsa is a small Greek city. It has a population of about 9,644 people. It is found in the north-western part of Greece in the Ipiros periphery. It is a city built along the coast of the Ionian Sea. It has a big port which links Igoumenitsa with the Italian cities of Bari, Ancona and Brintezi. It is the second important port of Greece along the Ionian Sea, after the port in the city of Patras.

[[Larderello]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Italy, Settlements in Tuscany

Larderello is a frazione of the comune of Pomarance, in Tuscany in central Italy. Larderello is famous for its geothermal productivity.

[[Minneapolis Millers]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey teams in the United States

The Minneapolis Millers were an ice hockey team that played in the American Hockey Association. A famous player who played for the Millers was Tiny Thompson.

[[American Hockey Association]]

There were two different American Hockey Associations:

[[American Hockey Association (1926–1942)]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct ice hockey leagues, Ice hockey leagues in Canada, Ice hockey leagues in the United States, 1926 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in Canada, 1942 disestablishments, 1940s disestablishments in the United States, 20th century disestablishments in Canada

The American Hockey Association was a small professional ice hockey league. It was active between 1926 and 1942.

[[Bellevue, Alberta]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in Alberta

Bellevue is a small hamlet near the Crowsnest Pass of the Rocky Mountains found in southern Alberta, Canada.  About 350 people live in Bellevue.  It is currently part of the Municipality of Crowsnest Pass, where about 6,500 people live.

[[College of William & Mary]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Virginia, 1693 establishments in North America, 1690s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 17th-century establishments in Virginia, Colonial Athletic Association

The College of William & Mary in Virginia (also known as The College of William & Mary, The College, William & Mary, or W&M) is a public university in Williamsburg, Virginia, United States. It was founded in 1693 by a Royal Charter issued by King William III and Queen Mary II. It is the second-oldest institution of higher education in the United States.

William & Mary educated U.S. Presidents Thomas Jefferson, James Monroe, and John Tyler as well as other key figures important to the development of the nation, including U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Marshall, Speaker of the House Henry Clay and 16 signers of the Declaration of Independence. In 2008, the college had 5,850 undergraduate students and 2,042 graduate and professional students in and gave 1,454 bachelors, 440 masters, and 209 professional degrees.

[[Tramway track]]

CATEGORIES: Rail infrastructure, Tram technology

Tramway tracks are used on tramways or light railways. Grooved rails (or girder rails) are normally used to let the trams run on streets. This is called "street-running". Like normal rail tracks, tram tracks consist of two parallel steel rails.

Tram rails can be placed in several surfaces. Standard rails can be put on sleepers like railway tracks, or with grooved rails on concrete sleepers into street surfaces (pavement) for street running.  Another environmentally-friendly or ecologically-friendly alternative is to lay tracks into grass turf surfaces. This is known as grassed track (or track in a lawn). It was first used in Liverpool in 1924.

[[Light rail]]

CATEGORIES: Light rail

Light rail or light rail transit (LRT) is a form of urban rail public transportation. Generally it can carry less people and has a lower speed than heavy rail/metro systems, but it can carry more people and has a higher speed than street-running tram systems. The term is normally used to refer to rail systems with rapid transit-style features that usually use electric rail cars operating mostly in private rights-of-way separated from other traffic but sometimes, if necessary, mixed with other traffic in city streets. Modern light rail technology is highly flexible in how it can be used, and whether any given system is considered a true rapid transit system or not depends on its implementation.

[[London County Council Tramways]]

CATEGORIES: Trams in London, Tram transport in the United Kingdom

The London County Council Tramways was a large network of public street tramways. They were formed in 1899. They were run by the council in the County of London, UK. In 1933 they were taken over by the London Passenger Transport Board.

[[PCC streetcar]]

CATEGORIES: Tram technology

The PCC (Presidents' Conference Committee) streetcar (tram) design was first built in the United States in the 1930s. The design was very successful in America. After World War II it was allowed to be used in other countries in the world. The PCC car has proved to be a long lasting icon of streetcar design, and PCC cars are still in service in various places around the world.

[[Heritage Lottery Fund]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in the United Kingdom

The Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) is a fund established in the United Kingdom under the National Lottery etc. Act 1993.  The Fund opened for applications in 1994. It uses money raised through the National Lottery to transform and sustain the UK’s heritage. From museums, parks and historic places to archaeology, the natural environment and cultural traditions, HLF provides grants to support all aspects of the UK's diverse heritage.

By 2008, HLF had awarded a total of £4 billion to more than 26,000 projects across the UK.

[[Douglas, Isle of Man]]

CATEGORIES: Isle of Man

Douglas (Doolish) is the capital and largest town of the Isle of Man

[[Gateshead]]

CATEGORIES: Gateshead

Gateshead is a town in Tyne and Wear, England. It lies on the southern bank of the River Tyne, opposite Newcastle upon Tyne. Gateshead town centre and Newcastle city centre are very close to one another, and together they form the urban core of Tyneside. Gateshead is the main settlement in the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead.

[[Ambergate]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Derbyshire

Ambergate is a village in Derbyshire, England, where the River Amber joins the River Derwent.

[[Rotherham]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Yorkshire

Rotherham is a town in South Yorkshire, England. It lies on the River Don, close to its confluence with the  River Rother, between Sheffield and Doncaster. Its football club, Rotherham United F.C., was founded in 1870.

[[Grimsby]]

CATEGORIES: 9th century establishments in Europe, Towns in Lincolnshire, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Port cities and towns of England

Grimsby (or Great Grimsby) is a seaport on the Humber Estuary in Lincolnshire, England.

[[Halle, Saxony-Anhalt]]

CATEGORIES: Halle, Saxony-Anhalt, Urban districts of Saxony-Anhalt

Halle (also called Halle an der Saale) is the largest town in the German state of Saxony-Anhalt. It lies in the southern part of the state, on the river Saale. It has about 234,000 inhabitants (2006). It is famous all over the world because Georg Friedrich Handel was born there.

[[Trams in London]]

CATEGORIES: Trams in London

There have been two separate generations of trams in London, from 1860 to 1952 and from 2000. Between 1952 and 2000 no trams ran in London. 

The decision to abolish the first generation of trams was taken in a way which allowed various interested groups to have a say, but with little or no consultation to or with the general population. The debate was largely about trams on London, and made in a way which reflected the time when the British Labour Party controlled both London and the UK.

The first trams in London were authorised by an Act of Parliament in 1870. They were, of course, horse-drawn at that time, although steam power was also possible.

[[Clay Cross]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Derbyshire

Clay Cross is a former mining town in north east Derbyshire, England. It is six miles south of Chesterfield. It is the former Roman road Ryknield Street. Near by settlements are North Wingfield, Tupton, Pilsley, Ashover, and Tibshelf.

[[Talyllyn Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in Wales, 1866 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1860s establishments in Wales

The Talyllyn Railway (Rheilffordd Talyllyn) is a narrow-gauge preserved railway in Wales. It runs for 7.25 from Tywyna on the Mid-Wales coast to Nant Gwernol near the village of Abergynolwyn. The line was opened in 1866 to carry slate from the quarries at Bryn Eglwys to Tywyn. It was the first narrow gauge railway in Britain authorised by Act of Parliament to carry passengers using steam haulage. Despite severe under-investment, the line remained open, and in 1951 it became the first railway in the world to be preserved as a heritage railway by volunteers. 

Since preservation, the railway has operated as a tourist attraction. It has increased the amount of rolling stock it has. It has done this by buying and building new locomotives and carriages. In 1976, an extension was opened along the former mineral line from Abergynolwyn to the new station at Nant Gwernol. In 2001, the preservation society celebrated its 50th anniversary. In 2005 a major rebuilding and extension of Tywyn Wharf station took place. This included a much-expanded facility for the Narrow Gauge Railway Museum.

The fictional Skarloey Railway was based on the Talyllyn Railway. This fictional railway formed part of the Railway Series of children's books by The Rev. W. Awdry. The preservation of the line inspired the Ealing Comedy film The Titfield Thunderbolt.

[[Hill of Howth Tramway]]

CATEGORIES: County Dublin, Light rail

The Hill of Howth Tramway, or just Howth Tram, operated from June 1901 to June 1959 and served Howth Head, near Dublin, Ireland.  The service was run by the Great Northern Railway (Ireland) (GNR(I)), which viewed it as a way to bring more customers to its railway stations at Sutton and Howth.

[[Trolley pole]]

CATEGORIES: Rail technologies, Tram technology

thumb|right|Trolley Wheel on TCRT 1300A trolley pole is a tapered cylindrical pole of wood or metal, used to transfer electricity from a "live" overhead wire to the control and propulsion equipment of a tram or trolley bus. The use of overhead wire in a railway electrification system is said to be the 1880 invention of Frank J. Sprague.

[[Bow collector]]

CATEGORIES: Rail technologies, Tram technology

A bow collector is one of the three main devices used on tramcars to transfer electric current from the overhead lines above to the tram below. While once very common in continental Europe, it has now been largely replaced by the pantograph.

[[Pantograph (rail)]]

CATEGORIES: Rail technologies, Tram technology

A pantograph is a device that collects electric current from overhead lines for electric trains or trams. The term stems from the resemblance to pantograph devices for copying writing and drawings.

[[Assist (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey words

In ice hockey, an assist is when up to two players of the scoring team shoots, passes or sends the puck towards the scoring teammate, or touched it in any other way which made the goal.  This usually means that they "assisted" in the goal. At most, there can only be 2 assists for each goal.

[[Water Stratford]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Buckinghamshire, Civil parishes in Buckinghamshire

Water Stratford is a village and civil parish in the Aylesbury Vale district in Buckinghamshire, England.  

[[List of settlements in Cambridgeshire]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of settlements in England, Settlements in Cambridgeshire

The following is a list of cities, towns and villages in the county of Cambridgeshire, England, by letter:  

compactTOC 

[[List of settlements in Northern Ireland by county]]

CATEGORIES: Lists about Northern Ireland, Lists of settlements in Europe, Settlements in Northern Ireland

The following is a list of places in Northern Ireland, by county:

[[List of towns and villages in Northern Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Northern Ireland, Lists about Northern Ireland, Lists of settlements in Europe

This is an alphabetical list of towns and villages in Northern Ireland. The towns of Armagh, Lisburn and Newry are also classed as cities (see city status in the United Kingdom). 

The Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA) uses these definitions:

Towns are listed in bold.

[[List of towns in Northern Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Northern Ireland, Lists of settlements in Europe, Lists about Northern Ireland

The following is a list of towns in Northern Ireland, by letter:

[[Burnt Hill]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Berkshire, Hamlets in England

Burnt Hill is a hamlet in Berkshire, England.  It can be found in the civil parish of Yattendon.

[[Bar Hill]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cambridgeshire, South Cambridgeshire, Civil parishes in Cambridgeshire

Bar Hill is a village that can be found about 4 miles (7 km) northwest of Cambridge, in South Cambridgeshire, Cambridgeshire, England. In 2001 there were 4,233 people living in Bar Hill.

[[Yielden]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Bedfordshire

Yielden is a village in Bedfordshire. It is near the borders with Northamptonshire and Cambridgeshire.

[[Mislea, Prahova]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Prahova County

Mislea is a commune of Prahova County in Romania.

[[Dartmouth College]]

CATEGORIES: Ivy League, Colleges and universities in New Hampshire, 1769 establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in New Hampshire

Dartmouth College (ˈdɑrtməθ) is a private, coeducational university in Hanover, New Hampshire. Incorporated as "Trustees of Dartmouth College,"

it is a member of the Ivy League and one of the nine Colonial Colleges founded before the American Revolution. In addition to its undergraduate liberal arts program, Dartmouth has medical, engineering, and business schools, as well as 19 graduate programs in the arts and sciences. With a total enrollment of 5,848, Dartmouth is the smallest school in the Ivy League.

The college was established in 1769 by Congregational minister Eleazar Wheelock who wanted to use the college to Christianize the Native Americans. In 2004, Booz Allen Hamilton selected Dartmouth College as a model of institutional endurance "whose record of endurance has had implications and benefits for all American organizations, both academic and commercial," citing Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward and Dartmouth's successful self-reinvention in the late 1800s.  Dartmouth alumni, from Daniel Webster to the many donors in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, have been famously involved in their college.

Dartmouth is on a rural 269-acre (1.1 km²) campus in the Upper Valley region of New Hampshire. Given the College's isolated location, participation in athletics and the school's Greek system is high. Dartmouth's 34 varsity sports teams compete in the Ivy League conference of the NCAA Division I. Students are also well known for preserving a variety of strong campus traditions.

In 2010 Dartmouth College joined the Matariki Network of Universities (MNU) together with University of Tübingen (Germany), Durham University (UK), Queen’s University (Canada), University of Otago (New Zealand), University of Western Australia (Australia) and Uppsala University (Sweden).

[[Oldham Athletic A.F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Oldham, Greater Manchester, 1895 establishments in England

Oldham Athletic Football Club is a football that plays in Football League One. The club plays its games at Boundary Park in Oldham, England.

The club has never won any major trophies through their history, though have made several appearances in the late rounds of the FA Cup and Football League Cup.

[[Bagpuss]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 television series debuts, 1974 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1970s British television series, Animated television series, BBC Television programmes, British children's television series, Fictional cats, 1974 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1974 television series endings, English-language television programs

Bagpuss is a popular  children's television series shown on BBC television.  It was shown in 1974. Although only 13 episodes were made, it was so popular that it was repeated regularly until 1987.  The series was made by Peter Firmin and Oliver Postgate through their company Smallfilms.

The character Bagpuss was a toy cat.  Bagpuss was described in each programme as "an old, saggy cloth cat, baggy, and a bit loose at the seams".

Each programme began in the same way.  It started by looking through old sepia photographs as these words were spoken:

There was a shop called “Bagpuss & Co”.   The cat sat in the shop window.  The owner of the shop was a little girl named Emily.  The shop did not sell anything.  Instead, Emily would find things that were broken and lost.  She fixed them and put them in the shop window. Emily hoping that the owners of the things would come and get them.  She would leave the fixed thing in front of her favourite toy: the stuffed cat Bagpuss.  Each programme began with these words:

When Emily had left, Bagpuss would wake up. The programme changed from sepia to colour film, and the toys in the shop would come to life.  There was Gabriel the toad, a rag doll called Madeleine, and a wooden woodpecker which was a bookend (something to stop a row of books falling over) called Professor Yaffle.  Professor Yaffle spoke like a clever professor.  He had a German accent and wore a pince-nez.  He would look at the object and tell the audience what it was used for.  There were also some mice.  They lived in the “mouse organ” (a pun on the word mouthorgan).  The mouse organ played music and the mice squeaked in high voices.  All the voices except those of Madeleine and Gabriel were done by  Oliver Postgate who also wrote the stories.

At the end of the programme, Bagpuss would yawn again and fall asleep. The colour changed back to sepia and the toys became toys again as these words were spoken:

[[Oliver Postgate]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Middlesex, Animators, British autobiographers, British children's writers, English television directors, English television producers, English television writers, English voice actors, Writers from Middlesex, 1925 births, 2008 deaths, Puppeteers

Oliver Richard Postgate (12 April 1925 – 8 December 2008) was an English animator, puppeteer and writer.

He made several series of children’s programmes for British television.  They all became very popular.  They include  Pingwings, Pogles' Wood, Noggin the Nog, Ivor the Engine, Clangers and Bagpuss. They were all made by Smallfilms, the company he set up with Peter Firmin.   They were shown on the BBC between the 1950s and the 1980s, and on ITV from 1959 to the present day. In a 1999 poll, Bagpuss was voted the most popular children's television programme of all time.

[[Gateshead Garden Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals in the United Kingdom, Gateshead, 1990 in Europe, 1990s in England

The Gateshead Garden Festival was the fourth of the United Kingdom's five National Garden Festivals.  It was held between May and October 1990, in Gateshead, Tyne and Wear. The festival took place for 157 days. Over three million people went to the festival.

[[Glasgow Garden Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening, Glasgow, 1988 in the United Kingdom, 1980s in Scotland

The Glasgow Garden Festival was the third of the United Kingdom's five National Garden Festivals. It was the only one to take place in Scotland. It was held in Glasgow between April and September 1988.

[[Animator]]

CATEGORIES: Animators

An animator is an artist who makes drawings for movies. The animator makes many drawings which are called "frames". These are played very quickly, one after another, to create animation. It makes it look as if the pictures are moving. 

Animators can work in many areas including movies, television, video games, and the internet. There are many ways of making animations. Animators usually work with other people to form a team. These may be other animators, but can also include layout artists (who design the backgrounds, lighting, and camera angles), storyboard artists (who draw panels of the action from the script), background artists (who paint the "scenery"), voice actors who speak the words, and musicians who make the music.

[[British Rail Class 116]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 116 diesel multiple units were built by BR Derby from 1957 to 1961.

[[British Rail Class 117]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 117 diesel multiple units were built by Pressed Steel from 1959 to 1960.

[[Ricky Sbragia]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Scottish footballers, Scottish football managers

Richard 'Ricky' Spragia (born May 26, 1956) is a former Scottish footballer who currently manages Sunderland. He was appointed in late December 2008 after the previous manager Roy Keane walked out after a run of bad results which had left Sunderland towards the foot of the table. In his first four games as caretaker manager he managed two wins and a draw and this was enough to get him the unanimous vote of the board and was appointed with a permanent contract on December 27, 2008.

[[Flag of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Austria, National flags

The official Flag of Austria is the flag of the European country, Austria. It has three horizontal stripes, two red ones and a white one.

[[British Rail Class 118]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 118 diesel multiple units were built by the Birmingham Railway Carriage & Wagon Company (BRCW) and introduced from 1960.

[[British Rail Class 119]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 119 DMUs were used on the Western Region and on services in the Midlands that used units that were based at Tyseley Depot. Soon after they were introduced, many of the DMUs were moved to Cardiff. This was so that they could serve the intermediate stations on outer suburban services from London Paddington to Oxford. These were as 7-car sets, with the addition of Hawksworth composites adapted to run as DMU trailers.

[[Donna Noble (Doctor Who)]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

Donna  Noble is a character in the British television series Doctor Who. She is played by Catherine Tate. She is a secretary from Chiswick, London. She is a companion of the Tenth Doctor. She appears in one scene at the end of the last episode of the 2006 series, "Doomsday" (named in the credits only as "The Bride"), and in the second Christmas special, "The Runaway Bride". The character returned as The Doctor's  full-time companion for the whole of the fourth series in 2008.

[[British Rail Class 120]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 120 was a cross-country DMU. It was made up of three units. The first unit was built in 1958 at the British Rail Swindon Works.

[[British Rail Class 121]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

Sixteen Class 121 single-car driving motor vehicles were built from 1960, numbered 55020-55035. These were supplemented by ten trailer vehicles, numbered 56280-289 (later renumbered 54280-289).  They had a top speed of 70 mph, with slam-doors, and vacuum brakes.  The driving motor vehicles were nicknamed "Bubble Cars" by some enthusiasts.

[[British Rail Class 122]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 122 diesel multiple units were built by Gloucester RC&W in 1958.  Twenty single-car driving motor vehicles, called "Bubble Cars", were built, numbered 55000-55019. These were supplemented by ten trailer vehicles, numbered 56290-299 (later renumbered 54290-299).

[[British Rail Class 123]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 123 was a design of Diesel Multiple Unit built for British Rail in 1963. They were built by British Rail at Swindon Works, and designed like all Swindon units as inter-city sets. Ten of the four-car sets were built and introduced in 1963. The units bear a visible similarity to the British Rail Class 309, however there is no 'relation' here as the two types were built by different manufacturers for different markets.

[[British Rail Class 124]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 124 was a class of initially six-car Diesel Multiple Units used and built specifically for the trans-pennine route. They were progressively shortened during their lifetime, finally finishing as three-car sets. They were all withdrawn by the late 1980s. There was a movement to preserve a set of this class, however it was unsuccessful and eventually all were lost.

[[British Rail Class 125]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 125 was a design of three car Diesel Multiple Unit built for British Rail in 1958. They were high-density units, externally very similar to the Class 116. They were built specifically for the Lea Valley Line, were all withdrawn in 1977, and none survive to this day. Like many first-generation DMU classes, they never carried their 125xxx TOPS set numbers.

[[British Rail Class 126]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The introduction of what became the Class 126 diesel multiple units originated in a British Transport Commission report of 1952 that suggested the trial use of diesel railcars. BR's Swindon Works were chosen to design and build express units for the ex-North British Railway Edinburgh Waverley to Glasgow Queen Street route. Swindon built a second batch in 1959/60 for use on services from Glasgow to Ayrshire.

[[British Rail Class 127]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 127 diesel multiple units were built by BR Derby in 1959. Thirty 4-car units were built, formed of two outer driving motor vehicles, sandwiching two intermediate trailers. The technical description of such as 4-car unit was DMBS + TSL + TS + DMBS.

[[British Rail Class 128]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

British Rail Class 128 was a class of diesel multiple unit, built for British Rail. Introduced in 1959, ten of the class were built by British United Traction, each with two 230 hp Leyland engines. The class was built specifically for parcels, and did not feature any passenger accommodation; fitted out with parcel racks and bike storages at each end. The last members of the class were withdrawn in 1991, and none were preserved.

[[British Rail Class 129]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 129 was a class of single-car Diesel Multiple Unit built in 1955 for British Rail. Only three were built by Cravens and were introduced in 1958. The class was built for parcels traffic like the Class 128. One unit (55997) survived into departmental service being named 'Hydra'. The driving ends of a Class 129 car bore a visible similarity to that of the British Rail Class 105.

[[The Master (Doctor Who)]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

The Master is a  character in the British science fiction television series Doctor Who. He is an evil Time Lord and is one of the biggest enemies of the Doctor.

When the Master first appeared in 1971, he was played by Roger Delgado. Delgado continued in the role until his death in 1973. Afterwards, Peter Pratt and Geoffrey Beevers played a decayed version of the Time Lord, until Anthony Ainley assumed the part in 1981. He remained until Doctor Who's cancellation in 1989. In 1996, the Master was played by Eric Roberts in the TV movie. In the revived series, Derek Jacobi provided the character's re-introduction before handing over to John Simm, who portrayed the Master in the end of the 2007 series. Michelle Gomez took over the role in 2014.

[[Dartmouth University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in New Hampshire, 1817 establishments in the United States, 1819 disestablishments, 19th-century establishments in New Hampshire, Disestablishments in New Hampshire, 1810s disestablishments in the United States

Dartmouth University was a university in New Hampshire which existed from 1817 to 1819. It was the result of an attempt by the state legislature to change Dartmouth College, a private college, into a public university but it did not happen.

[[Alex Kapranos]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1972 births, English guitarists, English rock musicians, English singers, Musicians from Gloucestershire, Musicians from Glasgow

Alexander Paul Kapranos Huntley (born 20 March 1972), commonly known as Alex Kapranos, is an English musician. He is the lead singer of Scottish band Franz Ferdinand. Kapranos was born in Almondsbury, Gloucestershire to an English mother and Greek father.

[[Death from Above 1979]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian punk bands, Musical entertainers from Toronto, Musical groups established in 2001, 2001 establishments in Canada, Musical groups disestablished in 2006, 2000s disestablishments in Canada, Musical groups established in 2011, 2011 establishments in Canada

Death from Above 1979 is a Toronto-based Canadian band with two members. The members were Jesse F. Keeler on bass guitar, synths and backing vocals, and Sebastien Grainger on vocals and drums.

[[Valentin Berlinsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2008 deaths, Cellists, Russian musicians

Valentin Berlinsky (born Irkutsk, 19 January, 1925; died 15 December, 2008) was a Russian cellist. He played with the world-famous Borodin Quartet from 1945 when it was founded, and was a member until he retired in 2007.

[[Steve Lamacq]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, British radio personalities, People from Basingstoke, People from Essex

Steve Lamacq (born 16 October 1965) is a disc jockey for BBC radio stations.  He is known by his nicknames Lammo or "The Cat".  He was born in Basingstoke, Hampshire and grew up in Essex.

[[Internship]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

Intern is the job title given to people who work in an organization that has an internship program. It is similar to an apprenticeship but is the term more commonly used if the work takes place in office environments. The work in an internship is expected to be part of the desired learning experience for the intern. The specific requirements for being an intern vary widely.

Internship positions are posted online similarly to job postings but focus instead on engaging students in real-world projects before they have completed their studies. Internships are usually temporary positions, often lasting between one school term and one year. Interns are sometimes given longer-term job opportunities.

[[The Master]]

The Master can refer to:

[[Symphonie Fantastique (Berlioz)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Hector Berlioz, Symphonies

The Symphonie fantastique is a symphony written by the French composer Hector Berlioz. It is one of the most famous Romantic works for orchestra. The official title of the piece is Episode de la Vie d’un Artiste (An Episode in the Life of the Artist), but it is always called by its subtitle Symphonie Fantastique which means Fantasy Symphony. The “Fantasy” refers to the story that is described by them music. (Fantasy Symphony is a better translation than Fantastic Symphony because fantastique is not like the modern meaning of the English word fantastic).

The symphony lasts about 45 minutes and is divided into 5 movements. Berlioz himself wrote down the story that the music describes, just as Beethoven had done with his Sixth Symphony. Berlioz’s work is about a young artist. In the music the young artist is represented by a tune. This tune is often heard during the symphony. That is why it is called an “idée fixe”, which means a “fixed idea”, i.e. an idea that keeps coming again and again. An idée fixe is what Wagner would have called a leitmotif (a tune which is always used to describe a particular person or thing in a piece of music). The first performance took place at the Paris Conservatoire in December 1830. Berlioz made several changes to the music between 1831 and 1845.

[[Christ's Hospital]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, 1552 establishments, 1550s establishments in England

Christ's Hospital is a boarding school in Sussex.  The school was started in 1552.  King Edward VI started it. The headmaster is John Franklin BA MEd Admin.  It has 831 students.  The school is very big.

[[Gang of Four (band)]]

CATEGORIES: English punk bands, New wave bands

[[Bloc Québécois]]

CATEGORIES: Nationalist organizations in North America, Social democratic parties, Political parties in Canada, Quebec, 1991 establishments in Canada

The Bloc Québécois (BQ) is a federal political party based in Canada that mainly believes and advocates Quebec should secede from Canada, also known as Quebec sovereignty. The Bloc was created by Members of Parliament (MPs) from the national Progressive Conservative Party and the Liberal Party. They were angry that the Meech Lake Accord could not pass. The party is considered to be center-left. The leader of the party is currently Yves-François Blanchet.

[[Angular Recording Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Independent record labels, 2003 establishments in England

Angular Recording Corporation is an independent record label that was first based in New Cross, South East London.  It was started in June 2003 by two ex-Goldsmiths College students, Joe Daniel and Joe Margetts.

[[The Weather Makers]]

CATEGORIES: Non-fiction books, Climate change

The Weather Makers: The History and Future Impact of Climate Change (2005) is a book by Tim Flannery.

The book includes 36 short essays predicting the consequences of global warming.  The book reviews the evidence about historical climate change and attempts to put our era into context.  The book asserts that if atmospheric carbon dioxide levels continue to increase at current rates, the resulting climate change will cause mass species extinctions.

The book received much critical acclaim, and has won a major literary prize.

[[Mumia]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Mumia (also pulvis mumiae, Mumia vera aegyptiaca) was a powder made from ground mummies. It was used as a drug, for good health, and as a coloring agent (a medium to dark brown) until the 1920s. Eating ground mumified corpses is a form of cannibalism.

The powder was said to work against almost any disease. To mummify a corpse, tar was used. It was said this tar had magical powers. It was also said to be an aphrodisiac. 

[[Nuclear or Not?]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 books, Non-fiction books, Nuclear energy

Nuclear or Not? Does Nuclear Power Have a Place in a Sustainable Energy Future? is a 2007 book edited by Professor David Elliott.  The book offers various views on nuclear power. Authors include:

Professor Elliott calls for continued debate on the nuclear power issue.  He is Professor of Technology Policy at the Open University, and has developed courses on technological innovation, focusing in particular on renewable energy technology.

[[Nuclear Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Non-fiction books, Nuclear physics, 2007 books

Nuclear Nebraska: The Remarkable Story of the Little County That Couldn’t Be Bought (0814474306) is a 2007 book by Susan Cragin which follows the controversy about a proposed low level nuclear waste dump which was planned for Boyd County, Nebraska. 

In 1989, two multinational corporations and several government agencies put forward a proposal for the waste dump and offered payment of $3 million a year for 40 years. However, the residents of the largely uneducated Boyd County farming community chose to resist the offer and controversy followed for almost two decades. During this time, the community was transformed "from a small group of isolated farmers to a defiant band of environmentalists".  The opposition of the community eventually succeeded, and the license to build the dump was denied.

[[Hiroshima (book)]]

CATEGORIES: History books, Nuclear weapons, Hiroshima

Hiroshima (0-679-72103-7) is a magazine article written by Pulitzer Prize winner John Hersey that appeared in The New Yorker in August 1946, one year after the United States dropped an atomic bomb on the city of Hiroshima, Japan. The article was soon made into a book. It described how the bombing affected the lives of six individuals:

Each account is followed by a brief statement describing how close each person was to the center of the blast.

[[Railways in Melbourne]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport in Melbourne

Melbourne has a long history of railway building. The city's first railway opened in 1854, when in 1834 the city itself did not exist. The network then grew as lines were built throughout the suburbs, reaching a peak by the 1900s. Electrification of the system was carried out from 1919, with electric multiple unit operation starting at the same time.

[[Non-Nuclear Futures]]

CATEGORIES: Non-fiction books, Nuclear energy, 1975 books

Non-Nuclear Futures: The Case for an Ethical Energy Strategy is a 1975 book by Amory B. Lovins and John H. Price. The book says that the nuclear power debate is not about technical disputes but relates to different personal views (personal values).  The personal values that make a high-energy society work are all too apparent, and the values associated with an alternate view relate to thrift, simplicity, diversity, neighbourliness, craftsmanship, and humility.

Lovins and Price say that these two different sets of personal values lead to two very different policy paths relating to future energy supplies.  The first is high-energy nuclear, centralized, electric; the second is lower energy, non-nuclear, decentralized, less electrified, softer technology.

[[The Clean Tech Revolution]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Technology, Non-fiction books, 2007 books, Green politics

The Clean Tech Revolution: The Next Big Growth and Investment Opportunity, is a 2007 book by Ron Pernick and Clint Wilder.  They say that using clean technologies is a profitable enterprise that is moving steadily into mainstream business. Clean technologies are seen to be important for economic growth.

Pernick and Wilder highlight eight major clean technology areas: solar power, wind power, biofuels, green buildings, personal transportation, the smart grid, mobile applications (such as portable fuel cells), and water filtration. Very large corporations such as GE, Toyota and Sharp, and investment firms such as Goldman Sachs are spending billions of dollars on clean technology.

[[The State of the World]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, Non-fiction books, Environment

The State of the World is a book published annually since 1984 by the Worldwatch Institute. The series attempts to identify the Earth’s most significant environmental challenges. The 1998 through 2003 editions are available as a free (PDF) download from the Worldwatch website https://web.archive.org/web/20080719201103/http://www.worldwatch.org/pubs/sow.

[[Electrical substation]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Electricity distribution

An electrical substation is a subsidiary station of an electricity generation, transmission and distribution system where voltage is transformed from high to low or the reverse using transformers. Electric power may flow through several substations between generating plant and consumer, and may be changed in voltage in several steps.

[[Winning the Oil Endgame]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Non-fiction books

Winning the Oil Endgame is a 2005 book by Amory B. Lovins,  published by the Rocky Mountain Institute.  It talks about four ways to reduce oil (petroleum) dependence in the United States:

[[Betrayers of the Truth]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 books, Non-fiction books, Science books

Betrayers of the Truth: Fraud and Deceit in the Halls of Science is a book written in 1983 by William Broad and Nicholas Wade. The book is asks questions about of some beliefs about what science is and the method used by scientists to do science.  The authors shows examples that have to do with how scientific research is done.  It talks about making up results and making up of whole experiments.

[[Amory Lovins]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Environment, American physicists, Scientists from Washington, D.C., 1947 births, Living people

Amory Bloch Lovins is Chairman and Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute.  For four decades he has worked in energy policy and related areas.

Lovins worked professionally as an environmentalist in the 1970s and since then as an analyst of a "soft energy path" for the United States and other nations. He has promoted energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources, and the generation of energy at or near the site where the energy is actually used.   Lovins has also promoted a "negawatt revolution" arguing that utility customers do not want kilowatt-hours of electricity; they want energy services.  In the 1990s, his work with Rocky Mountain Institute included the design of an ultra-efficient automobile, the Hypercar. 

Lovins has received ten honorary doctorates and won many awards. He has provided expert testimony in eight countries, briefed 19 heads of state, and published 29 books. These books include Winning the Oil Endgame, Small is Profitable, Factor Four, and Natural Capitalism. In 2009, Time magazine named Lovins as one of the world's 100 most influential people.

[[Daniel Faulkner]]

CATEGORIES: American murder victims, People from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Police officers, 1955 births, 1981 deaths

Daniel Faulkner (1955 – 1981) was a Philadelphia police officer who was murdered on December 9, 1981. The suspect convicted of the murder was Mumia Abu-Jamal. Due to the murky circumstances surrounding the death, several activists protested about Abu-Jamal’s imprisonment. 

Faulkner was 25 years old at the time of his death.

[[James Hansen]]

CATEGORIES: NASA, American physicists, Scientists from Iowa, 1941 births, Living people

James E. Hansen (born March 29, 1941 in Denison, Iowa) headed the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City, a part of the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland, Earth Sciences Division until early 2013. He is currently an Adjunct Professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University. Hansen is best known for his research in the field of climatology, his testimony on climate change to congressional committees in the 1980s that helped raise broad awareness of the global warming issue, and his continuing advocacy of action to limit the impacts of climate change. He has been a critic of the Bill Clinton and George W. Bush Administration's stances on climate change.

Hansen studied astronomy and physics in the 1960s at the University of Iowa. He did scientific research on the atmospheres of other planets, and later Earth's atmosphere. Hansen was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1996 and he received a US$250,000 Heinz Environment Award

for his research on global warming in 2001. He was listed as one of Time Magazine's 100 Most Influential People in the Time 100 (2006) list and, in 2007, he shared the US$1 million Dan David Prize. On April 5, 2008, Dr. Hansen received the PNC Bank Common Wealth Award of Distinguished Service for his outstanding achievements in science.

Hansen posited in a 2007 paper that 350 ppm (parts per million) of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is a safe  upper limit to avoid a climate tipping point. The current record level is 389 ppm of CO2, an almost 40-percent increase from the pre-industrial revolution level of 278 ppm.  In 1988 the Earth's atmosphere surpassed the 350 ppm mark, while global  CO2 emissions per capita rose.

Hansens strong public opposition to the exploitation of oil sands and the :en:Keystone XL pipeline project created some controversy in the media. Storms of My Grandchildren is Hansen's first book about the climate change. In 2013, Hansen was co-author of an open letter saying "continued opposition to nuclear power threatens humanity's ability to avoid dangerous climate change." 

[[Brighton, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indiana

Brighton is a town of Greenfield Township, in LaGrange County, in the state of Indiana, in the United States.

[[Tarzan (1999 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 movies, 1999 animated movies, American family movies, American musical movies, Disney animated movies, Disney Renaissance, English-language movies, Movies set in the 1880s, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award, Tarzan (Disney), Tarzan movies, Movies directed by Chris Buck

Tarzan is a 1999 animated movie based on Edgar Rice Burroughs' novel Tarzan of the Apes and made by The Walt Disney Company. It was the first Disney animated feature to start at #1 in the box office since Pocahontas. It was the first to have a production budget of $100 million since The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

[[M3 motorway (Great Britain)]]

CATEGORIES: Motorways in England

The M3 is a motorway between Sunbury-on-Thames and Southampton in England. It links London with Southampton and Portsmouth, as well as South West England. It is about 59 long.

[[M2 motorway (Great Britain)]]

CATEGORIES: Motorways in England

The M2 motorway is a motorway between Strood and Faversham in England. It is used as a different way to get to Dover, other than the M20.

[[M4 motorway]]

CATEGORIES: Motorways in England, Motorways in Wales

The M4 is a long motorway in the United Kingdom. It goes from London to South Wales. It also passes Bristol. It was first called the London–South Wales Motorway. 

[[Sunbury-on-Thames]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Surrey

Sunbury-on-Thames is a town in Surrey, England, UK. It is not far from the border with Greater London. It is where the M3 motorway starts.

[[Olive-backed Forest Robin]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes

Olive-backed forest robin (Stiphrornis pyrrholaeumus) (Turdinae) is a bird discovered recently in Gabon. Hall et Moreau recognized as monotypic species merged in Forest Robin, type species S.erythrothorax, and the recent studies confirm this arrangement, i.e. the genetic distance between the two taxa does not deserve species status.

[[Conspiracy theory]]

CATEGORIES: Conspiracy theories

A conspiracy theory is a story that says that a group of people ("conspirators") have agreed ("conspired") to do illegal or evil things and hide them from the public. Conspiracy theories usually have little or no evidence. Many conspiracy theories say that certain historical events were actually caused by such conspirators.

[[WWE Backlash]]

CATEGORIES: WWE Backlash, 1999 establishments, 2009 disestablishments

Backlash was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event made by World Wrestling Entertainment, which started in 1999 and was held in April (but in 2005, it was held in May). From 2004 to 2006, only WWE Raw superstars appeared at Backlash.

The 2007 event was the first WWE PPV event since Judgment Day 2003 (other than Wrestlemania, Summerslam, Royal Rumble, and Survivor Series) to feature all three brands (Raw, SmackDown! and ECW) after WWE stopped with brand-only events.

The last Backlash PPV was in 2009. It was replaced by Extreme Rules in 2010.

[[Judgment Day (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in professional wrestling, Sports in Charlotte, North Carolina, WWE Judgment Day

Judgment Day (2003) took place on May 18 2003 at the Charlotte Coliseum in Charlotte, North Carolina. It was the last pay-per-view starring both brands before WWE started having brand only PPVs. 

[[Prichard, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, 1925 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Alabama

Prichard is a city in Mobile County, Alabama, in the United States.

[[Prattville, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Prattville is a city in Autauga and Elmore counties in the U.S. state of Alabama. It is the county seat of Autauga County.  As of the 2010 Census, the population of the city is 33,960.  The city is northwest of Montgomery.

[[Pleasant Grove, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Pleasant Grove is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 9,983.

[[Pinson, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Pinson is a city and a northeast suburb of Birmingham in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census, the population was 5,033.

[[Pike Road, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Pike Road is a city in Montgomery County, Alabama, in the United States.  As of 2007, the population of the city is 4,570.

[[Piedmont, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Piedmont is a city in Calhoun and Cherokee counties in the U.S. state of Alabama.  The population was 5,120 at the 2000 census. It is included in the Anniston-Oxford, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area.

On March 27, 1994, a F4 tornado struck here, destroying the Goshen United Methodist Church and killing 22 people including the groom's 4-year-old daughter.

[[Pell City, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Pell City is a city in St. Clair County, Alabama, United States. The city is the county seat of St. Clair County along with Ashville. At the 2010 census the population was 12,695.

[[Pelham, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Pelham is a city and suburb of Birmingham in Shelby County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 14,369, but has grown to 20,120 according to the latest Census estimate in 2006. It was named for famed American Civil War officer John Pelham.

[[Phenix City, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Phenix City is a city in Lee County and Russell County in the U.S. state of Alabama.

[[British Rail Class 139]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

Class 139 is the TOPS classification for PPM60 model lightweight railcar units built by Parry People Movers for use on the national rail network in Great Britain.  The class were originally built in 2008 for operation on the Stourbridge Town Branch Line.

[[Enon]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 1990s establishments in New York (state), 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, 2011 disestablishments in the United States, 2010s disestablishments in New York (state), American rock bands, Indie bands, Musical groups disestablished in 2011, Musical groups established in 1999, Musical groups from New York City

Enon is an American indie rock band. They are named after Enon, a village in Ohio. Enon has three members, one man who sings and plays electric guitar and a woman who plays bass guitar and keyboard. The third member plays drums. The woman was born in Japan and lives now in America. The guitarist played before in the band Brainiac.

[[Enon, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ohio

Enon is a village in Clark County, Ohio, United States. The population was 2,638 at the 2000 census.

[[Port Vale F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: English football clubs, Staffordshire, 1873 establishments in England

Port Vale Football Club are an English football club currently playing in Football League Two. They are based in Burslem, Staffordshire — one of six towns that make up the city of Stoke-on-Trent. The club's rivals in the city are Stoke City, games between the two clubs are known as the "Potteries derby". Games against Crewe Alexandra are also called a derby, although Alex are in south Cheshire.

Port Vale are not named after a place, which is unusual for an English league clubs. The two symbols on the clubs badge are a bottle kiln and the Stafford knot.

[[NG]]

NG, Ng, or ng may mean:

[[Mound, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

Mound is a city in Hennepin County, Minnesota,  United States. There were about 9,435 people living in Mound as of the 2000 census.

[[John Holmes]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 1988 deaths, Actors from Ohio, American LGBT sex industry people, American pornographic actors, Bisexual people, Deaths from AIDS, LGBT pornographic actors

John Curtis Holmes (August 8, 1944 – March 13, 1988) better known as John C. Holmes or Johnny Wadd was an American pornographic actor known mainly for his large penis. Holmes made about 2,500 pornographic films, most with him having sexual intercourse with women but at least one with him having sex with a man.

Holmes' penis was said to be between 12.5 to 16 inches (32–41 cm) when at its largest. Fellow pornographic actor Ron Jeremy has said Holmes' penis was 11½ inches, but Holmes claimed it was 14 inches.

John Holmes died of an AIDS-related illness in 1988.

[[Bird-of-paradise]]

CATEGORIES: Paradisaeidae, Birds of Indonesia, Birds of Australia, Birds of Oceania

The birds of paradise are songbirds of the family Paradisaeidae. They live in eastern Indonesia, Maluku, Papua New Guinea, Torres Strait Islands, and eastern Australia. Best known are the members of the genus Paradisaea, including the type species, the greater bird-of-paradise, Paradisaea apoda.

They live in tropical forests like rainforests, swamps and moss forest. They build their nests from soft materials, such as leaves, ferns, and vine monsters, typically placed in a tree fork.

These birds are best known for the remarkable plumage and behaviour of the males. They are an extreme example of how sexual selection works. 

Females choose males who they instinctively see are fine specimens of their species. The colours of the plumage, the construction of the nest, the song and the mating dance all play a part. In some species the pairing is monogamous, and in others the males are polygamous. If they are monogamous, the males look much like the females. If they are polygamous, the males are very much flashier than the females. In both cases, it is the female who makes the choice of partner.

Hunting for plumes and habitat destruction have reduced some species to endangered status. Habitat destruction due to deforestation is now the main threat.

Birds of paradise range in size from the king bird of paradise at 3 grams (1.8 oz) and 15 cm (6 in) to the black sicklebill at 110 cm (43 in) and the curl-crested manucode at 430 grams (15.2 oz).

Birds of paradise have bodies which look rather like a crow. They have stout or long bills and strong feet, About two-thirds of the species are strongly sexually dimorphic.

In most species, the diet is mostly fruit, but riflebirds and sicklebills also prefer insects and other arthropods.

[[Songbird]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri, Birds of Oceania

Songbirds are the main group of birds in the order Passeriformes. They are the suborder Passeri, sometimes called 'oscines' (Latin for songbird). They are a genuine clade.

There are about 4000 species of songbird. Their syrinx (vocal organ) is able to produce varied and beautiful singing. They are a very successful group of birds, in fact they are the dominant birds on Earth today.

It seems songbirds evolved 50 million years ago in the part of Gondwana which later became Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea and Antarctica. They then spread around the world.

[[Passerine]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes

A passerine is a bird of the order Passeriformes, which includes more than half of all bird species. They are perching birds. Most of them are small in size, and most can sing very well. Their main suborder is the Passeri, the songbirds.

[[Superb lyrebird]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri

The superb lyrebird (Menura novaehollandiae) is a pheasant-sized songbird.

It is an Australian endemic species, about 100cm long. It has brown upper body plumage, grayish-brown below, rounded wings and strong legs. It is the longest and third heaviest of all songbirds. 

They are capable of mimicking a wide variety of sounds, including other bird's songs and man-made sounds like car alarms and chainsaws. 

[[Lyrebird]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri, Birds of Australia

A lyrebird is a ground-dwelling Australian bird.  There are two species in the genus Menura. The live in forests, especially rainforests, of eastern Australia, and they were introduced to Tasmania in the 19th century. They are found in two National Forest areas of Victoria, New South Wales and southeast Queensland.

[[Albert's lyrebird]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri, Birds of Australia

The Albert's lyrebird (Menura alberti) is a pheasant-sized songbird, about 90 cm long, with brown upper body feathers and rich chestnut below. It is very similar with the superb lyrebird in its habits. This bird also mimics other species sounds. It is sometimes called the "Prince Albert Lyrebird" or the "Northern Lyrebird". Named after Queen Victoria's husband, Prince Albert, they are smaller than the Superb Lyrebirds.

Albert's lyrebirds are only found in a small area of rainforest in the Lamington National Park near the border of Queensland and New South Wales. There are about 3,500 birds known to exist. There are reports of the birds in the Blackall Range, but this has not been proved. Known groups of birds live on Tamborine Mountain, Scenic Rim and the Nightcap Range.

They eat small insects which they scratch up from the ground. They are a shy bird which will run or fly away if disturbed. During the breeding season in winter, from May to August, the male bird performs displays of song and dance to attract the females. The songs are copied from other birds and forest sounds. The songs can last up to four hours, with some individual songs lasting up to one hour. During his dance, the male bird raises his tail feathers up and over his body. The feathers form a lyre shape which is why they were given the name "lyrebird".

It is listed as a Vulnerable species because it lives in such a limited area, it can only eat a small range of food from that area, and it is not breeding quickly.

[[Corvida]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri

The "Corvida" were one of two "parvorders" that were inside the suborder Passeri. The term is now not used in taxonomy because it is paraphyletic.

[[Passerida]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri

Passerida is one of two "parvorders" in the suborder Passeri. 

[[Piciformes]]

CATEGORIES: Piciformes

Piciformes are order of birds contain about 67 living genera with a little over 400 species, of which the Picidae (woodpeckers and relatives) make up about half. Amost all live in woods (arboreal).

In general, the Piciformes are insectivorous, though the barbets and toucans mostly eat fruit and the honeyguides are unique among birds in digesting beeswax (though insects make up most of their diet).

Nearly all Piciformes have parrot-like zygodactyl feet—two toes forward and two back, an arrangement that has obvious advantages for birds that spend much of their time on tree trunks.  An exception are a few species of three-toed woodpeckers.  The jacamars aside, Piciformes do not have down feathers at any age, only true feathers. They range in size from the rufous piculet at 8 centimetres in length, and weighing 7 grams, to the toco toucan, at 63 centimetres long, and weighing 680 grams. All nest in cavities (holes) and have altricial young, meaning they have to look after their chicks for quite a long time.

[[La Silla Observatory]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical observatories in Chile, Asteroid discoverers

La Silla Observatory is an observatory in Chile with eighteen telescopes that study the stars.  The observatory is one of the biggest in the Southern Hemisphere.  La Silla is a 2,400 meter high mountain that is found in the far southern part of the Atacama Desert.  It can be found about 160 kilometers north of La Serena, 27 kilometers south of the Las Campanas Observatory, and about 100 kilometers north of the Cerro Tololo Observatory.

[[Crimean Astrophysical Observatory]]

CATEGORIES: Observatories, Asteroid discoverers

The Crimean Astrophysical Observatory (CrAO) is found in Ukraine and is an observatory.  It studies the stars and has found a total of 12 minor planets to date:

[[Freema Agyeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Black British actors, Living people, English television actors

Freema Agyeman (born Frema Agyeman on 20 March 1979) is an English actress. She is of Ghanaian and Iranian descent.  She is known by a lot of people for playing Martha Jones on the television series Doctor Who and also in its spin-off series Torchwood.

[[Missy Elliott]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, American rap musicians from Virginia, American record producers, Grammy Award winners, People from Portsmouth, Virginia, Singers from Virginia, 1971 births, Living people

Melissa Arnette "Missy" Elliott (born July 1, 1971) is a five-time Grammy Award-winning American rapper, singer, songwriter, and record producer. With record sales of over seven million in the United States, she is the only female rapper to have six albums certified platinum by the RIAA, including one double platinum (Under Construction).  Elliot has released six studio albums. Her seventh album is called Block Party. She has Graves' disease.

[[Piombino]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tuscany

Piombino is a town and commune in the province of Livorno (Tuscany), Italy, on the border between the Ligurian Sea and the Tyrrhenian Sea, in front of Elba Island and at the northern side of Maremma.

It has an ancient historical centre, derived from the time in which it was the Etruscans' port, near the area of Populonia. In the Middle Ages, it was an important port of Pisa's Republic. Still today Piombino is one of biggest port in Italy, and is one of the most used port for to go in the Elba Island, (with the port of Livorno). Piombino outside the down town has a very big industrial area.

[[Caraș-Severin County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Caraş-Severin ('ka.raʃ se.ve.'rin; Serbian: Караш Северин, Karaš Severin, Karaš-Severin; Krassó-Szörény, Bulgarian: Караш-Северин, Karash-Severin) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in historical region Banat. The capital of Caraş-Severin County is Reşiţa.

[[Gold Medal of Military Valor]]

CATEGORIES: Military honors, Military of Italy, 1793 establishments, 18th century establishments in Italy, 1790s establishments in Europe

The Gold Medal of Military Valor (Italian language: Medaglia d'oro al Valore Militare) is an Italian medal established on 21 May 1793 by King Victor Amadeus III of Sardinia.

During World War I, the medal was awarded to military personnel for exceptional valor in the face of the enemy. After the World War II, the medal was gave to the cities that fought fascism and nazism during the war.

[[Silver Medal of Military Valor]]

CATEGORIES: Military honors, Military of Italy, 1833 establishments, 1830s establishments in England, 19th century establishments in Italy

The Silver Medal of Military Valor (Italian language: Medaglia d'Argento al Valore Militare) is an Italian medal established in 1833 by King Charles Albert of Sardinia.

During World War I, the medal was awarded to military personnel for exceptional valor in combat. Like the Gold Medal and the Bronze Medal, the Silver Medal was given also to citizens who fought against nazism and fascism during  World War II.

[[Bronze Medal of Military Valor]]

CATEGORIES: Military honors, Military of Italy

The Bronze Medal of Military Valor (Medaglia di bronzo al Valore Militare) is an Italian medal awarded by the King of Italy. 

During World War I, the medal was awarded to military personnel for exceptional valor in combat. For each subsequent act of valor, the recipient was awarded a bar in the corresponding class. As the Gold medal and the Silver Medal, after the World War II, the Bronze Medal was gave to the cities that fought against the nazism and the fascism during the war.

[[Reşiţa]]

CATEGORIES: County capitals of Romania

Reşiţa (German: Reschitz, Hungarian: Resicabánya, Krashovani: Решица or Rešica, Czech: Rešice) is a city in the western part of Romania. It is the capital of Caraş-Severin County, in the Banat region.  About 84,000 people live in Reşiţa as of the year 2004.

[[Orbetello]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tuscany

Orbetello is a town and commune in the province of Grosseto (Tuscany), Italy. It is about 35 south of Grosseto, on a lagoon, which is an important Natural Reserve.

[[Pontedera]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tuscany

Pontedera is a small Italian industrial town in Tuscany, Italy, in the province of Pisa. Pontedera is the headquarters of the Piaggio company,from the 1930s one of most important Italian manufacturers motor vehicles such as the Vespa and the Ape. Piaggio was a subsidiary of FIAT. Today the owner of Piaggio is Roberto Colaninno.

Pontedera is in the Arno valley at the confluence of the Era River and the Arno River.

The Town has a small lake in Pietroconti called Braccini lake.

[[Casentino]]

CATEGORIES: Tuscany

The Casentino is the valley in which the first tract of the Arno River flows till Subbiano, in the Italian region Tuscany. It is one of the four valleys in which the Province of Arezzo is divided. The valley's biggest comuni are all in the Arno valley: among these the biggest are Bibbiena and Poppi, while Capolona, Castel Focognano, Castel San Niccolò, Pratovecchio, Stia, Subbiano are more or less smaller. The villages on the neighbouring hills and mountains are much smaller. These are Chitignano, Chiusi della Verna, Montemignaio, Ortignano-Raggiolo and Talla. The Casentino is mentioned in the song "Ich hab in Penna einen Liebsten wohnen", from the Italieniches Liederbuch by Hugo Wolf.

[[Colle di Val d'Elsa]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tuscany

Colle di Val d'Elsa or Colle Val d'Elsa is a town and comune in Tuscany, Italy, in the province of Siena. It has a population of c. 20,000 inhabitants (2005). Its name in Italian means "Hill of Elsa Valley", where "Elsa" is the name of the river which crosses it. Today, Colle di Val d'Elsa is internationally renowned for the production of crystal glassware and art, largely produced in the industrial lower town.

[[British Rail Class 140]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 140 was the prototype of the Pacer diesel multiple unit. Much of the bodywork was constructed using Leyland National bus components, with the exception of the cabs, in 1980.

[[British Rail Class 141]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 141 was the first production model of the Pacer diesel multiple units.

They were created because then British Rail had a large shortage of trains so rather than spending lots of money on expensive proper trains, they invented the Pacer. British Leyland at the time had a surplus in the production of bus bodies so the idea was to weld the bus body from an old bus on to a freight waggon chassis. The result of this was that pacers have notoriously poor suspension and are noisier around corners due to flanging (the squeaky noise that you'll sometimes hear when travelling by train). This makes them non-ideal passenger trains so they are now being replaced (or have been replaced in the case of the class 141) by new trains.

[[Rosignano Marittimo]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tuscany

Rosignano Marittimo is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Livorno in the Italian region Tuscany. It is about 80 km southwest of Florence and about 20 km southeast of Livorno. As of 31 December 2004, it had 31,516 people. It has an area of 120.3 km².

The comune of Rosignano Marittimo contains the frazioni of:  Castiglioncello, Rosignano Solvay, Vada, Castelnuovo della Misericordia, Gabbro, and Nibbiaia.

Rosignano Marittimo borders the following comuni: Castellina Marittima, Cecina, Collesalvetti, Livorno, Orciano Pisano, Santa Luce.

[[James Henry Hammond]]

CATEGORIES: 1807 births, 1864 deaths, Governors of South Carolina, United States senators from South Carolina

James Henry Hammond (November 15, 1807 – November 13, 1864) was from South Carolina. He served as a United States Representative from 1835 to 1836, Governor of South Carolina from 1842 to 1844, and United States Senator from 1857 to 1860. He had a son. He was also a slave owner; his plantation is in Redcliffe Park in South Carolina. The stables at Redcliffe Park were either built by him or his son.

[[Santa Croce sull'Arno]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Tuscany

Santa Croce sull'Arno is an Italian town in the province of Pisa, Tuscany. About 13,400 people lived there as of 2005.

[[British Rail Class 142]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 142 is a class of Pacer diesel multiple units used in the United Kingdom. 96 units were built by BREL in Derby between 1985 and 1987. They were a development of the earlier Class 141 which were introduced in 1984.

[[Functional illiteracy]]

CATEGORIES: Knowledge

Functional illiteracy means that a person is not able to read, write, and do math well in regular life. Someone who is fully illiterate can not read, write, or do math at all. Such people have perhaps never learnt how to read or write; perhaps they did not need to. A person who is functionally illiterate is different - at some point in their lives, these people were taught reading and writing skills. For different reasons, adults who are functionally illiterate try to avoid writing and reading as much as possible. That way, a person who is functionally illiterate may be able to write their name, but it is very difficult for them to write more than a few sentences.

These people have trouble functioning in modern society: when they are confronted with printed materials they  cannot perform simple tasks such as filling out a form, understanding a contract, following written instructions, reading a newspaper article, traffic signs, consulting a dictionary, or understanding a bus schedule.

Because of functional illiteracy, these people also have a lot of trouble using modern communication technologies, such as a personal computer or a mobile phone.

[[British Rail Class 143]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 143 is a diesel multiple unit, part of the Pacer family of trains introduced between 1985 & 1986. They originally worked around North East England but were later transferred to Wales.  The coaches are based on an Alexander bus body mounted on a chassis from a freight or Goods truck.August 2008 Twenty-five units were built, numbered 143001-025 but later re-numbered 143601 - 143625. 

[[British Rail Class 144]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 144 "Pacer" diesel multiple units (DMUs) were built by BREL Derby from 1986-1987. A total of 23 units were built, replacing many of the earlier First-generation "Heritage" DMUs.

[[British Rail Class 150]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL products, 1984 in the United Kingdom

The British Rail Class 150 "Sprinter" diesel multiple units (DMUs) were built by BREL from 1984-87. A total of 137 units were built in three main subclasses, replacing many of the earlier first-generation "Heritage" DMUs.

[[British Rail Class 151]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 151 was a prototype class of DMU built by Metro Cammell in the mid-1980s.

[[British Rail Class 153]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 153 "Sprinter" is a single-car diesel multiple unit train.

In the early 1990s, British Rail took the decision that running 2-car trains on rural routes was inefficient, and identified the need for single-carriage trains.  Initially consideration was given to splitting the Met-Cam Class 156 units to form class 152 units, however due to various problems with the Class 155 units, the decision was taken to split these units instead.

[[British Rail Class 155]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 155 "Super-Sprinter" is a diesel multiple unit. These DMUs were built by British Leyland at Workington (using Leyland National bus components) between 1987 and 1988 as part of British Rail's replacement of its ageing diesel fleet which were First-Generation. 

[[British Rail Class 156]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 156 "Super-Sprinter" is a diesel multiple unit (DMU). A hundred and fourteen of these units were built from 1987 to 1989 by Metro-Cammell (now owned by Alstom) at their Washwood Heath Works in Birmingham. They were built to replace elderly First Generation "Heritage" DMUs and locomotive-hauled passenger trains.

[[British Rail Class 157]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

Class 157 was the designation applied to a range of Diesel multiple unit trains of the Sprinter family planned for regional use, in particular for the Strathclyde Passenger Transport Executive. As well as the class number, British Rail reserved carriage numbers in the 526xx and 576xx series for these units.

As the Privatisation of British Rail began, this project became unviable as resources were concentrated on the privatisation process, leading to the famous 1064-day 'drought' of new train orders. By the time this period was over, plans had moved on and Stratchclyde ended up receiving a batch of Class 170 units.

[[British Rail Class 158]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL products

British Rail Class 158 Express Sprinter is a type of diesel multiple unit (DMU) train. They were built for British Rail between 1989 and 1992 by BREL at their Derby Works. They were built to replace old DMUs and locomotive-hauled passenger trains. Class 159 trains are almost the same as Class 158s. They work many non-electrified services such as Exeter St David's To London Waterloo. They were among the last new trains in the UK to be built with the old toilet system which emptied directly onto the track. By the 2000’s some class 158’s were exported to Thailand for use on Thailand’s railway. 

[[British Rail Class 159]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 159, known as "South Western Turbo" by Network SouthEast (but in reality a member of the Sprinter family), is a diesel multiple unit, built from 1989-93 by BREL at Derby Works. 

[[British Rail Class 165]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 165 "Network Turbo" diesel multiple units (DMUs) is a diesel multiple unit that were built by BREL at York Works from 1990–1992.

[[British Rail Class 166]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 166 "Network Express Turbo" diesel multiple units (also known as just "Thames Turbos"  ) were built by ABB at York Works from 1992-93. These units are the express version of the Class 165 "Network Turbo" units. They have a top speed of 90mph (suitable for mainline use), are carpeted throughout and have air-conditioning (the 165s lack the latter two features and it should be noted the 166 is similar to the Class 158 in terms of what it offers). 

[[British Rail Class 168]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, Adtranz multiple units

The Class 168 Clubman is a diesel multiple-unit (DMU) train used by Chiltern Railways for InterCity services between London and the Midlands. They were built in several batches from 1997 onwards. The first batch of units was classified 168/0 under TOPS and bore a large resemblance, both visually and in terms of electrical design, to the Class 165 units previously built by BREL at York. This is because they were based on plans originally drawn up by Network SouthEast and thus can be considered to be Networker Turbos. Subsequent builds, classified 168/1 and 168/2, were given the newer style cab and a new design of wiring and thus are part of the Turbostar family of trains.  

[[British Rail Class 170]]

CATEGORIES: Bombardier multiple units, Adtranz multiple units, British Rail diesel multiple units, 1998 establishments in the United Kingdom

The Class 170 "Turbostar" is a diesel multiple unit (DMU) built by Bombardier Transportation (previously ADtranz) at their Derby Litchurch Lane Works, England. This has become the most popular type of DMU built since the privatisation of Britain's railways, with 122 units built. 

[[British Rail Class 171]]

CATEGORIES: Bombardier multiple units, Adtranz multiple units, British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 171 "Turbostar" is a type of DMU operated by Southern. The Class 171 is identical to the Class 170, except for the replacement of the BSI coupler with a Dellner coupler. This provision was made in order to allow emergency joining with Class 377 DC third-rail electric units.

[[British Rail Class 172]]

CATEGORIES: Bombardier multiple units, British Rail diesel multiple units, London Overground, Future British rail vehicles

The Class 172 is a  diesel multiple unit (DMU) of the Turbostar family similar to the Class 168, Class 170 and Class 171.

[[British Rail Class 175]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 175 ''Coradia'' is a model of diesel multiple unit passenger train used in the United Kingdom. They were built from 1999–2001 by Alstom at Washwood Heath in Birmingham. The fleet is currently based at Chester Depot. The fleet is used in North Wales on services from Holyhead, South Wales, normally going south or up to the North Wales Coast. Many also operate round the Manchester area.

[[British Rail Class 180]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 180 Adelante is a class of 14 diesel-hydraulic multiple-unit passenger trains built by Alstom at Washwood Heath in 2000/01 for First Great Western (FGW). They are part of the Coradia 1000 family, along with the Class 175. After recurring technical problems with the trains, FGW handed them all back to leasing company Angel Trains in 2008/09. After a period in store, they were leased to Hull Trains and Grand Central, while the remaining five units returned to service with FGW. The latter five have since moved to Grand Central, whilst the four Hull Trains units have been transferred to East Midlands Railway.

[[British Rail Class 185]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 185 (branded by its operators as the Pennine Class 185) is a diesel multiple-unit passenger train built by Siemens Transportation Systems in Germany for the British train operating company First TransPennine Express.

[[British Rail Class 201]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 201 (or 6S) six-car diesel-electric multiple units (DEMUs) were built in 1957–1958 at Eastleigh railway works and Ashford railway works. They were built for use on the London to Hastings line. Several tunnels along the route had restricted clearance, meaning that these units were built with a narrow body profile.

[[British Rail Class 202]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 202 (or 6L) diesel-electric multiple units were built from 1957 to 1958 at Eastleigh railway works and Ashford railway works. These units were built to work the London Charing Cross to Hastings services. Several tunnels along the route had restricted clearance, so these units were built with a narrow body profile.

[[British Rail Class 203]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Class 203 was the final version of the Hastings narrow-bodied diesel multiple unit train. It was originally  classified 6B. They were delivered in 1958. Their unit numbers were 1031–1037. They differed from class 202 by having a buffet car.

[[British Rail Class 204]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 204 diesel multiple units were two-car versions of the Class 205 '3H' units. They were classified as 2H under the old system. Their unit numbers were in the range 1119-1122.

[[British Rail Class 205]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 205 (or 3H) diesel-electric multiple units were built by BR at Eastleigh railway works from 1957–1962.

[[British Rail Class 206]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 206 or 3R was a type of diesel-electric multiple unit (DEMU) first created in 1964. They were re-formed from Class 201 and Class 416 vehicles for use on Reading-Redhill-Tonbridge (North Downs Line) services. Six three-car sets were created, numbered 1201–1206.  They were nicknamed 'Tadpole' units because of the contrast between the wide-bodied 416 'head' and the narrow-bodied 206 'tail'.

[[British Rail Class 207]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The British Rail Class 207 (or 3D) diesel-electric multiple units were built by BR at Eastleigh railway works in 1962.

[[British Rail Class 210]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 210 was a type of diesel-electric multiple unit built in the late 1970s. The class was intended to be a modern train to replace the ageing types in use on the Southern Region of British Railways but the prototypes built did not manage to secure production for the class and they were withdrawn in the 1980s. 

[[Christopher Flavin]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Environment, Year of birth missing (living people)

Christopher Flavin is the President of the Worldwatch Institute, an independent research organization focused on natural resource and environmental issues, based in Washington, DC. He is also a founding member of the Board of Directors of the Business Council for Sustainable Energy] and is a member of the National Academy of Sciences Board on Energy and Environmental Systems, the Climate Institute, and the Environmental and Energy Study Institute.  His research and writing focus is international energy and climate policy.

Flavin has participated in several notable international conferences, including the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 and the Climate Change Conference in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997. He has testified before national and state legislatures and meets frequently with government and international leaders.

Flavin is a native of Monterey, California and a cum laude graduate of Williams College, where he studied economics, biology, and environmental studies.

[[British Rail Class 220]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, Bombardier multiple units

The Class 220 ''Voyager'' is a class of diesel-electric high-speed multiple-unit trains built by Bombardier Transportation for the British train operating company Virgin Trains, but are now operated by CrossCountry. They are air-conditioned throughout, with powered doors and a top speed of 125. They were introduced to replace the thirty-year-old High Speed Train and Class 47 fleets. The trains were built between 2000 and 2001 and the first train entered service on 5 June 2001.

[[British Rail Class 221]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, Tilting trains, Bombardier multiple units

The Class 221 ''SuperVoyager is a train currently used by Virgin Trains and CrossCountry in the United Kingdom. They were built by Bombardier Transportation between 2000 and 2002 for the British train operating companies Virgin CrossCountry and Virgin West Coast. The first Class 221 SuperVoyager entered traffic between Birmingham and Brighton on 12 April 2002. The Class 221 SuperVoyagers are similar to the Class 220 Voyager'' units, but they are built with a tilting mechanism offering up to six degrees of tilt to allow faster speeds on curved tracks. They have a maximum speed of 125.

[[Lester Brown]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Environment, 1934 births, American writers, People from New Jersey

Lester R. Brown (born in 1934 in New Jersey) is an environmental analyst who has authored and co-authored over fifty books. His books have been translated into more than forty languages. He is the founder of the Worldwatch Institute and founder and president of the Earth Policy Institute.

The recipient of twenty-five honorary degrees and a MacArthur Fellowship, Brown has been described as "one of the world's most influential thinkers." 

[[British Rail Class 222]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, Bombardier multiple units

The British Rail Class 222 is a diesel-electric multiple unit high-speed train capable of 125. Twenty-seven units have been built by Bombardier Transportation.

[[British Rail Classes 251 and 261]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units

The Blue Pullman was a class of luxury train used from 1960 to 1973 by British Railways in the United Kingdom. As opposed to the previous Pullman Car Company locomotive-hauled carriage trains, and the Brighton Belle electric multiple units, the Blue Pullmans were the first diesel-electric multiple units designed for high-speed Pullman train services incorporating several novel features. Named after their custom blue livery, the trains were conceived under the railway 1955 Modernisation Plan, to create new luxury first-class diesel express trains, to compete with the motor car and the emerging domestic air travel market. Although not entirely successful in their own right, the Blue Pullmans demonstrated the possibility of high-speed fixed-formation multiple-unit Inter City train services and inspired the later development of the InterCity 125. After their withdrawal, none of the units survived into preservation.

[[British Rail Class 252]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL products

Class 252 was the classification allocated to the prototype High Speed Train unit, numbered 252001.

[[British Rail Classes 253, 254 and 255]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel multiple units, BREL products

Class 253, Class 254 and Class 255 are classifications allocated to InterCity 125 high speed trains in Great Britain. 

[[Hum Ek Hain]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 2004 movies

Hum Ek Hain is a Pakistani Urdu movie directed by Syed Noor which was released across theaters in Pakistan in November 2004. It stars Shaan, Saima, Shamyl Khan, Haidar Sultan. The title was meant to be 786 but the Censor Board Members did not approve of 786 so it was changed to Hum Ek Hain.

[[British Rail Class 313]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

Class 313 electric multiple units were built by BREL at York Works from 1976-77, these being the first second-generation EMUs to be constructed for British Rail. They were also the first dual-voltage units to be built, capable of drawing power via 25 kV AC overhead, or 750 V DC third-rail, and the first units in Britain to have fully automatic couplers which allowed both physical coupling and also the connection of control electric and air supplies to be carried out without the need to leave the cab. Their passenger seats were an improvement on former types.

[[British Rail Class 300]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

Class 300 was allocated to a proposed fleet of parcels-carrying electric multiple units, which were to be converted from former Class 307 units.

[[Khamosh Pani]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani movies, 2004 movies, Punjabi-language movies

Khamosh Pani (خاموش پانی, खामोश पानी, Silent Waters) is a 2003 French/German production about a widowed mother and her young son set in a late 1970s village in Punjab, Pakistan which is coming under radical influence.

The movie was released in India too. It was shot in a village in Pakistan.

[[British Rail Class 302]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 302 (pre-TOPS AM2) was a type of electric multiple unit (EMU) introduced between 1958 - 1960 for outer suburban passenger services on the London, Tilbury and Southend Railway route. This class of multiple unit was constructed using the Mark 1 bodyshell and was slam door.

[[Gbangbatoke]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Africa, Sierra Leone

Gbangbatoke is a small town in southern Sierra Leone. It is in the Moyamba District. The people of Gbangbatoke are mainly from the Mende ethnic group. The Mende language is the main language.

Two of Sierra Leone's important politicians, Sir Milton Margai and Sir Albert Margai were born in Gbangbatoke.

[[British Rail Class 303]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, Transport in Scotland

The British Rail Class 303 is a type of electric multiple unit. They are also known as "Blue Train" units. They were introduced in 1960 for the electrification of the North Clyde and the Cathcart Circle lines in Strathclyde. At first they were classified as AM3 units before the introduction of the TOPS classification system. They were the dominant EMU on the Glasgow suburban railway network for over 25 years. The final units were withdrawn from service in 2002.

[[British Rail Class 304]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 304 is a type of electric multiple unit. They were built for suburban use on the first phases of the West Coast Main Line electrification between Crewe and Manchester/Liverpool/Rugby. They were at first classed as AM4 units and later became Class 304 under the TOPS numbering system. They could be found in operation over most of the southern West Coast Main Line. The units conformed to the 1959-design for alternating current (AC) electrical multiple units, and were externally very similar to the Class 305, Class 308 and the 1,200 V direct current (DC) class  Class 504 units. No units survived preservation, and all units were eventually scrapped.

[[British Rail Class 305]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 305 was an alternating current (AC) electric multiple unit (EMU). Under the pre-1973 British Rail numbering system, the class was known as AM5. When TOPS as introduced, the class became Class 305.

[[British Rail Class 306]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 306 was a type of electric multiple unit (EMU) introduced in 1949. It consisted of 92 three-car trains which were used on newly electrified suburban lines between Shenfield and London Liverpool Street.

[[British Rail Class 307]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 307 electric multiple units were built by BR at Eastleigh Works from 1954-1956. They were initially classified as AM7 before the introduction of TOPS.

[[British Rail Class 309]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 309 "Clacton Express" electric multiple units (EMUs) were built by British Rail (BR) York Works from 1962-1963. They were initially classified as Class AM9 before the introduction of TOPS. These units were the first express 25 kV alternating current (AC) units to be built by British Rail, and British Rail's first EMUs to be capable of 100 mph.

[[British Rail Class 308]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail (BR) Class 308 alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by BR at York, in three batches, from 1961–62. They were initially classified as AM8 units before the introduction of TOPS.

[[British Rail Class 310]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail (BR) Class 310 is a slam-door, alternating current (AC) electric multiple unit (EMU) introduced in 1966 as part of the West Coast Main Line electrification project. They were initially classified as Class AM10 units before the introduction on the TOPS classification system. Constructed at BR's Derby Carriage and Wagon Works. They consisted of four carriages - a second class driving trailer, a second class trailer, a second class motor car (with guard's/luggage compartment above which the pantograph was mounted) and a composite (1st and 2nd class) driving trailer. The maximum speed was 75 miles per hour. A glass partition behind the driver's cab enabled passengers in the leading and rear coaches to have an excellent view of the line ahead or behind.

[[British Rail Class 311]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 311 alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by Cravens at Sheffield in 1967. They were intended for use on the line from Glasgow Central to Gourock and Wemyss Bay, which was electrified in 1967.

[[British Rail Class 312]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 312 is a type of alternating current (AC) electric multiple unit (EMU) built in 1966-1974 intended for use on outer-suburban passenger services. It was the last class of multiple unit to be constructed to the British Rail Mark 2 bodyshell, and also the last with slam doors. This latter feature contributed to their relatively early withdrawal (between 25–28 years old, compared to a life expectancy of 30 years). Ironically, the examples withdrawn by First Great Eastern and later 'one' Great Eastern between 2003 and 2004 were slightly newer than most of the carriages the operator is introducing during 2005 for use on its premier express service.

[[British Rail Class 314]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

British Rail Class 314 alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by BREL at York works from 1978 to 1979. They were the second variety of British Rail's then-standard 1972 design for suburban EMUs, which eventually encompassed 755 vehicles and five Classes (Class 313/314/315/507/508). Able to operate from 25 kV overhead line current collection only, the fleet worked outer-suburban services on the Strathclyde Passenger Transport rail network in Central Scotland.

[[British Rail Class 315]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

British Rail Class 315 alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by BREL at York works from 1980 to 1981. They were the fifth and final variety of British Rail's then-standard 1972 design for suburban EMUs, which eventually encompassed 755 vehicles and five Classes (Class 313/314/315/507/508). Like the Glasgow-based Class 314 units, they are only able to operate from 25 kV overhead line current collection. The fleet works inner-suburban services on the Great Eastern Main Line run by the train operating company TfL Rail out of London Liverpool Street. Class 315s also work services from Liverpool Street to Chingford, Enfield Town and Cheshunt operated by London Overground.

[[British Rail Classes 316 and 457]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

Class 316 and Class 457 were two suggested TOPS classifications. They were given to a single electric multiple unit (EMU) at different stages of its use as a prototype for the Networker series.

[[British Rail Class 317]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 317 electric multiple units were built by BREL at York Works in two batches, from 1981-82 and 1985-87.  They were the first of several classes of British Rail EMU to be based on the all-steel Mark 3 bodyshell, departing from the "PEP"-aluminium design which had spawned the earlier Class 313 to Class 315. The Mark 3 bodyshell was also the basis of Class 318, Class 455, and the diesel "sprinters" pioneered by the Class 150.

[[Nehebkau]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology, Egyptian gods and goddesses

In Egyptian mythology, Nehebkau (also spelled Nehebu-Kau, and Neheb Ka) guarded the entrance to Duat, the Egyptian underworld. He was made up of Ka and Ba, the two parts of the soul. He is pictured as a snake with two heads. Atum was said to have to keep his finger on Nehebkau to keep him from being out of control. Since he was a snake, he was believed to heal those bitten by snakes and/or scorpions.

[[British Rail Class 318]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 318 is an electric multiple unit (EMU) train, which operates exclusively in the Strathclyde Partnership for Transport network in West Central Scotland. The units were introduced fully on 29 September 1986 as part of the electrification of the Ayrshire Coast Line between Glasgow Central and Ayr/Ardrossan with alternating current (AC) overhead lines. Usage was extended to Largs in January 1987. They were also used on the Inverclyde Line in small numbers and on rare occasions the Cathcart Circle Lines (including to Neilston and Newton).

[[Ka]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology

Ka is one of the five parts of the Egyptian idea of the soul. The Ka was the life force and left the body during death. Ka was believed to be in food and drink and was placed with the dead for offerings. The Egyptians believed that at death the Ba and the Ka join together through Nehebkau before entering Duat.

[[British Rail Class 319]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 319 “flex” dual-voltage electric multiple units (EMU) were built by BREL York in two batches from 1987–88 and 1990. The trains were introduced for new north-south cross-London services from Bedford to Brighton, and since privatisation these services have been operated by Thameslink and First Capital Connect, the former franchise having been merged with the Great Northern section of the former WAGN franchise to form the latter train operating company at 0200 BST on 1 April 2006 as a result of re-franchising. Class 319 units have dual power pick-up, from either 25 kV alternating current (AC) overhead lines for services north of London, or 750 V direct current (DC) third rail to the south. However, some units were only used on outer suburban services in South London. The Class 325 postal units were based on the Class 319 units, with the same traction equipment and body design, but are fitted with cabs of the same design as the newer Class 365 and Class 465 

Networker units.

Since delivery of new rolling stock for Thameslink services started in 2015, a number of Class 319 units have been redeployed for use on other operators' services, including in the North West of England. In 2017, the last Thameslink units were withdrawn and were replaced by Class 700s.

[[British Rail Class 320]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 320 is an alternating current (AC) electric multiple unit (EMU) train found on the Strathclyde Partnership for Transport (SPT) rail network in Central Scotland, and is used exclusively on the North Clyde Line between Helensburgh and Airdrie, North Lanarkshire via Glasgow Queen Street railway station.

[[Ba]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology

Ba is one of the five parts of the spirit in Egyptian mythology. Ba is considered to be the soul. Ba is believed to have a unique personality based on the person who has it. The Ba was pictured as a bird that flew from the body to join with the Ka at death. A Ba was said to return to the sarcophagus if it was properly stored. In some stories, Bas sometimes act as guardians in the underworld.

[[British Rail Class 321]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 321 alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by BREL York in three batches from 1986–1989. The design was very successful and led to the development of the similar Class 320 and Class 322 units for use by Strathclyde PTE and Stansted Express (now used by  Greater Anglia) respectively. The bodyshell design was also used for construction of the Class 456 direct current (DC) units. The Class 321s were nicknamed 'Dusty Bins', due to the class number sharing the same name as the game show 3-2-1. (This name has also been given to the diesel multiple unit (DMU) Class 153 no. 153321 for the same reason).

[[High-speed rail]]

CATEGORIES: High-speed rail

High-speed rail is a type of passenger rail transport that operates significantly faster than the normal rail traffic. Early Shinkansen trains had a top speed of 200km/h. Various definitions are used in different contries. 

According to the European Union, high-speed trains must run at least 200km/h (125 mph) on existing lines, and at least 250 on newly built ones.

According to the United States Federal Railroad Administration, they should go above 90 mph (145 km/h) but there is no single standard, and lower speeds can be required by local constraints.

As of 2020, speeds of 300 to 350 km/h are common in regular operation. 

[[InterCity 125]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives, BREL locomotives, Bo-Bo locomotives, British Rail diesel multiple units, High-speed trains, United Kingdom rolling stock, British Rail coaching stock, 1976 establishments in the United Kingdom

The InterCity 125 is the brand name of British Rail's High Speed Train (HST) fleet. The InterCity 125 train is made up of two locomotives, one at each end of a fixed formation of carriages, and is capable of 125 mph in regular service. British Rail initially used the fleet on the Great Western Main Line, on the East Coast Main Line, on the Cross Country Route and latterly on the Midland Main Line, serving destinations such as London, Bristol, Edinburgh, as far south as Penzance and as far north as Aberdeen and Inverness. The InterCity 125 took the world record for the fastest diesel-powered train, when it was recorded at an absolute maximum speed of 148 during 1987. From 2017, most have been replaced by the British Rail Class 800.

[[Ancient Egyptian concept of the soul]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian mythology

The ancient Egyptians believed the soul was divided into five parts Ren, Ba, Ka, Sheut, and Ib.

[[Purple Mountain Observatory]]

CATEGORIES: Observatories, Asteroid discoverers, Nanjing

Purple Mountain Observatory is an observatory that uses telescopes to look at the stars for new objects in space.  It can be found on Purple Mountain in Nanjing, China.

Many asteroids were found at the observatory. Among the asteroids found are the Trojan asteroids 2223 Sarpedon, 2260 Neoptolemus, 2363 Cebriones, 2456 Palamedes, and 3494 Purple Mountain.

[[Anti-nuclear movement in California]]

CATEGORIES: Environment, Nuclear energy

The 1970s proved to be a pivotal period for the anti-nuclear movement in California. There was confrontation between nuclear power advocates and environmentalists. In 1981, 1,900 activists were arrested during protests at Diablo Canyon Power Plant. In 1984, the Davis City Council declared the city to be a nuclear free zone. California has banned the approval of new nuclear reactors since the late 1970s because of concerns over waste disposal.

[[British Rail Class 322]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

The British Rail Class 322 electric multiple units were built by BREL between 1988-90. Five 4-car units were built for the dedicated Stansted Express service from London Liverpool Street to Stansted Airport. The units are now operated by Greater Anglia.

[[British Rail Class 323]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 323 electric multiple units were built by Hunslet TPL from 1992-96. Forty-three 3-car units were built for inner-suburban services around Birmingham and Manchester. These trains were the last vehicles to be built by the struggling manufacturer Hunslet before it collapsed.

[[Wrightwood, California]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in California, Settlements in San Bernardino County, California

Wrightwood is a census-designated place in San Bernardino County, California. About 3,800 people lived in Wrightwood as of the year 2002. Wrightwood has an area of 5.7 square miles.

[[Slash Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Companies based in Los Angeles

Slash Records is a record label in Los Angeles. It started out producing local and punk rock bands.  The label was sold to London Records in 1986.

[[John Macarthur (wool pioneer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1766 births, 1834 deaths

John Macarthur (1766 – 11 April 1834) was a soldier, business man, politician and the man who started the Australian wool industry. His farmhouse, called Elizabeth Farm after his wife, is still standing in Parramatta, New South Wales, where it is open to the public as a historic house. 

[[Lachlan Macquarie]]

CATEGORIES: 1762 births, 1824 deaths, Governors of New South Wales, British Army officers

Major-General Lachlan Macquaire CB (31 January 1762 – 1 July 1824)  was a British military officer and the fifth Governor of New South Wales from 1810 to 1821. 

Macquarie had a leading role in the social, economic and architectural development of Australia. Historians say he changed New South Wales from a penal colony to a free settlement. This was very important in making the future of Australian society.

[[She Wants You]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs, Billie Piper songs, Pop songs

"She Wants You" is a single by English singer and actress Billie Piper. The single reached #3 in the UK becoming her third top three hit in a row.

[[Honey to the Bee]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs, Billie Piper songs, Pop songs

"Honey to the Bee" is a single by Billie Piper released in 1999. It got to #3 in the UK singles chart. In January 2007, the song was used by Radio 1 DJ Chris Moyles as part of an experiment to test out the new British singles chart rules that came into effect that month, which prompted the song to rise up the iTunes music charts, and reached number 17 in the singles chart on 21 January 2007 and number 11 in the download chart.

[[British Rail Class 325]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products, Non-passenger multiple units

The British Rail Class 325 is a dual-voltage alternating current (AC) electric multiple unit (EMU) train used for postal train services. Their cabs look similar to the Class 365 and Class 465 Networker units built around the same time. The Class 325 was British Rail's newest unit to take over parcels working on electrified lines.

[[British Rail Class 332]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 332 (originally Class 331) was  electric multiple unit passenger trains used on the Heathrow Express. These trains went from London Paddington station to Heathrow Airport. There were 14 trains which had four or five carriages each. They were built in 1998 by CAF with traction equipment supplied by Siemens Transportation Systems at a factory in Zaragoza, Spain.

[[British Rail Class 333]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 333 electric multiple units were built by CAF with traction equipment supplied by Siemens Transportation Systems and are based on the Class 332 trains.

[[British Rail Class 334]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 334 is a suburban electric multiple unit built by the train maker Alstom in Birmingham. They are part of the Juniper family of trains along with Classes 458 and 460. They were built for SPT/Abellio ScotRail outer suburban services in Glasgow, UK. Their introduction saw the withdrawal of the last of Glasgow's old Class 303 "Blue Train" sets which had been in service since 1960.

[[British Rail Class 341 and 342]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

Class 341 and Class 342 were proposed electric multiple unit classes from the Networker series planned to operate new services on the UK rail network.

[[British Rail Class 350]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 350 "Desiro" is class of electrical multiple unit built by Siemens Mobility from 2004- present. Thirty of these units, known as Class 350/1s, were built for use by Central Trains and Silverlink on regional express services and Central Citylink  services on the southern section of the West Coast Main Line. A further 37 units known as Class 350/2s were delivered to the UK for London Midland. The "Desiro" family also includes units of Classes 185, 360, 444 and 450. This train is nearly identical to the 450, as it was originated from that.

[[British Rail Class 357]]

CATEGORIES: Adtranz multiple units, British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 357 "Electrostar" alternating current (AC) electric multiple units (EMU) were built by ADtranz, Derby (now owned by Bombardier Transportation) from 1999 to 2003 at a cost of approximately £350 million. The Electrostar family also includes Classes 375, 376, 377 and 378, and is the most numerous type of EMU built in the post-privatisation period of Britain's railways. These units were built in two batches for LTS Rail, since rebranded as c2c.

[[British Rail Class 360]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 360 electric multiple units were built by Siemens in two sub-types from 2002–2005. These units are part of the Desiro family.

[[British Rail Class 365]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 365 "Networker Express" are dual-voltage (25kV AC and 750V DC) electric multiple units built by ABB at York from 1994-95. These were the last units to be built at York works before it closed. All Class 365 units received front end cab modifications to equip them with cab air conditioning.

[[British Rail Class 370]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, BREL products

British Rail's Class 370 tilting trains, also referred to as APT-P (meaning Advanced Passenger Train Prototype), were the pre-production Advanced Passenger Train units. Unlike the earlier experimental gas-turbine APT-E unit, these units were powered by 25kV AC overhead electrification and were used on the West Coast Main Line between London Euston and Glasgow Central. The APT-P is the most powerful domestic train to have operated in Britain, the eight traction motors fitted to the two central Motor Cars giving a total output of 8,000 hp. This enabled the train to set the UK rail speed record of 162.2 mph in December 1979, a record that stood for 23 years.

[[British Rail Classes 371, 381 and 471]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units

Class 371, Class 381 and Class 471 were proposed electric multiple unit classes from the Networker family intended to operate services in the south-east of England.

[[British Rail Class 373]]

CATEGORIES: High-speed trains, British Rail electric multiple units

The British Rail Class 373 or TGV-TMST train is an electric multiple unit that operates Eurostar's high-speed rail service between Britain, France and Belgium via the Channel Tunnel. Part of the TGV family, it has a smaller cross-section to fit within the constrictive British loading gauge, was originally able to operate on the UK third rail network, and has a lot of fireproofing in case of fire in the tunnel.  This is both the second-longest—394—and second-fastest train in regular UK passenger service.

[[British Rail Class 375]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, Bombardier multiple units, Adtranz multiple units

The British Rail Class 375 Electrostar electric multiple unit train was built by Bombardier Transportation (previously ADtranz) at their Derby Works, from 1999 to 2005. The Electrostar family, which also includes Classes 357, 376, 377, 378, 379 and 387, is the most numerous type of EMU introduced since the privatisation of British Rail. The trains are operated by Southeastern, along with their Class 377 fleet, on regional and outer suburban services. 

[[British Rail Class 376]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, Bombardier multiple units

The Class 376 Suburban Electrostar is a model of electric multiple-unit passenger train manufactured by Bombardier Transportation. It is part of the Electrostar family, which are the most common EMUs introduced since the privatisation of British Rail. The units were ordered by Connex South Eastern, introduced by South Eastern Trains, and are now operated by Southeastern.

[[British Rail Class 377]]

CATEGORIES: Bombardier multiple units, British Rail electric multiple units

The Class 377 Electrostars are electric multiple units built by Bombardier Transportation (previously ADtranz) at their Derby Works, from 2001-2014. The Electrostar family, which also includes Classes 357, 375, 376, 378, 379 and 387 and is the most numerous type of EMU built in the post-privatisation period of Britain's railways.

[[British Rail Class 378]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, Bombardier multiple units, London Overground, Future British rail vehicles

The Class 378 Capitalstar is a type of electric multiple unit used on the London Overground network. The class is derived from the Class 376 trains currently used by Southeastern, and are also part of the Electrostar family, but featuring significant differences. Primarily,  the Class 378 features fully longitudinal seating similar to that used on London Underground rolling stock, which is necessary for the high passenger volume services run on London Overground. The units were constructed by Bombardier Transportation, and were delivered in two separate batches.

The Class 378/0s were delivered as 3-car units with dual-voltage capability. They were extended to 4-car units in 2009-2010.

The Class 378/1s were delivered as 4-car units with third rail capability only. They are used on the East London Line and were previously used on the Watford DC Lines. 

In 2014-16, all units had an extra carriage added to increase capacity, making them 5-car units. During the change, extended units carried a blue square on the front and back of the train saying "5 Car Train". These were taken off after all the trains were extended. 

[[British Rail Class 380]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, Transport in Scotland

Class 380 is the designation given to a class of electric multiple unit train that are used on the national railway network in Scotland, in the United Kingdom.

[[British Rail Class 390]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, Tilting trains

The British Class 390 "Pendolino" electric multiple unit is a tilting train built by Fiat Ferroviaria using Fiat tilt systems. Fifty-three 9-car units were built for Virgin Trains from 2001 to 2004. These trains were the last to be assembled at Alstom's Washwood Heath plant, in Birmingham, before it closed in 2005.

[[British Rail Class 395]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail electric multiple units, High-speed trains, Shinkansen, Future British rail vehicles

Class 395 is the designation of new dual-voltage EMUs being built to operate new high speed domestic services on the High Speed 1 railway line in the United Kingdom.  The trains will be the fastest operating domestic service trains in Britain, running at a maximum speed of 225 when they are introduced by operator Southeastern in 2009.

[[Cyberman]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who

The Cybermen are a fictional race of cyborgs in the British television series Doctor Who. They are one of the greatest and longest enemies of the Doctor. Cybermen were originally humanoids from the Earth's twin planet Mondas. The people of Mondas began to put more and more artificial metal parts into their bodies to keep themselves alive, making them cyborgs. This led to the race starting to think logically and calculating, showing no emotions. The Cybermen also turning other people into cyborgs.

They were created by Dr. Kit Pedler (the unofficial scientific advisor to the programme) and Gerry Davis in 1966, first appearing in the serial, The Tenth Planet, which was the last to feature William Hartnell as the First Doctor. They have since been in the show a lot.

A parallel universe version of the Cybermen appeared in the 2006 series in the two-part story, Rise of the Cybermen and The Age of Steel. They also appear in Army Of Ghosts and Doomsday. They also appeared in the spin-off series Torchwood in the episode "Cyberwoman". They would later return to the new series in the 2008 Christmas Special "The Next Doctor", introducing two new types of cyberman; the Cyber-Shades and the Cyber-King.  

[[Marlborough]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wiltshire

Marlborough is a town in Wiltshire, England, United Kingdom. It is the home of a famous school, Marlborough College. Other notable schools include St. John's Academy and St. Peter's Primary School.

The Dukes of Marlborough take their name from the town, but their seat in near Oxford. 

[[Anatidae]]

CATEGORIES: Anatidae

The anatidae are the biological family of birds that includes the ducks, geese and swans.

These birds are common and widespread, and live in or near water. The family has a cosmopolitan distribution, on all the world's continents except Antarctica and on most of the world's islands and island groups.

These are birds that are adapted for swimming, floating on the water surface, and in some cases diving. The family has about 146 species in 40 genera. They are usually herbivorous, and are monogamous breeders. A number of species do annual migrations. A few species have been domesticated for agriculture, and many others are hunted for food and recreation. Five species have become extinct since 1600, and others are close to extinction.

[[Anatinae]]

CATEGORIES: Anatidae

The Anatinae is a subfamily of the family Anatidae that including swans, geese and ducks.

They are the dabbling ducks. They feed mainly at the surface rather than by diving. The subfamily contains only the dabbling ducks and one relative, the extinct moa-nalos, land ducks which lived on some Hawaiian islands.

[[High-Definition Multimedia Interface]]

CATEGORIES: Audio technology, Display technology

The High-Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI) is an audio/video interface for transmitting uncompressed digital data.  The main use of an HDMI cable is to connect components such as a DVD player to a High-definition television (HDTV).  HDMI is the uncompressed, all-digital standard used for High-Definition (HD) quality for consumer electronics and PC products using a single cable.  It transmits digital video, multi-channel surround sound, and control data through a single cable. It replaces up to eleven older cables with a single connection. It uses the same technology as DVI but is more commonly used, especially for consumer electronics and laptops.

