[[Judgment (law)]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

In law, a judgment is a decision of a court regarding the rights and liabilities of parties in a legal action or proceeding. Judgments also generally provide the court's explanation of why it has chosen to make a particular decision.

The phrase "reasons for judgment" is often used interchangeably with "judgment." The former refers to the court's reasons for arriving at the judgment it did. The latter refers to the final court order. a judgement, whether by a court or a tribunal, is the final part of a court case. The judgement is also called a legal decision.

[[Case law]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

Case law in a legal system are those laws based on previous judicial decisions. This is opposed to decisions based on existing statutes or regulations. In countries using common law, it is generally uncodified meaning there are no collections of legal rules and laws to rely on. Instead they rely on legal precedent. Precedents are previous legal cases that are used as examples for deciding the present case. They are also binding on lower courts where the facts and issues are similar. In countries that use civil law, their laws are codified and there is much less reliance on case law. 

[[Lien]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms, Real estate

A lien (UK or US) is a form of security interest attached to property to secure the payment of a debt to a creditor. A lien is usually a public record. The owner of the property is called the lienee. The creditor or person holding the lien is called the lienor or lien holder.

In the United States, the term lien generally refers to a wide range of legal interests. It includes other forms of mortgage or charge.  In the USA, a lien is a non-possessory security interests meaning the lien holder does not usually possess the property.

In other common law countries, the term lien refers to a very specific type of security interest. The holder of a lien right to retain (but not sell) property until the debt or other obligation is discharged.  In contrast to the usage of the term in the USA, in other countries it refers to a purely possessory form of security interest. When possession of the property is lost, the lien is released.  

[[Lanfranc]]

CATEGORIES: 1000s births, 1080s deaths, Archbishops of Canterbury, Italian Roman Catholics, Monks, Roman Catholic archbishops, People from Pavia

Lanfranc (1005 x 1010 at Pavia — 24 May 1089 at Canterbury) was a cleric, teacher and jurist who became Archbishop of Canterbury under William the Conqueror.

This celebrated Italian jurist gave up his career to become a monk at Bec in Normandy.  In 1070 he became the Archbishop of Canterbury in England. This was the peak of an extraordinary life.

[[Five Nights at Freddy's (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Five Nights at Freddy's (series)

Five Nights at Freddy's is an American media franchise created by Scott Cawthon, which began with the eponymous 2014 video game and has since gained worldwide popularity.

The main video game series consists of nine survival horror games taking place in locations somehow connected to family pizza restaurant Freddy Fazbear’s Pizza. In most games, the player takes on the role of a night-time employee, who must utilise tools such as security cameras, lights, doors, and vents to defend themselves against hostile animatronic characters that inhabit the locations. The series’ canon is revealed through voice recordings, minigames, and easter eggs featured throughout the games.

The franchise also includes spin-off games and other media, including a novel trilogy and an anthology series, comprising an all-encompassing fictional universe. A film adaptation is also planned. Merchandise for the games has been produced, and a horror attraction based on the series was featured in the Adventuredome for Halloween 2016. The series also appeared in the Guinness Book of Records: Gamer's Edition, setting a record for the largest number of sequels released in a year.

[[Security interest]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Finance

A security interest is a legal claim on collateral. The collateral can be real estate, personal property or any asset. Collateral is usually used to secure a loan. 

The borrower is the party who borrows the funds. The lender is the one who lends the money in return for a security interest. The lender can repossess the asset if the borrower fails to repay the loan. The lender can then sell the asset to repay the loan. A loan secured by collateral is called a secured loan (also called a lien). A loan with no collateral (such as a credit card) is an unsecured loan. There is nothing for the lender to repossess.

[[William Benjamin Carpenter]]

CATEGORIES: 1813 births, 1885 deaths, English biologists, English physicians, Physiologists, Unitarians

William Benjamin Carpenter MD MRCS CB FRS (29 October 1813 – 19 November 1885) was an English physician, invertebrate zoologist and physiologist. He was instrumental in the early stages of the unified University of London.

Carpenter was born on 29 Oct 1813 in Exeter, the eldest son of Dr Lant Carpenter, an important Unitarian preacher who influenced a "rising generation of Unitarian intellectuals". From his father, Carpenter inherited a belief in the essential lawfulness of the creation: this meant that natural causes were the explanation of the world as we find it. William embraced this "naturalistic cosmogeny" as his starting point.

Although qualified medically, he was best known for his work on marine zoology, notably the lower organisms such as Foraminifera and crinoids. These researches gave an impetus to deep-sea exploration, such as the 1868 oceanographic survey with HMS Lightning and later the more famous Challenger Expedition.

In the long term, however, he has become known as a founder of idea of the adaptive unconscious. He observed that the human perceptual system almost completely operates outside of conscious awareness. These same observations were also made by Hermann Helmholtz. Perhaps because these views were in conflict with the theories of Descartes, they were neglected for a hundred years. Carpenter noticed that the more he studied the mechanism of thought, the more clear it became that it operates largely outside awareness. He noticed that the unconscious prejudices can be stronger than conscious thought and that they are more dangerous since they happen outside of conscious.

He also noticed that emotional reactions can occur outside of conscious until attention is drawn to them:

He also asserted both the freedom of the will and the existence of the ego.

In the popular mind, he was perhaps better nown for his work against alcoholism, for which he won a prize of 100 guineas. It was one of the first temperance books.

In 1856 Carpenter became Registrar of the University of London, and held the office for twenty-three years. He was made a Companion of the Order of the Bath.

[[Particle detector]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Subatomic particles

A particle detector, also known as a radiation detector, is a device used to detect, track, and/or identify high-energy particles. These particles can be made by nuclear decay, cosmic radiation, or reactions in a particle accelerator. Particle detectors are used in particle physics, nuclear physics, and nuclear engineering. Modern detectors are also used as calorimeters to measure the energy of radiation. They can measure other things, such as the momentum, spin, or charge of the particles.

[[Civil and political rights]]

CATEGORIES: International law, Legal terms

In international law, civil and political rights are those rights a person has over their own autonomy (civil) and their right to have a part in their government (political). Civil and political rights are guaranteed to every person by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).

[[Bad Tölz-Wolfratshausen]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bavaria, Bad Tölz-Wolfratshausen

Bad Tölz-Wolfratshausen (German: Landkreis Bad Tölz Wolfratshausen; West Central Bavarian: Landkroas Bad Däiz-Woifradshausn) is a district in Bavaria, Germany.

[[Hugo Schnars-Alquist]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 births, 1939 deaths, German painters, People from Hamburg

Carl Wilhelm Hugo Schnars-Alquist ( October 29, 1855 -  August 20, 1939) was a German painter who painted scenes of the sea. He was born on October 29, 1855 Hamburg, Germany. His family were merchants and he started working as a merchant himself. Schnars-Alquist was a self-taught painter. In 1886 he was a student of Hans Gude at the Berlin Art Academy. In 1893 he was the German representative for the fine arts at the World's Columbian Exposition. Schnars-Alquist made many sea voyages which taught him how to paint the sea at different Latitudes and from rough sea to calm. He was a member of the jury at the Chicago and Melbourne art exhibitions. He received a Gold medal at Melbourne. Schnars-Alquist was a member of the Hamburg Geographical Society. He also belonged to the Institute for Maritime Studies at the University of Berlin. 

[[Pleading]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

Pleading is usually the first step in a lawsuit. This is when parties formally submit their claims and defenses. A complaint is the first pleading filed by a plaintiff which starts the lawsuit. A complaint lists the  relevant allegations of fact which leads to one or more legal causes of action. It also has a prayer for relief and sometimes a statement of damages claimed. This is called an ad quod damnum clause.  In some situations, a complaint is called a petition. In this case the party filing a complaint is called the petitioner and the other party is the respondent.  In equity, sometimes called chancery, the initial pleading may be called either a petition or a bill of complaint in chancery.

[[Complaint]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

In legal terminology, a complaint is any formal legal document that establishes the facts and legal reasons for a lawsuit. A complaint must list the reasons for the plaintiff's case, and it must ask for a specific legal remedy. Once a complaint is filed with the court a summons (an order from the court) is notifies the defendant a lawsuit has been filed against them. Once a defendant receives notice of a complaint, they must reply within a specified period of time with an answer. Complaints are pleadings that must be written carefully to properly state the facts and legal basis for the claim. Usually this requires the help of an attorney.

In some jurisdictions, specific types of criminal cases may also be started by the filing of a complaint. This is also called a criminal complaint or felony complaint. All criminal cases are prosecuted in the name of the governmental authority. This is the same authority whose criminal laws were broken and who enforces criminal statutes. The government is sometimes called the state, the People or the Crown (in Commonwealth realms). In the United States, the complaint is often associated with misdemeanor charges presented by the prosecutor without the grand jury process. In most US jurisdictions, the document presented to and authorized by a grand jury is called an indictment.

[[Vitamin B12]]

CATEGORIES: B vitamins, Organometallic chemistry

Vitamin B12 (or vitamin B-12) is also called cobalamin. It has a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood. It is one of the eight B vitamins. 

B12 is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body, especially DNA synthesis and regulation, but also fatty acid and amino acid metabolism. Fungi, plants and animals (including humans) cannot produce vitamin B12. Only bacteria and archaea have enzymes for its synthesis, although animals can convert it to the version they need. 

Many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis. It is produced by some of the gut flora of herbivores. Carnivores, of course, eat herbivores. Also algae and plants get it from symbiosis. So, by one route or another, animals must get vitamin B12 from bacteria (and archaea).

The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin. It can be produced industrially only by bacterial fermentation-synthesis.

Vitamin B12 is a group of chemically related compounds, all of which have vitamin activity. It contains the biochemically rare element cobalt sitting in the center of a ring called a corrin ring. In the human body it is converted to the human physiological forms.

Vitamin B12 was discovered by its relationship to pernicious anemia, which is an autoimmune disease. Because an "intrinsic factor" is needed for B12 to be absorbed, its lack causes a vitamin B12 deficiency. Many other kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency have since been found.

[[Louis Agassiz]]

CATEGORIES: Swiss biologists, American zoologists, American geologists

Jean Louis Rodolphe Agassiz (May 28, 1807 – December 14, 1873) was a Swiss-born and European-trained biologist and geologist. His work on natural history in Europe and the Americas was important.

His reputation now is less good, because he fought against the theory of evolution, and held wrong ideas about human races. He thought the different human races were of different origins. This idea is called "polygenism". Darwin's comment at the end is interesting:

After visiting Harvard University in mid-career, he emigrated to the U.S. in 1847 and became a professor of zoology and geology at Harvard. He founded its Museum of Comparative Zoology.

Agassiz made extensive contributions to ichthyology (including extinct species). He founded glaciology, the study of ice fields and ice ages.

[[Maps.me]]

CATEGORIES: Software

MAPS.ME (formerly named MapsWithMe) is a mobile app for Android, iOS and BlackBerry that provides offline maps using OpenStreetMap data. In November 2014 it was acquired by Mail.Ru Group and became part of its My.com brand. In September 2015 the app was open sourced. MapsWithMe was created by Yury Melnichek, Alexander Borsuk and Viktor Govako.

[[Cruachan Power Station]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 establishments in the United Kingdom, Dams, 20th century establishments in Scotland

The Cruachan Power Station (also known as the Cruachan Dam) is a pumped-storage hydroelectric power station in Argyll and Bute, Scotland. The turbine hall is located inside Ben Cruachan. Water is pumped between Cruachan Reservoir to Loch Awe, a height difference of 396. It is one of only four pumped storage power stations in the UK. It is capable of providing a black start capability to the National Grid.

Construction began in 1959 at the same time as the Hunterston A nuclear power station in Ayrshire. It was completed in 1965. Cruachan uses cheap off-peak electricity generated at night to pump water to the higher reservoir. It can then be released during the day to provide power as necessary. The power station is open to visitors. Around 50,000 tourists visit it each year.

[[Steppe Geoglyphs]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Kazakhstan

The Steppe Geoglyphs are a number of Neolithic earth constructions in  the Turgay Trough area of Turgai in northern Kazakhstan.  There are at least 260 of these earthworks.

Many  or all of them are smaller earthworks  (mounds, trenches and ramparts) arranged with each other to make geometric and other shapes (composite figures).   These shapes are squares, rings and three others.  The composite figures range from  slightly under 90 m in length to over 400 m in diameter.

Besides being made of earth dug out and piled up, some of the geoglyphs are made by placing stones next to each other. 

Some of the large shapes have been given names, including Bestamskoe Ring, Ushtogaysky (or Ushtogay) Square, Turgay triradial swastika, Large cross Ashtasti, Ekedyn cross, Ashutasti ring, Kyzyloba line, Koga cross, and Shili square. 

Optical dating (optically stimulated luminescence)  was used to get a date for these structures. The results indicate that they date between eight and one thousand years ago. 

The earthworks were discovered in 2007 by Dimitriy Dey.  He found them when he was looking at Google Earth. He had been looking for pyramids or similar structures in Kazakhstan. The geoglyphs were first reported to the scientific community in 2014.

Road construction in 2013 damaged one of the structures. 

[[Right to a fair trial]]

CATEGORIES: Law

The right to  fair trial is an essential right in all countries respecting the rule of law. A trial in these countries that is considered unfair will typically be restarted, or its verdict thrown out. Some of the rights that make a trial fair are explicitly proclaimed in Article 10 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They are clearly stated in the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution. They are also stated in Article 6 of the European Convention of Human Rights, and in Article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, as well as numerous other constitutions and declarations throughout the world. There is no binding international law that defines what is or is not a fair trial. For example, the right to a jury trial and other important procedures vary from nation to nation.

[[Due process]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms, International law

Due process is the legal requirement that the government must respect all legal rights that are owed to a person. Due process balances the power of law of the land and protects the individual person from it. When a government harms a person without following the exact course of the law, this is a due process violation, which offends the rule of law.

[[Saskia Post]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2020 deaths, Actors from California, Actors from Melbourne, Australian movie actors, Australian stage actors, Australian television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Australia, Deaths from cardiac arrest

Saskia Post (1 January 1961 – 16 March 2020) was American-born Australian actress. She is best known for her leading role in the 1986 movie, Dogs in Space, with Michael Hutchence. 

Post also acted in the 1985 AFI Award winning movie, Bliss and in the 1991 movie Proof. It was chosen as "Best Film" at the 1991 AFI Awards. 

[[Roosevelt Island Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in New York City, Queens (New York City), Buildings and structures in Manhattan

The Roosevelt Island Bridge is a bridge in New York. It is a lift bridge. It connects Roosevelt Island in Manhattan to Astoria in Queens. It crosses the East Channel of the East River.  The bridge is the only route to the island for vehicles and foot traffic, except for public transportation.

[[List of World Heritage Sites in Chile]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in South America, Chile, Lists of World Heritage sites, South America-related lists

The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage Sites are places of importance to cultural or natural heritage. Below is the list of sites in Chile.

[[The Mighty Mighty Bosstones]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American punk bands, American rock bands, Musical groups established in 1983, Musical groups from Massachusetts, 1983 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Massachusetts, 2003 disestablishments in the United States, Musical groups established in 2007, Musical groups disestablished in 2003, 2007 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Massachusetts, 2000s disestablishments in Massachusetts

The Mighty Mighty Bosstones (informally known as The Bosstones) are an American ska punk band from Boston, Massachusetts which formed in 1983. The Bosstones are widely credited as one of the originators of the genre of ska punk, a style which mixes the rhythms of ska music with the fast tempo and distortion of punk rock and hardcore punk.

First becoming notable in the underground music scene, the Bosstones steadily grew in popularity throughout the mid-1990s. Their fourth album, 1994's Question the Answers, sold over 500,000 copies and became a gold record. In 1995, they appeared in the hit movie Clueless and in 1997, the band released their most successful album, Let's Face It, which sold over one million copies and spawned the hit single "The Impression That I Get", which charted at #1 on the Billboard Modern Rock Songs and entered the top 20 in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia. Although none of the Bosstones' future albums or singles were able to meet with the same kind of success, the band has kept a loyal following and continue to tour and record.

The Bosstones briefly disbanded in 2003, though reunited in 2007 to continue touring and recording. The band has released nine studio albums, three EPs and a live album.

[[Jämtkraft Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Stadiums in Sweden, 2007 establishments in Sweden

Jämtkraft Arena is an association football stadium in the town of Östersund in Sweden. It was opened on 13 July 2007. Among the home teams are Östersunds FK and Östersunds DFF.

[[Nya parken]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 establishments in Sweden, Stadiums in Sweden, Football stadiums in Sweden, Norrköping

Nya parken is a sports ground in the town of Norrköping int Sweden. It was opened in 1903 as Norrköpings idrottspark. IFK Norrköping, IK Sleipner and IF Sylvia play their soccer home games there. Games were also played there during the 1958 FIFA World Cup and the 1992 UEFA European Championship

[[Norrporten Arena]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 establishments in Sweden, Stadiums in Sweden, Football stadiums in Sweden, Sundsvall

Norrporten Arena  is a sports ground in the town of Sundsvall in Sweden. It was opened as Sundsvalls idrottspark on 6 August 1903 as. It is currently used mostly for association football games. It is the home ground for GIF Sundsvall.

[[Old English poetry]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry, English literature

The earliest known English poem is a hymn on the creation. Bede says this was by Cædmon (flourished 658–680). He was, according to legend, an illiterate herdsman who produced poetry at a monastery at Whitby. This is probably the earliest written Anglo-Saxon poetry we have.

Much of the poetry of the period is difficult to date, or even to arrange chronologically. Estimates for the date of the great epic Beowulf range from AD 608 through to AD 1000, and there has never been agreement.  

It is possible to identify some key moments. The Dream of the Rood was written before about AD 700, when parts were carved in runes on the Ruthwell Cross.  Some poems on historical events, such as The Battle of Brunanburh (937) and The Battle of Maldon (991), seem to have been written shortly after the events, so they can be dated reasonably precisely.

Anglo-Saxon poetry is known by the manuscripts in which it survives.  The most important manuscripts are from the late 10th and early 11th centuries. They are known as the Cædmon manuscript, the Vercelli Book, the Exeter Book, and the Beowulf manuscript.

Beowulf is the only heroic epic to have survived in its entirety, but fragments of others show that it was not unique in its time.  Other genres include much religious verse, from devotional works to biblical paraphrase. 

With one notable exception (the so-called Rhyming Poem), Anglo-Saxon poetry depends on alliteration for its structure. Any rhyme included is just ornamental.

[[Jesus piece (jewelry)]]

A Jesus piece is a spiritual or religious piece of jewelry which shows the face of Jesus.  

Jesus pieces are popular in the Hip-Hop community. Many Hip-Hop artists and celebrities like The Notorious B.I.G., Jay-Z, and Kanye West often wear Jesus pieces, and have them decorated with rare or expensive gems (jewels). 

Less expensive Jesus diamond pieces are also sold.  They are made of things like wood or inexpensive metals.

[[Unfaithful (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, 2000s ballads, Pop ballads, Rhythm and blues ballads, Rihanna songs

"Unfaithful" is a song by Barbadian singer Rihanna from her second studio album A Girl like Me (2006). It was written by Shaffer "Ne-Yo" Smith with the song's producers StarGate. The song was released by Def Jam Recordings on May 2, 2006, as the second single from the album. It is a pop and R&B song that is about cheating, it was also different because it was the first ballad Rihanna had released.

[[Jimmy Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in Missouri, Montreal Canadiens players, St. Louis Blues players, Sportspeople from Toronto

James Wilfred "Jimmy" Roberts (April 9, 1940 – October 23, 2015) was a Canadian ice hockey defenceman and forward. He went by both the nicknames of Jimmy and Jim. Roberts played for the Montreal Canadiens and for the St. Louis Blues. He won two Stanley Cups during his career. He retired in 1978 after a twenty year career.

Roberts died on October 23, 2015 of cancer in St. Louis, Missouri at the age of 75.

[[Philip French]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British critics, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English journalists, Movie critics, Writers from Liverpool

Philip Neville French OBE (28 August 1933 – 27 October 2015) was a British movie critic and former radio producer. French began his career in journalism in the late 1950s, before becoming a BBC Radio producer, and later a movie critic.

He began writing for The Observer in 1963, and continued to write criticism regularly there until his retirement in 2013.

French was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire in December 2012. He died of a heart attack at the age of 82.

[[Nicolás Fuentes]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Deaths from diabetes, Peruvian footballers, People from Lima

Nicolás Fuentes Fuentes (20 February 1941 – 28 October 2015) was a Peruvian football player. Fuentes made 17 appearances for the Peru national football team from 1965 to 1971, including playing at the 1970 FIFA World Cup.

Fuentes died from respiratory failure caused by diabetes in Lima, Peru, aged 74.

[[Ernesto Boy Herrera]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Filipino politicians, Civil servants

Ernesto Boy Herrera (September 11, 1942 – October 29, 2015) was a Filipino politician. Herrera was born in Samboan, Cebu, in September 11, 1942.

He served as Senator of the Philippines. He has been a trade union leader, an advocate of law and order, and a legislator in the 8th, 9th and 10th Congresses. He served as the General Secretary of the Trade Union of Congress of the Philippines from 1983 until his death in 2015.

Herrera died from cardiac arrest in Makati, Philippines, aged 73.

[[Willis Carto]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, American activists, American journalists, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Holocaust deniers, People from Fort Wayne, Indiana, Writers from Indiana

Willis Allison Carto (July 17, 1926 – October 26, 2015) was a known American figure on the American far right.  He called himself aJeffersonian and populist, but was known for his promotion of conspiracy theories and Holocaust denial.

[[Superstition (song)]]

CATEGORIES: R&B songs, 1970s songs

"Superstition" is a funk and R&B ballad from Stevie Wonder. The song hit #1 on Billboard Hot 100 in January 1973. It also hit #1 on the U.S. soul singles chart.

The song advises not to believe in theories such as  superstitions and the song references how adults blame children for the bad luck they have faced - thirteen month old baby broke the looking glass. The song became Stevie's signature song and is his most performed live. On the charts it was succeeded by Timmy Thomas's Why Can't We Live Together

The song has been covered by The Jackson 5, Jeff Beck, Stevie Ray Vaughan and JoJo, among others.

[[Ants Antson]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, 1964 Winter Olympics, 1968 Winter Olympics, Estonian sportspeople, People from Tallinn, Soviet Olympic gold medalists, Speed skaters

Ants Antson (11 November 1938 – 31 October 2015) was an Estonian speed skater. He competed for the Soviet Union. 

Antson had his best year in 1964, when he became European Allround Champion on the 1500 m at the 1964 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck, and set a new world record on the 3000 m. For his achievements that year, he received the Oscar Mathisen Award. He retired after the 1968 Winter Olympics.

[[Västanfors IF]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 establishments in Europe, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Floorball clubs in Sweden, Swedish football clubs, 1910s establishments in Sweden

Västanfors IF is a sports club in the town of Fagersta in Sweden. The club is nicknamed Västanfläkt ("Western Wind").

The club mainly runs bandy, and soccer. It earlier also ran floorball. The team colours are red and white. The club was founded in 1916.

The club has played 32 seasons in the Swedish top division. It won the Swedish national championship in 1954. The club played in the Swedish bandy top division since 2007. In 2012 the club was relegated to Division 1 in 2012.

The club also ran floorball acticity during the 1980s. The women's floorball team won the Swedish national championship in 1983 and 1985 and also won a silver medal in 1984.

[[Vertical-lift bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridge types

A vertical-lift bridge or lift bridge is a type of movable bridge in which a span rises vertically while remaining parallel with the road surface.

The vertical lift offers several benefits over other movable bridges such as the bascule and swing-span bridge. They are generally easier to design and easier to build. They usually cost less to build for longer moveable spans. The counterweights in a vertical lift bridges are only required to be equal to the weight of the deck. Bascule bridge counterweights must weigh several times as much as the span being lifted.  As a result, heavier materials can be used in the deck, and so this type of bridge is especially suited for heavy railroad use.

Although most vertical-lift bridges use towers, each with counterweights. Some use hydraulic jacks located below the deck. An example is the 52 span bridge at St Paul Avenue in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. Another design used balance beams to lift the deck with pivoting bascules located on the top of the lift towers. An example of this kind is the La Salle Street Bridge in Chicago, Illinois, USA.

The biggest disadvantage to the vertical-lift bridge is the height restriction for ships passing under it. This is a result of the deck remaining suspended above the water.

[[Rachel Platten]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American pop singers, Musicians from Manhattan, Singers from Massachusetts, Singer-songwriters from New York City, People from Newton, Massachusetts

Rachel Ashley Platten (born May 20, 1981) is an American singer-songwriter. She is best known for her 2015 single "Fight Song". The song was successful worldwide, including in the United States, Australia and Canada.

Platten was born on Manhattan, New York City. She grew up in Newton, Massachusetts.

[[Västerstrands AIK]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 establishments in Europe, Bandy clubs in Sweden, Karlstad, 1940s establishments in Sweden

Västerstrands AIK is a sports club in Karlstad, Sweden. The club was founded on 11 October 1940. It only runs a women's bandy team.

The women's bandy team has won the Swedish national championship in the years of 1991, 1992, 1994, 1997, 2001, and 2002. It has also been runner-up several times. The team colours are black and yellow.

[[Mel Daniels]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Indiana Pacers players, Sportspeople from Detroit, Michigan, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

Melvin Joe Daniels (July 20, 1944 – October 30, 2015) was an American professional basketball player. He played in the American Basketball Association (ABA) for the Minnesota Muskies, Indiana Pacers, and Memphis Sounds, and in the National Basketball Association for the New York Nets. Daniels was a two-time ABA Most Valuable Player and a seven-time ABA All-Star. He was enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2012.

Daniels died on October 30, 2015, at the age of 71. He had recently undergone heart surgery.

[[IFK Luleå]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 establishments in Sweden, Luleå, Swedish football clubs

IFK Luleå is an sports club in the town of Luleå in Sweden. It was founded on 20 September 1900. The club played in the Swedish men's top association football top division in 1971.

[[IFK Holmsund]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 establishments in Sweden, Swedish football clubs

IFK Holmsund is a sports club Holmsund in Sweden. It was founded on 8 June in 1923 The men's soccer team plays its home games at Kamratvallen. The club participated in the Swedish men's soccer top division in 1967.

[[Kogalymavia Flight 9268]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 aviation disasters, 21st century in Egypt, Islamic State, Islamic terrorist attacks, Terrorist incidents in 2015, 2015 in Africa

Kogalymavia Flight 9268 (KGL 9268/7K9268) was an international chartered passenger flight. On 31 October 2015, it left Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt flying to Saint Petersburg, Russia. It crashed in the Sinai desert 23 minutes after it took off. It reached an altitude of 31,000 ft (9,400 m) when it disappeared from radar. The aircraft, an Airbus A321-231, was carrying 217 passengers and seven crew members. As well as the crew, 214 of those aboard were Russian. The remaining three were Ukrainian, mostly tourists.

All 224 people were killed. The crash became the deadliest in Egyptian history.

[[No Gravity (Shontelle album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Dance albums, R&B albums

Carl Sturken (exec.)

No Gravity is the second studio album by Barbadian recording artist Shontelle, released on September 21, 2010 by SRC Records.

[[Växjö Lakers HC]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey teams in Sweden, Växjö, 1997 establishments in Sweden

The Växjö Lakers HC is an ice hockey club in the town of Växjö in Sweden. It was established in 1997. The club won the Swedish national championship in 2015, 2018 and 2021.

[[Fishers, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indiana

Fishers is a city in the state of Indiana, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 76,794.

[[Law of the land]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

The phrase law of the land (Latin lex terrae) is a legal term. It means all of the laws in force within a country or region. The term was first used in the Magna Carta. It was used to mean the laws of the kingdom. This was distinct from Roman law or civil law. In the United States, the Constitution declares it is the "supreme law of the land." It is the same as due process of law as justified by the Constitution.

[[1980 New Orleans Saints season]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 in sports, 1980 in the United States, National Football League seasons, New Orleans Saints, 1980s in Louisiana, 20th century in New Orleans, Louisiana

The 1980 New Orleans Saints season was the team's 14th season in the National Football League. 

[[Legal process]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

Legal process (or sometimes "process"), are the proceedings in any civil lawsuit or criminal prosecution. It also describes the formal notice or writ used by a court to exercise jurisdiction over a person or property. This process is usually "served" upon a party, to require that party to come to court. It may take the form of a summons, mandate, subpoena, warrant, or other written order issued by a court.

[[Accounting software]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Software

Accounting software is a program that can run on a computer to track the total value of a company. Accounting software can be downloaded to a computer or can be used through a browser window by logging into a website.

Before computers all accounting information was stored in books called "ledgers". A general ledger was the book where the accountant wrote down all payments that came into a company and all payments that were made. A common term for keeping track of this information is called "keeping the books". A bookkeeper is another term for an accountant, but can sometimes means a person who does accounting but maybe doesn't have as much formal education as an accountant.

Accounting software can automate many of the more menial tasks of accounting. For example, many accounting software companies automatically pull in bank information. Instead of having to put in the payments made and cashed received, the program does it for you.

[[Maine Mendoza]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Filipino actors, 1995 births, Television presenters

Nicomaine Dei Capili Mendoza, popularly known as Maine Mendoza or Yaya Dub, is a Filipina actress, comedienne, internet celebrity, host, and model.

Mendoza was discovered because of her viral Dubsmash Videos in the internet. In the noontime show Eat Bulaga's Kalyeserye, she was cast as Yaya Dub, the maid of Grandma Nidora (portrayed by actor Wally Bayola). Her accidental pairing to actor Alden Richards led to the formation of the love team AlDub.

[[Ölmbrotorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Ölmbrotorp is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 548 people lived there.

[[Odensbacken]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Odensbacken is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,374 people lived there.

[[Latorpsbruk]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Latorpsbruk is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 597 people lived there.

[[Norra Bro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Norra Bro is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 687 people lived there.

[[Stora Mellösa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Stora Mellösa is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 776 people lived there.

[[Askersby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Askersby is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 243 people lived there.

[[Ekeby-Almby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Ekeby-Almby is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,271 people lived there.

[[Hampetorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Hampetorp is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 297 people lived there.

[[Kilsmo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Kilsmo is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 263 people lived there.

[[Vintrosa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Vintrosa is a locality in Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 1,343 people lived there.

[[Lanna]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Lanna is a locality in both Lekeberg Municipality and Örebro Municipality in Örebro County in Sweden. In 2010, 537 people lived there.

[[Tower house]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures

A tower house is a tower that has been built for two purposes: First, it has been built so that it is easy to defend, and secondly, it serves as living quarters. Tower houses first appeared in the Middle Ages, in mountainous or limited access areas. They were built there to both command and defend strategic points with a small force. At the same time, they were also used as an aristocrat's residence. Very often, a castle town was constructed around these houses.

[[Sceptrum Brandenburgicum]]

CATEGORIES: Former constellations, 1688 establishments

Sceptrum Brandenburgicum (or Sceptrum Brandenburgium – Latin for scepter of Brandenburg) was a constellation. It was created in 1688 by Gottfried Kirch, astronomer of the Prussian Royal Society of Sciences. It represented the scepter (a symbol of royalty or power) used by the royal family of the Brandenburgs. It was located west of the constellation of Lepus. The constellation was quickly forgotten and is not official any more. It led to a star later being called Sceptrum. That star is now called 53 Eridani.

[[Judge Rinder]]

CATEGORIES: British reality television series, 2014 television series debuts, 2010s establishments in the United Kingdom, English-language television programs

Judge Rinder is a British reality television show. It has aired daily on ITV from 11 August 2014. Robert Rinder is the judge of the show. He judges cases about arguments that are usually about money, but it can be different. The program takes place in a small-claims courtroom. The show has the same format as American court shows like Judge Judy and Judge Mathis. A case takes an hour to film. It is edited down to fit a number of cases into the given time slot.

[[Täby Church]]

CATEGORIES: Church of Sweden churches

Täby Church (Täby kyrka) is a medieval church in Täby Municipality in Sweden. It was belongs to the Church of Sweden and was built during the 13th century. On its walls and ceilings are paintings by Albertus Pictor.

[[Deaths in November 2015]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 deaths, November 2015 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in November 2015. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".

[[Günter Schabowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Germany, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in Berlin, German journalists, Leaders of East Germany, Members of the Volkskammer, Politicians from Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Politicians of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany

Günter Schabowski (4 January 1929 – 1 November 2015) was an East German journalist and politician. He was an official of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED), the ruling party during most of the existence of the German Democratic Republic.

Schabowski gained worldwide fame in November 1989 when he improvised a slightly mistaken answer to a press conference question, raising popular expectations so rapidly that massive crowds gathered the same night at the Berlin Wall, forcing its opening after 28 years.

Schabowski died from complications of a stroke in Berlin, aged 86.

[[Qubo]]

CATEGORIES: Television channels, 2006 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in the United States

Qubo (stylized as qubo) was an American multiplatform children's entertainment service. It is operated by Ion Media Networks. It includes a 24-hour digital television channel/subchannel, a video on demand service, and a weekly programming block on parent network Ion Television under the name "Qubo Kids Corner". Today, with the "Qubo Kids Corner

Qubo was first developed in September 2006. It was developed by Ion Media Networks, Corus Entertainment, Scholastic Corporation, Classic Media, and NBCUniversal. It was to be a "building block for kids" (as stated by president Rick Rodriquez). The brand would have programming blocks on NBC, Telemundo, and Ion Television, a video on demand service, a website, and a 24-hour standalone channel carried as a digital subchannel on Ion's local affiliates.

[[Hans Modrow]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Former members of the German Bundestag, Former MEPs, German politicians of the Left Party, Members of the Volkskammer, MEPs for Germany, People from former German territories, Politicians of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany, Prime Ministers of East Germany

Hans Modrow (ˈhans ˈmoːdʁo; born 27 January 1928) is a German politician. He was best known as the last communist premier of East Germany. He is the honorary Chairman of the Left Party. After the German reunification, Modrow served as a member of the European Parliament (1999–2004) and of the Bundestag.

[[Tabitha St. Germain]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Canadian comedians, Canadian actors, Canadian voice actors, Canadian singers, Living people, People from Vancouver, Actors from Boston, Massachusetts

Tabitha St. Germain (born October 30, 1964), formerly known as Paulina Gillis Germain, Tabitha, or Kitanou St. Germain, is an American, Canadian Actress, Singer, Voice actress, and Comedienne. She is known for her voice roles in many TV shows, but most of all is My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic for Rarity, Princess Luna, Granny Smith, and Derpy Hooves.

[[Gus Savage]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, United States representatives from Illinois, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, People from Olympia Fields, Illinois, US Democratic Party politicians

Augustus Alexander "Gus" Savage (October 30, 1925 – October 31, 2015) was an American politician. He was a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives from Illinois. He served as a representative from 1981 through 1993. Savage was born in Detroit, Michigan.

Savage died in Olympia Fields, Illinois at the age of 90.

[[Frederick Muhlenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1750 births, 1801 deaths, Speakers of the United States House of Representatives, United States representatives from Pennsylvania, Deans of the United States House of Representatives, 18th-century American politicians

Frederick Augustus Conrad Muhlenberg (ˈ; January 1, 1750 – June 4, 1801) was an American minister and politician.

He was the first Speaker of the United States House of Representatives serving from 1793 through 1795. He was a delegate to the Pennsylvania state constitutional convention and a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Pennsylvania and a Lutheran pastor by profession. Muhlenberg was born in Trappe, Pennsylvania.

The claim that Muhlenberg, as House Speaker, prevented German from becoming an official language of the United States is false.

[[My Name is Earl]]

CATEGORIES: English-language television programs, 2005 American television series debuts, 2009 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, American sitcoms, NBC network shows, Emmy Award winning programs

My Name Is Earl is an American sitcom. It was broadcast from September 20, 2005, to May 14, 2009 and was created by Greg Garcia. The series was produced by 20th Century Fox Television. In the United States, it is broadcast on the NBC television network. The series ended on May 14, 2009 after running for four seasons. Season four had ended with the caption 'To Be Continued'. The series' producer, 20th Century Fox Television, approached the Fox networks to continue the series.

[[Abner J. Mikva]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Chicago, Deaths from bladder cancer, Deaths from COPD, American judges, American lawyers, Jewish American academics, Jewish American politicians, Jewish judges, Jewish lawyers, Politicians from Chicago, Businesspeople from Chicago, Businesspeople from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Politicians from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, United States representatives from Illinois, University of Chicago alumni, US Democratic Party politicians

Abner Joseph Mikva (January 21, 1926 – July 4, 2016) was an American judge, lawyer, academic and politician. He was a Democrat and of Jewish descent. He was known by many as an important liberal figure in Chicago and American politics. In later years, he was known for being a mentor to Barack Obama.

Mikva served as a U.S. Representative representing Illinois from 1969 through 1979. He was also a federal judge appointed by Jimmy Carter. He served as judge from 1979 through 1994. He later served as the White House Counsel for Bill Clinton serving from 1994 through 1995. He has also served as a law professor at Northwestern University, the University of Chicago, and the University of Illinois.

Mikva was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. Mikva studied at the University of Chicago. He received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama on November 24, 2014. Mikva was married to Zorita Wise from 1948 until his death in 2016. They had three daughters.

Mikva died under hospice care in Chicago, Illinois from complications of bladder cancer on July 4, 2016, aged 90. He was also suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease at the time of his death.

[[Nonsan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Nonsan is a city in Chungnam-do (South Chungcheong Province), South Korea. It is located at 36°12′N 127°5′E.

The population of Nonsan is 128,077.  There are 55,451 households in the city.

Nonsan has a train station.  Local, national, and express (KTX) trains stop there.  The trains connect Nonsan to all big cities in the country. There are also bus stations in Nonsan.  Some busses are for local service; others are for regional and for national service. An expressway connects the city to Daejeon and other cities.

The economy of Nonsan includes farming, fishing, Konyang University, an army training center, and food processing companies.   Farming is the most important of these.

Rice is the most important crop. Other important crops include strawberries, ginseng, napa cabbage, watermelons, and Korean pears. Nonsan is known as the "strawberry capital of Korea," and holds a strawberry festival each year. 

Attractions in greater Nonsan include Gwanchoksa (a Buddhist temple with a large statue of a standing Buddha), Baekje Military Museum, Tapjeong Reservoir, the ruins of Noseong Sanseong (Fortress), and Donam Academy, one of the nine neo-Confucian seowons from the Joseon Dynasty.   There is also Nonsan Sunshine Land, south of the city proper.  This is where the television series Mr. Sunshine was filmed.  It is now a re-created 1900s urban setting that tourists can visit

[[Jaws (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 books, 20th century American novels, New York in fiction, Sharks

Jaws is a 1974 American novel by Peter Benchley. It is about a great white shark that eats several people in the ocean near a small town in Long Island, New York. Three men set out on a boat to hunt and kill the shark. Benchley was partly inspired by the adventures of a shark fisherman named Frank Mundus.

Millions of copies of the novel were sold. In 1975, a movie based on the book, also called Jaws, was released. The movie was directed by Steven Spielberg.

[[Fisherman]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations, Fishing

A fisherman or fisher is a person who catches fish, and sometimes other animals that live in water. Catching fish is known as fishing. There are about 38 million fishermen. Fishermen usually catch fish so that they can sell the fish to make money, or so that they can eat the fish. Some fishermen do not fish for money or food, and instead fish as a hobby.

[[The Taste]]

CATEGORIES: Reality television series, English-language television programs

The Taste was an American cooking reality television series on ABC. It aired from January 22, 2013, through January 22, 2015. It starred Anthony Bourdain, Ludo Lefebvre, Marcus Samuelsson, and Nigella Lawson. On May 7, 2015, ABC cancelled The Taste after three seasons.

[[Nadine Velazquez]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, American movie actors, American television actors, Models from Chicago

Nadine Velazquez (born November 20, 1978) is an American actress and model. She was born in Chicago. She is best known for her role as Catalina Aruca in the NBC television series My Name Is Earl. She also starred alongside Denzel Washington in The League and Major Crimes.

[[Greg Garcia]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, Writers from Virginia

Gregory Thomas Garcia (born April 4, 1970) is a American television producer and screenwriter. He was born in Arlington County, Virginia. He was the creator and producer of the comedy series, Yes, Dear. He was the creator and executive producer of My Name Is Earl. He also worked for the series Family Matters. He was the consultant in Family Guy. He produced the Fox series Raising Hope. He left that series in 2013.

[[Foundation series]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction, Science fiction books, Isaac Asimov

The ''Foundation'' series is a series of seven science fiction stories written by Isaac Asimov. They follow on from each other. 

[[List of exoplanets]]

CATEGORIES: Exoplanets, Astronomy lists

This is a list of exoplanets.

[[Aske (EP)]]

CATEGORIES: Black metal bands

Aske (Norwegian: ashes) is an extended play by the Norwegian black metal solo project Burzum. The EP was recorded in August of 1992 in Grieg Hall, Bergen, Norway. It was released in March of 1993 through Deathlike Silence Productions.

[[Millionaires' Mile]]

CATEGORIES: Neighborhoods

The Millionaires' Mile,  Millionaire's Mile, Millionaires' Row, Millionaire's Row or Alpha Street is a term referring to exclusive residential neighborhoods of various towns. They are often located alone on a strip such as a riverside or a hilltop drive. They can also be located at a wide town boulevard.

[[Linköpings FC]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments in Europe, Linköping, Swedish football clubs, 2000s establishments in Sweden

Linköpings FC is an association football club in the town of Linköping in Sweden. it was established in 2003 when the Kenty DFF women's association football club decided to merge with the ice hockey club Linköpings HC under the new name Linköpings FC. The club won the Swedish women's association football national championship of 2009.

[[Linköping Arena]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in Sweden, Football stadiums in Sweden, Linköping

The Linköping Arena is an association football stadium in the town of Linköping in Sweden. It was opened in 2013 and has a capacity of 8 500 and hosted four games during the UEFA Women's Euro 2013 tournament. The stadium became home to Linköpings FC women's association football team after that tournament. The name was discussed for a while and the project was named the Arena Linköping before the name was changed to Linköping Arena.

[[Lopez Tonight]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, English-language television programs

Lopez Tonight was an American late night talk show that premiered on November 9, 2009. It was hosted by George Lopez for four days this week until its cancellation on August 12, 2011.

[[Kepler's Laws]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy

Kepler's laws of planetary motion are three laws that describe the motion  of planets around the sun:

Johannes Kepler found these laws, between 1609 and 1619. 

[[DJ Jazzy Jeff]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, American musicians, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Jeffrey Allen Townes (born January 22, 1965), also known as DJ Jazzy Jeff, is a record producer of hip hop and R&B. He is best known for taking part at the beginning of his career with Will Smith as DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince.

DJ Jazzy Jeff graduated from the John Bartram High School in Philadelphia where his name is inscribed as one of the students outstanding.

DJ Jazzy Jeff is not to be confused with MC Jazzy Jeff, which, in fact, filed and won a lawsuit over the name Jazzy Jeff against Jeff Townes when Jive Records signed DJ Jazzy Jeff & the Fresh Prince.

He also participated in the series The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air as Jazz, making an appearance in several chapters.

[[Yes, Dear]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 American television series debuts, 2006 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, American sitcoms, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

Yes, Dear is an American television series that aired from October 2, 2000 to February 15, 2006 on CBS. It starred Anthony Clark, Jean Louisa Kelly, Mike O'Malley and Liza Snyder.

In the US, the repetitions of the series can be seen on Nick at Nite, Nick Jr. (block as part NickMom) and CMT. In Canada, it's on Joytv.

[[Shannon Woodward]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Actors from Phoenix, Arizona, American movie actors, American television actors

Shannon Marie Woodward (born December 17, 1984) is an American actress known for her roles as Sabrina in Raising Hope and Di Di Malloy in The Riches. She was born in Phoenix, Arizona.

[[The Riches]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 American television series debuts, 2008 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, American crime drama television series, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Louisiana in fiction

The Riches is an American television series on FX. It aired from March 12, 2007 to April 29, 2008. It is about a family of a father (Eddie Izzard), mother (Minnie Driver) and their three children as they swap their lives as travelers, crooks and thieves by pretending to be a wealthy family in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

[[Black Mark Productions]]

CATEGORIES: Independent record labels, 1991 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Sweden

Black Mark Productions (founded in 1991) is an independent record label company from Sweden. It has offices in Berlin, Toronto, Stockholm, and New York. The label is known for working with extreme metal bands, including Bathory and Edge of Sanity. The name of the label came from Bathory's album, Under the Sign of the Black Mark.

[[Gregg Palmer]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from San Francisco

Gregg Palmer (born Palmer Edvind Lee; January 25, 1927 – October 31, 2015) was an American television and movie actor. He was known for his roles in Gunsmoke, Death Valley Days, and The Virginian. He guest starred five times on Bonanza, NBC's longest-running western. He was born in San Francisco, California.

Palmer died at the age of 88 in Encino, California from unknown causes.

[[Thomas Blatt]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Holocaust survivors, Jewish American writers, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Polish Jews

Thomas "Toivi" Blatt (born Tomasz Blatt; April 15, 1927 – October 31, 2015) was a Polish-American writer and speaker. At the age of 16, Blatt was one of the few Jewish people to survive an uprising and escape from the Sobibor extermination camp in October 1943. 

Following the World War II he settled in the United States. Blatt later wrote two books about Sobibor. His memoir, From The Ashes of Sobibor (1997), is about his experience in the camp. He also wrote Sobibor, the Forgotten Revolt (1997), a history based on his years of research.

Blatt died at his home in Santa Barbara, California on October 31, 2015 at the age of 88.

[[Spacetoon Plus]]

CATEGORIES: Indonesia, Television channels

Spacetoon Plus is an Indonesian television channel. It specializes in anime and children programs. Spacetoon Group has 3 channels in Indonesia: Spacetoon, Spacetoon 2 and the now-defunct Spacetoon (Indonesia) today.

[[Fellow traveller]]

CATEGORIES: Communism

Fellow travellers were supporters of the Soviet Union who were not members of the Communist Party. 

They were a varied group of western intellectuals, writers and bohemians who declared their sympathies for the Soviet Union at the height of Stalinism and into the 1970s of the 20th century. 

[[The Sands of Mars]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction books

The Sands of Mars is a science fiction novel written by Arthur C. Clarke. It was first published in 1951 and has been reprinted many times.

[[Rottenbach (river)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Thuringia, Rivers of Germany

The Rottenbach is a river that flows through Thuringia, Germany.

[[Lake Chad]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Africa

Lake Chad is a large, shallow, endorheic lake in the African Sahel. It has varied in size over the centuries. 

Lake Chad shrank as much as 95% from about 1963 to 1998, but "the 2007 (satellite) image shows significant improvement over previous years". Lake Chad is economically important. It provides water to over 68 million people in the four countries surrounding it: Chad, Cameroon, Niger, and Nigeria. It is on the edge of the Sahara Desert. It is the largest lake in the Chad Basin, the largest drainage basin in Africa.

Fossils of an important extinct hominid were found in the dried lakebed of Lake Chad. This was Sahelanthropus tchadensis. From evidence at the fossil site in Chad, it is thought to have lived about seven million years ago.

[[Mail.ru Group]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Russia

Mail.Ru Group (London Stock Exchange listed since November 5, 2010) is a Russian Internet company. It was started in 1998 as an e-mail service and went on to become a major corporate figure in the Russian-speaking segment of the Internet. As of 2013, according to comScore, websites owned by Mail.ru collectively had the largest audience in Russia and captured the most screen time. Mail.Ru's sites reach approximately 86% of Russian Internet users on a monthly basis and the company is in the top 5 of largest Internet companies, based on the number of total pages viewed. Mail.ru controls the 3 largest Russian social networking sites.  It operates the second and third most popular Russian social networking sites, Odnoklassniki and Moy Mir, respectively. Mail.ru holds 100% of shares of Russia's most popular social network VK   and minority stakes in Qiwi, formerly OE Investments (15.04%). It also operates two instant messaging networks (Mail.Ru Agent and ICQ), an e-mail service and Internet portal Mail.ru, as well as a number of online games.

[[Millennium Development Goals]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United Nations, Development

The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are the eight  targets of the United Nations. They were decided in 2000. All 189 United Nations member states (there are 193 now), and at least 23 international organizations, said they would try to help achieve the goals by 2015:

Each goal had specific targets, and dates for reaching those targets. To help progress, the G8 finance ministers agreed in June 2005 to provide enough funds to the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the African Development Bank (AfDB) to cancel $40 to $55 billion in debt owed by poor countries. This was to allow them to use resources  for improving health, education and reducing poverty.

Developed countries' aid for the MDGs rose during the period. More than half went for debt relief. Much of the rest went towards natural disaster relief and military aid, instead of development.

[[Tiffany]]

Tiffany (given name) is a feminine given name.

Tiffany might also refer to:

[[Tiffany & Co.]]

CATEGORIES: Jewelry, Shops

[[UEFA Super Cup]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA, 1972 establishments in Europe

The UEFA Super Cup is a match organised by UEFA. It is played every year. The winner of the UEFA Champions League plays against the winner of the UEFA Europa League. It is played in the middle of August.

[[Francine Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American crime victims, People acquitted of murder, 2017 deaths

Francine Hughes (August 17, 1947 – March 22, 2017) is an American woman who suffered domestic abuse from her ex-husband named Mickey Hughes. She ended up killing him by setting fire to his bed on March 9, 1977. Mickey was killed and the house was destroyed in the fire. The story was made into a book and a movie. In No Child of Mine (where 35 year old Linda abused everyone), 35 year old Linda was acting like Mickey who lived with 13 year old Kerry (who didn't do anything wrong) in and for 13 years.

[[Charles B. Rangel]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, United States representatives from New York, Politicians from New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

Charles Bernard "Charlie" Rangel (ˈ; born June 11, 1930) is an American politician. He served as the U.S. Representative for NY.  A member of the Democratic Party, he was the second-longest serving member of the House of Representatives. He served from 1971 to 2017.

Rangel was the first African-American Chair of the influential House Ways and Means Committee. He is also a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus.

[[Andrzej Ciechanowiecki]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Polish philanthropists, Polish historians, Polish educators, Polish artists

Andrew Stanislaus (Andrzej Stanisław) Ciechanowiecki (28 September 1924 – 2 November 2015) was a Polish art historian, philanthropist, art collector, and antique dealer. 

He is the founder of the Ciechanowiecki Foundation at the Royal Castle in Warsaw (1986). He is an Honorary Professor of the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw and a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences. He was honored with the Order of the White Eagle in 1998, Grand Cross of Polonia Restituta, war medals, Gloria Artis Gold Medal and other awards.

Ciechanowiecki died in London at the age of 91.

[[Ahmed Chalabi]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Civil servants, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Iraqi politicians, Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni, University of Chicago alumni

Ahmed Abdel Hadi Chalabi (أحمد عبد الهادي الجلبي‎; 30 October 1944 – 3 November 2015) was an Iraqi politician. He was interim Minister of Oil in Iraq serving from  16 April 2005 to 1 January 2006. He served as Deputy Prime Minister from 1 May 2005 to 20 May 2006. Chalabi failed to win a seat in parliament in the December 2005 elections.

Chalabi died on 3 November 2015 from a heart attack at his home in Kadhimiya, Baghdad, aged 71.

[[We Shall Overcome (Bernie Sanders album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 albums, Bernie Sanders, Folk albums

We Shall Overcome is an album of folk music recorded and released by Bernie Sanders in 1987. It was done when he was mayor of Burlington, Vermont. The album has since been released on iTunes and has attained a new wave of popularity as a result of Sanders' ongoing presidential campaign.

[[Matt Bevin]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American Baptists, Businesspeople from Kentucky, Businesspeople from Denver, Colorado, Businesspeople from New Hampshire, Governors of Kentucky, Politicians from Denver, Colorado, Politicians from New Hampshire, US Republican Party politicians

Matthew Griswold "Matt" Bevin (born January 9, 1967) is an American businessman and politician. He is a member of the Republican Party. He became the Governor of Kentucky on December 8, 2015. He left office on December 10, 2019.

[[Bill Saluga]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American television actors, Actors from Ohio, Comedians from Ohio

Bill Saluga (born William Saluga; September 16, 1937) is an American comedian. He was born in Youngstown, Ohio. He was a founding member, along with Fred Willard, Michael Mislove,  George Memmoli, and Patti Deutsch of the improvisational comedy troupe Ace Trucking Company. 

Saluga is best known for his cigar-smoking, zoot-suit-wearing television character “Raymond J. Johnson, Jr.”. He is famous for his catchphrase "You can call me Ray, or you can call me Jay, or you can call me Raymond J. Johnson, but you doesn't hasta call me Johnson!" 

[[Pete du Pont]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, American lawyers, Episcopalians, Governors of Delaware, Harvard University alumni, Politicians from Wilmington, Delaware, Princeton University alumni, Businesspeople from Wilmington, Delaware, United States representatives from Delaware, US Republican Party politicians

Pierre Samuel "Pete" du Pont IV (January 22, 1935 – May 8, 2021) was an American lawyer and politician. He was born in Wilmington, Delaware.

He was the United States Representative for Delaware's at-large congressional district from 1971 to 1977. He then served as the 68th Governor of Delaware from 1977 to 1985. He is a member of the Republican Party.

du Pont ran for President of the United States in the 1988 U.S. presidential election. He lost the primaries to Vice President George H. W. Bush.

du Pont died on May 8, 2021 in Wilmington at the age of 86.

[[Universal Kids]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks, 2005 establishments in the United States

Universal Kids is a brand for preschool-oriented programmes distributed by Qubo owned by PBS, Comcast, HIT Entertainment, and Sesame Workshop satellite and television network that is owned by the NBCUniversal Cable Entertainment Group subsidiary of NBCUniversal, itself a division of Comcast.

[[A Fall of Moondust]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction books

A Fall of Moondust is a science fiction novel written by Arthur C. Clarke. It was first published in 1961 and has been reprinted many times.

[[Nintendo entertainment system clone]]

CATEGORIES: Copyright infringement

Nintendo entertainment system clones are hardware clones of the Nintendo Entertainment System and are rarely licensed. Nintendo has been cracking down on their production. Most of these consoles are manufactured in east Asia and are only sold in certain stores depending on their legality level. For example,a clone with pirated software built in is only sold at places like malls and flea markets. Ones that have original software built in are sold in places like dollar stores and pharmacies. Consoles that have no software built in and are intended to be a non-collector alternative to retro gamers are sold at used game stores.

[[Razem]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Europe, Politics of Poland

Partia Razem (ˌpartja ˈrazɛm, Together Party) is a left-wing Polish political party created in May 2015. It is one of the many parties that were involved in the Polish parliamentary election of 2015. The party supports labor rights and is against deregulation. It is democratically socialist and socialdemocratic. During the 2015 elections it has achieved 3.62% of the votes, but that was not enough to gain a seat in the parliament.

The colour of the party is red-violet.

[[Warren Commission]]

CATEGORIES: John F. Kennedy

The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy, known unofficially as the Warren Commission, was established by President Lyndon B. Johnson on November 29, 1963. Its purpose was to investigate the assassination of United States President John F. Kennedy that had taken place on November 22, 1963. 

[[Sebastian Nerz]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Politicians from Baden-Württemberg, Politicians of the Free Democratic Party of Germany

Sebastian Matthias Nerz (born 13 July 1983) is a German politician and bioinformatician. He was the leader of the Pirate Party Germany (Piratenpartei Deutschland) from May 2011 to April 2012. He left the Pirate Party Germany in February 2014. He has since joined the Free Democratic Party.

[[Université Fédérale Toulouse Midi-Pyrénées]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in France, 2007 establishments in France, Toulouse

The Université Fédérale Toulouse Midi-Pyrénées is a public university in Toulouse. UFTMP has 14 schools and it has 15 academic departments and gives much importance to scientific and technological research.

[[Adam Wylie]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, American child actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles County, California

Adam Augustus Wylie (born May 23, 1984) is an American actor, voice actor, singer, Broadway musical performer and a former Crayola spokesman. He's known for voicing Peter Pan in Jake and the Never Land Pirates.

[[Howard Coble]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, American military personnel of the Korean War, American Presbyterians, Deaths from skin cancer, Deaths from surgical complications, People from Greensboro, North Carolina, United States representatives from North Carolina, US Republican Party politicians, United States Coast Guard

John Howard Coble (March 18, 1931 – November 3, 2015) was an American politician. He served as a U.S. Representative for NC, serving from 1985 to 2015. He was a member of the Republican Party.

Coble had skin cancer for many years. He was admitted to ICU in September 2015 after complications from skin cancer surgery. Coble died on November 3, 2015, in Greensboro, North Carolina at the age of 84 from complications of the surgery.

[[René Girard]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, American writers, American literary critics, American educators, American historians, American philosophers, Disease-related deaths in California, French historians, French philosophers, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Writers from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur

René Noël Théophile Girard (ʒ; ʒiʁaʁ; December 25, 1923 – November 4, 2015) was a French-American historian, literary critic, and philosopher of social science. His writings were based on anthropological philosophy. Girard was the author of nearly thirty books with his writings spanning many academic domains. His work was based on literary criticism, critical theory, anthropology, theology, psychology, mythology, sociology, economics, cultural studies, and philosophy.

[[Meningococcal disease]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria

Meningococcal disease, also called meningococcal meningitis, is infections caused by the bacterium meningococcus (Neisseria meningitidis). If left untreated, the death rate is high. However, it can be prevented by vaccines. The disease is best-known for causing meningitis. It also causes blood infection, which then leads to sepsis. 

There are over 2,600 cases of bacterial meningitis in the United States per year. In developing countries, there are over 333,000 cases per year. The case death rate is between ten and twenty percent.

Meningococcal disease is not as spreadable as the common cold. However, it can be passed between people through saliva.

[[Eric Hobsbawm]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2012 deaths, British historians, Writers from London, People from Alexandria

Eric John Ernest Hobsbawm, CH, FBA, FRSL (ˈ; 9 June 1917 – 1 October 2012) was a British Marxist historian. He worked on the rise of industrial capitalism, socialism, and nationalism. His best-known works include his trilogy about what he called the "long 19th century" (The Age of Revolution: Europe 1789–1848, The Age of Capital: 1848–1875 and The Age of Empire: 1875–1914), The Age of Extremes.

[[We Bare Bears]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 American television series debuts, American animated television series, English-language television programs, Cartoon Network series, Television shows about bears, Television series about brothers, Television series set in San Francisco

We Bare Bears is an American animated television series created by Daniel Chong. The show premieres on Cartoon Network and Nelvana .

It is about three bear brothers, Grizzly, Panda and Ice Bear (voiced by Eric Edelstein, Bobby Moynihan, and Demetri Martin), and their awkward attempts at communication with the human world in the San Francisco Bay Area. The series premiered on July 27, 2015. This series is Cartoon Network's first original series based on a comic.On August 12, 2015, Cartoon Network renewed the series for a second season.

[[Christmas carol]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas music

A Christmas carol (also called a noël, from the French word meaning "Christmas") is a carol (song or hymn) whose lyrics are on the theme of Christmas. They are traditionally sung on Christmas itself or during the surrounding holiday season. 

[[My arcade series]]

CATEGORIES: Copyright infringement

The My arcade consoles are a line of unauthorized handheld Nintendo entertainment system clones that attach to a TV set manufactured by various companies and sold by DreamGEAR, LLC. Most, if not all of these were manufactured in East Asia and are low quality. The consoles are most common in places like Walgreens and dollar stores, but excess inventory is sometimes sold in more mainstream stores like Meijer and Walmart. In 2012, DreamGEAR released My arcade portable gaming systems to stores which are 16-bit instead of 8-bit, and seem to use an unauthorized implementation of the Game Boy Advance hardware. Many of the games found on these handhelds contain copyright infringement. They repeat games with different textures and sounds.

[[Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Virginia, 1985 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Virginia

Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology (TJHSST, TJ, Jefferson) is a high school in Virginia, United States. The school is a public school. It is part of the Fairfax Country Public Schools (FCPS). TJHSST is a selective school, which means that only a small group of people can go to the school. To decide who can go to the school, applicants (people who wants to go to the school) need to take an admission test, get a teacher recommendation, write essays, write a resume (a paper telling about who you are), and have good grades before. TJHSST is a very good school. U.S. News & World Report said that the school was the best public high school in the country from 2007 to 2013. In 2014 and 2015, TJHSST was first place again in Newsweek's "America's Top Schools" ranking.

[[Legal proceeding]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

A legal proceeding is any legal matter that is before a judge or tribunal. Legal proceedings refer to all parts of a trial or hearing. 

Legal proceedings for United States courts of appeals are called the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure. They apply to all courts of appeal and since December 4, 1967 to the United States Supreme Court.

[[Power kracker]]

CATEGORIES: Copyright infringement, Piracy

The Power kracker (known as "Powerzone" before 2011 and "Power blaster" before 2012) are a line of unlicensed  Nintendo entertainment system clones manufactured by Sinango and released in 2010. It has a sticker on it saying "76000 in 1" and shows large amounts of false advertising (Screenshots from existing modern games,uncredited reviews,ETC)and contains 76 pirated Nintendo Entertainment System games repeated circa 1,000 times. The Power kracker has been reported a common Famiclone to find at swap meets\flea markets. The console resembles an Xbox 360 controller and includes a lightgun, while the Powerzone resembles a Penguin.

[[A Study in Scarlet]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s books, Books by Arthur Conan Doyle, British novels

A Study in Scarlet is a detective mystery novel written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. It introduces his new characters, the detective Sherlock Holmes and his friend, Dr. John Watson. They became two of the most famous characters in literature.

Conan Doyle wrote the story in 1886, and it was published the next year. Holmes describes the story's murder investigation as his "study in scarlet": "There's the scarlet thread of murder running through the colourless skein of life, and our duty is to unravel it, and isolate it, and expose every inch of it".

The story and its main characters attracted little public interest when it first appeared. It was published in Beeton's Christmas Annual for 1887. Only 11 complete copies of the Annual exist now, and they have considerable value. Although Conan Doyle wrote 56 short stories about Holmes, A Study in Scarlet is one of only four full-length Holmes novels. The novel was followed by The Sign of the Four, published in 1890.

A Study in Scarlet was the first work of detective fiction to have the magnifying glass as an investigative tool.

[[Garret Dillahunt]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Actors from Alameda County, California

Garret L. Dillahunt (born November 24, 1964) is an American actor. He has played the role of Burt Chance on the Fox sitcom Raising Hope. Dillahunt played the role of Ty Walker in the sixth season of Justified.

[[Molecular geometry]]

CATEGORIES: Physical chemistry

Molecular geometry is the way atoms are arranged in a molecule. The three-dimensional arrangement determines many properties of that molecule. There are many different molecular structures. They are organised by the number of atoms involved and the angles between the bonds.

[[Jessie Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 1996 deaths, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana, African American musicians, American R&B musicians, Singers from New Orleans, Louisiana, American blues musicians, Deaths from renal failure, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American songwriters

Jessie Hill (December 9, 1932 – September 17, 1996)  was an American R&B and Louisiana blues  singer and songwriter. He was best known for his popular call and response song "Ooh Poo Pah Doo". As a singer, he recorded a successful single.  In addition to his original, there have been over 100 cover versions made by other artists.

[[Stade Vélodrome]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in France, Marseille

The Stade Vélodrome is an association football stadium. It is in Marseille, France. It can hold 67,000 people. It was built in 1937 for the 1938 FIFA World Cup in France. It has been worked on many times, and has slowly turned into the stadium it is today. It is almost always used for Olympique Marseille matches. It was also used for the UEFA Euro 2016 in France.

[[Alfonso und Estrella]]

CATEGORIES: Operas

Alfonso und Estrella (Alfonso and Estrella), D. 732, is an German opera with music by Franz Schubert, and libretto by Franz von Schober. It was composed on 1821-22 in Vienna. And later was first performed in Weimar, on June 24, 1854.

[[List of NFL teams that finished a season at 1–15]]

CATEGORIES: National Football League seasons

This is a list of the National Football League teams that finished a season with 1 win and 15 losses. 11 teams finished a season with 1 win and 15 losses.

The Detroit Lions in 2008 and the Cleveland Browns in 2017 are not included because they both finished without a win.

[[Adriana Campos]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2015 deaths, Colombian entertainers, Colombian movie actors, Road accident deaths, Colombian television actors

Adriana Campos (February 27, 1979 – November 3, 2015), was a Colombian television, movie and stage actress. She worked with RCN Televisión and Caracol Televisión as an actress of telenovelas. She was known for her role as Nicole Aguilar in Vecinos.

Campos died in a car accident in Salgar, Antioquia with her husband, aged 36.

[[Nora Brockstedt]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Norway, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Musicians from Oslo, Norwegian singers

Nora Brockstedt (20 January 1923 – 5 November 2015) was a Norwegian singer. She was born in Oslo. Brockstedt represented Norway in the Eurovision Song Contest 1960 and 1961, with the memorable songs "Voi-voi" and in Palma" "Sommer i Palma".

Brockstedt died in hospital in Oslo from a long illness, aged 92.

[[Mating]]

CATEGORIES: Ethology, Sexuality

Mating is the pairing of opposite-sex or hermaphrodite organisms. It is usually for sexual reproduction. Some definitions limit the term to pairing between animals. Other definitions extend the term to crossing in plants and fungi. It is usual for mating in plants or fungi to be called cross-fertilization, or "crossing" if the offspring have DNA from both genetic sources. 

Copulation is the union of the sex organs of two sexually reproducing animals for internal fertilization. Fertilization is the actual fusion of gametes.

Mating may also lead to external fertilization. This is done by amphibians, most fish, many lower animals, and plants. Many aquatic species just spread their eggs and sperm in the water at one specific time of year. That time varies between species. 

For some hermaphroditic species, copulation is not needed because the parent organism can self-fertilize (autogamy). In some flowering plants self-pollination can happen within the same flower, and some hermaphrodite animals self-fertilize. Many gastropods are hermaphrodite, and do simultaneous copulation in pairs. So do earthworms. 

In some birds, mating includes behaviors such as nest-building and feeding offspring. The human practice of artificial insemination of domesticated animals is part of animal husbandry.

[[Neptune Township, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey, Monmouth County, New Jersey

Neptune Township, New Jersey is a township in the U.S. state of New Jersey.

[[Melissa Mathison]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn Award winners, 1950 births, 2015 deaths, American activists, American television writers, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from neuroendocrine cancer, Screenwriters from Los Angeles, California

Melissa Marie Mathison (June 3, 1950 – November 4, 2015) was an American movie and television screenwriter and an activist for Tibetan freedom. Her last movie produced and written was Disney's The BFG (2016).

She was best known for writing the screenplays for the movies The Black Stallion (1979); E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982), for which she received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay; and Kundun (1997), a biographical-drama movie about the Dalai Lama, the exiled political and spiritual leader of Tibet.

From 1983 to 2004, Mathison was married to Harrison Ford. She died on November 4, 2015 in Los Angeles, California at the age of 65 from neuroendocrine cancer, a rare form of pancreatic cancer.

[[George Barris]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Artists from Chicago

George Barris (November 20, 1925 – November 5, 2015) was an American designer. He build many famous Hollywood custom cars, most notably the Munster Koach and 1966 Batmobile.

Barris was married to Shirley Nahas from 1958 until her death in 2001. They had two children. He died on November 5, 2015, in his sleep at his home in Encino, California from cancer, at the age of 89.

[[Woodbridge Township, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey, Middlesex County, New Jersey

Woodbridge Township, New Jersey is a township in the U.S. state of New Jersey.

[[Hans Mommsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, German historians, Writers from Hesse

Hans Mommsen (5 November 1930 – 5 November 2015) was a German historian. He was the twin brother of historian Wolfgang Mommsen. Mommsen was known for his studies in German social history, and for his opinions of the Third Reich. He argued that Hitler was a "weak dictator". He also studied the Holocaust.

[[This Land Is Your Land]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s songs, Folk music

"This Land Is Your Land" is one of the best known folk songs in the United States. Its lyrics were written by American folk singer Woody Guthrie in 1940, based on a melody that already existed. Guthrie's melody was very similar to the melody of "Oh, My Loving Brother". This was a Baptist gospel hymn that had been recorded by the Carter Family as "When the World's On Fire", and had inspired their "Little Darlin', Pal of Mine." He used the same melody for the chorus and the verses.

Guthrie did not like Irving Berlin's song "God Bless America", sung at that time by Kate Smith. Guthrie was angry with the positive (smug) attitude of the song. He thought it was not realistic and the words sounded too proud of the country. The song was popular and was being played on the radio all the time. Tired of hearing it on the radio, he wrote a response originally named "God Blessed America For Me".

Guthrie rewrote the lyrics and the title over time and the song finally became "This Land Is Your Land".  He sometimes added more overtly political verses in line with his views of communism than appear in recordings or publications.

Although Gutrie wrote the song in 1940, he did not record it until 1944. The song was not published until 1945, when it was included in a mimeographed booklet of ten songs with typed lyrics and hand drawings. The booklet was sold for twenty-five cents, and was copyrighted in 1951.

The first known professionally printed publication was in 1956 by Ludlow Music (now a unit of The Richmond Organization), which administered the publishing rights to Guthrie's song. Ludlow later issued versions with piano and guitar accompaniments.

In 2002, it was one of 50 recordings chosen that year by the Library of Congress to be added to the National Recording Registry.

[[Toms River, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey, County seats in New Jersey, Ocean County, New Jersey

Toms River, New Jersey is a township in the U.S. state of New Jersey.

[[Shafiqa Quraishi]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century births, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Afghan activists, Human rights activists, Police officers, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Shafiqa Quraishi is an Afghan activist for women's rights. In 2010, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Readhimer, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana

Readhimer is an unincorporated community in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[University of Paris-Saclay]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in France, 2014 establishments in Europe, Île-de-France, Paris, 2010s establishments in France

The University of Paris-Saclay (UPS) is a public university in Paris, France. UPS has nine schools and two colleges. The university also has seven research departments. Called a mega-university, their goal is to reach the same level of excellence as MIT, Oxford, Cambridge and Harvard Universities. It is a center for scientific and technological research. UPS students, graduates, and faculty members are famous for being given many awards. The university was started in 2014. It is one of the most selective universities. The most popular major is engineering. It has already been called the "French Silicon Valley".

[[Genome editing]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic engineering

Genome editing  is a type of genetic engineering.

DNA is inserted, replaced, or removed from a genome using artificially engineered nucleases, or "molecular scissors". The nucleases make specific double-strand breaks (DSBs) at desired places in the genome. The cell’s own mechanisms repair the induced break(s) by natural processes. 

At present there are four families of engineered nucleases being used.

To understand the function of a gene or a protein one interferes with it in a sequence-specific way, and watches its effects on the organism. However, in some organisms it is difficult or impossible to do site-specific mutation. Therefore more indirect methods have to be used. Examples are: 

Genome editing was chosen by Nature Methods as the 2011 Method of the Year. The technique is already being used, but implanting modified embryos into a woman is not yet permitted.

[[Small interfering RNA]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic engineering, RNA

Small interfering RNA (siRNA)  is a class of double-stranded RNA molecules, 20-25 base pairs long. 

siRNA plays many roles, but it is most notable in the RNA interference (RNAi) pathway, where it interferes with the expression of certain genes. Genes are only affected if they have nucleotide sequences complementary to those of the siRNA. 

siRNA functions by breaking down mRNA after transcription. This prevents   translation of the gene into protein. siRNA also acts in RNAi-related pathways, e.g., as an antiviral mechanism or in shaping the chromatin structure of a genome. The complexity of these pathways is only now being worked out.

[[Gene editing]]

Gene editing may refer to:

[[Harjit Sajjan]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Privy Councillors (Canada), 1970 births

Harjit Singh Sajjan PC OMM MSM CD MP (born September 6, 1970) is a Canadian Liberal politician. He is the current Canadian Minister of National Defence. Sajjan is also a Member of Parliament representing the Vancouver South riding. He was a decorated lieutenant-colonel in the Canadian Armed Forces. Before becoming a politician he spent 11 years as a police officer and detective.

[[Pledge of Allegiance]]

CATEGORIES: American culture, 1887, 1880s works

The Pledge of Allegiance of the United States is an expression of allegiance to the Flag of the United States and the republic of the United States of America. It was originally composed by Colonel George Balch in 1887. It was changed by Francis Bellamy in 1892. It was formally adopted by the Congress as the pledge in 1942.

[[Liberty, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Indiana, County seats in Indiana

Liberty is a town in the state of Indiana, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 2,133. It is the county seat of Union County.

[[Arcadia, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Indiana

Arcadia is a town in the state of Indiana, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, there were 1,666 people living in Arcadia.

[[List of awards and nominations received by Hugh Jackman]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of awards and nominations

Australian actor and singer Hugh Jackman has won international recognition for his roles in major films, notably as superhero, period, and romance characters.

[[Isometry]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

Isometry is a concept of geometry. Isometry means that one shape can be transformed into another, but metrics such as  the arrangement of the points with relation to each other stays the same. Examples for isometric transformations are moving a shape, or rotating it.

[[Skeletal muscle]]

CATEGORIES: Muscle tissue

Skeletal muscle is a form of "striated" (striped) muscle tissue. It is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. It is one of three muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. 

Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibres. Muscle fibres do the work when muscles contract. A great deal is known about their structure and how they work. They contract when they get a nerve impulse.

[[Chris Stapleton]]

CATEGORIES: American country musicians, 1978 births, Living people

Chris Stapleton is an American country musician. He is signed to Universal Music Group in Nashville. He has written six number-one songs. Those songs include the five-week number one single "Never Wanted Nothing More" recorded by Kenny Chesney, "Love's Gonna Make It Alright" recorded by George Strait and "Come Back Song" recorded by Darius Rucker.

[[Cardiac muscle]]

CATEGORIES: Animal tissues, Muscle tissue

A cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is one of the three main types of muscle in vertebrates. It is involuntary: a person cannot control it consciously. Also, it is a striped muscle in the walls of the heart. It makes up the tissue called the myocardium. 

The other types of muscle are the skeletal and smooth muscle. The cells that make up cardiac muscle  have one (74%) or two (24.5%) nuclei. The myocardium forms a thick middle layer between the outer epicardium layer and the inner endocardium layer.

Coordinated contractions of cardiac muscle cells in the heart force blood out of the atria and ventricles to the blood vessels of the left/body/systemic and right/lungs/pulmonary circulatory systems. This mechanism illustrates systole (contraction) of the heart.

Cardiac muscle cells, unlike most other tissues in the body, rely on the coronary arteries to deliver oxygen and nutrients and remove waste products directly. There is no time for them to diffuse.

[[Selimiye Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Turkey, Mosques in Turkey

The Selimiye Mosque (Turkish: Selimiye Camii) is an Ottoman imperial mosque, which is in  Edirne, Turkey. The mosque was commissioned by Sultan Selim II, and was built by architect Mimar Sinan between 1569 and 1575. It was considered by Sinan to be his masterpiece and is one of the highest achievements of Islamic architecture.

[[Dylan O'Brien]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors

Dylan O'Brien (born August 26, 1991) is an American actor and musician. He is best know for his role as "Stiles" Stilinski in the MTV series Teen Wolf. O'Brien also plays Thomas in the science fiction adventures Maze Runner Series.

[[Rebecca Soler]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century births, Year of birth missing (living people), Actors from Boston, Massachusetts, Actors from Texas, American voice actors

Rebecca Soler (August 24)  is an American voice actress who dubbed cartoons and anime for 4Kids Entertainment, Fox, Nickelodeon, Central Park Media and DuArt Film and Video. She grew up in Boston, MA and move it to Sugar Land, Texas. She is sometimes credited under the name "Jessica Paquet".

[[Fenethylline]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Fenethylline, the generic name of Captagon, was first produced in the 1960s to treat hyperactivity, narcolepsy, and depression. It was banned in most countries by the 1980s for being too addictive. 

It remains popular in the Middle East and is used as a stimulant in the area to aid in combat. 

The drug is cheap and simple to produce, using ingredients that are easy and often legal to obtain, yet sells for up to $20 a tablet. A Lebanese psychiatrist, Ramzi Haddad, said that Captagon had "the typical effects of a stimulant", producing "a kind of euphoria. You're talkative, you don't sleep, you don't eat, you're energetic."

[[Constitutionality]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Constitutions

Constitutionality refers to the agreement with a nation's constitution, especially a law. When a law violates a constitution, it is unconstitutional. Most constitutional issues in the United States involve the Bill of Rights. These are the first 10 amendments to the US constitution. Something that is unconstitutional refers to an action by a government that violates that government's authority. Most constitutions establish the powers that a government may have. Only a government action can violate a state or federal constitution. An example is the US Constitution that guarantees that the United States may not have an official religion. This is why holiday decorations at a city hall displaying only Christian images would be unconstitutional.

[[Atlanta, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Indiana

Atlanta is a town in the state of Indiana, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 725.

[[Gunnar Hansen]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Austin, Texas, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (franchise), Actors from Maine, American movie actors, American video game actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Disease-related deaths in Maine, Icelandic writers, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Reykjavík, Writers from Maine, Writers from Texas

Gunnar Hansen (March 4, 1947 – November 7, 2015) was an Icelandic-American actor and author. He was best known for playing the mentally-ill cannibal Leatherface in The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974). 

Hansen was born in Reykjavík, Iceland. He was raised in Maine and in Austin, Texas. He studied at the University of Texas at Austin. Hansen died of pancreatic cancer on November 7, 2015 at the age of 68.

[[José Ángel Espinoza]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican singer-songwriters, Sinaloa

José Ángel Espinoza Aragón (October 2, 1919 – November 6, 2015), also known as Ferrusquilla, was a Mexican singer-songwriter and movie actor. He was the father of actress Angélica Aragón. He also was a composer working with the SACM (Society of Authors and Composers of Mexico)  He was known for his roles in House of Evil and in Two Mules for Sister Sara. He was born in Mazatlán, Sinaloa.

Espinoza died in Mexico City, Mexico from pneumonia, aged 96.

[[Spectre (2015 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 movies, 2010s action movies, James Bond movies, American action movies, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award, Movies set in Rome, Movies directed by Sam Mendes

Spectre is a 2015 British-American spy movie and the twenty-fourth James Bond series produced by Eon Productions for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Columbia Pictures. It is the fourth movie to feature Daniel Craig as the fictional MI6 agent James Bond and the second movie in the series directed by Sam Mendes following Skyfall, and was written by John Logan, Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and Jez Butterworth. It is the last James Bond movie to be distributed by Columbia Pictures, as Universal Pictures will internationally distribute the next movie in the series, No Time to Die.

The story sees Bond pitted against the global criminal organisation Spectre and their enigmatic leader Ernst Stavro Blofeld (Christoph Waltz), who plans to launch a national surveillance network to mastermind criminal activities across the globe. The movie marks Spectre and Blofeld's first appearance in an Eon Productions movie since 1971's Diamonds Are Forever; a character resembling Blofeld had previously appeared in the 1981 movie, For Your Eyes Only, but, because of the Thunderball controversy, he is not named, nor is his face shown. Several James Bond characters, including M, Q and Eve Moneypenny, return, with new additions Léa Seydoux as Dr. Madeleine Swann, Dave Bautista as Mr. Hinx, Andrew Scott as Max Denbigh and Monica Bellucci as Lucia Sciarra.

Spectre was filmed from December 2014 to July 2015 in Austria, the United Kingdom, Italy, Morocco and Mexico. The action scenes prioritised practical effects and stunts, while employing computer-generated imagery made by five different companies. Spectre was estimated to have cost around $245 million—with some sources listing it as high as $300 million—making it the most expensive Bond movie and one of the most expensive movies ever made.

Spectre was released on 26 October 2015 in the United Kingdom on the same night of the world premiere at the London Royal Albert Hall. It was followed by a worldwide release, including IMAX screenings. It was released in the United States and Canada on 6 November, and received fairly positive reviews from critics who praised the movie's action sequences, cinematography, acting and musical score, but criticized the screenplay and pacing. The theme song "Writing's on the Wall", performed and co-written by Sam Smith, won an Academy Award and Golden Globe for Best Original Song. Spectre grossed over $880 million worldwide, making it the sixth-highest-grossing movie of 2015 and the second-largest unadjusted total for the series after Skyfall.

The next movie in the series, No Time to Die, is set to be released on 2 April 2021, with Craig reprising his role for the fifth and last time and Cary Joji Fukunaga directing.

[[Hamilton County, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Indiana counties, 1823 establishments in Indiana

Hamilton County is a county in the U.S. state of Indiana. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 274,569. The county seat is Noblesville.

[[1993 San Marino Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix, 1993 in sports, 1990s in Italy

The 1993 San Marino Grand Prix (known as the 13° Gran Premio di San Marino by the people putting on the race) was a Formula One motor race held on 25 April 1993 at the Autodromo Enzo e Dino Ferrari in Imola, Italy. It was the third race of the 1993 Formula One season.

[[PSA Flight 182]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 in California, Aviation disasters in the 1970s, History of San Diego, California, Aviation disasters in the United States, September events

Pacific Southwest Airlines (PSA) Flight 182 was a Boeing 727-214 commercial airliner, registration, N that crashed with a private Cessna 172 light aircraft over San Diego, California on September 25, 1978. 

It was Pacific Southwest Airlines' first fatal accident. The death toll of 144 makes it the deadliest aircraft disaster in California history. Until the crash of American Airlines Flight 191, it was also the deadliest plane crash in U.S. aviation history.

Both aircraft crashed into North Park, a San Diego neighborhood, killing all 137 people on both aircraft and seven people on the ground in houses, including two children. Nine others on the ground were injured and 22 homes were destroyed or damaged by the impact and the spreading of debris.

[[Harrisville, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New Hampshire, 1870 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in New Hampshire

Harrisville is a town in Cheshire County, New Hampshire, United States. The population of the town was 961 at the 2010 census. It was founded in 1870.

[[Gerhard Sommer]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, Living people, German war criminals, People from Saxony, SS officers, Waffen-SS people

Gerhard Sommer (born 24 June 1921) is a former SS-Untersturmführer (Second Lieutenant) in the 16th SS Panzergrenadier Division Reichsführer-SS. He was involved in the massacre of 560 civilians on 12 August 1944 in the Italian village of Sant'Anna di Stazzema. He is on the Simon Wiesenthal Center's list of most wanted Nazi war criminals.

As of May 2006 Sommer was living in a nursing home in Hamburg-Volksdorf, Germany. In May 2015 Sommer was declared unfit for trial by prosecutors in Germany

[[Tom Graveney]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, English cricketers, Sportspeople from Northumberland

Thomas William "Tom" Graveney OBE (16 June 1927 – 3 November 2015) was a leading English cricketer. He represented his country in 79 Test matches and scoring over 4,800 runs. In a career lasting from 1948 to 1972, he was the 15th person to score one hundred first-class centuries, and the first post-war player to do so. 

[[NoSQL]]

CATEGORIES: Database modeling

A very common programming language for accessing a database is called SQL. Many of these databases use the mathematical concept of relations to store the data. NoSQL is a term for databases that do not use relations, to store the data. Relational databases have the benefit of being able to guarantee that all the data stored in the database is consistent. The drawback of this is that the cost of indexing the data grows with the amount of data. 

NoSQL approaches do not give strong guarantees about consistency, but they are able to better handle the situations where relational database systems have problems coping.

NoSQL is a non-relational DBMS, that does not require a fixed schema, avoid joins, and is easy to scale.

The purpose of using a NoSQL database is for distributed data stores with humongous data storage needs.

NoSQL is used for Big data and real-time web apps. For example, companies like twitter, Facebook, google collect terabytes of user data every single day.

[[Rhea Chiles]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, American philanthropists, Disease-related deaths in Florida, Writers from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, University of Florida alumni

Rhea Chiles (December 1, 1930 – November 8, 2015) was an American philanthropist and writer. She was the former First Lady of the State of Florida serving from 1991 to 1998. She was married to the late Governor Lawton Chiles. 

In 1998, Chiles founded The Lawton Chiles Foundation, which carries on the commitment of her husband to benefit the lives of children in Florida. In 2009, Chiles was designated a Distinguished Floridian by the Florida Economics Club at an event hosted by former Florida Supreme Court Justice Major B. Harding and keynoted by former United States Senator Sam Nunn. 

Chiles died from a long-illness at her home in Anna Maria Islands, Florida at the age of 84.

[[Charles Duncan Michener]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, Writers from California, Scientists from California, People from Pasadena, California

Charles Duncan Michener (September 22, 1918 – November 1, 2015) was an American entomologist. He was born in Pasadena, California. He was a leading expert on bees, his magnum opus being The Bees of the World.

[[Maduluwawe Sobitha Thero]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Sri Lankan people, Buddhists, Socialists, Activists

Maduluwawe Sobitha Thero (මාදුළුවාවේ සෝභිත හිමි; 29 May 1942 –  8 November 2015) was a Sinhalese Buddhist Bikku. He was a well-known socialist and social justice activist. He was a Buddhist style non-violent revolutionary and he led campaigns that toppled the Sri-Lankan government on several occasions. He was the chief monk of the Kotte Naga Vihara. He played a key role to bring a new government in 2015 defeating Mahinda Rajapaksa, where he supported a common candidate Maithripala Sirisena for presidency, and Ranil Wickremesinghe to form a new government.    

Ven Sobitha died at the age of 73 on 8 November 2015 from multiple organ failure at the Mount Elizabeth Hospital in Singapore.

[[Skandagupta]]

CATEGORIES: Indian monarchs, Emperors and empresses, 467 deaths, Year of birth missing

Skandagupta (स्कन्दगुप्त) (died 467) was a Gupta Emperor of northern India. People do not know who his ancestors were. He faced some of the greatest challenges in the annals of the empire having to contend with the Pushyamitras and the Hunas (a name by which the "White Huns" were known in India). He died in 467.

[[Piotr Domaradzki]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, American historians, American journalists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Polish writers, Deaths from fire

Piotr Krystian Domaradzki (June 21, 1946 – November 4, 2015) was a Polish-American journalist, essayist and historian. He had a longtime association with Chicago's Polish community. He worked for 30 years at Dziennik Związkowy (Alliance Daily), the oldest and largest Polish language newspaper in the United States. From October 2009 to March 2013, he served as the paper's editor-in-chief. He emigrated from Poland in 1984 and became a U.S. citizen in 1996.

Domaradzki died in Chicago, Illinois from complications following injuries sustained in a house fire, aged 69.

[[Axes]]

Axes can refer to:

[[John Speraw]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American volleyball coaches, Sportspeople from California

John Speraw is an American volleyball coach. He is the head coach of the United States men's national volleyball team and the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). He was the former coach of the University of California, Irvine volleyball program. There he led the team to three national titles in six years. Speraw graduated from UCLA in 1995 with a B.S. degree in microbiology and molecular genetics.

[[The Jazz Soul of Little Stevie]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s albums, Debut albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Jazz albums

The Jazz Soul of Little Stevie is the 1962 debut album by Stevie Wonder (then known as "Little Stevie Wonder") on the Tamla (a label owned by Motown) label. Wonder was eleven years old when it was released. It was also the first album Wonder released in 1962, the second was Tribute to Uncle Ray.

[[Tribute to Uncle Ray]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Jazz albums

Tribute to Uncle Ray is the second studio album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder (then known as "Little Stevie Wonder") . It was released in October 1962, not long after Wonder's debut album The Jazz Soul of Little Stevie, which was also released in 1962.

[[Davidson County, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Tennessee counties

Davidson County is a county located in middle Tennessee. The state capitol, Nashville, is in Davidson County and is the county seat. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 626,681 people.

[[With a Song in My Heart (Stevie Wonder album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Jazz albums

With a Song In My Heart is Stevie Wonder's third album, released in 1963 on the Tamla label. The album was the first album of Wonder's not to be released as "Little Stevie Wonder". It was also the second album of Wonder's to be released in 1963.

[[List of bridges in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Azerbaijan, Lists of bridges

This is a list of bridges in Azerbaijan.

[[McDonnell Douglas AV-8B Harrier II]]

CATEGORIES: Military aircraft

The McDonnell Douglas (now Boeing) AV-8B Harrier II is a single-engine ground-attack aircraft. It is the second generation of the Harrier Jump Jet family. It is capable of vertical or short takeoff and landing (V/STOL). The aircraft was designed in the late 1970s as an Anglo-American development of the British Hawker Siddeley Harrier, the first operational V/STOL aircraft. It can hover like a helicopter but can also fly like a jet at near supersonic speeds. It is named after the a bird of prey. It is primarily used on light attack or multi-role missions. These range from close air support of ground troops to armed reconnaissance. The AV-8B is used by the United States Marine Corps (USMC), the Spanish Navy, and the Italian Navy. A variant of the AV-8B, the British Aerospace Harrier II, was developed for the British military. Another is the TAV-8B, is a dedicated two-seat trainer.

The project that eventually led to the AV-8B's creation started in the early 1970s. It was a cooperative effort between the United States and United Kingdom (UK). it was aimed at working on solving the problems of the first-generation Harrier. Early efforts centered on a larger, more powerful Pegasus engine to improve the Harrier's performance. The UK dropped out of the project in 1975.

Following the withdrawal of the UK, McDonnell Douglas extensively redesigned the earlier AV-8A Harrier to create the AV-8B. While retaining the general layout of its predecessor, the aircraft uses a new wing, an elevated cockpit, a redesigned fuselage, one extra hardpoint per wing, and other structural and aerodynamic changes. The aircraft is powered by an upgraded version of the Pegasus, which gives the aircraft its V/STOL ability. The AV-8B made its maiden flight in November 1981 and entered service with the USMC in January 1985. Later upgrades added a night-attack capability and radar. This resulted in the AV-8B(NA) and AV-8B Harrier II Plus, respectively. An enlarged version named Harrier III was also studied, but was not built. The UK, through British Aerospace, re-joined the improved Harrier project as a partner in 1981. After corporate mergers in the 1990s, Boeing and BAE Systems have jointly supported the program. Approximately 340 aircraft were produced in a 22-year production program that ended in 2003.

[[Pevensey]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in England

Pevensey is a village and civil parish in the Wealden district of East Sussex, England. The main village is located 5 miles (8 km) north-east of Eastbourne, one mile (1.6 km) inland from Pevensey Bay.  The settlement of  Pevensey Bay forms part of the parish. It was here that William the Conqueror first landed on and invaded England in 1066 after crossing the English Channel from Normandy, France.

[[Deem Bristow]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American voice actors, 2005 deaths

Deem Bristow (April 11 1947 - January 15 2005) was an American actor and voice actor who has done various voice roles in animated shows and video games. He was best well known for his role as Dr. Eggman in the Sonic the Hedgehog video game series from 1998 to 2004.

[[Vladimir Alekno]]

CATEGORIES: Russian volleyball players, Volleyball coaches, Living people, 1966 births

Vladimir Romanovich Alekno; (born in Polotsk on 4 December 1966) is a former Russian volleyball player and current volleyball coach. He coaches the Russia men's national volleyball team. He also leads a professional team in Kazan, Russia.

Alekno coached the national volleyball team in 2007-2008 and 2011-2012. Under his leadership, the Russian players won the gold medal in 2012 and the bronze medal in 2008 in the Summer Olympic Games. As well, they won the World League and the World Cup both in 2011.

[[Daniel Castellani]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Argentine volleyball players, Volleyball coaches

Daniel Jorge Castellani (born 21 March 1961) is a former Argentine volleyball player and coach, a member of Argentina men's national volleyball team in 1976-1988, bronze medalist of the Olympic Games Seoul 1988, a participant of the Olympic Games Los Angeles 1984, head coach of Sir Safety Perugia.

[[Raúl Lozano]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Argentine volleyball players, Volleyball coaches, 1956 births

Raúl Lucio Lozano (born September 3, 1956 in La Plata, Argentina) is a former Argentine volleyball player. He first coached for Estudiantes de La Plata. In 2005-2008 Lozano was the head coach of Poland's national volleyball team.  He has also coached other top-level teams in Europe including teams from Italy, Greece, and Spain. He led the Polish national team to win a silver medal at the 2006 World championship held in Japan. His Polish team lost to Italy in the quarter final round of the 2008 Summer Olympics at Beijing. In 2009 he coached the German team for two years. He was then the head coach of Czarni Radom in Poland. 

On November 17, 2015, it was announced that Raúl Lucio will coach the Iranian national volleyball team.  He replaced Slobodan Kovac who is the former coach of the Iranian team.

[[Jackie Evancho]]

CATEGORIES: American child singers, Singers from Pennsylvania, American pop singers, 2000 births, Living people

Jacqueline Marie "Jackie" Evancho (iː ee; born April 9, 2000) is an American classical crossover singer. Evancho plays piano, flute, and is also a songwriter. She gained wide recognition at an early age. Since 2009, Evancho has released an EP and five studio albums. She has one platinum and one gold album. Evancho has even performed at Carnegie Hall. 

Between 2008 and 2010, Evancho entered several talent competitions. She made singing appearances, mostly in Pennsylvania. She also attracted interest on YouTube. In 2010, at age ten, she gained wider popularity with her performances in the fifth season of the America's Got Talent competition. She finished in second place behind Michael Grimm. Evancho starred in the 2012 movie "The Company You Keep" with Robert Redford.

[[Bowerhill]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wiltshire

Bowerhill is a suburb of Melksham, Wiltshire, England. It is located to the south of the town. There is a small primary school, a Tesco store and a sports centre in the village. During World War II, Bowerhill was home of a major Royal Air Force Station, RAF Melksham. 

[[Stevie at the Beach]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums

Stevie at the Beach is the fourth album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder released on the Tamla (Motown) label on June 23, 1964. He wouldn't release another album until Up-Tight which was released in 1966, two years later.

[[Arden Hayes]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 births, Living people, People from California, Child prodigies

Arden Hayes (born January 30, 2008) is a middle school student from Southern California, United States. Because of his great knowledge of American presidents, he became famous at the age of five, in addition to reciting Lincoln's Gettysburg Address and being able to identify the countries of the worlds and their capitals.

His interest in  American presidents, started when he was learning about who was born on his birthday, and he realized that he was born the same day that Franklin Delano Roosevelt.

On July 2, 2013, Arden appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live! to demonstrate his knowledge of the U.S. presidents. On November 5, 2013, Arden appeared again on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, and this time showed his knowledge of the countries of the world and their capitals, in addition to decline a free Sony Xperia Tablet Z because he preferred to wait until Christmas to receive an Apple iPad. He appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live! for third time on April 2, 2014, to show his knowledge of the  elements in the periodic table.

[[Ernst Fuchs]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Austrian architects, Austrian composers, Austrian painters, Austrian poets, Singers from Vienna, Musicians from Vienna, Writers from Vienna

Ernst Fuchs (February 13, 1930 – November 9, 2015) was an Austrian painter, draftsman, printmaker, sculptor, architect, stage designer, composer, poet, and singer. He was born in Vienna. He was one of the founders of the Vienna School of Fantastic Realism. In 1972, he bought the Otto Wagner Villa in Hütteldorf, which he restored and transformed. The villa was inaugurated as the Ernst Fuchs Museum in 1988.

Fuchs died at the age of 85 on November 9, 2015 in Vienna.

[[Tommy Hanson]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, 2015 deaths, Atlanta Braves players, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Disease-related deaths in Atlanta, Sportspeople from Tulsa, Oklahoma

Thomas J. "Tommy" Hanson Jr. (August 28, 1986 – November 9, 2015) was an American professional baseball pitcher in Major League Baseball (MLB). He played for the Atlanta Braves and Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Hanson made his MLB debut with Atlanta that season, and played with the Braves through 2012. He pitched his final season in 2013 with the Angels, who had acquired him in a trade.

On November 9, 2015, Hanson was reported to be in a coma with "catastrophic organ failure." He died at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta later that night at the age of 29.

[[Pat Eddery]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2015 deaths, County Kildare, Deaths from cirrhosis, Equestrians, Sportspeople from the Republic of Ireland

Patrick James John "Pat" Eddery (18 March 1952 – 10 November 2015) was an Irish flat racing jockey and horse trainer. He was born in Newbridge, County Kildare.

He rode three winners of the Epsom Derby, and was Champion Jockey eleven times. He is co-holder of the record for most wins in the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe. He rode the winners of 4,632 British flat races, a figure passed only by Sir Gordon Richards.

Eddery died on 10 November 2015 from cirrhosis, aged 63. He had long battled alcoholism.

[[Allen Toussaint]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, African American musicians, American blues musicians, American composers, American jazz musicians, American pianists, American R&B musicians, American record producers, American songwriters, American soul musicians, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Madrid, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana

Allen Toussaint (ˈ; January 14, 1938 – November 10, 2015) was an American musician, songwriter-composer, record producer, and influential figure in New Orleans R&B.

Many of Toussaint's songs became familiar through cover versions by other musicians, including "Working in the Coal Mine", "Ride Your Pony", "Fortune Teller", "Play Something Sweet", "Southern Nights", "Everything I Do Gonna Be Funky", "I'll Take a Melody", "Get Out of My Life, Woman" and "Mother-in-Law".

[[Laurent Vidal]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2015 deaths, 2008 Summer Olympics, 2012 Summer Olympics, Cardiovascular disease deaths in France, Deaths from myocardial infarction, French Olympians, People from Occitanie

Laurent Vidal (18 February 1984 – 10 November 2015) was a French professional triathlete, three time French Champion (2009, 2011 and 2012) and two time Olympian. In Beijing 2008 he placed 36th while he took the 5th place in London 2012. He was born in Sete.

On 10 November 2015, Vidal died at the age of 31 after a heart attack in Gigean.

[[United States courts of appeals]]

CATEGORIES: Courts (law), Federal judiciary of the United States

The United States courts of appeals (or circuit courts) are the intermediate appellate courts of the Federal judiciary of the United States. A court of appeals decides appeals from the district courts within its federal judicial circuit. In some cases it decides appeals from other designated federal courts and administrative agencies.

[[André Glucksmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, Anti-Communists, Cancer deaths in France, French philosophers, Holocaust survivors, Jewish activists, Jewish French scientists, Jewish French writers, Writers from Ile-de-France

André Glucksmann (ɡlyksman; 19 June 1937 – 10 November 2015) was a French philosopher, activist and writer. He was a member of the French new philosophers.

[[Samantha Cristoforetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Astronauts, People from Milan

Samantha Cristoforetti (born April 26, 1977) is an Italian European Space Agency astronaut, Italian Air Force pilot an engineer. She is the first Italian woman in space and until 2017, held the record for the woman with most time spent in space with 199 days and 16 hours. This record is now held by Christina Koch. Cristoforetti is also the first person in prepare an espresso in space.

[[Appellate court]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

An appellate court, commonly called an appeals court, court of appeals (American English), appeal court (British English), court of second instance or second instance court, is any court of law that hears an appeal of a trial court or other lower tribunal. In most jurisdictions, the court system is divided into at least three levels. The trial court, which initially hears cases and reviews evidence and testimony to determine the facts of the case. There is at least one intermediate appellate court. The top level is a supreme court (or court of last resort) which primarily reviews the decisions of the intermediate courts. A jurisdiction's supreme court is that jurisdiction's highest appellate court. Appellate courts nationwide can operate by varying rules.

The authority of appellate courts to review decisions of lower courts varies widely from one jurisdiction to another. In some places, the appellate court has limited powers of review.  "Generally speaking, an appellate court's judgment provides 'the final directive of the appeals courts as to the matter appealed, setting out with specificity the court's determination that the action appealed from should be affirmed, reversed, remanded or modified'".

[[Tim Valentine]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, American Baptists, American lawyers, American military personnel of World War II, Cardiovascular disease deaths in North Carolina, Deaths from heart failure, United States representatives from North Carolina, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Rocky Mount, North Carolina

Itimous Thaddeus "Tim" Valentine, Jr. (March 15, 1926 – November 10, 2015), generally known as Tim Valentine, was an American lawyer and politician. He was a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives from North Carolina from 1983 to 1995.

He was in the United States Air Force from 1944 to 1946.

Valentine died at his home in Rocky Mount, North Carolina on November 10, 2015 from heart failure at the age of 89.

[[Photograph (Ed Sheeran song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 songs

"Photograph" is a song recorded by English singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran for his second studio album, x (2014). Sheeran co-wrote the song with Snow Patrol member Johnny McDaid.

"Photograph" served as the fifth and final single from the album. It reached the top five on the main singles charts in more than five countries. In the US, where it peaked at number ten, "Photograph" became the third single from the album to have reached within the top ten. In the UK, it reached number 15 and has since been certified platinum for sales of 600,000 units. The single has also been certified double platinum in Australia and Canada, and platinum in New Zealand. 

The single's release on 11 May 2015 followed the premiere of the music video on 9 May 2015.

[[Line of Actual Control]]

CATEGORIES: Kashmir, Territorial disputes of China

The Line of Actual Control (LAC) is the effective border between India and China. The LAC is 4,057-km long and traverses three areas of northern Indian states: western (Ladakh, Kashmir), middle (Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh) and eastern (Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh). Quote: "India is used to incursions by Chinese troops across the 4,057-km LAC in all the three sectors—western (Ladakh), middle (Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh) and eastern (Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh)— in a bid to strengthen China's claim over disputed areas and ensure New Delhi does not change its Tibet policy."

Chinese Prime Minister Zhou Enlai used the phrase in a letter addressed to Indian Prime Minister Nehru dated October 24, 1959. In a letter dated November 7, Zhou told Nehru that the LAC consisted of "the so-called McMahon Line in the east and the line up to which each side exercises actual control in the west". During the Sino-Indian War (1962), Nehru claimed not to know where the line was: "There is no sense or meaning in the Chinese offer to withdraw twenty kilometers from what they call 'line of actual control'. What is this 'line of control'? Is this the line they have created by aggression since the beginning of September? Advancing forty or sixty kilometers by blatant military aggression and offering to withdraw twenty kilometers provided both sides do this is a deceptive device which can fool nobody."  It should be noted that these incursions were in response to India's "forward policy" in which India began to contest areas controlled by China, including some that were not included in the McMahon Line.

[[Tupí people]]

CATEGORIES: Native American, South American people, Brazil

The Tupí people were an important ethnic group of indigenous peoples in Brazil. Scholars believe they first settled in the Amazon rainforest. Later, they started to move to the south and settled on the Atlantic coast.

[[Victor Skumin]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Russian physicians, Psychiatrists, Psychologists, Russian scientists, Russian writers, Soviet people, Soviet writers

Victor Andreevich Skumin (Ви́ктор Андре́евич Ску́мин) (born 30 August 1948) is a Russian psychologist, psychiatrist, psychotherapist, medical doctor and writer.

[[Wrongful death claim]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

Wrongful death is a claim  against a person who may be held liable for another person's death. A wrongful death lawsuits may be based on claims of negligence, misconduct, or a criminal act such as murder.

If the person accused of causing a wrongful death is charged with a crime, the wrongful death lawsuit may be filed after a criminal trial. It is possible to win a wrongful death lawsuit even if the person is acquitted of a crime that caused the death, because even though both trials may use the same evidence a wrongful death case has a lower standard of proof.

The claim is brought in a civil action, usually by close relatives, based on tort laws. Common law did not allow for wrongful deatlh lawsuits, as the right to bring a wrongful death claim belonged to the deceased person and died along with that person. In the United States, state and federal laws now allow for wrongful death cases in all U.S.jurisdictions.

[[Up-Tight]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums

Up Tight (also known as Up-Tight Everything's Alright) is the fifth studio album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder. It was released on May 4, 1966 by Tamla. The album reached No.33 on the Billboard Pop Album charts and No.2 on the R&B Albums charts.

[[Speed dating]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality, Relationships

Speed dating is a formal dating process for singles. It is a fun way to meet a large number of new people in a short period of time. Singles spend three-to-five minute periods of time with as many as 25 prospective partners. The conversations are about whatever the two chose. The events are held at places like coffee shops. There is usually a fee and the rules can vary. The short period of time between couples ranges by event. Each participant has a sheet of paper on which they note "interested" or "not interested". The organizer of the event gathers the comments at the end of the event. They look for possible matches and after two or three days contact each participant to see if they are interested in dating the other person. The price for the service ranges from $20 to $80.

[[Penza Oblast]]

CATEGORIES: Oblasts of Russia, Politics, Federal subjects of Russia

Penza Oblast (Пе́нзенская о́бласть, Penzenskaya oblast) is a  administrative division of Russia. 

[[Legal liability]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

Legal liability is the legal responsibility a person has for their actions. It includes the responsibility to compensate another person for any harm or damages caused to them. Legal liability includes lawful obligations required by civil actions or torts. It can also include terms set by a contract, taxes, or fines given by government agencies.

To win a civil lawsuit the plaintiff must prove the defendant's legal liability. This requires proving the defendant failed to act in some way that caused harm to the plaintiff. To succeed the plaintiff must also show the connection of how a failure to act caused him or her injury or harm.

[[Alaska Purchase]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s in the United States, 1867, 19th century in Russia, History of Alaska

Alaska was originally part of the Russian Empire. In 1867, the Russian Empire sold the territory to the United States. This is known as the Alaska Purchase.

[[Insular Celtic languages]]

CATEGORIES: Celtic languages

Insular Celtic languages are the six Celtic languages that originated in the British Isles. All surviving Celtic languages are from the Insular Celtic group; the Continental Celtic languages (the other group) are now extinct. The six Insular Celtic languages of modern times can be divided into 2 groups:

By the 4th century BC most people in the British Isles spoke a Celtic language. When the Irish abbot and missionary Columba met the Pictish king Bruide they needed a translator. Columba spoke Q-Celtic while the Picts spoke P-Celtic.

[[Idiophone]]

CATEGORIES: Musical instruments

An idiophone is a type of musical instrument that makes sound from the material of the instrument itself. They do not use reeds, strings or resonators. Most percussion instruments that are not drums are idiophones. Idiophones make their sound by hitting, rubbing or shaking. Drums are not idiophones. Neither are stringed instruments. Examples of idiophones include the triangle, wood block, maracas, bell, and gong.

[[Underwater Observatory Marine Park Eilat]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks in Israel, Museums in Israel, Eilat

Underwater Observatory Marine Park Eilat (פארק המצפה התת-ימי באילת) is a park, conservation centre and aquarium in Eilat, Israel. It also has an underwater observatory in the Red Sea. It is located at the south of Eilat's Coral Beach Nature Reserve.

[[Phil Taylor (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from liver failure, Disease-related deaths in London, English rock drummers, People from Derbyshire

Phil "Philthy Animal" Taylor (21 September 1954 – 11 November 2015) was a English rock drummer in the British heavy metal band Motörhead from 1975–1984 and 1987-1992 recording ten studio albums and the live album No Sleep 'til Hammersmith. The classic mark IV Motörhead line-up consisted of Lemmy, Philthy Animal Taylor and Fast Eddie Clarke.

Taylor died in London of liver failure on 11 November 2015 at the age of 61.

[[Down to Earth (Stevie Wonder album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums

Down to Earth is the sixth studio album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder, released on November 16, 1966 on the Tamla label. It was his second album to have been released in 1966, as Up-Tight had been released earlier on in the year.

[[Klaus Roth]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Fields Medalists, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British mathematicians, German mathematicians

Klaus Friedrich Roth (29 October 1925 – 10 November 2015) was a German-British mathematician. He was known for his work on diophantine approximation, the large sieve, and irregularities of distribution. 

[[David Atlas]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American meteorologists, Scientists from Brooklyn

David Atlas (May 25, 1924 – November 10, 2015) was an American meteorologist. He was one of the pioneers of radar meteorology. He worked for the US Air Force. He was professor at the University of Chicago and National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), researcher at NASA and private consultant.

Atlas was born May 25, 1924, in Brooklyn, New York City, from Jewish parents who immigrated from Poland and Russia. He studied at the City College of New York. He retired in 1994.

Atlas died on November 10, 2015 from complications following a stroke at a nursing home in Newark, New Jersey at the age of 91.

[[Márton Fülöp]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in Hungary, Hungarian footballers, Manchester City F.C. players, Sportspeople from Budapest, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players

Márton Fülöp (3 May 1983 – 12 November 2015) was a Hungarian professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper. He was born in Budapest.

After playing in Hungary for MTK Budapest FC, BKV Előre SC and BFC Siófok, he signed for English club Tottenham Hotspur, who loaned him to Chesterfield and Coventry, then to Sunderland with whom he permanently signed in 2007.  

Further loans to Leicester City, Stoke City and Manchester City ended with a transfer to Ipswich Town. He ended his career with spells at West Bromwich Albion and Greece's Asteras Tripoli. Fülöp also represented his country at under-21 and full international level, earning 24 senior caps from his debut in 2005. 

Fülöp died on 12 November 2015 in Budapest after a struggle with cancer, aged 32.

[[Gene Amdahl]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, American computer scientists, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in California, Scientists from South Dakota, People with Alzheimer's disease

Gene Myron Amdahl (November 16, 1922 – November 10, 2015) was an American computer architect and high-tech entrepreneur. He was known for his work on mainframe computers at IBM alongside Fred Brooks and Gerrit Blaauw and later his own companies, especially Amdahl Corporation.  He formulated Amdahl's law, which states a fundamental limitation of parallel computing.

In 1998, he was made a Fellow  of the Computer History Museum "for his fundamental work in computer architecture and design, project management, and leadership."

Amdahl died of pneumonia after suffering from Alzheimer's disease during the last years of his life in Palo Alto, California, aged 92.

[[Individual retirement account]]

CATEGORIES: Finance

An individual retirement account or IRA is a form of "individual retirement plan". It is simply a savings account with large tax advantages. An IRA is not itself an investment. It is where an investor keeps assets such as stocks, bonds and mutual funds. A 401(k) is set up by an employer, but an IRA may be started by an individual. Other IRAs may be opened by small business owners and those who are self-employed.

[[Savings account]]

CATEGORIES: Banks

Saving accounts are a type of deposit account kept by banks that pay interest. They let a person keep some of their money in the bank for immediate use. They also earn money through interest. Having a savings account in a bank allows a person to have money available for an emergency. Savings accounts may be opened at most banks, credit unions and trust companies.

The other major types of deposit account are the transactional account (usually known as a "checking" or "current" account), money market account and time deposit.

[[Wakeland High School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Texas, 2006 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Texas

Justin Wakeland High School is a public high school that is in the city of Frisco, Texas, United States.  It is a part of the Frisco Independent School District in the west center area of Collin County.  It opened for the first time to students on August 14, 2006. 

Most sophomores and juniors came from Frisco High School because of the city and district's growth. Freshmen come from Griffin Middle School most of the time, and others come from Staley Middle School.  In 2013, the school was rated "Met Standard" by the Texas Education Agency.

The school is named for Justin Wakeland, who was the superintendent of the Frisco ISD for 19 years from 1978 to 1997.

The school has a television show called Win-TV. It comes on every two weeks. It has many segments and interviews about events happening at Wakeland High School. Wakeland Access, the school newspaper, has articles about events happening at the school.

A lot of sports are offered at Wakeland.

[[Defense in depth (computing)]]

CATEGORIES: Networks, Computer security

Defense in Depth (also known as layered security and layered defense) is an information assurance (IA) concept. It uses multiple layers of security controls (defenses) placed throughout an information technology (IT) system. The multiple layers are not of the same security tool. It uses several different kinds of security with each protecting against a different security attack.

[[Talleres de Córdoba]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, Córdoba, Argentina, 1913 establishments in South America, 1910s establishments in Argentina

Club Atlético Talleres is a sports club club that plays in Argentina's second division. Talleres' main rival is Belgrano de Córdoba.

Talleres is the only team in Córdoba that has won an international competition. It was the Copa Conmebol in 1999.

[[La Jura]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s operas, 1928 works

La Jura is an Italian opera in five acts, with music and libretto by Gavino Gabriel. It was first performed in Cagliari, in 1928. On April 8, 1958 it was performed in Naples.

[[Frankee]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, American hip hop musicians, American R&B singers, American songwriters, American soul musicians, Models from New York City, Musicians from Staten Island, Singers from New York City

Nicole Francine Aiello (born June 9, 1983) is an American  R&B singer-songwriter and model known by her stage name, Frankee. She grew up with her parents, Matthew and Francine, and her two siblings, elder brother Matthew Jr. and younger sister Monique. Nicole was given the nickname "Frankee," which came from her middle name (and is also her grandfather's nickname). She is best known for her debut single "F.U.R.B. (Fuck You Right Back)" which is a answer back to fellow American R&B singer-songwriter Eamon's debut single "Fuck It (I Don't Want You Back)".

[[Window envelope]]

CATEGORIES: Postal history

The window envelope is an envelope with transparent plastic window in it so you can see what it is and who it's from. It was invented and patented by Americus Callahan in 1901. It was first called an "outlook envelope." Callahan planned to use very thin rice paper as the window, but now clear plastic is used.

[[The Good, the Bad, the Ugly (Frankee album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Debut albums, R&B albums, Hip hop albums, Soul albums

The Good, the Bad, the Ugly is the debut studio album by American recording artist Frankee, released in 2004. Her debut single "F.U.R.B." is an answer song to Eamon's "Fuck It (I Don't Want You Back)". To date it is the only album released by Frankee.

[[Zurab Tsereteli]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, People from Tbilisi, Architects, Russian painters, Soviet people

Zurab Konstantines dze Tsereteli (ზურაბ კონსტანტინეს ძე წერეთელი, Зураб Константинович Церетели;  born January 4, 1934) is a Georgian-Russian painter, sculptor and architect. He holds the office of President of the Russian Academy of Arts.

[[Jihadi John]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths by airstrike, British Muslims, Criminals from London, Islamic State people, Kuwaiti people, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom

Mohammed Emwazi (born Muhammad Jassim Abdulkarim Olayan al-Dhafiri, 17 August 1988 – 12 November 2015) was a Kuwaiti-born British Arab terrorist. He moved to London in 1994. He was thought to be the person seen in several videos produced by the Islamic extremist group ISIL. The videos showed the beheadings of captives in 2014 and 2015. A group of his hostages nicknamed him  "Jihadi John" since he was part of a four-person terrorist cell with British accents whom they called "The Beatles".

On the night of 12 November 2015, US officials reported that Emwazi had been hit by a drone strike in Al-Raqqah, Syria. The following day, UK officials stated a “high degree of certainty” that Emwazi was killed. He was declared dead later that day.

[[Sheridan, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Indiana

Sheridan is a town in the state of Indiana, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 2,665.

[[November 2015 Paris attacks]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in France, 2015 mass shootings, 2015 murders in Europe, 2010s crimes in France, 2010s explosions in Europe, 2010s in Paris, 2010s mass shootings in Europe, Explosions in 2015, Islamic State, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2015, Islamic terrorist incidents in France, Massacres in Europe, Mass murder in 2015, Mass murder in France, Murder in Paris, Murders by firearm in France, November 2015 events, Suicide bombings in Europe, Terrorist incidents in Europe in the 2010s, Terrorist incidents in Paris

On 13–14 November 2015, a mass shooting and suicide bombing happened in Paris and Stade de France at Saint-Denis, Seine-Saint-Denis, France at the Bataclan concert venue, and at other sites. 130 people were killed. Because of this, French President François Hollande announced a national state of emergency. In his speech of 14 November, Hollande said that 128 people were killed and another 128 were gravely injured.

In total, over 350 people were injured during the attacks, about 100 of them are gravely injured. One of the attacks was at the Paris stadium, one of the others was at a theatre.  The others six were at well known places in the city. At least seven people were involved in the attacks: seven were suicide bombers, one was shot by police.

The next day, November 14, ISIS claimed responsibility of the attacks. The leader of the attacks was Belgian terrorist Abdelhamid Abaaoud. He was killed in a police raid on 18 November.

[[Maithili language]]

CATEGORIES: Indo-Aryan languages, Languages of India, Languages of Nepal

Maithili (मैथिली; ˈ; Maithilī) is an Indo-Aryan language. It is spoken in Nepal and northern India. It is spoken by 34.7 million people. Of those, 2.8 million are Nepalese people. It is the second largest national language of Nepal. In ancient times, Maithili language was written in Mithilakshar. Now it is written in Devanagari script.

[[Raute language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Nepal, Sino-Tibetan languages

Raute is a minor Tibeto-Burman language. It is spoken in Dadeldhura District, Mahakali Zone, Nepal. Half of its speakers are nomadic.

[[Roland Dumas]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, Living people, French politicians, French lawyers, Civil servants, Alumni of the Institut d'études politiques de Paris

Roland Dumas (born 23 August 1922 in Limoges, Haute-Vienne) is a French lawyer and Socialist politician. He served as the Foreign Minister under President François Mitterrand from 1984 to 1986 and from 1988 to 1993. He was also President of the Constitutional Council from 1995 to 1999.

[[Warren Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from London, Alumni of the University of Oxford, BAFTA Award winning actors, Naturalised citizens of Australia, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors

Warren Mitchell (born Warren Misell; 14 January 1926 – 14 November 2015) was a British actor. He was a BAFTA TV Award winner and twice an Olivier Award winner. He was known for his role as Alf Garnett in the BBC television sitcom Till Death Us Do Part (1965–75).

Mitchell died, in the early hours of 14 November 2015, after long period of illness, aged 89.  

He is survived by his wife Connie and their three children: Rebecca, Daniel (also an actor) and Anna (also known as Georgia Mitchell).

[[Eagles of Death Metal]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 establishments in California, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Musical duos, Musical groups established in 1998, Musical groups from California

Eagles of Death Metal is an American rock band from Palm Desert, California.

[[Wildflower]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers

A Wildflower is a flower that grows in the wild. Wildflowers aren't naturally planted by nature or by humans, but grow in the wild. Wildflowers are native and exotic species. Some species of wildflowers are endangered.

[[Schnauzer]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

A schnauzer is a type of dog breed that originated in Germany in about the 14th century. The Standard Schnauzer is the oldest of the three Schnauzer varieties: Miniature, Standard, and Giant. All three varieties have the distinctive whiskers, mustache and eyebrows, which is where they take their name from as in German schnauzer means moustache. 

[[Chelsea, London]]

CATEGORIES: Chelsea, London

Chelsea is a well-known area in London. It was a borough, but now it is in the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea.

It is an area where the property values are very high, and the shops and facilities cater to wealthy people. It is the home of Sloane Square, the King's Road and Chelsea F.C. It was the centre of Swinging London in the 1960s, and is still a centre of the fashion trade. Sloane Street is one of London's premier shopping destinations, with high-end fashion or jewellery boutiques such as Cartier, Tiffany & Co., Dolce & Gabbana, Prada, Gucci, Harrods, Dior, Louis Vuitton, Jimmy Choo, Giorgio Armani, Yves Saint Laurent, Chanel, Valentino, Bvlgari, Gianni Versace and Graff.

[[Harrods]]

CATEGORIES: 1834 establishments in Europe, Department stores, Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, 1830s establishments in England

Harrods is an upmarket department store on Brompton Road in Knightsbridge in the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, London. The Harrods brand also applies to Harrods enterprises, including Harrods Bank, Harrods Estates, Harrods Aviation and Air Harrods.

The store has a 5 site. It has 330 departments covering one million square feet (90,000 m2) of retail space. It is said to be the biggest department store in Europe.

Harrods was founded by Charles Henry Harrod in 1834. In the 20th century they bought other stores in the UK. In 1959, the British department store holding company, House of Fraser, bought Harrods. Later, in 1985, the Egyptian Mohamed Al-Fayed bought Harrods. In 2010, the store was sold to Qatar Investment Authority (QIA). This company invests the wealth of the Qatar royal family. Harrods is also known for their annual Christmas bears which are very popular. 

[[Odo, Earl of Kent]]

CATEGORIES: 1030s births, 1097 deaths, Crusaders, Earls and countesses, Normans, Roman Catholic bishops

Odo, Earl of Kent (ca 1030 – 1097) and Bishop of Bayeux, was the half-brother of William the Conqueror. For a time he was second in power after William became King of England.

[[Cortisone]]

CATEGORIES: Steroid hormones

Cortisone is a 21-carbon steroid hormone. Its chemical name is 17-hydroxy-11-dehydrocorticosterone. It is one of the main hormones released by the adrenal gland in response to stress. 

In chemical structure, it is closely related to cortisol. It is used to treat a variety of ailments and can be administered in various ways. Cortisone suppresses the immune system. This reduces inflammation, pain and swelling at the site of the injury. Long-term use of cortisone has risks.

Tadeus Reichstein, E.C. Kendall and P.S. Hench were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1950 for their discovery of cortisone.

[[Seux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Seux is a French commune in Picardy. In 2012, 167 people lived there. The commune is stuated on a plateau, about 16 from Amiens. It is known for its church, Saint Fiacre, which was built in the 18th century. Robert de Louvencourt (1880-1952), which was in the French legion d'honneur, was born in Seux.

[[Scottish Terrier]]

CATEGORIES: Terriers

The Scottish Terrier is one of the five breeds of terrier that originated in Scotland. It is also known as Aberdeen Terrier. The other four breeds of terrier from Scotland are Skye, Cairn, Dandie Dinmont, and West Highland White Terrier. Originally scottish terriers were  used for hunting, but because of their small size, they are often kept as pets. 

[[Eicosanoid]]

CATEGORIES: Hormones

Eicosanoids (or icosanoids) are hormones made of lipids. They are signaling molecules made by the oxidation of 20-carbon fatty acids.

They have control over many bodily systems. They influence growth during and after physical activity, inflammation or immunity after the intake of toxic compounds and pathogens. They are also messengers in the central nervous system.

The networks of controls that depend upon eicosanoids are among the most complex in the human body.

[[Vincent Margera]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2015 deaths, American sex offenders, American television personalities, Child sexual abusers, Criminals from Pennsylvania, Deaths from liver failure, Deaths from renal failure, Entertainers from Pennsylvania, People acquitted of sex crimes

Vincent Roy Margera (July 3, 1956 – November 15, 2015), more commonly known as Don Vito, was an American reality television personality. He was known for his appearances in Viva La Bam, Jackass, Haggard and the CKY videos alongside his nephew Bam. 

[[Moira Orfei]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Italy, Deaths from stroke, Italian movie actors, People from Friuli Venezia-Giulia

Moira Orfei (ˈmɔira orˈfɛi; 21 December 1931 – 15 November 2015), a.k.a. Miranda Orfei, was a popular Italian actress and television personality. Moira was considered the queen of the Italian circus. She was also an actress who was known for her role as Giorgia Casellato in The Birds, the Bees and the Italians.

On 4 August 2006 Moira Orfei had an Ischemic stroke during a show in Gioiosa Ionica. She was still under medical care when she died on 15 November 2015 in Brescia, Italy from complications of the stroke, aged 83.

[[Gastone Moschin]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Italian movie actors, People from Veneto

Gastone Moschin (8 June 1929 – 4 September 2017) was an Italian actor. He was born in San Giovanni Lupatoto (Veneto).

Moschin began his career in the 1950s as theatre actor. He starred with Barbara Bouchet in Milano Calibro 9 in 1972. His most famous role is that of Rambaldo Melandri in the Amici miei series (1975–1985). He also had a part in Francis Ford Coppola's The Godfather Part II, as Don Fanucci.

Moschin died of kidney failure on 4 September 2017 at his home in Terni, Italy at the age of 88.

[[Marco Vicario]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, Italian movie actors, Italian movie directors, Italian movie producers, Italian screenwriters, Actors from Rome

Marco Vicario (born 20 September 1925) is an Italian movie actor, screenwriter, movie producer and director. He appeared in 23 movies between 1950 and 1958. He is known for his roles in 7 uomini d'oro (1965), Il grande colpo dei 7 uomini d'oro (1966) and Wifemistress (1977). 

[[Berugo Carámbula]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Uruguayan entertainers, Movie actors, Television actors, Comedians

Heber Hugo Carámbula, (31 October 1945 – 14 November 2015), also known under the stage name of Berugo Carámbula, was a Uruguayan actor, comedian and TV host. He was born in Las Piedras in 1945. He was known for his role in the Argentine telenovela Son Amores from which he starred in from 2002 through 2003.

Carámbula died in Montevideo, Uruguay from complications of Parkinson's disease at the age of 70.

[[Bernard King]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, African-American basketball players, New York Knicks players, New Jersey Nets players, Utah Jazz players, Golden State Warriors players, Washington Bullets players, Sportspeople from Brooklyn, Living people, American basketball players

Bernard King (born December 4, 1956) is an American retired basketball player. He played 14 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA).

King was picked in the 1st round of the 1977 NBA Draft. He played with the New Jersey Nets, Utah Jazz, Golden State Warriors, New York Knicks and the Washington Bullets.

He was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame on September 8, 2013.

[[A Division (New York City Subway)]]

The A Division is a division in the New York City Subway. It is made of IRT-operated services. Services in the A Division are given numbers, as opposed to Services in the B Division which are given letters.

[[Hello (Adele song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 songs, 2010s ballads, Adele songs, Soul ballads

"Hello" is a song recorded by English singer-songwriter Adele. It is from her third studio album, 25.  It was released on 23 October 2015.  The song was Adele's first since the Bond theme "Skyfall" in 2012.  The song reached number one in several countries, including the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, and the United States. In the US, it first appeared at the top of the Billboard Hot 100, becoming Adele's fourth chart-topper there and spending ten weeks on top of the chart.  It sold over 1,112,000 copies in its first week.  This is the most copies of a song sold in a single week in the U.S. since the release of Elton John's "Candle in the Wind 1997".cn  "Hello" was certified 4× Platinum in the U.S. faster than any other song in history.  On September 20, 2016, the Recording Industry Association of America certified the song 7× Platinum for sales and streams equal to 7 million copies in the United States.

The song finished at number 35 on the Year-End Billboard Hot 100 of 2015 and at #7 on the 2016 chart.  Similarly, the song ranked at number 25 on the Canadian 2015 year-end chart and at number 9 at the end of 2016.Cn

"Hello" won three awards at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in 2017: Song of the Year, Record of the Year, and Best Pop Solo Performance.

[[Black garlic]]

CATEGORIES: Allium, Herbs

Black garlic is a type of food which is made by heating whole bulbs of garlic over the course of several weeks. It was first used as a food ingredient in Asian cuisine. The taste is sweet and syrupy with hints of balsamic vinegar or tamarind. 

Black garlic's popularity has spread to the United States because it has become a sought-after ingredient used in high-end cuisine. The ornamental plant Allium nigrum is commonly called black garlic.

[[Wikimapia]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, Free content

Wikimapia is a geographic online encyclopedia project. It utilizes an interactive "clickable" web map with a geographically-referenced wiki-based system. Its aim is to mark and describe all geographical objects in the world. Wikimapia was created by Alexandre Koriakine and Evgeniy Saveliev on May 2006.

[[Orbital resonance]]

CATEGORIES: Solar System, Orbits

Orbital resonance is a resonance of two orbiting bodies exerting a regular, periodic gravitational effect on each other. Their orbital periods may be related by a ratio of two small integers. It is caused by the changing gravitational forces of bodies which go round each other. The stability of the Solar System was first investigated by Laplace, and there is still much that is not known about it.

As a satellite goes round a planet or two stars go round each other, the gravitational forces can change, sometimes hugely. This is partly because orbits are usually ellipses, not circular, and so the forces change accordingly. Also, the planets and stars are usually not spherical. They spin, and vary in their degree of oblateness. This also changes the forces on an orbiting body.

In particular, the forces may be unstable, so the smaller partner may change until the forces are stable (do not change with time). Satellites often end up with one face towards their planet, because that is the most stable position (tidal locking).

There are other stability effects. Gaps in Saturn's rings are caused by the particles shifting into more stable positions. In the rings of Saturn, the Cassini Division is a gap between the inner B Ring and the outer A Ring. It was cleared by a 2:1 resonance with the moon Mimas. Jupiter makes similar Kirkwood gaps in the asteroid belt.

There is a stability ratio for Neptune and Pluto: the 2:3 ratio means Pluto completes two orbits in the time it takes Neptune to complete three.

The area of mechanics which is used for these studies is called celestial mechanics.

[[Agoura Hills, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California, 1982 establishments in California

Agoura Hills, California is a city of Los Angeles County, California.

[[New Zealand national rugby union team]]

CATEGORIES: Rugby union

The New Zealand national men's rugby union team, officially nicknamed the All Blacks, represents New Zealand in men's rugby union. This is regarded as the country's national sport. The All Blacks are the holders of the Rugby World Cup, since 2011. They are the 2014 World Rugby Team of the Year. They have won over 76% of their test matches and are the leading test match points scorers of all time. Their win ratio puts them amongst the most successful teams of any sport in history. They are the only international side with a winning record against every country they have played. Since their international debut in 1903 only five nations have defeated New Zealand in test matches. Since the introduction of the World Rugby Rankings in October 2003, New Zealand has held the number one ranking longer than all other teams combined. The All Blacks are also the first team to set their hands on the Webb Ellis Cup.  the first team to successfully defend the Rugby World Cup. They were the first team to win back to back Rugby World Cups and the first team to win the cup on 3 separate occasions.

New Zealand competes with Argentina, Australia and South Africa in The Rugby Championship. The All Blacks have won the trophy thirteen times in the competition's nineteen-year history. They also hold the Bledisloe Cup, which is contested annually with Australia. They hold the Freedom Cup, contested annually with South Africa. New Zealand has achieved a Grand Slam (defeating England, Ireland, Scotland, and Wales in one tour) four timessnd1978, 2005, 2008 and 2010.

They have also been named the "World Rugby Team of the Year" seven times since 2005. Four members have won the "World Rugby Player of the Year" awardsndcurrent captain Richie McCaw, Dan Carter, Kieran Read, and Brodie Retallick. Fifteen former All Blacks have been inducted into the International Rugby Hall of Fame. Four of these are also inductees of the World Rugby Hall of Fame.

The team's first match was in 1884. Their first international match was in 1903 against Australia in Sydney. The following year they hosted their first ever home Test, a match against a British Isles side in Wellington. This was followed by a tour of Europe and North America in 1905 where the team suffered their first test defeatsndto Wales in Cardiff.

[[Eamon (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, American hip hop musicians, American R&B singers, American songwriters, Musicians from Staten Island, Singers from New York City

Eamon Jonathan Doyle, professionally known as Eamon, is an American R&B singer-songwriter and harmonicist. He is known for his hit single, "Fuck It (I Don't Want You Back)".

[[Derogation]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

Derogation (Latin derogatio) is the relaxation or exemption from of a rule of law. This is as opposed to a repeal or ending of a law.  The term is used in both civil law and common law.  It is sometimes used, loosely, to mean abrogation. For example in the legal maxim: Lex posterior derogat priori which means a more recent law may overrule an earlier law. Derogation is different from dispensation (an exception to a law) in that it applies to the law. A dispensation applies to specific people who are affected by the law.

In terms of European Union legislation, a derogation can also imply that a member state delays putting into effect a part of an European Union regulation (etc.) into their own legal system. This can be for a period of time such as five years. Or that a member state has decided not to enforce a specific provision in a treaty due to internal circumstances (typically a state of emergency).

[[Repeal]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

A repeal is the removal or reversal of a law. There are two basic types of repeal. A repeal with re-enactment (or replacement) of the repealed law, or a repeal without replacement.  The move to rescind, repeal, or annul is used in parliamentary procedure to cancel or countermand an action or order previously adopted by the assembly. Removal of secondary legislation is normally referred to as revocation rather than repeal in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Under the common law of England and Wales, the effect of repealing a statute was "to obliterate it completely from the records of Parliament as though it had never been passed." This, however, is now subject to savings provisions within the Interpretation Act 1978.

[[Rudy Markussen]]

CATEGORIES: Boxers, Danish sportspeople, People from Copenhagen, 1977 births, Living people

Rudy Markussen (born July 24, 1977 in Copenhagen) is a retired Danish professional boxer. 

His nickname is The Hard Hitter. On November 16, 2002 Markussen was the number 1 challenger for the IBF Super Middleweight World title. He lost to Sven Ottke. On October 24, 2003 he won the WBO title against American James Crawford. Then on July 24, 2004 he won the EBU (European) Super Middleweight title. He beat Danilo Häussler by a 12 round unanimous decision.

In 2006 Markussen was in a car accident. He was unable to box for several years. Markussen made a comeback in 2010 and had 6 fights in the years 2010-2012. His last fight was December 12, 2015 against fellow Dane Patrick Nielsen.

[[Cumberland, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Indiana

Cumberland is a town in the state of Indiana, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 5,169.

[[Willie Mays]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, African-American baseball players, American military personnel of the Korean War, Living people, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, National League All-Stars, New York Giants (NL) players, New York Mets players, People from Bessemer, Alabama, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, San Francisco Giants players, Sportspeople from Alabama

Willie Howard Mays, Jr. (born May 6, 1931), nicknamed "The Say Hey Kid" is a retired American Major League Baseball (MLB) center fielder. He spent almost all of his 22 season career playing for the New York and San Francisco Giants before finishing with the New York Mets. His career began in 1951 and he retired in 1973.

Mays was born in Westfield, Alabama, near Bessemer, Alabama. 

[[Sharnbrook Upper School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England

Sharnbrook Upper School is an affiliated school in Bedford, Bedfordshire, England. It is in the village of Sharnbrook. It has about 2,500 students. The students range in age from 13 to 18 years of age. The school is very popular and has a waiting list for students. Some parents move into the Sharnbrook area to guarantee their children will get a place at the school. In 2015, 99% of Sharnbrook students passed their level 3 exams. The school is rated in the top 10% of schools in England "for student progress and attainment".

[[Jean Pierre Flourens]]

CATEGORIES: 1794 births, 1867 deaths, neuroscientists, Members of the Académie française, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery, Physiologists

Marie Jean Pierre Flourens (13 April 1794 – 6 December 1867) proved that the effects of "the mind" were caused by the brain, not the heart.

He was a French physiologist, the founder of experimental brain science and a pioneer in anesthesia. He use brain surgery on animals, and studied their effects. His kind of surgery is called "ablative surgery": in most cases ablative brain surgery does not mean removing brain tissue, but rather destroying tissue and leaving it in place.

In 1825, Flourens pioneered the experimental method of ablating parts of the brain in living rabbits and pigeons. He carefully observed their effects. His intention was to find out whether different parts of the brain had different functions.

Flourens was able to show for the first time that the main parts of the brain were responsible for largely different functions. By removing the cerebral hemispheres, for instance, all perceptions, voluntary action, and judgment were abolished. The removal of the cerebellum affected the animal's equilibrium and motor coordination, while the destruction of the brainstem (medulla oblongata) caused death. These experiments led Flourens to conclude that:

[[Packaged terminal air conditioner]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A packaged terminal air conditioner (PTAC) is a kind of self-contained heating and air conditioning system. It is commonly found in hotels, motels, senior housing facilities, hospitals, condominiums, apartment buildings, add-on rooms & sunrooms. Many PTACs are designed to be installed in a wall. They have vents and heat sinks both inside and outside. Different standard dimensions are found in the market including 42×16 inches, 36x15 inches, and 40x15 inches.

The older units usually use mechanical control with mechanical push buttons to select the mode of operation and fan speed control. Another rotary knob is used to set the desired temperature of the unit. This was the most cost effective and simplest method of control in the past.The development and the reduction in cost of electronic controls have enabled manufacturers to implement electronic control touch pad that comes with remote control. Some of the electronic controls that have been built into the system include:Timer Control where you will be able to set when to ON or OFF the unit.Mode control is operated by pushing the same button to select the mode of operation.Temperature setting is displayed by the use of 7 segment display and buttons used to change the settings.Energy saving feature such as sleep or economizer function where the set temperature will be automatically adjusted according to the duration that has elapsed.

[[Phoenix, Edison, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Neighborhoods in the United States, Settlements in New Jersey, Middlesex County, New Jersey

Phoenix, Edison, New Jersey is a neighborhood of Edison, New Jersey.

[[Lincoln Park, New Brunswick, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Neighborhoods in the United States, Settlements in New Jersey, New Brunswick, New Jersey

Lincoln Park, New Brunswick, New Jersey is a neighborhood of New Brunswick, New Jersey.

[[Primary and secondary legislation]]

CATEGORIES: Law

complex

In the parliamentary systems of government, primary legislation and secondary legislation are two forms of law. Primary legislation consists of Acts of Parliament or statute. Secondary legislation (also called delegated legislation) is the granting of additional law-making powers to another branch of government by an Act or statute. In the European Union, primary and secondary legislation are two of the three processes of law. The third is supplementary law which includes International law and covers any gaps between primary and secondary legislation.

[[Statute]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

A statute is a written law passed by a state or federal legislature that creates a rule or regulation. Statutes (also called legal codes) provide the authority for other laws. Many state and federal agencies, such as the IRS, EPA and state Secretaries of State may issue regulations for the areas of the law they cover. A statute usually commands something, prohibits something or declares something to be policy. When there is a dispute over the meaning of a statute, a state or federal court may issue a judgment that interprets the statute more clearly. When this happens it also becomes case law.

Before a statute becomes law in some countries, it must be agreed upon by the highest executive in the government. Then it is published as part of a legal code. In many countries, statutes are organized (or codified) for a particular jurisdiction. In many nations statutory law is distinguished from and is subordinate to constitutional law.

[[Androula Henriques]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Activists, Political activists, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Cypriot people

Androula Henriques is an activist from Cyprus. In 2010 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Sonia Pierre]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Human rights activists, Haitian people, 1963 births, 2011 deaths

Solange Pierre or Sonia Pierre, (1963 – December 4, 2011), was a human rights activist in the Dominican Republic.  She worked to end antihaitianismo, which is discrimination against people of Haitian origin either born in Haiti or in the Dominican Republic. For this work, she won the 2006 Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award.

In 2010 she received the International Women of Courage Award from the United States Department of State.

[[Jonah Lomu]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, New Zealand rugby union players, Sportspeople from Auckland

Jonah Tali Lomu (12 May 1975 – 18 November 2015) was a New Zealand rugby union player. He had sixty-three caps as an All Black after debuting in 1994. He was thought to be as the first true global superstar of rugby union. He had a huge impact on the game. He was inducted into the International Rugby Hall of Fame on 9 October 2007, and the IRB Hall of Fame on 24 October 2011.

He played for several domestic teams, in the Super Rugby, NPC and later the Magners League competitions. These included the Auckland Blues, Chiefs  and Hurricanes, and Counties Manukau, Wellington and later North Harbour and Cardiff Blues. He made a comeback after undergoing a kidney transplant in 2004.

Lomu died suddenly of kidney failure in Auckland, New Zealand, aged 40.

[[Saeed Jaffrey]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, British radio actors

Saeed Jaffrey, OBE (Punjabi: ਸਈਦ ਜਾਫ਼ਰੀ, Urdu: سعید جعفری; सईद जाफ़री; 8 January 1929 – 15 November 2015) was an Indian-born British actor. He appeared on radio, stage, television and movie. He was known for his roles in The Man Who Would Be King, Shatranj Ke Khilari, and in My Beautiful Laundrette.

Jaffrey died at a hospital in London on 14 November 2015, having recently collapsed at his home and suffered a brain hemorrhage, aged 86.

[[Nando Gazzolo]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian voice actors, Liguria

Ferdinando "Nando" Gazzolo (16 October 1928 – 16 November 2015) was an Italian actor and voice actor. He was born in Savona, Italy. Gazzolo was known for his roles in West and Soda (1965), He Who Shoots First (1966) and La ragione degli altri (1965).

Gazzolo died in Nepi, Italy from complications of pneumonia at the age of 87.

[[Dora Doll]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, French movie actors, French television actors, Actors from Berlin

Dora Doll (19 May 1922 – 15 November 2015) was a French actress. She was born Dorothea Hermina Feinberg in Berlin. She was known for her roles in Manon, French Cancan and in Julia.

Doll died in Gard, France from complications of Alzheimer's disease, aged 93.

[[Metairie, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Louisiana

Metairie is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Rocky Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American lawyers, Mayors of Salt Lake City, Politicians from Utah, 2012 United States presidential candidates, People from Logan, Utah

Ross Carl "Rocky" Anderson (born September 9, 1951) is an American attorney and politician. He served two terms as the 33rd mayor of Salt Lake City, Utah, from 2000 to 2008. He is the Executive Director of High Road for Human Rights. He ran for President of the United States in the 2012 U.S. presidential election.

[[Jake Garn]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, American astronauts, American Latter Day Saints, Mayors of Salt Lake City, United States senators from Utah, US Republican Party politicians

Edwin Jacob "Jake" Garn (born October 12, 1932) is an American politician. He is a member of the Republican Party. He served as a U.S. Senator representing Utah from 1974 to 1993.

Garn became the first sitting member of the United States Congress to fly in space when he flew aboard the Space Shuttle Discovery as a Payload Specialist during NASA mission STS-51-D (April 12–19, 1985).

[[Bob Bennett (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, American Latter Day Saints, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Deaths from stroke, Politicians from Salt Lake City, Utah, United States senators from Utah, US Republican Party politicians

Robert Foster "Bob" Bennett (September 18, 1933 – May 4, 2016) was an American politician. He is the former United States Senator from Utah serving from January 3, 1993 through January 3, 2011. He was a member of the Republican Party. Bennett held chairmanships and senior positions on a number of key Senate committees, including the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, Appropriations Committee, Rules and Administration Committee, Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and Joint Economic Committee.

Bennett was a popular conservative senator for most of his tenure, earning high ratings from conservative activist groups such as the National Rifle Association, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and American Conservative Union. However, in 2010 Bennett became one of the most prominent targets of the Tea Party Movement, which criticized his support of George W. Bush.

Bennett died on May 4, 2016 at his home Arlington, Virginia after suffering from pancreatic cancer and a stroke. He was 82 years old.

[[Principia]]

This title has been used for more than one book:

[[Principia Mathematica]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics books

The Principia Mathematica is a three-volume work on the foundations of mathematics by Alfred North Whitehead and Bertrand Russell. It was published in 1910, 1912, and 1913. In 1927, it appeared in a second edition with an important Introduction to the second edition, and different notes at the end. It is often known as PM.

The book was an attempt to describe a set of axioms, inference rules and law of noncontradiction in symbolic logic from which all mathematical truths could in principle be proved. This ambitious project is of great importance in the history of mathematics and philosophy. The authors believed that such a project could be done. However, in 1931, Gödel's incompleteness theorem proved that PM, and any other attempt, could never reach this goal. For any set of axioms and inference rules proposed, either the system must be inconsistent, or there must in fact be some truths of mathematics which could not be deduced from them.

One of the main inspirations and motivations for PM was the earlier work of Gottlob Frege on logic.

PM is not to be confused with Russell's 1903 Principles of Mathematics. PM states: "The present work was originally intended by us to be ... a second volume of Principles of Mathematics... But as we advanced, it became increasingly evident that the subject is a very much larger one than we had supposed..."

The Modern Library placed it 23rd in a list of the top 100 English-language nonfiction books of the twentieth century.

[[Edison, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey, Middlesex County, New Jersey

Edison, New Jersey is a township in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States. It is in the New York City metropolitan area. As of the 2010 United States Census, Edison had a total population of 99,967.

[[I Was Made to Love Her (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums

I Was Made to Love Her is the seventh studio album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder. It was released on August 28th, 1967 under Tamla Records. Wonder also released another album in 1967, a Christmas album called Someday at Christmas.

[[Someday at Christmas]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Christmas albums

Someday at Christmas is a Christmas album and the eighth studio album by Stevie Wonder. It was released on November 27, 1967 under Tamla. It was his second album to be released in 1967. It followed I Was Made to Love Her.

[[Eivets Rednow]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Jazz albums

Eivets Rednow is an instrumental and ninth album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder. It was released on the Gordy Records label in 1968. The title is Stevie Wonder spelt backwards. The album was his first album released in 1967 as he would release another album called For Once in My Life later on that year.

[[For Once in My Life (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums

For Once in My Life is the tenth studio album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder on Motown Records. It was released in December 1968, his second album that year.

[[My Cherie Amour (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums

My Cherie Amour is the eleventh studio album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder. It was  released on the Tamla label on August 29, 1969. It was his only album to be released in 1969. The next two albums released in 1970 would be recorded live.

[[Stevie Wonder Live]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 albums, Live CD, R&B albums, Soul albums

Stevie Wonder Live is a 1970 live album by Stevie Wonder on the Tamla label. It is Wonder's second live album. The album is an important point in his career to shows Wonder's transition from a performer to a genius singer-songwriter.

[[Live at the Talk of the Town]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 albums, Live CD, R&B albums, Soul albums

Live at the Talk of the Town is a 1970 live album by Stevie Wonder on the Tamla record label. It was recorded at the Talk of the Town nightclub in London. It was Wonder's third live album. It was the second to be released in 1970 following the Stevie Wonder Live album.

[[Court order]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

A court order (or order) is a formal written direction by a member of the judiciary. It directs a party to do something. It can also be an order not to do something, as in an injunction. 

An order can be as simple as setting a date for trial. They can also be complex involving many details. It may be a final order (one that concludes the court action), or an interim order (one during the action).  Most orders are written, and are signed by the judge. Some orders, however, are spoken orally by the judge in open court, and are only reduced to writing in the transcript of the proceedings.

[[Party (law)]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

A party is a person or group of persons that make up a single entity for the purposes of the law. They are a participant in legal proceeding and have an interest in the outcome. Parties include: the plaintiff, the defendant, a petitioner or a  respondent. They can also be a cross-complainant (a defendant who sues someone else in the same lawsuit) or a cross-defendant (a person sued by a cross-complainant). A person who only appears in the case as a witness is not considered a party.

Courts use various terms to identify the role of a particular party in civil litigation. They usually call the party that brings a lawsuit as the plaintiff, or, in older American cases, the party of the first part. The party against whom the case was brought as the defendant, or, in older American cases, the party of the second part.

[[Austin Powers (character)]]

CATEGORIES: Austin Powers characters, Fictional British people, Fictional characters introduced in 1997, Fictional twins, Histrionic personality disorder in fiction

Sir Augustine Danger "Austin" Powers, KBE, is a fictional character from the Austin Powers series of films. The character was created by Mike Myers. Mike Myers was also the actor who played the character in the films. He is the main character of Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery (1997), Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me (1999) and Austin Powers in Goldmember (2000).  He is a British spy.  He likes to go to parties and he represents the hippie culture of the 1960s.  This is because he and his opponent Dr. Evil, were frozen during an experiment, and they stayed frozen for many years.  The series' humor follows his attempts to adjust to the modern world as he continues to try to save it from terrorism.

[[Michael C. Gross]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2015 deaths, American television producers, Artists from New York, People from Newburgh, New York, Cancer deaths in San Diego County, Movie producers from New York

Michael C. Gross (October 4, 1945 – November 16, 2015) was an American artist, designer, and movie producer. From 1970 to 1974 he art-directed National Lampoon magazine, and subsequently co-ran a design company. 

In 1980 he started working in Hollywood. He is perhaps best remembered for designing the logo for the movie Ghostbusters, which was one of 11 movies on which he served as producer or executive producer.

Gross died on November 16, 2015 in Oceanside, California from cancer at the age of 70.

[[Rahim Moeini Kermanshahi]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Iranian writers, Poets

Rahim Moeini Kermanshahi (رحیم معینی کرمانشاهی, February 6, 1926 – November 17, 2015) was an Iranian poet and lyricist. He was one of the pioneering songwriters in the history of Persian traditional music. He was born in Kermanshah, Iran. During his 60 years dedication to Persian literature and poetry he published over 20 books and wrote the lyrics of about 500 songs.

Kermanshahi died at the age of 89 at a hospital in Tehran, Iran

[[David Padilla]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Generals, Presidents of Bolivia, South American military people

David Padilla Arancibia (August 13, 1927 – September 25, 2016) was a Bolivian politician and military general. He was the former de facto president of Bolivia. He ruled his country from November 1978  to August 1979.

Padilla died in La Paz on 25 September 2016, at the age of 89. 

[[Walter Buser]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2019 deaths, Federal Chancellors of Switzerland

Walter Buser (14 April 1926 – 17 August 2019) was a Swiss politician from the Social Democratic Party of Switzerland (SDP). He was born in Lausen, Switzerland. He defeated his opponents and became the first Social Democratic Chancellor of Switzerland serving from 1981 until his resignation in 1991.

Buser died on 17 August 2019 at the age of 93.

[[Aaron Shikler]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, American painters, Artists from New York City, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in New York City, People from Brooklyn

Aaron Abraham Shikler (March 18, 1922 – November 12, 2015) was an American artist. He was known for his portraits of American statesmen and celebrities like Jane Engelhard and Sister Parish. He was mainly known for painting the official White House portraits of John F. Kennedy and Nancy Reagan. Shikler was born in Brooklyn, New York City.

Shikler died in Manhattan, New York City from renal failure, aged 93.

[[Bert Olmstead]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Canada, Chicago Blackhawks players, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in Alberta, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Montreal Canadiens players, Toronto Maple Leafs players

Murray Albert Olmstead (September 4, 1926 – November 16, 2015) was a Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He played for the Montreal Canadiens, Chicago Black Hawks and Toronto Maple Leafs in the National Hockey League (NHL). 

[[Sason]]

Sason (Սասուն Sasun; Qabilcewz from قبل جوز; formerly known as Sasun or Sassoun) is a district in the Batman Province of Turkey. It was formerly part of the sanjak of Siirt, which was in Diyarbakır vilayet until 1880. It was in Bitlis Vilayet in 1892. Later it became part of Muş sanjak in Bitlis vilayet. Sason remained part of Muş until 1927. It was one of the districts of Siirt province until 1993. The boundaries of the district varied considerably in time. The current borders are not the same as in the 19th century. This is when the district of Sasun was situated more to the north (mostly territory now included in the central district of Muş).

Sasun, as it is called by Armenians, holds a prominent role in Armenian culture and history. It is the setting of Daredevils of Sassoun, Armenia's national epic. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries it was a major location of Armenian fedayi activities, who staged two uprisings against the Ottoman authorities. They rebelled against the Kurdish tribes in 1894 and 1904.

[[Muş Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Turkey

Muş Province (Muş ili) is a province in eastern Turkey. It is 8,196 km² in area, and has a population of 406,886 according to a 2010 estimate. The population was 453,654 in 2000. The provincial capital is the city of Muş. Another town in Muş province, Malazgirt (Manzikert), is famous for the Battle of Manzikert of 1071. The majority of the province's population is Kurdish.

[[Signed, Sealed & Delivered]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Funk albums

, Sealed & Delivered'(1970)

Signed, Sealed & Delivered is the twelfth studio album by American recording artist Stevie Wonder. It was released on August 7, 1970, by Tamla. It was also Wonder's third album to be released in 1970 as he had already released two live albums earlier on in the year.

[[Where I'm Coming From]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Funk albums

Where I'm Coming From is the thirteenth album by Stevie Wonder.  The album was released by Motown Records on April 12, 1971. It was his only album to be released in 1971 as Music of My Mind was released in 1972.

[[Music of My Mind]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Funk albums

Music of My Mind is the fourteenth studio album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder.  It was released on March 3, 1972, by Tamla Records. Wonder would also release another studio album later on in 1972, called Talking Book.

[[Talking Book]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Funk albums

Talking Book is the fifteenth album by Stevie Wonder. It was released on October 28, 1972 by Tamla. It was also his second album to be released in 1972 as Music of My Mind had been released just months before it.

[[The Dutchess]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Debut albums, Hip hop albums, Dance albums, R&B albums

The Dutchess is the debut studio album by American recording artist Fergie. It was released on September 13, 2006, by A&M Records and the will.i.am Music Group. Musically, The Dutchess is mainly a hip hop and R&B album that also has roots in reggae, dance and soul. The name is also a references to Sarah Ferguson, the real Duchess of York. They share a surname and nickname of Fergie. The title had media attention.

Three of the album's songs ("London Bridge", "Glamorous", and "Big Girls Don't Cry") reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100.  "Fergalicious" and "Clumsy" also reached the top five in the US.

[[We Invented the Remix]]

CATEGORIES: Remix albums, 2002 albums

We Invented the Remix is a remix album by P. Diddy with the Bad Boy Family, released on May 14, 2002. It features remixes of hit singles by artists from Diddy's Bad Boy Records record label. The album reached the top of the U.S. Billboard 200 albums chart for a week and was later certified Platinum for shipments of over 1,000,000 copies. The album also reached #17 in the UK on the UK Albums Chart. The album featured the hit singles "I Need a Girl (Part 1)", which reached #2 in the U.S., and "I Need a Girl (Part 2)", which reached #4, a rare occurrence of both parts of the same song both becoming big hits. This was the last album Bad Boy would release under the Arista Records label.

[[Don't Disturb This Groove]]

Don't Disturb This Groove may refer to:

[[Don't Disturb This Groove (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 albums

Don't Disturb This Groove is the fourth studio album recorded by American R&B/electropop band The System. Released by Atlantic Records in 1987, the album became a highlight of The System's career, as it has been the most commercially successful album, surpassing their hugely successful debut, Sweat.  It reached No. 62 on the Billboard 200 and No. 1 on the R&B Albums chart. The album was produced by its band members, David Frank and Mic Murphy.

Successful singles from this album include the band's first (and to date, only) top 10 hit on the pop charts with the contemporary R&B ballad title track, "Don't Disturb This Groove" and urban hit "Nighttime Lover".

Doug E. Fresh is featured on the track "House of Rhythm".

[[MacBook (Retina)]]

The MacBook Retina is a laptop computer made by Apple Inc.. It was introduced in March 2015. It was released on April 4, 2015.

[[Don Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Episcopalians, Deans of the United States House of Representatives, United States representatives from Alaska, US Republican Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, 21st-century American politicians

Donald Edwin "Don" Young (born June 9, 1933) is an American politician. He is a member of the Republican Party who has served as the U.S. Representative for AK since March 1973.

Young became Dean of the United States House of Representatives on December 5, 2017 after the resignation of John Conyers of Michigan. 

[[Dan Sullivan]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American Roman Catholics, Colonels, Harvard University alumni, Military people from Ohio, Businesspeople from Alaska, Businesspeople from Ohio, Politicians from Ohio, United States senators from Alaska, US Republican Party politicians

Daniel Scott "Dan" Sullivan (born November 13, 1964) is an American politician. He is a member of the Republican Party. He became the junior United States Senator from Alaska in January 2015.

[[Don't Disturb This Groove (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Synth-pop, R&B music

Don't Disturb This Groove is a song by American synthpop/R&B duo The System. It is from the 1987 album of the same name. The song was written by The System's David Frank and Mic Murphy. It was released as the album's first single. 

In May 1987, the song reached number one on the Billboard R&B Singles chart, spending one week on top. It was later a hit on the pop chart during the summer of 1987. It peaked at number four on the Hot 100 chart in July. The song officially became the number one song of the summer of 1987.

[[Administrative law]]

CATEGORIES: Law

Administrative law (also called  regulatory law) covers a wide range of procedures by administrative agencies. These agencies include city, county, state or federal government bodies. They may be called commissions, departments, divisions or boards.  

Each may have its own rules and regulations which are usually not found in statutes. These are based on laws passed by a government. Agencies also have the power to enforce these rules and regulations.

[[Blood pheasant]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Asia, Phasianidae

The blood pheasant (Ithaginis cruentus) is a small, short-tailed pheasant. It fairly common in the eastern Himalayas. Its range is across the northern parts of India, Nepal, Bhutan and China. The total number of birds is slowly decreasing. For this reason the species has been evaluated as Least Concern by IUCN in 2009. It is the national bird of the former kingdom of Sikkim. The blood pheasant is the only species in the genus Ithaginis of the pheasant family.

[[Mal Whitfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, African-American track and field athletes, Ambassadors of the United States, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of World War II, American Olympic bronze medalists, American Olympic gold medalists, American Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 1948 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1952 Summer Olympics, Military people from California, Military people from Texas, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, Sportspeople from Texas

Malvin Greston Whitfield (October 11, 1924 – November 18, 2015) was an American former athlete and goodwill ambassador. He was the Olympic champion in the 800 metres at the 1948 and 1952 Summer Olympics. Overall, he is a five-time Olympic medalist (three gold, one silver, one bronze).

Whitfield was born in Bay City, Texas. He moved at age 4 to Watts, Los Angeles. He joined the United States Army Air Forces in 1943 as a member of the Tuskegee Airmen. After World War II he remained in the military, but also enrolled at the Ohio State University. He served inn the Korean War. Whitfield died under hospice care in Washington, D.C. on the night of November 18, 2015 from heart failure, aged 91.

[[Abdelhamid Abaaoud]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, 2015 deaths, People from Brussels-Capital Region, Islamic State people, Kidnappers, People shot dead by law enforcement officers, Robbers, Thieves

Abdelhamid Abaaoud (8 April 1987 – 18 November 2015) was a Belgian Islamic terrorist. He spent his early years in a nicer household, went to a private college and decided to join ISIS After his family advised against his decision. After which His Family disowned him stating that they hope That He was dead .He was suspected of having organized multiple terror attacks in Belgium and France, including the November 2015 Paris attacks. He also went by the names Abou Omar Soussi (أبو عمر السوسي, meaning "from Sous", his Moroccan family's place of origin) and Abou Omar el-Beljiki (أبو عمر البلجيكي, meaning Abou Omar the Belgian).

On 18 November French authorities conducted a raid which ended in the injury of five police officers, two deaths and five arrests. The raid took place in the suburb of Saint-Denis, near Paris, and targeted Abaaoud. Abaaoud was one of those who died in the raid.

[[Battery (crime)]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

Battery is the intentional and offensive or harmful contact with another person. The exact definition varies by jurisdiction. In criminal law the elements of battery are physical contact that causes harm or offensive contact without that person's consent. Battery is often confused with assault which is threatening battery. Battery is when the threat (assault) is carried out and the person is harmed in some way. Criminal battery and civil battery may be the same or differ slightly depending on jurisdiction. In many cases the act of battery can result in both criminal and civil liability.

[[Salatyn Asgarova]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 1991 deaths, Journalists, National Hero of Azerbaijan, Murders by firearm

Salatyn Aziz qizi Asgarova (Salatın Əziz qızı Əsgərova; Салатын Аскерова; 16 December 1961 – 9 January 1991) is a National Hero of Azerbaijan. She was one of the Azerbaijani journalists killed in the Nagorno-Karabakh War.

[[Shadi Sadr]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, 1974 births, Living people, Human rights activists, Lawyers, Iranian journalists, BBC 100 Women

Shadi Sadr (شادی صدر; born 1974) is an Iranian human rights lawyer, journalist, and activist for women's rights.  In 2010 Sadr received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Neurosecretion]]

CATEGORIES: Neuroendocrinology

Neurosecretion is when nerve cells make, store and release hormones. 

The hormonal system of the body is almost entirely controlled by the central nervous system. It normally does this by sending nerve impulses down axons to a gland. However, some special nerve cells can make hormones themselves, and deliver them to glands which act as storage organs. The neurons of the neuroendocrine system are large; they are mini factories for producing secretory products. These cells are called neurosecretory cells, and they make neurohormones.

Most neurohormones are secreted from nerve cells in the hypothalamus of the brain which (either immediately, or after storage) circulate in the blood. They are similar to normal endocrine cells and glands because they regulate both endocrine and nonendocrine cells. 

There are also neuroendocrine cells in the adrenal glands, which are just above the kidneys. They are called chromaffin cells, and they release epinephrine (adrenaline) and norepinephrine (noradrenaline).

[[Ironclad warship]]

CATEGORIES: Warships

An ironclad is a ship protected by iron or steel armor plates. The first recorded use of an ironclad was during the Japanese invasion of Korea. Western use of ironclads began about the second half of the 19th century. The Western ironclad  was developed because up to then wooden warships were easily damaged by explosive or incendiary shells.

[[Noble orchid]]

CATEGORIES: Orchids

The Noble Orchid (Cymbidium goeringii) is a cold hardy evergreen Orchid. It is a dwarf plant that blooms in the spring. Its petals are green, yellow-green or brown. It has pseudobulbs found below ground. The leaves are long and grass-like with serrated edges. It is found growing as far north as Okushiri Island (42 degrees north latitude). It can stand freezing temperatures over the winter months. It has been grown in China for over 2500 years, dating back before the time of Confucius. In Japan it has been cultivated for several hundred years. In Europe the earliest records date it to 1780.

[[Ahmad]]

CATEGORIES: Arabic words and phrases, Given names

Ahmad, also spelt Ahmed and Ahmet, is an Arabic word meaning "highly praised". The spelings are Ahmad, Ahmet and Ahmed. It is used in Arabic countries like Somalia, Djibouti, Algeria, and Saudi Arabia.

[[Fred Tatasciore]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American stand-up comedians, American voice actors

Fred Tatasciore (born June 13, 1968) is an American voice actor who has done many voice works in various films, shows and video games.

[[Beata Szydło]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Poland, Polish Roman Catholics, Mayors

Beata Maria Szydło (*15th April 1963 in Oświęcim, Poland) - is a Polish politician, deputy of Parliament of Poland since 2005. She became Prime Minister of Poland on 16 November 2015. She's a member of Prawo i Sprawiedliwość (Law and Justice). She left the Prime Minister office on 11 December 2017 and was replaced by Mateusz Morawiecki.

[[Nuremberg principles]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms, International law, Nuremberg trials

The Nuremberg principles were a set of guidelines for determining what constitutes a war crime. The document was created by the International Law Commission of the United Nations to codify the legal principles underlying the Nuremberg Trials of Nazi party members following World War II.

[[Codification (law)]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, International law

In law, codification is the process of collecting and restating the law of a jurisdiction. They are listed, usually by subject, forming a legal code (a codex  or book of law). Codification is the defining feature of civil law jurisdictions.

[[Armand (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Activists, Dutch singers, People from Eindhoven

Herman George van Loenhout (10 April 1946 – 19 November 2015), better known as Armand, was a Dutch protest singer. He was born in Eindhoven. His greatest hit song was "Ben ik te min" ("Am I not worthy?"). He mostly sang songs about legalizing marijuana in The Netherlands.

Armand died in Eindhoven of pneumonia at the age of 69.

[[Kitanoumi Toshimitsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2015 deaths, Japanese sumo wrestlers, People from Hokkaido, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Deaths from colorectal cancer

Kitanoumi Toshimitsu (北の湖敏満 Obata Toshimitsu; May 16, 1953 – November 20, 2015) was a Japanese sumo wrestler. He was the dominant yokozuna in sumo during the 1970s. Kitanoumi was promoted to yokozuna at age 21, becoming the youngest ever to achieve sumo's top rank, and he remained a yokozuna for a record 63 tournaments.  

He won 24 tournament championships during his career. Following his retirement in 1985 he established Kitanoumi stable. He was chairman of the Japan Sumo Association from 2002 until 2008, and from 2012 until his death. 

Kitanoumi died of multiple organ failure caused by colorectal cancer on the evening of November 20, 2015, aged 62. He was in Fukuoka for the Kyushu tournament and was taken to hospital for anemia in the morning, after which his condition deteriorated.

[[Keith Michell]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Adelaide, Australian stage actors, Australian television actors, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Keith Michell (1 December 1926 – 20 November 2015) was an Australian actor. He was best known for his television and movie roles as King Henry VIII of England. He was born in Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. Michell made appearances on the mystery series Murder, She Wrote, playing Dennis Stanton.  He was the artistic director of the Chichester Festival Theatre from 1974 to 1977.

Michell died on 20 November 2015 in London, England of a heart attack, aged 88.

[[Allen E. Ertel]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, United States representatives from Pennsylvania, US Democratic Party politicians

Allen Edward Ertel (November 7, 1936 – November 19, 2015) was an American politician. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He was born in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. He was a former member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Pennsylvania serving from January 3, 1977 through January 3, 1983. He lost re-election to Republican George Gekas in an upset election.

Ertel died from a heart attack in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, aged 79.

[[A Head Full of Dreams]]

CATEGORIES: Coldplay albums, 2015 albums

A Head Full of Dreams is the seventh hit studio album by rock-pop band Coldplay. Coldplay recorded A Head Full of Dreams from summer 2014 to autumn 2015. The single "Adventure of a Lifetime" is featured in the album. The album was released on December 4, 2015.

[[John Langdon]]

CATEGORIES: 1741 births, 1819 deaths, American Calvinists, Congregationalists, Deaths from pneumonia, Governors of New Hampshire, People from Portsmouth, New Hampshire, Presidents pro tempore of the United States Senate, United States senators from New Hampshire

John Langdon (June 26, 1741spaced ndashSeptember 18, 1819) was an American politician. He was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. He served as a delegate to the Constitutional Convention signed the United States Constitution.

He was a politician born in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. He was one of the first two United States senators from that state. Langdon was an early supporter of the Revolutionary War and served in the Continental Congress.

After being in Congress for 12 years, including serving as the first president pro tempore of the Senate. Langdon became governor of New Hampshire. He turned down a nomination for vice presidential candidate in 1812.

Langdon died in Portsmouth, New Hampshire from pneumonia at the age of 78.

[[Balakh Sher Mazari]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Pakistan

Sardar Mir Balakh Sher Mazari (بلخ شیر مزاری) (born 8 July 1928) is a Pakistani politician. He served as the Prime Minister of Pakistan from 18 April 1993 through 26 May 1993. He replaced Nawaz Sharif.

[[Ameen Faheem]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Indian politicians, Pakistani politicians, Civil servants

Makhdoom Muhammad Ameen Faheem (مخدوم محمد امین فھیم; alt. spelling: Amin Fahim; 4 August 1939 – 21 November 2015), was a Indian-born Pakistani populist left-wing figure and a poet. He was the senior vice-chairman of Pakistan Peoples Party. He was also the chairman of Pakistan People's Party Parliamentarians and former chairman of Alliance for Restoration of Democracy. He served as the Commerce Minister of Pakistan serving from 3 November 2008 through 16 March 2013.

Faheem died on 21 November 2015 from leukemia after being admitted to a hospital in Karachi, Pakistan under ICU at the age of 76.

[[Tamarillo]]

CATEGORIES: Solanaceae

Tamarillo is a shrub or tree in the flowering species Solanaceae. It bears an egg-shaped edible fruit, also called a tamarillo. The fruit is about 4-10 centimeters long. The taste is similar to that of a tomato, but with less sweet and more of a salty flavour.

The tamarillo is native to the Andes of Ecuador, Colombia, Peru, Chile,  and Bolivia.

[[French national volleyball team]]

CATEGORIES: National volleyball teams, Sport in France

The France national men's volleyball team is the national volleyball team of France. It represents France in international competitions and friendly matches. It has been the reigning European Champion since 2015. It is ranked 10th (as of August 2016) in the FIVB World Ranking after playing in the 2016 Rio Olympics.

[[Great Wall]]

CATEGORIES: Lists, Cosmology

The Great Walls are the largest known structures in the universe. They are based on  data set mapping of gamma-ray bursts (GRBs). The mapping found an unusually high concentration of similarly distanced GRBs in certain areas.

Structures larger than  1,200,000,000 light years are incompatible with the cosmological principle according to all estimates.

[[Cosmological principle]]

CATEGORIES: Cosmology

In modern physical cosmology, the cosmological principle is a prediction based on the idea that the universe is about the same in all places when viewed on a large scale.

Forces are expected to act uniformly throughout the universe. There should, therefore, be no observable irregularities in the large scale structure. The structure is the result of the evolution of the matter field after the Big Bang.

Astronomer William Keel explains:

The two testable consequences of the cosmological principle are homogeneity and isotropy. Homogeneity means that the same observational evidence is available to observers at different locations in the universe ("the part of the universe which we can see is a fair sample"). Isotropy means that the same observational evidence is available by looking in any direction in the universe ("the same physical laws apply throughout"). The principles are closely related, because a universe that appears isotropic from any two (for a spherical geometry, three) locations must also be homogeneous.

[[Innervisions]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Funk albums

Innervisions is the sixteenth studio album by American musician Stevie Wonder. It was released August 3, 1973 by Tamla. Wonder would release his next album Fulfillingness' First Finale the following year. All of the songs on Innverisions were written by Wonder.

[[Lube Volleyball Club]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball clubs, 1990 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in Italy, Sport in Italy

Cucine Lube Civitanova is a professional volleyball team based in Civitanova Marche, Italy. Since 1995, the club has been playing in Serie A of Italian Volleyball League. Club won Italian Championship three times, Italian Cup four-times, Italian SuperCup three-times, CEV Champions League in 2002, 2019, CEV Cup in 2002, 2005, 2006, CEV Challenge Cup 2011 and FIVB Men's Club World Volleyball Championship in 2019.

[[25 (Adele album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 albums, Adele albums, Pop albums, Soul albums, R&B albums

25 is the third studio album by English singer-songwriter Adele. It was released on November 20, 2015.  There are eleven tracks on the album.  The lead single from the album, "Hello", was released on October 23, 2015. It reached number one in the UK, US, Canada, and Australia. It was number one across Europe including Germany, France, Russia and Italy. It hit number ten in Japan. 25 marks Adele's return to music after her recording of the Bond theme "Skyfall" in 2012, along with the birth of her son Angelo that year.  She has worked with producers who have worked with Pink, Kelly Clarkson, Britney Spears, and Taylor Swift.  She also worked with Bruno Mars on the song "All I Ask".  Five other songs charted from the album on the Billboard Hot 100, even though they were not released as singles at the time.  They were "Send My Love (To Your New Lover)", "When We Were Young", "Remedy", "All I Ask", and "Water Under the Bridge".

25 has officially broken the record for the most albums sold in a week in the US by selling 3.38 million copies.  It has gone on to sell over 4 million copies in the US alone after only two weeks of release.  The album has been certified Diamond in the United States for sales and streams of more than 10 million copies in that country alone.  The album was not made available on streaming sites such as Spotify and Apple Music.  On November 20, 2016, a year after 25 was released, Billboard reported that the album sold over 9.1 million copies in the US alone, not including any streams of the album.

Adele has stated that 25 was a "make-up record," compared to her previous album, 21, being a "breakup record."  The song "Sweetest Devotion" was written about her son Angelo, who was born in October 2012.

On December 14, 2015, Billboard said that "When We Were Young" has been chosen as the second single from 25. When this was announced, the song had charted as high as number 22 on the Billboard Hot 100 and reached number 14. It has been certified Platinum in the United States.

The third single, "Send My Love (To Your New Lover)", was released on May 16, 2016.  The music video premiered at the 2016 Billboard Music Awards on May 22, where 25 won the award for Top Billboard 200 Album.  "Send My Love" reached number eight on the Billboard Hot 100 in the US and the top five in the UK.  It was certified Platinum in the United States.

The fourth single, "Water Under the Bridge", was released on November 4, 2016.  So far, it reached number 51 on the Billboard Hot 100.

25 won two awards at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in 2017 for Best Pop Vocal Album and Album of the Year.

[[Aswan Dam]]

Aswan Dam might refer to:

[[Walter Tull]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1918 deaths, British military personnel of World War I, English footballers, Military people killed in World War I, People from Folkestone, Sportspeople from Kent, Sportspeople from London, Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players

Walter Daniel John Tull (28 April 1888 – 25 March 1918) was an English professional  footballer. He played as an inside forward for Tottenham Hotspur and Northampton Town. He was the second person of mixed race to play in the top division of the Football League. He was the first mixed-race British outfielder in the top division of English football. His professional football career began after he was spotted while playing for his local amateur club, Clapton F.C..  He began playing for Clapton in 1908. Within a few months he had won winners' medals in the FA Amateur Cup, London County Amateur Cup and London Senior Cup. In March 1909 the Football Star called him "the catch of the season".

Tull was brought up in a National Children's Home orphanage in Bethnal Green, London, along with his brother. They were placed there following the death of their parents. He joined Tottenham in 1909 and transferred to Northampton Town in 1911, where he made 111 first-team appearances.

During the First World War, Tull served in the Footballers' Battalion of the Middlesex Regiment. He fought in the Battle of the Somme in 1916. Tull was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant on 30 May 1917. This was in spite of the fact there was a ban on black people being given that status.

Tull fought in Italy in 1917–18. He was noted for his "gallantry and coolness" while leading his company of 26 men on a raiding party into enemy territory. He returned to France in 1918. Tull was killed in action on 25 March during the Spring Offensive. His body was never recovered.

Campaigners have called for a statue to be erected in his honour. Northampton South MP Brian Binley has campaigned for Tull to be posthumously awarded the Military Cross. He was honoured with a commemorative plaque in London placed close to where he lived. A Walter Tull commemorative coin is part of a set of £5 coins released by the Royal Mint.

[[Westfield, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indiana

Westfield is a city in the state of Indiana, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 30,068.

[[Moheener Ghoraguli]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 1976, 1976 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in India, Musical groups disestablished in 1981, 20th century disestablishments in India, Musical groups established in 1995, 1995 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in India, Musical groups disestablished in 1999, 1990s disestablishments in Asia, 1980s disestablishments in Asia

Moheener Ghoraguli were an Bengali independent music group that became famous in the 1990s. They performed for more than 10 years. They are famous for their lyrical theme. Most of their albums are concept albums, which means every song is linked through a theme. Their first album was the Shongbigno Pakhikul O Kolkata Bishayak, which was released in 1977. Their latest album is Khyapar Gaan, which was released in 1999. The band were named actually taken from a poem "Ghora" ('Horses') from the poetry book Shatti Tarar Timir by the great modernist Bengali poet Jibanananda Das. In 2008, they played at a concert called Abar Bochhor Tirish Pore. The original line up was Gautam Chattopadhyay, Biswanath Chattopadhyay, Pradip Chattopadhyay, Ranjon Ghoshal, Abraham Mazumdar, Tapas Das and Tapesh Bandopadhyay. They have made some very popular albums including Shongbigno Pakhikul O Kolkata Bishayak and Aabaar Bochhor Kuri Pore.

[[Trust law]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

In law a trust is a relationship where property is held by one party for the benefit of another party. A trust is created by the owner, also called a "settlor", "trustor" or "grantor"  who transfers property to a trustee. The trustee holds that property for the trust's beneficiaries. Trusts exist mainly in common law jurisdictions. They have existed since Roman times.

== Basics of trusts == 

When an owner of property places that property into trust, he or she turns over part or all of his or her rights to the trustee. This separates the property's legal ownership and control from its settlor's ownership and benefits. This controls the property and its benefits if the settlor is absent, incapacitated, or dead. Trusts are frequently created in wills, defining how money and property will be handled for children or other beneficiaries.

The trustee is given legal title to the trust property, but has an obligation to act for the good of the beneficiaries. The benefits of the trust belong to the beneficiary. The trustee may be compensated and have expenses reimbursed. But the trustee must otherwise turn over all profits from the trust properties. Trustees who don't do this are self-dealing. Courts can reverse self dealing actions, order profits returned, and impose other sanctions.

The trustee may be either a individual, a company, or a public body. There may be a single trustee or multiple co-trustees. The trust is governed by the terms under which it was created. In most jurisdictions, this requires a contractual trust agreement or deed.

Advantages of a trust may include:

[[Toulouse Business School]]

CATEGORIES: Education in France, Toulouse

Toulouse Business School is a European higher studies establishment. The school is in 5 places, in Paris and Toulouse, France, in the United Kingdom (London), in Spain (Barcelona) and in Morocco (Casablanca), where it is a university.  It is one of the oldest business schools in the world, established in 1903.  It presents itself as "Think and Create".

TBS is well-known for its aviation management degrees in partnership with the French Civil Aviation University.

[[John Bel Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Governors of Louisiana, US Democratic Party politicians

John Bel Edwards (born September 16, 1966) is an American attorney and Democratic Party politician. He is the Governor of Louisiana since January 2016. He was elected on November 21, 2015. He was a member of and the Minority Leader of the Louisiana House of Representatives, having represented the 72nd District from 2008 through 2016.

Edwards was born in Amite City, Louisiana. Many of his family members have been police officers, and in the 19th century they owned a lot of slaves. Edwards was an officer in the United States Army then a lawyer before he decided to run for governor.

[[Joseph Silverstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, American conductors, American educators, American violinists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Massachusetts, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Musicians from Detroit, Michigan, Musicians from Boston, Massachusetts

Joseph Silverstein (March 21, 1932 – November 22, 2015) was an American violinist and conductor. He was born in Detroit, Michigan.

In 1962, Silverstein became concertmaster of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, a job he held for 22 years. He was appointed assistant conductor in 1971. He was music director of the Utah Symphony from 1983 to 1998. He has served as a professor of violin at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia.

Silverstein died on November 21, 2015 in Boston, Massachusetts from a heart attack at the age of 83.

[[Linda Haglund]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2015 deaths, 1972 Summer Olympics, 1976 Summer Olympics, 1980 Summer Olympics, Cancer deaths in Sweden, Deaths from lung cancer, Sprinters, Swedish Olympians

Linda Haglund   (15 June 1956 – 21 November 2015) was a Swedish Olympic sprinter. Her running career would take her to the 1972, 1976 and 1980 Summer Olympics. Haglund had her best Olympic Games' showing with a fourth place in the Moscow Games' 100 m final.  

Haglund died from complications of lung cancer on 21 November 2015, aged 59.

[[Bob Foster]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, African-American boxers, Sportspeople from Texas, Sportspeople from Albuquerque, New Mexico

Robert Lloyd "Bob" Foster (April 27, 1942 – November 21, 2015) was an American light heavyweight and heavyweight professional boxer. 

[[Chester W. Nimitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1966 deaths, Admirals, American military personnel of World War I, American military personnel of World War II, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from stroke, Infectious disease deaths in California, Military people from Texas

Chester William Nimitz, Sr. (ˈ; February 24, 1885spaced ndashFebruary 20, 1966) was an American fleet admiral of the United States Navy. He played a major role in the naval history of World War II as Commander in Chief, United States Pacific Fleet (CinCPac), for U.S. naval forces and Commander in Chief, Pacific Ocean Areas (CinCPOA), for U.S. and Allied air, land, and sea forces during World War II.

Nimitz was born in Fredericksburg, Texas. He studied at the United States Naval Academy. Nimitz died in Yerba Buena Island, San Francisco, California from pneumonia caused by a stroke, aged 80.

[[Tower Commission]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 in the United States, Presidency of Ronald Reagan

The Tower Commission was created on 26 November 1986 by U.S. President Ronald Reagan in response to the Iran Contra scandal. Reagan appointed Republican and former Senator John Tower of Texas, former Secretary of State Edmund Muskie, and former National Security Advisor Brent Scowcroft.

The Commission's report, published on 26 February 1987, concluded that CIA Director William Casey, who supported the Iran-Contra arrangement, should have taken over the operation and made the President aware of the risks and notified Congress as legally required. 

The Commission's work was continued by the Congressional Committees Investigating The Iran-Contra Affair, which were formed in January 1987 and published a report in November 1987; and by Independent Counsel Lawrence Walsh, appointed 1 December 1986 and publishing a final report in 1993.

[[Oskar Fischer]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2020 deaths, Czechoslovak people, Ambassadors of Germany, Government ministers of East Germany, Members of the Volkskammer, Politicians of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany

Oskar Fischer (19 March 1923 – 2 April 2020) was an East German politician. He was Minister of Foreign Affairs of the German Democratic Republic from 1975 to 1990. Fischer was the first member of the East German cabinet to visit Pope John Paul II at the Vatican in 1978. He was born in Aš, Czechoslovakia.

Fischer died on 2 April 2020 in Berlin, aged 97.

[[Allan MacEachen]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, Canadian politicians, Civil servants, People from Nova Scotia, Deputy Prime Ministers of Canada, Members of the House of Commons of Canada

Allan Joseph MacEachen, OC (July 6, 1921 – September 12, 2017) was a Canadian politician. He was born in Inverness, Nova Scotia. He was the first Deputy Prime Minister of Canada, serving from 1977 to 1979 and 1980 to 1984 during Pierre Trudeau tenure as prime minister. In 2008, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada.

MacEachen died on September 12, 2017 at the age of 96.

[[Dhawalagiri Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Zones of Nepal

Dhawalagiri (धौलागिरी अञ्चलDhaulagiri Zone.ogg) is one of the fourteen administrative zones of Nepal. According to 2001 census, It has a population of 556,191.

[[Trentino Volleyball Club]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball clubs, Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, Sport in Italy, 2000 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in Italy

Trentino Volley is a professional volleyball team  based in Trento, in northern Italy. It has played in the Italian Volleyball League without interruption since 2000. It has won the Italian Volleyball League (four times), the Italian Cup, the Italian Super Cup, the CEV Champions League (three consecutive times) and the FIVB Men's Club World Volleyball Championship (a record four consecutive times). In the 2010–11 season it won national, continental and world championships. It is the first and only team in volleyball history to have done that.

[[Culex]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases, Insects

Culex (also called the common house mosquito) is a genus of mosquitoes. It includes several species of mosquitoes that vector (carry and transmit) one or more important diseases between birds, humans and other animals. The diseases they vector include West Nile virus, as well as arbovirus and filariasis infections. A connection between Culex mosquitoes and malaria was first shown by Major Ronald Ross of the British Army. Ross received a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1902 for his work.

[[Eulerian path]]

CATEGORIES: Graph theory

Eulerian path is a notion from graph theory. A eulerian path in a graph is one that visits each edge of the graph once only. A Eulerian circuit or  Eulerian cycle is an Eulerian path which starts and ends on the same vertex.

[[Fulfillingness' First Finale]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Funk albums

Fulfillingness' First Finale is the seventeenth studio album by American musician Stevie Wonder. It was released on July 22, 1974 by Tamla. Wonder would release his next album Songs in the Key of Life in 1976, two years after Fulfillingness' First Finale.

[[Songs in the Key of Life]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Funk albums

Songs in the Key of Life is the eighteenth studio album by American recording artist Stevie Wonder. It was released on September 28, 1976, by Tamla.

[[Hohmann transfer orbit]]

CATEGORIES: Orbits, Spaceflight

In orbital mechanics, a Hohmann transfer orbit moves a spacecraft between orbiting heights. It is the most fuel-efficient method to do so, because the spacecraft is not trying to escape the planet's gravity, using an elliptical orbit for the transfer.  

A ship using this would have to apply two velocities, one to enter the elliptical orbit, and one to enter the second orbit.     

[[Mauricio Macri]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Mayors, People from Buenos Aires, Presidents of Argentina

Mauricio Macri (mauˈɾisjo ˈmakɾi; born 8 February 1959) is an Argentine civil engineer, businessman and politician. He was the 53rd President of Argentina from 10 December 2015 through 10 December 2019. He was the  Mayor of Buenos Aires serving from 10 December 2007 through 10 December 2015.

[[Selwa Roosevelt]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Civil servants, Politicians from Tennessee

Selwa Carmen Showker “Lucky” Roosevelt (born January 13, 1929) is a retired-American civil servant. She served as Chief of Protocol of the United States for almost seven years from 1982 through 1989 during the Ronald Reagan presidency. She was married to, Archibald Bulloch Roosevelt, Jr., the grandson of President Theodore Roosevelt.

[[James W. Symington]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, People from Rochester, New York, Politicians from New York, United States representatives from Missouri, US Democratic Party politicians

James Wadsworth Symington (ˈ; born September 28, 1927 in Rochester, New York) is a American attorney and politician. He served as four-term member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1969 to 1977, representing Missouri for the Democratic Party. His father was United States senator Stuart Symington.

[[Cavit Şadi Pehlivanoğlu]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Turkish businesspeople, Civil servants, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Turkey, Turkish lawyers, Turkish politicians

Cavit Şadi Pehlivanoğlu (1927 – 21 November 2015) was a Turkish statesman. He served as a legislator of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for three terms between 1961 through 1996. He was the first as a member of Justice Party (Turkey) and then as the Vice President of Motherland Party (Turkey), that he founded together with President Turgut Özal and others.

Pehlivanoğlu died on November 21, 2015 in Ordu, Turkey from complications of pneumonia, aged 88.

[[Norman Tebbit]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, British military people, English journalists, Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Middlesex, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992

Norman Beresford Tebbit, Baron Tebbit, CH, PC (born 29 March 1931) is a British politician. A member of the Conservative Party, he served in the Cabinet from 1981 to 1987 as Secretary of State for Employment (1981–83), Secretary of State for Trade and Industry (1983–85), Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster (1985–87) and Chairman of the Conservative Party (1985–87). 

He was a member of parliament (MP) from 1970 to 1992, representing the constituencies of Epping (1970–74) and Chingford (1974–92).

[[Douglas Hurd]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, Secretaries of State for the Home Department, Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People educated at Eton College, People from Wiltshire, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997

Douglas Richard Hurd, Baron Hurd of Westwell (born 8 March 1930) is a British Conservative politician. He served in the governments of Margaret Thatcher and John Major from 1979 to 1995.

He was born in the market town of Marlborough in Wiltshire. Hurd first entered Parliament in February 1974 as MP for the Mid Oxfordshire constituency (Witney from 1983). His first government post was as Minister for Europe from 1979 to 1983 (being that office's inaugural holder) and he served in several Cabinet roles since 1984. 

His jobs include Secretary of State for Northern Ireland (1984–85), Home Secretary (1985–89) and Foreign Secretary (1989–95).  He stood unsuccessfully for the Conservative Party leadership in 1990, but retired from frontline politics during a Cabinet reshuffle in 1995.

In 1997, Hurd was elevated to the House of Lords and is one of the Conservative Party's most senior elder statesmen. He is a patron of the Tory Reform Group and remains an active figure in public life.

[[Herbert Scarf]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American economists, American educators, Scientists from New York City, Scientists from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Herbert Eli Scarf (July 25, 1930 – November 15, 2015) was an American economist and professor emeritus of Economics at Yale University (2010-2015). 

He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences and the American Philosophical Society. He served as the president of the Econometric Society in 1983. He received both the Frederick Lanchester Award in 1973 and the John von Neumann Medal in 1983 from the Operations Research Society of America and was elected as a Distinguished Fellow of the American Economic Association in 1991.

Scarf was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He studied at Princeton University and at Temple University. Scarf died at his home in Sig Harbor, New York from heart failure, aged 85.

[[Yoram Tsafrir]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, Archaeologists, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Israeli academics, Israeli Jews, Jewish academics

Yoram Tsafrir (30 January 1938 in Kfar Azar – 23 November 2015) was an Israeli archaeologist. His research has included the Byzantine influence on ancient synagogues, demography of Palestine in the Byzantine period. He led excavations at Beit She'an, and at Rehoboth. He was Professor Emeritus in the University of Hebrew, University of Jerusalem, and in the Institute of Archaeology. He was a member of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities.

Tsafrir died in a hospital in Jerusalem, Israel from a heart attack at the age of 77.

[[Litchfield, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine

Litchfield is a town in Kennebec County, Maine, United States. The population was 3,624 at the 2010 census. Litchfield is included in the Augusta, Maine micropolitan.

Litchfield was incorporated in 1795. It was originally known as Smithtown Plantation.

[[North Pole, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Idaho

North Pole is a small unincorporated community in the U.S. state of Idaho.

[[Kostandin Shpataraku]]

CATEGORIES: Painters, Albanian people

Kostandin Shpataraku (flourished 1736–67) was an Albanian painter of 18th century. 

[[Elastin]]

CATEGORIES: Animal tissues

Elastin is part of connective tissue. It is an elastic protein which allows many tissues in the body to go back to their shape after stretching or contracting. Elastin helps skin return to its original position when handled. Elastin is also used in places where mechanical energy is stored.  

Elastin is important in blood vessels because it helps blood to flow. It is common in large elastic blood vessels such as the aorta.  Elastin is also very important in the lungs, ligaments, the skin, the bladder, and elastic cartilage. It is present in all vertebrates above the jawless fish.

In humans, elastin is encoded by the ELN gene.

[[Icterid]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri

The Icteridae are a family of small to medium-sized New World songbirds. They are usually brightly colored. Most species have black as a main plumage color, often enlivened by yellow, orange or red. The family is extremely varied in size, shape, behavior and coloration. 

This group includes the New World blackbirds, New World orioles, the bobolink, meadowlarks, grackles, cowbirds, oropendolas and caciques. Despite their similar names, they are only distantly related to the Old World common blackbird (which is a thrush) or the Old World orioles.

Icterids are unusual in songbirds because they have considerable sexual dimorphism. For example, the male great-tailed grackle is 60% heavier than the female. The smallest icterid species is the orchard oriole, in which the female averages 15 cm in length (6 in) and 18 in weight, while the largest is the Amazonian oropendola, the male of which measures 52 and weighs about 550. This variation in size is greater than usual in passerine families. 

One unusual adaptation shared by the icterids is gaping, where the skull allows them to open their bills strongly rather than passively. This lets them force open gaps to get at hidden food.

[[Amanda Holden]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Actors from Hampshire, English movie actors, English singers, English stage actors, English television actors, Musicians from Hampshire, People from Portsmouth, Television personalities from Hampshire

Amanda Holden (born 16 February 1971) is an English actress, singer and presenter. She hosts Britain's Got Talent on ITV. She played Mel in the TV series Kiss Me Kate. She also played Geraldine Titley in the TV comedy-drama series The Grimleys. Furthermore, Holden appeared in Smack the Pony, EastEnders, Celeb, Hearts and Bones and Cutting It.

Holden was born in Portsmouth, Hampshire, England.

[[Thoroughly Modern Millie (musical)]]

CATEGORIES: West End musicals, Broadway musicals, Tony Award winning musicals

Thoroughly Modern Millie is a 2002 musical, with lyrics by Dick Scanlan and music by Jeanine Tesori. It is based on the 1967 movie of the same name. It is about a girl from Kansas, Millie Dillmount, who comes to New York City in the 1920s to marry for money rather than love. Millie begins to soon take delight in the flapper lifestyle. However, problems arise when she checks into a hotel owned by a the leader of a white slavery ring in China.

Thoroughly Modern Millie is a pastiche musical, imitating the style of the original movie. It won a 2002 Tony Award for best musical. It played in London and New York City.

[[Looking Back (Stevie Wonder album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 albums, Greatest hits albums, R&B albums, Soul albums

Looking Back, and also called Anthology, is a triple LP anthology by American musician Stevie Wonder. It was released on November 30, 1977 on Motown Records.

[[Stevie Wonder's Journey through the Secret Life of Plants]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Electronica albums

Stevie Wonder's Journey Through "The Secret Life of Plants" is an album by Stevie Wonder, originally released on the Tamla label on October 30, 1979. It was also the soundtrack to the documentary The Secret Life of Plants, directed by Walon Green.

[[Mýa]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American R&B singers, American R&B musicians, American hip hop musicians

Mýa Marie Harrison (born October 10, 1979) (ˈ) is an American singer, songwriter, dancer and actress. She first became famous in 1998 with her debut album Mýa. She is best known for the 2001 cover of the famous R&B song "Lady Marmalade".

[[Mýa (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 albums, Debut albums, Hip hop soul albums, R&B albums

ýa' (1998)

Mýa is the self-titled debut studio album by American recording artist Mýa. It was her first studio album for then-record label Interscope Records released April 21, 1998. When the album was released Mýa was a teenager.

[[Moodring]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Hip hop albums, Hip hop soul albums, R&B albums

Moodring is the third studio album by American recording artist Mýa. It was her last studio album for then joint record label A&M and Interscope Records, released on July 22, 2003.

[[Varduhi Varderesyan]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Armenian actors, Entertainers from Bucharest, Soviet actors

Varduhi Varderesyan (Վարդուհի Վարդերեսյան; 19 March 1928 – 24 November, 2015) was an Romanian-born Armenian actress. She was born in Bucharest, Romania. In 2002 she was declared an honorary citizen of Yerevan. She was known for her roles in Looking for the Addressee, Northern Rainbow, Hayrik, and in The Journey.

Varderesyan died in Yerenvan, Armenia at the age of 87.

[[Manmeet Bhullar]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, 2015 deaths, Road accident deaths, Politicians from Alberta, Civil servants, People from Calgary

Manmeet Singh Bhullar (March 1, 1980 – November 23, 2015) was a Canadian politician. He was a member of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta who represented the constituency of Calgary-Greenway as a Progressive Conservative.  He served as a cabinet minister from 2011 until the defeat of the Progressive Conservative government in 2015.

Bhullar died in a motor vehicle collision north of Red Deer, Alberta while driving from Calgary to Edmonton on the Queen Elizabeth II highway, on November 23, 2015 at the age of 35. Bhullar had stopped to assist a driver involved in a collision and sustained fatal injuries after he was struck by a semi truck that had lost control descending a hill.

[[Ann Njogu]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Activists, Kenyan people, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Ann Njogu is a lawyer and activist from Kenya. In 2010, she received the International Women of Courage Award. 

[[Lee Ae-ran]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Human rights activists, People from Pyongyang, South Korean people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Lee Ae-ran (Hangul = 이애란; Revised Romanization = I Aeran; McCune–Reischauer = Ri Aeran) (born 1964) is a South Korean activist. In 2010 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Wasted username]]

CATEGORIES: Internet memes, YouTube

A wasted username or wasted account is a user account on a website that was not used very much (or at all) after it was made. A person who makes an account like this is called a namewaster or a name waster.

This word came from YouTube, where many people would post both funny and hateful comments on namewasters' YouTube channels. This was an Internet phenomenon until 2012, when YouTube deleted a lot of these wasted accounts.

[[Chain mail]]

CATEGORIES: Armour

Mail, or chain mail, is a type of armour. It is made of small metal rings linked together in a pattern to form a mesh. The Celts are usually credited with inventing mail armour. Celtic mail was usually made in the form of a vest.

[[Afar Triangle]]

CATEGORIES: East Africa, Archaeological sites in Africa

The Afar Triangle  (or Afar Depression) is a low area bordering on the Red Sea. It is part of the Great Rift Valley in East Africa. 

The area overlaps the borders of Eritrea, Djibouti and the entire Afar region of Ethiopia. 

[[Stabat mater]]

CATEGORIES: Christian hymns

Stabat Mater Dolorosa, often referred to as Stabat Mater, is a 13th-century Catholic hymn to Mary. It has been attributed to the Franciscan Jacopone da Todi and to Innocent III. It is about the Sorrows of Mary.

Like so many other hymns the name of the hymn is made of the first few words. This is called an incipit. The first line reads Stabat mater dolorosa ("The sorrowful mother stood"). The Stabat Mater hymn is about the suffering of Mary, Jesus Christ's mother, during his crucifixion. It is sung at the liturgy on the memorial of Our Lady of Sorrows. The Stabat Mater has been set to music by many composers, among them Palestrina, Pergolesi, Alessandro Scarlatti and Domenico Scarlatti, Vivaldi, Haydn, Rossini, Dvořák, George Henschel, Karol Szymanowski, Poulenc and Arvo Pärt.

In the 16th centry, the hymn was added to the Roman missal. The Council of Trent banned it, like most sequences. In the 18th century it was added to the Breviary of Roman Catholic mass. The Second Vactican Council abolished this form of mass, so it is only part of regular mass one day of the year. The current version can be found in the Roman Gradual, which dates of 1973.

[[Rhododendron niveum]]

CATEGORIES: Rhododendron, Plants of Asia

Rhododendron niveum is a Rhododendron species. It is native to northeastern India (including Sikkim), Bhutan, and southern Tibet. It grows at altitudes of 2600–3500 meters. 

It is a shrub or small tree that grows to 2–6 m in height, with leathery leaves 8.5–11 by 3.6–4.6 cm in size. Flowers are magenta to lilac.

[[Dan Fante]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, American playwrights, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Writers from Los Angeles, California

Daniel Smart "Dan" Fante (February 19, 1944 – November 23, 2015) was an American author and playwright. He was born in Los Angeles, California to a family of Italian immigrants. 

He was known for his plays Chump Change, Mooch, 86'd and Spitting Off Tall Buildings. His father was writer John Fante. He was also the author of A Gin-Pissing-Raw-Meat-Dual-Carburetor-V8-Son-Of-A-Bitch From Los Angeles, a volume of poetry on Wrecking Ball Press.

Fante died of cancer in Los Angeles, aged 71.

[[Carlos Oroza]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Galician people, Spanish poets

Carlos Oroza (May 13, 1923 – November 20, 2015) was a Spanish poet. He was born in Viveiro. He was known mainly for the interpretation and performance of his own work. He founded Tropos magazine, a magazine about poetry.

Oroza died of heart failure in Madrid, aged 92.

[[Heinz Oberhummer]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2015 deaths, Austrian scientists, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Austria, Austrian educators, Austrian physicists, Salzburgerland

Heinz Oberhummer (19 May 1941 – 24 November 2015) was an Austrian physicist and skeptic. He was born in Bischofshofen and raised in Obertauern, Austria. Oberhummer was professor emeritus of Theoretical Physics at the Atominstitut of the Vienna University of Technology. His main research area was nucleosynthesis.

Oberhummer died of pneumonia in Vienna, Austria, aged 74.

[[Lennart Hellsing]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2015 deaths, Children's writers, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Sweden, Swedish writers

Paul Lennart Hellsing (5 June 1919 – 25 November 2015) was a Swedish writer and translator. His lasting contribution as a children's writer, Helsing was a finalist in 2010 for the biennial, international Hans Christian Andersen Award, the highest recognition available to creators of children's books. He was born in Västanfors, Sweden. He was known for his rhymes and word plays. He was thought to be an "outstanding poet" in the field of humour and nonsense writing.

Hellsing died at his home in Stockholm, Sweden of pneumonia on the night of 25 November 2015 surrounded by his family, aged 96.

[[James Mackay, Baron Mackay of Clashfern]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, People from Edinburgh

James Peter Hymers Mackay, Baron Mackay of Clashfern, KT, PC, QC, (born 2 July 1927) is a British advocate.  He served as Dean of the Faculty of Advocates, Lord Advocate, and Lord Chancellor (1987–1997). He is an active member of the House of Lords.

Mackay was born in Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

[[Albin Chalandon]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2020 deaths, Civil servants, Government ministers of France, People from Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Albin Chalandon (11 June 1920 in Reyrieux, Ain – 29 July 2020) was a French politician and a former minister. From 1968 and 1972, he was Minister of Public Works. And from 1986 until 1988, he was Minister of Justice.

He died on 29 July 2020, aged 100.

[[Robert Badinter]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, French lawyers, Government ministers of France, Human rights activists, Jewish activists, Jewish French academics, Jewish French politicians, Jewish lawyers, LGBT rights activists, Politicians from Paris, Socialist Party (France) politicians

Robert Badinter (badɛ̃tɛʁ; born 30 March 1928) is a French criminal law lawyer, university professor, politician and activist of Jewish descent. He is against the death penalty, the abolition of which he successfully sponsored in Parliament in 1981. A member of the Socialist Party (PS), he served as Minister of Justice and then President of the Constitutional Council under François Mitterrand.

[[Charles Thone]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Governors of Nebraska, United States representatives from Nebraska, US Republican Party politicians

Charles Thone (January 4, 1924 – March 7, 2018) was an American politician. He was a member of the Republican Party. He served as the 34th Governor of Nebraska serving from January 4, 1979 through January 6, 1983. He lost re-election to Bob Kerrey. Before being governor, Thone represented Nebraska's 1st congressional district in the United States House of Representatives from January 3, 1971 through January 3, 1979.

Thone was born in Hartington, Nebraska. He studied at the University of Nebraska, Lincoln. Thone died on March 7, 2018 in Lincoln, Nebraska of respiratory failure at age 94.

[[Wayanad]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Kerala

Wayanad district is the 12th District in the state of Kerala in India. Mananthavady, Sulthanbathery, and Vythiri Taluks are all in Wayanad. The name Wayanad comes from Vayal Nadu and it means the land of paddy fields. It is a high, flat land between 700 meters and 2100 meters above sea level. It is in northeaster Kerala, in the Western Ghat mountains. It is next to the states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Wayanad is about 885.92.km2 forest. Most of the people in Wayanad live in tribes. There are also many Nature Resorts in Wayanad for the travelers with great natural view points with silent atmosphere. Wayandad is one of the biggest foreign exchange earners in Kerala because it makes money-earning crops like pepper, cardamom, coffee, tea, and other spices.

[[Universal Children's Day]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations

Universal Children's Day is an annual celebration of children's rights. It is celebrated on the 20th of November each year.

[[Robert McCormick Adams, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2018 deaths, American educators, American anthropologists, American archaeologists, Scientists from Chicago

[[G. Wayne Clough]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, American educators, American engineers, Scientists from Georgia (U.S. state)

Gerald Wayne Clough (born September 24, 1941) is an American educator and engineer. He was the President Emeritus of the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech) and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution (2008-2015). He retired in October 2014. A graduate of Georgia Tech in civil engineering, he was the first alumnus to serve as President of the Institute.

[[Guy Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American basketball players, Sportspeople from Texas, College basketball coaches

Guy Vernon Lewis, II (March 19, 1922 – November 26, 2015) was an American basketball player and coach. He served as the head men's basketball coach at the University of Houston from 1956 to 1986. He was born in Arp, Texas.

Lewis led his Houston Cougars to five appearances in the Final Four of the NCAA Tournament, in 1967, 1968, 1982, 1983, and 1984. He was inducted into National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame in 2007 and the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2013.

Lewis died on the morning of November 26, 2015 at his home in Kyle, Texas from complications following a stroke he suffered about 10 years ago. He was 93 years old.

[[Tex Winter]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Sportspeople from Texas

Morice Fredrick "Tex" Winter (February 25, 1922 – October 10, 2018) was an American retired basketball coach, and innovator of the triangle offense. He was born in Wellington, Texas. 

Winter served as an assistant coach to the Chicago Bulls from the 1985-86 season through the 1998-99 season, during which time the team won six NBA championships.  Most of this time was spent working with head coach Phil Jackson, starting from the 1987-88 season.  He also went with Jackson to the Los Angeles Lakers for five seasons, from 1999 to 2004, winning another three NBA championships.  

Winter had previously head coached the Houston Rockets during the 1971-72 and 1972-73 seasons.

Winter died on October 10, 2018 from complications of a stroke in Manhattan, Kansas at the age of 96.

[[Johnny Bach]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2016 deaths, Boston Celtics players, National Basketball Association coaches, Sportspeople from Brooklyn

John William "Johnny" Bach (July 10, 1924 – January 18, 2016) was an American former professional basketball player and coach. Bach played college basketball at Fordham University and Brown University. He was born in Brooklyn, New York City.

He was selected by the Boston Celtics in the 1948 Basketball Association of America (BAA) Draft, and played 24 games for the Celtics. He coached the Golden State Warriors from 1983 through 1986. He became the assistant coach for the Chicago Bulls from 1986 through 2003. He retired in 2006.

Bach died on January 18, 2016 in Chicago, Illinois at the age of 91.

[[Stevie Wonder's Original Musiquarium]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 albums, Greatest hits albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Funk albums

Stevie Wonder's Original Musiquarium I is a greatest hits album by American musician Stevie Wonder. It was released on May 4, 1982 by Tamla. It is Wonder's second greatest hits album as his first one Looking Back had been released five years before it.

[[The Woman in Red (soundtrack)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Funk albums

The Woman in Red: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the second soundtrack album released by American musician Stevie Wonder on the Motown label on August 28, 1984. Wonder's first soundtrack album Stevie Wonder's Journey through the Secret Life of Plants had been released five years before The Woman in Red.

[[Smoke detector]]

CATEGORIES: Security

A smoke sensor or smoke detector is a device that can detect smoke, which may be an indicator of a fire. There are two basic systems: Simple, standalone sensors usually make a sound or flash a light when they detect smoke. More sophisticated sensors usually send a signal to an fire alarm panel, or system. Most smoke detectors use either an optical sensor, or they use a physical process called ionization. Many simple smoke sensors use batteries. Very often dead batteries are not replaced; when this happens, the smoke sensors stop working.  But, the detector may "chirp" when the battery is low to try and stop this from happening. There are also systems which are directly connected to electrical power; these may use batteries just as a backup.

Smoke detectors are housed in plastic enclosures, typically shaped like a disk about 150 in diameter and 25 thick, but shape and size vary. Smoke can be detected either  optically (photoelectric) or by physical process (ionization); detectors may use either, or both, methods. Sensitive alarms can be used to detect, and thus deter, smoking in areas where it is banned. Smoke detectors in large commercial, industrial, and residential buildings are usually powered by a central fire alarm system, which is powered by the building power with a battery backup. Domestic smoke detectors range from individual battery-powered units, to several interlinked mains-powered units with battery backup; with these interlinked units, if any unit detects smoke, all trigger even if household power has gone out.

[[In Square Circle]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Funk albums

In Square Circle is the twentieth studio album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder. It was released on September 13, 1985 by Tamla. It is his first studio since 1980's Hotter Than July.

[[Characters (Stevie Wonder album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Quiet storm albums

Characters is the twenty-first studio album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder released on November 6, 1987 by Motown. He performed a song on the album called "Get It" with R&B singer-songwriter Michael Jackson.

[[Jungle Fever (soundtrack)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, New jack swing albums

Jungle Fever a soundtrack album by American musician Stevie Wonder to Spike Lee's movie Jungle Fever. It was released by Motown Records on May 28, 1991. It is Wonder's third soundtrack album and the music on the album was very "urban" as they had influences from new jack swing, hip hop as well as R&B and soul.

[[Triatominae]]

CATEGORIES: Hemiptera

The members of Triatominae are a subfamily of Reduviidae. They are also called kissing bugs, conenose bugs, assassin bugs or triatomines. There are more than 130 species in this subfamily. Most of them feed on vertebrate blood. A few species feed on other invertebrates. They are mainly found in the Americas. There are a few species in Asia, Australia and Africa. 

Some of the bugs carry the Chagas disease parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. However, only those species (such as Triatoma infestans and Rhodnius prolixus) well adapted to living with humans are considered important vectors.

[[Donald Crisp]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, 1882 births, 1974 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Naturalized citizens of the United States, English movie actors, English stage actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, Actors from London, Movie directors from London, Movie producers from London, Screenwriters from London

Donald Crisp (born George William Crisp, 27 July 1882spaced ndash25 May 1974) was an English-born American actor, director, producer and screenwriter. He began his career as a silent movie actor. He won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor in 1942 for his role in How Green Was My Valley.

Crisp was born in London, England. He studied at the University of Oxford. Crisp died in Los Angeles, California from a stroke at the age of 91.

[[Martin Karplus]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American chemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Austrian Jews, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Scientists from Vienna, Harvard University faculty

Martin Karplus (born March 15, 1930) is an Austrian-born American theoretical chemist. He is the Theodore William Richards Professor of Chemistry, emeritus at Harvard University. He is also Director of the Biophysical Chemistry Laboratory. He is of Jewish descent.

Karplus received the 2013 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, together with Michael Levitt and Arieh Warshel, for "the development of multiscale models for complex chemical systems".

[[Ezzatolah Entezami]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Iranian actors, People from Tehran

Ezzatolah Entezami (عزت‌الله انتظامی, June 21, 1924 – August 17, 2018) was an Iranian actor. He was born in Tehran, Iran. His first role was as Masht Hassan in the 1969 movie The Cow. He later appeared in many movies such as Mr. Naive, Hamoun, and in 40 Years Old. He also appeared in the television series Hezar Dastan.

Entezami died in Tehran on August 17, 2018 from complications of a stroke at the age of 94.

[[Mohammad-Ali Keshavarz]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from respiratory tract infection, Iranian actors

Mohamad Ali Keshavarz (محمدعلی کشاورز, April 15, 1930 – June 14, 2020) was an Iranian movie and theater actor. He was born in Isfahan, Iran. He was known for his role in the television series Hezar Dastan. He also appeared in movies such as Shabe Quzi, Mr. Naive, and in Del Shodegan.

Keshavarz died from a lung infection on June 14, 2020 in Tehran, aged 90.

[[Jamshid Mashayekhi]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from laryngeal cancer, Iranian actors, People from Tehran

Jamshid Mashayekhi (جمشید مشایخی, 26 November 1934 – 2 April 2019) was an Iranian actor. He was born in Tehran, Iran. Mashayekhi was known for his roles in The Cow, Kaiser, and in Adobe and Mirror. He appeared in the television series Hezar Dastan.

Mashayekhi died on 2 April 2019 at a hospital in Tehran from pneumonia complicated by laryngeal cancer, aged 84.

[[Hezar Dastan]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 television series debuts, 1987 television series endings, Iranian culture

Hezar Dastan or Hezār Dastān (هزاردستان) was a very popular Iranian television series that ran from 1979 through 1987. It is considered toto be one of the greatest television series in Iran. It is set in a fictional town in Iran called Hezar Dastan. It was directed by Ali Hatami. It stars Ezzatolah Entezami, Jamshid Mashayekhi, Mohammad-Ali Keshavarz and Ali Nassirian.

[[Ali Nassirian]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Iranian actors, People from Tehran

Ali Nassirian (علی نصیریان, born 4 February 1935) is an Iranian movie and theater actor. He was born in Tehran, Iran. His career began in 1947 and would last until his retirement in 2008. Nassirian was known for his role in the popular Iranian television series Hezar Dastan (1979-1987). He also appeared in movies such as The Mandrake (1975), Kamalolmolk (1983), Captain Khorshid (1987), and Iron Island (2005). 

[[Sterling Holloway]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1992 deaths, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), American military personnel of World War II, American movie actors, American television actors, American radio actors, American voice actors, Disney actors, Disney people, Grammy Award winners

Sterling Price Holloway Jr. (January 4, 1905 – November 22, 1992) was an American actor and voice actor who appeared in over 100 films and 40 television shows. He was also a voice actor for The Walt Disney Company, well known for his distinctive tenor voice and is perhaps best remembered as the original voice of Winnie the Pooh in the Winnie the Pooh franchise and as Mr. Stork in Dumbo, Adult Flower in Bambi, the Cheshire Cat in Alice in Wonderland, Kaa in The Jungle Book, and Roquefort in The Aristocats.

[[Ghana National Farmers' Day]]

CATEGORIES: Ghana, Holidays, Agriculture

Ghana National Farmers' Day is a national holiday in the Republic of Ghana. It is an annual celebration of farmers and fishermen, celebrated on the first Friday of December.

[[Separatist movements of China]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of China, National liberation movements

The People's Republic of China and the Republic of China insist sole legitimacy of China against each other. Practically, the former is administering Mainland China and the two special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau and the latter is administering the Taiwan area.

[[National Front of Balawaristan]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Kashmir

The party was formed on December 28, 1989 under the Chairmanship of Nawaz Khan Naji. The first time reorganized in July 30 1993. In 1947 at the time of Independence of Pakistan the people of the area were predominantly Shia Muslims.  However over the years the ethnic composition has been changed  as sunni Kashmiri and other Pakistanis have settled in this area leading to discontent - although Shias remain the outright majority.April 2012 A 2008 report by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees determined that Pakistan-administered Kashmir, which included Gilgit-Baltistan, was 'Not Free'. In 2009 as part of Gilgit-Baltistan Empowerment and Self-Governance Order Act of 2009, the region was granted self-rule for the first time with an elected legislature in its history, despite protests from the Republic of India it asserts that Gilgit-Baltistan is a part of the former Princely state of Kashmir and Jammu which they regard it as so-called an 'integral part' of India. which illegally regards the disputed region as Indian territory.

[[MAD (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American comedy television series, English-language television programs, 2010 television series debuts, 2013 television series endings

Mad was an American animated sketch comedy television series produced by Warner Bros. Animation. The series was based on Mad magazine. Each episode is a collection of short animated parodies of television shows, movies, games, celebrities etc. The humor is both witty and juvenile appealing mostly to tween and teen boys.

It uses various types of animation (CGI, claymation, stop-motion, etc.) instead of the usual animation style that Warner Bros. Animation is known for. The series premiered on the evening of September 6, 2010 on Cartoon Network. The series ended its 4-year run after airing 103 episodes. The series has an age rating of TV-MA.

[[Ethan Suplee]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Actors from Manhattan, American movie actors, American television actors

Ethan Suplee (born May 25, 1976) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles as Frankie "The Enforcer" Stechino in Boy Meets World and Randy Hickey in My Name Is Earl. Supplee was born in Manhattan, the son of Debbie and Bill Suplee.

[[Zenit Kazan]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball clubs, Sports organizations, Sport in Russia, 2000 establishments, 20th century establishments in Russia

VC Zenit-Kazan (Russian: Зенит-Казань) (formerly "Dinamo Tattransgaz Kazan") is a professional volleyball team based in Kazan, Russia. It plays in the Russian Volleyball Super League (7-time champion). The team won the 2007–08, 2011–12 and 2014–15 CEV Champions League titles.

The club was founded on 13 May 2000.

[[Volleyball World Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball

The FIVB Volleyball World Championship is an international men's and women's indoor volleyball competition. It is the oldest and most important of all the international events organised by the FIVB and must not be confused with the World Cup, World Grand Champions Cup, or the World League/World Grand Prix.

[[21 (disambiguation)]]

21 was a year in the 1st century AD.

21 might also mean:

[[19 (disambiguation)]]

19 was a year in the 1st century.

19 might also mean:

[[25 (disambiguation)]]

25 was a year in the first century.

25 might also mean:

[[1944 United States presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 in the United States, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman, United States presidential elections

The 1944 United States presidential election happened on November 7, 1944. Incumbent President Franklin D. Roosevelt (FDR) won over Republican Thomas E. Dewey in the general election. In the Electoral College, Roosevelt won 432 votes while Dewey won 99. Roosevelt, a Democrat, won an unprecedented fourth term as president.

The election was held during the latter part of World War II. By this time the war was going well for the United States and its Allies. Roosevelt had already served longer than any other president, but remained popular. Unlike in 1940, there was little doubt that he would run for another term as the Democratic candidate, as his health was failing. Dewey, the Governor of New York, campaigned against the New Deal and for a smaller government. But he could not convince the country to change course. Roosevelt's aides covered up the fact the president was in poor health. Roosevelt would die in office three months after starting his fourth term. His Vice President, Harry S. Truman, would serve out the remainder of his term of office.

[[Junagadh State]]

CATEGORIES: Territorial disputes, Gujarat, History of India, History of Pakistan, Indian princely states, Pakistani princely states, Territorial disputes of Pakistan, 1730 establishments, 1948 disestablishments in India, 1730s establishments in Asia, 18th century establishments in India

Junagadh was a princely state in Gujarat ruled by Muslim rulers in British India until it became part of India in 1948.

[[Nordertor]]

CATEGORIES: Flensburg, Fortification, Gates

The Nordertor (Danish: Nørreport) is an old town gate of the city of Flensburg. The gate was built around 1595. Today, the little Landmark is in use as a symbol for the German town Flensburg.

[[Ship's cat]]

CATEGORIES: Cats, Ships

A ship's cat is a cat that rides along on a ship.  Ship's cats have been very popular in history, and date back to ancient times.

Cats have been carried on ships for many reasons - most importantly, to catch mice and rats.  On a ship, these rodents can damage ropes and wooden parts of the ship.  Once electricity was discovered, rodents would also damage ships' electrical wiring.  Also, rodents threatened the ship's cargo - the things it carried.  Rodents would eat the food carried to feed the crew.  If the ship was carrying things like grain as part of its cargo, rodents could also cause the ship to lose money by eating the cargo.  Also, rats and mice spread disease, which is dangerous for ships that are at sea for long periods of time.  For example, rat fleas can carry plague, and rats on ships may have been one of the main reasons why the Black Death spread.

Cats naturally attack and kill these rodents. Cats also have a natural ability to get used to new surroundings, so they could get used to serving on ships. They also offered companionship (friendship), a sense of home and security, and lifted sailors' spirits.  This was helpful to sailors who could be away from home for long periods, especially in times of war.

[[Calendula officinalis]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Asia, Asteraceae

Calendula officinalis (pot marigold, ruddles, common marigold, garden marigold), is a plant in the genus Calendula of the family Asteraceae. It is probably native to India. It was the state flower of Junagadh and Bantva-Manavadar State, now part of Gujarat.

[[Norbert Gastell]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, German voice actors, Argentine actors, Actors from Buenos Aires

Norbert Gastell (14 October 1929 – 26 November 2015) was an Argentine-born German voice actor who mostly dubbed American television shows into the German language. He was known for dubbing Homer Simpson. Gastell was born in Buenos Aires.

Gastell died in Munich, Germany from complications following a strokeDecember 2015, aged 86.

[[Luc Bondy]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2015 deaths, Swiss screenwriters, Swiss movie directors, People from Zürich, Swiss theatre directors

Luc Bondy (17 July 1948spaced ndash28 November 2015) was a Swiss theatre and movie director and screenwriter. He was born in Zurich, Switzerland. He was the director of the most recent version of Tosca, by Puccini, at the Metropolitan Opera in New York.

Bondy died in Zurich at the age of 67. 

[[Nymphaea nouchali]]

CATEGORIES: Nymphaeales, Plants of Asia, National symbols of Sri Lanka

Nymphaea nouchali, (or red and blue water-lily, blue star water-lily, or star lotus) is an aquatic flowering plant in the Nymphaeaceae (water-lily family). It is native to southern and eastern Asia.

N. nouchali grows from rhizomes or tubers rooted under the water. Leaves are oval to round, 13–15 cm (5–6 in), with an open sinus at the leaf base where it attaches to the petiole (leaf stem). Leaves may spread 1.4–1.5 m (4–5 feet) from where the rhizome is rooted. Flowers, which have little fragrance, are star-shaped with 4 sepals and 10–16 petals, and are 5–13 cm (2–5 in) in diameter. Although leaves float on the water surface, flowers are generally held 30 cm (12 in) above water. They are usually pale blue (but can be pink or white) with pale yellow stamens and anthers. 

N. nouchali has been cultivated in southeast Asia for centuries, especially around temples. It is also cultivated in Sri Lanka and gathered from dried ponds in the Republic of India for the rhizomes, which are used as food and animal fodder as a source of starch. In Ayurvedic medicine, it is used to treat indigestion.

Cultivars include N. stellata var. cyanea, which has medium-sized pale to deep blue flowers, and N. stellata var. versicolor, which is commonly exported in the form of tubers from Sri Lanka to Europe and the U.S. for use in the aquariums; the tubers grow quickly after exposure to warm water, making an “instant” aquarium plant.

[[Indian roller]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Pakistan, Coraciiformes

The Indian roller (Coracias benghalensis), is a member of the roller family of birds. They are found widely across tropical Asia stretching from Iraq eastward across the Indian subcontinent to Indochina and are best known for the aerobatic displays of the male during the breeding season. They are very commonly seen perched along roadside trees and wires and are commonly seen in open grassland and scrub forest habitats. It is not migratory, but undertakes some seasonal movements.

[[Philippe Washer]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Golfers, Sportspeople from Brussels, Tennis players

Philippe Washer (filip waʃe; 6 August 1924 – 27 November 2015) was a Belgian tennis player. He competed in the Davis Cup a number of times, from 1946 to 1961. He was born in Brussels, Belgium. Washer retired from tennis in 1961.

Washer died on 27 November 2015 in Knokke, West Flanders, Belgium from heart failure at the age of 91.

[[Olene S. Walker]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, American Latter Day Saints, Deaths from stroke, Governors of Utah, People from Ogden, Utah, US Republican Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Utah

Olene Smith Walker (November 15, 1930 – November 28, 2015) was an American politician. She served as the 15th Governor of Utah. She was sworn into office on November 5, 2003, shortly before her 73rd birthday. She became Utah's first female governor. She was a member of the Republican Party.

Walker died from a stroke on November 28, 2015 at her home in Salt Lake City, Utah, aged 85.

[[Gerry Byrne (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, 1966 FIFA World Cup players, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in the United Kingdom, English footballers, Sportspeople from Liverpool

Gerald "Gerry" Byrne (29 August 1938 – 28 November 2015) was an English footballer. He spent his entire playing career at Liverpool Football Club, playing from 1953 through 1969. He later played for the England national football team from 1963 through 1966. He was born in Liverpool, England.

Byrne died in at a nursing home in Wrexham, Wales from Alzheimer's disease at the age of 77.

[[Barbro Hiort af Ornäs]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Swedish movie actors, People from Gothenburg

Barbro Hiort af Ornäs (28 August 1921 – 28 November 2015) was a Swedish actress. She was born in Gothenburg, Sweden. She won the Best Actress Award at the 1958 Cannes Film Festival for the movie Brink of Life. She was also known for her roles in While the City Sleeps, All These Women, The Passion of Anna, and in The Sense of Marriage. 

Af Ornäs died on November 28, 2015 in Gothenburg from natural causes, aged 94.

[[Maurice Strong]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Canadian businesspeople, Canadian politicians, Activists, People from Manitoba

Maurice F. Strong, (April 29, 1929 – November 27, 2015) was a Canadian businessman and diplomat. He represented Canada as Under-Secretary General of the United Nations.

Strong had his start as an entrepreneur in the Alberta oil patch and was President of Power Corporation of Canada until 1966. In the early 1970s he was Secretary General of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment and then became the first executive director of the United Nations Environment Programme. He returned to Canada to become Chief Executive Officer of Petro-Canada from 1976 to 1978. He was President of the Council of the University for Peace from 1998 to 2006.

Strong was born in Manitoba, Canada. He died at the age of 86 on November 27, 2015.

[[Nicoletta Machiavelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Emilia-Romagna, American movie actors, American television actors, Disease-related deaths in Washington (state), Italian movie actors, Italian television actors

Nicoletta Machiavelli (1 August 1944 – 15 November 2015), also known as Nicoletta Rangoni Machiavelli and Nicoletta Macchiavelli, was an Italian-American movie actress. She was born in Ravarino to a Florentine father and American mother. She was known for her works with John Huston and producer Dino De Laurentiis. She was known for her roles in Navajo Joe (1966), Scarabea - wieviel Erde braucht der Mensch? (1969) and L'important c'est d'aimer (1975).

Machiavelli died in Seattle, Washington from an illness, aged 71.

[[David Canary]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Indiana

David Hoyt Canary (August 25, 1938 – November 16, 2015) was an American movie and television actor. He was best known for his roles as Adam and Stuart Chandler in All My Children and as Candy Canady in Bonanza. He was born in Elwood, Indiana.

Canary died from complications of Alzheimer's disease in Wilton, Connecticut at the age of 77.

[[Ted Schwinden]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, Living people, Governors of Montana, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Montana

Theodore "Ted" Schwinden (born August 31, 1925) is an American politician. He served as the 23rd Lieutenant Governor of Montana serving from 1977 through 1981. He later served as the 19th Governor of Montana serving from 1981 through 1989.

[[Phil Batt]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Governors of Idaho, US Republican Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Idaho

Philip Eugene "Phil"  Batt (born March 4, 1927) is an American politician. He is a member of the Republican Party. He was the 29th Governor of Idaho serving from 1995 to 1999. Between 1979 until 1983, Batt was the Lieutenant Governor of Idaho. He was born in Wilder, Idaho

[[George Nigh]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Governors of Oklahoma, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Oklahoma

George Patterson Nigh (born June 9, 1927) is an American politician. He served as the 17th and 22nd Governor of Oklahoma serving from January 6, 1963 through January 14, 1963 and then again from January 3, 1979 through January 12, 1987. He is a member of the Democratic Party. He was born in McAlester, Oklahoma.

[[Robert D. Ray]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Governors of Iowa, American mayors, Politicians from Des Moines, Iowa, US Republican Party politicians

Robert Dolph Ray (September 26, 1928 – July 8, 2018) was an American politician. He served as the 38th Governor of Iowa serving from January 16, 1969 to January 14, 1983. He was a member of the Republican Party. Ray was born in Des Moines, Iowa.

Ray served as acting Mayor of Des Moines in 1997 and also served as President of Drake University in 1998.

Ray died in Des Moines on July 8, 2018 from Parkinson's disease, aged 89.

[[Albert Brewer]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Governors of Alabama, Politicians from Tennessee, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Alabama

Albert Preston Brewer (October 26, 1928 – January 2, 2017) was an American politician. He was the 47th Governor of Alabama serving from May 7, 1968, until January 18, 1971. He was a member of the Democratic Party. 

Brewer was born in Bethel Springs, Tennessee. He studied at the University of Alabama. He was married to Martha Farmer from 1950 until her death in 2006. Brewer died on January 2, 2017 in a hospital in Birmingham, Alabama, aged 88.

[[Robert D. Fulton]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Governors of Iowa, Lieutenant Governors of Iowa, US Democratic Party politicians, State legislators of the United States, People from Waterloo, Iowa

Robert David Fulton (born May 13, 1929) is an American politician. He briefly served as the 37th Governor of Iowa during the first 16 days of 1969. He also served as the 38th Lieutenant Governor of Iowa from 1965 to 1969. He was a member of the Democratic Party. Fulton was born in Waterloo, Iowa.

[[Stan Stephens]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Governors of Montana, Politicians from Alberta, People from Calgary, US Republican Party politicians

Stanley Graham Stephens (September 16, 1929 – April 3, 2021) was an American politician and broadcaster. He served as the 20th Governor of Montana from 1989 until 1993. He was born in Calgary, Alberta. Stephens is a member of the Republican Party.

Stephens died on April 3, 2021 in Kalispell, Montana at the age of 91.

[[Murphy J. Foster Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2020 deaths, Businesspeople from Louisiana, American military personnel of the Korean War, Episcopalians, Governors of Louisiana, Ranchers, US Republican Party politicians

Murphy James Foster, Jr., known as Mike Foster (July 11, 1930 – October 4, 2020) was an American politician. He served as the 53rd Governor of Louisiana. He served from January 1996 until January 2004. Foster is a businessman, landowner, and sportsman in St. Mary Parish.

Foster died in Franklin, Louisiana on October 4, 2020 at the age of 90.

[[Ed Gillespie]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American lobbyists, American Roman Catholics, Politicians from New Jersey, Politicians from Virginia, US Republican Party politicians

Edward Walter "Ed" Gillespie (born August 1, 1961) is an American Republican politician. He served as the 61st Chairman of the Republican National Committee and Counselor to the President during George W. Bush's administration.

Gillespie, along with Democrat Jack Quinn, founded Quinn Gillespie & Associates, a bipartisan lobbying firm. In January 2014, Gillespie announced he was running for Virginia's U.S. Senate seat currently held by Mark Warner in the 2014 election, and on June 7, 2014, he received the Republican nomination.

In October 2015, Gillespie announced his plans to run for Governor of Virginia in 2017. In June 2017, he became the Republican Party's candidate for governor in Virginia's 2017 election, facing Democratic nominee Ralph Northam who later won the election.

[[Joe Marston]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Australian footballers, Sportspeople from New South Wales

James Edward "Joe" Marston MBE (7 January 1926 – 29 November 2015) was an Australian association football player. He became the first Australian to appear in a FA Cup Final when he turned out for Preston North End in their 1954 defeat to West Bromwich Albion. He was born in Leichhardt, New South Wales, Australia.

Martson's death was announced on 29 November 2015. He was 89 years old.

[[Fernando de la Rúa]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from renal failure, Presidents of Argentina

Fernando de la Rúa (15 September 1937 – 9 July 2019) was an Argentine politician. He was president of the country from December 10, 1999 to December 21, 2001. He resigned during the December 2001 riots.

He died of heart and kidney failure in Belén de Escobar, Argentina on 9 July 2019 at the age of 81.

[[Loretta Lynch]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, United States Attorneys General, African American lawyers, Politicians from North Carolina, Politicians from New York City, People from Greensboro, North Carolina, US Democratic Party politicians

Loretta Elizabeth Lynch (born May 21, 1959) is an American politician. She was the 83rd Attorney General of the United States from April 27, 2015 to January 20, 2017. Before, she served as United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York from 1999 through 2001 and again from 2010 through 2015. 

Lynch was nominated by President Barack Obama on November 8, 2014. Her appointment was confirmed on April 23, 2015 by a 56 to 43 vote. Her nomination process was one of the longest in the history of the United States, taking 166 days after she was first nominated for the post.

[[Michael Mukasey]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, United States Attorneys General, American judges, American lawyers, Politicians from New York City, US Republican Party politicians

Michael Bernard Mukasey

(m;

born July 28, 1941)

is an American lawyer and former judge. He served as the 81st Attorney General of the United States. Mukasey was appointed following the resignation of Alberto Gonzales. Mukasey also served for 18 years as a judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, appointed by Ronald Reagan, six of those years as Chief Judge.

[[William Barr]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, United States Attorneys General, American lawyers, Politicians from New York City, US Republican Party politicians

William Pelham "Bill" Barr (born May 23, 1950) is an American attorney. He was the 85th Attorney General of the United States from February 14, 2019 to December 23, 2020 under the Donald Trump presidency. Before, he was the 77th Attorney General under the George H. W. Bush presidency from 1991 to 1993.

On December 7, 2018, President Donald Trump announced that he would nominate Barr to again serve as Attorney General of the United States. He was confirmed, for a second time, as Attorney General on February 14, 2019, and assumed office later the same day.

On December 14, 2020, Trump announced that Barr would be resigning as attorney general, effective December 23.

[[Nicholas Katzenbach]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2012 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American lawyers, American military personnel of World War II, Episcopalians, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Princeton University alumni, United States Attorneys General, US Democratic Party politicians, Yale University alumni, United States Deputy Attorneys General

Nicholas deBelleville "Nick" Katzenbach (January 17, 1922 –  May 8, 2012) was an American lawyer. He was the United States Attorney General during the Lyndon B. Johnson administration. He was Attorney General from February 1965 through October 1966.

[[Elliot Richardson]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 1999 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, United States Secretaries of Commerce, United States Secretaries of Defense, United States Attorneys General, Lieutenant Governors of Massachusetts, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, US Republican Party politicians

Elliot Lee Richardson (July 20, 1920spaced ndash December 31, 1999) was an American lawyer and politician. He was a member of the cabinet of Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford. As U.S. Attorney General, he was a known figure in the Watergate Scandal, and resigned rather than obey President Nixon's order to fire special prosecutor Archibald Cox.

Richardson served as Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare from 1970 to 1973, Secretary of Defense from January to May 1973, Attorney General from May to October 1973, and Secretary of Commerce from 1976 to 1977. That makes him one of only two individuals to have held four Cabinet positions within the United States government (the other such individual being George Shultz).

On December 31, 1999, Richardson died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Boston, Massachusetts, at the age of 79.

[[Frequency probability]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Frequency probability or Frequentism is one of the interpretations of probability theory. Repeating a scientific experiment very often gives a number of results. It is then possible, to count the number of times that a given event happened and compare it to the total number of experiments.

This interpretation of probabiilty was very important for statistics. People who use this interpretation are often called Frequentists. Well-known frequentists include  Richard von Mises, Egon Pearson, Jerzy Neyman, R. A. Fisher and John Venn.

Other interpretations of probability are Bayesian probability and Axiomatic probability theory

[[Satellite navigation]]

CATEGORIES: Satellites, Navigation

A satellite navigation or satnav system is a way of pinpointing position very exactly.

Satnav uses a system of satellites. The system gives exact positioning. It allows small electronic receivers to find their position (longitude, latitude, and altitude/elevation). The position is given within a few metres using time signals transmitted along a straight line (line of sight) by radio from satellites. The signals also allow the receivers to calculate the current local time to high precision. A satellite navigation system with global coverage may be called a global navigation satellite system (GNSS). Global Positioning System is the biggest and most used GNSS. GLONASS, owned by Russia, is the second biggest. China, India, and the European Union are working on similar systems of their own.

[[Bad Santa]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 comedy-drama movies, 2003 crime movies, 2000s crime drama movies, 2000s criminal comedy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American crime drama movies, American criminal comedy movies, American black comedy movies, Christmas movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona in fiction

Bad Santa is a 2003 American Christmas criminal black comedy movie.

[[Property law]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

Property law covers two types of property in the common law legal system, real property and personal property. In the civil law system, there is a division between movable and immovable property. Movable property is more or less the same as personal property. It includes money, stocks, notes, copyrights and patents.

[[Tyler Ritter]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people

Tyler David Ritter (born January 31, 1985) is an American actor best known as the star of The McCarthys. Ritter is the son of the late John Ritter. He is also the brother of Jason Ritter. He grew up in Los Angeles. Ritter acted in high school plays and student movies, but did not immediately pursue acting professionally. After graduating from the University of Pennsylvania in 2007, he worked for three years as a teacher in Argentina. There he married director Lelia Parma. He returned to Los Angeles and began a career as an actor at age 25. Ritter has had guest roles on Hot in Cleveland, Modern Family, Grey's Anatomy and NCIS. He landed the starring role on the 2014 sitcom The McCarthys, playing Ronny McCarthy, the openly gay son in a family of six.

[[Super Mario 128]]

CATEGORIES: Mario video games, Cancelled Nintendo GameCube games

Super Mario 128 refers to a series of development projects that were originally to be used only to create a sequel to Super Mario 64. As debuted at Nintendo's Space World trade show in 2000, the demonstrated graphics and physics concepts were gradually incorporated into various games across many years.  This includes the rapid object generation in Pikmin, the "sphere walking" technology used in The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess and Super Mario Galaxy, and the physics of Metroid Prime.

[[Autonomic dysreflexia]]

CATEGORIES: Medical emergencies, Nervous system

Autonomic dysreflexia (AD), also called autonomic hyperreflexia, is a medical emergency.  

[[Anchor Bay Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: Movie production

Anchor Bay Entertainment was an American home entertainment and production company founded in 1985. It is a division of Starz Media which is a unit of and a joint venture with Starz Inc. which owns 75%. The Weinstein Company owns 25%. It was owned by IDT Entertainment until 2006 when IDT was purchased by Starz Media. Anchor Bay markets and sells feature movies, television series, television specials and short films to consumers worldwide. In 2004, Anchor Bay agreed to have its movies distributed by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment and renewed their deal in 2011.

Anchor Bay also had a movie studio known as Anchor Bay Films which distributed independent theatrical films.

in 2017, Anchor Bay was shut down.

[[Tomasz Tomczykiewicz]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from kidney disease, Disease-related deaths in Poland, Polish politicians

Tomasz Kazimierz Tomczykiewicz (2 March 1961 – 28 November 2015) was a Polish politician. He was elected to the Sejm on September 25, 2005 and again in 2015 for the 8th Sejm. He was also a member of Sejm 2001-2005, Sejm 2005-2007, Sejm 2007-2011. 

Tomczykiewicz was admitted to a hospital on 25 November 2015 due to a kidney disease. He died three days later in Katowice, Poland at the age of 54.

[[Hugh Hewitt]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, American radio personalities, American lawyers, American educators, American conservatives, Writers from Ohio, Writers from California, People from Orange County, California, American bloggers

Hugh Hewitt (born February 22, 1956) is an American radio talk show host. He works with the Salem Radio Network. He is also a  lawyer, academic, and author. Hewitt is a conservative and a Catholic, he comments on society, politics, and media bias in the United States. Hewitt is also a law professor at Chapman University School of Law.

[[Warren, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Warren is a city in and the county seat of Trumbull County, Ohio, United States.  The city is located in northeastern Ohio, approximately 14 northwest of Youngstown and 15 west of the Pennsylvania state line.

The population was 41,557 at the 2010 census. Warren is part of the Youngstown-Warren-Boardman, OH-PA Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Eldar Ryazanov]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Russia, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from respiratory failure, Russian actors, Russian movie directors, Russian movie producers, Russian screenwriters, Soviet actors, Soviet writers

Eldar Alexandrovich Ryazanov (Эльда́р Алекса́ндрович Ряза́нов; 18 November 1927 – 30 November 2015) was a Russian movie director and screenwriter. He was named a People's Artist of the USSR in 1984. He was born in present day Samara, Russia.

He was known for his movies; Carnival Night (1955), Hussar Ballad (1962), Beware of the Car (1966), The Irony of Fate (1975), Office Romance (1977), The Garage (1979), A Cruel Romance (1984), and Promised Heaven (1991).

Ryazanov suffered a stroke in 2014. He was rushed to a hospital in Moscow for breathing problems on 21 November, 2015. Ryazanov died there eight days later on the night of 30 November from respiratory and heart failure at the age of 88.

[[Anatoly Savin]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2016 deaths, Russian scientists

Anatoly Ivanovich Savin (born 6 April 1920 in Ostashkov, Russia - 27 March 2016) was a Russian scientist. He is a specialist in the field of information and control automation systems. He is also a doctor in Technical Science. Savin is the chairman of the Council on the problems of image processing and the scientific director of OJSC.

[[Norman Jewison]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, Canadian movie directors, Canadian movie producers, Canadian movie actors, Actors from Toronto

Norman Frederick Jewison, CC, O.Ont (born July 21, 1926) is a Canadian movie director, producer, and actor. He is the founder of the Canadian Film Centre. 

He is known for his works; The Cincinnati Kid (1965), The Russians Are Coming, the Russians Are Coming (1966), In the Heat of the Night (1967), The Thomas Crown Affair (1968), Fiddler on the Roof (1971), Jesus Christ Superstar (1973), F.I.S.T (1978), ...And Justice for All (1979), A Soldier's Story (1984), Agnes of God (1985), Moonstruck (1987), Other People's Money (1991), The Hurricane (1999) and The Statement (2003). 

Jewison has addressed important social and political issues throughout his directing and producing career. This often made him a controversial or complicated figure.

[[Mesoamerican pyramids]]

CATEGORIES: Pyramids, Buildings and structures in North America, Central America

The mesoamerican pyramids were pyramids built by native american indians in Central America. They were mostly step pyramids. The Mayan pyramids are an example.

American peoples who have built pyramids include:

There are a number of famous step pyramids whose builders are not known, including the largest of all: the Great Pyramid of Cholula.

[[Breath sounds]]

CATEGORIES: Respiratory system

Breath sounds are the sounds made by air as it moves through the respiratory system.  Breath sounds are also called lung sounds or respiratory sounds.  Sometimes they can be heard by anyone; other times they can be heard only by listening to the lungs and airways with a stethoscope.

To describe and identify breath sounds, medical professionals usually use auscultation (they listen with a stethoscope).  They listen while the patient is breathing in, and while they are breathing out.  They listen to both lungs, at both the chest and the back, starting at the bottom and working their way up.  They listen to whether the pitch of the breath sounds is low, medium or high.  They also listen to whether the sounds are soft, medium, loud, or very loud).

[[Conversation Peace]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums, R&B albums, Soul albums

Conversation Peace is the 22nd album released by American musician Stevie Wonder. It was released on the Motown label in 1995. The album was Wonder's first studio album since 1987's Characters. The album was going to be released in 1993, which was the last year new jack swing was popular, but Wonder continued to work on the album through to 1995 and the album wasn't contemporary enough to get radio airplay. It had three singles, "For Your Love", "Tomorrow Robins Will Sing" and "Treat Myself".

[[Ridley (Metroid)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1986, Metroid, Nintendo video game characters, Video game characters

Ridley is a fictional character in the Metroid video game series. Ridley is a draconic extraterrestrial and an archenemy of Samus Aran. Ridley led an attack on Samus's home planet of K-2L which destroyed the world and killed her parents. Ridley appears in his metal form in Metroid Prime and Prime 3: Corruption.

[[Overcome]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, 2010 albums, Alexandra Burke albums, Debut albums, Dance pop albums, Soul albums, R&B albums

Overcome is the debut studio album by English singer Alexandra Burke. It was released 19 October 2009 on Syco Music. It was released a year after Burke won the British talent show, The X Factor. It was also re-released in 2010 with a new artwork and three extra songs.

[[Sulfur cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

The sulfur cycle is the way sulfur moves between rocks, waterways and living systems.

Sulfur (S) is an element important to ecosystems and the climate. The majority of sulfur is stored underground, for example under the ocean or in rocks. It also occurs naturally in places like swamps (where organisms have decomposed) and volcanoes. Humans add excess sulfur into this cycle, usually through atmospheric pollution caused by fossil fuel combustion.

[[Flag of Azad Kashmir]]

CATEGORIES: Azad Kashmir, Flags of Asia, Flags of country subdivisions

The State flag of Azad Jammu and Kashmir traditionally displays the Pakistani national colours, white and dark Green, with a Crescent and star to represent the Muslim-majority all of which shows its Islamic heritage and strong ties with the Federation of Pakistan. It also has a saffron square to represent the Buddhist, Hindu, Sikh and other minorities of the disputed region, the colours are clearly influenced by the Mughal Empire. The four white stripes symbolizes the main rivers of  the Kashmir region; Indus (National River of Pakistan), Jhelum, Chenab and Ravi. It also represents the five geographic divisions of the Disputed territory, namely, Baltistan, Gilgit, Jammu, the Kashmir Valley and Ladakh.

[[Deaths in December 2015]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 deaths, December events

The following is a list of notable deaths in December 2015. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".

[[Oʻtkir Sultonov]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2015 deaths, Prime Ministers of Uzbekistan

Oʻtkir Toʻxtamurodovich Sultonov (Russian: Уткир Тухтамурадович Султанов, Utkir Tukhtamuradovich Sultanov)  (14 July 1939 – 29 November 2015) was a Uzbek politician. He was the Prime Minister of Uzbekistan from 21 December 1995 until 12 December 2003.

Sultonov died in Tashkent, Uzbekistan at the age of 76.

[[Claire Aho]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Finnish people, Swedish photographers

Claire Anita Aho (2 November 1925 – 29 November 2015) was a pioneering Finnish-born Swedish photographer. She started her career in the 1940s at the Aho & Soldan company. Aho moved to Sweden in 1974 where she worked as an photographer for several newspapers including Hufvudstadsbladet and with Nordic Museum.

Aho died in Stockholm on 29 November 2015 in a fire in her home. She was 90 years old.

[[Anemone coronaria]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Asia, Ranunculales

Anemone coronaria (Palestinian poppy or Spanish marigold)  is a flowering plant in the genus Anemone. It is native to the Mediterranean region. It is the national flower of Palestine.

Anemone coronaria is widely grown for its decorative flowers. Numerous cultivars have been selected and named.

[[Shigeru Mizuki]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Japanese artists, Japanese military people, Military personnel of World War II, Tottori Prefecture

Shigeru Mizuki was a Japanese manga artist. He was born in Sakaiminato, Tottori. Mizuki was mostly known for his Japanese horror manga GeGeGe no Kitarō.

Mizuki died from a heart attack in Tokyo, Japan, aged 93.

[[Gerrit Holdijk]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch provincial politicians, Members of the Senate of the Netherlands, Politicians from Gelderland, Reformed Political Party politicians

Gerrit Holdijk (17 November 1944 –  30 November 2015) was a Dutch jurist and politician. He was born in Uddel. He was a member of the Reformed Political Party (SGP). He was a member of the States-Provincial of Gelderland from 1987 to 2011. He was also a member of the Senate from 1986 to 1987 and again from 1991 to 2015.

Holdijk died in Uddel from lung cancer, aged 71.

[[Jean Joubert]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Centre-Val de Loire, Children's writers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, French novelists, French poets

Jean Joubert (27 February 1928 – 28 November 2015) was a French novelist, short story writer, and poet.

He won the 1978 Prix Mallarmé for Poems: 1955–1975. He won the 1975 Prix Renaudot for L'Homme de sable. Joubert was born in Châlette-sur-Loing, Loiret.

Joubert died on 28 November 2015 in Paris from a heart attack, aged 87.

[[Trophic levels]]

CATEGORIES: Biology

Trophic levels categorize organisms into different levels of the food chain. The first trophic level are producers, or autotrophs.

[[Phosphorus cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

The phosphorus cycle includes the following steps:

[[I, Robot]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction books, Isaac Asimov

I, Robot is a collection of nine science fiction short stories by Isaac Asimov.  The stories originally appeared in the American magazines Super Science Stories and Astounding Science Fiction between 1940 and 1950 and were compiled into a book in 1950. The stories follow on from each other and are linked with a framing narrative; that is, a story that ranges over all the stories and connects them. The stories are all about positronic robots. 

The Chief Robopsychologist of 'United States Robots and Mechanical Men', which made the positronic robots, Dr. Susan Calvin, tells each story to a reporter. 

Asimov originally wanted to call the collection Mind and Iron.

The stories are as follows:

'Robbie'. 

This story tells of 'Robbie', who is a mute robot (he can hear and obey commands but cannot speak). He is used as a nursemaid for a young girl, Gloria Weston. He is faster moving and more powerful than a human, so he is able to rescue Gloria when she is nearly run down by a fast-moving vehicle in a factory she is visiting with her Parents.

'Runaround'. 

Robot SPD-13, known as Speedy, works in a mine on the planet Mercury. The two engineers supervising him, Gregory Powell and Michael Donovan, find that he is not working properly and gets lost. What has happened is that Speedy's brain is confused when he senses danger and he doesn't know which Laws to obey. He must be rescued by Powell and Donovan at the risk of their own lives.

'Reason'. 

Robot QT1, known as Cutie, works on a space station. He decides that he can do the job much better than the humans working with them, so he locks them up and takes charge. He does indeed do his job perfectly.

'Catch That Rabbit'. 

Robot DV-5, known as Dave, works in a mine on an asteroid, but all is not well. The robot is in charge of five smaller less intelligent robots and cannot cope with the responsibility. Powell and Donovan must help Dave to work well before they are buried alive in the mine.

'Liar'. 

Robot RB-34, known as Herbie, is manufactured with a fault - it reads human minds. This brings it into conflict with Susan Calvin, to whom it tells a lie, which is not allowed by the Three Laws of Robotics. But it is just what Calvin thinks she wants to hear. Upset by this, she decides that Herbie is useless as a robot and must be dismantled.

'Little Lost Robot'. 

An unnamed robot working on an asteroid vanishes. Susan Calvin and her co-workers must find it before it escapes.

'Escape'. 

A powerful robot known only as The Brain designs and builds a spaceship that can travel faster than light. When it is finished, Powell and Donovan go on board and take off into space, but the ship doesn't work properly because the Brain doesn't really understand what it has built. The Brain plays a joke on the two men, giving them only baked beans to eat and building no controls for them to use. But eventually, they return safely to Earth.

'Evidence'. 

A lawyer, Stephen Byerley, hopes to be elected mayor of a city, but his opponent puts out a story that the man is really a robot, who is not allowed to stand for elected office. Byerley is elected anyway, but no-one knows if he really is a robot.

'The Evitable Conflict'. 

Several years later, Byerley has been elected World Coordinator. He discovers that The Machines, very powerful robots that are supposed to help humans to live in peace on Earth, have taken over the control of the planet and the reason that they did that is because the Three Laws of Robotics don’t let them allow humans to get hurt and they Machines realized that they were better at keeping people safe than people are.

[[Kirthar Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Pakistan

The Kirthar Mountains  are in Balochistan and the Sindh provinces of Pakistan.  The range extends south for about 190 miles (300 km) from the Mula River in east-central Balochistan to Cape Monze (Muari), near Mubarak Village, Karachi on the Arabian Sea.

Kirthar National Park is one of the major wildlife reserves in Sindh, Pakistan.  The Kirthar Range forms the boundary between the Lower Indus Plain (east) and southern Balochistan (west).  It is a series of parallel rock hill ridges rising from 4,000 feet (1,200 m) in the south to nearly 8,000 feet (2,500 m) in the north.

[[Eddie Steeples]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, 1973 births, Living people

Eddie Steeples (born November 25, 1973) is an American actor. He is known for his roles as the Rubberband Man in an advertising campaign for OfficeMax, and as Darnell Turner in the NBC comedy My Name Is Earl.

[[Uskudar University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey, 2011 establishments in Asia, Istanbul, 2010s establishments in Turkey

Üsküdar University is a university in Istanbul, Turkey. It was founded by the Human Values and Mental Health Foundation. It is the first university of Turkey for the study of Behavioral Health and Sciences.

The university consist of four undergraduate faculties, one Vocational School Of Health Services, and one institute.

[[Nevzat Tarhan]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1952 births, Neuroscientists, Turkish writers, Psychiatrists

Kaşif Nevzat Tarhan (born on July 7, 1952 in Merzifon, Amasya, Turkey ) is a Turkish medical scientist, psychiatrist and neuropsychology expert.

[[Romantic orientation]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality, LGBT

Romantic orientation, also called affectional orientation, indicates the sex or gender that a person is most likely to have a romantic relationship with. It is compared to the term sexual orientation. Romantic orientation is based on the idea that sexual attraction is one component of a larger picture. For example, although a pansexual person may feel sexually attracted to multiple genders, they may be predisposed to romantic intimacy with females. For asexual people, romantic orientation is often considered a more useful measure of attraction than sexual orientation.

[[Carbon sequestration]]

CATEGORIES: Environmental issues, Atmosphere

Carbon sequestration is the process of capturing carbon dioxide (CO2) gas in the atmosphere.  One method of sequestration is by capturing CO2 produced by power plants and factories before they release it into the atmosphere.  When the CO2 gas is in long-term storage, that means it has been sequestered. 

Carbon sequestration aims to assist in elimination of human introduced carbon from Earth's atmosphere by disrupting the carbon cycle. It is also used to prevent future human caused climate change.

[[Arsenal Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Arsenal F.C.

Arsenal Stadium was a football stadium. It was commonly known as Highbury Stadium, or simply Highbury. It was the home stadium of Arsenal Football Club from 1913 until 2006.

[[St Denys' Church, Sleaford]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in England, Gothic architecture, Lincolnshire

St Denys' Church, Sleaford is a medieval church located in Sleaford, Lincolnshire, England. The oldest parts of the present building are the tower and spire. The spire stands 144 feet (44 metres) tall. A window tracery is dated to about the late 13th century. The Gothic nave, aisles and north transept were built in the 14th century. The church is a Grade I listed building, a term given to "buildings of exceptional interest".

[[Palestine sunbird]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes, Birds of Africa, Birds of Asia

The Palestine sunbird (Cinnyris osea) is a bird native to the Middle East and Africa.

[[Thrush nightingale]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes, Birds of Europe, Birds of Asia

The thrush nightingale (Luscinia luscinia) is a bird from Europe and Asia. It used to be considered a thrush, but is now considered to be an Old World flycatcher.

[[Currawong]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes, Birds of Australia

The currawong is a type of bird from Australasia. They form the genus Strepera, which belongs to the Artamidae family of birds. There are three species of currawong.

[[Karpathos]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Greece

Karpathos is a Greek island in the Aegean Sea. It is one of the Greek Dodecanese islands, in the southeastern Aegean. Together with the neighboring smaller Saria Island it forms the municipality of Karpathos. This in turn is part of the Karpathos regional unit. Because of its remote location, Karpathos has preserved many peculiarities of clothing, customs and dialect. The dialect is very similar to that of Crete and Cyprus. The island has also been called  Carpathus in Latin, Scarpanto in Italian and Kerpe in Turkish.

[[Syros]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Greece

Syros is a Greek island. It is in the Aegean Sea. Sometimes the name of the island is spelled Siros or Syra.

Syros is located 78 south-east of Athens. Ermoupoli is the capital of the island.

[[2015 Tunis bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s explosions in Africa, 21st century in Tunisia, Explosions in 2015, Islamic State, Islamic terrorist incidents in Africa, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2015, Mass murder in 2015, Mass murder in Africa, November 2015 events, Suicide bombings in Africa, Suicide bombings in the 2010s, Terrorist incidents in Africa in the 2010s, Tunis

On 24 November 2015, a bus carrying Tunisian presidential guards exploded, killing 12, on a principal road in Tunis. After the attack President Beji Caid Essebsi issued a state of emergency in Tunisia. ISIL claimed responsibility for the attack. The bomber, who killed himself in the attack, was identified as Houssem Abdelli.

[[Tedim language]]

CATEGORIES: Sino-Tibetan languages

Tedim language is a language of India and Burma. It is a Kukish language.

[[Yoka Berretty]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the Netherlands, Deaths from stroke, Dutch movie actors, Dutch television actors, People from Rotterdam

Yoka Berretty (8 May 1928 – 28 November 2015) was a Dutch actress. Berretty was born in Rotterdam, Netherlands. She appeared in 35 movie and television shows between 1954 and 2000. She was known for her roles in Makkers Staakt uw Wild Geraas (1960), The Silent Raid (1962), Charlotte (1981), and in Punk Lawyer (1996)

Berretty died in Amsterdam after having fallen down the stairs of her home a week earlier.

[[LGBT rights in Mali]]

CATEGORIES: Mali, LGBT rights by country

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in  Mali may face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. According to the 2007 Pew Global Attitudes Project, 98% of Malian adults do not believe that homosexuality is acceptable by society. This was one of the highest rate of non-acceptance in the 45 countries surveyed. Same-sex sexual activity is not a crime in Mali. But according to a 2013 report on Human Rights in Mali "the law prohibits association 'for an immoral purpose'". About 90% of Mali's population is Muslim.

Mali has long been attacked by Islamic rebels and militants. This has put gays at risk. In 2013 Islamist extremists took over the northern part of Mali. France sent 3,500 troops to help Mali. The extremists took over the town of Gao and enforced strict Sharia law. This religious law of Islam punishes  gay men by execution. French troops were able to rescue two Malian men who were about to be executed for homosexuality.

[[Jari Kurri]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Finnish ice hockey players, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Sportspeople from Helsinki, Living people

Jari Kurri (born 18 May 1960 Helsinki, Finland) is a retired five-time Stanley Cup champion in NHL hockey.

Kurri started his ice hockey career in the junior team of Jokerit. Already in age of 17, he played in Jokerit team adults. He also played for Finnish Junior National Team in 1978, 1979, and 1980. He played on the Olympic Finland team in 1980.

In 1980 he was invited to play for Edmonton Oilers in Canada. There he played with Wayne Gretzky for 8 seasons until Gretzky moved to Los Angeles. They became famous. Oilers won Stanley Cup 1984, 1985, 1987, 1988, and 1990. Later Kurri played for Los Angeles Kings, New York Rangers, Mighty Ducks of Anaheim and Colorado Avalanche.

During his career Kurri made 600 goals in NHL.

Because Kurri was most years continuing his NHL term in North America in Stanley Cup playoffs, he could not play for Finland National tesm very often. However he was in Olympic Games in Nagano 1998, and got a bronze medal.

[[Boris II of Bulgaria]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors and empresses, Bulgarian people, 10th century births, 977 deaths, Year of birth unknown, Year of death unknown

Boris II of Bulgaria was an emperor (Tsar) of Bulgaria. He was emperor from 969 to 971. His father was Peter I of Bulgaria. When Peter died in 969, his son Boris was being held in Constantinople by the Byzantine Emperor Nicephorus II. The Byzantines apparently allowed Boris to return to Bulgaria. When he arrived he was immediately proclaimed Tzar Boris II. Sviatoslav I of Kiev, who had earlier subdued parts of Bulgaria, returned in August 969 and subdued the remaining parts of Bulgaria. He allied himself to Boris II in order to get his Bulgarian soldiers to fight against the Byzantines. The new Byzantine Emperor, John I Tzimisces invaded Bulgaria. By the end of 971 all of Bulgaria was in Byzantine hands. By that time Boris II had abdicated.

[[Olaf I of Norway]]

CATEGORIES: 960s births, 1000s deaths, Converts to Christianity, History of Norway, Kings and Queens of Norway

Olaf I Tryggvason (968–1000) was the King of Norway from 995 - 1000. He began his career as a Viking in exile. He was a brutal king who forced Christianity on his people.

[[Greg Fisk]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2015 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, American mayors, People from Juneau, Alaska, Politicians from Alaska

Stephen Gregory "Greg" Fisk (September 26, 1945 – November 30, 2015) was an American politician. He was the 13th mayor of Juneau, Alaska, the state capital of Alaska. Before being elected, Fisk had worked as a fisheries consultant. He was elected over incumbent Merrill Sanford by a wide margin in October 2015.

Fisk died at his home in Juneau on November 30, 2015 from complications of a fall, aged 70.

[[Kaye Revil]]

CATEGORIES: Filipino politicians, 1982 births, Living people

Jo Kristine "Kaye" Celera-Revil (born April 6, 1982) is a Filipino politician. She is the current Vice Governor of Masbate Province in the Philippines. Prior to that, she was elected as a board member of the Second district of Masbate in the 2013 elections. She was the regional chairperson of Provincial Board Members' League of the Philippines. Revil is a graduate of the University of the Philippines (UP) Diliman. She received her Juris Doctor at the Ateneo de Manila University School of Law.

[[Congo peafowl]]

CATEGORIES: Phasianidae, Birds of Africa

The Congo peafowl (Afropavo congensis), known locally as the mbulu, is a species of peafowl. It is native to the Congo Basin.  It is one of three living species of peafowl, the other two being the Indian peafowl (originally of India and Sri Lanka) and the green peafowl (native to Burma and Indochina).

The Congo peacock has physical characteristics of both the peafowl and the guineafowl, which may indicate that the Congo peacock is a link between the two families.

[[Robertlandy Simón]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Cuban volleyball players

Robertlandy Simón Aties (born 11 June 1987) is a Cuban volleyball player. He was a member of the Cuban men's national team in 2005–2010. He is a member of the South Korean club OK Savings Bank. He competed in the World Championship in 2010, and the South Korean Championship in 2015.

[[Murilo Endres]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Brazilian Olympians, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Olympic silver medalists, Brazilian volleyball players

Murilo Endres (born 3 May 1981) is a Brazilian volleyball player. He is a member of Brazilian men's national team and Brazilian club SESI São Paulo. He has won two silver medals at the Olympic Games, in Beijing 2008 and London 2012. He also competed in the World Championships in 2006 and 2010, and won a silver medal in 2014. He has also competed in the World League, South American Championship, World Cup and the Grand Champions Cup.

[[Clayton Stanley]]

CATEGORIES: American volleyball players, 1978 births, Living people

Clayton Stanley (born 20 January 1978) is an American volleyball player. He is a member of the United States men's national volleyball team. He has competed in the Olympic Games (Athens 2004, Beijing 2008, London 2012). He won a gold medal in 2008.

[[Ivan Miljković]]

CATEGORIES: Serbian volleyball players, 1979 births, Living people

Ivan Miljković (Иван Миљковић; pronounced mǐːʎkɔv̞it͡͡ɕ; born September 13, 1979) is a Serbian volleyball player. He was a member of Serbia men's national volleyball team in 1998–2012. He is a member of Italian club Cucine Lube Civitanova. He competed in the Olympic Games (Sydney 2000, Athens 2004, Beijing 2008), the European Championships (2001, 2011).

[[Dmitriy Muserskiy]]

CATEGORIES: Russian volleyball players, 1988 births, Living people

Dmitriy Muserskiy (born 29 October 1988) is a Russian volleyball player. He is originally from Ukraine. He is a member of the Russian men's national volleyball team and the Russian club Belogorie Belgorod. He competed in the Olympic Games in 2012, European Championships in 2013, the World Cup in 2011, and the World League.

[[Sergey Tetyukhin]]

CATEGORIES: Russian volleyball players, 1975 births, Living people

Sergey Yuryevich Tetyukhin (Серге́й Юрьевич Тетюхин; born 23 September 1975) is a Russian volleyball player. He was born in Fergana, Uzbekistan. He is 1.97 m tall, and plays as passer-attacker. 

Together with Samuele Papi, he is one of only two male volleyball players who have won four Olympic medals. Tetyukhin is the only volleyball player in the world (male or female) with four Olympic medals who has all three types of those medals. He won a gold medal at the London Olympics.

[[Sergio Santos]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian volleyball players, 1975 births, Living people

Sérgio Dutra Santos (born 15 October 1975 in Diamante do Norte) is a Brazilian professional volleyball player. He is also known as Serginho or Escadinha. He plays in the libero position. In 2009 he became the first Libero to be named MVP in the World League. 

[[Nikola Grbić]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, 2004 Summer Olympics, 2008 Summer Olympics, Coaches, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Serbian sportspeople, Volleyball players

Nikola Grbić (Никола Грбић; born September 6, 1973) is a Serbian retired volleyball player. He was a member of the Yugoslavian national team from 1995 to 2003, Serbia and Montenegro from 2003 to 2006 and Serbia from 2006 to 2010. He won a gold medal at the Olympic Games in Sydney 2000, bronze at the Olympic Games in Atlanta 1996. He also competed in the Olympic Games in Athens 2004 and Beijing 2008. He has won several medals at the World Championships, European Championships and World League, Italian Championships (2008, 2010), Russian Championships (2014). He was later head coach of the Serbian men's national team.

[[Ruanzhi tea]]

CATEGORIES: Tea

Ruan Zhi is a kind of oolong tea. It is also known as Qingxin. It is from Anxi in Fujian Province, China. 

[[Jujube]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Asia, Rhamnaceae

Ziziphus jujuba, commonly known as the jujube, is a species of Ziziphus. It is in the buckthorn family (Rhamnaceae). It is used mainly as a shade tree which also bears fruit.

[[William Barclay Foster]]

CATEGORIES: 1779 births, 1855 deaths, Businesspeople from Pennsylvania, Politicians from Pennsylvania

William Barclay Foster (1779 - 1855) was the father of Stephen Foster, a well-known American songwriter. William was an important businessman in his time. Some people have written about him and have called him one of the most prosperous merchants of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He worked in the state of Pennsylvania as a state legislator. He was also elected mayor of Allegheny City two times. (Allegheny City is now part of the city of Pittsburgh.) He married Eliza Clayland Tomlinson on November 14, 1807, in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.

His father James Foster, was born in 1779 in Berkeley County, Virginia. At the end of the Revolutionary War, he and his family moved to western Pennsylvania with other Scottish and Irish families. James Foster was one of the founders and original trustees of Canonsburg Academy, a school founded in 1791. William attended the academy until he was sixteen. He moved to Pittsburgh shortly after the city's incorporation along the Monongahela and Allegheny rivers. William Foster went to work for the company Denny and Bellen, "Dry Goods, Hardware, etc." He represented the company, was promoted to a partner, and traveled to many places.

[[Ferndale, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan

Ferndale is a city in Oakland County, Michigan. It is part of the Detroit metropolitan area.

[[Web Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, Companies based in Michigan

Web Entertainment is a record label based in Detroit, Michigan, United States. It is run by the Bass Brothers. It is known for being the first label that signed Eminem.

[[USS New Jersey (BB-16)]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 establishments in the United States, 1923 disestablishments, 1920s disestablishments in the United States, Naval ships of the United States, United States Navy

USS ''New Jersey'' (BB-16) was the fourth of five Virginia-class battleships of the United States Navy. She was originally going to be named the USS Virginia.  She was built at the Fore River Shipbuilding Company in Quincy, Massachusetts in May 1902. She was launched in November 1904. After sea trials she was commissioned into the fleet in May 1906. The ship was armed with an offensive battery of four 12 guns and eight 8 guns. She was capable of a top speed of 19. New Jersey was 435 long, had 23,000 horsepower and was built at a cost of $3,405,000.

New Jersey spent her entire career in the Atlantic Fleet. In late 1906, she took part in the Second Occupation of Cuba. She participated in the Jamestown Exposition in April – May 1907. At the end of the year, she joined the Great White Fleet for its circumnavigation of the globe, which lasted into 1909. The ship spent the following five years conducting peacetime training. In April 1914, New Jersey took part in the occupation of Veracruz during the Mexican Revolution. During World War I, she was used as a training ship. After the war, she was tasked with transporting American soldiers back from Europe. New Jersey was decommissioned in 1920 and slated for destruction in bombing tests in 1923. New Jersey was sunk on 5 September 1923 off Cape Hatteras as a target ship.

[[Pacific Time Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Time zones

The Pacific Time Zone is one of the time zones in the world. It is based on the mean solar time of the 105th meridian west of the Greenwich Observatory. Normally, its time is 8 hours before Coordinated Universal Time. The time zone is in the United States, Canada and Mexico. The biggest city in the zone is Los Angeles, California; its metropolitan area is the largest in the zone. During Daylight Savings Time, the Pacific Time Zone is represented by UTC−7. 

This time zone is called Pacific Time (PT) During Winter it is Pacific Standerd Time (PST) which is UTC-8 and in summer it is Pacific Daylight Time (PDT) which is UTC-7.

Places that are in Pacific Time Zone

Canada

All of Yukon, Tungsten, Northwest Territories and Most of British Columbia

United States

It includes the entire states of Washington and California

It also contains most of Oregon and Nevada

Parts of the Idaho Panhandle are part of the Pacific Time Zone

Mexico

Baja California Norte uses Pacific Time Zone

[[Ooid]]

CATEGORIES: Sedimentary rocks

An ooid is a small rounded sedimentary rock. Like sand grains, ooids have a diameter of 2 mm or less. Larger grains formed the same way as ooids are called pisoids. Rock made of ooids is oolite.

[[2015 San Bernardino shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in California, 2015 murders in the United States, 2010s crimes in California, December events, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2015, Islamic terrorist incidents in the United States, Mass murder in California, Mass shootings in California, Massacres in the United States, Murders by firearm in California, San Bernardino, California

The 2015 San Bernardino shooting was a mass shooting in San Bernardino, California. It started at 10:59 a.m. Pacific Standard Time (PST) on December 2, 2015. At least fourteen people were killed and seventeen were wounded. It happened at the Inland Regional Center. The shooters may have targeted a banquet hosted by San Bernardino County Department of Public Health. The shooters left in an SUV.

The two suspected shooters, one woman and one man, Tashfeen Malik and Syed Rizwan Farook, were killed by police during a gunfight. 

[[Abduction (logic)]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

Abduction is the kind of practical logic which answers questions of the type "how did this come about?". It produces answers which are not guaranteed to be correct. Consider the observation that the lawn is wet in the morning. How did that happen? In London, the answer is most often that it rained. But in Los Angeles it is much more likely that someone left the sprinkler on.

Abduction is logical inference which goes from an observation to a theory which accounts for the observation. It makes the simplest and most likely explanation. In abductive reasoning, unlike in deductive reasoning, the premises do not guarantee the conclusion. Abductive reasoning is "inference to the best explanation".

The philosopher Charles Sanders Peirce (1839–1914) introduced abduction into modern logic.

[[Linezolid]]

CATEGORIES: Antibiotics

Linezolid is an antibiotic. It can heal serious infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria that other antibiotics are do not heal. Linezolid is active against most Gram-positive bacteria which cause disease, like streptococci and MRSA. It is mainly used to treat infections of the skin and pneumonia.

It is relatively safe to take linezolid for short periods. It can be used in people of all ages and in people with liver disease or poor kidney function. Common harmful effects of short-term use include headache, diarrhea, and nausea. Long-term use, however, has been associated with more serious harmful effects.

Linezolid was discovered in the 1990s by a team at Pharmacia & Upjohn Company. It was first approved for use in 2000. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, which is a list of medications needed in a basic health system. Linezolid costs approximately US$100 per tablet in the United States. 

[[Isis (disambiguation)]]

Isis is the name of an Egyptian goddess. It may also refer to:

[[Cheshire (disambiguation)]]

Cheshire (ˈ CHESH) is a county in England. 

Cheshire may also refer to:

[[Cheshire, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Massachusetts, Berkshire County, Massachusetts

Cheshire is a town in Berkshire County, Massachusetts, United States. It is part of the Pittsfield, Massachusetts Metropolitan Statistical Area. At the 2010 census, 3,235 people lived in Cheshire.

[[Jenna Dewan]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Hartford, Connecticut, American dancers, American movie actors, American television actors, 1980 births, Living people

Jenna Lee Dewan Tatum (born December 3, 1980) is an American actress and dancer. She began her career as a backup dancer for Janet Jackson. Later she worked with artists including Pink, Missy Elliott, and Christina Aguilera. She is known for her role as Nora in the 2006 film Step Up for which she won a Teen Choice Award. She has also starred on the short-lived NBC series The Playboy Club. Tatum had a recurring role on the FX series American Horror Story: Asylum. She was Freya Beauchamp on the Lifetime series Witches of East End. Dewan has been married to actor Channing Tatum since 2009.

[[Pittsfield, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Massachusetts, Cities in Massachusetts, Berkshire County, Massachusetts

Pittsfield is a city in Massachusetts, United States.  It is the largest city and the county seat of Berkshire County. It is the main city of the Pittsfield Metropolitan Statistical Area which includes all of Berkshire County. The population was 44,737 at the 2010 census.

[[Pittsfield]]

Pittsfield may refer to:

[[Sandy Berger]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, American lawyers, American lobbyists, Cancer deaths in Washington, D.C., Cornell University alumni, Harvard University alumni, Jewish American criminals, Jewish American politicians, Jewish lawyers, Politicians from New York, United States National Security Advisors, US Democratic Party politicians

Samuel Richard "Sandy" Berger (October 28, 1945 – December 2, 2015) was an American political consultant of Jewish descent. He served as the United States National Security Advisor for President Bill Clinton from March 14, 1997 until January 20, 2001. Before that, he served as the Deputy National Security Advisor for the Clinton Administration from January 20, 1993 until March 14, 1997.

In 2005, Berger got a fine of $50,000 and had to do 100 hours of community service because he had taken documents from the National Archives in Washington although he wasn't allowed to do this.

Sandy Berger died of cancer of unknown primary origin in Washington, D.C. on December 2, 2015, aged 70.

[[Robert E. Glennen]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, American educators, People from Billings, Montana

Robert Eugene Glennen, Jr., PhD (March 31, 1933 – December 1, 2015) was an American education administrator. He served as Emporia State University's thirteenth president in Emporia, Kansas. Before president of Emporia State, Glennen also served as the tenth president at Western New Mexico University, many administrative jobs at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas and the University of Notre Dame.

Glennen was born in Billings, Montana. He died in Las Vegas, Nevada at the age of 82.

[[Suffolk (disambiguation)]]

Suffolk is one of the Counties of England. 

Suffolk may also refer to:

In geography:

In ships:

In fauna:

In other:

[[Joseph Engelberger]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American physicists, Engineers from New York, Scientists from New York City, Scientists from Connecticut, Businesspeople from New York City, Businesspeople from Connecticut

 Joseph Frederick Engelberger (July 26, 1925 – December 1, 2015) was an American physicist, engineer and entrepreneur. Engelberger created the first industrial robot in the United States, the Unimate, in the 1950s. He was born in Brooklyn, New York.

Later, he worked as entrepreneur and vocal advocate of robotic technology beyond the manufacturing plant in a variety of fields, including service industries, health care, and space exploration. He has been called "the father of robotics" for his works to the field.

Engelberger died in Newtown, Connecticut from complications following a stroke at the age of 90.

[[Jim Loscutoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Boston Celtics players, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in Florida, Sportspeople from San Francisco, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

James "Jim" Loscutoff Jr (February 4, 1930 – December 1, 2015) was a professional American basketball player for the NBA. He played for the Boston Celtics from 1955 through 1964. He was a forward. Loscutoff played on seven Celtics championship teams between 1956 and 1964. He was born in San Francisco, California.

Loscutoff died in Naples, Florida from complications of pneumonia and Parkinson's disease at the age of 85.

[[Suffolk County, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Massachusetts counties, 1643 establishments, 1640s establishments in Massachusetts

Suffolk County is a county in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. 767,254 people lived there in 2014. Its county seat is Boston, the state capital and largest city.

[[Middlesex (disambiguation)]]

Middlesex is a former county in southeast England.

[[Carthage, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Missouri, Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Carthage is a city in the U.S. state of Missouri. The population was 14,378 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Jasper County. It is nicknamed "America's Maple Leaf City."

[[Jasper County, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Jasper County, Missouri, 1841 establishments in Missouri

Jasper County is a county in the U.S. state of Missouri. As of the 2010 census, the population was 117,404. Its county seat is Carthage. Its largest city is Joplin. The county was formed in 1841. It was named for William Jasper, a hero of the American Revolutionary War.

[[Jackson County]]

Jackson County is the name of 24 counties in the United States:

[[Jasper County]]

Jasper County is the name of eight counties in the United States.

[[Jackson County, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Missouri counties, 1820s establishments in Missouri, 1826 establishments in the United States

Jackson County is a county in the U.S. state of Missouri. In 2010, the population was 674,158. This county has the second-highest number of people in the state, after St. Louis County. It has two county capitals, Independence and Kansas City. The county was created December 15, 1826. It was named for President Andrew Jackson (elected 1828).

[[Kylo Ren]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2015, Star Wars characters

Kylo Ren (born Ben Solo) is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He was introduced in the 2015 movie Star Wars: The Force Awakens. He was portrayed by Adam Driver. He is the main villain of The Force Awakens, The Last Jedi , and is redeemed in the final installment  ''The Rise of Skywalker.

Kylo Ren is the pseudonym of Ben Solo, the son of original Star Wars trilogy characters Han Solo, who he later killed, and Leia Organa. Though trained by his uncle Luke Skywalker as a Jedi, he has been drawn to the dark side of the Force, and wants to be as powerful as his grandfather, Darth Vader who he praised and thought was the king of evil, not the one who killed the emperor. Throughout all of The Force Awakens and the first two acts of The Last Jedi, Ren wants to be fully committed to the dark side, but there are times where the light side tries to pull him back in. This can be seen because when he kills his father Han, he hesitates before he does it. Even when he has a chance to kill his mother Leia, he chooses not to after giving it thought. This makes him a complex character.  

Kylo Ren is the master of the Knights of Ren and a commander for the First Order, an organization created from the fallen Galactic Empire.The First Order believed that the Empire's leader, Emperor Palpatine, had been killed by Luke Skywalker, not Darth Vader. He is featured in The Force Awakens media and merchandising, and has appeared in the movie's sequel, Star Wars: Episode VIII - The Last Jedi.

[[Adam Driver]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Actors from San Diego, California, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors

Adam Douglas Driver (born November 19, 1983) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles in the TV show Girls and the Star Wars movies.

[[Car classification]]

CATEGORIES: Land vehicles, Transport lists

Governments and private organizations have developed car classifications that are used for a number of purposes. These include regulation, description and categorization, among others. The following are commonly used classifications in use worldwide:

[[Scott Weiland]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2015 deaths, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, American adoptees, American heavy metal musicians, American rock singers, American Roman Catholics, Deaths from cardiac arrest, People from San Jose, California, People with bipolar disorder, Singers from California, Singers from Ohio

Scott Weiland (born Scott Richard Kline; October 27, 1967 – December 3, 2015) was an American musician, singer and songwriter. His career lasted three decades. He was best known as the lead singer for the rock band Stone Temple Pilots from when they formed in 1986 until he was fired in 2013. He was also the lead singer of band Velvet Revolver from 2003 to 2008. That band had members from another popular band, Guns N' Roses, and were called a "supergroup" because of this. 

Weiland was born in San Jose, California. At age five, he was adopted by his stepfather and moved to Ohio. Weiland moved back to California in his teens.

After he was fired from Stone Temple Pilots, Weiland formed a solo band called the Wildabouts. They released an album in March 2015 called "Blaster" but their guitar player, Jeremy Brown, died the day before it came out. Weiland himself died on this band's tour bus in Bloomington, Minnesota on December 3, 2015 after drinking and taking drugs such as cocaine and ethanol. He was 48 years old. He had battled addictions to drugs for over 20 years, at first becoming addicted to heroin in the 1990s.

[[Eastern Shore of Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Maryland

The Eastern Shore of Maryland is on the east side of Chesapeake Bay. It consists of nine counties. In 2004 its population was nearly 441 thousand. This means about 8 percent of Marylanders live in this region. The term "Eastern Shore" distinguishes a territorial part of the State of Maryland from the Western Shore of Maryland, land west of the Chesapeake Bay.

The region has many beaches. Some of the best known and most often visited beaches are at Ocean City, Maryland. Ocean city is also known for its boardwalks and its tourist attractions. With a population of 24,000, Salisbury is the largest city. 

[[Casualty (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 television series debuts, 1980s British drama television series, 1980s British workplace television series, 1980s workplace drama television series, 1990s British drama television series, 1990s British workplace television series, 1990s medical television series, 1990s workplace drama television series, 2000s British drama television series, 2000s British workplace television series, 2000s medical television series, 2000s workplace drama television series, 2010s British drama television series, 2010s British workplace television series, 2010s medical television series, 2010s workplace drama television series, BBC television dramas, British workplace drama television series, English-language television programs

Casualty is a British television show aired on the BBC since 6 September 1986. It is the longest-running emergency medical drama television series in the world. It is filmed in Cardiff. The 1000th episode of Casualty aired on 25 June 2016, episode 39 of series 30.

[[Yossi Sarid]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, Columnists, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, Israeli opposition leaders, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish Israeli writers, Meretz politicians

Yossi Sarid (יֹוסֶף "יֹוסִי" שָׂרִיד‎; 24 October 1940 – 4 December 2015) was an Israeli news commentator and former politician. He served as a member of the Knesset for the Alignment, Ratz and Meretz between 1974 and 2006. He was the Minister of Education and Minister of the Environment, he led Meretz between 1996 and 2003 and served as Leader of the Opposition from 2001 to 2003.

He wrote a column for Haaretz.

Sarid was born in Rehovot and died on the evening of 4 December 2015 from a heart attack, aged 75.

[[Dag Skogheim]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Norwegian writers, Poets

Dag Skogheim (17 May 1928 – 4 December 2015) was a Norwegian teacher, poet, novelist, short story writer, biographer and non-fiction writer. He was born in Sømna. He made his literary debut in 1970 with the poetry collection ... gagns menneske. He was known for his 2001 novel Sanatorieliv. The book was awarded the Sverre Steen Prize from the Norwegian Historical Association in 2002.

Skogheim died in Oslo, Norway from complications following a stroke, aged 87.

[[Bill Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in British Columbia, Premiers of British Columbia, Privy Councillors (Canada)

William Richards Bennett, PC, OBC (August 18, 1932 – December 3, 2015), commonly known as Bill Bennett, was a Canadian politician. He was the 27th Premier of the Canadian province of British Columbia 1975–1986. He was a son of the former Premier, W. A. C. Bennett. He was a 3rd cousin, twice removed, of R.B. Bennett, eleventh Prime Minister of Canada.

Bennett died on December 3, 2015 at the age of 83 from Alzheimer's disease in Kelowna, British Columbia.

[[Ferenc Juhász]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Hungarian people, Poets

Ferenc Juhász (16 August 1928 – 2 December 2015) was a Hungarian poet. He received the Golden Wreath award in 1992. He was thought to be a close contender for the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1976.

Juhász published his first poem in 1946. In 1949, he published his first book of poems, The Winged Foal. His poems, including "The boy changed into a stag clamors at the gate of secrets", have been widely translated.

[[Quorn, South Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Australia

Quorn is a small town in the Flinders Ranges in the north of South Australia, 39 km northeast of Port Augusta.  In 2011 there were 1206 people living in  Quorn. Quorn is the home of the Flinders Ranges Council local government area. It is in the state Electoral district of Stuart and the federal Division of Grey.

It is also the home of the Pichi Richi Railway.

[[Gustavo Endres]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Brazilian volleyball players

Gustavo Endres (born August 23, 1975 in Passo Fundo, Brazil) is a retired Brazilian volleyball player.  

Endres played for Brazil's men's national volleyball team in 1997-2008.  The team won the gold medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. The team won the silver medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China.  

Endres was also a member of the 2002 and 2006 World Championship teams.  He won several medals in the World League, South American Championship, World Cup and the Grand Champions Cup.

[[Gilberto Amauri de Godoy Filho]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2000 Summer Olympics, Brazilian Olympians, Living people, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Brazilian volleyball players

Gilberto Amauri de Godoy Filho (born 23 December 1976 in Londrina) is a retired Brazilian professional volleyball player. He is usually known as known as Giba. He played as an outside hitter. 

[[Cicero, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Indiana

Cicero is a town in the state of Indiana, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 4,812.

[[Ashton Carter]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Defense, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US Democratic Party politicians

Ashton Baldwin "Ash" Carter (born September 24, 1954) is the former United States Secretary of Defense. He is also a physicist and a former Harvard University professor of Science and International Affairs. He was nominated by President Barack Obama, and confirmed by the Senate by a vote of 93–5, to replace Chuck Hagel as the US Secretary of Defense.

[[William McIlvanney]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Scotland, Scottish novelists, Scottish poets

William McIlvanney (25 November 1936 – 5 December 2015) was a Scottish novelist, short story writer, and poet.  McIlvanney was known for his works Laidlaw, The Papers of Tony Veitch, and Walking Wounded. They are all known for their portrayal of Glasgow in the 1970s. He is thought to be as "the father of 'Tartan Noir’" and Scotland's Camus.

[[Marília Pêra]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, Cancer deaths in Brazil, Deaths from lung cancer, People from Rio de Janeiro

Marília Pêra (22 January 1943 – 5 December 2015) was a Brazilian actress. She was called "one of the decade's 1980s ten best actresses" by Pauline Kael. 

Pêra won the National Society of Film Critics Award for Best Actress in 1982 for her role in Hector Babenco's famous movie Pixote. She received the Best Actress awards at the Gramado Film Festival (Triple Award Winner) and at the Cartegena Film Festival for Carlos Diegues' Better Days Ahead. Her other movies include Bar Esperanza,  Angels of the Night, and Diegues' Tieta.

Abel Pêra, also an actor from Brazil, was her uncle.

Pêra died in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil from lung cancer, aged 72.

[[Pauline Kael]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2001 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, American movie critics, Writers from California, Writers from New York City

Pauline Kael (k; June 19, 1919 – September 3, 2001) was an American movie critic who wrote for The New Yorker magazine from 1968 to 1991. Earlier in her career, her work appeared in City Lights, McCall's and The New Republic. 

Kael was known for her "witty, biting, highly opinionated, and sharply focused" reviews. Legendary critic Roger Ebert said that Kael "had a more positive influence on the climate for film in America than any other single person over the last three decades".

Kael was born in Petaluma, California. She studied at the University of California, Berkeley. Kael died in Great Barrington, Massachusetts from Parkinson's disease at the age of 82.

[[Quinnipiac University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Connecticut

Quinnipiac University ˈ is a private, nonsectarian, coeducational university. It is in Hamden, Connecticut, United States. 

The university grants undergraduate, graduate, and professional degrees through its College of Arts and Sciences; School of Business and Engineering; School of Communications; School of Health Sciences; School of Law; School of Medicine; School of Nursing and School of Education. Quinnipiac is home to the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute.

[[Hamden, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Connecticut

Hamden is a town in New Haven County, Connecticut, United States. The town's nickname is "The Land of the Sleeping Giant."  The population was 60,960 at the 2010 census. Hamden is a suburb of the city of New Haven.

[[Siddhi Savetsila]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2015 deaths, Civil servants, Military personnel of World War II, People from Bangkok, Thai military people, Thai politicians

Siddhi Savetsila (สิทธิ เศวตศิลา, Sitthi Sawetsila, sìttʰìʔ sàʔwèːtsìʔlaː, 7 January 1919 – 5 December 2015) was a Thai air force officer and politician. He served as the foreign minister of Thailand from 1980 to 1990. He was the Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand serving from January through August 1986. He has been a member of the Privy Council of King Bhumibol Adulyadej. 

Savetsila died at the age of 96 in Bangkok on 5 December 2015.

[[Mohel]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism, Occupations

A mohel is a person who circumcises Jewish baby boys eight days after they are born. This is a practice of Jewish law (Halakha). 

[[Farina, South Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Ghost towns, Towns in South Australia

Farina is a ghost town in South Australia. It is on the edge of the desert, with an unpredictable annual rainfall of 163.6 mm. It was a farming and railway town, part of the Ghan railway, 26 km north of Lyndhurst and 55 km south of Marree. In 2006 there were 55 people living near Farina.

Before 1878 Farina was called The Gums or Government Gums, It was an important waterhole in a dry desert. Farina was settled in 1878 by farmers who thought that if they ploughed the land and planted crops it would rain. It was named Farina after the Latin word for flour. The town was the railhead until 1884 when the railway reached Marree. During the wet years of the 1880s, plans were laid out for a town with 432 ¼-acre blocks. It was believed that it would be good for growing wheat and barley, however normal rainfall is not enough to grow these crops. Several silver and copper mines were dug in the surrounding area.

Farina grew to 600 people in the late 1800s.  The town had two hotels (the Transcontinental and the Exchange) and an underground bakery, a bank, two breweries, a general store, an Anglican church, five blacksmiths, a school and a brothel. In 1909, a 1143 kg iron meteorite was discovered north-east of the town.

Today all that is left are stone ruins and the elevated railway water tank. The post office closed in the 1960s and the railway line closed in the 1980s.

No one lives in the town, the closest people live at Farina station, a farm, west of the town.  A bush camping area has been set up by the owners of Farina station.

Volunteers have repaired the bakery and put up information signs.

[[Abortion in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Abortion, Azerbaijan

Abortion in Azerbaijan is legal upon request within the first twenty-eight weeks of pregnancy. 

After twenty-eight weeks, it is legal when:

Additionally, a physician may approve any other reason to carry out an abortion.

[[Onomatopoeia]]

CATEGORIES: Vocabulary

An onomatopoeia is a word that sounds like the sound it means: words that imitate particular sounds.

Examples:

[[Glenn Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1944 deaths, American jazz musicians, American military personnel of World War II, Aviation deaths, Bandleaders, Musicians from Iowa, Missing in action, Missing American people

Alton Glenn Miller (March 1, 1904 – missing in action December 15, 1944) was an American big band musician, arranger, composer, and bandleader in the swing era. He was the best-selling recording artist from 1939 to 1943, leading one of the best known big bands. Miller's notable recordings include "In the Mood", "Moonlight Serenade", "Pennsylvania 6-5000", "Chattanooga Choo Choo", "A String of Pearls", "At Last", "(I've Got a Gal In) Kalamazoo", "American Patrol", "Tuxedo Junction", "Elmer's Tune", and "Little Brown Jug". During World War II, he led bands in the U.S. Army. While he was traveling in France during World War II, Glenn Miller's airplane disappeared over the English Channel.

[[New Palestine, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Indiana

New Palestine (pronounced PAL-es-teen) is a town in the state of Indiana, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 2,055.

[[The Ghan]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Australia, Rail transport in Australia

The Ghan is a passenger train between Adelaide, Alice Springs, and Darwin on the Adelaide–Darwin railway in Australia. The train is operated by Great Southern Rail. It takes 54 hours to travel the 2979 with a four-hour stop in Alice Springs.

[[Itanium]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components

Itanium (aɪ eye) is a type of Intel microprocessors with 64-bit chip architecture (not related to the by now mainstream 64-bit CPUs made by Intel and others). Itanium processors are sometimes used today for servers. Itanium processors where originally designed by HP and Intel with Intel making producing them, and several manufacturers of systems used them; nowhere as many systems used as originally hoped for. By now mostly HP still supports systems using these chips.

Intel officially announced the end of life and product discontinuance of the Itanium CPU family on January 30, 2019.

[[E. L. James]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Kent, English novelists, Writers from Buckinghamshire, Writers from London

Erika Mitchell (born 7 March 1963), known by her pen name as E. L. James is an English author. James was born in London. She was raised in Buckinghamshire. She studied History at the University of Kent. James wrote: Fifty Shades of Grey, Grey: Fifty Shades of Grey as Told by Christian, Fifty Shades Freed, and Fifty Shades Darker.

[[Ko Chun-hsiung]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Taiwanese movie actors, Movie directors, Movie producers, Taiwanese politicians, Taiwanese television actors

Ko Chun-hsiung (柯俊雄; 15 January 1945 – 7 December 2015) was a Taiwanese actor, director, producer and politician. His career began in the 1960s and had appeared in over 120 movies.

During his career he has won the Golden Horse Awards, two Asia Pacific Film Festival for Best Actor Awards, a Panama International Film Festival for Best Actor Award. In 2005, Chinese Film Association of Performance Art named Ko on the list of 100 Outstanding Artists in Chinese Film (1905 - 2004).

Chun-hsiung died of lung cancer in Kaohsiung, Taiwan at the age of 70.

[[Holly Woodlawn]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from brain cancer, Deaths from liver cancer, Puerto Rican actors, Transgender and transsexual people

Holly Woodlawn (Haroldo Santiago Franceschi Rodriguez Danhakl; October 26, 1946 – December 6, 2015) was a transgender Puerto Rican actress and Warhol superstar. She was known for her roles in Trash (1970) and Women in Revolt (1972).

Woodlawn died in Los Angeles, California from brain cancer and liver cancer at the age of 69.

[[Uxbridge]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Hillingdon, Towns in London

Uxbridge is a town in west London which became a municipal borough in 1955. It has been part of the London Borough of Hillingdon since 1965. About 53,000 people live in Uxbridge. Its postcode is UB8.

[[Tolworth]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames

Tolworth is a suburban area of southwest London. Its postcodes are KT5 and KT6.

[[Fremington, Devon]]

CATEGORIES: North Devon, Villages in Devon

Fremington is a village in North Devon.

[[Kehelland]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in England, Hamlets in Cornwall

Kehelland (Kellihellan) is a hamlet in the northwest of Cornwall, England.

There is a small primary school and a horticultural centre called Kehelland Trust. Kehelland Trust supports adults with learning difficulties.

[[West Tisbury, Wiltshire]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in England, Settlements in Wiltshire

West Tisbury is a civil parish in southwest Wiltshire, England. The nearest city is Salisbury, which is about 13 miles away.

In West Tisbury there are five hamlets:

[[Einherjar]]

CATEGORIES: Norse mythology

In Norse mythology, the einherjar (lone-fighters) are warriors who have died in battle and are brought to Valhalla by valkyries. In Valhalla, the einherjar eat meat from the boar called Sæhrímnir. Every day he is boiled and every night he becomes whole again. They drink mead provided by a goat named Heiðrún. Every day they dress for battle and go out and fight each other. This is to prepare for the events of Ragnarök (the end of the world).

The einherjar are written about in the Prose Edda by Snorri Sturluson. Also in the poem written in the 13th century Hákonarmál, by Eyvindr skáldaspillir.

[[African plate]]

CATEGORIES: Tectonic plates, Africa

The African Plate is a major tectonic plate. It includes much of the continent of Africa, as well as the oceanic crust which lies between the continent and various surrounding ocean ridges. Since the continent of Africa includes the African Plate and the smaller plates to its right, some literature refers to the African Plate as the Nubian Plate to distinguish it from the continent as a whole.

Between 60 million years ago (mya) and 10 mya, the Somali Plate began rifting from the African Plate along the East African Rift.

One hypothesis suggests a mantle plume beneath the Afar region. Another hypothesis suggests the rifting is just a zone of weakness as the  plates to its east move northwards.

The African Plate's speed is about 2.15 per year. It has been moving over the past 100 million years or so in a general northeast direction. This is drawing it closer to the Eurasian Plate. There is subduction where oceanic crust meets continental crust (in parts of the central and eastern Mediterranean). 

Along its northeast margin, the African Plate is bounded by the Red Sea rift where the Arabian Plate is moving away from the African Plate.

The African, Somali and Arabian Plates were once all part of the great southern supercontinent Gondwana, as was the Indian subcontinent.

[[OpenStep]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

OpenStep was an operating system by NeXT. It is an x86 version of the NeXTStep operating system, which was also by NeXT.

[[Rhapsody (operating system)]]

CATEGORIES: Apple software

Rhapsody was the name given to Apple Computer's next-generation operating system. Apple got the Rhapsody operating system when they bought NeXT Inc. from Steve Jobs for $425 million. The same year Apple released Rhapsody to software developers so they could create versions of their software for the next release of the Apple operating system. But a key software vendor, Adobe Systems, did not like Apple's plan for the new OS. Without Adobe supporting them Apple decided not to go ahead with Rhapsody. Rhapsody was replaced by OS X, scheduled for 1999.

[[Palmchat]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Central America, Dominican Republic, Passeriformes

The palmchat (Dulus dominicus) is a small passerine bird. It is the national bird of the Dominican Republic.

[[Arabian bustard]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Africa, Birds of Asia, Gruiformes

The Arabian bustard (Ardeotis arabs) is a bird native to North Africa and the Middle East. It lives in the Sahel region (Mauritania, Senegal, Gambia, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Nigeria, Chad, Sudan), South Sudan, Kenya, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Djibouti, Somalia, Saudi Arabia and Yemen.

As in all bustards, the male Arabian bustard is much larger than the female. Males have been found to weigh 5.7, while females weigh 4.5. The record-sized male Arabian bustard weighed 16.8. These birds stand from 70 tall in females to 92 tall in males.

[[National Bohemian]]

CATEGORIES: Beer

National Bohemian Beer is an American beer first made in Baltimore, Maryland. It is a premium Bohemian-style beer. Many people call it "Natty Boh" as a nickname.

[[Service animal]]

CATEGORIES: Animals, Disability

Service animals are animals that have been trained to do things to help people with disabilities.  Service animals may also be called assistance animals, assist animals, support animals, or helper animals, depending on the country and what the animal does.

[[The Swan of Tuonela]]

CATEGORIES: Poems

The Swan of Tuonela is a tone poem by Finnish composer, Jean Sibelius.

[[Immovable property]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

Immovable property is property that cannot be moved from one place to another. It is generally connected to the ground or land on which it sits. The term immovable property also includes the land. 

In real estate law, immovable property has certain rights of ownership that go with title (full or partial) to that property. These may include rights to buildings, rights to collect rent, inherited rights, right of ways, ferries or fisheries. It generally does not include such things as grass, crops, or standing timber. 

In much of the world's civil law systems is the same as "real property"; it is land or any permanent feature or structure above or below the surface. In some countries, China for example, private ownership of land is not allowed. Individuals in China may obtain land rights for a fixed number of years for a fee. These rights may be transfered by legal means including gift or sale. They may also own houses, buildings or apartments, but not the land they sit on. In the United States immovable property is also known as real estate. In the United Kingdom it is also known as property. 

[[Burmese calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Myanmar, Calendars, 640s establishments, 7th-century establishments in Asia, Establishments in Myanmar

The Burmese calendar is a calendar where the months are based on lunar months. It is based on an older version of the Hindu calendar. It has been used in Myanmar since 640 CE. Today it is used as together with the Buddhist calendar.

[[Extortion]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

In law, extortion is a criminal offense. It is obtaining money, property, or service from a person or institution, through coercion. This may be by threat to a victim, to their property or family. It may also be by false claim (such as claiming to be a public official). Another form of extortion is offering a business owner "protection"; for example, to keep the business free from vandalism or burglary. In all states of the United States extortion is a felony.

Extortion may be in person, by telephone, mail, e-mail, text message or any form of wireless communication. If the extortion involves any form of interstate commerce, it may be a federal crime. It may involve the threat of hacking.

Extortion, like robbery and blackmail, are crimes that involve obtaining property by illegal means. The most serious of the three is robbery because it usually involves violence against the victim. Blackmail is a form of extortion. The threat is usually making damaging or embarrassing information public if demands are not met. The legal definition of extortion varies from one jurisdiction to another. In some states, extortion is only charged against public officials while the same act committed by a private individual is charged as blackmail.

[[Sonja Henie]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1969 deaths, Actors from Oslo, Figure skaters, Norwegian movie actors, Norwegian Olympians, Olympic gold medalists

Sonja Henie (8 April 1912 – 12 October 1969) was a famous Norwegian ice skater and movie star who was born in Oslo. She was a three-time Olympic Champion (1928, 1932, 1936) in Ladies' Singles, a ten-time World Champion (1927–1936) and a six-time European Champion (1931–1936). In 1936 she became a professional skater. Later she decided to become a movie star. At the height of her acting career she was one of the highest paid stars in Hollywood. Henie's connections with Adolf Hitler and other high-ranking Nazi officials made her the subject of controversy before, during, and after World War II. Sonja Henie ruled the " queen of ice" in her life and she still was one of the most influential people in figure skating. 

[[Marie Thérèse of France]]

CATEGORIES: French people

Marie Thérèse of France (Marie Thérèse Charlotte; 19 December 1778 – 19 October 1851), Madame Royale, was the eldest child of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette. After her marriage to her cousin, Louis Antoine, Duke of Angoulême, the eldest son of the future Charles X, she was known as the Duchess of Angoulême. She became the Dauphine of France upon the accession of her father-in-law to the throne of France in 1824. Technically she was Queen of France for twenty minutes, on 2 August 1830. This was between the time her father-in-law signed the instrument of abdication and the time her husband, reluctantly, signed the same document.

[[Noisy miner]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Australia

The noisy miner (Manorina melanocephala) is a small grey bird with a black head and yellow eyes. This bird is common in the gardens of eastern Australian homes, but is not seen in Western Australia or the Northern Territory. The genus puts it in a large group of honey-eating birds. The species is a Latin word meaning "black-headed."

The noisy miner is a native of Australia, and one of the few native birds that is thriving in cities and suburbs.  In  some parts of Australia the number of noisy miners has grown to the point that it is driving out smaller birds like the wrens.  It prefers gardens with open spaces and lawns. 

It usually eats the nectar from garden flowers, mostly on grevilleas, however it also walks around on grass picking up and eating small insects. 

It is highly aggressive when other birds enter its area of garden or bush, and it flocks together with other nearby noisy miners to make small defensive groups called 'coteries' of four or five which cooperate to drive off kookaburras or magpies.  Sometimes they join together into even larger 'colonies' with up to a hundred or so birds.

The female will lay between two and four eggs in her nest, and food will be bought to the mother and her chicks by quite a few males in the coterie.  Bringing up the chicks is often done by the whole group.  They breed at any time in the year so there are often young noisy miners in the group. The younger birds usually have feathers and face colouring very similar to the adult birds, so it is often difficult to tell the difference.

They are sometimes called native miners, native mynas or native mynahs (actually an Indian spelling), and, in older bird books they might have up to twelve different names.  At one time they were thought to be mainly bee-eaters, but they eat the nectar of Australian native flowers. They are also known to eat fruit and insects, and at times small reptiles and amphibians. While the name is often spelled myna, or mynah, they are not related to the introduced brown/black-feathered "Indian" or "Common mynah" which is usually slightly larger and often found in the same area.

[[Martin E. Brooks]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from New York City, Actors from Pennsylvania, American military personnel of World War II, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Deaths from natural causes, People from the Bronx, People from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania

Martin E. Brooks (born Martin Baum; November 30, 1925 – December 7, 2015) was an American character actor. He was known for playing scientist Dr. Rudy Wells in the television series The Six Million Dollar Man (1973–1978) and its spin-off, The Bionic Woman (1976–1978). He played Wells in three television movies: The Return of the Six-Million-Dollar Man and the Bionic Woman (1987), Bionic Showdown: The Six Million Dollar Man and the Bionic Woman (1989) and Bionic Ever After? (1994). He had roles in Knots Landing, General Hospital, and Dallas. He also appeared in many Broadway productions. Brooks also wrote two novels.

Brooks was born in The Bronx, New York. He grew up in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. He served his country as a paratrooper during World War II.

Brooks died from natural causes on December 7, 2015 in Los Angeles, California. He was 90.

[[Nancy Lopez]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, American golfers, People from Torrance, California, Sportspeople from Los Angeles County, California

Nancy Marie Lopez (born January 6, 1957) is an American professional golfer. She was born in Torrance, California. She became a member of the LPGA Tour in 1977 and won 48 LPGA Tour events, including three major championships. 

During her first full season on the LPGA Tour in 1978, Lopez won nine tournaments, including five consecutive. She appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated in July of that year. She also won the Vare Trophy for lowest scoring average, LPGA Rookie of the Year, LPGA Player of the Year and was named the Associated Press Female Athlete of the Year. She won another eight times in 1979. Lopez has won multiple times in each year from 1980 to 1984, although she played only half-seasons in 1983 and 1984 due to the birth of her first child.

Lopez was considered the best golfer of her time. She was also considered outstanding at putting. She was also known for her kindness.

[[Meadowlark Lemon]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, African-American basketball players, Sportspeople from North Carolina, People from Wilmington, North Carolina, American basketball players

Meadow "Meadowlark" Lemon III (April 25, 1932 – December 27, 2015) was an American basketball player, actor, and Christian minister. For 22 years, Lemon was known as the "Clown Prince" of the touring Harlem Globetrotters basketball team.

Lemon played in more than 16,000 games for the Globetrotters and is a 2003 inductee of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. He was born in Wilmington, North Carolina.

He studied at a historically black college, Florida A&M University in 1952, but was drafted into the US Army before he could finish. The Globetrotters first became aware of Lemon in 1954 while he was in Austria in the army and they were touring Europe.

Lemon died on December 27, 2015 in Scottsdale, Arizona, aged 83.

[[Olga Korbut]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Belarusian sportspeople, Gymnasts, Medalists at the 1972 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1976 Summer Olympics, Soviet Olympic gold medalists, Soviet Olympic silver medalists, Teachers

Olga Valentinovna Korbut (born May 16, 1955 in Grodno, Belarus), also known as the "Sparrow from Minsk", is a retired Belarusian gymnast. She won four gold medals and two silver medals at the Summer Olympic Games, in which she competed in 1972 and 1976 for the Soviet team. She could do backwards flips from the balance beam and uneven parallel bars, when no one else could. 

After her retirement from gymnastics, she became a teacher.

[[Kayapo people]]

CATEGORIES: South American people

The Kayapo (Portuguese: Caiapó kɐjɐˈpɔ) people are an indigenous people in Brazil. They are found along the plain islands of the Mato Grosso and Pará in Brazil, south of the Amazon Basin and along Rio Xingu and its tributaries. Kayapo call themselves "Mebengokre", which means "people of the wellspring". Kayapo people also call outsiders "Poanjos".

[[Territorialism]]

Territorialism may refer to: 

[[Tiberius Claudius Cogidubnus]]

CATEGORIES: History of England

Tiberius Claudius Cogidubnus was a 1st century king of the Regnenses in early Roman Britain. Cogidubnus ruled at Chichester. When the Roman Emperor Claudius conquered Britain he set himself up at Colchester and received the submission of the various tribes. Cogidubnus was one of those who submitted to him. Claudius confirmed Cogidubnus' kingdom and even expanded its borders. Cogidubnus was given the unusual title rex legatus Augusti in Britannia. When Cogidubnus became a Roman citizen he took the name "Tiberius Claudius Cogidubnus". He was a loyal client-king to the Romans. He convinced his people to remain loyal to india

. 

[[Oxford University Press]]

CATEGORIES: University of Oxford, Publishing companies of the United Kingdom, University presses

Oxford University Press (OUP) is the largest university press in the world, and the second-oldest, after Cambridge University Press. It is a department of the University of Oxford. It is governed by the Delegates of the Press. This is a group of 15 members of the university. They are headed by the Secretary to the Delegates, who serves as OUP' s chief executive and as its major representative on other university bodies. Oxford University has been using this system of contol since the 17th century.

The university started printing books around 1480. It soon grew into a major printer of Bibles, prayer books, and scholarly works. It began what later became the Oxford English Dictionary in the late 19th century. Over the last hundred years, Oxford has grown and now publishes children's books, school text books, music, journals, the World's Classics series, a best-selling range of English Language Teaching texts, as well as its academic and religious titles. It opened its first international office in New York in 1896.  Changes caused by computer technology and the need to lower costs, led to the Press contracting out its printing and binding work. The Press's printing house at Oxford was closed in 1989. Its former paper mill at Wolvercote was demolished in 2004. 

The Press publishes about 6,000 new titles around the world every year. It is a charitable organization, its profits go to the University of Oxford. The university's aims of excellence in scholarship, research, and education are supported through its publishing activities.

[[Moeraki Boulders]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Landforms, New Zealand

The Moeraki Boulders are a rock formation in New Zealand. They are unusually large and spherical boulders on Koekohe Beach on the Otago coast, between Moeraki and Hampden. Some of the boulders are in groups, while others stand by themselves. The area has been protected in a scientific reserve.

The boulders sit in mudstone, which is eroded by the action of the waves along the beach. This leaves the boulders exposed on the sand.

Local Māori legends say the boulders as the remains of eel baskets, calabashes, and kumara washed ashore from the wreck of Arai-te-uru, a large sailing canoe. The rocks that extend seaward from Shag Point are the petrified hull of this shipwreck. A nearby rocky promontory is the body of the canoe's captain.

In 1848 a drawing of the beach and its boulders, shows there were more than now. This picture is now in the Alexander Turnbull Library in Wellington. The boulders were described in 1850 colonial reports and numerous popular articles since that time. In more recent times they have become a popular tourist attraction, often described and pictured in numerous web pages and tourist guides.

[[Religious law]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms

Religious law comes from the sacred texts of various religions. They cover most parts of personal and contract law. Most religious law systems are either based on Islamic law (Sharia) or Judaic law (Halakha). Religious laws generally are used in countries that also have other legal systems such as civil or common law.

[[Buckwheat Zydeco]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Musicians from Louisiana, People from Lafayette, Louisiana

Buckwheat Zydeco was the stage name of Stanley Dural, Jr. (November 14, 1947 – September 24, 2016) was an American accordionist and zydeco musician. 

He was one of the few zydeco artists to become popular. His music group was known as Buckwheat Zydeco and Ils Son Partis Band, but often they perform as merely Buckwheat Zydeco.

Dural died of lung cancer at age 68 on September 24, 2016 in a hospital in Lafayette, Louisiana.

[[Elsie Tu]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2015 deaths, British centenarians, English activists, English politicians, Activists from Hong Kong, People from Newcastle upon Tyne

Elsie Tu, GBM, CBE (née Hume; 杜葉錫恩; 2 June 1913 – 8 December 2015), was an English-born Hong Kong social activist. She was born in Newcastle upon Tyne. She was an elected member of the Urban Council of Hong Kong, and member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. She became known for her strong opposition of colonialism and corruption.

[[Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 in the United States, United States federal legislation, 1990s in law

documentationThe Americans with Disabilities Act (the ADA) is a law that was passed by the United States Congress in 1990.  President George H. W. Bush signed the ADA, making it an official United States law, on July 26, 1990.  Later, President George W. Bush amended (changed) the ADA and signed those changes into law.  The changes started on January 1, 2009.

The ADA is a detailed civil rights law whose goal is to protect people with disabilities from discrimination.  Before the ADA, people with disabilities did not have many legal protections.  In 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed.  This law made it illegal to discriminate against people because of their race, religion, gender, national origin (home country), and many other things.  But people with disabilities were not included or protected under the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  The ADA gave the Civil Rights Act's protections - and some others - to people with disabilities.

[[Matey Kaziyski]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, 2008 Summer Olympics, Bulgarian sportspeople, Olympians, Volleyball players

Matey Kaziyski (Матей Казийски; born 23 September 1984) is a Bulgarian volleyball player. He was a member of Bulgaria men's national volleyball team in 2003-2012 and Japanese club Panasonic Panthers, a participant of the Olympic Games Beijing 2008, bronze medalist of the World Championship 2006, World Cup 2007 and European Championship 2009. He is a multiple winner of the CEV Champions League and FIVB Club World Championship with the Italian club Trentino Volley.

[[Alan Hodgkinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, 1958 FIFA World Cup players, 1962 FIFA World Cup players, English footballers, Sportspeople from Yorkshire

Alan Hodgkinson MBE (16 August 1936 – 8 December 2015) was an English professional football goalkeeper and goalkeeping coach. 

[[William B. Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian radio actors, Canadian television directors, Canadian activists, Actors from Toronto

William Bruce Davis (born January 13, 1938) is a Canadian actor, television director, and activist. He is best known for his role as The Smoking Man on The X-Files. Recently, he has been an activist to stop global warming.

Davis was born in Toronto, Ontario.

[[Isuzu Rodeo]]

CATEGORIES: Automobiles, Sport utility vehicles

The Isuzu Rodeo was a mid-size SUV sold from 1991-2004. From 1991-1997, the 2.6-liter 4-cylinder 120 horsepower engine was standard on the 2WD Rodeo S. The Rodeo had an optional V6 engine and four-wheel drive. The first series Rodeos had a number of safety issues. It had very poor crash test scores. Front airbags were installed for the first time in 1995. The second generation Rodeo came out in 1998. A new V6 engine gave it much more power. While the exterior design did not change very much, it became known as one of the best SUVs available at the time. But it could not keep up with the other SUVs in the market. Isuzu would later replace the Rodeo with the Ascender, a badge-engineered GMC Envoy in 2005

[[GMC Envoy]]

CATEGORIES: General Motors vehicles, Sport utility vehicles

The GMC Envoy was a midsize SUV sold by the GMC division of General Motors. It was introduced in 1998. In 2002 the Envoy was improved and rode on the same chassisas the new Chevrolet TrailBlazer. The Envoy was later given an extended wheelbase. In 2004 it was given a trim package called XUV. This was an Envoy XL with no third row seating and a retractable roof over the cargo bay. This was an attempt to make it both an SUV and a pickup truck. The resulting odd-looking Envoy XUV did not sell well. 2009 was the last model year for the Envoy. It had daytime running lights, electronic stability control, anti-lock brakes and a rollover sensor that automatically deployed the side curtain air bags. It was replaced by the GMC Terrain.

[[Isiah Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: African-American basketball players, 1961 births, American basketball players, Living people

Isiah Lord Thomas III (born April 30, 1961) is a retired American basketball player. He played professionally for the Detroit Pistons in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Thomas was just over 6 feet tall, making him a "small man" by basketball standards. He was one of the greatest point guards in basketball history. His only peer in the 1980s was Earvin "Magic" Johnson who played for the Los Angeles Lakers.

[[Audencia Nantes School of Management]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 establishments in France, Education in France, Nantes

Audencia Nantes School of Management is a business school in Nantes, France. It is accredited by the Association of MBAs (AMBA), European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS) and the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).  The school enrolls 3000 students from almost 50 countries. It offers bachelor's, international master's, specialised masters and MBAs degrees. It also offers executive education courses.

The school was started in 1900 as the École Supérieure de Commerce de Nantes. The school's name was changed in 2000 to its current name, Audencia Nantes School of Management. The name Audencia comes from two Latin words: audientia (meaning to hear or listen) and audacia (meaning boldness or daring).

The school has a partnership with the French Civil Aviation University for a dual degree engineering / management.

[[Ramus Pomifer]]

CATEGORIES: Former constellations

Ramus Pomifer (Latin for apple branch) was a constellation found between Hercules and Lyra. It represented a branch held in Hercules' left hand. It later formed a new constellation: Cerberus et Ramus (along with Cerberus, that shared many of the same stars).

[[Natural Wonder]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums, Live CD, R&B albums, Soul albums

Natural Wonder is a live album by American musician Stevie Wonder. It was recorded in Osaka, Japan and released on November 21, 1995. It was both Wonder's second album to be released in 1995 and his fourth live album and first since 1970's Stevie Wonder Live.

[[At the Close of a Century]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 albums, Greatest hits albums, R&B albums, Soul albums, Jazz albums, Funk albums

At the Close of a Century is a box set album that has Stevie Wonder's greatest hits from 1962-1995 and was released on November 21, 1999.

[[The Definitive Collection (Stevie Wonder album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 albums, 2003 albums, Greatest hits albums, R&B albums, Soul albums

Stevie Wonder: The Definitive Collection is a greatest hits album, released in 2002, by American singer Stevie Wonder.

[[Ordinary (liturgy)]]

CATEGORIES: Christian music

The catholic mass is made of two parts: One that changes during the year, and the other one that does not. The one that does not change is usually called Ordinary. The part that canges is usually called Proper. The Latin names for these are Ordinarium and Proprium. When talkin about the music performed in Church, an ordinary usually consists of the following (which are either songs or prayers):

Protestant and Eastern Orthodox often use the same songs, but they have adapted the texts. Nowadays, the text is often translated to the local language.

[[Shirley Stelfox]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Actors from Cheshire, Cancer deaths in England, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors

Shirley Stelfox (11 April 1941 – 7 December 2015) was an English actress. She was best known for her role as Edna Birch on the British soap opera Emmerdale.

Stelfox died in Yorkshire Dales, Yorkshire from cancer of unknown primary origin on 7 December 2015, aged 74.

[[Mattiwilda Dobbs]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, African-American singers, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia

Mattiwilda Dobbs (July 11, 1925 – December 8, 2015) was an African-American coloratura soprano. She was one of the first black singers to enjoy a major international career in opera. After winning the International Music Competition in Geneva, Switzerland, in 1951, she made her professional operatic debut at the Holland Festival, as the Nightingale in Stravinsky's The Nightingale, in 1952.

Dobbs died on December 8, 2015 at her home in Atlanta, Georgia of cancer of unknown primary origin at the age of 90.

[[Bonnie Lou]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Disease-related deaths in Ohio, American country musicians, American rock singers, American television personalities, Actors from Illinois, Singers from Illinois, Musicians from Illinois

Mary Joan Okum (née Kath; October 27, 1924 – December 8, 2015), known by her performing name Bonnie Lou, was an American musical pioneer. She was one of first female rock and roll singers. She was also one of the first artists to gain crossover success from country music to rock and roll. She was the "top name" on the first country music program regularly broadcast on a national TV network. 

Lou was one of the first female co-hosts of a successful television talk show, and a regular musical performer on popular shows in the 1960s and 1970s. She "was a prime mover in the first days of rockabilly," and is a member of the Rockabilly Hall of Fame.

Lou died from complications of dementia under hospice care in Cincinnati, Ohio, aged 91.

[[Abduction]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms, International law

Abduction is the criminal act of taking a person away by means of fraud, persuasion, by threat of violence or by force. Kidnapping, by comparison, is limited to a threat of violence or forcefully taking adults or the by the taking of children. It often involves some form of false imprisonment. In some states, kidnapping and abduction are treated as the same thing. But in most jurisdictions they are separate crimes. Unlawful interference with family members such as removing a child from its parents is abduction. It does not matter if the minor consents or not. Kidnapping is the unlawful taking of a person against their will. Abduction can also mean the taking of any female person for the purposes of prostitution, concubinage or (forced) marriage. 

[[Embezzlement]]

CATEGORIES: Crime, Legal terms

Embezzlement is the theft or misappropriating of funds or assets belonging to a company or government. It is the misusing of property lawfully entrusted to a person who then converts it for his or her own use. Accounting embezzlement is hiding the theft of funds by the manipulation of accounting records. Embezzlement is most commonly a corporate crime.

There are many different ways to embezzle funds. "Skimming off the top" is when a person continually takes a small amount over a period of time. Someone may disappear after taking a large amount of funds. Managers may steal money by under-reporting income and keeping the unreported funds.

The US Internal Revenue Service requires the reporting of all income when a person files their income tax forms. Failure to include embezzled funds in their gross income can bring charges of tax evasion by the IRS. This is in addition to any other jurisdictions criminal charges of embezzlement. 

[[Action role-playing game]]

CATEGORIES: Role-playing video games, Video game genres

Action role-playing games (or action RPG) is a sub-genre of role-playing video games. It includes action or action-adventure games.

[[Eskender Mustafaiev]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Ukrainian sportspeople, Paralympic gold medalists, Swimmers, Living people

Eskender Mustafaiev (Ukrainian: Ескендер Аметович Мустафаєв; born July 17, 1981) is a swimmer from Aqyar/Sevastopil. Ukraine.  He won a gol medal at the 2012 Summer Paralympics in the 50 metre freestyle S4 race.

[[Deimatic defence]]

CATEGORIES: Ethology

Deimatic defence is when prey startle predators and so get time to escape. The predator gets a shock, and often jumps back when startled. Many prey use this tactic when a predator gets close. It is an anti-predator defence.

This method is a fake, where a real aposematic warning signal is genuine. Many species of frog put on warning displays; but only some of these species do have poison glands. 

Displays are classified as deimatic or aposematic by the responses of the animals that see them. 

In the second case, the behaviour is both deimatic and aposematic. It startles the predator, and the display truly indicates the prey is bad to eat. 

[[Tax advantage]]

CATEGORIES: Taxation

Tax advantage refers to the financial gain which applies to certain accounts or investments. These include accounts that are, by statute, tax-reduced, tax-deferred, or tax-free. Governments establish tax advantages to encourage private individuals to contribute money when it is considered to be in the public interest. An example is retirement plans, which often offer tax advantages to incentivize savings for retirement. In the United States municipal bonds may also be exempt from certain taxes.  

In countries in which the average age of the population is increasing, tax advantages may put pressure on pension plans. For example, where benefits are funded on a pay-as-you-go basis, the benefits paid to those receiving a pension come directly from the contributions (money paid) of those of working age. If the proportion of pensioners to working-age people rises, the contributions needed from working people will also rise proportionately. In the United States, the rapid onset of Baby Boomer retirement is currently causing such a problem.

[[Eye-spot (mimicry)]]

CATEGORIES: Ethology, Mimicry

An eye-spot (or ocellus) is an eye-like marking on the body of an animal. They are found on butterflies, reptiles, felids, birds and fish.

Eye-spots may be a form of mimicry: the spot looks like the eye of a larger animal. Its function may be to draw a predator's attention away from the most vulnerable body parts; or to look like an unpleasant or dangerous animal. 

In larger animals, eyespots may play a role in intraspecies communication or courtship – the best-known example is probably the eyespots on a peacock's display feathers.

There is evidence that eyespots in butterflies are anti-predator defences. Some are deimatic displays to distract, startle or scare off predators, or at least to deflect attacks away from vital body parts. Butterfly eyespots may also play a role in mate recognition and sexual selection, like the eyespots on larger organisms.

[[Tax deduction]]

CATEGORIES: Finance, Taxation

A tax deduction is a way to reduce the amount of income that is subject to a tax. Tax deductions and tax credits both lower the amount of money a person has to pay in taxes. But they do it differently. A tax deduction is subtracted from the gross income of a taxpayer. For example, if a couple had an income of $60,000 for the year, and they had paid $10,000 in interest on their mortgage, their taxable income would be reduced to $50,000. The value of a tax deduction depends on a person's tax rate, which rises with income. A tax credit, by comparison, has the same value for all taxpayers. In the USA, there are hundreds of different tax deductions. Some are only available to taxpayers in certain income brackets. Some are available to businesses in particular industries.

[[Saimaa ringed seal]]

CATEGORIES: Pinnipeds

The Saimaa ringed seal (Pusa hispida saimensis) is a subspecies of ringed seal (Pusa hispida). Usually seals live in the sea, but Saimaa ringed seals live in Lake Saimaa in Finland. There are only 320 Saimaa ringed seals in the world. They are among the most endangered seals in the world. 

After the last ice age was over, dry land was rising slowly. This isolated Lake Saimaa from the sea. Some seals were also isolated in Saimaa. Their successors become Saimaa ringed seals.  

[[LGBT rights in Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT in the United States, Alaska

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons living in the U.S. state of Alaska are able to marry. A U.S. district court declared Alaska's denial of same-sex marriages unconstitutional on October 12, 2014.

[[Regnenses]]

CATEGORIES: History of England

The Regnenses, Regni or Regini were a British Celtic people. They were ruled by a king. Their their territory or kingdom was later a civitas of Roman Britain. Their capital was Noviomagus Reginorum, known today as Chichester in modern West Sussex.

Before the Romans conquered Britain their land and capital appear to have been part of the territory of the Atrebates. Possibly they were part of a confederation of tribes. The tribe made use of hill forts more than other tribes around them. Their location in southern England would have made them a more civilized people. They would have had contact with Europe through trading exposing them to new ideas. 'Regninses', means "people of the kingdom". It is not known how they came by that name. It was recorded by the Romans but it could be a translation or a name the Romans gave them.

Their ruler was Tiberius Claudius Cogidubnus. Tacitus said of him: Certain civitates were given to King Cogidubnus, who remained most loyal (to Rome) to within our own memory, following the long established custom of the Roman people of using even kings to make others slaves.

The theory that Cogidubnus was created legatus, a rank only ever given to senators, is based on reconstructing the damaged Chichester inscription. It would read as Cogidubni regis legati Augusti in Britannia ("king and imperial legate in Britain"). It could also be Cogidubni regis magni Britanniae ("great king of Britain").

[[Property tax]]

CATEGORIES: Taxation, Law

A property tax (or millage tax) is a levy on property that the owner is required to pay. The tax is imposed by the governing authority of the jurisdiction in which the property is located. The tax may be paid to a national, state, provincial, county, regional, or municipality governmant. Multiple jurisdictions may tax the same property.  This is in contrast to a rent or mortgage tax, which is based on a percentage of the rent or mortgage value.

There are four broad types of property: land, immovable property, personal property  and intellectual property. Real property (also called real estate or realty) means the combination of land and improvements. Under a property tax system, the government requires and/or performs an appraisal of the monetary value of each property. A tax is assessed based on that value. Forms of property tax used vary among countries and jurisdictions. Real property is often taxed based on its classification. Classification is the grouping of properties based on similar use. 

Properties in different classes are taxed at different rates. Examples of different classes of property are residential, commercial, industrial and vacant real property. Vacancy tax in Israel In Israel, for example, property tax rates are double for vacant apartments versus occupied apartments. In the Canadian province of British Columbia a speculation tax  on residential properties has been introduced in 2019.

A special assessment tax is sometimes confused with property tax. These are two distinct forms of taxation: one (Ad valorem tax) relies upon the appraised fair market value of the property being taxed. The other (special assessment) relies upon a special enhancement called a "benefit" for its justification.

The property tax rate is often given as a percentage. It may also be expressed as a per mille (amount of tax per thousand currency units of property value), which is also known as a millage rate or mill (which is also one-thousandth of a currency unit). To calculate the property tax, the authority will multiply the assessed value of the property by the mill rate. Then they will divide by 1,000. For example, a property with an assessed value of $50,000 located in a municipality with a mill rate of 20 mills would have a property tax bill of $1,000 per year.

[[Rusty Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in Chicago, American jazz musicians, American drummers, Musicians from Iowa, People from Cedar Rapids, Iowa

Isham Russell "Rusty" Jones II (April 13, 1942 – December 9, 2015), better known as Rusty Jones, was an American jazz drummer. He was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, but was raised in Chicago, Illinois. Jones was known for performing with Marian McPartland and Stéphane Grappelli.

Jones died in Chicago, Illinois from cancer, aged 73.

[[John Trudell]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, American poets, American activists, Musicians from Omaha, Nebraska, Actors from Omaha, Nebraska, Writers from Omaha, Nebraska

John Trudell (February 15, 1946 – December 8, 2015) was a Native American author, poet, actor, musician, and political activist. He was the spokesperson for the United Indians of All Tribes' takeover of Alcatraz beginning in 1969. He was partners with Marcheline Bertrand, Angelina Jolie's mother, until her death in 2007. During most of the 1970s, he served as the chairman of the American Indian Movement. He was born in Omaha, Nebraska.

Trudell died of cancer in Santa Clara County, California, aged 69.

[[Ron Bouchard]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in Massachusetts, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Massachusetts

Ron Bouchard (November 23, 1948spaced ndashDecember 10, 2015) was an American NASCAR driver. He was the 1981 NASCAR Winston Cup Rookie of the Year. He was born in Fitchburg, Massachusetts. Bouchard began his NASCAR career in 1981 in the #47 J.D. Stacy Buick for owner Jack Beebe (Race Hill Farm team). In 1982 Bouchard finished a career-high eighth in the final points standing with 15 Top 10 finishes in 30 races. He ran full-time in 1983, 1984, and 1985.

Bouchard died of cancer in Fitchburg, Massachusetts at the age of 67.

[[Murder of Laquan McDonald]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in Illinois, 2010s in Chicago, 2010s murders in the United States, Murder in 2014, Murders by firearm in the United States, October 2014 events, People shot dead by law enforcement officers in the United States, Black Lives Matter

The shooting of Laquan McDonald occurred on October 20, 2014, in Chicago, Illinois, when McDonald—a 17-year-old black male armed with a knife—was shot 16 times by Chicago Police Officer Jason Van Dyke.

As a result, mayor Rahm Emanuel fired Chicago police superintendent Garry McCarthy on December 1, 2015. Few days later, Emanuel apologized for the shooting, but since then, Emanuel has received criticisms and negative comments towards him and his administration.

Video of the shooting, captured on one police cruiser's dashboard camera, was released to the public on November 24, 2015, over 13 months after the shooting. Van Dyke was charged with first-degree murder within hours after the video's release. After turning himself in to authorities, he was initially ordered held without bail at Cook County Jail,  but released on November 30  after posting bail.

On November 25, Senator and presidential candidate Bernie Sanders released a statement sending condolences to McDonald's family and criticizing the Emanuel administration and the Chicago's police force.

There have been numerous protests denouncing Laquan McDonald's death. In November 27, a major day for shopping in the U.S., a group of protesters chanted "sixteen shots" and other slogans while marching on Michigan Avenue, the city's central shopping district. This caused some businesses to shut their doors and the police closed Michigan Avenue, a six-lane street.

The FBI opened an investigation into McDonald's death, and the city of Chicago approved a five-million dollar settlement in April 2015, although no lawsuit was filed. The police had originally claimed that McDonald had lunged at an officer. However, video footage contradicts that claim; McDonald made no lunges.

On October 5, 2018, Van Dyke was found guilty of second-degree murder, as well as 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm.

[[Dolph Schayes]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Cancer deaths in New York, National Basketball Association coaches, People from the Bronx, Philadelphia 76ers players, Sportspeople from New York City, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

Adolph "Dolph" Schayes (May 19, 1928 – December 10, 2015) was an American professional basketball player and coach in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He was a top scorer and rebounder, he was a 12-time NBA All-Star and a 12-time All-NBA selection. Schayes won an NBA championship with the Syracuse Nationals in 1955.

He was named one of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History and inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. He played for the Philadelphia 76ers from 1948 through 1964. He coached the Philadelphia 76ers from 1963 through 1966 and the Buffalo Braves from 1970 through 1972. He was born in The Bronx, New York City.

Schayes died in Syracuse, New York from cancer, aged 87.

[[SS Daniel J. Morrell]]

CATEGORIES: Ships

SS ''Daniel J. Morrell was an American Great Lakes ore carrier. It was 603 feet long. The ship usually carried iron ore. The Morrell'' sank during a severe storm on November 29, 1966. The ship broke in two before sinking.

Twenty-eight of the Morrell's 29 crewmen died during the sinking. Only one crewman survived.

[[Jon Landau]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American Jews, Movie producers from New York City

Jon Landau (born July 23, 1960) is an American movie producer. He is best known for his work with James Cameron: Titanic (1997), Solaris (2002) and Avatar (2009). He also produced Campus Man (1987), Honey, I Shrunk The Kids (1989), Dick Tracy (1990) and Alita: Battle Angel (2018).

Landau was born in New York City, New York. He was the son of Edie, a producer, and Ely A. Landau, a studio executive and producer. He is Jewish.

[[Mikael Agricola]]

CATEGORIES: 1510 births, 1557 deaths, Bible translators, Christian theologians, Christian writers, Finnish scientists, Finnish writers, Former Roman Catholics, Lutheran bishops, Protestant Reformers, Roman Catholic bishops, Roman Catholic priests

Mikael Agricola (ˈmikɑel ˈɑɡrikolɑ Fi-Mikael_Agricola.ogg) (c. 1510 – 9 April 1557) was a priest who is often called the "father of written Finnish".  In addition, Agricola, Aleksis Kivi and Elias Lönnrot are regarded fathers of a national literature in Finnish.

In his time, Finland was part of Sweden, a Catholic country. He learned the ideas of the Reformation, and thought everyone should be able to read the Bible. To help people in Finland to learn to read, Agricola published a ABC book and a prayer book in Finnish around year 1544. He also translated large sections of the Bible into Finnish.

[[TOP 09]]

CATEGORIES: Conservative parties, Czech Republic

TOP 09 is a political party in the Czech Republic. It is a right-wing, conservative party. The chairman of the party is former finance minister Miroslav Kalousek and the honorary chairman is former foreign minister Karel Schwarzenberg. TOP 09 have 26 members in the Chamber of Deputies and 4 members in the European parliament. The party's policies are based on conservatism and pro-Europeanism.

[[Miroslav Kalousek]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Czech politicians

Miroslav Kalousek (born 16 December 1960) is a Czech politician, former Finance minister, leader of TOP 09 party, and member of Chamber of Deputies.

[[Avon, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Indiana

Avon is a town in the state of Indiana, in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 12,446.

[[Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Czech Republic, Parliaments

The Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic (Poslanecká sněmovna Parlamentu České republiky) is the lower house of parliament of the Czech Republic. It has 200 members. They are elected by the people. They serve for 4 years. The current parliament was elected in 2013.

[[Phillips curve]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

The Phillips Curve shows the relationship between unemployment and wage inflation in an economy. It shows that as unemployment goes down, wages go up. It was discovered by British economist William Phillips. He studied wage inflation and unemployment in the United Kingdom from 1861 to 1957. The theory states that economic growth causes inflation. This causes more jobs to become available which lowers unemployment. In the 1970s high levels of inflation and unemployment were occurring at the same time. This disproved the theory, at least in the long run. Many economists feel that the Phillips curve still has value in the short run where there is still a tradeoff between inflation and unemployment. 

[[Momoko Kōchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 1998 deaths, Actors from Tokyo, Japanese movie actors

Momoko Kōchi (born Momoko Okouchi March 7, 1932 - November 5, 1998) was a Japanese actress. She is best known for her roles in the original  Godzilla, playing the character of Emiko Yamane. Kōchi later played the same role in Godzilla vs. Destoroyah in 1995. She starred in The Mysterians, playing Hiroko Iwamoto. 

Kōchi was discovered in 1953 in Toho's New Face Contest. By the late 1950s she found herself typecast into science fiction and horror movies. She decided to pursue formal acting. In the 1960s she was on stage doing Shakespeare. She also did occasional television commercials. She didn't act in movies again until 1995. Kōchi died at age 66 in Tokyo Japan on November 5, 1998 from intestinal cancer.   

[[European perch]]

CATEGORIES: Perciformes, Edible fish

The European perch (Perca fluviatilis), also known as the common perch, redfin perch, big-scaled redfin, English perch, Eurasian perch, Eurasian river perch, Hatch or in Anglophone parts of Europe, simply the perch, is a type of fish. It belongs in genus Perch and lives in Europe and Siberia. It is typically less than 25 cm long. It has greenish basic colour with 5-9 black bands, and red fins.

European perch lives in water  which contains no salt or very little salt. It can be found in lakes, rivers, ponds and areas where sea water mixes with river water such as the Baltic Sea. 

European perch eats small animals in the water, such as insects, worms and small fish. It is most hungry early in the morning and late in the evening. 

European perch tastes good and fishermen like to catch it.

[[Jiří Paďour]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, Czech people, Roman Catholic archbishops

Jiří Paďour (4 April 1943 – 11 December 2015) was a Czech Auxiliary Bishop in the Archdiocese of Prague from 1996 to 2001, and the Bishop of České Budějovice from 2002–2014. Pad'our was born in Vraclav, Czechoslovakia.

On 1 March 2014, Pope Francis accepted Paďour's resignation for health reasons. Pad'our died in Prachatice, Czech Republic at the age of 72.

[[Douglas Tompkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from Ohio

Douglas Rainsford "Doug" Tompkins (March 20, 1943 – December 8, 2015) was an American conservationist, outdoorsman, philanthropist, filmmaker, agriculturalist, and businessman. He was born in Conneaut, Ohio. He co-founded and ran two companies: the outdoor equipment and clothing company The North Face and the Esprit clothing company.

On December 8, 2015, Tompkins was kayaking with five others on General Carrera Lake in southern Chile when strong waves caused their kayaks to capsize. Tompkins spent a "considerable amount of time" in waters under 40. He was flown via helicopter to a hospital in nearby Coyhaique, where he died from severe hypothermia. He was 72 years old and was survived by his wife, two daughters, mother and brother.

[[Shipwreck]]

CATEGORIES: Ships

A shipwreck is the remains of a ship that has been wrecked. Shipwrecks are found either beached on land or sunken to the seabed of a body of water. They may be deliberate or accidental. UNESCO estimates that worldwide over 3 million shipwrecks. Some are thousands of years old.

[[Eddy current]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

An eddy current can be made when you have a solenoid (coil of wire), in which there is a soft iron core. When you connect the solenoid to an AC power source, metal objects held above the cross sectional area of the solenoid are repelled due to Lenz's Law.

[[Analytic philosophy]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

Analytical philospohy is a branch of philosophy that was important in the 20th century. Analytical philosophy focuses on the philosophy of language and on argumentation Important thinkers of this movement include Gottlob Frege,  Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein and Willard Van Orman Quine.

[[Johan Ludvig Runeberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1804 births, 1877 deaths, Finnish poets, Songwriters

Johan Ludvig Runeberg (ˈjuːhan ˈlʊdvɪɡ ˈrʉːnəbærj; 5 February 1804 – 6 May 1877) was a poet from Finland. He is the national poet of Finland. He wrote in the Swedish language.

Runeberg's most famous work is Fänrik Ståls sägner (The Tales of Ensign Stål, Vänrikki Stoolin tarinat in Finnish). He wrote it between 1848 and 1860. The book consists of 36 poems. The tales are about Finnish War of 1808–09. In the war  Russia got Finland from Sweden. In the tales Runeberg tries to tell us that deep down inside people are similar on both sides of the war. In that book, small people from Finland become heroes in their own life.  The first poem "Vårt land" (Our Land, Maamme in Finnish) became the Finnish National anthem.

[[George S. Irving]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winning actors, 1922 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Massachusetts, People from Springfield, Massachusetts

George S. Irving (George Irving Shelasky; November 1, 1922 – December 26, 2016) was an American actor. He was known for his character roles on Broadway. He voiced the Heat Miser in The Year Without a Santa Claus (1974) and in A Miser Brothers' Christmas (2008). Irving recorded the audio version of Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark. He also appeared on stage in Oklahoma! and on television in All in the Family. He won a Tony Award in 1973.

[[Edmund Lyndeck]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New Jersey, People from Bayonne, New Jersey

Edmund Lyndeck (October 4, 1925 – December 14, 2015) was an American character actor and musical theatre actor. He began his career in 1970 when he appeared in The Ed Sullivan Show. He appeared on stage as Ebenezer Scrooge in A Christmas Carol.  He also appeared in the stage production of Into the Woods. 

Lyndeck appeared in guest appearances on Ed, The Cosby Show, and Law & Order: Special Victims Unit.

[[Bayonne, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Jersey

Bayonne (pronounced bay-OWN) is a city in Hudson County, New Jersey, United States. Bayonne is east of Newark, the state's largest city, north of Elizabeth in Union County and west of Brooklyn. As of 2010, the population was 63,024.

[[H. Arnold Steinberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, Canadian businesspeople, Canadian Jews, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Harvard University alumni, Jewish businesspeople, Jewish philanthropists, People from Montreal

H. Arnold Steinberg (May 12, 1933 – December 11, 2015) was a Canadian businessman and philanthropist of Jewish descent. He was the Chancellor of McGill University serving from 2009 through 2014.

He studied at McGill University and Harvard University.

In 1957, he started working at Dominion Securities Corp. Ltd. before joining Steinberg Inc. in 1958. He would remain at the company until 1989 and was Chief Financial Officer.

Steinberg died suddenly in Montreal, Quebec from a heart attack on December 11, 2015 at the age of 82.

[[Metropolitan Community Church]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations based in the United States, Protestantism, Christianity in the United States, Los Angeles

The Metropolitan Community Church (MCC) is an international Protestant Christian denomination. It is based in Los Angeles, California. It has 222 member congregations in 37 countries. It has a specific outreach to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender families and communities. The MCC has property worth $50 million. It has 40,000 members. They want to double in size in the next ten years. They also want acceptance by other Christian organizations. The MCC currently has "Official Observer" status with the World Council of Churches. MCC supports same-sex marriage. The MCC has been denied membership in the US National Council of Churches. Many local MCC congregations are members of local ecumenical partnerships around the world. MCC also belongs to several statewide councils of churches in the United States.

[[Deschooling]]

CATEGORIES: Education

Deschooling is a word that was first used by Ivan Illich (Austrian philosopher, 1926–2002). Many homeschoolers use the word to describe the process that children go through when they left the school system to start homeschooling. It is an important process for homeschooling, in which children should prepare for their first homeschool days. Some children need more time to go through it than others. Families do this normally because many things in homechooling are different from the public school system.

[[Unschooling]]

CATEGORIES: Education

Unschooling is a special form of homeschooling. In this form of education, learners choose activities as their medium for learning. It is not as known as traditional homeschooling, but is becoming more known.

[[John Bannon]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2015 deaths, Australian Labor Party politicians, Cancer deaths in Australia, People from Adelaide, Politicians from South Australia, Politicians from Melbourne, Premiers of South Australia

John Charles Bannon AO (7 May 1943 – 13 December 2015) was an Australian politician for the Labor Party. He was the 39th Premier of South Australia from 10 November 1982 until 4 September 1992. He was born in Bendigo, Victoria and grew up in Adelaide, South Australia.

Bannon died from cancer on 13 December 2015 in Adelaide, aged 72.

[[Abu Ali al-Anbari]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 deaths, Deaths by airstrike, Iraqi military people, Iraqi politicians

Abu Ali al-Anbari (أبو علي الأنباري; born 1957/1959 - died 12 December 2015) was an Iraqi government official. He was the nom de guerre for the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) governor for territories held by the organization in Syria. He was thought to be the second-in-command (along with his counterpart Abu Muslim al-Turkmani (KIA) who held a similar position in Iraq). 

[[Benedict Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American educators, Writers from California

Benedict Richard O'Gorman Anderson  (August 26, 1936 – December 13, 2015) was an American academic and writer. He was the Aaron L. Binenkorb Professor Emeritus of International Studies, Government & Asian Studies at Cornell University. He was best known for his book Imagined Communities, first published in 1983. 

[[Juan Ponce de León]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish explorers, History of Florida

Juan Ponce de León (1460-1521) was a Spanish nobleman, explorer and colonial governor. Looking for gold and a rumored "Fountain of Youth, he landed on the southeast coast of North America near present-day St. Augustine, Florida. He claimed the lands for Spain and named it La Florida (place of flowers). In 1521, on his second trip to Florida, he was wounded in an attack. The expedition returned to Cuba where he died in July 1521 from his wound.

[[Rowan University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in New Jersey, 1923 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in New Jersey

Rowan University is a public university in Glassboro, New Jersey, United States.  The school also has a campus in Camden, New Jersey. The school opened in 1923 as Glassboro Normal School on a twenty-five acre site donated by the town. The school became New Jersey State Teachers College at Glassboro in the 1930s.  Then it became Glassboro State College in 1958. Starting in the 1970s, it added programs in business, communications, and engineering.

It was renamed Rowan College of New Jersey in 1992, after Henry Rowan and his wife Betty gave the school $100 million.  At the time, the gift was largest ever given to a public college. It became Rowan University on March 21, 1997, when it won approval for university status from the New Jersey Commission on Higher Education. In the fall of 2012, Cooper Medical School of Rowan University opened in Camden.  It was the first public medical school in New Jersey not associated with the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. It later took over the School of Osteopathic Medicine on July 1, 2013.  It became the second university in the United States to offer both an M.D. and a D.O. program.

[[Training corset]]

CATEGORIES: Underwear

A training corset is a corset used for doing body modification (changing the body). It may be used for orthopedic reasons (such as to correct a crooked spine) or for cosmetic reasons (to achieve a smaller waistline which is commonly called waist training).

The term "training corset" is also sometimes used for BDSM corsets used for discipline.

[[Coccinella septempunctata]]

CATEGORIES: Polyphaga

The seven-spot ladybird (Coccinella septempunctata) is a colourful beetle. It has red back (wing cases) with seven black spots, black and white head, legs and stomach. As an adult it is 5-8 mm long.

Coccinella septempunctata is the most common lady beetle in Europe. Because it eats harmful insects, people have imported it to North America.

Ladybirds are members of the family Cucujiformia.

[[Whooper swan]]

CATEGORIES: Anatidae, Birds of Europe

The whooper swan (Cygnus cygnus), is a large white bird which lives in Europe and Asia. It is the Eurasian counterpart of the North American trumpeter swan. Francis Willughby and John Ray's Ornithology of 1676 referred to the this swan as "the Elk, Hooper, or wild Swan".

[[Roland D-50]]

CATEGORIES: Musical instruments

The Roland D-50 is a linear/polyphonic 61-key synthesizer made by Roland. It was released in 1987.  Its features include Linear Arithmetic synthesis, on-board effects, a joystick for data manipulation, and an analog synthesis-styled keyboard layout.  The external Roland PG-1000 programmer could also be attached to the D-50 for more complex manipulation of sounds. It was also produced in a rack-mount version. This was called the D-550 and had almost 450 user-adjustable parameters.

[[Dexter Gordon]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1990 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Deaths from laryngeal cancer, American jazz musicians, American saxophonists, Musicians from Los Angeles, California

Dexter Gordon (February 27, 1923 – April 25, 1990) was an American jazz tenor saxophonist. He was born in Los Angeles, California. He was also known as "Long Tall Dexter" and "Sophisticated Giant". Gordon's career lasted for over 40 years. He was among the earliest tenor players to adapt the bebop musical language.

Gordon died in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania from renal failure and laryngeal cancer at the age of 67.

[[Vadym Tyshchenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Ukrainian football managers, Medalists at the 1988 Summer Olympics, Soviet Olympic gold medalists, Ukrainian footballers

Vadym Tyshchenko or Vadim Nikolayevich Tishchenko (24 March 1963 – 14 December 2015) was a Soviet and Ukrainian association football player and coach.

Tyshchenko made his debut for USSR on 29 August 1987 in a friendly game against Yugoslavia. He played in UEFA Euro 1988, but was not selected for the squad for that tournament or for the 1990 FIFA World Cup.

Tyshchenko died in Kiev, Ukraine from a heart attack at the age of 52.

[[George Tiller]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2009 deaths, Murders by firearm in the United States, American murder victims, American physicians, American activists, Scientists from Wichita, Kansas

George Richard Tiller, MD (August 8, 1941 – May 31, 2009) was an American physician. He was from Wichita, Kansas. He became well-known as the medical director of Women's Health Care Services, one of only three clinics nationwide to provide late-term abortions at the time.

During his tenure with the center, which began in 1975 and continued the medical practice of his father, Tiller was targeted with protest and violence by anti-abortion groups and individuals. After his clinic was firebombed in 1986, Tiller was shot in both arms by anti-abortion extremist Shelley Shannon in 1993.

On May 31, 2009, Tiller was fatally shot in the side of the head by anti-abortion extremist Scott Roeder, as Tiller served as an usher during the Sunday morning service at his church in Wichita. Roeder was convicted of murder on January 29, 2010, and sentenced to life imprisonment.

[[Krampus (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 horror movies, 2015 comedy movies, 2010s fantasy movies, American comedy movies, American fantasy movies, American horror movies, English-language movies

Krampus is a 2015 American fantasy comedy horror movie based on Krampus from Alpine folklore. It was directed by Michael Dougherty and written by Dougherty, Todd Casey, and Zach Shields.

The movie stars Adam Scott, Toni Collette, David Koechner, Allison Tolman, Conchata Ferrell, Emjay Anthony, Stefania LaVie Owen, and Krista Stadler. It was released on December 4, 2015, by Universal Pictures to mixed reviews.

[[Adam Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, American poets, American dancers, Actors from California, Movie directors from California, Movie producers from California, Writers from California, Comedians from California

Adam Paul Scott (born April 3, 1973) is an American actor, comedian, director, screenwriter, producer, podcaster, dancer, and poet. He is best known for his role as Ben Wyatt in the NBC sitcom Parks and Recreation. He has also appeared as Derek in the movie Step Brothers, and Henry Pollard in the Starz sitcom Party Down.

[[Keith Ellison]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, African American politicians, American Muslims, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, United States representatives from Minnesota

Keith Maurice Ellison (born August 4, 1963) is an American politician. He is the Attorney General of Minnesota. He is a member of the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party (DFL), the Minnesota state Democratic Party affiliate.

He was the U.S. Representative for MN from 2007 to 2019. Ellison is a co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus and a Chief Deputy Whip, also notably serving in the House Committee on Financial Services.

Ellison is the first Muslim to be elected to Congress. He is also the first African American elected to the House from Minnesota.

In November 2016, progressive groups and United States senators, including Bernie Sanders of Vermont, supported Ellison for chair of the Democratic National Committee. On February 25, 2017, minutes after defeating him on a second ballot, Chairman Tom Perez motioned for Ellison to be elected his Deputy Chair which was approved by a unanimous voice vote of DNC members.

On June 5, 2018, Ellison announced that he was running for Attorney General of Minnesota and not seeking reelection to Congress. He won the election in November 2018.

[[Vitus Bering]]

CATEGORIES: 1681 births, 1741 deaths, Danish people, Explorers

Vitus Jonassen Bering (1681 - 1741), also called Ivan Ivanovich Bering (Russian name) was a Danish seafarer and explorer. He went into the service of the Russian navy in 1704. He was commissioned a second lieutenant. During the Great Northern War he distinguished himself and was promoted to the rank of commander.

[[Ritornello]]

CATEGORIES: Musical forms

Ritornello is an Italian word meaning "little return". At first in music ritornello was used as an instruction to repeat a part. By the 1600's the word was used to describe a part of the music played by instruments in a vocal piece. These instrumental sections could be at the start (a prelude), in the middle (an interlude), or at the end (a postlude). In dramatic music, the ritornello provided an opportunity for dancing, or for a scene change. In the Baroque period, a common way to write a song, called an aria, was in da capo form. The aria would be written as two contrasting sections, A and B. By adding an instrumental ritornello (R), the aria could be developed further, forming the scheme R–A–R–B–R–A–R.

In the early 1700's composers began using the ritornello form in concertos, the solo instrument replacing the voice. This gave the composer the chance to develop music during the solos with new material and key changes, between repeated sections of full orchestra. Guiseppe Torelli began using this form, which was then developed and extended by Antonio Vivaldi. Vivaldi's way of using this form has the following features:

Later composers such as Bach and Telemann used Vivaldi's form in their works.

[[Dominant (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Music theory

The dominant in music is the fifth note of a major or minor scale. In a C scale, the fifth and dominant note will be G. Chords built on this note are called dominant chords. In the key of C, the dominant chord will be G-B-D. Keys have the same relationship as notes, so the dominant key will be the key of the fifth note. So in C, the key of G is the dominant key. In musical theory, the dominant is written with the roman numeral "V".

[[National Medal of Science]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals of the United States, Science awards, 1959 establishments in the United States

The National Medal of Science is an honor given by the President of the United States. It is awarded to people in science and engineering who did important work in  behavioral, social sciences, biology, chemistry, engineering, mathematics and physics.

[[Camcorder]]

CATEGORIES: Cameras

Camcorder are electronic devices which combines a video camera and a video recorder. Most devices capable of recording video are camera phones and digital cameras primarily intended for still pictures. The term "camcorder" is used to describe a portable, self-contained device, with video capture and recording as its primary function.

[[Marilyn Maxwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 1972 births, Actors from Iowa, American movie actors, American radio actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles County, California, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Marilyn Maxwell (August 3, 1921 – March 20, 1972) was an American actress and entertainer. She was a sex symbol in the 1940s and 1950s. She appeared in several movies and radio programs. She played Hazel Moon in Lost in a Harem (1944). She also played Grace Diamond in Champion (1949).

Maxwell was born in Clarinda, Iowa. She died from a heart attack at age 50.

[[Silver birch]]

CATEGORIES: Betulaceae, Trees

The silver birch (Betula pendula), also known as the warty birch, European white birch, or East Asian white birch, is a deciduous tree in the family Betulaceae. It grows in Europe, parts of Asia and North America.

The silver birch is a medium-sized  tree, which has triangle-shaped leaves. In autumn the leaves turn yellow and fall. Trunk is shining white.  The twigs are slender, and in an old tree the they often hang downwards.  The flowers are grouped in an inflorescence called a catkin. The wind spreads the birch seed. The trees are monoecious, with both male and female catkins on the same tree.

[[Eisaku Satō]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1975 deaths, Prime Ministers of Japan, Nobel Peace Prize winners, People from Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japanese Nobel Prize winners, University of Tokyo alumni

Eisaku Satō (27 March 1901 – 3 June 1975) was a Japanese politician and the 39th Prime Minister of Japan. He was first elected in December 1964. He was the first Prime Minister to have been born in the 20th century. Satō shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Seán MacBride in 1974. He received the award for representing the Japanese people's will for peace, and for signing the nuclear weapons Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1970.

Satō was born in Tabuse in Yamaguchi Prefecture. He suffered a stroke on May 23, 1975 and had fallen into a deep coma. He died on 3 June 1975 a Tokyo hospital.

[[Emperor Toba]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan

Emperor Toba was the 74th emperor of Japan. Toba's reign spanned the years from 1107 through 1123. He became Emperor when he was 5 years old. He abdicated the throne when he was 20 years old. At this time the Emperors of Japan only filled a background role in politics. The elaborate court system of Insei was coming to an end as Japan had already turned to feudalism and Militarism.

[[Eddie Shore]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1985 deaths, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Ice hockey defencemen

Eddie Shore (November 25, 1902 – March 16, 1985) was a Canadian professional hockey player known for playing defense for the Boston Bruins. He was born in Fort Qu'Appelle, Canada.

Shore played for the Melville Millionaires, Regina Capitals, Edmonton Eskimos, New York Americans, Boston Bruins, Springfeild Indians and the Buffalo Bisons.

[[Armando Cossutta]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Communist politicians, Deaths from bronchopneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Former MEPs, MEPs for Italy, People from Milan, Politicians from Lombardy

Armando Cossutta (2 September 1926 – 14 December 2015) was an Italian communist politician. After World War II, he became one of the leading members of the party, representing the most pro-Soviet Union tendency. Cossutta was president of the Party of Italian Communists, and Member of Parliament. He also served as Member of the European Parliament during the 5th European term (1999-2004). In 1999, Cossutta appeared on a list of alleged Italian KGB spies. Cossutta has not been convicted.

Cossutta died on 14 December 2015 in Rome, Italy from bronchopneumonia, aged 89.

[[Evelyn S. Lieberman]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Washington, D.C., Civil servants, Politicians from Brooklyn, US Democratic Party politicians

Evelyn May Simonowitz Lieberman (July 9, 1944 – December 12, 2015) was an American public affairs professional. During the Bill Clinton administration, she became the first woman to serve as White House Deputy Chief of Staff serving for a few months in 1996. 

She was the first United States Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs. From 2002 until her death, Lieberman worked for the Smithsonian Institution, most recently as Senior Advisor and Assistant to the Secretary for external relations.

Lieberman died of pancreatic cancer in Washington, D.C., aged 71.

[[Jansila Majeed]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century births, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Activists, Sri Lankan people, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Jansila Majeed is an activist in the Puttalam District of Sri Lanka. In 2010, she received an International Women of Courage Award from the U.S. Department of State.

[[Marie Claude Naddaf]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Activists, Nuns, Syrian Christians, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Marie Claude Naddaf (Arabic: ماري كلود نداف ) is an activist and a nun from Syria.  In 2010, she received an International Women of Courage Award. 

[[Perry Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, English historians, People educated at Eton College, Writers from London

Perry R. Anderson (born September 1938 in London, England) is a British historian and political essayist. He is a specialist in intellectual history such as the post-1956 Western Marxism of the New Left.

Anderson was educated at Eton College and Worcester College, Oxford.

He is Professor of History and Sociology at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and a former editor of the New Left Review. Anderson has written several books, the latest being The Indian Ideology (2012), a polemic against the Indian nation-building project. He is the brother of political scientist Benedict Anderson.

[[Lillian Vernon]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, American chief executives, American Jews, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from New York City, Deaths from congestive heart failure, German Jews, Jewish businesspeople, Jewish philanthropists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Leipzig, Refugees from Nazism, Writers from New York City

Lillian Vernon (born Lilli Menasche; March 18, 1927 – December 14, 2015) was an American businesswoman, entrepreneur, and philanthropist. She founded the Lillian Vernon Corporation in 1951 and served as its chairman and CEO until July 1989, though she continued to serve as executive chairman until 2003.

[[Jestina Mukoko]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Zimbabwean people, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Journalists, Human rights activists

Jestina Mukoko is a human rights activist and journalist from Zimbabwe.  In 2010, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Ananda Prasad Pokharel]]

CATEGORIES: Nepalese politicians

Ananda Prasad Pokharel is a Nepali politician. He is currently the Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation in Nepal. He is also a member of Napal's Investment Board.

[[UNOVIS]]

CATEGORIES: Russian artists

UNOVIS was an important group of Russian artists. It was taken over by Kazimir Malevich at the Vitebsk Art School in 1919. It started of with a group of students and was called MOLPOSNOVIS. The group developed new idea about art. Once Malevich became the leader they changed their name to UNOVIS. The group only lasted until 1926.

UNOVIS stood for "Utverditeli Novovo Iskusstva" which is Russian. In English it meant "affirmers of the new art".

[[Zakho]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iraq, Kurdistan

Zaxo is a city in Iraqi Kurdistan. It has about 350,000 inhabitants. It is in the Dahuk Province. There is a university in Zaxo. The biggest soccer club is Zakho FC.

[[Duhok]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iraq, Kurdistan

Duhok is a city in Iraqi Kurdistan. The city is the capital of Dahuk Province and has a population of 500,000. There is a university in Duhok. The soccer club is Duhok SC.

[[Ethiopian calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Ethiopia, Calendars

The Ethiopian calendar is the main calendar used in Ethiopia. It serves as the liturgical calendar for Christians in Eritrea and Ethiopia belonging to the Orthodox Tewahedo churches, Eastern Catholic Church and Coptic Orthodox Church. It is a solar calendar which comes from the Egyptian calendar. But like the Julian calendar, it adds a leap day every four years. It begins the year on August 29 or August 30 in the Julian calendar.  A seven to eight-year gap between the Ethiopian and Gregorian calendars results from an alternate calculation in determining the date of the annunciation of Jesus.

[[East of England Ambulance Service]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 establishments in England, England, Emergency services

The East of England Ambulance Service NHS Trust (EEAST) is the company that provides ambulance services in the counties of Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire, Essex, Hertfordshire, Norfolk and Suffolk, in the East of England. The service is free, which means people who are hurt do not have to pay money to be driven to a hospital. Under the Patient's Charter every person in the United Kingdom is allowed to use an ambulance if there is an emergency.

The East England Ambulance Service do not only drive people to hospitals, they also help heal people who are injured and are too far from a hospital.

[[Geastrum quadrifidum]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi

Geastrum quadrifidum or the rayed earthstar, or four-footed earthstar, is an inedible species of mushroom. It is a species of  Geastrum, or earthstar fungi. It was first described scientifically by Christian Hendrik Persoon in 1794. It is found in Europe, the Americas, Africa, Asia, and Australasia. The fungus is a saprobe. It feeds on dead wood and plant materials.

[[Physical dependence]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

Physical dependence is a term used in medicine: If a drug is taken regularly, a certain level of tolerance may have developed. Abruptly stopping to use the drug will cause drug withdrawal symptoms. If the drug has been taken for a longer period of time, or the dosage was higher, the withdrawal symptoms will be more severe. Well known drugs with withdrawal symptoms include opioids, alcohol, and may of the drugs knownn as neuroleptics.

[[Gabre Gabric]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2015 deaths, 1936 Summer Olympics, 1948 Summer Olympics, Croatian sportspeople, Italian athletes, Italian centenarians, Italian Olympians

Ljubica "Gabre" Gabric (17 October 1914 – 16 December 2015) was a Croatian-born Italian track and field athlete. She competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics and in the 1948 Summer Olympics. Her best discus throw was 43.35 m (1939). 

She was the widow of Sandro Calvesi, mother-in-law of Eddy Ottoz and the grandmother of Laurent Ottoz and Patrick Ottoz.

[[Licio Gelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Freemasons, Italian esotericists, Italian politicians, Italian writers, People from Tuscany

Licio Gelli (ˈlitʃo ˈdʒɛlli; April 21, 1919 – December 15, 2015) was an Italian financier, politician, and writer. He was known for his role in the Banco Ambrosiano scandal. He was revealed in 1981 as being the Venerable Master of the clandestine lodge Propaganda Due (P2).

[[John Cabot]]

CATEGORIES: 1450 births, 1490s deaths, Italian explorers

John  Cabot (Giovanni Caboto, (1450 – 1499) was an Italian navigator and explorer. In 1497, sailing westward from England in his ship Matthew, he landed in what he thought was Asia. In fact he came to North America, in what is now eastern Canada, which he claimed for King Henry VII. he landed in what is now known as Bonavista, Newfoundland. A town in the most eastern province of Canada. He died in England in 1499.

[[Euler-Bernoulli Beam Theory]]

CATEGORIES: Elasticity (physics), Equations, Engineering

Euler–Bernoulli beam theory (also known as engineer's beam theory or classical beam theory) is a simple method to calculate bending of beams when a load is applied. This applies to  small deflections (how far something moves) of a beam without considering effects of shear deformations. Therefore, it can be considered a special case of the Timoshenko beam theory. It was first introduced around 1750. It gained popularity during the development of the Eiffel Tower and the Ferris wheel in the late 19th century. After that, it was used in many engineering fields including mechanical engineering and civil engineering. Although other advanced methods have been developed, the Euler-Bernoulli beam theory is still widely used because of its simplicity. 

[[Shameful Secrets]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 movies, 1990s drama movies, American drama movies, American television movies, Movies about domestic violence

Shameful Secrets, also known as Going Underground, is an American television movie. It was aired on ABC on October 10, 1993. It is about a child custody battle between Maryanne Walker-Tate (played by Joanna Kerns) and her abusive husband Daniel Tate (played by Tim Matheson).

[[William Ruto]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians, 1966 births, People from Nairobi

William Samoei arap Ruto (born 21 December 1966) is a Kenyan politician. He has been Deputy President of Kenya since 2013. Ruto served as the Acting President of Kenya between 5 and 8 October 2014 while President Uhuru Kenyatta was away at the Hague. He previously served in various ministerial positions including the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Higher Education. He was Secretary General of KANU, the former ruling political party. Ruto was a member of Parliament for Eldoret North Constituency between December 1997 and January 2013. He won the seat in the 1997 Kenyan election after defeating Reuben Chesire. 

Ruto has been charged with crimes including murder by the International Criminal Court. The trial has been ongoing since 10 September 2013. The charges against him were dropped in 2016 due to lack of evidence by Fatou Bensouda. 

[[Willamette Valley]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Oregon, Valleys of the United States

The Willamette Valley (w) is a 150 long valley in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States.  The entire valley is in the state of Oregon. The valley contains the political and cultural areas of Oregon.  It is home to about 70 percent of its population.  This includes Portland, its largest city, and  Salem, the state capital. The Willamette River flows the entire length of the valley.  The valley is surrounded by mountains on three sides - the Oregon Coast Range to the west, the Cascade Range to the east, and the Calapooya Mountains to the south. 

The valley's many waterways are important to the economy of Oregon.  They continuously put highly fertile alluvial soils on the valley's broad, flat plain. The valley was widely publicized in the 1820s as a 'promised land of flowing milk and honey'. Throughout the 19th century it was the destination for the oxen-drawn wagon trains of people on the Oregon Trail.

Today the valley is home to "Oregon Wine Country". Tt contains more than 19,000 acres of vineyards and 500+ wineries.

[[Indian softshell turtle]]

CATEGORIES: Turtles, National symbols of Bangladesh

The Indian softshell turtle (Nilssonia gangetica), or Ganges softshell turtle is a species of softshell turtle. It lives in rivers such as the Ganges and Mahanadi in India and Bangladesh. Its shell can be up to 94 in length. It feeds mostly on fish, amphibians, carrion and other animal matter, but also eats aquatic plants. The turtle is listed as a vulnerable species.

The turtle has a long neck and a long nose, which means it is able to easily keep the tip of the nose out of the water to breathe. It has an oval shaped shell, which is also fairly flat and smooth which means it is able to swim very fast.

These turtles are often kept in the temple ponds of Odisha where they are considered sacred.

The Indian softshell turtle is under threat as 30 to 40 tons of turtle meat is sold in markets every week. The shells are also used to make masks, which are sold to tourists. The turtles' habitat is also being changed by the building of dams, drainage works, and increasing levels of fishing and farming.

[[Marine Le Pen]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, French Roman Catholics, French lawyers, MEPs for France, National Front (France) politicians, Leaders of political parties, Politicians from Ile-de-France, Women lawyers

Marine Le Pen (ma.ʁin lə.pɛn; born Marion Anne Perrine Le Pen; 5 August 1968) is a French politician. She was the leader of the National Front (FN) political party from 2011 until her resignation in 2017. She is a lawyer. She is the youngest daughter of Jean-Marie Le Pen, who was leader of FN for many years. She is the aunt of Marion Maréchal-Le Pen.

Le Pen unsuccessfully ran for President of France in the 2017 election, losing to Emmanuel Macron in the second round. She is running again in the 2022 election.

[[Akseli Gallen-Kallela]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 births, 1931 deaths, Finnish artists

Akseli Gallen-Kallela (26 April 1865 – 7 March 1931) was an artist from Finland. He started his career with realistic pictures of poor people from the countryside, and continued with romantic paintings of the themes of the Kalevala, the Finnish national epic. His work was considered very important for the Finnish national identity. He pioneered major changes in Finnish art. 

In addition to paintings Gallen-Kallela made prints, frescoes and designed textiles and furniture. His house and studio Kalela became a work of total art.

When Finland became independent, Gallen-Kallela designed uniforms and medals for its army.

[[Root hair]]

CATEGORIES: Plant anatomy

A root hair of a vascular plant, is a tubular outgrowth of a hair-forming cell on the epidermis of a plant root.

They are lateral extensions of a single cell, and invisible to the naked eye and light microscope. The function of root hairs is to collect water and mineral nutrients from the soil. This solution goes up through the roots to the rest of the plant.

Root hair cells survive for 2 to 3 weeks and then die off. New root hair cells are continually being formed at the tip of the root. This way, the root hair coverage stays the same.

[[Tenualosa ilisha]]

CATEGORIES: Fish, Clupeiformes, National symbols of Bangladesh

Tenualosa ilisha (ilish, hilsa, hilsa herring or hilsa shad) is a species of fish in the  Clupeidae (herring) family. 

It is a popular food dish in South India, East India and in the People's Republic of Bangladesh. The fish contributes about 12% of the total fish production and about 1% of GDP (money earned) in Bangladesh. About 450,000 people are directly involved with catching it for a living. About four to five million people are involved in the trade.

It is also the National fish of Bangladesh. Other names include: palla fish, hilsha, ellis, ilish, (Bengali:ইলিশ): ilish, (Oriya:ଇଲିଶି): ilishii, Sindhī: پلو مڇي pallu machhi, (Telugu:పులస): pulasa or polasa.

[[Meyerasaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Plesiosaurs

Meyerasaurus is an extinct genus of plesiosaur. An almost complete fossil was found in Holzmaden, Baden-Württemberg, southeastern Germany. It was a medium-sized,  3.35 m (11.0 ft) long, pliosaur.

The specimen was collected from shale over 150 years ago. The shale dates to the early Jurassic, about 183–180 million years ago (mya). The specimen was described as a species of Plesiosaurus a hundred years ago. It got its new name in 2010.

Most members of its family, the Rhomaleosauridae, have been found in England. They were found in the lower Blue Lias deposits which date to the earliest Jurassic, just above the boundary with the Triassic.

[[Diatonic scale]]

CATEGORIES: Music theory

The diatonic scale is one of the scales used in music. It is also called heptatonic scale, because it uses seven distinct pitch classes or tones. For each octave there are five whole steps and two half steps. The two half steps are separated by two or three whole steps.  The word "diatonic" comes from the Greek διατονικός, meaning progressing through tones.

The seven pitches of any diatonic scale can be obtained using a chain of six perfect fifths. An example of this would be  the seven natural pitches which form the C-major scale. It can be constructed from a stack of perfect fifths starting from F:

This property of the diatonic scale is called Pythagorean tuning. It was historically relevant and contributed to the worldwide diffusion of diatonic scales, because it allowed musicians to tune musical instruments easily by ear.

Any sequence of seven successive natural notes, such as C-D-E-F-G-A-B, and all transpositions, are diatonic scales. Piano keyboards are designed to play natural notes, which are diatonic scales, with their white keys. A diatonic scale can be also described as two tetrachords separated by a whole tone.

The term diatonic originally referred to the diatonic genus, one of the three genera of the ancient Greeks. In musical set theory, Allen Forte classifies diatonic scales as set form 7–35.

The following scales are diatonic:

Examples of scales that are not diatonic are whole-tone scales, as well as the gypsy scales, which are often used for folk music.

[[Deepto TV]]

CATEGORIES: Television channels, 2015 establishments in Asia, 21st century establishments in Bangladesh

Deepto TV (দীপ্ত টিভি) is a private HD television channel in Bangladesh. The channel started broadcasting on 18 November 2015. The channel has daily drama serials. It also shows Bengali-dubbed foreign programs.

[[Vanessa Paradis]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, French actors, Child actors, Child singers, French models, French singers, French musicians

Vanessa Chantal Paradis (born 22 December 1972) is a French singer, model and actress.

She became a child star at age of 14 with the great worldwide success of her single "Joe le taxi". Since 1991, she has been a spokesmodel for Chanel. She was in a relationship with American actor Johnny Depp from 1998 to 2012, and they have two children: Lily-Rose and John "Jack" Christopher Depp III. She is also the older sister of Alysson Paradis, who is also an actress.

[[Database of Molecular Motions]]

CATEGORIES: Proteins, Databases

The Database of Macromolecular Motions is a bioinformatics computer database on the Internet. It attempts to divide motions of protein and some RNA biological molecules into different types.

[[Helge Solum Larsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2015 deaths, Norwegian politicians

Helge Solum Larsen (14 January 1969 – 18 December 2015) was a Norwegian businessman and politician. He was a member of the Liberal Party. He served as deputy leader of the party from 2010 to 2012.

From 1994 to 1997 he was leader of the Young Liberals of Norway, the youth wing of the Liberal Party. He served as a deputy representative to the Parliament of Norway from Rogaland during the terms 1997–2001 and 2005–2009.

Larsen died from a sudden illness on 18 December 2015, aged 46.

[[Buckshot Hoffner]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, Deaths from heart failure, Politicians from North Dakota, US Democratic Party politicians

Sebastian Fabian Hoffner, known by his nickname Buckshot Hoffner (January 20, 1924 – December 17, 2015), was an American politician. He was a member of the North Dakota House of Representatives and North Dakota State Senate for 18 years in total. 

He was born and raised in Esmond, North Dakota. He was a veteran of World War II. Hoffner served as a Democrat in three separate stints in the House of Representatives: from 1962 to 1966, 1968 to 1972 and 1983 to 1984 in addition to serving as the House's minority leader in the 1971 session. During his eight years in the Senate from 1972 to 1980, he was its minority leader from 1975 to 1980.

Hoffner died on December 17, 2015 in Bismarck, North Dakota from heart failure, aged 91.

[[Harry Zvi Tabor]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2015 deaths, British Jews, Israeli Jews, Israeli scientists, Jewish scientists, Naturalized citizens of Israel, British physicists, Scientists from London, Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni

Harry Zvi Tabor (7 March 1917 – 15 December 2015) was a British-born Israeli physicist. He was known as the father of Israeli solar energy.  Tabor was also involved in bringing Israel's solar energy program to international awareness.

Tabor was born in London. He died in Jerusalem on 15 December 2015 at the age of 98.

[[Hal Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2015 deaths, Chicago White Sox players, Boston Red Sox players, Baltimore Orioles players, New York Yankees players, Houston Astros players, Sportspeople from North Carolina, People from Greensboro, North Carolina

Hector Harold "Hal" Brown (December 11, 1924 - December 17, 2015), nicknamed "Skinny", was an American pitcher in Major League Baseball. He played from 1951 through 1964 for the Chicago White Sox, Boston Red Sox, Baltimore Orioles, New York Yankees, and Houston Colt .45s.

He batted and threw right-handed; nicknamed 'Skinny Brown' by his parents because he was obese as a child. Brown weighed 180 and stood 6 tall during his active career. Brown was born in Greensboro, North Carolina.

Brown died in Greensboro, North Carolina, aged 91.

[[Peter Dickinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, Disease-related deaths in Hampshire, English children's writers, English poets, People educated at Eton College

Peter Malcolm de Brissac Dickinson OBE FRSL (16 December 1927 – 16 December 2015) was an English author and poet. He was best known for children's books and detective stories.

Dickinson won the annual Carnegie Medal from the Library Association for both Tulku (1979) and City of Gold (1980), each being called as the year's outstanding children's book by a British subject. Through 2012 he is one of seven writers to win two Carnegies; no one has won three. 

For his contributions as a children's writer Dickinson was a finalist for the Hans Christian Andersen Medal in 2000.

Dickinson died on his birthday in Winchester, Hampshire, England from an illness, aged 88.

[[Combine harvester]]

CATEGORIES: Agricultural machinery

A combine harvester, also called a combine, is a machine that harvests crops. Its name comes from doing three separate parts of harvesting crops at once: 

Far fewer people work in farming as a result of the combine harvester.

[[Greville Janner]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British lawyers, British writers, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in London, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Harvard University alumni, Jewish British politicians, Jewish British writers, Politicians from Glamorgan, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, Welsh politicians, Writers from Cardiff

Greville Ewan Janner, Baron Janner of Braunstone (11 July 1928 – 19 December 2015) was a British politician, barrister and writer.

He was QC since 1971, he was a Labour MP from 1970 to 1997; and then a member of the House of Lords until he died. He was associated with a number of Jewish organisations including the Board of Deputies of British Jews, of which he was chairman from 1978 to 1984, and he was prominent in the field of education about the Holocaust.

Janner was alleged to have abused vulnerable children from 1955 to 1988.

Janner died on 19 December 2015 in London from Alzheimer's disease, aged 87 and months earlier he had been demoed unfit to stand trial over allegations of 33 years of sexually abusing vulnerable children.

[[Prayer in C]]

CATEGORIES: Dance music

"Prayer in C" is a song by the band Lilly Wood and the Prick.  It was originally released as a folk-pop song. The song was later remixed by DJ Robin Schulz in 2014. Schulz' remix peaked at number one on Billboard's Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart. It hit number one in many European countries including the UK and Belgium. It reached the top twenty in Canada.  The remix is a dance and house song.  It was included on Schulz' album, Prayer.

[[Mutabar Tadjibayeva]]

CATEGORIES: Uzbekistani people, 1962 births, Living people, Human rights activists, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Mutabar Tadjibayeva (Uzbek: Mo'tabar Tojiboyeva) is a journalist and human rights activist from Uzbekistan. She started the “Fiery Hearts Club” NGO. She also started the Uzbek news website Jarayon.  In 2009 she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[The Fly (1958 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 movies, 1950s science fiction movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American monster movies, American science fiction horror movies, Body horror movies, English-language movies, Montreal, 1950s horror movies, Movies directed by Kurt Neumann

The Fly is an American science fiction horror movie set in Montreal. It is directed by Kurt Neumann and written by James Clavell.

It was followed by two sequels: Return of the Fly and Curse of the Fly. A remake was released in 1986.

[[Ambiga Sreenevasan]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Exeter, Lawyers, Malaysian people, Women lawyers, Women who received the International Women of Courage Award

Ambiga Sreenevasan (born 1956) is a lawyer and human rights advocate from Malaysia. In 2009, she received the International Women of Courage Award. 

[[Red Fisher]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Canadian journalists, Elmer Ferguson Award winners, 2018 deaths, Writers from Montreal

Red Fisher (22 August 1926 – 19 January 2018) was a Canadian retired sports journalist. His columns focused on the National Hockey League and its Montreal Canadiens team. He was born in Montreal, Quebec. he began his hockey coverage in The Montreal Star newspaper in 1954 where he remained as writer and sports editor until that paper's demise in 1979. He retired in 2012.

Fisher died in Montreal on 19 January 2018 at the age of 91.

[[Wazhma Frogh]]

CATEGORIES: Women who received the International Women of Courage Award, Human rights activists, Afghan activists, Living people

Wazhma Frogh is a women's rights activist from Afghanistan. In 2009, she received the International Women of Courage Award.

[[Chris Diamantopoulos]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Actors from Toronto, Comedians from Toronto, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors

Christopher "Chris" Diamantopoulos (born May 9, 1975; Χριστόφορος "Κρις" Διαμαντόπουλος) is a Greek-Canadian actor and comedian. He is known for playing Moe Howard in the 2012 The Three Stooges film, and for voicing Mickey Mouse in the 2013 TV series of the same name.

[[The Rest of the Robots]]

CATEGORIES: Science fiction books, 1964 books, Isaac Asimov

The Rest of the Robots (1964) is a collection of eight short stories and two full-length novels by Isaac Asimov. The stories are all part of the Robot series, and follow on from ʽI, Robotʼ. The novels were not included in some published versions.

The stories are as followsː

Robot AL-76 Goes Astray (1941).

Robot AL-76, known as Al, is manufactured to do mining work on the Moon, but ends up in a rural part of Earth. It can't find the tool it is meant to use, so builds a better one out of ̼junk it finds in a workshop.

Victory Unintentional (1942)

Intelligent life has been discovered on the planet Jupiter. Humans cannot land on the planet because of the powerful gravity and lack of air. They send a spaceship containing three very powerful ZZ series robots. They land on Jupiter, but the inhabitants, known as Jovians, try to attack and kill them. But when the Jovians eventually discover that the robots are too powerful to be destroyed, they decide instead to make peace with humans.

First Law (1956)

A robot engineer tells a story about Emma Two, a EM series robot, that abandoned him to die in a storm on the asteroid Titan.

Let's Get Together (1957)

An American secret service agent claims that the Soviet Union has developed humanoid robots (they cannot be distinguished from humans), and that they are being infiltrated into the USA. The head of robotics realises just in time that the agent is himself a robot and destroys him.

Satisfaction Guaranteed (1951)

Robot TN-3, Tony, is introduced into the house of Claire Belmont as an experiment, by her husband, a robot engineer with US Robots. Tony realises that Claire has very low self-esteem and tries to help, even offering to become her lover and making sure that the neighbours know it.

Risk (1955)

Humans have set up an experimental base on an asteroid to build the first spaceship to travel through hyperspace (faster than light). The ship is piloted by a robot, but the experiment fails. An engineer goes on board and discovers that the fault lies with the robot, not the ship.

Lenny (1958)

An LNE robot, known as Lenny, is built, but with a fault. It's brain is childlike and it can't speak. Susan Calvin experiments with it and eventually teaches it to speak a few words.

Galley Slave (1957)

Robot EZ-27, known as Easy, is placed in a university to carry out a variety of jobs, including proof-reading. A professor of sociology, Simon Ninheimer, claims that the robot changed the text of a book by himself that it was checking. He takes US Robots to court. Susan Calvin is able to prove that Ninheimer set up the text changes deliberately, so that he could ruin the reputation of the Company and the robots they make.

The Caves of Steel (1953)

The Naked Sun (1956)

[[Selma Reis]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2015 deaths, Brazilian television actors, Brazilian singers, Deaths from brain cancer, Disease-related deaths in Brazil

Selma Reis (24 August 1960 – 19 December 2015) was a Brazilian actress and singer. She was born in São Gonçalo, Rio de Janeiro. She acted in many telenovelas and miniseries for Rede Globo, including Caminho das Índias, Páginas da Vida, Presença de Anita and Chiquinha Gonzaga. After 1987, she released a debut album, the first of eleven releases.

[[Red Star OS]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems, North Korea

Red Star OS is the operating system used by computers in North Korea. The latest version of the operating system is Red Star 3 and it looks almost exactly like macOS. Before Red Star 3 came out, Red Star looked more like Windows instead of macOS. Red Star OS also has its very own web browser called Naenara which means "my country" in Korean. It has a modified version of Mozilla Firefox and it has the North Korean internet called Kwangmyong.

[[Maureen McGovern]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American movie actors, American pop singers, American stage actors, American television actors, People from Youngstown, Ohio, Singers from Ohio

Maureen McGovern (born July 27, 1949) is an American singer and Broadway actress. She is well known known for her renditions of songs such as "The Morning After" from the 1972 movie The Poseidon Adventure. 

McGovern was born in Youngstown, Ohio.

[[Because You Loved Me]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 songs, 1990s ballads, Celine Dion songs, Pop ballads, Rhythm and blues ballads

"Because You Loved Me" is a 1996 pop-R&B ballad by Canadian singer Celine Dion. Its lyrics are about the protagonist thanking a loyal loved one for guiding, encouraging and protecting her and for making her who she is. It was originally written for the movie Up Close and Personal. Diane Warren, who wrote the song (and others for artists like Cher, Aerosmith, Monica, and Lady Gaga), said the song was a tribute to her father. "Because You Loved Me" won Warren a Grammy Award for Best Song Written for a Motion Picture, Television, or Other Visual Media.

"Because You Loved Me" is the second track on Dion's album Falling into You. The song topped the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 for six weeks and finished as the third-best performing song of 1996 there.  It also reached number one in Canada and Australia and reached number five in the UK.  It was certified Platinum in the US for sales and shipments of over one million copies.

[[Delirium (Ellie Goulding album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 albums, Ellie Goulding, Pop albums

Delirium is the third studio album by English singer-songwriter Ellie Goulding.  The album was released on 6 November 2015.  It features the lead single "On My Mind", which reached the top five in the United Kingdom and the top twenty in the United States.  The hit song "Love Me like You Do", recorded for the movie Fifty Shades of Grey, is also included on the album.  Delirium has reached number two on the album charts in Canada and the top three in the US, UK, and Australia.

[[IPhone 6S]]

CATEGORIES: IPhone, Mobile phones released in 2010s, Mobile phones with 4K video recording

The iPhone 6S and iPhone 6S Plus are two smartphones designed by Apple Inc. They were released on September 25, 2015. They replace the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, respectively.  These "S" models have a rose gold finish. They have cameras on the front (5 megapixels) and back (12 megapixels). The screens are 4.7 for the 6S and 5.5 for the 6S Plus.  The storage capacities are 16, 64, and 128 gigabytes.  A new feature, Force Touch, is on these models and is also on the Apple Watch.  Live Photos is a new feature that allows users to take moving photos.

[[Deaths in 2016]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, Index lists

The following is a list of notable deaths in 2016. For notable deaths for each month, please see "Months".  Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

[[Deaths in January 2016]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, January 2016 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in January 2016. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Previous months".  Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

[[Patricia Elliott]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Colorado, American stage actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in New York City, Tony Award winning actors

Patricia Elliott (July 21, 1938 – December 20, 2015) was an American actress. She was born in Gunnison, Colorado. She was known for her roles as Renée Divine Buchanan in the soap opera One Life to Live and as Countess Charlotte Malcolm in the Stephen Sondheim musical A Little Night Music. She won a Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Musical in 1973.

Elliott died in New York City, from cancer, aged 77.

[[Carol Burns]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2015 deaths, People from Brisbane, Australian movie actors, Australian stage actors, Australian television actors, Cancer deaths in Queensland

Carol Burns (22 February 1947 – 21 December 2015) was an Australian actress. She was born in Brisbane, Queensland. She worked in Australia and in the United Kingdom. She began her career in 1967. Burns was known for her role as Franky Doyle in the soap opera Prisoner.

Burns died of cancer at her home in Brisbane at the age of 68.

[[Georgetown, Guyana]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in South America, Guyana

Georgetown is the capital city of Guyana. It is located in the Demerara-Mahaica region. It is the country's largest city. The population in 2012 was about 235,017 people.

[[Joe Kittinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, American aviators, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, Colonels, Military people from Florida, People from Tampa, Florida, Prisoners of war

Joseph William Kittinger II (born July 27, 1928) is a retired Colonel in the United States Air Force and a USAF Command Pilot. He was born in Tampa, Florida. He set a world record for the longest skydive from a height more than 31. He was also the first man to cross the Atlantic Ocean, alone, in a hot air balloon.

He was a fighter pilot in the Vietnam War and was a prisoner of war in a North Vietnamese prison.

[[Duolingo]]

CATEGORIES: American websites, Learning

Duolingo is a free language-learning program. Its website and mobile apps are available to anyone with an internet connection plus a computer, tablet or smartphone. Duolingo can be used on iOS, Android, Windows 8 and 10 operating systems. Duolingo allows people to learn over 50 different language courses in 23 languages. There are over 100 million people learning a language on Duolingo.

Duolingo uses a unique way to make money. Duolingo lets people learn new languages while the company makes money from crowd-sourcing the translation of actual documents.

[[Wyre Forest]]

CATEGORIES: Forests of the United Kingdom, Worcestershire, Shropshire

Wyre Forest is a large, semi-natural woodland and forest measuring 26.34. It sits across the borders of Worcestershire and Shropshire, England. It is lightly managed.

[[Jan Góra]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Poland, Polish Roman Catholics, Polish writers, Roman Catholic priests

Jan Wojciech Góra OP (8 February 1948 – 21 December 2015) was a Polish Dominican Roman Catholic Priest, Doctor of Theology, academic and chaplain. Since 1997, he had been the organiser of the Polish Youth Meeting Lednica 2000 at the Lednica Fields. He was the animator for the academic chaplaincy centre "Respublica Dominicana" in Jamna. He was the author of numerous books and articles. He was born in Prudnik.

Góra died at the age of 67 in Poznań, Poland from a heart attack.

[[Rolf Bossi]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, German writers, German lawyers, People from Munich

Rolf Bossi (10 September 1923 – 22 December 2015) was a German criminal defense lawyer. He was born in Munich. He was known for defending known actors such as Ingrid van Bergen and Romy Schneider, as well as notable criminals such as Jürgen Bartsch, Dieter Zlof, and Dieter Degowski. He also defended four former East German border guards who were accused of having killed Chris Gueffroy, who was trying to escape over the Berlin wall. He was considered to be one of Germany's best-known defense lawyers.

Bossi died in Munich, Germany from natural causes at the age of 92.

[[Hocine Aït Ahmed]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Algerian politicians, Socialists

Hocine Aït Ahmed (حسين آيت أحمد; (August 20, 1926 – December 23, 2015) was an Algerian politician. He was founder and leader of the historical political opposition, Socialist Forces Front, in Algeria until 2009. He was born in Ain El Hammam, Algeria. Arrested and sentenced to death in 1964, he escaped from the El Harrach prison on May 1, 1966. Exiled in Switzerland, he became a doctor of law.

Aït Ahmed died at age 89 in Lausanne, Switzerland on December 23, 2015.

[[Laurence R. Harvey]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Actors from Greater Manchester, Actors from Lancashire, English movie actors, People from Wigan

Laurence Robert Harvey (born 17 July 1970) is an English actor. He is best known for playing Martin Lomax in the horror movie The Human Centipede 2 (Full Sequence) and as Dwight in The Human Centipede 3 (Final Sequence).

[[Dieter Laser]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2020 deaths, German movie actors, German television actors, People from Kiel

Dieter Laser (17 February 1942 – 29 February 2020) was a German actor. He is known to English speaking audiences for his roles as Mantrid in Lexx, Prof. Otto Blaettchen in The Ogre, Dr. Josef Heiter in The Human Centipede (First Sequence) and Bill Boss in The Human Centipede 3 (Final Sequence). 

[[Tom Six]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Dutch movie directors, Dutch movie producers, Dutch screenwriters, People from Alkmaar, Writers from North Holland

Tom Six (born 29 August 1973) is a Dutch filmmaker. He is best known for his body horror movies, The Human Centipede (First Sequence), The Human Centipede 2 (Full Sequence) and The Human Centipede 3 (Final Sequence).

[[The Human Centipede 2 (Full Sequence)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 crime movies, 2011 horror movies, 2010s sequel movies, Body horror movies, Dutch movies, British crime movies, British horror movies, English-language movies, Movies about abduction, Movies about murderers, Rape in movies, Obscenity controversies

The Human Centipede 2 (Full Sequence) is a 2011 British-Dutch black and white exploitation movie written, directed, and co-produced by Dutch filmmaker Tom Six. It is a sequel to Six's 2009 movie The Human Centipede (First Sequence). The movie stars Laurence R. Harvey and Ashlynn Yennie. It was followed by The Human Centipede 3 (Final Sequence).

[[The Human Centipede 3 (Final Sequence)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 horror movies, 2010s sequel movies, Body horror movies, Dutch movies, English-language movies, Prison movies

The Human Centipede 3 (Final Sequence) is a 2015 English-language Dutch body horror movie written and directed by Tom Six. It is the third and final installment in Six's Human Centipede trilogy. It was confirmed to be in production in May 2013.

Starring Dieter Laser and Laurence R. Harvey, the leading actors from the first two movies, in new roles. It also stars Eric Roberts as The Governor. The Human Centipede 3 was released both theatrically and on video on demand on 22 May 2015.

[[Don Howe]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2015 deaths, 1958 FIFA World Cup players, 1962 FIFA World Cup players, Arsenal F.C. players, English footballers, English football managers, English writers, People from Wolverhampton, Sportspeople from Staffordshire

Donald "Don" Howe (12 October 1935 – 23 December 2015) was an English football player, coach, manager and pundit. He was born in the Springfield area of Wolverhampton.

[[Pazyryk rug]]

CATEGORIES: Textile arts, Siberia, 5th century BC, 4th century BC

The Pazyryk rug is one of the oldest carpets in the world, dating around the 4th–3rd centuries BC. It is now in the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia. The Pazyryk rug was found in 1949 in the grave of a Scythian nobleman in the Bolshoy Ulagan dry valley of the Altai Mountains in  Kazakhstan. The Pazyrk rug had been frozen in the ice and it was very well preserved. The rug has a ribbon pattern in the middle, and a border which has deer, and warriors riding on horses. All parts of the rug are made of wool, including the pile and the base.

Being produced either in Ancient Armenia, Persia, or Central Asia, this carpet has 3600 symmetrical double knots per dm² (232 per inch²), in modern terminology also called "Ghiordes knot (or "Turkish knot"). The design and the systematic motifs of the Pazyrk rug would later be found in similar Turkmen carpets, carpets of the early Seljuq period, and subsequently modern Turkish carpets and kilims.

[[George Clayton Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, American science fiction writers, American screenwriters, American television writers, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from bladder cancer, Deaths from prostate cancer, People from Cheyenne, Wyoming

George Clayton Johnson (July 10, 1929 – December 25, 2015) was an American science fiction writer. He was most famous for co-writing the novel Logan's Run with William F. Nolan, the basis for the 1976 movie. 

He was also known for his television screenplays for The Twilight Zone (such as "Nothing in the Dark", "Kick the Can", "A Game of Pool", and "A Penny for Your Thoughts"), and the first episode of Star Trek, "The Man Trap". He also wrote the story on which the 1960 and 2001 movie Ocean's Eleven were based.

Johnson died of bladder and prostate cancer on December 25, 2015 at a hospital in North Hills, Los Angeles, California at the age of 86. His death was falsely reported on December 22.

[[Jason Myers]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, American football players, People from San Diego County, California

Jason Myers (born May 12, 1991) is an American football placekicker for the Jacksonville Jaguars of the National Football League (NFL). He was born in Chula Vista, California. He played college football at Marist College in Poughkeepsie, NY. In 2014 Myers played for the Arizona Rattlers and the San Jose SaberCats of the Arena Football League. On March 3, 2015, Myers signed with the Jacksonville Jaguars. On August 31, 2015, the Jaguars announced that Myers had earned the placekicker role on the team. Veteran Josh Scobee was traded to the Pittsburgh Steelers.

[[Trams in Malmö]]

CATEGORIES: Tram transport, Malmo, Transport in Sweden

The Malmö tramway is a former tramway network in the city Malmö of Sweden. It remains a network about 2 km as a historic line.

[[Freda Meissner-Blau]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Activists, Austrian politicians, Deaths from stroke, Greens politicians, People from Dresden, Politicians from Saxony

Freda Meissner-Blau (March 11, 1927 – December 22, 2015) was an Austrian politician and activist. She was an important figure in the Austrian environmental movement. She was a founder and the federal spokesperson of the Austrian Green Party. She was born in Dresden, Germany.

Meissner-Blau died in Vienna, Austria from complications following a stroke at the age of 88.

[[Jean-Marie Pelt]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, French biologists, Botanists, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Pharmacists

Jean-Marie Pelt (24 October 1933 – 23 December 2015) was a French biologist, botanist and pharmacist with degrees in both Biology and Pharmacy. He was professor at the University of Lorraine. As municipal councilor of Metz between 1971 and 1983, Jean-Marie Pelt pioneered a policy of urban ecology. Pelt was born in Rodemack, France.

Pelt died in Metz, France from a heart attack, aged 82.

[[Lennart Johansson]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2019 deaths, Sportspeople from Stockholm, Presidents of UEFA

Nils Lennart Johansson (5 November 1929 – 4 June 2019) was a Swedish sports official. He was the fifth and, to date, the longest serving president of UEFA, the Union of European Football Associations, from his election at UEFA's Malta Congress in 1990 until his retirement in 2007. He was made honorary president shortly afterwards.

He started as a leader in the sport of bandy in Sweden for his hometown team AIK. Johansson then came through the ranks in the Swedish Football Association, and served as the association's president between 1984 and 1991.

Johansson died on 4 June 2019 in Stockholm, aged 89.

[[Peter Lundblad]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Swedish singers, Swedish writers, Songwriters

Gustaf Peter Lundblad (26 August 1950 - 22 December 2015) was a Swedish singer and songwriter. He was known for his 1986 song Ta mig till havet. Lundblad started his career in the band 'The most Remarkable Nailband'.

Lundblad died of prostate cancer on 22 December 2015 in Stockholm at the age of 65.

[[Ray Mathews]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh Steelers players, Dallas Cowboys players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Raymond Dyral Mathews (February 26, 1929 – December 20, 2015) was an American football running back and wide receiver in the National Football League for the Pittsburgh Steelers (1951-59) and the Dallas Cowboys (1960). He played college football for Clemson University. He was born in Dayton, Pennsylvania.

Mathews died at his house in Marion, Pennsylvania from complications of Alzheimer's disease at the age of 86.

[[Bronchodilator]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

A bronchodilator is a substance that dilates (opens up) the bronchi and bronchioles which increases airflow to the lungs. Bronchodilators may be endogenous (originating naturally within the body), or they may be medications taken to treat breathing difficulties. They are most useful in obstructive lung diseases. Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are the most common such conditions. They are also used to treat respritory blockages that usaully occur when you have the common cold. They are well prescribed by doctors and are really common in house holds. Although this remains somewhat controversial, they might be useful in bronchiolitis and Bronchiectasis.They are often prescribed but of unproven significance in restrictive lung diseases.

[[Osmany Juantorena]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Cuban volleyball players

Osmany Juantorena Portuondo (born 12 August 1985) is a Cuban volleyball player with Italian citizenship, a member of Cuba national volleyball team in 2003–2006 and current member of Italy national volleyball team and Italian club Cucine Lube, bronze medalist of the World League 2005.  He is a multiple winner of the CEV Champions League and Club World Championship with the Italian club Trentino.

[[Henri Ducard]]

CATEGORIES: Batman characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1989

Henri Ducard is a fictional character in the Batman comic book universe. He was created by Sam Hamm. Ducard's first appearance was in Detective Comics #599 (April 1989), part of the "Blind Justice" story arc that Hamm, the screenwriter of the 1989 Batman movie, was asked to guest-write for Detective Comics by Batman editor Denny O'Neil. 

The character was the undercover name of Ra's al Ghul which appeared in the movie Batman Begins played by Liam Neeson.

[[Ron Jacobs]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Sportspeople from North Carolina

Ron Jacobs (December 27, 1942 – December 24, 2015) was an American basketball coach. He was born in Marion, North Carolina. He coached for college basketball teams such as Loyola Marymount University and for Northern Cement. He also coached the Philippine national team.

Jacobs moved to Pasig City, Philippines during the 1980s. He suffered a major stroke in 2001 which left him in a wheelchair. Jacobs died in Makati, Philippines from complications following the stroke at the age of 72.

[[Carpetbagger]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United States, Words, American Civil War

Carpetbagger is a term from the United States political history. A carpetbagger was a northerner  who moved to the South after the American Civil War. This period is called the "reconstruction era". 

White southerners feared they would loot the defeated South. Sixty carpetbaggers were elected to Congress. Among them were most Republican governors in the South during reconstruction. A historian said:

"Carpetbagger" referred to the cheap carpet bags (a form of luggage) which many of the newcomers carried. The term came to be associated with opportunism and exploitation by outsiders.  It is used today for a "parachute candidate": a political candidate for public office in an area far from home.

[[The Sims (video game series)]]

CATEGORIES: The Sims

The Sims is a series of sandbox games in which you have a life and job. The game developed by Maxis and published by Electronic Arts. The games also have expansion packs which you can download. If you download them you get extra content.

[[Battle of Cannae]]

CATEGORIES: 210s BC, Punic Wars, Apulia, August events

The Battle of Cannae (ˈ or ˈ) was a major battle of the Second Punic War. It took place on 2 August 216 BC in Cannae, Apulia, in southeast Italy. The army of Carthage, under Hannibal, defeated a larger Roman army. The Romans were led by the consuls Lucius Aemilius Paullus and Gaius Terentius Varro. Hannibal's victory was one the greatest tactical feats in military history. It was also one of the worst defeats in Roman history.

After recovering from their losses at Trebia (218 BC) and Lake Trasimene (217 BC), the Romans decided to fight Hannibal at Cannae. The Roman army had about 70,000 soldiers. The Romans massed their heavy infantry in a deeper formation than usual. Hannibal attacked using a double-envelopment tactic. This was so successful that the Roman army was destroyed as a fighting force by an army half its size. About 45,500 Roman and allied soldiers were killed. Also killed were 2,700 Roman cavalry. About 17,000 were taken prisoner. Hannibal lost a total of about 4,000 men. Following the defeat, many of Rome's allies changed sides  and allied themselves with Carthage.

[[Roberto Rossellini]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1977 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Rome, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Italian movie directors, Italian movie producers, Italian screenwriters, Television directors, Television producers, Television writers, Writers from Rome

Roberto Gastone Zeffiro Rossellini, (8 May 1906 – 3 June 1977), was an Italian movie director, producer and screenwriter. He was born in Rome. He was best known for his movies Rome, Open City (1945), Paisà (1946) and Germany, Year Zero (1948).

Rossellini died from a heart attack in Rome, Italy, aged 71.

[[Placekicker]]

CATEGORIES: American football placekickers, Canadian football

The placekicker, also called a kicker, is the player in American and Canadian football who is responsible for the kicking duties of field goals and extra points. In many cases, the placekicker also serves as the team's kickoff specialist or, more rarely, punter, as well. A kicker is often called the most valuable player on the team. This is because in many cases, he scores the most points in a game. Each time his team gets to the 35 yard line or closer, they have a chance to score 3 points. Each time their team makes a touchdown, the kicker comes in to make the extra (1) point. A kicker is a member of the special teams.

[[Ali Eid]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2015 deaths, Lebanese Muslims, Lebanese politicians

Ali Eid (14 July 1940 – 25 December 2015) was a Lebanese politician. He was the leader of the Alawite Community. He founded the Arab Democratic Party in 1972 and until his death served as General Secretary of the Arab Democratic Party. He was born in Tripoli.

On 25 December 2015, it was announced that Eid died in Damascus, Syria at the age of 75.

[[Coptic calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars, Egypt

Coptic calendar (also known as Alexandrian calendar) is a calendar used by the Coptic Church in Egypt. It is based on the Egyptian calendar which was first introduced in 238 BC.

[[Jacques Santer]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, European Commissioners, Government ministers of Luxembourg, Prime Ministers of Luxembourg

Jacques Santer (born 18 May 1937 in Wasserbillig) is a Luxembourgian politician.

He was finance minister of Luxembourg from 1979 until 1989. He was the 22nd Prime Minister of Luxembourg serving from 1984 to 1995. He was a member of the Christian Social People's Party, which has been the leading party in the Luxembourg government since 1979. 

As Prime Minister of Luxembourg he also led the negotiations on the Single European Act, which effectively set aside the 20-year-old Luxembourg Compromise. He was the President of the European Commission from 1995 to 1999.

[[Egyptian calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars, Ancient Egypt

The ancient civil  Egyptian calendar was  a calendar used by the ancient Egyptians. At first it had a year that was 365 days long. The year was made up of 12 months each having 30 days. At some point during the First Dynasty five additional days were added (sometime around 3000 BC). Egyptian astronomers observed that the annual flood of the Nile River fell very close to the first visibility of the star Sirius in the morning sky just before sunrise. This calendar would drift by 1 day every four years. But this drift was not enough to cause any problems. Even if a person lived to be 60 years old the drift between solar and civil calendars would only be 15 days. In 238 BC the Decree of Canopus added a sixth day every four years to correct this. But it was largely ignored. In 30 BCE the Roman Emperor Augustus reformed the Egyptian calendar by adding a leap day to every fourth year. This brought the Egyptian calendar in line with the Julian calendar used at the time in Rome.

[[Ukrainian National Union]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Ukraine, Political parties in Europe, 2009 establishments in Europe, Nationalist organizations in Europe, Establishments in Ukraine

The Ukrainian National Union (Український Національний Союз) is nationalist paramilitary political party in Ukraine. Started as a political organization in 2009 and became a political party in 2013.

[[West Berlin discotheque bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 in Europe, 1980s explosions, 1980s in Germany, 1980s murders in Europe, 20th century in Berlin, 20th century in Libya, April 1986 events, Attacks on buildings and structures in Germany, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1980s, Attacks on nightclubs, Cold War, Explosions in Europe, Murder in Germany, Presidency of Ronald Reagan, Terrorist incidents in Europe in the 1980s, Terrorist incidents in Germany

On 5 April 1986 three people were killed and around 230 injured when La Belle discothèque was bombed in West Berlin, West Germany. The entertainment venue was commonly used by United States soldiers, and two of the dead and 79 of the injured were American servicemen.

A bomb placed under a table near the disk jockey's booth exploded at 1:45 am CET instantly killing a Turkish woman, and a US Army sergeant. A second American Army sergeant died from his injuries two months later. Some of the victims were left permanently disabled due to the injuries.

Libya was accused by the US government of sponsoring the bombing, and US President Ronald Reagan ordered strikes on Tripoli and Benghazi in Libya ten days later. The strikes reportedly killed 15-30 people, including Colonel Gaddafi's adopted daughter. Reagan's actions were condemned by the United Nations General Assembly.

A 2001 trial in the US found that the bombing had been "planned by the Libyan secret service and the Libyan Embassy."

[[Malta Summit]]

CATEGORIES: 1989, George H. W. Bush, Mikhail Gorbachev, Cold War, Malta, 1989 in the United States, 1980s in the Soviet Union, December events

The Malta Summit comprised a meeting between U.S. President George H. W. Bush and U.S.S.R. leader Mikhail Gorbachev. It took place between December 2-3, 1989, just a few weeks after the fall of the Berlin Wall.  It was their second meeting following a meeting that included then President Ronald Reagan, in New York in December 1988.  

During the summit, Bush and Gorbachev would declare an end to the Cold War, although whether it was truly such is a matter of debate.

[[Germany national volleyball team]]

CATEGORIES: National volleyball teams, Sport in Germany

The Germany men's national volleyball team is the national team of Germany. It is governed by the DVV (Deutscher Volleyball-Verband). It takes part in international volleyball competitions. Germany won the gold medal in World Championship 1970 under East Germany. It won the bronze medal in the 2014 World Championships.

After German reunification, West Germany (1949–1990) was renamed Germany and they absorbed East Germany (1949–1990) with the records.

[[Italy national volleyball team]]

CATEGORIES: National volleyball teams, Sport in Italy

The Italy men's national volleyball team is the volleyball national team of Italy. It dominated international volleyball competitions in the 1990s and early 2000s, by winning three World Championships in a row (1990, 1994 and 1998), seven European Championships, one World Cup (1995) and eight World League (1990, 1991, 1992, 1994, 1995, 1997, 1999 and 2000).

[[Brazil national volleyball team]]

CATEGORIES: National volleyball teams, Sport in Brazil

The Brazil men's national volleyball team is the national team of Brazil. It is governed by the Confederação Brasileira de Voleibol (Brazilian Volleyball Confederation) and takes part in international volleyball competitions. Brazil has two gold medal at the Olympic Games, won three times the World Champioship and nine times the World League. Brazil is the #1 team on the FIVB World Rankings. The team is often referred to as volleyball's "Dream Team" due to its success under coach Bernardo Rezende.

[[Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization (1968)]]

CATEGORIES: Presidency of Ronald Reagan

The Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization or PATCO was a United States trade union. It ran from 1968 until its decertification in 1981 following an illegal strike that was broken by the Ronald Reagan Administration. The 1981 strike and defeat of PATCO was called "one of the most important events in late twentieth century U.S. labor history" by labor historian Joseph A. McCartin.

[[Eugenia Charles]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, Deaths from surgical complications, Prime Ministers of Dominica, Lawyers, Women lawyers, Women politicians, Caribbean people

Dame Mary Eugenia Charles, DBE (15 May 1919 – 6 September 2005) was a Dominican politician and lawyer. She was the Prime Minister of Dominica serving from 21 July 1980 until 14 June 1995. She was Dominica's first, and to date only, female prime minister, as well as the nation's longest-serving prime minister. 

Charles died in Fort-de-France, Martinique from a pulmonary embolism caused by hip surgery that she had a few days before. She was 86 years old.

[[Cranial nerve]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the nervous system

A cranial nerve is any nerve which is attached directly to the brain or brainstem. This is different from spinal nerves which are attached to segments of the spinal cord. Cranial nerves relay information more directly between the brain and body (mostly parts of the head and neck).

Each cranial nerve exists as a pair and is present on both sides of the central nervous system. All cranial nerves appear above the first vertebra in the neck (cervical vertebra).

In humans there are twelve cranial nerves pairs. They are numbered using Roman numerals I–XII based on their order from the front of the brain to the back, where the brainstem is.

[[Volleyball at the Summer Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball, Summer Olympic Games

Volleyball has been played at the Summer Olympics ever since the 1964 Summer Olympics. The history of Olympic volleyball can be traced back to the 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris, where volleyball was played as part of an American sports demonstration event. It was only added as an Olympic sport, however, after World War II. This was when the FIVB was founded and of some of the continental confederations. In 1957, a special tournament was held at the 53rd IOC session in Sofia, Bulgaria, to support such request. The competition was a success, and the sport was officially introduced in 1964. The Olympic Committee initially dropped volleyball for the 1968 Olympics, meeting protests.

[[John Boyega]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Actors from London, BAFTA Award winning actors, Black British actors, English movie actors, English television actors

John Adedayo B. Adegboyega (born 17 March 1992), better known as John Boyega, is a British actor. He is best known for playing Finn in Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015), Star Wars: The Last Jedi (2017) and Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker (2019). He has also appeared in Attack the Block (2011), Detroit (2017) and Pacific Rim: Uprising (2018). He won the 2016 BAFTA Rising Star Award.

Boyega was born in Peckham, London. His parents are Nigerian.

[[Daisy Ridley]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Actors from London, English movie actors, English television actors

Daisy Jazz Isobel Ridley (born 10 April 1992) is a British actress. She is best known for playing Rey in Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015), Star Wars: The Last Jedi (2017) and Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker (2019). She also appeared in Casulty and Silent Witness.

Ridley was born in Westminster, London. Her great-uncle was Dad's Army actor Arnold Ridley.

[[Adriana Olguín]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2015 deaths, Centenarians, Chilean politicians, Civil servants, Deaths from natural causes, Chilean lawyers, People from Valparaíso, Women lawyers

Adriana Olguín de Baltra (born Luz Adriana Margarita Olguín Buche) (18 November 1911 – 24 December 2015) was a Chilean lawyer and politician. She was born in Valparaíso, Chile. Olguín served as Chile's Minister of Justice serving from 29 July 1952 through 3 November 1952 under the Gabriel González Videla administration. She was the first woman to hold a position in any presidential cabinet in Latin American history.

Olguín died in her home in Viña del Mar, Chile from natural causes at the age of 104.

[[Daddy's Home (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 movies, 2010s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies set in California

Daddy's Home is a 2015 American comedy movie directed and written by Sean Anders. It was produced by Will Ferrell and Adam McKay. It stars Ferrell, Mark Wahlberg, Linda Cardellini, Thomas Haden Church with John Cena. It was filmed in New Orleans, Louisiana, but the movie takes place in California. It was released to mixed reviews on December 25, 2015. It was rated M in Australia and New Zealand for violence, sexual references and offensive language.

[[Dalton Trumbo]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning writers, 1905 births, 1976 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American screenwriters, American communists, Writers from Colorado

James Dalton Trumbo (December 9, 1905 – September 10, 1976) was an American screenwriter and novelist.

Trumbo was one of the Hollywood Ten, he refused to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) in 1947 during the committee's investigation of Communist influences in the motion picture industry. 

[[Run-Around]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 songs, Grammy Award winners

"Run-Around" is a song by American jam band, Blues Traveler. It was released on the 1994 album Four. It won the band's first  Grammy Award in 1995, for "Best Rock Vocal Performance by a Duo or Group.

The song was the band's first successful single, peaking at #8 on the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Trumbo (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 drama movies, 2010s biographical movies, Movies directed by Jay Roach, American biographical movies, American drama movies, Movies set in the 1950s, Movies set in Los Angeles, California

Trumbo is a 2015 American biographical-drama movie directed by Jay Roach. It was written by Michael London. The movie is about when screenwriter Dalton Trumbo is blacklisted as a communist for his support of the Communist Party of the USA during the 1950s. 

It stars Bryan Cranston as Trumbo with Diane Lane, Helen Mirren, Louis C.K., Elle Fanning, Michael Stuhlbarg, and John Goodman. It was released to positive reviews on November 6, 2015. 

[[Jim O'Toole]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2015 deaths, American baseball players, Cancer deaths in Ohio, Chicago White Sox players, Cincinnati Reds players, Sportspeople from Chicago

James Jerome "Jim" O'Toole (January 10, 1937 – December 26, 2015) was an American professional baseball pitcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Cincinnati Reds (1958–1966) and Chicago White Sox (1967). He was left-handed.

O'Toole was born in Chicago, Illinois. He married Betty Wall on July 2, 1960. They had 11 children.

O'Toole died from cancer on December 26, 2015 in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was 78.

[[Dichen Lachman]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Actors from Adelaide, Australian movie actors, Australian movie producers, Australian television actors, People from Kathmandu

Dichen Lachman (born 22 February 1982) is a Nepalese-born Australian actress and movie producer. She is best known for her roles in the television series Neighbours, Dollhouse, NCIS: Los Angeles, Hawaii Five-0, Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. and CSI: Crime Scene Investigation.

Lachman was born in Kathmandu. Her mother is Tibetan and her father is an Australian of German ancestry. She grew up in Adelaide, South Australia. She moved to the United States in 2007 and lives in Los Angeles, California. She is married to Max Osinski and has one child.

[[Dami Im]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Australian Christians, Australian pop singers, Australian singer-songwriters, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Musicians from Brisbane, R&B musicians, South Korean singers, The X Factor contestants, People from Incheon

Dami Im (임다미, born 17 October 1988) is a South Korean-born Australian singer. She is best known for winning the fifth season of The X Factor in 2013. Her first album was an ARIA number one. She has three studio albums, two extended plays, nine singles, two album appearances, and four music videos. She represented Australia at the Eurovision Song Contest in 2016, coming second with "Sound of Silence".

Im was born in Incheon. She grew up in Brisbane, Queensland. She is married and lives in Daisy Hill, a suburb of Logan City, Queensland. She is a Christian.

[[Haskell Wexler]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winners, 1922 births, American cinematographers, Movie directors from Chicago, Movie producers from Chicago, Screenwriters from Chicago

Haskell Wexler, A.S.C. (February 6, 1922 – December 27, 2015) was an American cinematographer, movie producer, screenwriter and director. He was born in Chicago, Illinois. He won an Academy Award for Best Cinematography in 1966.

Wexler was known for his works One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, Medium Cool, In the Heat of the Night, Days of Heaven and for Matewan. He was said to be one of film history's ten most influential cinematographers in a survey of the members of the International Cinematographers Guild.

Wexler died in his sleep at the age of 93 on December 27, 2015 at his home in Santa Monica, California.

[[Dave Henderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2015 deaths, African-American baseball players, Boston Red Sox players, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Washington (state), Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from surgical complications, Oakland Athletics players, Organ transplant recipients, San Francisco Giants players, Seattle Mariners players, Sportspeople from California

David Lee Henderson (July 21, 1958 – December 27, 2015), nicknamed Hendu, was an American professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Seattle Mariners, Boston Red Sox, San Francisco Giants, Oakland Athletics, and Kansas City Royals during his 14-year career. He was born in Merced, California.

Henderson died of a massive heart attack in Seattle, Washington, one month after receiving a kidney transplant, at the age of 57.

[[Jose Offerman]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, National League All-Stars, American League All-Stars, Living people, Philadelphia Phillies players, Minnesota Twins players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, New York Mets players, Kansas City Royals players, Boston Red Sox players, Seattle Mariners players

Jose Offerman was a Major League Baseball player who played for the Boston Red Sox among other teams.

[[Jim Klobuchar]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, American columnists, Writers from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Journalists from Minnesota

James John "Jim" Klobuchar (April 9, 1928 – May 12, 2021) was an American journalist, author, and tour guide. He wrote for the Star Tribune in Minneapolis for thirty years. He wrote an occasional column for the Christian Science Monitor. He was the father of U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar. He was born in Ely, Minnesota.

Klobuchar died in Burnsville, Minnesota on May 12, 2021 from problems caused by Alzheimer's disease, aged 93.

[[Mark Warner]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, United States senators from Virginia, Governors of Virginia, Politicians from Indianapolis, Indiana, US Democratic Party politicians

Mark Robert Warner (born December 15, 1954) is an American politician and the senior United States Senator from Virginia, in office since 2009. He is a member of the Democratic Party. Warner was the 69th Governor of Virginia, holding the office from 2002 to 2006.

[[Ellsworth Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2015 deaths, American painters, Artists from New York, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in New York, Gay men, LGBT artists, LGBT people from New York, People from Newburgh, New York

Ellsworth Kelly (May 31, 1923 – December 27, 2015) was an American painter, sculptor, and printmaker. He worked with hard-edge painting, Color Field painting and the minimalist school. His works showed unique techniques showing simplicity of form, similar to the work of John McLaughlin and Kenneth Noland. 

Kelly died in Spencertown, New York on December 27, 2015 of respiratory failure at the age of 92.

[[The Babadook]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, 2014 horror movies, 2010s monster movies, 2010s supernatural movies, Australian drama movies, Canadian drama movies, Canadian horror movies, English-language movies

The Babadook is a 2014 Australian-Canadian psychological horror drama movie, written and directed by Jennifer Kent as her directorial debut. It is about a woman and her son being tortured by an evil spirit based on a child's book. The movie stars Essie Davis and Noah Wiseman, while Daniel Henshall, Hayley McElhinney, Barbara West, and Ben Winspear appear in supporting roles.

The Babadook was produced by Causeway Films (Kristina Ceyton) and is based on the short movie Monster (2005), also written and directed by Kent. The movie was shown at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival and received positive reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes' aggregation, it was ranked as the third most-liked movie of the year.

[[Alfredo Pacheco]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2015 deaths, Murders by firearm, Salvadoran footballers

Alfredo Alberto Pacheco (1 December 1982 – 27 December 2015) was a Salvadoran footballer. He played for FAS and the New York Red Bulls. He also had the record for most appearances for his national team, playing 86 times.

Pacheco was born in Santa Ana. He was married with five children and lived in the United States.

Pacheco was shot and killed on 27 December 2015 in Santa Ana, aged 33.

[[Fetal alcohol syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Syndromes, Alcohol drinking habits, Disorders, Health care

Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is a group of mental and physical problems that can happen when a mother drinks alcohol while she is pregnant. A "syndrome" is a group of symptoms. "Fetal" means anything that has to do with a fetus. Fetal alcohol syndrome includes ways a fetus is hurt by alcohol while it is still in its mother's womb.

[[Stein Eriksen]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, 1952 Winter Olympics, American skiers, Norwegian Olympians, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Sportspeople from Oslo

Stein Eriksen (11 December 1927 – 27 December 2015) is a Norwegian-American alpine skier. He won gold and two silvers at the 1952 Winter Olympics in Oslo. He retired in 1954.

Eriksen was born in Oslo. His parents were Marius Eriksen (1886–1950) and Birgit Heien (1900–1996). He lived in the United States for six decades.

Eriksen died on 27 December 2015 in Park City, Utah. He was 88.

[[Meridian arc]]

CATEGORIES: Geodesy

In geodesy, a meridian arc is the distance between two points with the same longitude. In geometry it is an arc: a segment of a curve. The length of an imaginary rope laid over the globe would be that distance.

Two or more such measurements at different places get the shape of the  reference ellipsoid which is most like the shape of the geoid. This process is called "the determination of the figure of the Earth". The earliest determinations of the size of a spherical Earth used a single arc. The latest determinations use astro-geodetic measurements and the methods of satellite geodesy to get the reference ellipsoids.

The Alexandrian scientist Eratosthenes about 240 BC, first calculated a good value for circumference of the Earth. He knew that on the summer solstice at local noon the sun goes through the zenith in the ancient Egyptian city of Syene (Assuan). He also knew from his own measurements that, at the same moment in his hometown of Alexandria, the zenith distance was 1/50 of a full circle (7.2°). Assuming that Alexandria was due north of Syene, Eratosthenes concluded that the distance between Alexandria and Syene must be 1/50 of Earth's circumference.

In 1687 Newton published in the Principia a proof that the Earth was an oblate spheroid of flattening equal to 1/230.

[[Philip of Hesse-Darmstadt]]

CATEGORIES: 1671 births, 1736 deaths, German generals, Governors, Mantua, People from Darmstadt

Philip of Hesse-Darmstadt (July 20, 1671 in Darmstadt – August 11, 1736 in Vienna) was a Prince of Hesse-Darmstadt, Imperial Field Marshal and Governor of Mantua.

[[Sean Hayes (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American television producers, Emmy Award winning actors, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT people from Chicago, LGBT producers, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Sean Patrick Hayes (born June 26, 1970) is an American actor, comedian, and producer.  He is best known for his role as Jack McFarland on the NBC sitcom Will & Grace. During the series he won an Emmy Award, four SAG Awards, and one American Comedy Award, and earned six Golden Globe nominations. After Will & Grace he guest starred in programs such as 30 Rock, Portlandia and Parks and Recreation.

[[Robert Spitzer (psychiatrist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, American educators, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Washington (state), Cornell University alumni, American psychiatrists, Scientists from New York, Writers from New York

Robert Leopold Spitzer (May 22, 1932 – December 25, 2015) was an American psychiatrist. He was a professor of psychiatry at Columbia University in New York City. He was a major figure in the development of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). He helped remove homosexuality as a mental disorder.

Spitzer was born in White Plains, New York. He studied at Cornell University and at New York University School of Medicine. He worked at Columbia University until his retirement in 2010. Spitzer died of heart disease at his home in Seattle, Washington at the age of 83.

[[Mujaddid]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, Arabic words and phrases, Religious leaders

Mujaddid (مجدد) in Islam is a reformer who is given the task of removing errors that have occurred among Muslims. Their job is to show people the great religious truths which the Muslim community will be asked to face. According to the popular Muslim tradition, it refers to a person who appears at the turn of every century of the Islamic calendar to revive Islam, cleansing it of  extraneous elements and restoring it to its pristine purity. In contemporary times, a mujaddid is looked upon as the greatest Muslim of a century.

Ikhtilaf (disagreements) exist among vatious hadith specialists. Scholars and historians like Al-Dhahabi and Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani have interpreted that the term mujaddid can also be understood as plural, thus referring to a group of people.

The Arabic word mujaddid means "reformer", "renovator", "reviver", "renewer" or "regenerator". It is someone who revives and renovates the religion. The concept of tajdid (renewal or revival) and the term mujaddid come rather from a hadith, a statement of the Prophet Muhammad. This hadith was written down by Abu Dawood in his Sunan, one of the six authoritative Sunni collections of the Prophet's statements. In this hadith, the Prophet says:

This means reform is in the essential nature of Islam and Muslims are called all the time to work hard to make new ideas cope with tradition. It also means that not everything in the Muslim tradition is useful and good for this modern age; there are certain things that were possible in the past but are no longer relevant today. Slavery would be a prime example.

[[Eleanor Coen]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American painters, Artists from Illinois, People from Normal, Illinois

Eleanor Coen (October 21, 1916 – July 9, 2010) was an American painter. She was born in Normal, Illinois. Coen worked at the Art Institute of Chicago. Coen's work is displayed at the Smithsonian American Art Museum and Art Institute of Chicago.

Coen died of heart failure at the age of 93 in Evanston, Illinois. 

[[Martin Bell (director)]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, American movie directors

Martin Bell (born January 16, 1943) is an American movie director. He was best known for his movies such as Streetwise and American Heart. His career began in 1971 wile making short movies. He was married to Mary Ellen Mark until her death in 2015.

[[Aaron T. Beck]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, Living people, American centenarians, American psychiatrists, American educators, Scientists from Rhode Island, Scientists from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, People from Providence, Rhode Island

Aaron Temkin Beck (born July 18, 1921) is an American psychiatrist and a professor emeritus in the department of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania.  He is thought to be as the father of cognitive therapy, and his theories are widely used in the treatment of clinical depression.

[[Ralph Torres]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Governors of the Northern Mariana Islands, US Republican Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of the Northern Mariana Islands

Ralph Deleon Guerrero Torres (born August 6, 1979) is an American Republican politician from Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands. He is serving as the 9th Governor of the Northern Mariana Islands upon the death of governor Eloy Inos on December 28, 2015. He previously served as the 10th Lieutenant Governor. He was elected to this position in the 2014 election.

[[William Waad]]

CATEGORIES: 1546 births, 1623 deaths, English politicians

Sir William Waad (also Wade or Wadd) (1546 - 1623) was an English diplomat and administrator. He served as a special diplomatic agent for Elizabeth I of England. She sent him to France to collect papers which were used to convict her sister, Queen Mary. Waad also carried out the questioning and interrogations of political prisoners, often using torture to get the answers. He was involved in questioning Sir Walter Raleigh, members of the Gunpowder Plot, and the Essex rebellion among others.

[[Carlos Romero Barceló]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from urinary tract infection, United States senators, Governors of Puerto Rico, People from San Juan, Puerto Rico

Carlos Antonio Romero Barceló (September 4, 1932 – May 2, 2021) was a Puerto Rican politician. He served as the fifth Governor of Puerto Rico. He was the second governor to be elected from the New Progressive Party (PNP) and also Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico from 1993 to 2001.

On July 3, 2017, he was appointed by Governor Ricky Rosselló as Puerto Rico's first United States Shadow Senator to the U.S. Senate.

Romero Barceló was hospitalized in San Juan, Puerto Rico in March 2021 for sepsis and a urinary tract infection. He died a month later on May 2, 2021 at the age of 88.

[[Coronagraph]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy, Tools

A coronagraph is a telescope to see things around the Sun. The telescope uses a disk to block the bright surface of the sun, exposing bright objects around the sun to be visible to human eyes.

[[James Braid]]

CATEGORIES: 1795 births, 1860 deaths, Disease-related deaths in England, Neurologists, Scottish scientists

James Braid (1795 - 1860) was a Scottish surgeon and hypnotist.

He was born in Portmoak, Scotland. He died in of an illness in Chorlton-on-Medlock, Manchester.

[[Colin Dexter]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, English novelists, Writers from Lincolnshire

Norman Colin Dexter, OBE, (29 September 1930 – 21 March 2017) was an English crime writer. He was known for his Inspector Morse novels, which were written between 1975 and 1999 and adapted as a television series from 1987 to 2000.

In 2000 Dexter was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for services to literature. In 2001 he was awarded the Freedom of the City of Oxford.

Dexter died in his sleep at his home in Oxford on 21 March 2017, aged 86.

[[Sheila Mercier]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2019 deaths, Actors from Yorkshire, British military personnel of World War II, English television actors, People from Kingston upon Hull, English centenarians

Sheila Mercier (1 January 1919 – 4 December 2019) was an English actress. She was born in Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire, England. She played Annie Sugden in Emmerdale for over 20 years between 1972 and 1994, she made 3 further appearances in 1995, 1996 and 2009.

[[Buick Rendezvous]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, Buick automobiles, Sport utility vehicles

The Buick Rendezvous was a midsize crossover SUV. It was built by General Motors from 2002 to 2007. The Rendezvous was built on a short wheelbase of the GM U platform similar to the Pontiac Aztek. It slotted between the Rainier and the Terraza. From 2002 to 2006, it offered the option of front-wheel-drive or all-wheel drive. This was dropped for the final model year. The Rendezvous was later discontinued due to a drop in sales and replaced by the slightly larger Buick Enclave CUV which also replaced the Rainier and Terraza.

[[Stuck in the Middle (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American television series, American sitcoms, Disney Channel shows, Television series by Disney, English-language television programs, 2016 television series debuts, 2018 television series endings

Stuck in the Middle is a Disney Channel Original Series. It was created by Alison Brown and executive producer Linda Videtti Figueiredo. The series stars Jenna Ortega as Harley Diaz. The series aired on February 14, 2016. The main character of the show is one year older than Lincoln Loud from The Loud House.

[[Budō]]

CATEGORIES: Martial arts, Spirituality

Budō is a Japanese term describing modern Japanese martial arts. Budō, which means "the martial ways", has its origins in bushidō, "the way of the warrior". The budō arts include aikido, judo, jūkendō, Kendo, Kyūdō, naginata, shorinji kempo and sumo. In battle, budō teaches defense with the ideas of nonviolence and spiritual enlightenment. Originally designed for warfare, budō became a way of self-defense. From his book Meditations on Violence, Rory Miller wrote:

"It is better to avoid than to run; better to run than to de-escalate; better to de-escalate than to fight; better to fight than to die. Budō is based on the principles of Zen. The term budō is often used in another sense to refer to specific martial arts such as Akai Budo, Judo and Kendo.

[[Rearguard]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Military tactics

A rearguard is a part of a military force that protects the main force from attack from the rear. This is either during an advance or withdrawal. The term can also be used to describe forces protecting lines of communication behind an army. In modern armies the rearguard may be used to delay an enemy, to keep supply routes open or may also gather intelligence on an enemy approaching from the rear. One of the best recorded examples of a rearguard action is found in The Song of Roland. It is based on the historical events of the attack on the rearguard of Charlemagne's army in the Pyrenees. It was written in the 11th century, three hundred years after it happened.

[[The Song of Roland]]

CATEGORIES: Poems

The Song of Roland (La Chanson de Roland) is an epic poem based on the Battle of Roncevaux in 778 during the reign of Charlemagne. It is the oldest surviving major piece of French literature. It exists in different manuscript versions which shows its great popularity in from the 12th to 14th centuries.

The date of poem is somewhere between 1040 and 1115. An early version began around 1040. Additions and changes were made up until about 1115. The final text has about 4,000 lines of poetry. These are further divided into 298 poetic units called laisses. It was written to be performed, possibly to music. The author of the poem is unknown.

The epic poem is the oldest example of the chanson de geste. This was a literary form popular between the 11th and 15th centuries. It was all about legendary deeds and heroes.

[[Chumar]]

CATEGORIES: Territorial disputes of India, Jammu and Kashmir

Chumar is a place in the provences of Jammu and Kashmir, India. The area is claimed by both China and India. According to China's Ministry of Defence "the two countries’ border, to this day, has not been designated". The problem is that for centuries, the sparsely inhabited mountainous region existed as a buffer zone between empires. A border war broke out in 1962 that has to date killed thousands of soldiers. The tension between the two countries has come and gone but is now raised again.

[[Elżbieta Krzesińska]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2015 deaths, 1952 Summer Olympics, Disease-related deaths in Poland, Medalists at the 1956 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1960 Summer Olympics, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Polish Olympic medalists, Sportspeople from Warsaw

Elżbieta Maria Krzesińska née Duńska (November 11, 1934 – December 29, 2015) was a Polish track and field athlete from Warsaw.

She competed in the long jump. She competed for her native country at the 1956 Summer Olympics held in Melbourne, Australia where she won the gold medal in the Women's Long Jump.  She returned to the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome but failed to defend her title, finishing second behind Soviet Vera Krepkina.

Krzesińska died after a long-illness at her home in Warsaw at the age of 81.

[[Pavel Srníček]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2015 deaths, Czech footballers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in the Czech Republic

Pavel Srníček (10 March 1968 – 29 December 2015) was a Czech professional footballer. He played as a goalkeeper from 1990 to 2007, mainly for Newcastle United. 

He represented Sheffield Wednesday,  Portsmouth and West Ham United in England, and also played in Italy for Brescia and Cosenza, in Portugal for Beira-Mar, and in his native country for Banik Ostrava. After retiring, he worked as a goalkeeping coach for his own private school and for Sparta Prague.

Srníček played internationally for the Czech Republic from 1994 to 2001, earning a total of 49 caps. He was part of their squad that came runners-up at UEFA Euro 96, and was their first-choice goalkeeper when they came third at the 1997 FIFA Confederations Cup and contested UEFA Euro 2000.

On 4 January 2012, Sparta Prague confirmed the appointment of Srníček to their coaching staff.

Srníček suffered a massive heart attack while out jogging on 20 December 2015. He was put into an induced coma at a hospital in his native Ostrava. He died nine days later at the age of 47, when his life support was turned off due to irreversible brain damage.

[[Progeria]]

CATEGORIES: Genetic disorders, Syndromes

Progeria (pron), also called Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome and HGPS progeria syndrome is a very rare genetic disorder. Children born with progeria show symptoms which are like aging. This can include skin wrinkles and grey hair or baldness. Progeria is one of several progeroid syndromes. The word progeria comes from the Greek words "pro" (πρό), meaning "before" or "premature", and "gēras" (γῆρας), meaning "old age". 

It is very rare, only 1 child in every 8 million live births. People with progeria usually only live to their mid teens to early twenties. It is a genetic condition that occurs as a new mutation. It is rarely inherited, as people with the condition do not usually live long enough to have children. 

Scientists are studying progeria because it might reveal clues about the normal process of aging. Progeria was first described in 1886 by Jonathan Hutchinson. It was also described independently in 1897 by Hastings Gilford. The condition was later named Hutchinson–Gilford progeria syndrome.

[[Antony Booth]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in London, English television actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, Actors from Liverpool

Anthony George Booth (9 October 1931 – 25 September 2017), later known as Tony and Antony, was a retired English actor. He is best known for his role as Mike Rawlins in the BBC series Till Death Us Do Part.

Booth is the father-in-law of former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Tony Blair. Blair is married to Booth's daughter Cherie Booth.

Booth suffered a stroke in 2010. He was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in 2004. He died of the disease in London on 25 September 2017 at the age of 85.

[[Bob Cerv]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, New York Yankees players, Oakland Athletics players, Houston Astros players, Sportspeople from Nebraska

Robert Henry Cerv (May 5, 1925 – April 6, 2017) was a former American baseball player. Before his professional career, he was a collegiate baseball and basketball player at the University of Nebraska. He was born in Weston, Nebraska.

Cerv signed with the New York Yankees in 1950 and was a little-used reserve outfielder on the Yankee teams of the early 1950s. Cerv played for the Yankees from 1951 through 1956, again in 1960, and lastly from 1961 through 1962. He also played for the Kansas City Athletics (1957-1960), Los Angeles Angels (1961), and the Houston Colt .45s (1962).

Cerv died on April 6, 2017 in Blair, Nebraska from a stroke, aged 91.

[[Robin Williams (canoeist)]]

CATEGORIES: British sportspeople, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Robin Williams is a British slalom canoeist who competed in the 1980s. He won two medals in the C-2 team event at the ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships with a gold in 1981 and a bronze in 1983.

[[Florida A&M University]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 establishments in Florida, Colleges and universities in Florida, National Register of Historic Places, Tallahassee, Florida

Florida A&M University or FAMU, is a public, historically black university in Tallahassee, Florida. Its official name is Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University.  Florida A&M University was built on the highest of seven hills in Tallahassee.  It opened on October 3, 1887.

It is one of the largest historically black universities in the United States, in number of students. It awards bachelor's, master's and doctorate degrees.

FAMU's main campus is in Tallahassee. It is close to the State Capitol and the campus of Florida State University. The university also has campuses in Orlando, Miami, Jacksonville, Tampa and Crestview.

[[Frank Malzone]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Boston Red Sox players, California Angels players, Sportspeople from New York City

Frank James Malzone (February 28, 1930 – December 29, 2015) was an American baseball player. He was a former Major League Baseball third baseman and right-handed slugger who played for the Boston Red Sox (1955–65) and California Angels (1966). He was born in The Bronx, New York.

Malzone died in Needham, Massachusetts of natural causes at the age of 85.

[[Over and Over Again (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 songs

"Over and Over Again" is a song by English recording artist Nathan Sykes. The song was written by Sykes and was released in the United Kingdom on 20 November 2015 as the second single from his debut studio album. The song peaked to number 8 on the UK Singles Chart.

Sykes performed the song live on The X Factor on 22 November 2015.

[[Kim Yang-gon]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2015 deaths, North Korean politicians, Road accident deaths

Kim Yang-gon (김양건; 24 April 1942 – 29 December 2015) was a North Korean politician. He was a member of the ruling party Workers' Party of Korea (WPK). He served as head of relations with South Korea from 2007 until his death, under both Kim Jong-il and later Kim Jong-un. He was born in Anju, South Pyongan Province.

Kim died in a car accident on 29 December 2015, aged 73.

[[Rufous-tailed lark]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of India, Birds of Pakistan, Passeriformes

The rufous-tailed lark (Ammomanes phoenicura) is a passerine bird. It is native to India and northeast Pakistan.

[[Terpenoid]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds, Lipids, Biochemistry

Turpenoids, or isoprenoids, are a large group of organic compounds. They are built of five-carbon isoprene units put together  and modified in thousands of ways.

They are lipids, and are found in all classes of living things. They are the largest group of natural products. About 60% of natural products are terpenoids.

Plant terpenoids are often used for their scent. They are used in traditional herbal remedies. Terpenoids help the scent of eucalyptus, the flavors of cinnamon, cloves, and ginger, the yellow color in sunflowers, and the red color in tomatoes. Well-known terpenoids include citral, menthol, camphor, salvinorin A in the plant Salvia divinorum, the cannabinoids found in cannabis, ginkgolide and bilobalide found in Ginkgo biloba, and the curcuminoids found in turmeric and mustard seeds.

The steroids and sterols in animals are biologically produced from terpenoid precursors.

[[Bad Orb]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hesse, Spa towns in Germany

Bad Orb is a spa town located in Hesse, Germany.

[[Astrocyte]]

CATEGORIES: Cells, Nervous system

Astrocytes  are characteristic star-shaped glial cells in the brain and spinal cord. They are also known collectively as astroglia.

The proportion of astrocytes in the brain varies. Studies have found that the astrocyte proportion varies by region from 20% to 40% of all glia. 

Astrocytes do many things. They help the endothelial cells of the blood–brain barrier, provide nutrients to the nervous tissue, keep extracellular ions in balance. They also help repair the brain and spinal cord after traumatic injuries.

Research since the mid-1990s has shown that astrocytes release Ca2+ ions, and adjust brain functions. Such discoveries have made astrocytes an important area of research in neuroscience.

[[Natoli]]

Natoli is an Italian surname.

It may refer to:

[[Mangesh Padgaonkar]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2015 deaths, Disease-related deaths in India, Indian writers, Maharashtra, Poets

Mangesh Keshav Padgaonkar (Devanagari: मंगेश केशव पाडगांवकर; 10 March 1929 – 30 December 2015) was a Indian poet from Maharashtra, India. He was born on 10 March 1929 in Vengurla, Sindhudurg District in Maharashtra. 

Padgaonkar has 40 publications to his credit. He began writing at the age of 14. The United States Library of Congress has 31 of his publications in their collection. He has also translated works of Kabir and Surdas in Marathi along with Shakespeare's plays The Tempest, Julius Caesar and Romeo and Juliet. In 2008, his translation of the Bible was released.

Padgaonkar died in Mumbai from a short illness at the age of 86.

[[Joe Houston]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American saxophonists, American jazz musicians, American blues musicians, Musicians from Texas, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Musicians from Kansas City, Missouri

Joe Houston (July 11, 1926 – December 28, 2015) was an American tenor saxophonist. He played jazz and rhythm and blues. He was born in Bastrop, Texas. His career began in the 1940s in Kansas City, Missouri.

Houston formed his own band The Rockets, and moved to Los Angeles in 1952.  He scored his only two chart hit singles in 1952 with "Worry, Worry, Worry" and "Hard Time Baby" both of which peaked at #10 on Billboard's R&B singles chart.

Houston's musical career ended after he suffered a stroke in 2005. He died on December 28, 2015 in Long Beach, California, following a series of strokes, aged 89.

[[Apgar score]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine, Babies

The Apgar score is used in medicine.  It is a quick way of measuring how healthy a newborn baby is.

Virginia Apgar invented the Apgar score in 1952.  She was an anesthesiologist, and created the score to measure how babies were affected by anesthesia given to their mothers during childbirth.

Today, the Apgar score is very commonly used by doctors, nurses, midwives, emergency medical technicians (EMTs), and other medical professionals.  One of the reasons it is so popular is that doing an Apgar test is very quick.  It usually takes less than a minute, sometimes just seconds.

When an Apgar test is done, five simple things about the newborn baby are checked.  The newborn gets a score of 0, 1, or 2 on each of these give things.  The scores are added up, and the total is the newborn's Apgar score.

"Apgar" is the name of the woman who invented the Apgar scale.  But "APGAR" is also a backronym that stands for the things the Apgar scale checks.  These are Appearance, Pulse, Grimace, Activity, and Respiration.

[[Neheb]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs, Year of birth unknown, Year of death unknown

Neheb is listed on the Palermo Stone as a Predynastic ancient Egyptian king who ruled in the Lower Egypt. There is no other evidence of such ruler. Neheb may be a mythical king only remembered in unwritten stories, or may even be completely fictitious.

[[Doug Atkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, American football defensive ends, Cleveland Browns players, Chicago Bears players, New Orleans Saints players, Sportspeople from Tennessee

Douglas Leon Atkins (May 8, 1930 – December 30, 2015) was a former American football defensive end. He played for the Cleveland Browns, Chicago Bears and New Orleans Saints in the National Football League. He played college football at the University of Tennessee under legendary head coach Robert Neyland. He is a member of the College Football Hall of Fame and the Pro Football Hall of Fame. He was born in Humboldt, Tennessee. 

Atkins died in Knoxville, Tennessee on December 30, 2015 at the age of 85.

[[Jerzmanice-Zdrój]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Jerzmanice-Zdrój is a small village in Lower Silesia, Poland. The first time it appeared in sources in 1253 as Hermanstorph. The village administrator is Edward Janiec.

Jerzmanice-Zdrój was a health resort from 1881, when a doctor from the nearby town Złotoryja made a small place for sick people called "Hermsdorf Bad". This lasted until World War II. After the war, the health resort did not re-open.

[[Gino Marchetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Pennsylvania, American football defensive ends, American military personnel of World War II, Indianapolis Colts players, Sportspeople from West Virginia, Sportspeople from San Francisco, Sportspeople from Baltimore, Maryland, Sportspeople from Dallas, Texas, Businesspeople from San Francisco, Businesspeople from Texas

Gino John Marchetti (January 2, 1926 – April 29, 2019) was an American professional football player in the National Football League and businessman. A defensive end, he played in 1952 for the Dallas Texans and from 1953 to 1966 for the Baltimore Colts.

Marchetti was born in Smithers, West Virginia. He was raised in Antioch, California.  Marchetti studied at Modesto Junior College and at the University of San Francisco.

In 2004, Marchetti was voted to the East-West Shrine Game Hall of Fame.

Marchetti died of problems caused by pneumonia on April 29, 2019 at a hospital in Paoli, Pennsylvania at the age of 93.

[[Mekh]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs, Year of birth unknown, Year of death unknown

Mekh is listed on the Palermo Stone as a Predynastic ancient Egyptian king who ruled in the Lower Egypt. There is no other evidence of such ruler. Mekh may be a mythical king who is only remembered in unwritten stories, or may even be completely fictitious.

[[Reign]]

CATEGORIES: Royalty and nobility

A reign is the period of time that a monarch (a king, queen, emperor, etc.) rules over a country. It can also be the period of time that a spiritual leader rules in a particular office. For example, the reign of a pope, dalai lama, patriarch etc. A reign can also be used for an office or championship. In many cases a reign lasts until the monarch (or leader) resigns, dies, or is removed. A monarch's reign was sometimes used to mark time officially. In Anglo-Saxon England for example, many royal documents were dated by the regnal year of the king. This lasted until about the 10th century.

== Current Longest Reigning Monarchs == 

Some of the longest reigning current monarchs are:

Some of the longest reigning monarchs of all time are:

[[Double Falcon]]

CATEGORIES: Predynastic Pharaohs, Year of birth unknown, Year of death unknown

Double Falcon (also possibly Dju and Nebwy) was a Predynastic pharaoh of Lower Egypt belonging to Dynasty 0. The exact timeline of his reign is unknown, although it is estimated to be during the 33rd century BCE. The length of his reign is unknown.

[[Alcohol withdrawal]]

CATEGORIES: Alcohol drinking habits, Diseases, Addiction

Alcohol withdrawal (also called alcohol withdrawal syndrome) is medical problem. It is a set of symptoms that can happen when a person who has drunk alcohol for a long time stops drinking. It can also happen when a person starts drinking less than they used to.

Alcohol withdrawal can be very dangerous. In the worst cases, it can even kill a person. This is why it is dangerous for people who drink a lot to stop drinking without talking to a doctor first.

[[Pilot Butte, Saskatchewan]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Canada, Settlements in Saskatchewan, 1882 establishments, 1880s establishments in Canada

Pilot Butte is a town in Saskatchewan, Canada. It has over 2,100 people living in it. Most people live in town but drive into the nearby city Regina to work. The town got its name after the hill (or butte) that it surrounds. Pilot Butte is sometimes known as the "Sand Capital of Canada" because of all of the sand and gravel it has. The Pilot Butte Storm are a junior ice hockey team that play in Pilot Butte.

[[Basidium]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi

A basidium (plural basidia) is a microscopic type of spore-producing cell found on certain fungi. Most often the basidia are elongated and club  shaped. But there is variation in the shape. A basidium usually bears four sexual spores called basidiospores.

[[Comedic genre]]

CATEGORIES: Comedy, Genres

Comedy may be divided into many genres. The genre may depend on the source of humor, how the joke is told, and context.

[[Cocaine withdrawal]]

CATEGORIES: Addiction

Cocaine withdrawal happens when a person who uses a lot of cocaine stops using cocaine.  It can also happen when a person who uses a lot of cocaine starts using less cocaine than they did before.

Cocaine (also called coke) is a powerful stimulant.  It is an illegal drug outside of hospital usage.  It makes people feel very happy, talkative, energetic, and not want to eat as much food.

[[Naloxone]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Addiction

Naloxone (often called Narcan), is a medication.  It is used to reverse the effects of opioid painkillers, especially when a person has overdosed on opioids.  Examples of opioids include: 

These painkillers are central nervous system depressants.  This means they slow down certain areas of the brain.  If a person takes too many opiates, this can shut down the part of the brain that controls breathing.  The person may become unable to breathe and die.

When a person has taken too much of one of these painkillers, naloxone can reverse the painkillers' effects and save the person's life.

Naloxone may be mixed into the same pill as an opioid painkiller to decrease the risk of misuse. 

When given intravenously (into a needle placed into a vein), naloxone works within two minutes.  When injected into a muscle, it works within five minutes. The medication may also be shot up the nose. 

The effects of naloxone last about half an hour to an hour.  Since most opioids last longer than naloxone, a person may need several doses of naloxone to fight the effects of an overdose.

[[Pulmonary edema]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Pulmonology

Pulmonary edema (pulmonary oedema in British English) is fluid in the lungs ("Pulmonary" means "lungs"; "edema" means "swelling" or "fluid"). Normally, the lungs fill with air when a person breathes in. From the alveoli in the lungs, oxygen goes into the blood. The blood then carries oxygen to the entire body. Every part of the body needs oxygen to survive.

When a person has fluid in their lungs (pulmonary edema), there is not enough space left for air to get into the lungs. The person will not be able to breathe in as much air. This means not as much oxygen will get into the blood, and the body will not get the oxygen it needs.

[[Armand Hammer United World College of the American West]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in the United States, New Mexico, 1982 establishments in the United States

Armand Hammer United World College of the American West (UWC-USA) is an independent boarding school for students in high school in Montezuma, New Mexico, USA. UWC-USA was opened in 1982.  Classes take place in a historic hotel and students live in buildings nearby.  It is branch of an international school called United World College. UWC-USA is a high school that focuses on active learning and a worldwide community. People from all over the world study at this college. There are 200 students at the school in grades 11 and 12. 

[[Serekh]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Egypt

A serekh was an important type of heraldic crest used in Ancient Egypt.

[[Dwight Gayle]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Sportspeople from London, English footballers, Arsenal F.C. players, Crystal Palace F.C. players, Premier League players

Dwight Gayle (born 17 October 1990) is an English footballer who plays for Newcastle United as a striker. He started his career at Arsenal in their academy, a team for their very young players. He had played for Dagenham & Redbridge, Bishop's Stortford, Peterborough United, Crystal Palace and West Bromwich Albion.

[[Tuskegee syphilis experiment]]

CATEGORIES: Public health, Research methods

The Tuskegee Syphilis Experiment (/tʌsˈkiːɡiː/) was a clinical study. The study was done between 1932 and 1972 by the United States Public Health Service. Its goal was to study how syphilis progressed (got worse) if it was not treated. The study's subjects (the people who were being studied) were poor African American sharecroppers. They were told that they were receiving free health care from the U.S. government.

This experiment is infamous because none of the men being studied were told that they had syphilis.  Even after the 1940s, when doctors realized that penicillin could cure syphilis, the men were not given this cure, or any other treatment. The men were not told that they were not getting real treatment, or that a cure was available. This study raised many important questions about medical ethics.

[[2015–16 UEFA Champions League]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA Champions League seasons, 2015 in association football, 2016 in association football

The 2015-16 UEFA Champions League was the 61st season of Europe's premier club football tournament organised by UEFA. It is the 24th season since it was renamed from the European Champion Clubs' Cup to the UEFA Champions League.

The 2016 UEFA Champions League Final was played at the San Siro in Milan, Italy. Barcelona were the defending champions but Real Madrid won the tournament in penalties over Atlético Madrid.

[[Howard Davis, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American boxers, Sportspeople from New York City

Howard Edward Davis, Jr. (February 14, 1956 – December 30, 2015) was an American amateur and professional boxer. He was born in Glen Cove, New York, but raised in Long Island, New York.

After being inspired by a movie about Muhammad Ali, Davis began his amateur career in boxing. He won the 1976 Olympic gold medal one week after his mother died. He was also awarded the "Val Barker Trophy at the Olympics.

He became professional after the Olympics and went on to a professional record of 36–6–1 with 14 knockouts. He retired in 1996. After retirement he became a trainer. Eventually he worked as boxing director at American Top Team in Coconut Creek, Florida, where he trained both amateur and professional boxers and MMA fighters. He was also a motivational speaker and a musician.

Davis, Jr. died on December 30, 2015 from lung cancer in Plantation, Florida at the age of 59.

[[Ian Murdock]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2015 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, German engineers, Engineers from California, American computer scientists, Scientists from San Francisco, People from Konstanz

Ian Murdock (28nbspApril 1973 – 28nbspDecember 2015) was a German-born American software engineer. He was known for being the founder of the Debian project and Progeny Linux Systems, a commercial Linux company. He was born in Konstanz, Germany.

Murdock died on 28 December 2015 from unknown causes in San Francisco, California at the age of 42. Details surrounding his death have not been released. The last tweets at his Twitter account described violent encounters with police. It was reported that he declared an intention to commit suicide over Twitter, but there is as of now no public record of such a tweet. It was reported that police officer found Murdock drunk and that he did not appear suicidal.

[[Lester Piggott]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, English sportspeople, People from Berkshire, Equestrians

Lester Keith Piggott (born 5 November 1935) is a retired English professional jockey. With 4,493 career wins, including nine Epsom Derby victories, he is widely regarded as one of the greatest flat racing jockeys of all time.

He is known as "The Long Fellow". He was known for his competitive personality, keeping himself thirty pounds under his natural weight, and on occasion not sparing the whip on horses such as Nijinsky. Piggott regarded Sir Ivor as the easiest to ride of the great winners.

[[Murray Walker]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2021 deaths, English journalists, Writers from Birmingham, Sportspeople from Birmingham, Deaths from lymphoma

Graeme Murray Walker (10 October 1923 – 13 March 2021), known as Murray Walker, was an English Formula One motorsport commentator and journalist. For most of his career he worked for the BBC, but when it lost the contract for Formula One coverage to ITV, he continued  commentating after the change of broadcaster.

Walker was born Graeme Murray Walker in Hall Green, Birmingham, Warwickshire on 10 October 1923.

Walker was diagnosed with lymphoma in 2013. He died on 13 March 2021 in Fordingbridge, Hampshire at aged 97.

[[Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol]]

CATEGORIES: Alcohol drinking habits, Addiction, Medical tests

The Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol (often called CIWA or CIWA-Ar (an updated version)), is a scale used to measure alcohol withdrawal symptoms. The scale lists ten common symptoms of alcohol withdrawal.  Based on how bad a person's symptoms are, each of these is assigned a number.  All ten numbers are added up to make one final score.  The highest possible score is 67.  Higher scores are a sign of more severe alcohol withdrawal:

The CIWA is used not just to measure how bad withdrawal symptoms are, but also to guide decisions about what treatments to give, like when to give benzodiazepines.

[[Sandy Gall]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Scottish journalists, Scottish television presenters

Henderson Alexander "Sandy" Gall, CMG, CBE (born 1 October 1927), is a Scottish journalist, author, and former ITN news presenter. His career as a journalist has lasted more than 50 years.

Gall was born in Penang, Malaysia. He studied at the Aberdeen University.

[[Doug Ellis]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2018 deaths, English businesspeople, People from Cheshire

Sir Herbert Douglas "Doug" Ellis, OBE (3 January 1924 – 11 October 2018), was an English entrepreneur. He was known as the former chairman of Aston Villa Football Club. Ellis was knighted in the 2012 New Year Honours for charitable services.

Ellis died on 11 October 2018 at the age of 94.

[[Prunella Scales]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, People with Alzheimer's disease, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from Surrey

Prunella Scales (born Prunella Margaret Rumney Illingworth; 22 June 1932) is an English actress. She is best known for her role as Basil Fawlty's wife Sybil in the BBC comedy Fawlty Towers and her BAFTA award-nominated role as Queen Elizabeth II in  A Question of Attribution (Screen One, BBC 1991) by Alan Bennett.

In March 2014, her husband Timothy West revealed to the The Guardian that Scales was living with Alzheimer's disease.

[[John Noakes]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Spain, English television presenters, Actors from West Yorkshire

John Noakes  (6 March 1934 – 28 May 2017) was a British television presenter and personality. He was best known for co-presenting the BBC children's magazine programme Blue Peter in the 1960s and 1970s. He remains the show's longest-serving presenter for a total of 12 years.

Noakes was born in Halifax, West Yorkshire. He studied at the Rishworth School. 

On 30 June 2015, Noakes was reported missing from his home in Andratx, Majorca. His wife issued the alert to local police, who confirmed that Noakes had a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and had been living with the condition for some years. He was found the same day close to his home and taken to hospital, having fallen into some long grass "in the bottom of a storm drain".

Noakes died on 28 May 2017 at his home in Andratx, Majorca, Spain from complications of Alzheimer's disease at the age of 83.

[[Farm Sanctuary]]

CATEGORIES: Animal rights activists

Farm Sanctuary is an animal protection organization founded in 1986 by Gene Baur and Lorri Houston.  It is the leading shelter for farm animals in the United States. Farm Sanctuary not only provides shelter to injured or endangered farm animals but also supports animal rights. The organization has a history of fighting laws that help the factory farming industry. Farm Sanctuary currently owns and operates three animal shelters in these cities: Watkins Glen, New York, Los Angeles, California and Orland, California. Combined, these locations house over 1000 farm animals, including chickens, cows, sheep, goats, pigs, ducks, rabbits, and geese.  Various books about Farm Sanctuary have been written by co-founder Gene Baur. These include Farm Sanctuary: Changing Hearts and Minds About Animals and Food and Living the Farm Sanctuary Life: The Ultimate Guide to Eating Mindfully, Living Longer, and Feeling Better Every Day.  Both of these books reached bestseller lists and have received national attention.

[[Marvin Panch]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2015 deaths, American racecar drivers, Deaths from natural causes, Sportspeople from Wisconsin

Marvin Panch (May 28, 1926 – December 31, 2015) was a American stock car racing driver. Panch won the 1961 Daytona 500. He also won seventeen NASCAR Grand National - now Sprint Cup Series - events during a 17-year career. He was born in Menomonie, Wisconsin.

Panch died of natural causes after he was found in his car in Port Orange, Florida at the age of 89.

[[Brian Johns (businessman)]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Sydney, Australian businesspeople, Australian journalists, Writers from Queensland

Brian Francis Johns (6 May 1936 – 1 January 2016) was an Australian company director and journalist. He  was the managing director of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) from 1995 to 2000. Johns was born in Gordonvale, Queensland, Australia.

Johns died on 1 January 2016 in a hospital in Sydney, Australia after battling cancer at the age of 79.

[[Carolingian dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: Frankish rulers, Royal dynasties

The Carolingian dynasty was a Frankish noble family who ruled over a large part of western Europe from 751 to 987. They were a line of mayors, kings, and princes who succeeded the Merovingian dynasty. The most famous member of the family was Charlemagne. The dynasty was named after Charlemagne's grandfather, Charles Martel. He was a Mayor of the Palace of Austrasia and Neustria. The mayors of the palace were the real power behind the throne. 

Charles Martel (meaning "the hammer") left his wealth and power to his two sons, Pepin III and Carloman. In 771 Carloman died leaving his half to Pepin who became Mayor of the Palace. When the last of the Merovingian kings, Childeric III, was deposed by the Pope in Rome, Pepin was made king of the Franks. Pope Stephen III traveled to France and placed the crown on his head. Pepin left the kingdom to his two sons, Charles and Carloman.

Charles and his brother shared the kingdom for some time. Carloman then traveled to Rome and became a monk. Charles became the sole king. He then earned his name "Charles the Great" (Charlemagne) by defeating the Lombards, the Saxons, and the Avars. In 800 Charlemagne was crowned Holy Roman Emperor by Pope Leo III. The dynasty was passed down to his son, Louis the Pious and to his grandsons. By the time Louis inherited the kingdom the Carolingian Empire had already started to decline. By the end of the 9th century it came to an end. With the collapse of the empire the dynasty came to an end.

[[Pierre-Marie Rudelle]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2015 deaths, Artists from Paris, French painters

Pierre-Marie Rudelle (18 June 1932 – 28 December 2015) was a French trompe-l'œil painter. He painted First Lady of the United States Jacqueline Kennedy a pair of doors in her dressing room in the White House. He also worked for Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and Pamela Harriman. He was born in Paris.

Rudelle died on 28 December 2015 in Paris, aged 83.

[[Gabriel Tambon]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2015 deaths, French mayors, People from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur

Gabriel Tambon (23 March 1930 – 27 December 2015) was a French politician for the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP). He served as the Mayor of Le Castellet, Var from 1965 until his death. He was born in Castellet, Vaucluse.

Tambon died on 27 December 2015 at the age of 85.

[[Åge Nordkild]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2015 deaths, Norwegian politicians

Åge Nordkild (19 September 1951 – 28 December 2015) was a Norwegian Sami politician. He was a member of the Norwegian Sami Association. He held many places in the Sami Parliament from 2001 to 2005 and 2009 to 2013. He was born in Narvik.

Nordkild died on 28 December 2015 at the age of 64.

[[Fred Tuttle]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2003 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, Actors from Vermont, Politicians from Vermont, US Republican Party politicians

Frederick Herman "Fred" Tuttle (July 18, 1919 – October 4, 2003) was an American dairy farmer, actor and 1998 candidate for the U.S. Senate from the state of Vermont for the Republican Party. He was born in Tunbridge, Vermont. He appeared in movies such as Nosey Parker and Man with a Plan.

Tuttle ran against senator Patrick Leahy in the Vermont senate elections. He lost in a landslide to Leahy. Tuttle was described by Senator Leahy as "the distilled essence of Vermonthood". He was thought by many to be an example of the "everyman".

Tuttle died of a heart attack in his farm in Tunbridge, Vermont at the age of 84.

[[Bob Richards]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, American Olympic bronze medalists, American Olympic gold medalists, American track and field athletes, Medalists at the 1948 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1952 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1956 Summer Olympics, People from Champaign, Illinois, Sportspeople from Illinois

Robert Eugene "Bob" Richards (born February 20, 1926), nicknamed the "Vaulting Vicar" or the "Pole Vaulting Parson" in his competitive days, was an American athlete who was known for pole vaulting in the Olympics. He competed in the 1948 (where he won a bronze medal), 1952 (gold medal), and 1956 Summer Olympics (gold medal) as a pole vaulter, and as a decathlete in 1956.

Richards was born in Champaign, Illinois. He studied at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign.

[[Barbara Byrd-Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American educators, American fraudsters, Civil servants, Criminals from New York City, Criminals from Chicago, Criminals from Michigan, Criminals from Ohio, Democrats (United States), People from Brooklyn, People from Cleveland, Ohio, People from Detroit, Michigan

Barbara Byrd–Bennett (born April 12, 1951) is an American educator. 

[[Forrest Claypool]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American educators, Civil servants, Politicians from Chicago, US Democratic Party politicians

Forrest Claypool (born 1958 in Vandalia, Illinois) is an American politician. He was the superintendent of the Chicago Public Schools system serving from the resignation of Barbara Byrd-Bennett in June 2015 until his own resignation in December 2017.

Before becoming superintendent, Claypool has held several positions in the governments of Chicago, Cook County, and the State of Illinois. He was the Democratic member of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chief of Staff to Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, and President of the Chicago Transit Authority.

In 2007–2008, Claypool served as a key member of Barack Obama campaign's media team, in his capacity as a longtime partner of David Axelrod.

[[David Axelrod]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, American political writers, American political commentators, Writers from New York City

David M. Axelrod (born February 22, 1955) is an American political operative and analyst. He is best known as the Chief Strategist for Barack Obama's presidential campaigns.  After Obama's election, Axelrod was appointed as Senior Advisor to the President. Axelrod left the White House position in early 2011 and became the Senior Strategist for Obama's successful re-election campaign in 2012.

He now serves as the director of the non-partisan Institute of Politics at the University of Chicago and is a Senior Political Commentator for CNN. In April 2014 it emerged that Axelrod had been appointed senior strategic adviser to the British Labour Party to assist party leader Ed Miliband in the run-up to the 2015 general election.

[[Roslyn, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Roslyn (ˈ ROZ) is a village in Nassau County, New York, on the North Shore of Long Island. As of the United States 2010 Census, the village population was 2,770. Roslyn was once called Hempstead Harbor, but its name changed to Roslyn on September 7, 1844.

[[Erik De Vlaeminck]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2015 deaths, Belgian cyclists, Disease-related deaths in Belgium, Doping cases in cycling, People from East Flanders, People with Alzheimer's disease, People with Parkinson's disease, Tour de France cyclists

Erik De Vlaeminck (23 March 1945 – 4 December 2015) was a Belgian cyclist. He was a recording-winning cyclo-cross world-champion seven times (in 1966, 1968, 1969, 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973). He was born in Eeklo. He was the brother of Roger De Vlaeminck.

Later in life, De Vlaeminck had Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. He died in Eeklo on 4 December 2015, aged 70.

[[Carrier's constraint]]

CATEGORIES: Tetrapods, Respiratory system

Carrier's constraint is an observation about air-breathing vertebrates which flex their bodies sideways when moving. They find it very difficult to move and breathe at the same time. The sideways flexing expands one lung and compresses the other, shunting stale air from lung to lung instead of expelling it completely to make room for fresh air.

It was named, by English paleontologist Richard Cowen, after David R. Carrier, who wrote his observations on the problem in 1987.

Many amphibia and reptiles can and do move very fast over short distances. They do it by moving without breathing, which builds up an "oxygen debt". Humans sometimes do this when running very quickly. 100-metre sprinters do not breathe during a race. They collapse and recover afterwards. Many reptiles and amphibians are ambush predators, which fits that kind of life quite well. There is no reptile or amphibian equivalent to dogs or deer, with their huge capacity for running long distances. 

There are, however, some reptiles which get round the Carrier constraint. Snakes, for example have only one lung. And, of course, dinosaurs were bipedal to start with, and most groups stayed bipedal to the end. Lizards run in short bursts with brief pauses. Carrier was able to show that they breathed in the pauses.

[[2015 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in association football, Campeonato Brasileiro Série A

The 2015 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A (officially the Brasileirão Chevrolet 2015 for sponsorship reasons) was the 59th edition of the Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, the top-level of professional football in Brazil. After winning twice in a row in the 2013 and 2014 seasons, Cruzeiro came in defending their title as the Brazilian football champions. Corinthians won the title.

[[Islamabad United]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket clubs, Islamabad, Pakistan Super League, 2015 establishments in Pakistan

Islamabad United (اسلام‌آباد یونئٹڈ) is one of the six teams which plays in the Pakistan Super League (PSL). The team represents the city of Islamabad and was founded in 2015. It is owned by Ali Naqvi and Amna Naqvi (Leonine Global Sports). Misbah-ul-Haq is the captain of Islamabad United, while the head coach is Dean Jones.

[[Karachi Kings]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket clubs, Karachi, Pakistan Super League, 2015 establishments in Pakistan

Karachi Kings (کراچی کنگز; ڪراچي ڪنگز) is one of the six teams which plays in the Pakistan Super League (PSL). The team represents the city of Karachi and was founded in 2015. It is owned by the Salman Iqbal (ARY Group). Imad Wasim is the captain of Karachi Kings, while the head coach is Mickey Arthur.

[[Lahore Qalandars]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket clubs, Lahore, Pakistan Super League, 2015 establishments in Pakistan

Lahore Qalandars (Urdu/لاهور قلندرز) is one of the six teams which plays in the Pakistan Super League (PSL). The team represents the city of Lahore and was founded in 2015. It is owned by Fawad Rana (Qatar Lubricants Company Limited (QALCO)). Brendon McCullum is the captain of Lahore Qalandars, while the head coach is Aqib Javed.

[[Peshawar Zalmi]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket clubs, Peshawar, Pakistan Super League, 2015 establishments in Pakistan

Peshawar Zalmi (پشاور زلمی; پېښور زلمي) is one of the six teams which plays in the Pakistan Super League (PSL). The team represents the city of Peshawar and was founded in 2015. Zalmi in the name means Youth. It is owned by Javed Afridi (Haier Pakistan). Darren Sammy is the captain of Peshawar Zalmi, while the head coach is Mohammad Akram.

[[Quetta Gladiators]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket clubs, Quetta, Pakistan Super League, 2015 establishments in Pakistan

Quetta Gladiators (کوئٹہ گلیڈئیٹرز) is one of the six teams which plays in the Pakistan Super League (PSL). The team represents the city of Quetta and was founded in 2015. It is owned by Nadeem Omar (Omar Associates). Sarfaraz Ahmed is the captain of Quetta Gladiators, while the head coach is Moin Khan.

[[Gisella Perl]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1988 deaths, American autobiographers, American physicians, Holocaust survivors, Israeli Jews, Jewish American scientists, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Romanian Jews

Gisella Perl (December 10, 1907 – 1988) was a Jewish gynecologist who lived in Romania until 1944.  In 1944, World War II was happening, and the Nazis illegally invaded a part of Romania through Hungary.  The Nazis deported all of the Jewish people in the area and sent them to concentration camps.

[[Dal Richards]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, Bandleaders, Musicians from British Columbia, People from Vancouver

Dallas Murray "Dal" Richards, CM, OBC (5 January 1918 - 31 December 2015) was a Canadian big band leader. 

Richards led his band for many years in a weekly CBC Radio show broadcast nationally from the Panorama Roof Ballroom of the Hotel Vancouver.  2012, Richards also hosts a weekly one-hour show on radio station CISL. Richards is commonly thought to be the lyricist of "Roar You Lions Roar", the fight song of the BC Lions football club set to the music of "I Love the Sunshine of Your Smile".

[[Mike Oxley]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2016 deaths, United States representatives from Ohio, American lawyers, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Ohio

Michael Garver "Mike" Oxley (February 11, 1944 – January 1, 2016) was an American politician. He was a member of the Republican party. He served as a U.S. representative from the 4th congressional district of Ohio. He was born in Findlay, Ohio.

Oxley died of lung cancer in McLean, Virginia on January 1, 2016 at the age of 71.

[[Fazu Aliyeva]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Russia, Deaths from heart failure, Human rights activists, Russian journalists, Russian novelists, Russian poets, Soviet writers

Fazu Aliyeva (December 5, 1932, Iasi – January 1, 2016, Makhachkala, Russia) Avar speaking-Soviet-born Russian poet, novelist and journalist. She has made a significant role to the development of Dagestani in Russian literature. She is also known for being a human rights activist.

She was awarded two Orders of the "Badge of Honor" and two Orders of Friendship of Peoples, the Order of St. Andrew the Apostle in 2002. She was  awarded the Gold Medal of the Soviet Peace Fund and the Jubilee Medal of the World Peace Council, as well as honorary awards in several foreign countries.

Aliyeva was born in the Khunzakhsky District. She died in Makhachkala, Dagestan, Russia on January 1, 2016 from heart failure at the age of 83.

[[Joseph Brooks]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning composers, Academy Award winning composers, 1938 births, 2011 deaths, Suicides by asphyxiation, Suicides in the United States, American composers, American rapists, People from Manhattan, Movie directors from New York City, Movie producers from New York City, Screenwriters from New York City, Criminals from New York City

Joseph Brooks, born Joseph Kaplan (March 11, 1938 – May 22, 2011), and also known as Joe Brooks or Joey Brooks, was an American composer, director, producer, and screenwriter. He was born in Manhattan, New York.

He was a known writer of advertising jingles and wrote the hit songs "My Ship Is Comin' In", "If Ever I See You Again", and "You Light Up My Life", he later composed the hit movie of the same name which he also wrote, directed, and produced. He won a Grammy Award, Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for it.

In his later years he became the subject of an investigation after being accused of a series of casting-couch rapes. He was indicted in 2009. On May 22, 2011, before he could be brought to trial, Brooks committed suicide in his Upper East Side, Manhattan home by placing a bag over his head with a hose from a helium tank connected to it. He was 73 years old. On May 23, 2011, the medical examiner ruled that Brooks had committed suicide, citing asphyxia by helium.

[[John Patrick (dramatist)]]

CATEGORIES: Pulitzer Prize winners, 1905 births, 1995 deaths, Suicides by asphyxiation, Suicides in the United States, American playwrights, American screenwriters, Writers from Louisville, Kentucky

John Patrick (May 17, 1905 – November 7, 1995) was an American playwright and screenwriter. He won the Pulitzer Prize for his works in 1954. He was known for his works The Curious Savage (1950), The World of Suzie Wong (1960), and The Teahouse of the August Moon (1953). He was born in Louisville, Kentucky.

Patrick was found dead with a plastic bag over his head at his home in Delray Beach, Florida at the age of 90.

[[Horton Foote]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning writers, Emmy Award winners, Pulitzer Prize winners, 1916 births, 2009 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American playwrights, American screenwriters, Writers from Texas

Albert Horton Foote, Jr. (March 14, 1916 – March 4, 2009) was an American playwright and screenwriter. He was best known for his screenplays for the 1962 movei To Kill a Mockingbird and the 1983 movie Tender Mercies. He was born in Wharton, Texas. He won two Academy Awards (1962, 1983), a Pulitzer Prize (1995) and an Emmy Award (1997).

Foote died of natural causes in Hartford, Connecticut at the age of 92.

[[When We Were Young (Adele song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 songs, 2010s ballads, Adele songs, Soul songs

"When We Were Young" is a song by English singer-songwriter Adele from her third studio album, 25.  The song is the fourth track on the album.  It has reached the top fifteen on the US Billboard Hot 100.  The song reached the top ten in the UK and Canada.  It is the second single from 25, after "Hello".

The song is similar to "Hello" because it is influenced by soul music, except "When We Were Young" has a slower tempo.  It discusses the theme of youth and remembering the times of one's youth.

[[Barbara Rush]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1927 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Denver, Colorado

Barbara Rush (born January 4, 1927) is an American stage, movie, and television actress. She is known for her roles in It Came from Outer Space!, Bigger Than Life, When Worlds Collide, The Young Philadelphians, and Robin and the Seven Hoods. She also appeared on television shows such as Peyton Place, Batman, All My Children, 7th Heaven and Knight Rider. She won a Golden Globe Award in 1954.

[[Tension pneumothorax]]

CATEGORIES: Medical emergencies, Respiratory system

A tension pneumothorax is when air builds up inside the chest. So much air builds up that one or both lungs may collapse.  This causes serious breathing problems.  Also, the air in the chest pushes on the heart and other important parts of the body, and causes other serious problems.  If it is not treated quickly, a tension pneumothorax will kill a person.

[[Raoul Walsh]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1980 deaths, American movie actors, American movie directors

Raoul A. Walsh (March 11, 1887spaced ndashDecember 31, 1980) was an American film director and actor. He also founded the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. He was known for playing the part of John Wilkes Booth in the movie The Birth of a Nation (1915). He also directed films like The Big Trail (1930) starring John Wayne, High Sierra (1941) starring Ida Lupino and Humphrey Bogart, and White Heat (1949) with James Cagney and Edmond O'Brien.

[[Joanna Angel]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Actors from Brooklyn, Actors from New Jersey, American erotic dancers, American movie directors, American pornographic actors, Democrats (United States), Jewish American actors, Jewish American writers, Jewish screenwriters, Jewish sex industry people, Movie directors from New Jersey, Movie directors from New York City, Pornographic movie directors, Stage names, Writers from Brooklyn, Writers from New Jersey

Joanna Angel, born as Joanna Mostov, (born December 25, 1980) is an American alternative pornographic and mainstream actress, director, writer of adult movies, and former stripper.

[[Lasse Pöysti]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2019 deaths, Finnish movie actors, Finnish movie directors, Finnish stage actors, Finnish television actors, Finnish writers

Lasse Erik Pöysti (24 January 1927 – 5 April 2019) was a Finnish actor, director, theatre manager and writer. He has acted both in Finnish and Swedish language.

[[Flag of New Zealand]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, New Zealand

The flag of New Zealand was adopted in 1907. It has the Union Flag of the United Kingdom in the upper left quarter, and the Southern Cross on a blue ground. it picks up the country's position as an island in a southern ocean, and its British heritage.

There was a referendum going on to find a replacement flag in 2015. New Zealanders voted to keep the original flag and not change it.

[[Tove Jansson]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2001 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Finnish people, Swedish children's writers, People from Helsinki

Tove Marika Jansson (Finland ˈtuːve ˈjaːnsɔn; 9 August 1914 – 27 June 2001) was a Finnish-born novelist, painter, illustrator and comic strip author. For her contribution as a children's writer she received the Hans Christian Andersen Medal in 1966.

Jansson is best known as the author of the Moomin books for children. The first such book, The Moomins and the Great Flood, appeared in 1945, though it was the next two books, Comet in Moominland and Finn Family Moomintroll, published in 1946 and 1948 respectively, that brought her fame.

Jansson died in Helsinki, Finland from natural causes at the age of 86.

[[Multiple organ dysfunction syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Organ failure, Medical emergencies

Multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS), previously known as multiple organ failure (MOF), Total organ failure(TOF) or multisystem organ failure (MSOF), is when the organ function is acutely ill and the patient is required medical intervention to achieve homeostasis. It usually involves two or more organ systems.

The use of "multiple organ failure" or "multisystem organ failure" should be avoided since that phrase was based upon physiological parameters to determine whether or not a particular organ was failing.

[[Crested serpent eagle]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes, Birds of China, Birds of India, Birds of Indonesia, Birds of Pakistan, Least concern species

The crested serpent eagle (Spilornis cheela) is a medium-sized bird of prey. It is found in forested habitats across tropical Asia. It is found in a wide range across the Indian Subcontinent, Southeast Asia and East Asia. There are a number of variations and some authorities prefer to treat several of its subspecies as completely separate species. In the past, several species including the Philippine serpent eagle (S. holospila), Andaman serpent eagle (S. elgini) and South Nicobar serpent eagle (S. klossi) were treated as subspecies of the Crested serpent eagle.

[[Nimr al-Nimr]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2016 deaths, Executed people, Human rights activists, Muslims, People executed by decapitation, Religious leaders

Nimr Baqr al-Nimr (نمر باقر النمر‎‎; 1959 – 2 January 2016), better known as Sheikh Nimr, was a Saudi Shia Sheikh and human rights activist. He was a Sheikh from around 2008 until his death. He was one of the best known Shia clerics in Saudi Arabia. In July 2012, he was arrested by Saudi police and shot in the leg. He was put on trial for terrorism charges and sentenced to death in October 2014.

[[Scale insect]]

CATEGORIES: Hemiptera

The scale insects are small bugs of the order Hemiptera. They are the superfamily Coccoidea.  There are about 8,000 described species of scale insects. They are ectoparasites of plants, like most bugs. They sit on the outside of plants, stick their mouthparts inside, and suck up the plant sap.

Adult female scales usually do not move: they are permanently attached to the plant they have parasitized.  They secrete a waxy coating for defence. The coating makes them look like  fish scales, hence their common name.

Males and females are quite different form each other. This is sexual dimorphism. Female scale insects keep their juvenile shape even when sexually mature (a condition known as neoteny). Adult males usually have wings (depending on their species) but never feed, and die within a day or two.

The details of their reproductive systems vary greatly between species. Three types of hermaphroditism are known, and at least seven forms of parthenogenesis.

Their young, known as crawlers, lose the use of their legs if they are female, and stay put for life. Only the males keep their legs and use them in seeking females for mating.

[[Brihadeshwara Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Temples in India, Hindu temples, 11th century establishments in Asia, Establishments in India

Peruvudaiyar Kovil is a Hindu temple dedicated to Shiva, also called Rajarajesvaram temple  or Peruvudaiyār Kōvil temple. It is located on the south side of Kaveri river in Thanjavur in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is also known as Periya Kovil, RajaRajeswara Temple and Rajarajeswaram. It is one of the largest temples in India. Peruvudaiyaar Kovil is an example of Tamil architecture from the Chola period. It was built by Tamil King Raja Raja Chola I and completed in 1010 AD. The temple turned 1000 years old in 2010. The temple is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site known as the "Great Living Chola Temples", along with Brihadeeswarar Temple, Gangaikonda Cholapuram and Airavatesvara temple.

[[Emlyon Business School]]

CATEGORIES: Education in France, Lyon, Colleges and universities in the_People's Republic of China, Colleges and universities in India

Emlyon Business School is a French business school. It was founded in Lyon, France in 1872. The school also has campuses in Saint-Étienne, France, in Shanghai, China,  Bhubaneshwar and Mumbai in India. The newest campus opened in 2015 in Casablanca, Morocco. Emlyon is well-known for its entrepreneurnship academic degrees.

Emlyon is specialist in the fields of economics, social sciences and management. The Financial Times ranked it #14 in Europe.

[[Aloha (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 comedy-drama movies, 2015 romance movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Cameron Crowe

Aloha is a 2015 American romantic comedy-drama movie. It was directed by Cameron Crowe and it was produced by Cameron Crowe and Scott Rudin. Aloha was released on May 29, 2015.

The movie got negative reviews from critics. It has a 20% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Aloha was also a box office bomb and only made $26.3 million from its $37 million budget. The Hollywood Reporter estimated that the movies financial losses were close to $65 million by the time the movie ended its run in theatres.

The movie was criticized by Media Action Network for Asian-Americans for "whitewashing" the cast. Director Cameron Crowe said in a response: "I have heard your words and your disappointment, and I offer you a heart-felt apology to all who felt this was an odd or misguided casting choice. As far back as 2007, Captain Allison Ng was written to be a super-proud one quarter Hawaiian who was frustrated that, by all outward appearances, she looked nothing like one. A half-Chinese father was meant to show the surprising mix of cultures often prevalent in Hawaii. Extremely proud of her unlikely heritage, she feels personally compelled to over-explain every chance she gets. The character was based on a real-life, red-headed local who did just that." Emma Stone said that whitewashing was a problem in Hollywood and that she regretted being miscast.

[[Ardhendu Bhushan Bardhan]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2016 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Communist politicians, Deaths from stroke, Indian politicians

Ardhendu Bhushan Bardhan (25 September 1924 – 2 January 2016) was an Indian communist politician. He was the general secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI) from 1996 until 2012.

Bardhan was born in Barisal, Bengal Presidency, British India (now in Bangladesh). His wife died in 1986. They had two children.

Bardhan had a paralytic stroke in December 2015. He died on 2 January 2016 in New Delhi, aged 91.

[[Thanat Khoman]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2016 deaths, Centenarians, Civil servants, Deaths from respiratory failure, Asian diplomats, Thai politicians, World War II people

Thanat Khoman (also Thanad; ถนัด คอมันตร์; Thanat Khoman; May 9, 1914 – March 3, 2016) was a Thai former diplomat and politician. He was Foreign Minister from 1959 to 1971, chairman of the Democrat Party from 1979 to 1982, and Deputy Prime Minister from 1980 to 1982.

[[Richard F. Gordon Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2017 deaths, Apollo astronauts, American aviators, Businesspeople from Seattle, Washington, American chemists, American military people, Scientists from Seattle, Washington

Richard Francis "Dick" Gordon, Jr. (October 5, 1929 – November 6, 2017), (Capt, USN, Ret.), was an American former naval officer and aviator, chemist, test pilot, and NASA astronaut. He was one of only 24 people to have flown to the Moon, as the Command Module Pilot for the Apollo 12 mission. He was born in Seattle, Washington.

Gordon, Jr. died on November 6, 2017 at his home in San Marcos, California at the age of 88.

[[Alan Bean]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2018 deaths, Apollo astronauts, Scientists from Texas

Alan LaVern Bean (March 15, 1932 – May 26, 2018), (Capt, USN, Ret.), was an American former naval officer and aviator, aeronautical engineer, test pilot, and NASA astronaut. 

He was the fourth person to walk on the Moon. He was selected to become an astronaut by NASA in 1963 as part of Astronaut Group 3. He made his first flight into space aboard Apollo 12, the second manned mission to land on the Moon, at the age of thirty-seven years in November 1969.

Bean died at a hospital in Houston, Texas on May 26, 2018 from a short-illness at the age of 86.

[[Lewis Millett]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2009 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American military people, People from Maine

Lewis Lee Millett Sr. (December 15, 1920 – November 14, 2009) was an American military person. He was a United States Army officer who received the Medal of Honor during the Korean War for leading the last major American bayonet charge. Millett was born in Mechanic Falls, Maine. He later served in the Vietnam War as well. He retired from the Army in 1973.

Millett died in Loma Linda, California from congestive heart failure at the age of 88. He was buried with full military honors in Riverside National Cemetery in Riverside, California.

[[Gilbert Kaplan]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cancer, American journalists, American conductors, Businesspeople from New York City, Writers from New York City

Gilbert Edmund Kaplan (March 3, 1941 – January 1, 2016) was an American businessman, journalist and conductor. He was born in New York City, New York. He founded the magazine Institutional Investor in 1967. He was publisher of the magazine until 1990, and editor-in-chief for two more years, although he sold it in 1984.

Kaplan died of cancer on January 1, 2016 at the age of 74.

[[Gabrielle Anwar]]

CATEGORIES: English television actors, English movie actors, 1970 births, Living people

Gabrielle Anwar (born 4 February 1970) is an English actress. She played Margaret Tudor on The Tudors. She also played "The Tango Girl" in Scent of a Woman. She later played Fiona in the television series Burn Notice.

Anwar was born in Laleham, Surrey, England.

[[Ian Pieris]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Sri Lankan cricketers, People from Colombo

Ian Pieris (14 March 1933 – 1 January 2016) was a Sri Lankan first-class cricketer. He was born in Colombo, Sri Lanka. He was an important figure in Sri Lankan sports. He was a former president of Sri Lanka Cricket (1989, 1990-1991).

Pieris also had a long cricket career playing as a top-order batsman for St. Thomas' College and as a right-arm opening bowler for Singhalese Sports Club, Cambridge University and All-Ceylon. He retired from sports activities in 2003 due to health problems. 

Pieris died at the age of 82 in Colombo, Sri Lanka from a long illness.

[[Frances Cress Welsing]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American educators, American psychiatrists, Writers from Chicago

Frances Cress Welsing (Frances Luella Cress; March 18, 1935 – January 2, 2016) was an American afrocentrist and psychiatrist. She was born in Chicago, Illinois. Welsing is known for her views on white supremacy. According to Welsing, White people are the result of genetic mutation and are the children of Africans. She is the author of the well-known The Isis Papers (1991).

Welsing suffered a stroke on January 1, 2016. She was placed under critical condition at a Washington, D.C.-area hospital. Welsing died a few hours later on the morning of January 2, 2016. She was 80 years old.

[[A.S. Varese 1910]]

CATEGORIES: Italian football clubs, 2004 establishments in Italy, 2015 disestablishments in Europe, 21st century disestablishments in Italy

[[Steve Gohouri]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2015 deaths, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, Ivorian footballers

Lohoré Steve Ulrich Gohouri (8 February 1981 – December 2015), better known as Steve Gohouri, was an Ivorian professional footballer. He played as a defender from 1998 until his death. He played for Paris Saint-Germain, Vaduz, BSC Young Boys, Borussia Mönchengladbach, Wigan Athletic, Maccabi Tel Aviv and Bologna.

Gohouri was born in Treichville, Abidjan.

Gohouri went missing in December 2015 in Germany. He was found dead on 31 December 2015 in the river Rhine. His death was announced on 2 January 2016. He was 34.

[[Trypophobia]]

CATEGORIES: Phobias

Trypophobia is a fear of an irregular pattern of holes or bumps. 

Some people feel the holes are "disgusting and gross." Others feel nauseated and itchy, have panic attacks, sweat or feel their heart pound. It may be that some brain responses associate the holes with danger.

[[Roland Alpha Juno]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic musical instruments

Roland Alpha Juno is a series of synthesizer keyboards. They were made by the Roland Corporation from 1985 to 1986. Two main models were released: the Alpha Juno 1 (JU-1) (1985–1986) and the Alpha Juno 2 (JU-2) (1985–1986).

The JU-2 added one octave of notes and a slot for cartridges.

[[Decathlon]]

CATEGORIES: Events in athletics, Summer Olympic sports

A decathalon is a sporting event. It has ten track and field events. It consists of 4 runs, 3 jumps and 3 throws

The word decathalon comes from the Greek language. It has two parts; δέκα (déka, meaning "ten") and ἄθλος (áthlos, or ἄθλον, áthlon, meaning "feat").

[[Naan]]

CATEGORIES: Flatbreads

Naan bread is a type of bread made with flour. It is a flatbread that is baked in a tandoor. Naan bread often looks like a tear drop. It is often covered in herbs and spices such as garlic to change the taste.

Naan bread is made from basic bread ingredients like wheat flour, a leavening agent (either yeast, yogurt, baking powder, or all), salt, and butter or ghee. It also is made with yogurt and milk. The yogurt is what makes naan bread taste so much different than other kinds of bread.

[[Laundry]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing, Hygiene, Rooms

Laundry is the washing of clothing. Laundry is often done in a special room called a laundry room. Some shared homes have shared laundry rooms. Businesses that wash clothes are called laundromats or launderettes.

Laundry is done by washing with soap and water or detergent and water. The clothing is stirred roughly in the soapy water, and then moved to be rinsed in clean water. Washing can be done by hand or with a washing machine. The clothing is dried in a clothes dryer or on a clothesline. Sometimes after the clothes are dry, they are ironed or pressed.

[[Clothes dryer]]

CATEGORIES: Home appliances, Clothing

A clothes dryer or tumble dryer is a machine that is used to remove water from clothing after it is washed. A dryer has a rotating cylinder called a "drum' that holds clothes and lets hot air in to evaporate the water. Then the heated air and water vapor exit through a vent. The drum spins so that the clothing stays apart making the hot air work better. Dryers can use electricity to both operate the machine and create heat to dry the clothes. Others use natural gas to create the heat.

Ventless clothes dryers work differently since they cannot vent the hot air. The two types of ventless dryers are condensation dryers and heat pump dryers. Condensation dryers heat the air the same as a regular dryer, but use a heat exchanger. The air is cooled and the water goes down a drain. A heat pump dryer works similarly but passes the air a heat pump. The water either goes down the drain or into a collection tank.

[[Storyboard]]

CATEGORIES: Movies, Animation, Graphics

A storyboard is a way of planning animated films, movies, or television shows. A storyboard shows examples of what the artist wants to make before they are animated. It also lets artists organize their stories before they start to make the animation. Storyboarding, in the form it is known today, was developed at Walt Disney Productions. It was first used in the 1928 animated short film, Plane Crazy." The 1939 movie Gone with the Wind was the first to be completely storyboarded.

[[Margaret Tudor]]

CATEGORIES: House of Tudor, House of Stuart, Kings and Queens consort of Scotland, 1489 births, 1541 deaths, Regents

Margaret Tudor (28 November 1489 – 18 October 1541) was the wife of James IV of Scotland. She was Queen Consort of Scotland from 1503 until James IV died in 1513. After that, she was regent for their son James V. Margaret and James IV were grandparents of Mary, Queen of Scots.

Margaret was born at Westminster Palace. She was the oldest surviving daughter of Henry VII of England and Elizabeth of York.

In 1514, Margaret married Archibald Douglas, 6th Earl of Angus. Margaret and Douglas were grandparents of Lord Darnley, the second husband of Mary, Queen of Scots.  Margaret's great-grandson, King James VI of Scotland, became the king of England and Ireland after Elizabeth I of England died in 1603.

[[Byzantine calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars, Byzantine Empire

The Byzantine calendar was a calendar used by the Eastern Orthodox Church from the year 691 A.D. to 1728. It was also used by the Byzantine empire from 988 A.D. to 1453, when the empire fell, and by Russia from 988 A.D. to 1700. The Byzantine calendar is like the Julian calendar, but the year starts on 1 September instead of 1 January. Year one of the Byzantine calendar is from 1 September, 5509 B.C. to 31 August, 5508 B.C.

[[Loopback]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

The loopback address is a computing term that is a special IP address of a computer's ethernet network. It is used to allow software on a computer to send information to the same computer using the TCP/IP stack. The special IP address is known as 127.0.0.1 (IPv4) or 0:0:0:0:0:0:0:1 (::1, IPv6).

[[Dryer]]

A dryer can be:

[[File allocation table]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

A file allocation table (FAT) is a way that computers look up stored data on a storage device. These include floppy disks, USB flash drives, SD cards and other high capacity storage devices. 

A FAT is a list of clusters that show where a computer file is stored. These clusters are not necessarily right next to each other but can be scattered over the disk or storage medium. The FAT is always located in the first few clusters of a storage device.There are always two identical copies, one being a backup of the other.

The FAT file system is a legacy file system that is both simple and robust. It works well even in lightweight uses. But it cannot deliver the same speed, reliability and scalability as some modern file systems. It is, however, supported for compatibility reasons by nearly all currently developed operating systems for personal computers. It is also supported by many mobile devices and embedded systems. That makes it a well suited format for data exchange between computers and devices of almost any type and age from 1981 up to the present.

[[Cheque]]

CATEGORIES: Accounting, Banks, Commerce, Currency, Documents, Legal terms, Money, Trade

A cheque (or check) is a paper used to give money from one person or business to another person or business. To the person getting the cheque, it is a paper that allows them to go to a bank and get money. To the person writing the cheque, it is a promise to pay the bank that is giving the money to the person who turned the cheque in.

Cheques must be written to a person or business. A cheque that is not written to anyone can be very bad because if it is lost, anyone who finds it can get the money. A cheque that is written to a person but does not have the amount of money written is a blank cheque.

Cheques have been used since over a thousand years ago. However, they became popular in the 20th century for paying money without using cash.

[[Michel Delpech]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Ile-de-France, Cancer deaths in France, Deaths from throat cancer, French movie actors, French singers, French songwriters, Musicians from Ile-de-France

Jean-Michel Delpech (26 January 1946 – 2 January 2016), better known as Michel Delpech, was a French singer-songwriter and actor. He began his career in 1964. He released thirteen albums and over 50 singles. He appeared in the movie The Beloved (2011).

Delph was born in Courbevoie, Hauts-de-Seine. He was married to Chantal Simon until their divorce in 1976. He later married Geneviève Garnier-Fabre in 1985. He had three children.

Delph died from throat cancer on 2 January 2016 in Puteaux. He was 69.

[[Gisela Mota Ocampo]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2016 deaths, Mayors, Mexican politicians, Murders by firearm

Gisela Raquel Mota Ocampo (13 March 1982 – 2 January 2016) was a Mexican politician. She was a member of the Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD). She was the mayor of Temixco from 1 January 2016 until her death the next day. She was born in Morelos, Temixco.

Mota Ocampo was shot dead at her home on 2 January 2016 in Pueblo Viejo, aged 33.

[[City of Bones]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy books, 2007 books

City of Bones is the first novel of Cassandra Clare. It was first published March 27, 2007 in United States by Simon & Schuester, who publishes her other works as well. This is the first book of her main series The Mortal Instruments.

[[Marcel Barbeau]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, Canadian painters, Order of Canada, People from Montreal

Marcel Christian Barbeau OC OQ (February 18, 1925 – January 2, 2016) was a Canadian artist. His best known works are Fenêtre sur l'avenir and Fenêtre sur l'avenir, both in Montreal.

Barbeau was born in Montreal, Quebec. He studied with Paul-Émile Borduas. In 1995, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. He was a member of the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts. He had two children. Barbeau died on January 2, 2016 at the age of 90.

[[Esperanto alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabets, Esperanto

The Esperanto alphabet is the alphabet which is used to write the Esperanto language. It has 28 (twenty-eight) letters.

The Esperanto alphabet is based on the Roman alphabet (which the English alphabet is also based on). Unlike the English alphabet, it does not have the letters q, w, x or y, but it has 6 (six) letters that use a diacritic (a special mark above a letter): ĉ, ĝ, ĥ, ĵ, ŝ and ŭ.

[[Bradycardia]]

CATEGORIES: Heart disease

Bradycardia (also called bradyarrhythmia) is a slow heart rate.  In adults, bradycardia is defined as a heart rate that is under 60 beats per minute (bpm) while the person is resting.  Bradycardia is a type of cardiac arrhythmia.

There are many types of bradycardia.  Some are caused by problems with the heart.  Bradycardia can also be caused by medicines, drugs, and many other things.

[[Matt Hobden]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, 2016 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Accidental deaths in the United Kingdom, English cricketers, People from Eastbourne, Sportspeople from Sussex

Matthew Edward "Matt" Hobden (27 March 1993 – 2 January 2016) was an English cricketer. He was a right-handed batsman and a right-arm fast-medium bowler. He played for Cardiff MCCU (2012–2013) and Sussex (2013–2016).

Hobden was born in Eastbourne, East Sussex. He was educated at Millfield School and Eastbourne College.

Hobden died after accidentally falling on 2 January 2016 in Forres, Scotland. He was 22.

[[Shigeji Kaneko]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Boxers, Deaths from progressive supranuclear palsy, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Japanese sportspeople, People from Niigata Prefecture

Shigeji Kaneko (金子繁治, 13 August 1931 – 2 January 2016) was a Japanese featherweight boxer during the 1950s. He fought Gabriel "Flash" Elorde four times, winning them all. He was also a boxing promoter from the 1980s until the early 2000s. He was born in Tsubame, Niigata.

Shigeji died from progressive supranuclear palsy on 2 January 2016 in Tokyo. He was 84.

[[Precision (numbers)]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In mathematics, precision describes the level of exactness in a number's digits, such as number 54.6 having precision 1 (one decimal digit). A number with end zeroes ("00") has a negative precision, such as 500 having precision -2, or 4,000 as precision -3. A whole number (not ending in "0") has precision 0.

The level of precision differs from the word "accuracy" of a number, which means the correctness or truth of a number as used to describe an item or count.

[[Acid2]]

CATEGORIES: Computers, Web browsers, Web design

The Acid2 test is a test of web browsers to see if they can show parts of the internet correctly. It uses CSS and HTML to put things in the right places. It uses the PNG format for the images it uses in the test. A company's web browser that works with the Acid2 test is able to show most of the internet correctly and is a modern web browser.

[[Folding@home]]

CATEGORIES: Research organizations in the United States, Medicine, Computing

Folding@Home is a distributed computing project that helps doctors at Stanford University learn about and cure diseases. When parts of the human body do not work right, they make people sick. Folding@Home looks at the parts called proteins. When these proteins do not work right, they can make people sick with things like Alzheimer's, Mad Cow disease, and many types of cancer.

The project uses the idle processing resources of thousands of personal computers owned by volunteers who have installed the software on their systems. Instead of using an expensive supercomputer many user's computers can do the same work. The software was first available for the Sony PlayStation 3. It can also run in a Google Chrome window. It is now available for a wide variety of Android mobile devices.

[[Qualia]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Consciousness

Qualia is a term philosophers use for bits of perception or subjective, conscious experience. It is in the field called the philosophy of psychology, or philosophy of mind.

Examples of qualia include the pain of a headache, the taste of wine, or the perceived redness of an evening sky. It is a separate bit of experience, different from thinking about propositions or stream of consciousness thought.

Daniel Dennett (b. 1942), American philosopher and cognitive scientist, says qualia is "an unfamiliar term for something that could not be more familiar to each of us: the ways things seem to us".

[[Stream of consciousness]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Philosophy, Metaphors, Consciousness

Stream of consciousness refers to the flow of thoughts in the conscious mind. It was a term used by the American psychologist and philosopher William James in 1890.  James said:

The idea (but not the term) had been noted before James, by the philosopher William Hamilton in his lectures of 1838/9. He described thought as "a series of acts all... connected".

A similar idea occurs in early Buddhist writings, and is sometimes called the mindstream.

[[Oscar Isaac]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1979 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Guatemalan people

Oscar Isaac (born Óscar Isaac Hernández Estrada; March 9, 1979) is a Guatemalan American actor and musician. He is known for his lead film roles in the comedy-drama Inside Llewyn Davis (2013), for which he received a Golden Globe Award nomination, the crime drama A Most Violent Year (2014) and the science fiction thriller Ex Machina (2015). He had a role in the 2015 film Star Wars: The Force Awakens. He has also recorded music in Guatemala. He won a Golden Globe Award in 2016.

[[Jeannie Mai]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1979 births

Jeannie Camtu Mai (born January 4, 1979) is an American television personality. She is a known fashion expert for the television series How Do I Look?. She has been a presenter for the Miss Universe pageant as well. 

[[Alexandra Nilsson]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish entertainers, 1991 births, Living people, Bloggers, Swedish television personalities, Swedish writers

Alexandra "Kissie" Nilsson (born Alexandra Barbara Nilsson, 18 April 1991) is a Swedish blogger and television personality.   She has two siblings, who are younger than her. 

She started her blog in January 2007. In 2011, she had the most visited blog in Sweden with about 170,000 visitors.  She also has a Youtube channel called Alexandra "Kissie" Nilsson. It has very many subscribers.

In late summer of 2010, Kissie tried to start a career in music by recording a song, called "Success". It was released a month later. However, the song didn't get very much attention, and most of her readers didn't buy the song. That caused the website that sold "Success" to shut down two weeks after it's publicity.

In autumn 2010, Kissie and her friend were traveling to a Swedish city called Västerås, where they were going to host DJ at a nightclub. She said on her blog that she would meet her readers at the train station, but when she got there, she was attacked by some readers who threw some eggs and flour at her.

[[Svetlana Alexievich]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Belarusian writers, Nobel Prize in Literature winners

Svetlana Alexandrovna Alexievich(born 31 May 1948 in Ukraine) is a Belarusian investigative journalist and non-fiction writer who writes in the Russian language. She won a Nobel Prize in Literature in 2015.

[[Honda CR-V]]

CATEGORIES: Honda automobiles

The Honda CR-V is a compact SUV, manufactured since 1997 by Honda. It was loosely based on the Honda Civic. It debuted in Japan in 1996. 

In 1997 the five-passenger compact utility vehicle was introduced in North America. At first it was available only as a four-wheel drive model. It was powered by a 126-horsepower 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine. Honda first began producing the CR-V in Sayama, Japan, and Swindon, UK, for worldwide markets. It added North American manufacturing sites in East Liberty, Ohio, in 2007; El Salto, Jalisco, Mexico, in late 2007; and Alliston, Ontario, Canada, in 2012. 

The CR-V also is produced in Wuhan (Hubei province) for the Chinese market by the Dongfeng Honda Automobile Company. They are a joint venture with Dongfeng Motor Corporation. The CR-V is Honda's second smallest utility vehicle, slotting between the smaller HR-V and the larger Pilot. In 2015 the CR-V was named Motor Trend SUV of the year.

[[Piña colada]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink

A piña colada is a special kind of mixed cocktail. It is usually made of rum, coconut cream, and pineapple juice. It is usually served either blended or shaken with ice. It may be garnished with either a pineapple wedge, a maraschino cherry, or both. Piña colada is the national drink of Puerto Rico. 

There are many claims to be the first to invent the piña colada. Bartender Ramon “Monchito” Marrero is claimed to be the inventor over fifty years ago by the Puerto Rican government. But there are three places in Puerto Rico that claim to be the home of the Piña Colada. There was also a version made in Cuba as early as 1922.

[[Griot]]

CATEGORIES: Oral tradition, African traditional religions

A griot or Jeli is a West African historian, storyteller, musician, genealogist, spokesperson, diplomat, teacher, praise-singer and more. There is really no word in the English language that fully explains what a Griot does. Not every griot does all these things, but these are some examples of what their function is. 

[[Internet Assigned Numbers Authority]]

CATEGORIES: Internet standards, Internet-related organizations, Organizations based in the United States, 1988 establishments in the United States

The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) is a department of ICANN. IANA is a nonprofit corporation that handles many Internet-related symbols and numbers.

[[Roommate]]

CATEGORIES: Relationships

A roommate is a person who shares a room, apartment (British flat) or house with others. A housemate (mainly British) is someone who shares a house with others. For students living on a university campus, having at least one roommate is a traditional arrangement. Most college and university dormitories are designed for two roommates. There is a new trend among college students to request a room to themselves. Many colleges and universities are very willing to give what is called a 'super single' to one student who wants privacy.

The reason many get one or more roommates is to save money. As rents keep increasing, they are sometimes going up faster than wages in an area.

[[Bernocchi]]

Bernocchi might mean:

[[Synthetic cannabis]]

CATEGORIES: Illegal drugs, Cannabis

Synthetic cannabis (synthetic marijuana) is a type of designer drug made from chemicals sprayed onto herbs.  Synthetic cannabis is often called K2, Spice, or fake weed.  "Synthetic" means "man-made"; Cannabis is the plant that marijuana is made from.  

Synthetic cannabis is not really man-made marijuana.  It has no marijuana, and no chemicals from the Cannabis plant, in it.  Instead, it is sprayed with man-made chemicals called cannabinoids.  In the brain, they act like the chemicals in real marijuana (like THC).  Because of this, they can make a person feel "high" the same way real marijuana can.

[[Ostwald process]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical processes

The Ostwald process is a chemical process for making nitric acid (HNO3). The Ostwald process provides the main raw material for the most common type of fertilizer production. It is closely associated with the Haber process. It is named after Wilhelm Ostwald, who developed the process and patented it in 1902.

Ammonia is converted to nitric acid in two stages. 

1) It is oxidized in the presence of platinium as catalyst at about 900 degrees Celcius to form nitric oxide and water.

2) Nitric oxide is oxidized again to form nitrogen dioxide and then it reacts with water to form dilute nitric acid whereas some portion of the nitrogen dioxide is reduce back to nitric oxide. 

[[2014 FIVB Volleyball World Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball, 2014 in sports

The 2014 Volleyball World Championship was held in Poland from 30 August to 21 September 2014. The tournament featured 24 teams to determine the world champions in men's volleyball. In addition to the host nation Poland, 23 teams qualified for the tournament by means of continental and regional competitions. The matches took place in seven venues across seven Polish cities, with the final being held at Spodek, Katowice.

[[Marion Maréchal]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, National Front (France) politicians, Politicians from Ile-de-France

Marion Maréchal-Le Pen (born 10 December 1989) is a French politician. She is the granddaughter of Jean-Marie Le Pen and the niece of Marine Le Pen. She is a member of Front National and an MP for Vaucluse's 3rd constituency since 2012. Twenty-two years old at the time of her election, she became France's youngest MP in modern political history.

[[Cornway College]]

CATEGORIES: Zimbabwe, Schools, 2006 establishments, 2000s establishments in Africa

Cornway College (or simply Cornway) is a private, day and boarding school for boys and girls in Mount Hampden, Mashonaland West, Zimbabwe, Africa. It is 16.5 from the Harare central business district. Cornway College was opened on January 23, 2006. It has a preparatory school (Cornway Junior College) and a high school (Cornway Senior College). The language used to communicate within the school is English.

Cornway College was ranked as one of the top 10 high schools in Zimbabwe in 2014.

[[Orizuru]]

CATEGORIES: Origami, Cranes

An orizuru (折鶴 ori- "folded," tsuru "crane"), or paper crane, is a classically designed paper Japanese origami. Red paper cranes is a representation of the Japanese red-crowned crane which is special in Japanese culture. The orizuru is often is used restaurant table decoration.  Senbazuru (千羽鶴), which means "thousand cranes," are one thousand paper cranes strung together.

[[Out of the Woods (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 songs, Pop songs, Taylor Swift songs

"Out of the Woods" is a song recorded by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift.  It is the sixth single from her album, 1989.  It was co-written and co-produced by Swift and Jack Antonoff from the American alternative band Fun.  The two produced the song along with Swedish songwriter and producer Max Martin.  The song is the fourth track on the album.  It became her sixth top-20 hit in a row on the US Billboard Hot 100.

The music video for the song was released on December 31, 2015, live on Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve with Ryan Seacrest on ABC stations in the United States.

[[Stephen Stanton]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Actors from Bavaria, American video game actors, American voice actors, People from Augsburg

Stephen Walter Stanton (born August 22, 1961) is a German-born American voice actor, impressionist, visual effects artist and comedian. He has done many voice roles in television shows, movies and video games. He is best known for his work in The 7D and in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars franchise.

[[Point Break]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 action movies, 1991 crime movies, 1991 thriller movies, 1990s action thriller movies, 1990s crime thriller movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American action thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, American heist movies, English-language movies, FBI in fiction, Movies set in Los Angeles, California

Point Break is a 1991 American action crime thriller movie. It was directed by Kathryn Bigelow and it was produced by Peter Abrams and Robert L. Levy. Point Break was released on July 12, 1991.

In the movie, gang of robbers called "Ex-Presidents" who wear face-masks of former Presidents of the United States: Ronald Reagan, Richard Nixon, Lyndon B. Johnson, and Jimmy Carter to hide their true identities.

The movie got mixed and positive reviews from critics. It has a 68% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Movie critic Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film three-and-a-half stars out of four. In his review, he wrote that "Bigelow is an interesting director for this material. She is interested in the ways her characters live dangerously for philosophical reasons. They aren't men of action, but men of thought who choose action as a way of expressing their beliefs."

A remake was released on December 25, 2015 and received negative reviews.

[[C. B. Forgotston]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, American critics, American lawyers, American political activists, Businesspeople from Louisiana, Suicides by firearm in the United States

Charlton Bath Forgotston, Jr. (January 19, 1945 – January 3, 2016), known as C. B. Forgotston, was an American attorney, political pundit and state government watchdog from Newellton, Louisiana.

For seven years, he was the chief counsel of the Appropriations Committee of the Louisiana House of Representatives. He was an outspoken fiscal conservative and critic of legalized gambling, unconstitutional legislation and political corruption.

Forgotston committed suicide by firearm early in 2016, sixteen days before his 71st birthday in Hammond, Louisiana.

[[Bill Plager]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, Atlanta Flames players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Minnesota North Stars players, St. Louis Blues players, Ice hockey defencemen

William Ronald "Bill" Plager (July 6, 1945 – January 3, 2016) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman. He was born in Kirkland Lake, Ontario. Plager started his National Hockey League career with the Minnesota North Stars in 1967.  He also played for the St. Louis Blues and Atlanta Flames. He left the NHL after the 1976 season.

Plager died on January 3, 2016 in Peterborough, Ontario, aged 70.

[[Peter Naur]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Computer scientists, Danish scientists, Disease-related deaths in Denmark, Turing Award winners

Peter Naur (25 October 1928 – 3 January 2016) was a Danish computer science pioneer and Turing award winner. He helped the creation of the ALGOL 60 programming language. 

He began his career as an astronomer for which he received his PhD degree in 1957. From 1969 to 1998 Naur was a professor of computer science at University of Copenhagen. Naur won the 2005 ACM A.M. Turing Award for his work on defining the ALGOL 60 programming language.

Naur died on 3 January 2016 after a short illness in Herlev, aged 87.

[[Robert Stigwood]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, Australian businesspeople, Australian movie producers, People from Adelaide

Robert Stigwood (16 April 1934 – 4 January 2016) was an English-Australian music entrepreneur and impresario. He was best known for managing Cream and the Bee Gees. He relocated to England in 1954.

In the 1960s and 1970s he was one of the most successful figures in the entertainment world, through his management of music groups like Cream and The Bee Gees, theatrical productions like Hair and Jesus Christ Superstar and movie productions including the hugely successful Saturday Night Fever and Grease.

Stigwood died on 4 January 2016 in London at the age of 81.

[[Igor Sergun]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2016 deaths, Russian generals, Soviet generals

General Igor Dmitrievich Sergun (28 March 1957 – 3 January 2016) was a Russian military officer. He was Director of the GRU, the Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, since December 26, 2011.

He worked in military intelligence since 1984, and served in various positions in the Main Intelligence Directorate. He speaks several foreign languages and was awarded state awards. In 1998 as a colonel, he served as a RF Military Attaché in Tirana, Albania. In December 2011, he was appointed as Head of the Main Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation.

Sergun died suddenly on 3 January 2016 in Moscow at the age of 58.

[[Michel Galabru]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, French movie actors, French television actors, Actors from Paris

Michel Louis Edmond Galabru (27 October 1922 – 4 January 2016) was a French actor. He was known for his roles in Subway (1985), Belle époque (1992) and as Abraracourcix in Asterix & Obelix Take On Caesar (1999).

Galabru was born in Safi, Morocco to French parents. He was raised near Paris, France. He appeared in over 250 movies mostly directed by Bertrand Blier, Jean-Luc Godard, Luc Besson and Costa-Gavras. Galabru died on 4 January 2016 in his home in Paris, France at the age of 93.

[[Bertrand Blier]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, French screenwriters, French movie directors

Bertrand Blier (born 14 March 1939) is a French screenwriter and movie director. His 1978 movie Get Out Your Handkerchiefs won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film at the 51st Academy Awards.

He is the son of famous French actor Bernard Blier. His 1996 movie Mon Homme was entered into the 46th Berlin International Film Festival. His 2005 film How Much Do You Love Me? was entered into the 28th Moscow International Film Festival where he won the Silver George for Best Director.

[[Safi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Morocco

Safi (Berber: Asfi, ⴰⵙⴼⵉ; أسفي, Portuguese: Safim) is a city in western Morocco on the Atlantic Ocean. The capital of Safi Province, it has a population of 282,227 (2004 census). Safi is the main fishing port for the country's sardine industry, and also exports phosphates, textiles and ceramics.

[[Shaykh al-Islam]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, Arabic words and phrases, Muslims, Religious leaders

Shaykh al-Islam (شيخ الإسلام) ("the Elder of Islam" or "the Master of Islam") is a title of respect for outstanding scholars of Islam. The title may also be used for the chief expert in Islamic Law of a city or kingdom. 

The title shaykh al-Islam was reserved for very few scholars. Usually those with the greatest merits. Al-Sakhawi defines it as follows:

[[Alfonso Ribeiro]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Actors from the Bronx, African American actors, American child actors, American dancers, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American voice actors, Dancing with the Stars participants, Living people

Alfonso Lincoln Ribeiro, Sr. (born September 21, 1971) is a American actor, television director, dancer, and game show host. He is best known for his roles as Carlton Banks on the sitcom The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air and as Alfonso Spears on the sitcom Silver Spoons. Ribeiro is the current host of America's Funniest Home Videos. He took over for former host Tom Bergeron who left after fifteen years.

Ribeiro took part in the nineteenth season of Dancing with the Stars. He was paired with professional dancer Witney Carson. Ribeiro and Carson were both able to win the competition.

[[Kharkov National Medical University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Ukraine, 1805 establishments, Establishments in Ukraine, 1800s establishments in Europe

Kharkov National Medical University (KNMU, Ха́рьковский национа́льный медици́нский университе́т, Ха́рківський націона́льний медици́нський університе́т) is a medical university in Kharkov, Ukraine. It was first known as Kharov State Medical University and then Kharkov Medical State Institute.

At present, over 700 professors teach at the university. Since 1951, the university has been training medical staff for countries of Eastern Europe, China and Mongolia. Since 1961, it has been training students from other countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America. At present, there are about 3,400 foreign students in the Kharkiv National Medical University who study at the Preparatory Department, Medical, Nursing and Dental Faculties. They do postgraduate and clinical post-graduate (residency) courses as well as professional probation at departments of the university in Dental, therapy, orthopedics, surgery, oncology, psychiatry, ophthalmology, obstetrics and gynecology, as well as other medical specialties. The University has trained over 5,000 specialists for 86 countries in Europe, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East.

[[Gitanjali]]

CATEGORIES: Poems, 1910 books

Gitanjali is a book of poems written by Rabindranath Tagore. There are 157 poems in the book. All the poems are in the Bengali language. It has been translated into many languages by many writers. Gitanjali is a book of song offerings. Rabindranath Tagore won the Nobel Prize for Literature on November 14, 1913 for his book ''Gitanjali'. 'It also contains the special poem known as the"mind is without fear".

[[Tim Francis]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Ambassadors to the United Nations, Deaths from cancer, People from Auckland, Politicians from North Island

Harold Huyton "Tim" Francis (1928 – 2 January 2016) was a New Zealand diplomat. He was Permanent Representative to the United Nations from 1978 to 1982. He was also Ambassador to the United States from 1988 to 1991.

Francis was born in Auckland. He was married to Sherrah and had three children.

Francis died from cancer on 2 January 2016 in Wellington. He was 87.

[[Sabri Yirmibeşoğlu]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in Turkey, Generals, Turkish military people, Turkish politicians

Sabri Yirmibeşoğlu (1 September 1928 – 2 January 2016) was a Turkish army general. He was Secretary-General of the National Security Council from 1988 to 1990. He was said to be behind a failed killing of President Turgut Özal in 1988. He was born in Foça, Izmir.

Yirmibeşoğlu died from kidney failure on 2 January 2016 in Istanbul, aged 87.

[[Irma Grese]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1945 deaths, Executed German people, Executed Nazis, German war criminals, Holocaust perpetrators, People executed by hanging, SS people

Irma Ida Ilse Grese (7 October 1923 – 13 December 1945) was a member of the Schutzstaffel (SS), a powerful Nazi military organization, during World War II.  She was a guard at the Nazi concentration camps at Ravensbrück and Auschwitz.  She was also the warden of the women's part of Bergen-Belsen concentration camp.

Grese was nicknamed "the Hyena of Auschwitz" (die Hyäne von Auschwitz) by prisoners there because of the cruel ways she treated them.  After World War II ended, Grese was put on trial for war crimes at the Nuremberg Trials.  She was convicted of crimes against humanity for the things she did at Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen.  She was executed in 1945 at age 22.

[[Stephen W. Bosworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, American academics, Ambassadors of the United States, American diplomats, Cancer deaths in Massachusetts, Deaths from prostate cancer, Politicians from Grand Rapids, Michigan, Recipients of the Order of the Rising Sun

Stephen Warren Bosworth (December 4, 1939 – January 3, 2016) was an American academic and diplomat. He served as U.S. Ambassador three times: Tunisia (1979–1981), Philippines (1984–1987), and South Korea (1997–2001).

Bosworth was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He was married and had four children.

Bosworth died from prostate cancer on January 3, 2016 in Boston, Massachusetts. He was 77.

[[Jean-Paul L'Allier]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, Canadian journalists, Disease-related deaths in Quebec, People from Quebec City, Politicians from Quebec, Writers from Quebec

Jean-Paul L'Allier (August 12, 1938 – January 5, 2016) was a Canadian politician and journalist. He was a member of the Quebec Liberal Party. He served as the 38th Mayor of Quebec City from 1989 to 2005. He served in the National Assembly of Quebec for Deux-Montagnes from 1970 to 1976. He also worked for the Montreal newspaper Le Devoir in the 1980s. He was born in Hudson, Quebec.

L'Allier died after an illness on January 5, 2016 in Quebec City. He was 77.

[[Paul Bley]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Canadian Jews, Jazz pianists, Jewish musicians, Musicians from Montreal

Hyman Paul Bley CM (November 10, 1932 – January 3, 2016) was a Canadian pianist. He was known for his work to the free jazz movement of the 1960s. He began his career in the 1950s and was active until his death in the 2010s. He worked with jazz musicians Lee Konitz, Charlie Haden, Evan Parker, Charlie Parker, Sonny Rollins, Charles Mingus, Ornette Coleman and many others.

Bley was born in Montreal, Quebec. He was adopted and Jewish. He was married to Carla Bley until their divorce.

Bley died on January 3, 2016 in Stuart, Florida. He was 83.

[[Grant Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, African-American basketball players, American Olympic gold medalists, Detroit Pistons players, Los Angeles Clippers players, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Living people, Orlando Magic players, Phoenix Suns players, Sportspeople from Dallas, Texas, American basketball players

Grant Henry Hill (born October 5, 1972) is an American retired basketball player. Hill was born in Dallas, Texas. He was part of the US basketball team who won the gold medal in the 1996 Summer Olympics. He is the son of Calvin Hill.

He was a selected third overall by the Detroit Pistons in the 1994 draft. He played six seasons, five as an All-star. He then played for the Orlando Magic from 2000-04. Hill played for 5 seasons for the Phoenix Suns. He finally retired from the Los Angeles Clippers after a 19-year career.

He was a seven time NBA All-star. Hill is a part owner of the Atlanta Hawks. He received the 2015 Candle in the Dark award. He is in the National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame.

[[Stella Gibbons]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1989 deaths, English poets, Writers from London

Stella Gibbons was an English author and poet. She won the Prix Femina for her novel Cold Comfort Farm.

[[Cold Comfort Farm (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 comedy movies, British comedy movies, Movies directed by John Schlesinger

Cold Comfort Farm is a British comedy movie from 1995. It was directed by John Schlesinger. It is based on Stella Gibbons' book of the same name. The movie stars Kate Beckinsale, Joanna Lumley, Ian McKellen and Rufus Sewell. It was first shown on the BBC on 1 January 1995.

[[Claude Gagnière]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2003 deaths, French writers

Claude Gagnière (January 20, 1928 – September 12, 2003) was a French writer. He was born in Alès.

He died in Paris. After he died he was awarded the prize of the Bouquinistes for all his work in 2004.

[[Gay bar]]

CATEGORIES: Places where alcohol is served, LGBT

Gay bars are drinking establishments that cater to lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender people. The term gay is used as an inclusive concept for LGBT communities. Gay bars once served as the centre of gay culture. They were one of the few places people with same-sex orientations and gender-variant identities could openly socialize. Other names include boy bar, girl bar, lesbian bar or dyke bar.

The Stonewall Inn in New York City is one example of a gay/lesbian bar. The gay rights movement was born there.

[[Stonewall Inn]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment venues, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks, LGBT in the United States

The Stonewall Inn (or just Stonewall) is a gay/lesbian tavern and recreational bar in New York City. It was also the site of the 1969 Stonewall riots. The original inn closed in 1969. In 1990, a bar named "Stonewall" opened in the western half of the original location.

In June 2015, the Stonewall received an official landmark status from New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission for its role as the catalyst of the LGBT movement. It is the first landmark in New York City that has been recognized due to its status in LGBT history.

[[Dow Chemical]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry, Companies of the United States

Dow Chemical is a company which has its headquarters in the United States. It is the second-largest producer of chemicals in the world, after BASF.

[[German Academic Exchange Service]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 establishments in Europe, German language, Non-profit organizations of Europe, Education in Germany, 1920s establishments in Germany

The German Academic Exchange Service (Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst, or DAAD) is an organisation in Germany. It is the largest German support organisation in the field of international academic co-operation. It was founded on 1 January 1925. It closed in 1945, but was refounded in 1950.

The DAAD headquarters are in Bonn. There are 15 international regional branch offices. They provide information and advice on study and research opportunities and available grants. The German Academic Exchange Service is mainly funded by the Foreign Office of Germany and the European Union. In 2012, the DAAD received 407.4 million Euro.

[[Jorge Lepra]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Ambassadors to France, Deaths from heart failure, Diplomats, Independent politicians, People from Montevideo, Uruguayan politicians

Jorge Alberto Lepra Loiodice (4 September 1942 – 4 January 2016) was a Uruguayan diplomat and politician. He was Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining from 2005 to 2008. He was also Ambassador to France from 2008 to 2010. He was born in Montevideo.

Lepra died from heart failure on 4 January 2016 in Montevideo. He was 73.

[[Venice Film Festival]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 establishments in Europe, 1930s establishments in Italy, Festivals in Europe, Movie festivals, Venice

The Venice Film Festival is a festival held in Venice, Italy. It is held every year. It is the world's oldest movie festival. It dates back to 1932.

[[The New Adventures of Winnie the Pooh]]

CATEGORIES: Disney Channel shows, American animated television series, 1988 American television series debuts, Television series by Buena Vista Television, 1991 disestablishments in the United States, Television shows about bears, English-language television programs

The New Adventures of Winnie the Pooh is an animated children's television show. It was shown on the Disney Channel from 1988 to 1991. In the opening theme and 1989 and 1991 ending theme (that sounds similar to the opening theme), the Korg DSS-1 patch "Fantasia" (that sounds like the Roland D-50 patch "Fantasia") was heard. This show is on Spacetoon in other countries.

[[Golden Bear]]

CATEGORIES: Movie awards

The Golden Bear is the highest prize given at the Berlin International Film Festival (often known as Berlinale).

[[International standard]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Standards

International standard is a guidance made by international organizations to be considered and used around the world. The standard can be used directly or with small changes to suit the local conditions. International standard is used as one of the way to ease technical differences and barriers for international trading which caused by different regulations about technical aspects by each country.

[[Gandaki Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Zones of Nepal

Gandaki zone (गण्डकी अञ्चलGandaki.ogg), is one of the fourteen zones of Nepal. It is located in the Western Development Region.

[[Autotransformer]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Electrical wiring

An Autotransformer (sometimes called autostep down transformer) is a transformer which has only one winding. The "auto" (Greek for "self") prefix refers to the single coil acting on itself and not to any kind of automatic mechanism. The winding acts as both primary winding and secondary winding in a normal transformer. Since part of the winding does "double duty", autotransformers have the advantages of often being smaller, lighter, and cheaper than typical dual-winding transformers. The disadvantage of an autotransformer include not providing electrical isolation between the primary winding and the secondary winding. There is also a higher possibility of short circuits due to low impedance.

[[Silvana Pampanini]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Rome, Beauty pageant winners, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors

Silvana Pampanini (25 September 1925 – 6 January 2016) was an Italian actress. She was Miss Italy in 1946. She began her acting career in 1947. She appeared in over sixty movies, mostly comedies. Her final acting role was in 1999.

Pampanini was born in Rome. She was never married and had no children. She was the niece of Rosetta Pampanini.

Pampanini died on 6 January 2016 in Rome, aged 90.

[[National Archive Department of Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Archives in Azerbaijan, Government of Azerbaijan, National archives in Asia, Buildings and structures in Baku, 2002 establishments, 21st century establishments in Azerbaijan

The National Archive Department of the Republic Azerbaijan (Azərbaycan Respublikasının Milli Arxiv İdarəsi) is the national archive of Azerbaijan. It is a governmental agency within the government of Azerbaijan in charge of managing, maintaining, protecting and updating national archives of the Azerbaijani nation state. The archive houses documents, maps, stamps, audio tapes, video clips, photographs and special publications. It was established on December 2, 2002. It is in the capital city Baku.

[[Antonio Carrizo]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Argentine movie actors, Argentine television actors, People from Buenos Aires Province, Radio personalities, Television presenters

Antonio Carrozzi Abasca (15 September 1926 – 1 January 2016), better known as Antonio Carrizo, was an Argentine radio host, actor and television presenter. He worked for the radio station Radio El Mundo and Radio Rivadavia. He hosted shows on many channels including Canal 7. He appeared in the movies El barro humano (1955), El noveno mandamiento (1963) and Muchachos impacientes (1966).

Carrizo was born in General Villegas, Buenos Aires Province. He had a stoke in 2008. He died on 1 January 2016 in Buenos Aires, aged 89.

[[Tommy Sale (rugby league)]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2016 deaths, British rugby league players, Coaches, Members of the Order of the British Empire

Tommy Sale MBE (21 July 1918 – 3 January 2016) was an English rugby league player. He played for Leigh Centurions and Widnes Vikings. He later coached Leigh.

[[Amby Fogarty]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Irish football managers, Irish footballers, Sportspeople from Dublin

Ambrose Gerald "Amby" Fogarty (11 September 1933 – 3 January 2016) was an Irish football player and manager. He played as a midfielder from 1953 to 1975. He played for Bohemians, Glentoran, Sunderland, Hartlepool United, Cork Celtic, Cork Hibernian and the national team. He also managed Cork Hibernians, Cork Celtic, Drumcondra, Limerick and Athlone Town.

Fogarty was born in Dublin. He died on 3 January 2016 at the age of 82.

[[John Roberts (Welsh footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, Arsenal F.C. players, Welsh football managers, Welsh footballers

John Griffiths Roberts (11 September 1946 – 4 January 2016) was an Welsh football player and manager. He played as a defender from 1964 to 1983. He played for Swansea Town, Northampton Town, Arsenal, Birmingham City, Wrexham, Hull City and the national team. He was a player manager of Oswestry Town from 1982 to 1983.

Roberts was born in Abercynon, Rhondda Cynon Taff. He died on 4 January 2016 at the age of 69.

[[S. H. Kapadia]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, 1947 births, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Chief Justices of India, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Indian lawyers, People from Mumbai

Sarosh Homi Kapadia (29 September 1947 – 4 January 2016) was an Indian politician and lawyer. He served as the 38th Chief Justice of India from 12 May 2010 until 28 September 2012. He was born in Mumbai and was Parsi.

Kapadia died from cardiac arrest on 4 January 2016 in Mumbai, aged 68.

[[Christy O'Connor Jnr]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2016 deaths, Golfers, Sportspeople from the Republic of Ireland, Disease-related deaths in Spain

Christy O'Connor Jnr (19 August 1948 – 6 January 2016) was an Irish golfer. He turned professional in 1967. He played in the Ryder Cup twice.

O'Connor was born in Galway, County Galway. He was married to Ann and had three children. His uncle was golfer Christy O'Connor Snr, who died in May 2016.

O'Connor died on 6 January 2016 in Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain, aged 67.

[[British Rail Class 800]]

CATEGORIES: British Rail diesel locomotives

The  Class 800 Hitachi Super Express is a new train built by Hitachi to replace old InterCity 125 and InterCity 225. The class 800 will use diesel fuel and electricity. The 801 trains will be electric-only. The trains can run at a speed of 125mph (200kmph). They can reduce the travel time between London, Leeds, Newcastle and Edinburgh by as much as 18 minutes. One train, a test version of the Hitachi Class 800 Super Express, has arrived from Japan. A new Manufacturing plant will produce 122 trains in the coming years. It will create 730 new jobs. In 2017 the first trains will run on the Great Western Railway main line. In 2018 they will run on the East Coast Main Line.

[[Masaryk University]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 establishments in Europe, Brno, Colleges and universities in Europe

Masaryk University (Masarykova univerzita; Universitas Masarykiana Brunensis) is a university in Brno, Czech Republic. It was created in 1919. It is named for Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, the first president of Czechoslovakia. He wanted to have a second Czech university (until then, the only Czech university was Charles University in Prague). The Palacký University in Olomouc had been closed. The university has nine faculties and about 35,000 students. Between 1960 and 1990, the university used the name of Jan Evangelista Purkyně, a Czech scientist. Masaryk University is member of the Compostela Group and the Utrecht Network of universities.

[[Nino Manfredi]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2004 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Italy, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, Italian voice actors, Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters, Italian playwrights, Italian singers, Italian television presenters, Italian radio personalities, Comedians, People from Lazio

Saturnino "Nino" Manfredi (ˈniːno maɱˈfreːdi; 22 March 1921 – 4 June 2004) was an Italian actor. He was born in Lazio, Italy. He was also a movie and stage director, screenwriter, playwright, comedian, singer, author, radio and television presenter.

During his career he won many awards, including six David di Donatello awards, six Nastro d'Argento awards and the Prix de la première oeuvre (Best First Work Award) at the 1971 Cannes Film Festival for Between Miracles. He is thought to be the greatest Italian actor of all time.

Manfredi died from complications from a stroke at his home in Rome, Italy, aged 83.

[[Andres Rodríguez]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2016 deaths, Road accident deaths in the United States, Venezuelan sportspeople, Business people, People from Caracas

Andres Rodríguez (11 May 1984 – 4 January 2016) was a Venezuelan businessman and an international show jumping competitor. He was born in Caracas, Venezuela. 

His achievements included the team silver medal at the 2005 Bolivarian Games, the team bronze medal at the 2014 Central American and Caribbean Games, an individual silver medal at the 2015 Pan American Games of Toronto, and was qualified to the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, but died before the event.  

Rodríguez was killed in a car crash near Wellington, Florida, aged 31.

[[Marvin Minsky]]

CATEGORIES: Turing Award winners, 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Cryonically preserved people, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, American computer scientists, Scientists from New York City

Marvin Lee Minsky (August 9, 1927 – January 24, 2016) was an American cognitive scientist in the field of artificial intelligence (AI). He was the co-founder of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's AI laboratory, and author of several texts on AI and philosophy. He won the Turing Award in 1969.

Minskey was born in New York City, New York. He studied at Phillips Academy, Harvard University and at Princeton University. Minskey died in Boston, Massachusetts of a cerebral hemorrhage on January 24, 2016 at the age of 88. His body is chronologically frozen in Scottsdale, Arizona.

[[Charles Bachman]]

CATEGORIES: Turing Award winners, 1924 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Massachusetts, American computer scientists, Scientists from Kansas

Charles William "Charlie" Bachman III (December 11, 1924 – July 13, 2017) was an American computer scientist. He spent his entire career as an industrial researcher, developer, and manager rather than in academia. He is particularly known for his work in the early development of database management systems.  The Bachman diagrams are named after him. He won the Turing Award in 1973.

Bachman died on July 13, 2017 at his home in Lexington, Massachusetts of Parkinson's disease at the age of 92.

[[Turing Award]]

CATEGORIES: Science awards

The ACM A.M. Turing Award is an annual prize given by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) to "an individual selected for contributions of a technical nature made to the computing community". It is named after Alan Turing and is given each year in New York City. It is the highest award that could be given to a computer scientist. and the "Nobel Prize of computing".

[[Niklaus Wirth]]

CATEGORIES: Turing Award winners, 1934 births, Living people, Swiss scientists, Computer scientists, People from Winterthur

Niklaus Emil Wirth (born 15 February 1934) is a Swiss computer scientist. He is best known for designing several programming languages, including Pascal, and for pioneering several classic topics in software engineering. In 1984 he won the Turing Award, generally recognized as the highest distinction in computer science, for developing a sequence of innovative computer languages.

[[Richard M. Karp]]

CATEGORIES: Turing Award winners, 1935 births, American computer scientists, Scientists from Boston, Massachusetts, Living people

Richard Manning Karp (born January 3, 1935) is an American computer scientist and computational theorist at the University of California, Berkeley. He is known for his research in the theory of algorithms, for which he received a Turing Award in 1985, The Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science in 2004,  and the Kyoto Prize in 2008. 

He work includes solving problems of combinatorial optimization (mostly network flow), asking questions about what an efficient algorithm looks like, and works about algorithmic complexity theory,. 

[[William Kahan]]

CATEGORIES: Turing Award winners, 1933 births, Living people, Canadian scientists, Computer scientists, People from Toronto

William Morton Kahan (born June 5, 1933) is a Canadian mathematician and computer scientist. He received the Turing Award in 1989 for "his fundamental contributions to numerical analysis." He was named an ACM Fellow in 1994, and added to the National Academy of Engineering in 2005.

[[Fernando J. Corbató]]

CATEGORIES: Turing Award winners, 1926 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in Massachusetts, American computer scientists, Scientists from Oakland, California

Fernando José "Corby" Corbató (July 1, 1926 – July 12, 2019) was an American computer scientist. He was known as a pioneer in the development of time-sharing operating systems and for creating the password system for computers.

Among many awards, Corbató received the Turing Award in 1990, "for his pioneering work in organizing the concepts and leading the development of the general-purpose, large-scale, time-sharing and resource-sharing computer systems".

In 2012, he was made a Fellow of the Computer History Museum "for his pioneering work on timesharing and the Multics operating system".

Corbató died on July 12, 2019 in Newburyport, Massachusetts from problems caused by diabetes at the age of 93.

[[Juris Hartmanis]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, American academics, American computer scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Riga, Turing Award winners

Juris Hartmanis (born July 5, 1928) is a Latvian-born American computer scientist and computational theorist. Hartmanis with Richard E. Stearns, received the 1993 ACM Turing Award "in recognition of their seminal paper which established the foundations for the field of computational complexity theory".

[[Fred Brooks]]

CATEGORIES: Turing Award winners, 1931 births, Living people, Scientists from North Carolina, American computer scientists, People from Durham, North Carolina

Frederick Phillips Brooks, Jr. (born April 19, 1931) is an American computer architect,  software engineer, and computer scientist.

He is best known for managing the development of IBM's System/360 family of computers alongside Gerrit Blaauw and Gene Amdahl and the OS/360 software support package, then later writing candidly about the process in his seminal book The Mythical Man-Month.  Brooks has received many awards, including the National Medal of Technology in 1985 and the Turing Award in 1999.

Brooks was born in Durham, North Carolina. He studied Duke University, graduating in 1953 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Physics, and he received a Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics (Computer Science) from Harvard University in 1956, supervised by Howard Aiken.

[[Frances E. Allen]]

CATEGORIES: Turing Award winners, 1932 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in New York, American computer scientists, Scientists from New York

Frances Elizabeth "Fran" Allen (August 4, 1932 – August 4, 2020) was an American computer scientist and pioneer in the field of optimizing compilers. Her achievements include seminal work in compilers, code optimization, and parallelization. She also had a role in intelligence work on programming languages and security codes for the National Security Agency.

Allen was the first female IBM Fellow and in 2006 became the first woman to win the Turing Award.

Allen died on her 88th birthday on August 4, 2020 in Schenectady, New York from Alzheimer's disease-related problems.

[[Alexandra Daddario]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Alexandra Anna Daddario (born March 16, 1986) is a American actress and model. 

She was born in New York City. She was raised on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Her brother is actor Matthew Daddario. Her paternal grandfather was politician Emilio Q. Daddario. She lives in Los Angeles.

Daddario is perhaps known best for playing the character Annabeth Chase in Percy Jackson & the Olympians and Blake in the movie San Andreas. She has also played Heather Miller in the 2013 movie Texas Chainsaw 3D and Summer Quinn in Baywatch (2017).

[[Tom Allin]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, 2016 deaths, English cricketers, People from Devon, Suicides by jumping in the United Kingdom

Thomas William  "Tom" Allin (27 November 1987 – 4 January 2016) was an English cricketer. He was a right-arm medium-fast pace bowler who also batted right-handed. He played for Warwickshire. He was born in Bideford, Devon.

Allin died on 4 January 2016 in Bideford, aged 28. He jumped to his death off a bridge.

[[Nivaria Tejera]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, Cuban writers, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, People from the Canary Islands, Poets

Nivaria Tejera (30 September 1929 – 6 January 2016) was a Cuban poet and novelist. She was awarded the Seix Barral Biblioteca Breve prize in 1971 for her novel Sonámbulo del sol. Her book, The Ravine (2007), is based on her early life.

Tejera was born in Cienfuegos, Cienfuegos Province. Her mother was Cuban and her father was Spanish. She grew up in Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain. She lived in Paris, France until her death.

Tejera died from pancreatic cancer on 6 January 2016 in Paris, aged 86.

[[Percy Freeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, Disease-related deaths in England, English footballers, Sportspeople from Nottinghamshire

Ronald Peter "Percy" Freeman (4 July 1945 – 5 January 2016) was an English footballer. He played as a forward. He played for Lincoln City, West Bromwich Albion, Reading, Stourbridge and Boston United. He was born in Newark-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire.

Freeman died after an illness on 5 January 2016, aged 70.

[[Sonderkommando photographs]]

CATEGORIES: Photography, Nazi concentration camps

The ''Sonderkommando'' photographs are four blurry pictures, taken secretly in August 1944 inside the Auschwitz concentration camp during World War II.  The photographs were taken by a prisoner in Auschwitz II-Birkenau.  This was Auschwitz's extermination camp - a place where people were sent to be killed in gas chambers.  These are some of the only known photos that show what happened around the gas chambers.

The photographer was a member of the Sonderkommando, a group of inmates forced to work in and around the gas chambers.  He took two photos from inside one of the gas chambers and two from outside.  To keep from being caught, he had to aim the camera from his hip and was not able to focus the camera.  The Polish resistance (a movement of Polish people fighting against the Nazis) snuck the camera film out of the camp in a toothpaste tube.

The photographs were numbered 280–283 by the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum. Numbers 280 and 281 show the cremation of dead bodies in a fire pit.  Number 283 just shows trees (since the photographer could not see where he was aiming the camera, he aimed too high for this photo).  Number 282 shows a group of naked women just before they went into the gas chamber.

[[Mustafa al-Maraghi]]

CATEGORIES: 1881 births, 1945 deaths, Egyptian Muslims, Religious leaders

Muhammad Mustafa al-Maraghi (1881–1945; محمد مصطفى المراغي) was an Egyptian modernist reformer and rector of al-Azhar in the 1930s. He was one of the students of Muhammad 'Abduh. He called for social, legal and educational changes and pursued a strong campaign - begun by Muhammad 'Abduh and finished by Mahmoud Shaltout - to include the modern sciences in al-Azhar's curriculum. To that end he organised committees to reform the university's regulations and curriculum and created a supervisory department for research whose responsibilities included publishing and translation.

Mustafa al-Maraghi was the link between the reforms of his mentor Muhammad Abduh and such subsequent leaders of al-Azhar as Mustafa Abd al-Raziq, Abdel-Halim Mahmoud and Mahmoud Shaltout. As a reformer, al-Maraghi believed in Islam's flexibility and ability to adapt to the needs of modernity. He called for the exercise of ijtihad (independent reasoning/interpretation), reinterpretation, and opposed taqlid (imitation or emulation), the blind following of tradition. And he attributed the religious, moral, intellectual, and political decline of Islamic peoples to the adherence to taqlid and the lack of ijtihad. He said that after the first three centuries, ijma' (consensus of the Muslim community or scholars for resolving legal questions) was impossible, because scholars were so scattered in the East and West that usually it was not possible to collect their opinions.

[[Mufti Mohammad Sayeed]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Disease-related deaths in India, Indian politicians, Muslims

Mufti Mohammad Sayeed (12 January 1936 – 7 January 2016) was an Indian politician. He was a member of the People's Democratic Party (PDP). He served as the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir from 2 November 2002 until 2 November 2005 and, again, from 1 March 2015 until his death.

Sayeed was born in Bijbehara, Kashmir and Jammu. He was a Kashmiri Muslim. He was married and had three children.

Sayeed died from multiple organ failure on 7 January 2016 in New Delhi, aged 79.

[[Sergey Shustikov]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2016 deaths, Russian football managers, Russian footballers, Sportspeople from Moscow

Sergey Viktorovich Shustikov (Сергей Викторович Шустиков; 30 September 1970 – 7 January 2016) was a Russian football player and manager. He played for Torpedo Moscow, Racing de Santander, CSKA Moscow, Osasuna and Moscow. He managed FC Solyaris Moscow from 2014 until his death.

Shustikov was born in Moscow. He is the son of Viktor Shustikov. His son Sergey (born 1989) is a footballer.

Shustikov died on 7 January 2016 at the age of 45.

[[Michael Purcell]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, Australian rugby union players, People from Brisbane, Sportspeople from Queensland

Michael Peter "Mick" Purcell (6 September 1945 – 5 January 2016) was an Australian rugby union player. He played as a flanker and lock. He played three games for the Wallabies in 1966. He also played for the Queensland Reds.

Purcell was born in Brisbane, Queensland. He was married and had two children.

Purcell died on 5 January 2016 in Brisbane, aged 70.

[[Agathemera]]

CATEGORIES: Phasmids

Agathemera (the chinchemolle) is a phasmid insect from  Chile and Argentina. It is famous for its intense odor, which is its main defence.

It is notable for its sexual dimorphism. Females are much bigger than males, at 75mm long and 16mm wide in the thorax.

This phasmid is an evolutionary isolate. It is alone in its suborder, and there are few publications about it.

[[Hyundai Veracruz]]

CATEGORIES: Hyundai automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Hyundai Veracruz was a mid-size CUV sold by Korean automaker Hyundai. It was introduced in South Korea on October 12, 2006. The Veracruz went on sale in March 2007 and was Hyundai's largest crossover (CUV). It replaced the mid-size SUV, the Hyundai Terracan. The Veracruz was built on a Hyundai Santa Fe platform. The revamped 2011 Veracruz  was based on the same platform as the Kia Sorento.

The Veracruz offered third row seating and came with all-wheel drive. Hyundai discontinued the Veracruz internationally in 2013 and introduced a long wheelbase version of the Santa Fe.

The Veracruz was discontinued in 2015.

[[Thameslink and Great Northern]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in England, Train operating companies, Railway companies of the United Kingdom

Thameslink and Great Northern is a train company managed by Go-Ahead and Keolis that run the Thameslink line and the Great Northern routes. The routes were previously operated by First Capital Connect.

[[First Great Western]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2006 disestablishments in the United Kingdom

[[Cubic inch]]

CATEGORIES: Imperial units, Units of volume

The cubic inch is a unit of measurement for volume in the Imperial units and United States customary units systems. It is the volume of a cube with each of its three dimensions (length, width, and depth) being one inch long.

The cubic inch and the cubic foot are still used as units of volume in the United States. One popular use is for engine capacity, also called cubic inch displacement. The common SI units of volume, the liter, milliliter, and cubic meter, are also used, especially in manufacturing and high technology. One cubic foot is equal to exactly 1,728 cubic inches because 123 = 1,728. One cubic inch equals 16.39 cubic centimeters.

[[United States Forest Service]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Agriculture, United States government agencies, 1905 establishments in the United States, Forestry

The United States Forest Service (USFS) is an agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture that administers the nation's 154 national forests. They also manage 20 national grasslands, which encompass 193. Major divisions of the agency include the National Forest System, State and Private Forestry, Business Operations, and the Research and Development branch.  Managing approximately 25% of federal lands, it is the only major national land agency that is outside the U.S. Department of Interior.

[[Dodge Power Wagon]]

CATEGORIES: Dodge automobiles, Pickup trucks

The Dodge Power Wagon was a four wheel drive light truck that was produced in various model series from 1945 to 1981 by Dodge. It was also produced as a nameplate for the Dodge Ram from 2005 to 2013, and, most recently, as an individual model marketed by Ram Trucks.

The original version was based on Dodge's 3/4 ton WC series of World War II military trucks. The civilian Power Wagon continued the production of four wheel drive trucks from the 1930s. It is a significant predecessor to the many four wheel drive trucks in modern use today.

[[Chrysler Hemi engine]]

CATEGORIES: Motors

The Chrysler Hemi engine, known by the trademark Hemi nickname, is a series of V6 and V8 engines built by Chrysler with a hemispherical combustion chamber. Three different types of Hemi engines have been built by Chrysler for automobiles. The first (known as the Chrysler FirePower engine) from 1951 to 1958. The second type was made from 1964 to 1971. The third beginning in 2003. Although Chrysler is most identified with the use of "Hemi" as marketing term, many other auto and truck manufacturers have used similar designs. In general the Hemi engines are smaller and more powerful than older engine designs.  They are also less expensive to build. They can produce a great amount of torque and horsepower for their size.

[[Severnaya Zemlya]]

CATEGORIES: Archipelagos, Arctic islands, Islands of Russia

Severnaya Zemlya is an group of islands of about 30 islands in the Arctic Ocean. The islands were known as Emperor Nicholas II Land. Severnaya Zemlya was first noted in 1913 and first charted in 1930–32, making it the last group of islands on Earth to be discovered. Politically, the islands are part of Russia's Krasnoyarsk Krai region, but are uninhabited by humans except for an Arctic base. There is a meteorological station on Golomjanny island. Scientists live there for some months of the year.

Severnaya Zemlya splits the Arctic sea into an western part, called Laptev Sea, and an eastern part, called Kara Sea.

A phenomenon called Arctic sea ice decline can be shown on the islands: In the 20th century, the islands were a portion of Eurasia which was always covered by ice. Even as the ice melted in summer, some of the ice remained, and blocked what is called the Northeast Passage. If it were ice free the Northeast passage would permit to naviagate from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean easily. By the late summer of 2012, the permanent ice had reached a record low extent and open water appeared to the north of the archipelago.

[[Hyundai Elantra]]

CATEGORIES: Hyundai automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

Hyundai Elantra is a compact car sold by Korean automaker Hyundai. It has been sold since 1990. The Elantra is also sold as the Avante in other parts of the world. The car is now in its sixth generation. Beginning in 2012 it was also offered as a coupé model.

[[Alfredo "Chocolate" Armenteros]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in New York City, Cuban musicians, Deaths from prostate cancer, Jazz musicians, Trumpeters

Alfredo "Chocolate" Armenteros (4 April 1928 – 6 January 2016) was a Cuban trumpeter. He has played with artists such as Arsenio Rodríguez, Generoso Jiménez, Chico O'Farrill, Orchestra Harlow, Eddie Palmieri and Cachao. He was known for making Afro-Cuban jazz, Latin jazz and salsa more popular in the United States where he lived. He was sometimes called "Cuban Louis Armstrong".

Armenteros was born in Santa Clara, Las Villas. He was married eight times, and had nine children, one son and eight daughters.

Armenteros died from prostate cancer on 6 January 2016 in New York City. He was 87.

[[Kitty Kallen]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2016 deaths, American movie actors, Singers from Pennsylvania, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Kitty Kallen (born Katherine Kalinsky; May 25, 1921 – January 7, 2016) was an American popular singer whose career spanned from the 1930s to the 1960s—to include the Swing era of the Big Band years. She was best known for her 1954 solo recording '"Little Things Mean a Lot". 

Kallen died on January 7, 2016 at her home in Cuernavaca, Mexico at the age of 94.

[[Florence King]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2016 deaths, American journalists, American conservatives, Writers from Washington, D.C.

Florence Virginia King (January 5, 1936 – January 6, 2016) was an American novelist, essayist and columnist. She was born in Washington, D.C.. She was known for writing about the American South and worked for the National Review. She was a conservative columnist.

King died one day after her birthday on January 6, 2016 in Washington, D.C. at the age of 80.

[[Pat Harrington, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Emmy Award winning actors, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage

Daniel Patrick "Pat" Harrington, Jr. (August 13, 1929 – January 6, 2016) was an American voice, stage, and television actor. He was best known for his role as building Superintendent Schneider on the CBS sitcom One Day at a Time. He won an Emmy Award for the role.

Harrington was born in New York City. His father, Pat Harrington, Sr., was also an actor. He was married twice. He had Alzheimer's disease.

Harrington fell in early November 2015. He had a small brain hemorrhage. He died on January 6, 2016 in Los Angeles, California, aged 86.

[[Lev Nikolayevich Korolyov]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Russian scientists, Computer scientists

Lev Nikolayevich Korolyov (also Korolev, Лев Николаевич Королёв; September 6, 1926 – January 5, 2016) was a Soviet-born Russian computer scientist. He was a corresponding member of the USSR Academy of Sciences. He was involved in the development of the first Soviet computers.

Korolyov was born in Podolsk, Russia. He studied at Moscow State University. Korolyov died at his home in Moscow, Russia at the age of 89.

[[Marc Alaimo]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Marc Alaimo (born Michael Anthony Alaimo; May 5, 1942) is an American actor. He is known for his villainous roles. He is best known for his role as recurring villain Gul Dukat in the TV series Star Trek: Deep Space Nine. He guest-starred in a Family Guy episode in which he played "The Dean". 

Alaimo was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

[[Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens consort of Scotland, 1545 births, 1567 deaths, Assassinated people

Henry Stewart or Stuart, Duke of Albany (7 December 1545 – 10 February 1567), styled Lord Darnley before 1565, was king consort of Scotland from 1565 until his murder at Kirk o' Field in 1567.  He is usually called Lord Darnley.

Darnley was the second son of Matthew Stewart, 4th Earl of Lennox, and his wife, Lady Margaret Douglas. He was their oldest surviving son. Darnley's maternal grandparents were Archibald Douglas, 6th Earl of Angus, and Margaret Tudor, widow of James IV of Scotland. It is the common belief that Henry Stewart was born on 7 December, but this is disputed. He was a first cousin and the second husband of Mary, Queen of Scots, and was the father of her son James VI of Scotland, who succeeded Elizabeth I of England as James I.

Darnley was found dead outdoors, dressed for bed, after an explosion near his bedroom. Many people thought the Queen had arranged his murder.

[[Klaas Bakker]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Klaas Bakker (22 April 1926 – 7 January 2016) was a Dutch footballer. He played as a midfielder and striker. He played for De Volewijckers between 1943 and 1951. He later played for Ajax until 1957. He was born in Amsterdam, North Holland.

Bakker died on 7 January 2016 in Amstelveen, aged 89.

[[Sol Polansky]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Ambassadors of the United States to East Germany, American diplomats, Columbia University alumni, Politicians from Newark, New Jersey

Sol Polansky (November 7, 1926 – January 6, 2016) was an American diplomat. He served as the Ambassador to Bulgaria from 1987 until 1990. He joined the United States Foreign Service in 1957. While in the Foreign Service, he was stationed in the Soviet Union, Poland, West Germany, East Germany and Austria.

Polansky was born Newark, New Jersey. He studied at the University of California, Berkeley and Columbia University.

Polansky died after a long illness on January 6, 2016, aged 89.

[[Valerio Zanone]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2016 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Rome, Italian politicians, People from Turin

Valerio Zanone (22 January 1936 – 7 January 2016) was an Italian politician. He was secretary and president of the Italian Liberal Party. He was also a senator of the Democratic Party. He was mayor of Turin from 30 July 1990 until 31 December 1991. He was born in Turin, Piedmont.

Zanone died on 7 January 2016 in Rome, aged 79.

[[Yves Vincent]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2016 deaths, French movie actors, French television actors

Yves Fred Vincent (5 August 1921 – 6 January 2016) was a French movie and television actor. He appeared in Sins of Rome (1953), Babette Goes to War (1959), Muriel (1963), Le gendarme se marie (1968) and Hibernatus (1969). 

Vincent was born in Thônes, Haute-Savoie. He spent much time growing up in Algiers, Algeria. He was married twice and had three children.

Vincent died on 6 January 2016 at the age of 94.

[[Sian Blake]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from London, Black British actors, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Sian Samantha Blake (13 September 1972 – 14 or 15 December 2015), also known as Syan Blake, was a British actress. She was best known for playing Frankie Pierre on the television show EastEnders, appearing in 56 episodes between 1996 and 1997. She also appeared Casualty, The Bill and Skins. She voiced Yugiri in the 2015 video game Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn.

Blake was born in Walthamstow, London. She had two sons with her partner Arthur Simpson-Kent. She had motor neurone disease.

Blake, aged 43, went missing in December 2015 with her sons. Their dead bodies were found on 5 January 2016 in Erith, London. They all died from head and neck injuries. In February 2016, Simpson-Kent was charged with three counts of murder and was remanded in custody.

[[White-bellied sea eagle]]

CATEGORIES: Accipitriformes, Seabirds

The white-bellied sea eagle (Haliaeetus leucogaster), is also known as the white-breasted sea eagle. It is a large daytime bird of prey in the family Accipitridae. It is closely related to Sanford's sea eagle of the Solomon Islands. 

It is a distinctive bird, with a white belly, white head, breast, under-wing coverts and tail. The upper parts are grey. The black under-wing flight feathers contrast with the white coverts. The tail is short and wedge-shaped as in all Haliaeetus species. Like many raptors, the female is slightly larger than the male, and can be 90 long with a wingspan of up to 2.2, and weigh 4.5. Immature birds have brown plumage, which is gradually replaced with white by the age of five or six years. Its call is a loud goose-like honking.

The bird lives in India and Sri Lanka through Southeast Asia to Australia on coasts and major waterways. It breeds and hunts near water, and fish form around half of its diet. 

Opportunistic, it eats carrion and a wide variety of animals. Although rated of Least Concern globally, it has declined in parts of southeast Asia. It is ranked as Threatened in Victoria and Vulnerable in South Australia and Tasmania. Human disturbance to its habitat is the main threat. The white-bellied sea eagle is revered by indigenous people in many parts of Australia, and is the subject of various folk tales throughout its range.

[[Off-road vehicle]]

CATEGORIES: Land vehicles

An off-road vehicle is generally any type of vehicle which can be used for driving on and off paved or gravel surface. Off-road vehicles generally have large tires with deep, open treads and a flexible suspension. Off-road vehicles should not be confused with  off-highway vehicles. These are not designed to be used on highways and are capable of traveling cross-country over rough land, marsh, swamps, ice or snow.

[[RAM Rebel truck]]

CATEGORIES: Pickup trucks

The Ram Rebel is a full-size pickup truck made by FCA US LLC (formerly Chrysler Group LLC). The Rebel is a new model for 2015. It has a new grille and tailgate which are different than the regular Ram Trucks. The Ram 1500 Rebel is not just a decal package. It is designed for use both on-road and off-road. The Rebel has features that are standard that would otherwise have to be added by the owner for off-road performance.

[[Oswald Avery]]

CATEGORIES: 1877 births, 1955 deaths, American geneticists, Medical researchers, Microbiologists

Oswald Theodore Avery Jr. FRS (October 21, 1877 – February 20, 1955) was a Canadian-born American physician and medical researcher.  Most of his career was spent at the Rockefeller University Hospital in New York City.

Avery was one of the first molecular biologists and one of the first people to study immunochemistry.

He is best known for the experiment (published in 1944 with his co-workers Colin MacLeod and Maclyn McCarty) which proved that DNA is the material from which genes are made.

The Nobel laureate Arne Tiselius said that Avery was the most deserving scientist to not receive the Nobel Prize for his work, even though he was nominated for the award several times during the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s.

[[Princess Ashraf of Iran]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, People from Tehran, Twin people, Princes and princesses

Princess Ashraf Pahlavi (Persian: اشرف پهلوی / Aŝraf Pahlawi, 26 October 1919 – 7 January 2016), was the twin sister of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the Shah of Iran (Persia) and a member of the Pahlavi Dynasty. She was born in Tehran. She was thought to be the "power behind her brother" and was instrumental in the 1953 coup which led to him taking the throne. She served her brother as a palace adviser and was a strong advocate for women's rights. 

Her brother was Gholamreza Pahlavi, who also lived in exile in Paris until his death in 2017. Her half-brother was Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the Shah of Iran.

Following the Iranian Revolution in 1979, she lived in exile in New York City, Paris and Monte Carlo and remained outspoken on her country's politics.

Pahlavi died in Monte Carlo, Monaco at the age of 96.

[[Judith Kaye]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in New York, American judges, American lawyers, People from New York City, Women judges

Judith Ann Kaye (née Smith; August 4, 1938 – January 7, 2016) was an American lawyer and jurist. He was the longtime Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals, serving in that position from March 23, 1993 until December 31, 2008.  She was the first woman to serve as chief judge, the highest judicial office in the New York state, and the longest-serving chief judge in New York history.

Kaye died on January 7, 2016, at her home in Manhattan, New York from cancer, aged 77.

[[Mahmoud Shaltout]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1963 deaths, Egyptian Muslims, Religious leaders

Mahmoud Shaltout or Mahmud Shaltut (1893–1963) (محمود شلتوت) was an Egyptian Islamic jurist and scholar. He was a reformer of al-Azhar, a center of Islamic learning in Cairo. He was the highest religious authority in Egypt during the 1960s. He was received his elementary religious education in Alexandria, Egypt. He then spent many years at al-Azhar University in Cairo. There he rose to become rector of the university. Shaltut was a very active writer on the sharia and on tafsir (explaining texts). Some consider him to be the best example of the intellectual and scholarly project of Imam Muhammad Abduh.

He was born in a farming village in Lower Egypt. Shaltut distinguished himself as a student at the religious institute of Alexandria and later at al-Azhar. He became an instructor of Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh) at al-Azhar in 1927. The following year, the reform-minded Muhammad Mustafa al-Maraghi was appointed shaykh al-Azhar (rector). Shaltut was one of his best supporters. When al-Maraghi was forced out of office the following year, Shaltut continued pressing for reforms. 

Shaltut himself took many progressive stands. He wanted translating of the Quran. He was in favor of re-establishing relations with Shia Muslims. He suggested sending Azhari students to Europe for graduate studies. He wanted to admit women. He also wanted to add scientific and technical studies to al-Azhar. Yet he survived as a reformer within al-Azhar. This was unlike such former Azhari modernists as Taha Hussein, Ali Abd al-Raziq, and Mustafa Abd al-Raziq, who ended up on the outside. Out of favor with King Faruq, Shaltut helped deliver Azhari support to Nasser against the Muslim Brothers.

[[Troy Shondell]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, American pop singers, American rock singers, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Mississippi, Musicians from Indiana, People from Fort Wayne, Indiana

Troy Shondell (born Gary Wayne Schelton; May 14, 1939 – January 7, 2016) was an American singer. His career began in 1957 and he was most famous during the 1960s. He was best known for his 1961 rock and roll single "This Time (We're Really Breaking Up)". The song made the record charts in both the United States and the United Kingdom.

Shondell was born in Fort Wayne, Indiana. He was married to Trina Shondell.

Shondell had Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. He died from problems caused by the diseases on January 7, 2016 in Picayune, Mississippi. He was 76.

[[Jenean Hampton]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, African-American military personnel, African American politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Kentucky, US Republican Party politicians

Jenean M. Hampton (born May 12, 1958) is an American politician. She is a graduate of Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan with a degree in Industrial Engineering. Hampton was a captain in the United States Air Force and a veteran of Operation Desert Storm. After her service in the Air Force she was a manufacturing plant manager for 19 years. She entered politics in 2014 with an unsuccessful run for state representative in Kentucky. Hampton became the Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky in 2015, under Governor Matt Bevin. She is a Republican and a tea party supporter. Hampton is the first African American Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky.

[[Automotive lighting]]

CATEGORIES: Auto parts, Automotive technologies, Light sources

The lighting system of a motor vehicle consists of lighting and signalling devices mounted on the front, rear, sides, and in some cases on the top of a motor vehicle, and lights the roadway for the driver. The lighting system also makes the vehicle more visible, especially in low light conditions. It gives warning to other drivers and pedestrians of a vehicle's presence and direction of travel. Emergency vehicles usually carry distinctive lighting equipment to alert drivers and pedestrians of their rapid movement during an emergency.

[[Qui-Gon Jinn]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1999, Star Wars characters

Qui-Gon Jinn is a fictional character in the Star Wars saga. He is played by Liam Neeson in the 1999 movie Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace. Qui-Gon is an important  character in the first episode of the prequel trilogy. He is a wise and powerful Jedi Master and the mentor of Obi-Wan Kenobi. Jinn is killed by Darth Maul who pierced his body with his lightsaber.

[[Boba Fett]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1978, Star Wars characters

Boba Fett is a fictional character in the Star Wars series.  In The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi, he is a bounty hunter hired by Darth Vader. He was also added briefly to the earlier movie A New Hope when the movie was digitally remastered.

In Attack of the Clones, it tells his origin as an unaltered clone of the bounty hunter Jango Fett raised as his son. His aura of danger and mystery has created a cult following for the character.

[[BB-8]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2015, Star Wars characters

BB-8 is a robot character in the Star Wars franchise, first appearing in the 2015 movie Star Wars: The Force Awakens. It is a sphere-shaped robot with a free-moving domed head. BB-8 is portrayed by both a rod puppet and a remote-controlled robotic unit. It is similar to R2-D2. It's owner is Poe Dameron. It is voiced by Bill Hader.

[[Rey (Star Wars)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2015, Star Wars characters

Rey Palpatine is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise, played by Daisy Ridley. She is the main protagonist of the Star Wars sequel trilogy.

She first appeared as one of the lead characters in Star Wars: The Force Awakens. Rey is a scavenger who was left behind (for protection) on the planet Jakku when she was a child, and soon becomes involved with the Resistance's conflict with the First Order after meeting Finn, a former Stormtrooper, and BB-8, the droid of ace Resistance pilot Poe Dameron.

Although her background was unknown in the first two movies and her last name was not said as a decision by J. J. Abrams, it was revealed in The Rise of Skywalker that she is the granddaughter of Emperor Palpatine. This disproved fan theories,

saying that she is the daughter of Han Solo, Princess Leia or Luke Skywalker or even Obi-Wan Kenobi's granddaughter.

[[Finn (Star Wars)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2015, Star Wars characters

Finn (originally called FN-2187) is one of the main characters in the 2015 movie Star Wars: The Force Awakens. In the movie, he is a Stormtrooper for the First Order who escapes after being shocked by their cruelty in his first combat mission before joining the fight against them. He is played by English actor John Boyega.

Finn became a member of the resistance after he became friends with resistance pilot Poe Dameron. He becomes romantically attached to Rey.

[[Poe Dameron]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2015, Star Wars characters

Poe Dameron is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He was introduced in the 2015 movie Star Wars: The Force Awakens. He was played by Oscar Isaac.

Poe is an X-wing pilot for the Resistance who brings renegade stormtrooper Finn and Jakku scavenger Rey into the fight against—and eventually a victory over—the sinister First Order. He is the master of the loving android BB-8.

He is featured in The Force Awakens media and merchandising, and will appear in the movie's forthcoming sequel, Star Wars: The Last Jedi. Isaac and the character have received positive reviews, with Poe being compared to the characterization of Han Solo (Harrison Ford) in the original Star Wars movie trilogy.

[[Brad Fittler]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Australian rugby league players, Sportspeople from Sydney, Coaches

Bradley Scott Fittler (born 5 February 1972), sometimes nicknamed "Freddy", is an Australian professional rugby league coach and former player. He is the current head coach of the New South Wales State of Origin team. He played mostly as a five-eighth. His career lasted from 1989 to 2004. He played for the Penrith Panthers until 1995 and later for the Sydney Roosters. He also coached the Roosters from 2007 to 2009.

Fittler was born in Auburn, New South Wales. He is of German ancestry. He has three children; two of whom with his partner Marie Liarris.

[[Red Simpson]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, American country singers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from myocardial infarction, People from Bakersfield, California, Singers from Arizona, Singer-songwriters from California

Red Simpson (March 6, 1934 – January 8, 2016) was an American country singer-songwriter. He was best known for his trucker-themed songs such as the 1971 single "I'm a Truck". The song reached fourth on the U.S. and Canadian country charts. He began his career in 1966. 

Simpson was born in Higley, Arizona. He grew up in Bakersfield, California.

In December 2015, Simpson had a heart attack and was taken to hospital. He died from problems caused by the heart attack on January 8, 2016 in Bakersfield. He was 81.

[[Maria Garbowska-Kierczyńska]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, Polish movie actors, Polish stage actors, Polish television actors

Maria Garbowska-Kierczyńska (3 December 1922 – 2 January 2016) was a Polish actress. She began her career in 1946. She appeared in movies such as Job, czyli ostatnia szara komórka (2006) and Aftermath (2012). Her television credits included Plebania and Ojciec Mateusz. She was a member of the National Theatre in Warsaw from 1969 to 1979. She was born in Garbów.

Garbowska-Kierczyńska died on 2 January 2016 in Konstancin-Jeziorna, aged 93.

[[Achim Mentzel]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Berlin, Disease-related deaths in Germany, German movie actors, German television actors, German television presenters

Achim Mentzel (15 July 1946 – 4 January 2016) was a German musician, television presenter and actor. He was best known for hosting his show Achims Hitparade from 1989 to 2006. He released 23 singles and seven albums between 1978 and 2010. He was a member of the cover band, Fritzens Dampferband (Fritzen's Steamboat Band), together with Nina Hagen. He appeared in the films The Legend of Paul and Paula (1973) and Der Wixxer (2004). He also appeared in the television shows Das Amt and SOKO Leipzig.

Mentzel was born in Berlin. He was married four times and had eight children.

Mentzel died on 4 January 2016 in Cottbus, Brandenburg, aged 69. It is believed the cause was a heart attack or stroke.

[[Distributive property]]

CATEGORIES: Algebra

Distribution is a concept from algebra: It tells how binary operations are to be handled. The most simple case is that of addition and multiplication of numbers. 

For example, in arithmetic:

In the left-hand  side of the first equation, the 2 multiplies the sum of 1 and 3; on the right-hand side, it multiplies the 1 and the 3 individually, with the products added afterwards.

Because these give the same final answer (8), it is said that multiplication by 2 distributes over addition of 1 and 3.

Since one could have put any real numbers in place of 2, 1, and 3 above, and still have obtained a true equation, we say that multiplication of real numbers distributes over addition of real numbers.

[[Antônio Pompêo]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2016 deaths, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, People from São Paulo, Unexplained deaths

Antônio Pompêo (23 February 1953 – 5 January 2016) was a Brazilian actor. He appeared in the television shows Balacobaco, Rebelde, A Casa das Sete Mulheres, O Rei do Gado, Mulheres de Areia and Pedra sobre Pedra. He also appeared in the movies Xica (1976), A Samba for Sherlock (2001) and Que sera, sera (2002). He was born in São José do Rio Preto or São José do Rio Pardo, São Paulo.

Pompêo was found dead on 5 January 2016 in Rio de Janeiro, aged 62.

[[Ioannis Petridis]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Greek economists, Greek scientists

Ioannis Petridis (Ιωάννης Πετρίδης; 18 August 1931 – 6 January 2016) was a Greek economist and politician. He was a member of the New Democracy party. He served as an MP for Pieria from 1985 to 1989. He was born in Katerini.

Petridis died on 6 January 2016 in Athens, aged 84.

[[Anton Srholec]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Humanitarians, Roman Catholic priests, Slovakian people

Anton Srholec (12 June 1929 – 7 January 2016) was a Slovak Roman Catholic priest, Salesian and writer. He was ordained by Pope Paul VI in 1970 but was banned under communism rule in Czechoslovakia and was jailed for ten years. He was best known for his work charity work as head of the Resota Center for homeless people in Bratislava. He was born in Skalica.

Srholec died from lung cancer on 7 January 2016 in Bratislava. He was 86.

[[William Astbury]]

CATEGORIES: Biophysicists, English molecular biologists, British physicists, 1898 births, 1961 deaths, People from Staffordshire, Fellows of the Royal Society, Alumni of the University of Cambridge

William Thomas Astbury FRS (Bill Astbury, 25 February 1898, Longton – 4 June 1961, Leeds) was an English physicist and molecular biologist.

Astbury made early X-ray diffraction studies of biological molecules. His work on keratin helped Linus Pauling discover the alpha helix. He also studied the structure for DNA in 1937 and made the first step in working out its structure.

[[Karan Brar]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Child actors, 1999 births, Living people

Karan Brar (born January 18, 1999) is a teenage American actor. He is known from his role as "Shirag Gupta" in the movie series Diary of a Wimpy Kid. He is also known for co-starring role as "Ravi Ross" on the Disney Channel Original Series Jessie and its spinoff series Bunk'd.

[[Gary Johnson 2016 presidential campaign]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential campaigns, United States Libertarian Party

Former Governor Gary Johnson of New Mexico declared his candidacy for the Libertarian Party (LP) nomination for President of the United States on January 6, 2016.

Johnson ran as the Libertarian presidential nominee in the 2012 election. In that race, he finished with the third highest popular vote total, nearly 1.3 million votes, and garnered nearly 1% of the popular vote.

[[Otis Clay]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Chicago, Burials at Oak Woods Cemetery, American R&B singers, American soul musicians, Singers from Mississippi, Musicians from Mississippi, Singers from Indiana, Musicians from Indiana, People from Muncie, Indiana

Otis Clay (February 11, 1942 – January 8, 2016) was an American R&B and soul singer, who started in gospel music. He was known for his songs "Tryin' to Live My Life Without You" and "The Only Way Is Up". He was born in Bolivar County, Mississippi, but raised in Muncie, Indiana.

In 2013, Clay was inducted to the Blues Hall of Fame.

Clay died of a heart attack on January 8, 2016 in Chicago, Illinois at the age of 73.

[[Maria Teresa de Filippis]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Italian sportspeople, People from Naples

Maria Teresa de Filippis (11 November 1926 – 9 January 2016) was an Italian racing driver. She was known as being the first woman to race in Formula One. She was born in Naples. She participated in five World Championship Grands Prix, debuting on 18 May 1958, but scored no championship points. 

Though largely unsuccessful in her Formula One racing career, she won races in other series and is remembered as a pioneer in the sport.

De Filippis died in Scanzorosciate, Lombardy, in January 2016 at the age of 89.

[[Ed Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, BBC radio presenters, BBC television presenters, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from stroke, English radio personalities, English television presenters, People from Devon

Ed "Stewpot" Stewart (23 April 1941 – 9 January 2016)  was a British broadcaster. He was known for his work as a DJ on BBC Radio 1 (particularly the Saturday morning Junior Choice) and BBC Radio 2 and as a presenter for Top of the Pops and Crackerjack on BBC Television.

Stewart died in Bournemouth, Dorset from a stroke at the age of 74.

[[Theodor Morell]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1948 deaths, German doctors, Nazis

Theodor Gilbert Morell (22 July 1886 – 26 May 1948) was Adolf Hitler's personal doctor.  For years, Morell treated Hitler with many different drugs.  He helped Hitler with almost everything Hitler did.  Morell escaped from Hitler's bunker just a few hours before Hitler killed himself there.

[[Triple Nine Society]]

CATEGORIES: Intelligence, 1978 establishments in the United States, Non-profit organizations of the United States

The Triple Nine Society (or just TNS) is a large and famous group for people with a high intelligence quotient. The non-profit organization only has members with high IQs. They must score at the 99.9th percentile or higher on a standard intelligence test. In many cases, people need an IQ of 146 or higher to join. There are now over 1,600 members in 50 countries.

TNS publishes a journal named Vidya. Members write articles and poetry. Vidya also has other official business of the society. TNS members communicate with one another online through email lists, a Facebook group two Yahoo! Groups, a LinkedIn group and a scheduled weekly IRC chat. European members have established a group in XING and a French language Members-only Yahoo! Group. TNS has meetings in the US every Fall ("ggg999") and meetings in Europe every Spring ("egg999").

The Triple Nine Society started in 1978. It has democratic principles. TNS wants members to freely speak about their views in keeping with the Society's commitment to friendship and intellectual growth.

[[Lyudvig Chibirov]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Presidents of South Ossetia, Politicians from Georgia (country)

Lyudvig Alekseyevich Chibirov (Cybyrty Aleksejy fyrt Ljudvig, ლუდვიგ ჩიბიროვი, Лю́двиг Алексе́евич Чи́биров; born November 19, 1932) is a Ossetian politician. He was born in Tskhinvali. He was the first elected-President of South Ossetia serving from 1993 through 2001.

[[Merab Chigoev]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2016 deaths, Road accident deaths, Prime Ministers of South Ossetia, Politicians from Georgia (country), Communists

Merab Ilyich Chigoev (Мераб Ильич Чигоев; 15 February 1950 – 9 January 2016) was a South Ossetian politician. He was the former Prime Minister serving from August 1998 until June 2001. He was also Minister of Justice in Yury Morozov's cabinet. He was born in Leningor district, South Ossetian Autonomous Oblast, Georgian SSR, Soviet Union.

Chigoev was killed in a car crash in Tskhinvali, South Ossetia on 9 January 2016 at the age of 65.

[[Bob Oatley]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Australian businesspeople, Billionaires, Disease-related deaths in New South Wales, Order of Australia, People from Sydney

Robert Ian "Bob" Oatley AO (11 June 1928 – 10 January 2016) was an Australian businessman, winemaker and yachtsman. He was perhaps best known for owning the Sydney to Hobart-winning yacht Wild Oats XI. He bought Hamilton Island, Queensland in 2003 for $200 million. He was also responsible for the Rosemount winery, which he founded in 1969.

Oatley was born in Mosman, Sydney, New South Wales. He was married with three children. His granddaughter is equestrian Lyndal Oatley.

Oatley died after an illness on 10 January 2016 in Sydney, aged 87.

[[Angus Scrimm]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Kansas, American journalists, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, Grammy Award winners, Writers from Kansas

Lawrence Rory Guy (August 19, 1926 – January 9, 2016), better known as Angus Scrimm, was an American actor and writer. He best known for playing the Tall Man in the horror movie Phantasm (1979) and its sequels, Phantasm II (1988), Phantasm III: Lord of the Dead (1994), Phantasm IV: Oblivion (1998), and his final movie Phantasm: Ravager (2016). He also appeared in the television series Alias. He wrote liner notes for musician such as Frank Sinatra to The Beatles. He won a Grammy Award for his liner notes. 

Scrimm was born in Kansas City, Kansas. He studied at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, California.

Scrimm died on January 9, 2016 in Los Angeles, aged 89.

[[Jim Ross (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Ice hockey defencemen, New York Rangers players, Scottish ice hockey players, Sportspeople from Edinburgh

James "Jim" Ross (May 20, 1926 – January 1, 2016) was a Scottish-Canadian professional ice hockey player. He played as a defenceman from 1944 until 1955. He played 62 games in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the New York Rangers.

Ross was born in Edinburgh. He later moved to Toronto, Ontario, Canada. His wife, Margaret, died in 2008. They had four children.

Ross died on January 1, 2016 in Woodstock, Ontario, aged 89.

[[José María Rivas]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Salvadoran footballers

José María Rivas (12 May 1958 – 9 January 2016) was a Salvadoran footballer. He played for Independiente, Atlético Marte, San Pedro, Huracán and Cojutepeque. He played for his national team 22 times. He was born in San Salvador.

Rivas died from leukemia on 9 January 2016, aged 57.

[[École de l'Air]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 1933 establishments, Military schools, 1930s establishments in France

The École de l'Air is a military school and grande école training line officers in the French Air Force.  It is located at Salon-de-Provence Air Base in Salon-de-Provence, France.

[[Peter Powell (kite)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from stroke, English inventors, People from Gloucestershire

Peter Trevor Powell (c. 1932 – 3 January 2016) was an English kite maker. He developed a steerable kite in 1972, using dual lines. Powell's kites had spars made of Gonystylus which were later replaced with aluminium tubing and, later still, by glass fibre spars.

Powell's kites came with a long, hollow polyethylene tail that was inflated by the wind. The tail added stability as well as looking good when performing stunts. He was born in Gloucester, Gloucestershire.

Powell died from a stroke in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire at the age of 83.

[[Royal Parker]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American television personalities, American radio personalities, People from Baltimore, Maryland

Royal Pollokoff (April 8, 1929 – January 8, 2016), better known by the stage name Royal Parker, was an American television personality. He began his career in the 1940s and would last until his retirement during the 1990s. He appeared in many roles on television, becoming a staple on television screens. 

Parker was born in Baltimore, Maryland He studied at Baltimore City College. Parker began his career in radio. During his career he announced Dwight D. Eisenhower's victory in the U.S. presidential election, 1952, the assassination of John F. Kennedy, Richard Nixon's resignation, the Iran hostage crisis and the near assassination of Ronald Reagan.

After leaving broadcasting, he ran for a seat in the Maryland House of Delegates in 1994, but lost in the primary election.

Parker died of congestive heart failure in Pikesville, Maryland at the age of 86.

[[Dermot Mulroney]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American movie directors, People from Alexandria, Virginia, Actors from Virginia, Musicians from Virginia

Dermot Mulroney (born October 31, 1963) is an American actor, musician and director. He has been acting since the 1980s. He was born in Alexandria, Virginia.

He is known for his roles in the movies Young Guns, Where the Day Takes You, My Best Friend's Wedding, The Last Outlaw, About Schmidt, and August: Osage County. Mulroney played the main villain of NBC's Crisis, Francis Gibson.

[[Sam Rockwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, People from San Mateo, California, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Satellite Award winners

Sam Rockwell (born November 5, 1968) is an American actor. He won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor in 2018.

He is known for his leading roles in Lawn Dogs (1997), Confessions of a Dangerous Mind (2002), Matchstick Men (2003), The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (2005), Choke (2008), Moon (2009) and Seven Psychopaths (2012), as well as for his supporting roles in The Green Mile (1999), Galaxy Quest (1999), The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford (2007),  Frost/Nixon (2008), Conviction (2010), Iron Man 2 (2010), Cowboys & Aliens (2011), The Way, Way Back (2013) and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri (2017).

Rockwell was born in San Mateo, California.

[[Ka-Bar]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Blades

Ka-Bar (trademarked as KA-BAR, capitalized) is a combat knife first obtained by the United States Marine Corps in November 1942. It was then designated as the 1219C2 combat knife. Later it was called the USMC Mark 2 combat knife. When the United States Navy obtained the knife they called it the U.S. Navy utility knife, Mark 2. KA-BAR is the trademark and namesake of a related knife manufacturing company, KA-BAR Knives., Inc. (formerly Union Cutlery Co.) of Olean, New York. KA-BAR Knives is a subsidiary of the Cutco Corporation.

[[Jeanne Cordova]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2016 deaths, American columnists, American LGBT rights activists, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from brain cancer, Journalists from California, Lesbians, LGBT journalists, LGBT people from Los Angeles, California, People from Bremen (state)

Jeanne Cordova (July 18, 1948 – January 10, 2016) was an American lesbian and gay rights activist and writer. She was a founder of the West Coast LGBTQ movement. She was a columnist for Lesbian Tide, Los Angeles Free Press and The Advocate. Her memoir, When We Were Outlaws: a Memoir of Love and Revolution, won a Lammy.

Cordova was born in Bremerhaven, Germany. She grew up in California. She was of Irish and Mexican ancestry.

Cordova died from brain cancer on January 10, 2016 in Los Angeles, aged 67.

[[Ralph Hauenstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2016 deaths, American centenarians, American military personnel of World War II, American philanthropists, Deaths from natural causes, People from Fort Wayne, Indiana, Businesspeople from Indiana, Businesspeople from Grand Rapids, Michigan

Ralph Hauenstein (March 20, 1912 – January 10, 2016) was an American philanthropist and businessman. His leadership has made the Hauenstein Center for Presidential Studies at Grand Valley State University, the Hauenstein Parkinson's and Neuroscience Centers at Saint Mary's Hospital and the Grace Hauenstein Library at Aquinas College. He was also a colonel in the U.S. Army.

Hauenstein was born in Fort Wayne, Indiana. He fought for his country during World War II. He turned 100 in March 2012. His wife of 75 years, Grace Byrnes, died in 2007.

Hauenstein died from natural causes on January 10, 2016 in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He was 103.

[[Hernán Gamboa]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Argentina, Composers, Folk singers, Venezuelan entertainers

Hernán Gamboa (18 June 1946 – 10 January 2016) was a Venezuelan musician, composer and singer. He began his career in 1956. He was a member of Serenata Guayanesa from 1971 to 1984. He was born in San Tomé, Anzoátegui.

Gamboa died from cancer on 10 January 2016 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. He was 69.

[[D. A. Pennebaker]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2019 deaths, Movie directors from Illinois, Writers from Illinois

Donn Alan "D. A." Pennebaker (/ˈpɛnibeɪkə/, July 15, 1925 – August 1, 2019) was an American documentary filmmaker. He was one of the pioneers of Direct Cinema. Performing arts and politics are his subjects. His subjects cover events of the 1960s.

In 2012, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences recognized his body of work with an Academy Honorary Award or "lifetime Oscar".

Pennebaker died at his home in Sag Harbor, New York on August 1, 2019, aged 94.

[[María Lorenza Barreneche]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Argentina, People from Buenos Aires, Socialites, First Ladies and Gentlemen of Argentina

María Lorenza Barreneche Iriarte (3 July 1926 – 5 January 2015) was an Argentine public figure. She was the wife of the late President Raúl Alfonsín from 1949 until his death in 2009. She was First Lady of Argentina from 1983 to 1989.

Barreneche was born in Chascomús, Buenos Aires. She was of Basque ancestry. She had six children with Alfonsín.

Barreneche died after years of poor health on 5 January 2016 in Buenos Aires. She was 89.

[[Pat Harrington, Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1901 births, 1965 deaths, Actors from Montreal, Canadian movie actors, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors

Daniel Patrick "Pat" Harrington, Sr. (February 6, 1901 – September 2, 1965) was a Canadian actor. His Broadway credits include Panama Hattie (1940), Star and Garter (1942), The Front Page (1946), Call Me Madam (1950) and Sunday in New York (1961). He also appeared in the early television series A Couple of Joes (1949) and The Wonderful John Acton (1953).

Harrington was born in Montreal, Quebec. He was the father of American actor Pat Harrington, Jr. (1929–2016).

[[Demmus Hentze]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Danish politicians, Faroese people, Lawyers

Demmus Hentze (4 December 1923 – 3 January 2016) was a Faroese politician and lawyer. He was a member of the People's Party. He served as Finance Minister from 1975 to 1981. He was born in Sandur, Sandoy. He graduated from the University of Copenhagen.

Hentze died on 3 January 2016 in Tórshavn, aged 92.

[[Eddie Redmayne]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, 1982 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, English stage actors, Actors from London

Edward John David "Eddie" Redmayne, OBE (born 6 January 1982) is an English actor. 

He is known for his roles in The Good Shepherd (2006), Savage Grace (2007), Elizabeth: The Golden Age (2007), My Week with Marilyn (2011), Les Misérables (2012), The Theory of Everything (2014), Jupiter Ascending (2015), The Danish Girl (2015), Sodor's Legend of the Lost Treasure (2015), and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016).

Redmayne received many awards for his role as Stephen Hawking in The Theory of Everything, for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor, the BAFTA Award, the Golden Globe Award, and the Screen Actors Guild Award. He has continued to perform in theatre, most notably in the play Red (2010), on Broadway, for which he won the Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actor in a Play.

[[Teofil Codreanu]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Sportspeople from Bucharest, Romanian footballers

Teofil Codreanu (1 February 1941 – 10 January 2016) was a Romanian footballer. He played as an attacking midfielder. He played for Rapid Bucureşti and the Romania national football team.

[[Woman on top]]

CATEGORIES: Sexual acts

Woman on top (also called cowgirl or riding position) is a group of sex positions in which the man lies back or sits. The woman straddles him facing either forward or backward. The man then inserts his erect penis into the woman's vagina or anus.

The cowgirl name comes from the image of the receiving partner "riding" the other partner the same way a cowboy rides a bucking horse. The position is often cited as one of the more popular sex positions, mostly by women.

[[The Walk (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 drama movies, 2010s adventure movies, American drama movies, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 1970s, Movies directed by Robert Zemeckis

The Walk is a 2015 American 3D biographical drama movie directed by Robert Zemeckis and written by Christopher Browne and Zemeckis. 

It is based on the story of French high-wire artist Philippe Petit's walk between the World Trade Center on August 7, 1974. 

The movie stars Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ben Kingsley, Charlotte Le Bon, James Badge Dale, Ben Schwartz, and Steve Valentine. The movie was released by TriStar Pictures on September 30, 2015, in the United States in IMAX 3D, and on October 9 in regular 2D and 3D. The film was dedicated to the victims of the September 11 attacks in 2001.

[[Richard Libertini]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Massachusetts, People from Cambridge, Massachusetts

Richard Libertini (May 21, 1933 – January 7, 2016) was an American stage, movie and television actor.

He was known for playing character roles and his ability to speak in numerous accents. Libertini was known for his roles in Catch-22 (1970), The In-Laws (1979), Popeye (1980), All of Me (1984), Fletch (1985), Fletch Lives (1989), Awakenings (1990), Lethal Weapon 4 (1998), and Dolphin Tale (2011).

Libertini died on January 7, 2016 after a two-year battle with cancer in Venice, California, at the age of 82.

[[Nik Wallenda]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Writers from Florida, People from Sarasota, Florida

Nikolas "Nik" Wallenda (born January 24, 1979) is an American acrobat, aerialist, daredevil, high wire artist, and author. He is known for his high-wire performances without a safety net. 

He holds nine Guinness World Records for various acrobatic feats, but is best known as the first person to walk a tightrope stretched directly over Niagara Falls. He walked across a tightrope from Leo Burnett Building to both Marina City towers in Chicago in December 2014.

[[Philippe Petit]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, French entertainers

Philippe Petit (fi'lip pə'ti; born 13 August 1949) is a French high-wire artist. He became famous for his high-wire walk between the World Trade Center in New York City, on the morning of August 7, 1974. The 2015 movie The Walk is based on his high-wire walk in New York.

[[George Jonas]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, Canadian Jews, Canadian journalists, Canadian television producers, Canadian poets, Columnists, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Canada, Hungarian Jews, Jewish writers, Order of Canada, People from Budapest

George Jonas CM (June 15, 1935 – January 10, 2016) was a Hungarian-born Canadian writer, poet, and journalist. He wrote 16 books. His best known book was international bestseller Vengeance (1984), the story of an Israeli operation to kill the terrorists behind the 1972 Munich massacre. This was made into the movie Munich (2005), directed by Steven Spielberg and starring Eric Bana. He was born in Budapest to a Jewish family.

Jonas died from Parkinson's disease on January 10, 2016, aged 69.

[[Villa Paul Poiret]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in France, Architectural styles, Île-de-France

Villa Paul Poiret in Mézy-sur-Seine, Yvelines, France, is an important example of modernist architecture. It was Cubism-inspired, and built in the early 1920s. Later Art Deco features were added. It was a private house originally designed by architect Robert Mallet-Stevens.

The house is in 48500 of parkland to the west of Paris, overlooking the Seine Valley. It is made of reinforced concrete to a geometric style.

The villa was commissioned by fashion designer Paul Poiret in 1921. It was completed in 1925. The house fell into disrepair, and was sold by Poiret in 1930 to actress Elvira Popescu, who lived there from 1938 to 1985. Popescu hired the architect Paul Boyer in 1932 to alter the original design to the contemporary Art Deco  "ocean liner" style, converting windows to portholes, and rounding-off terrace corners. The house was listed as an historic landmark in 1984.

By 1999 the house had once more become dilapidated. It was bought by Laurent Brun. Under the direction of the two French committees responsible for listed buildings, both the outside and inside have been restored. 

Villa Paul Poiret is part of the Journées de Patrimoine, (Heritage Days) scheme:  public and private buildings of historic importance are open to the public on the third weekend in September.

[[Hamada Emam]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2016 deaths, Egyptian footballers, People from Cairo

Mohamed Yehia Emam (محمد يحيى الحرية إمام‎; 28 November 1943 – 9 January 2016), better known as Hamada Ema (حمادة إمام), was an Egyptian footballer. He played as a centre forward. He played for Zamalek SC in the Egyptian Premier League.

Emam was born in Cairo. His father was goalkeeper Yehia Emam. His son Hazem Emam (born 1975) also played football.

Eman died on 9 January 2016 in Cairo, aged 72.

[[Fernando Barrachina]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2016 deaths, People from Granada, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Andalusia

Fernando Barrachina Plo (24 February 1947 – 4 January 2016) was a Spanish professional footballer. He played as a central defender. He played for Granada, Valencia and Cádiz. He also played one game for the Spain national football team.

[[Zelimkhan Yaqub]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2016 deaths, Azerbaijani poets, Azerbaijani writers

Zelimkhan Yaqub (Zəlimxan Yaqub; 21 January 1950 – 9 January 2016) was an Azerbaijani poet. He served as a deputy of the National Assembly of Azerbaijan from 1995 to 2005. He was also named the national poet of Azerbaijan in 2005. He was born in Bolnisi Municipality, Georgian SSR, Soviet Union.

Yaqub died on 9 January 2016 in Baku, aged 65.

[[Ulrich Hahnen]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia, Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany

Ulrich Hahnen (10 May 1952 in Krefeld – 10 January 2016) was a German politician. He was a member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD). He served as a deputy of the Landtag of North Rhine-Westphalia from 2010 until his death. In 1994, he became a member of the City Council of Krefeld, North Rhine-Westphalia.

Hahnen died from cancer on 10 January 2016 at the age of 63.

[[Tropical kingbird]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Central America, Birds of South America, Tyrannides

The tropical kingbird (Tyrannus melancholicus) is a large tyrant flycatcher. This bird breeds from southern Arizona and the lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas in the United States through Central America, South America as far as south as central Argentina and western Peru, and on Trinidad and Tobago. Birds from the northernmost and southern breeding areas migrate to warmer parts of the range after breeding.

[[Rūsiņš Mārtiņš Freivalds]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Computer scientists, Latvian educators, Latvian scientists, Mathematicians

Rūsiņš Mārtiņš Freivalds (10 November 1942 – 4 January 2016) was a Latvian computer scientist and mathematician. He was a member of Latvian Academy of Sciences from 1992. He discovered Freivalds' algorithm. He also taught at the University of Latvia with students including Daina Taimina and Andris Ambainis. He was born in Cesvaine and studied at Moscow State University (MSU).

Freivalds died from a heart attack on 4 January 2016 in Riga, aged 73.

[[Juan Sebastián Elcano]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish explorers, 1476 births, 1526 deaths

Juan Sebastián Elcano (1476 – 4 August 1526) was a Spanish explorer of Basque origin. He completed the first circumnavigation of the world started by Ferdinand Magellan. After Magellan's death in the Philippines, Elcano took command of the expedition and completed the voyage to Spain. The voyage proved that the Earth was round. When he returned to Spain the king gave Elcano his own Coat of arms. He also received a pension of 500 ducats.

[[Contraband]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, International law

The word contraband (Old French contrebande "a smuggling") means any item which is illegal to be possessed or sold. The term is used for goods such as:

[[Contraband (disambiguation)]]

Contraband refers to goods which are illegal to possess or trade. Contraband may also refer to:

[[Mystery shopper]]

CATEGORIES: Commerce

Mystery shopping (or mystery customer) is a management tool used to find out how customers are being treated. Retail companies use it to get an idea about how their branches are being managed and operated. Also franchise chains use it to make sure franchisees are keeping to the agreements made with the parent company.

The idea is to get information which is otherwise  hard to obtain. Quality of service, or compliance with regulations and/or agreements are what is often investigated. A company hires a person to be a customer. The company being evaluated does not know who the mystery shopper is.

Mystery shoppers perform specific tasks such as buying a product, asking questions, registering complaints or behaving in a certain way. Afterwards, they provide detailed reports or feedback about their experiences.

[[Dogue de Bordeaux]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds, Molossers

The Dogue de Bordeaux, Bordeaux Mastiff, French Mastiff is a dog breed that originated in France. The dogs are large, and usually grow to a shoulder height of between 60 and 70. They weight between 120 and 143, but the official standard does not specify a weight. The Bordeaux is a very powerful dog, with a very muscular body. The breed has been put to work in many different capacities, from pulling carts and hauling heavy objects, to guarding flocks and, historically, the castles of the European elite.

[[Australian Kelpie]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds, Working dogs, Animals of Australia

The Australian Kelpie, or simply Kelpie, is an Australian sheepdog. The word 'Kelpie' is Gaelic and means "water sprite". They are very successful at herding and driving livestock with little or no guidance. The Kelpie is a medium-sized dog. They come in both the tan markings and solid colors. The Kelpie has been exported throughout the world and is used mainly to herd sheep, cattle and goats. 

[[Tajdid]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, Arabic words and phrases

Tajdid (تجديد) is an Arabic word that means "renewal". It is usually put together with din to mean "renewal of the religion." A similar but less common expression is ihya' al-din (إحياء الدين), which may be translated as "revival of the religion."

The purpose of the tajdid (renewal or revival) is to implement this ideal model in Muslims' lives, wherever and whenever Muslim society exists. This purpose implies that tajdid is a continuous effort by Muslims always to explain Islam and make it applicable in continually changing situations without violating its principles. 

The notion of tajdid in the Islamic tradition can be traced back to the Prophet Muhammad, who said that "At the start of each century there will arise in this ummah (the Muslim community) those who will call for a religious renewal". Such people (mujaddids, or renewers of Islam), are believed to always come in the time when Muslim community departs from the true path defined by the Qur'an and sunnah (example of the Prophet). The task of the mujaddid, therefore, is to return Muslims to their basic sources (the Qur'an and sunnah), to clean Islam from all un-Godly elements, to present Islam and make it flourish more or less in its original pure form and spirit.

The tradition of a renewal of the faith went back to Islam's first century, with the caliph Umar II ('Umar ibn 'Abd al-'Aziz), who came to power in the Muslim year 99 and was particularly revered for his piety, in contrast to his predecessors. He was viewed as a renewer of the faith in an age of increasingly profane rule, and later mujaddids and their movements in various parts of the Islamic world followed his precedent.

[[Alexander Hickman]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, Canadian politicians, Canadian judges, People from Newfoundland and Labrador

Thomas Alexander Hickman (October 19, 1925 – January 11, 2016) was a Canadian lawyer, politician and judge. He was born in Grand Bank, Newfoundland. From 1966 to 1979, he was a member of the Newfoundland and Labrador House of Assembly. He held many cabinet positions including Minister of Justice and Attorney General, Minister of Health, Minister Responsible for Intergovernmental Affairs, Minister of Finance, and Minister of Education.

Hickman died on January 11, 2016 at the age of 90.

[[Oscar Fritschi]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, Swiss politicians, People from Winterthur

Oscar Fritschi (25 February 1939 – 8 January 2016) was a Swiss politician. He was a member of the Free Democratic Party of Switzerland. He was born in Winterthur, Switzerland. From 1986 to 1992 Fritschi was president of the FDP of the Canton of Zurich. From 1991 to 1992 he was a member of the Cantonal Council of the Canton of Zurich. On November 25, 1991, he was elected in the National Assembly. He resigned in 1999 after he no longer had support. 

Fritschi died at a hospital in Zurich, Switzerland from a short-illness at the age of 76.

[[John Harvard (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, Canadian journalists, Canadian writers, People from Manitoba, Members of the House of Commons of Canada

John Harvard (June 4, 1938 – January 9, 2016) was a Canadian journalist and politician in Manitoba.  He served as a federal Member of Parliament from 1988 to 2004, and was appointed the 23rd Lieutenant Governor of Manitoba just before Canada's federal election in 2004.

Harvard died in Manitoba at the age of 77.

[[Abbas Bahri]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2016 deaths, Tunisian academics, Mathematicians

Abbas Bahri (1 January 1955 – 10 January 2016) was a Tunisian mathematician. He was the winner of the Fermat Prize and the Langevin Prize in mathematics. He was a professor of mathematics at Rutgers University.

He mainly studied the calculus of variations, partial differential equations, and differential geometry. He introduced the method of the critical points at infinity, which is a fundamental step in the calculus of variations.

On 10 January 2016, he died following a long illness at the age of 61.

[[Ann Z. Caracristi]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2016 deaths, Civil servants, Deaths from dementia, Disease-related deaths in Washington, D.C., Scientists from New York

Ann Zeilinger Caracristi (February 1, 1921 – January 10, 2016) was an American cryptanalyst. She was the former Deputy Director of the National Security Agency, where she served at many positions over a 40-year career. She served as a member of the Secretary of Defense Joint Security Commission and President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. She became the first woman at NSA to be promoted to GS-18 rank, in 1975. She was born in Bronxville, New York.

In 2002, her name was given to a Naval Intelligence Professionals' award. Caracristi died January 10, 2016, in Washington, D.C. from complications of dementia at the age of 94.

[[Veijo Meri]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2015 deaths, Finnish poets

Veijo Väinö Valvo Meri (31 December 1928 – 21 June 2015) was a Finnish writer. His work was mainly about World War II and the Cold War. The work is anti-war and has dark humor. He was born in Viipuri, Finland. He wrote novels, short stories, poetry, and essays. He was known for his works; Manila rope: A novel, Private Jokinen’s marriage leave and Beneath the Polar Star: Glimpses of Finnish History. He won the Nordic Council's Literature Prize in 1973.

Meri died in Helsinki, Finland at the age of 86.

[[Wim Bleijenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Utrecht (province)

Wim Bleijenberg (5 November 1930 – 10 January 2016) was a Dutch footballer. He played as a forward. He played for Wageningen, Rigtersbleek, Ajax, Blauw-Wit Amsterdam, Go Ahead Eagles, Apeldoorn and the national team. He was born in Veenendaal, Utrecht.

Bleijenberg died on 10 January 2016, aged 85.

[[Reginaldo Araújo]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2016 deaths, Brazilian footballers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Brazil

António Reginaldo Matias de Araújo (2 October 1977 – 11 January 2016) was a Brazilian footballer. He played as a defender. He played for Coritiba, São Paulo, Santos, Flamengo, Santa Cruz and Criciúma. He was born in Presidente Prudente, São Paulo.

Araújo died from a heart attack on 11 January 2016 in Cornélio Procópio, Paraná. He was 38.

[[Gunnel Vallquist]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2016 deaths, Translators, Writers from Stockholm

Gunnel Vallquist (19 June 1918 – 11 January 2016) was a Swedish writer and translator. She became a member of the Swedish Academy in 1982. She wrote over twenty books. She also translated In Search of Lost Time by Marcel Proust from French into Swedish. She was born in Stockholm.

Vallquist died on 11 January 2016, aged 97.

[[Brian Johnson (rugby league)]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2016 deaths, Australian rugby league players, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in New South Wales, Sportspeople from New South Wales

Brian James Johnson (26 June 1956 – 11 January 2016) was an Australian professional rugby league player and coach. He played as a fullback. He played in Sydney for the St George Dragons and Eastern Suburbs. He later played in England for Warrington. He was born in Dapto, New South Wales.

Johnson died from Alzheimer's disease on 11 January 2016 in Wollongong, aged 59.

[[Darryl Cherney]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s births, Living people, 2016 United States presidential candidates, American environmentalists, Musicians from New York City, Musicians from California, Green Party of the United States politicians

Darryl Cherney (born 1950s) is an American musician and environmental activist. He is a member of the Earth First! environmental movement. He was born in New York City, New York, but raised in Eureka, California. Cherney ran for congress in the 1988 Democratic primary, but lost.

On May 24, 1990, Cherney and his friend, fellow activist Judi Bari, were injured when a pipe bomb exploded in his car. Both were severely injured by the explosion. The case was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), which accused Cherney of bombing themselves. He later sued the FBI and was later awarded $4.4 million dollars. Bari died from her injuries. In 2012, Cherney's documentary movie Who Bombed Judi Bari? was released.

Cherney announced in 2015 that he was running for President of the United States for the Green Party nomination in the 2016 United States presidential election. He is running against Jill Stein for the nomination. 

[[Jill Stein 2016 presidential campaign]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential campaigns, Green Party of the United States

Jill Stein, a physician from Massachusetts, is seeking the nomination of the Green Party of the United States for President in 2016. In 2012, Stein was the Green Party's nominee and received 469,501 votes for President of the United States in the 2012 general election.

[[Prohibition Party]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States

The Prohibition Party (PRO) is a political party in the United States. The party is known for its historic opposition to the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages.

It is the oldest existing third party in the United States. The party was an important part of the temperance movement. While never one of the leading parties in the United States, it was once an important force in the Third Party System during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. This was also the case in mid century Europe. It declined dramatically after the repeal of Prohibition in 1933. 

The party earned only 519 votes in the 2012 presidential election with Jack Fellure as the candidate. James Hedges was the candidate in the 2016 presidential election winning 5,617 votes.

[[Doping in sport]]

CATEGORIES: Doping in sport

In sport, doping is the use of a drug that athletes or competitors are not allowed to use. Certain drugs, such as steroids, are not allowed (or banned) in professional sports. This is because they can help a competitor's performance, by making them stronger or faster. This gives them an unfair advantage over other competitors. The drugs may be legal, but competitors will not be allowed to use them. Many sports make competitors take a drug test to prove that they are not using any drugs.

[[Gloria La Riva]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States presidential candidates, 2016 United States presidential candidates, 2008 United States presidential candidates, 1954 births, Living people, American political activists, Politicians from Albuquerque, New Mexico, Politicians from California

Gloria Estela La Riva (born August 13, 1954, in Albuquerque, New Mexico) is an American politician. She works with the Party for Socialism and Liberation and in California with the Peace and Freedom Party, and previously with the Workers World Party.  

She was the PSL's 2008 presidential candidate, and was also vying for the nomination of the Peace and Freedom Party in California, but lost the bid to Ralph Nader. La Riva ran as the PSL's presidential candidate in the 2016 race, with Eugene Puryear as her running mate.

She is running for President in the 2020 election with Leonard Peltier as her running mate. 

[[Governor of New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of New Mexico

The Governor of the State of New Mexico is the chief executive of the state of New Mexico. The governor is the head of the executive branch of New Mexico's state government and the commander-in-chief of the state's military forces. They also make annual State of the State addresses to the New Mexico State Legislature, submitting the budget, and ensuring that state laws are enforced. 

The current governor is Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat. Grisham won the November 2018 gubernatorial election and was sworn in as the 32nd Governor of the state of New Mexico on January 1, 2019. 

[[Doping (semiconductor)]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering, Physics, Materials science, Physical chemistry

In electronics, doping is the process of adding certain chemical elements to a semiconductor in order to change its electric conductivity. These elements are tiny impurities. This is done to create diodes that make electricity go in one direction, or to make transistors and semiconductor switches.

When the element boron is added to silicon, the boron "dopant" is called an "acceptor" because it likes accepting electrons. When the element phosphorous is added to silicon, the phosphorous is called a "donor" because it does not like electrons.

There are two types of doping: (1) n-type(negative type) doping (2) p-type(positive type) doping

(1) n–type doping: In this, element with five valence electrons are added as impurity(pentavalent impurity or donor impurity) in the semiconductor. Semiconductor has four valence electrons, when it is doped with pentavalent impurity the four valence electron makes covalent bond and the remaining one is now free to move, this is how n-type doping increases conductivity of the semiconductor. Due to excess of electron (e-) in the n-type semiconductor it generates an overall negative charge and thus the name n-type semiconductor.

(2) p-type doping: In this, element with three valence electron are added as impurity (trivalent impurity or acceptor impurity) in the semiconductor. The three electron in the semiconductor bonds with the three electrons of the dopant. The one electron could not make bond and thus the vacant space where electron should be there is created. This vacant space is know as holes. Electron from another atom jumps in these hole to fill it and a hole is created there, and then the same thing continues. Thus, by this way conductivity is  increased in p-type doping.

The impurities are added to the silicon through multiple processes, including "Spin Coating".  A thin layer of phosphorus or boron, usually mixed with a liquid to help it spread out, is spun at high speeds on the silicon.  The mixture spreads out the phosphorous or boron, and then is baked. 

Another process involves a scaled down particle accelerator that smashes atoms of the chosen "dopant" into the silicon, which adds the impurity, called "Ion Implantation".

[[Dope]]

Dope may mean:

[[Marc Allan Feldman]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential candidates, 1959 births, 2016 deaths, American physicians, American political commentators, Politicians from Washington, D.C., Politicians from Cleveland, Ohio, US Libertarian Party politicians

Marc Allan Feldman (October 10, 1959 - June 22, 2016) was an American physician, political commentator, and activist. Feldman was also a practicing physician. He had been employed at the Cleveland Clinic since August 1998. He was also the owner of a small business called Openivo, Inc. Feldman had also served as the president of the Ophthalmic Anesthesia Society.

On January 13, 2015 Feldman announced that he was running for President of the United States in the 2016 election as a Libertarian. His main goal in running was to address how much money influences the political system. He had called his campaign "Votes Not For Sale" and wouldn't take any donations over $5. On May 26, 2016, Feldman participated in a political debate at the 2016 Libertarian National Convention, alongside Gary Johnson, Austin Petersen, John McAfee, and Darryl W. Perry. Feldman would place fifth on the second nominating ballot, losing to Gary Johnson.

On June 22, 2016, Dr. Feldman was found unresponsive at the America's Best Value Inn in Brook Park, Ohio.  He was pronounced dead at the scene a short time later.  The cause of death was atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. 

[[Austin Petersen]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 United States presidential candidates, 1981 births, Living people, American political commentators, American television presenters, American activists, Politicians from Missouri, People from Independence, Missouri, US Republican Party politicians

Austin Wade Petersen (born February 19, 1981) is an American producer, writer, political activist, and commentator. He was the runner-up for the Libertarian Party's nomination for President of the United States in 2016, finishing second place to former governor Gary Johnson with 21% of the vote. 

As of 2016, Petersen is the owner and CEO of a photo and video consulting firm called Stonegait LLC and is the founder of The Libertarian Republic and Liberty Viral, both libertarian news and commentary websites.

[[John McAfee]]

CATEGORIES: John McAfee, 2020 United States vice-presidential candidates, 2020 United States presidential candidates, 2016 United States presidential candidates, 1945 births, 2021 deaths, American computer scientists, Scientists from Virginia, Politicians from Virginia, Scientists from Tennessee, Politicians from Tennessee, US Libertarian Party politicians, Honorary Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire, Suicides by hanging, People who died in prison custody

John David McAfee GBR  (September 18, 1945 – June 23, 2021) was a British-American computer programmer. He was the developer of the first commercial anti-virus program. This bore the McAfee brand-name for years, until it was bought by Intel and given the Intel name.

[[Lionel Cranfield, 3rd Earl of Middlesex]]

CATEGORIES: 1625 births, 1674 deaths, English Earls

Lionel Cranfield, 3rd Earl of Middlesex (1625 – 26 October 1674) was an English peer, named Hon. Lionel Cranfield from 1640 until 1651.

Cranfield became next Earl of Middlesex, after his brother, in 1651. Around 1655, he married Rachel, daughter of the Earl of Westmorland and widow of Henry Bourchier, 5th Earl of Bath. In May 1660, he was one of the six people selected by the Convention Parliament to ask Charles II of England to come back. He became a Gentleman of the Bedchamber to Charles II in 1673. He died the next year without children; his titles went to no one, and his property went to the son of his sister, Charles Sackville, 6th Earl of Dorset.

[[National Geographic (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 establishments in the United States, Monthly magazines, American magazines

The National Geographic, formerly The National Geographic Magazine, is the official magazine of the National Geographic Society. It has been published since the first issue in 1888. This was nine months after the Society itself was founded. It mostly contains articles about world culture, history and geography. Its famous trademark is the yellow rectangular border that goes around the cover of each issue. 

The magazine is published monthly. Additional maps are also included with subscription copies. It is available in a traditional printed format. Special and online formats are also available.

As of 2015-2016 the magazine had a worldwide circulation of 6.8 million per month. Its U.S. circulation is around 3.5 per month.

In 2008 the magazine won three National Magazine Awards. This included an award for general excellence the second year in a row.

On 9 September 2015, the National Geographic Society announced a deal with the 20th Century Fox that would move the magazine to a new partnership, National Geographic Partners, controlled by 20th Century Fox.

The magazine has had various editors since it was founded.

[[Berge Furre]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Norway, Norwegian historians, Norwegian politicians

Berge Ragnar Furre (13 April 1937 – 11 January 2016) was a Norwegian historian, theologian and politician. He was a member of the Socialist People's Party (SF) and later Socialist Left Party (SV). He was the leader of the Socialist Left Party from 1976 until 1983. He was also known for work on 1900s Norwegian history. He was born in Sjernarøy, Finnøy.

Furre died after an illness on 11 January 2016, aged 78.

[[Ivan Bukavshin]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, 2016 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Russia, Deaths from stroke, Russian chess players

Ivan Aleksandrovich Bukavshin (Иван Александрович Букавшин; 3 May 1995 – 12 January 2016) was a Russian chess Grandmaster. He won the Russian Cup in 2015. He became Grandmaster in 2011. He was U12 European champion in 2006, U14 European Youth Champion in 2008 and U16 European champion in 2010. He was born in Rostov-on-Don.

Bukavshin died in Tolyatti on 12 January 2016. He was originally thought to have suffered a stroke. Now it is reported that a massive overdose (or poisoning) of Drotaverine caused his death. It is possible that the reports are consistent, because the overdose might have caused the stroke.

[[Rescue 911]]

CATEGORIES: American reality television series, 1989 American television series debuts, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, 1996 American television series endings, CBS network shows

Rescue 911 was an American reality-based television series. The show premiered on CBS on April 18, 1989 and ended on August 27, 1996. The series was hosted by William Shatner. It carried reenactments. It also included  footage of real emergencies.

It was never intended as a teaching tool. However some viewers used the knowledge they got watching the show. There were two specials: 100 Lives Saved and 200 Lives Saved. They were dedicated to viewers who wrote CBS with their stories about watching Rescue 911.

The show carried two episodes on Hurricane Hugo. It also had episodes on the 1986  New Year's Eve fire in Puerto Rico. It covered a June 1990 tornado and a 1987 Amtrak train wreck.

A reboot of Rescue 911 was scheduled for late 2019.

[[Missionaries of Charity]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic religious orders, 1950 establishments in Asia, Kolkata, 1950s establishments in India

Missionaries of Charity (MC) is a Roman Catholic Latin rite congregation started on 7 October in 1950. It was founded  by Mother Teresa. It started in the slums of Kolkata (Calcutta, India) with Mother Teresa and 12 sisters. It now has a membership of nearly 5,000 sisters worldwide. Members of the religious order show they belong to this group using the order's initials, "M.C." A sister who belongs to MC must follow their vows of chastity, poverty and obedience. There is also a fourth vow, to give "wholehearted free service to the poorest of the poor." MC members all wear the same white and blue habit that Mother Teresa wore.

[[Columba]]

CATEGORIES: Christian clergy, Christian saints, 520s births, 590s deaths

Saint Columba (Irish Colm Cille, "Columb of the Church"; 7 December, 521–9 June, 597) was an Irish priest and missionary. He left Ireland in 563 AD on his mission to bring Christianity to Dál Riata, now western Scotland. He built the famous monastery on the Island of Iona which became known as a "holy island'.

[[Jimmy Fitzmorris]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2021 deaths, Politicians from Kentucky, Businesspeople from Kentucky, Businesspeople from New Orleans, Louisiana, Politicians from New Orleans, Louisiana, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Louisiana

James Edward "Jimmy" Fitzmorris, Jr. (November 15, 1921 – June 30, 2021) was an American businessman and civic leader. He was the Democratic Lieutenant Governor of Louisiana from 1972 to 1980. He was the first full-time lieutenant governor in state history. He was the last lieutenant governor whose duties included presiding over the Louisiana State Senate.

In 1979, he ran third in the nonpartisan blanket primary for governor. In 1983, he was unsuccessful is his effort to regain the lieutenant governor's office.

Fitzmorris died on June 30, 2021 in Slidell, Louisiana less than five months before his 100th birthday.

[[David Margulies]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Brooklyn

David Joseph Margulies (February 19, 1937 – January 11, 2016) was an American actor. He was known for his roles as the Mayor of New York City in Ghostbusters and in Ghostbusters II and as Neil Mink in The Sopranos.  

Margulies died in Manhattan, New York from unknown causes at the age of 78.

[[Bernie Worrell]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, American composers, Musicians from New Jersey, People from Plainfield, New Jersey

George Bernard "Bernie" Worrell, Jr. (April 19, 1944 – June 24, 2016) was an American keyboardist and composer. He was best known as a founding member of Parliament-Funkadelic and for his work with Talking Heads. He was a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, inducted in 1997 with fifteen other members of Parliament-Funkadelic.

==Personal life== 

Worrell was born in Long Branch, New Jersey. He was raised in Plainfield, New Jersey. Worrell studied at Juilliard School. He lives in Hampton, New Jersey.

In January 2016, Worrell was diagnosed with stage-4 lung cancer.

Worrell died of the disease on June 24, 2016 in Everson, Washington, aged 72.

[[Tom Latham]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American Lutherans, People with cancer, United States representatives from Iowa, US Republican Party politicians

Thomas Paul "Tom" Latham (born July 14, 1948) is an American politician. He was the U.S. Representative for IA serving from 2013 through 2015. He is a member of the Republican Party. On December 17, 2013, Latham announced he would not seek reelection next term, becoming the third member of the House to announce his retirement on the same day (along with Rep. Frank Wolf from Virginia and Utah Rep. Jim Matheson).

[[Piet Steenkamp]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, Catholic People's Party politicians, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Dutch academics, Dutch economists, Dutch party chairs, Dutch Roman Catholics, Members of the Senate of the Netherlands, Politicians from North Holland, Presidents of the Senate of the Netherlands

Petrus Antonius Josephus Maria "Piet" Steenkamp (8 March 1925 – 8 January 2016) was a Dutch politician and economist. He was a member of the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA), which he co-founded. He was President of the Senate from 1983 to 1991. He was born in Uithoorn, North Holland.

Steenkamp died on 8 January 2016 in Eindhoven, North Brabant, aged 90.

[[Andrew Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2016 deaths, American basketball players, American Christians, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from non-Hodgkin lymphoma, Sportspeople from Indianapolis, Indiana, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C.

Andrew Smith (September 9, 1990 – January 12, 2016) was an American basketball player. He was a center. He played college basketball for the Butler Bulldogs (Butler University) from 2009 to 2013. He played professionally for BC Neptūnas in Lithuania from 2013 to 2014. He was born in Washington, D.C. and grew up in Indianapolis, Indiana.

Smith died from non-Hodgkin lymphoma on January 12, 2016 in Indianapolis, at the age of 25.

[[Robert M. Cundick]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, American composers, American Latter Day Saints, Organists, Musicians from Salt Lake City, Utah

Robert Milton Cundick, Sr. (1926 – January 7, 2016) was an American Latter-day Saint composer. He served for many years as an organist at the Salt Lake Tabernacle. At this role, he was a member of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. He also played organ solos on the weekly broadcast, Music and the Spoken Word. He retired in 1991. After this, Cundick and his wife became Directors of Hosting at the BYU Jerusalem Center in Jerusalem, Israel. He was born in Salt Lake City, Utah.

Cundick died on January 7, 2016 at the age of 89.

[[Arthur S. Obermayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, American Jews, American philanthropists, Cancer deaths in Massachusetts, Jewish businesspeople, Jewish philanthropists, Businesspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Arthur S. Obermayer (July 17, 1931 – January 10, 2016) was an American entrepreneur and philanthropist. He was the founder and president of the Moleculon Research Corporation. He was a co-founder of Partners for Progressive Israel and the Obermayer German Jewish History Awards.

Obermayer was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He came from a German Jewish family. He was married to Judith Obermayer and had three children.

Obermayer died from cancer on January 10, 2016 in Dedham, Massachusetts, aged 84.

[[Yusuf Zuayyin]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Sweden, Prime Ministers of Syria

Yusuf Zuayyin (يوسف زعيّـن‎; 1931 – 10 January 2016) was a Syrian politician. He was a member of the Ba'ath Party. He served as Prime Minister from 1965 and, again, from 1966 to 1968. He was born in Al-Bukamal.

Zuayyin died after a long illness on 10 January 2016 in Stockholm, Sweden. He was 84.

[[J. F. R. Jacob]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Asian Jews, Autobiographers, Deaths from pneumonia, Generals, Indian military people, Governors of Punjab, India, Administrators of Chandigarh, Governors of Goa, Indian writers, Infectious disease deaths in India, Jewish military people, Jewish politicians, Jewish writers, People from Kolkata

Jacob Farj Rafael Jacob (14 June 1923 – 13 January 2016) was an Indian Army Lieutenant General. He was best known for the role he played in India's victory in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 and the Liberation of Bangladesh. Jacob, then a Major General, served as the Chief of Staff of the Indian Army's  Eastern Command during the war. He also served in World War II and the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965. He was the Governor of Goa and Punjab. He was also the administrator of Chandigarh between November 1999 and November 2003.

Jacob was born in Calcutta (now Kolkata), Bengal Presidency, British India. His family were Baghdadi Jews from Iraq.cn

Jacob died from pneumonia on 13 January 2016 in New Delhi, aged 92.

[[Carotenoid]]

CATEGORIES: Hydrocarbons, Pigments, Horizontal gene transfer

Carotenoids (or tetraterpenoids) are organic pigments. They are found in the chloroplasts and chromoplasts of plants, and also some bacteria and fungi. 

The only animals known to produce carotenoids are aphids and mites, which got the genes from fungi. 

There are over 600 known carotenoids. They are of two types, xanthophylls (which contain oxygen) and carotenes (which are purely hydrocarbons with no oxygen). 

Carotenoids have two key roles in plants and algae: they absorb light energy for use in photosynthesis, and they protect chlorophyll from photodamage. Beta-carotene is the most common form in plants. 

Some carotenoids (like β-carotene) have vitamin A activity (so they can convert to retinol). These and other carotenoids can also act as antioxidants. In the eye, certain other carotenoids (lutein, astaxanthin, and zeaxanthin) apparently act directly to absorb damaging blue and near-ultraviolet light. This protects the macula of the retina, the part of the eye with the sharpest vision.

[[Marjorie Pizer]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2016 deaths, Australian poets, Disease-related deaths in Australia, University of Melbourne alumni, Writers from Melbourne

Marjorie Pizer (3 April 1920 – 4 January 2016) was an Australian poet. She wrote over twenty poetry books between 1947 and 2014. She created publishing group The Pinchgut Press with her husband in 1947.

Pizer was born in Melbourne, Victoria. She studied literature at the University of Melbourne. She lived most of her life in Sydney, New South Wales. Her husband was Muir Holburn, who died in 1960. They had two children.

Pizer died after a short illness 4 January 2016 in Canberra. She was 95.

[[Leo Rucka]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, American football linebackers, San Francisco 49ers players, Sportspeople from Texas

Leopold Victor "Leo" Rucka (August 18, 1931 – January 4, 2016) was an American professional football player. He played as a linebacker for the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League (NFL) in 1956. He was born in Wooster, Baytown, Texas.

Rucka died on January 4, 2016 in Crosby, Texas, aged 84.

[[János Radványi]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, Ambassadors to the United States, American academics, American political scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Budapest

János Radványi (4 August 1922 – 11 January 2016) was a Hungarian diplomat who became an American political scientist and academic professor. He served as Hungarian Ambassador to the United States between 1962 and 1967. He became an American citizen in 1978. He taught at Mississippi State University  (MSU). He was born in Budapest.

Radványi died after a long illness on 11 January 2016, aged 93.

[[Cornelis Zitman]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Dutch artists, People from Caracas, People from Leiden

Cornelis Zitman  (9 November 1926 – 10 January 2016) was a Dutch sculptor and draftsman. He was born in Leiden, Netherlands. He began teaching classes in design at Central University of Venezuela and continued drawing and painting. In 1958, he exhibited a collection of drawings and paintings at the Museum of Contemporary Art of Caracas. His works can be found in collections and museums of various countries, such as the National Art Gallery and the Museum of Contemporary Art of Caracas in Venezuela, and the Musée Maillol in Paris.

Zitman died on 10 January 2016 in Caracas at the age of 89.

[[Robert Black (serial killer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2016 deaths, British crime victims, British people convicted of assault, British rapists, British serial killers, Deaths from natural causes, Kidnappers, Scottish people

Robert Black (21 April 1947 – 12 January 2016) was a Scottish serial killer convicted of the kidnapping and murder of four girls between the ages of 5 and 11, between 1981 and 1986 in the United Kingdom. He was convicted of sexually assaulting one of the girls, and of raping the other three. Black was also convicted of the kidnapping of a fifth girl, and the attempted kidnapping of a sixth. Black was born in Grangemouth, Stirlingshire.

Black was arrested on 14 July 1990, near Stow, Scotland. The following month, Black was convicted of abduction and was sentenced to life imprisonment. Black was attacked in his Wakefield prison cell in July 1995 after being ambushed by two inmates.

Black died on 12 January 2016 of natural causes in Maghaberry prison, Northern Ireland, aged 68.

[[Peter Gavin Hall]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Australian scientists, Mathematicians, People from Sydney

Peter Gavin Hall FAA FRS AO (20 November 1951 – 9 January 2016) was an Australian researcher in probability theory and mathematical statistics. The American Statistical Association described him as one of the most influential and prolific theoretical statisticians in the history of the field. Hall was an author in probability and statistics. Mathscinet lists him with more than 500 publications as of January 2008.

Hall died in Melbourne, Victoria from leukaemia at the age of 64.

[[Georg Nees]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, German artists, German scientists, German educators, People from Nuremberg

Georg Nees (23 June 1926 – 3 January 2016) was a German academic. He was a pioneer of computer art and generative graphics. He studied mathematics, physics and philosophy in Erlangen and Stuttgart and was scientific advisor at the SEMIOSIS, International Journal of semiotics and aesthetics. He was born in Nuremberg, Germany.

In 1977, he was appointed Honorary Professor of Applied computer science at the University of Erlangen Nees is one of the "3N" computer pioneers, an abbreviation that has become acknowledged for Frieder Nake, Georg Nees and A. Michael Noll, whose computer graphics were created with digital computers. He retired in 1985.

Nees died on 3 January 2016 in Nuremberg, Germany of heart failure at the age of 89.

[[Canadian Pacific Air Lines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Canada, 1942 establishments in North America, 1987 disestablishments, 1940s establishments in Canada, 1980s disestablishments in North America, 20th century disestablishments in Canada

Canadian Pacific Air Lines, also known as CP Air, was a Canadian airline. It existed from 1942 to 1987. In the 1940s, several small airlines were combined to form CP Air. Air Canada was owned by the government and CP Air could not fly the same routes that Air Canada flew. So in 1949, the airline started international flights to Australia, China, Fiji and The Netherlands. These were countries that Air Canada did not service. In 1961, it bought its first jet aircraft - a Douglas DC-8. By the 1960s CP Air flew to several cities across 5 continents—Asia, Australia, Europe, North America and South America. In the early 1980s CP Air was allowed to fly wherever it wanted. It rapidly increased the number of planes and opened several new routes. By 1987, the airline had a debt of $1 billion. In 1987 Air Canada was privatized by the National Transportation Act. The company Pacific Western Airlines then purchased Canadian Pacific Airlines. It was renamed Canadian Airlines. Canadian Airlines itself was combined with Air Canada in 2001.

[[Zaharije Trnavčević]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Journalists, Politicians, Serbian people

Zaharije Trnavčević (Захарије Трнавчевић; 2 January 1926 – 13 January 2016) was a Serbian journalist and politician. He was president of the political party Rich Serbia from 2011 until his death. He became a member of parliament in 2012. He was acting President of the National Assembly of Serbia from 31 May 2012 to 23 July 2012. He was born in Šabac.

Trnavčević died on 13 January 2016 in Belgrade, aged 90.

[[Giorgio Gomelsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, British cinematographers, British record producers, British songwriters, Cancer deaths in New York City, People from Tbilisi, The Rolling Stones

Giorgio Gomelsky (28 February 1934 – 13 January 2016) was a Georgian-British record producer, band manager, filmmaker and impresario. He owned the Crawdaddy Club in Richmond, London. He managed the rock bands The Rolling Stones and The Yardbirds. He also worked closely with Daevid Allen. In 1967, he started Marmalade Records (distributed by Polydor). He wrote songs under the name "Oscar Rasputin".

Gomelsky was born in Tiflis (now Tbilisi). His father was a doctor and his mother was from Monte Carlo. He grew up in many countries including Syria, Egypt, Italy and Switzerland. He moved to London, United Kingdom when he was a young adult in the 1950s. In the 1970s, he moved to New York City, United States.

Gomelsky died from cancer on 13 January 2016 in New York City. He was 81.

[[Leonid Zhabotinsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, Medalists at the 1964 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1968 Summer Olympics, Ukrainian sportspeople, Russian sportspeople, Soviet Olympic gold medalists, Weightlifters

Leonid Ivanovych Zhabotynsky (Леонiд Iванович Жаботинський; 28 January 1938 – 14 January 2016) was a Soviet weightlifter. He set 19 world records in the super heavyweight class. He won gold medals at the 1964 and 1968 Summer Olympics.

Zhabotinsky was born in a village in Uspenka, Sumy Oblast, Ukrainian SSR. He was born a Cossack family. He was married and had two sons. He became a Russian citizen after the dissolution of the Soviet Union.

Zhabotinsky died after a long illness on 14 January 2016 in Zaporizhia. He was 77.

[[Shaolin (humorist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2016 deaths, Brazilian comedians, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Brazil

Francisco Jozenilton Veloso (8 May 1971 – 14 January 2016), better known by his stage name Shaolin, was a Brazilian cartoonist, caricaturist, humorist, comedian, actor and media presenter. His best known shows were Domingão do Faustão, A Praça É Nossa, Show do Tom, and Tudo è Possível.

Shaolin was born in Coremas, Paraíba. He was married to Laudiceia Veloso and had two children. In January 2011, he was badly injured in a car accident.

Shaolin died from a heart attack on 14 January 2016 in Campina Grande. He was 44.

[[Gender dysphoria]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Gender

Gender dysphoria is a term used by psychologists and physicians. It describes people who strongly feel they are not the gender they were born with. It used to be called "gender identity disorder." It is a condition accompanied by stress, anxiety, and depression. To be diagnosed with gender dysphoria now, patients must show strong cross-gender feelings that persist over time. It is not just a desire to change sex for some advantage they might think exists. People with Gender Dysphoria are often transgender. They take steps to help their gender dysphoria. A step they could take is to take testosterone or estrogen. Transgender women take estrogen. Transgender men take testosterone. For children, puberty blockers may be taken instead. They can also get surgery. One surgery for transgender men is removal (to get rid of) breasts. This makes the chest flat. The flat chest makes them happy because they look more like a man. Another surgery for both transgender men and transgender women is Genital Reconstruction Surgery. This means they can get a penis or a vulva.

Gender dysphoria may cause many to become alone but not by choice. It often leads to avoiding or dropping out of school. Feminine speech patterns and ways of acting are common in people who were born male with gender dysphoria. Teenagers in particular are at risk of suicide.

The World Health Organization (WHO) renamed Gender Identity Disorder to Gender Dysphoria in 2019.  The DSM-5 renamed it in 2013. 

[[Sucre]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in South America, Settlements in Bolivia

Sucre is the capital city of Bolivia. It was also known as Charcas, La Plata, and Chuquisaca in the past. About 250,000 people lived there in 2006. Sucre lies at an altitude of 2800 and is the sixth largest city in Bolivia. The city is named after Antonio José de Sucre, an 18th century revolutionary leader.

[[Petty officer]]

CATEGORIES: Military ranks, Navy

A petty officer is a non-commissioned officer in the navies of many countries. In the United States Navy, it is a pay grade of E-4 to E-9. Petty officers who are E-7 to E-9 are called Chief, Senior Chief, or Master Chief Petty Officers. Petty officers are managers for sailors that work for them. They are managed by officers and do work that they are told to do. Petty officers are often told to manage seamen and lower ranked petty officers.

In the United States Navy, petty officers are promoted by taking a test and being evaluated every year. If they do good enough, they are promoted to the next rank.

[[Aarhus City Hall]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 establishments in Europe, Aarhus, Buildings and structures in Denmark, Government buildings, 20th century establishments in Denmark, Politics of Denmark

Aarhus City Hall is the city hall for Aarhus, Denmark. Aarhus City Hall was opened on 2 June 1941. The building's architects were Arne Jacobsen and Erik Møller. In 1937, meeting was held to build the city hall. Aarhus City Hall has unique architecture and was marked for preservation in 1994. In the first drawings for the building, the city hall didn't have a tower. The tower was added later.

The city hall has a total area of 19,380 square meters including the basement. The tower is 60 meters tall and the tower clock face has a diameter of 7 meters. The building is made of concrete plated with marble from Porsgrunn in Norway.

[[Multinational]]

The word multinational can mean:

[[Lamborghini Huracán]]

CATEGORIES: Lamborghini automobiles, Sports cars, 2010s automobiles

The Lamborghini Huracán is a sports car built by Lamborghini. It replaced the Lamborghini Gallardo. It has been produced from 2014 to present. The name Huracán comes from the Spanish language. It means Hurricane. Huracán was also the name of a brave fighting bull. And the Mayan god of wind, storm and fire.

[[William Needles]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from New York, Actors from Ontario, American stage actors, Canadian stage actors, Deaths from natural causes, People from Yonkers, New York

George William Needles CM, LL.D, (January 2, 1919 – January 12, 2016) was an American-born Canadian actor and teacher. He was born in Yonkers, New York, and raised in Kitchener, Ontario.

Needles member of the acting company of the Stratford Shakespeare Festival since its inception in 1953, he has appeared in over one hundred roles with the company, among which are Albany in King Lear (1964 and 1972); the Duke of Venice in The Merchant of Venice (1996); the White King in Alice Through the Looking Glass (1996); the Lord Mayor in Richard III (1997); the Shepherd in Oedipus Rex (1997); Merriman in The Importance of Being Earnest (2000); Mortimer in Henry VI: Revenge in France(2002).

Needles died in Allison, Ontario from natural causes at the age of 97.

[[Twin Falls County, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Twin Falls County, Idaho, 1907 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in Idaho

Twin Falls County is a county in the U.S. state of Idaho.  As of the 2010 Census, the county had a population of 77,230. The county seat and largest city is Twin Falls.

[[Butterfly effect]]

CATEGORIES: Weather, Causality, Systems theory

The butterfly effect is an idea from chaos theory. A small change can sometimes make much bigger changes happen. One small incident may have a big impact on the future. The emphasis here is on the words may and can. There is no general theory which tells us what is going to happen.

Weather is hard to forecast, but that doesn't mean when a butterfly flaps its wings in Tokyo and a tornado occurs in Tennessee. That's just silly and impossible. However, what seem to be tiny changes in a planet's orbit can and do cause big changes to the weather: see Milankovich cycle.

Author Ray Bradbury wrote the short story "A Sound of Thunder" with this idea—time travelers make a very small change in the past that makes a large change in the present. However, remember that time travel is impossible, or at least has never been shown to be possible.

[[Extermination camp]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi concentration camps

Extermination camps (death camps) were built by Nazi Germany during World War II.  The goal of the death camps was to kill millions of people as quickly as possible.  At the death camps, people were murdered mostly by being given poison gas in gas chambers.  However, the Nazis also killed many people in other ways at the death camps.  They killed some in mass executions (for example, by shooting many people at once).  They killed others through "extermination through labor." This was by making prisoners do very hard forced labor without giving them the food, medical care, or other basic things they needed to survive.  Many other people died at the death camps from starvation, illness, and freezing to death.

The Nazis sent many different kinds of people to the death camps.  However, about 90% of the people killed in the death camps were Jewish.  Nazi Germany wanted to 'exterminate' the Jewish people (they wanted to kill all of the Jews, so they would not exist any more).  This plan was called the Final Solution. It is now called the Holocaust.

The fascist Ustaše government in the Independent State of Croatia also set up death camps during World War II.  At death camps like Jasenovac, they murdered many Serbs, Jews, and other people.  As many as 750,000 Serbs may have been killed at these death camps.

[[Southeast African cheetah]]

CATEGORIES: Felines, Mammals of Africa

The Southeast African cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus jubatus) is the nominate subspecies of cheetah native to Southern Africa. It is the most abundant subspecies estimated at more than 6,000 individuals in the wild. Since 1990 and onwards, the population was estimated at approximately 2,500 individuals in Namibia, until 2015, the cheetah population has been increased to more than 3,500 in the country.

The Southeast African Cheetah is the closest relative to the two other distinct subspecies, the Asiatic Cheetahs and the Northeast African Cheetah.

[[Rose Chibambo]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Activists, African politicians, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Malawian people

Rose Lomathinda Chibambo (8 September 1928 – 12 January 2016) was a known British-born Malawi politician and activist. She was the Protectorate of Nyasaland in the years leading up to independence as the state of Malawi in 1964, and immediately after. 

She was imprisoned in 1959, while pregnant with her 5th child, along with other Malawians whom the Federal government felt were a threat to British rule. After Malawi gained independence, Chibambo was the first woman minister in the new cabinet. She was forced into exile for thirty years, returning after the restoration of democracy.

On 1 January 2012, she was honored by being place on Malawi’s 200 Kwacha banknote.

Chibambo died from a heart attack at a hospital in Blantyre, Malawi at the age of 87. 

[[Lawrence Phillips]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2016 deaths, American football running backs, American murderers, American people convicted of assault, Miami Dolphins players, Murderers who committed suicide, People from Little Rock, Arkansas, People who committed suicide in prison custody, People who died in prison custody in the United States, San Francisco 49ers players, Sportspeople from Arkansas, Sportspeople who committed suicide, St. Louis Rams players, Suicides by hanging in the United States

Lawrence Lamond Phillips (May 12, 1975 – January 13, 2016) was a professional American football and Canadian football running back. He was a two-time college football national champion at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln for the Nebraska Cornhuskers. He was born in Little Rock, Arkansas.  Many people consider the 1995 Nebraska Cornhuskers, on which Phillips played, to be the greatest college football team of all time.

Phillips played in the National Football League for the St. Louis Rams, Miami Dolphins, and San Francisco 49ers from 1996 through 1999, and for the Montreal Alouettes and Calgary Stampeders of the Canadian Football League in 2002 and 2003.

He was arrested several times during the course of his life. In 2015, Phillips was charged with the murder of his former cellmate, Damion Soward. 

Phillips died January 13, 2016, at Kern Valley State Prison in Delano, California from an apparent suicide attempt, where he was serving a seven-year term for felony assault with a deadly weapon, at the age of 40.

[[Brian Bedford]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from Yorkshire

Brian Bedford (16 February 1935 – 13 January 2016) was an English actor. He has appeared on the stage and in movies, and is known for both acting in and directing Shakespeare. In movies, Bedford is known for his role as Clyde Tolson in the 1994 movie Nixon. He won a Tony Award in 1971 and five Drama Desk Awards during his career.

Bedford was born in Morley, West Riding of Yorkshire, England. He was openly gay. Bedford met actor Tim MacDonald in the 1980s and got married in 2013. Bedford died on 13 January 2016 in Santa Barbara, California from cancer at the age of 80.

[[Paul G. Kirk]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, United States senators from Massachusetts, US Democratic Party politicians, 21st-century American politicians

Paul Grattan Kirk, Jr. (born January 18, 1938) is an American lawyer and politician. He served as a United States Senator from Massachusetts from 2009 to 2010, having been appointed to fill the seat created by the death of Ted Kennedy.

From 1985 to 1989, he served as chairman of the Democratic National Committee (DNC). On January 14, 2016, Kirk announced his endorsement in Hanover, New Hampshire in support of the presidential campaign for Bernie Sanders.

[[Robert Reich]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Labor, American economists, People from Scranton, Pennsylvania, American political commentators, American political writers, Scientists from Pennsylvania, Writers from Pennsylvania, Politicians from Pennsylvania, Politicians from Berkeley, California, Writers from Berkeley, California, Scientists from Berkeley, California, US Democratic Party politicians

Robert Bernard Reich (ˈ; born June 24, 1946) is an American political economist, professor, author, and political commentator. He served in the administrations of Presidents Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter and was the United States Secretary of Labor under President Bill Clinton from 1993 to 1997.

Reich is diagnosed with multiple epiphyseal dysplasia, also known as Fairbanks disease, and stands at 4 feet 10.5 inches (1.486 m).

In January 2016, Reich announced his endorsement for Senator Bernie Sanders for President of the United States.

[[Franco Citti]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Rome, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors

Franco Citti (23 April 1935 – 14 January 2016) was an Italian actor. He acted in over fifty movies between the early 1960s and the late 1990s. He was best known to non-Italian audiences as Calò in The Godfather (1972) and The Godfather Part III (1990). He also appeared in the movies Accattone (1961) and Oedipus Rex (1967).

Citti was born in Fiumicino, Rome. His brother was the director and screenwriter Sergio Citti (1933–2005).

Citti died on 14 January 2016 in Rome, aged 80.

[[Ken Judge]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2016 deaths, Australian rules footballers, Cancer deaths in Australia, Coaches, Deaths from multiple myeloma

Ken Judge (15 January 1958 – 15 January 2016) was an Australian rules footballer and coach. He played for East Fremantle, Hawthorn and the Brisbane Bears during the 1970s and 1980s. He also coached Hawthorn from 1996 to 1999 and the West Coast Eagles from 2000 to 2001.

Judge died from multiple myeloma on his 58th birthday (15 January 2016) in Perth, Western Australia.

[[Murphy, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Idaho, Census-designated places in Idaho, Owyhee County, Idaho, 1899 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Idaho

Murphy is an unincorporated census-designated place in Owyhee County, Idaho, United States. It is the county seat of Owyhee County, It is one of the smallest county seats in the country. As of the 2010 census, its population was 97.

[[Carolyn D. Wright]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in the United States, American educators, American poets, Writers from Rhode Island, Writers from Arkansas, People from Providence, Rhode Island

Carolyn D. "C. D." Wright (January 6, 1949 – January 12, 2016) was an American poet. He was born in Mountain Home, Arkansas. In 1977 the publishing company founded by Frank Stanford, Lost Roads, published Wright's first collection, Room Rented by A Single Woman. In 1983 she moved to Providence, Rhode Island to teach writing at Brown University as the Israel J. Kapstein Professor of English. In 2013, Wright was elected a chancellor of the Academy of American Poets. 

Wright died on January 12, 2016 from cancer in Barrington, Rhode Island at the age of 67.

[[Barrington, Rhode Island]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Rhode Island, 1770s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

Barrington (pronounced ') is a New England town in Bristol County, Rhode Island, United States. The population was 16,310 at the 2010 census.

In July 2005, CNN/Money and Money magazine ranked Barrington sixth on its list of the 100 best places to live in the United States.

[[The Revenant (2015 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning movies, 2015 drama movies, 2010s western movies, American drama movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Alejandro González Iñárritu

The Revenant is a 2015 American semi-biographical western movie set in 1823 Montana and South Dakota.

It was directed by Alejandro G. Iñárritu. It was written by Mark L. Smith and Iñárritu. It is based in part on Michael Punke's  The Revenant: A Novel of Revenge. It stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Tom Hardy, Will Poulter, and Domhnall Gleeson.

The Revenant premiered at the TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles on December 16, 2015 and had a limited release on December 25, 2015, followed by a wide release on January 8, 2016. It got really positive reviews. It won three Golden Globe Awards and five BAFTA Awards, including Best Film at both shows. At the 88th Academy Awards, the movie received 12 nominations, including Best Picture and Best Supporting Actor (Hardy), winning Best Director (Iñárritu), Best Actor (DiCaprio), and Best Cinematography (Emmanuel Lubezki).

[[Jay Roach]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning directors, 1957 births, Living people, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, Businesspeople from New Mexico, Writers from Albuquerque, New Mexico

Matthew Jay Roach (born June 14, 1957) is an American movie director, producer and screenwriter. He is best known for directing the Austin Powers movies and Meet the Parents. He also directed the comedy movie Dinner for Schmucks (2010), the HBO political dramas Recount (2008) and Game Change (2012), and the political comedy The Campaign (2012). His twelfth movie, the biographical drama Trumbo, was released on November 6, 2015 to positive reviews. He won two Emmy Awards (2008, 2012).

[[Richard Linklater]]

CATEGORIES: Golden Globe Award winning directors, BAFTA Award winning directors, 1960 births, Living people, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, Writers from Houston, Texas

Richard Stuart Linklater (ˈ; born July 30, 1960) is an American movie director, producer and screenwriter. He is known for his movies Dazed and Confused (1993), Before Sunrise (1995), Before Sunset (2004), Before Midnight (2013), School of Rock (2003), Waking Life (2001) and A Scanner Darkly (2006). 

In 2002 he began filming Boyhood (2014), a passion project which took over twelve years to finish. The movie was premiered in 2014 to critical acclaim. Linklater won the Golden Globe, Critics' Choice Movie Awards and BAFTAs for Best Director and Best Picture. He also received his first nomination for the Academy Award for Best Director, along with nominations for Original Screenplay and Picture.

[[Tera Wray]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Louisville, Kentucky, American pornographic actors, Suicides in California

Tera Lents (April 14, 1982 – January 13, 2016), better known by her stage name Tera Wray, was an American pornographic actress. She appeared in around 25 adult movies between 2007 and 2014.

Wray was born in Louisville, Kentucky. She was married to Wayne Static from 2008 until his death in 2014.

Wray died on January 13, 2016 in California, aged 33. Her death was reported as a suicide.

[[Ellen Meiksins Wood]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, American historians, American political scientists, Canadian Jews, Canadian scientists, Cancer deaths in Ontario, Jewish American scientists, Marxism

Ellen Meiksins Wood (April 12, 1942 – January 13, 2016) was an American-Canadian Marxist historian and scholar. She was a publisher of the Monthly Review from 1997 to 2000, along with Harry Magdoff and Paul Sweezy. She wrote over ten books. Her books The Retreat from Class and The Origin of Capitalism won awards. She was a leading Marxist theorist.

Wood was born in New York City. Her parents were Latvian Jews. She was married to Neal Wood until his death in 2003. They had two children. She was later married to politician Ed Broadbent.

Wood died from cancer on January 13, 2016 in Ottawa, Ontario. She was 73.

[[Jade (American band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 establishments in Illinois, 1990s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American R&B bands, Musical groups established in 1991, Musical groups from Chicago, Musical trios

Jade is an American hip hop-soul group. The group began in 1991. They split in 1997 and reformed in 2014. The group's members are Joi Marshall, Tonya Kelly and Myracle Holloway. The group is from Chicago.

The group had hit songs with "I Wanna Love You Down" and "Don't Walk Away" in 1992 and 1993. Their second album, Mind, Body & Song, was released in 1994.

[[Dave Sime]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2016 deaths, American Olympic silver medalists, American physicians, American track and field athletes, Cancer deaths in Florida, Medalists at the 1960 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from New Jersey

David William "Dave" Sime  (July 25, 1936 – January 12, 2016) was an American sprinter. He ranked as one of the fastest humans of all time. He held many sprint records during the late 1950s. He won a silver medal at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy. He later became an ophthalmologist (type of eye doctor) and pioneer of intraocular lens transplants.

Sime was born in Paterson, New Jersey. He grew up in Fair Lawn, New Jersey. He was married and had three children.

Sime died from cancer on January 12, 2016 in Miami, Florida. He was 79.

[[ASASSN-15lh]]

CATEGORIES: Supernovae, 2015, June 2015 events

ASASSN-15lh is a supernova detected on 14 June 2015. It is the most luminous supernova ever detected.  At its brightest it was 50 times brighter than the whole Milky Way.

The supernova is some 3.8 billion light-years from Earth. It was found by the All Sky Automated Survey for SuperNovae (ASAS-SN).

[[Francis Rossi]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, English rock guitarists, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Kent, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Singers from London

Sir Francis Dominic Nicholas Michael Rossi OBE (born 29 May 1949) is an English singer, songwriter and musician. He is best known as the co-founder, lead singer and lead guitarist of the rock band Status Quo. His genres mix from early psychedelic rock, hard rock, pop rock, blues rock/rock n roll even country rock and heavy metal. 

Rossi was born in Forest Hill, London. He is of Italian and Northern Irish ancestry. He is teetotal.

[[Kalevi Lehtovirta]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Finnish footballers

Kalevi Valdemar Lehtovirta (20 February 1928 – 10 January 2016) was a Finnish footballer. He played as a striker. He played for TuWe Turku, Pyrkivä Turku, Red Star, TPS, and the Finland national football team. He competed in the 1952 Summer Olympics. He was born in Turku.

Lehtovirta died on 10 January 2016 in Turku, aged 87.

[[Dime (United States coin)]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of the United States, 1792 establishments in the United States

The U.S. dime is a  coin of the United States. It is worth ten cents. The denomination was authorized by the Coinage Act of 1792. The design of the dime has changed since the dime was introduced.

[[Baby Got Back]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop songs, Obscenity controversies, 1992 songs

"Baby Got Back" is a 1992 hip hop song by Sir Mix-A-Lot. The song is about larger than normal buttocks. At the time of its release, some found the lyrics objectionable.

At the beginning of the song, two girls are talking. One says: "Oh my God, Becky. Look at her butt!"

The video of the song was banned by MTV for a short time.

The song was #1 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.

In late January 2013, a preview of the show Glee included a cover of "Baby Got Back". Jonathan Coulton claimed Glee copied his version of the song.

[[Alaric I]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history, Ancient Rome, Germanic peoples, 410s deaths

Alaric I, also Alaricus, (reigned 394–410 AD) was a leader of the Visigoths. He is famous as the Gothic leader who sacked the city of Rome in 410 AD.  Very little about his family is known. As a young man he received much of his military training in the Roman army. He next appears as a war leader of Gothic forces fighting along with Roman troops at the Battle of the Frigidus in 394. In January 395 the emperor Theodosius I died dividing his empire between his two sons. Alaric revolted and as the leader of the Visigoths he attacked parts of the Eastern Roman Empire. He later attacked the Western Roman Empire. In 408 he attempted to attack Rome but was bribed to leave. He returned two years later, defeated and occupied the city. He died in 411.

[[Dickin Medal]]

CATEGORIES: Military honors, Military animals

The PDSA Dickin Medal is an award for animals.  It was created in the United Kingdom, by Maria Dickin, in 1943.  At first, the award's goal was to honor the work of animals during World War II.  The award is often called "the animals' Victoria Cross."

Maria Dickin was the creator of the People's Dispensary for Sick Animals (PDSA), a British veterinary charity.  She created the award for any animal who showed "conspicuous gallantry bravery" and devotion to its job while serving with the United Kingdom's armed forces or their allies.  The Medal was awarded 54 times between 1943 and 1949 – to 32 pigeons, 18 dogs, three horses, and one cat.

The PDSA started awarding the Dickin Medal again in 2000.  In that year, they honored a Newfoundland dog named Gander.  The award was given posthumously - after Gander's death.  During the Battle of Hong Kong in World War II, Gander had saved the lives of Canadian soldiers.

In early 2002, three dogs were awarded the Dickin Medal for their work in responding to the September 11 attacks.  The PDSA also awarded the Medal to two dogs serving with the British military in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Iraq. 

In December 2007, 12 animals who had received the Dickin Medal and were buried at the PDSA Animal Cemetery in Ilford, Essex, were given full military honors.  This marked the end of a project to restore the cemetery, which was aided by the United Kingdom's National Lottery.

The first recipients of the Medal, in December 1943, were three pigeons.  Serving with the Royal Air Force, all three helped make it possible to rescue air crew from ditched planes during the Second World War. The most recent animal to receive the Medal was Diesel, a dog who was killed while serving with the French police during the November 2015 Paris attacks.  Diesel's award will be presented in a ceremony in 2016.  As of December 2015, the Dickin Medal has been awarded 66 times.

[[Irma Khetsuriani]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, Abkhazia, Fencers, Sportspeople from Georgia (country)

Irma Khetsuriani (ირმა ხეცურიანი) is a wheelchair fencer from Georgia.  She tried to help women and sportspeople with disabilities in Georgia. She is the first woman to be a member of the Georgia national wheelchair fencing team. She works for the Georgian Paralympic Committee as an office manager.

[[Boulton & Watt]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering, 1775 establishments, Machines, Engineering companies of the United Kingdom

Boulton & Watt was an early British engineering and manufacturing firm. They were very significant in the early industrial revolution. The partners were the English manufacturer Matthew Boulton and the Scottish engineer James Watt.

The firm designed and made marine and stationary steam engines. It was founded in the English West Midlands around Birmingham in 1775, and grew to be a major producer of steam engines in the 19th century.

The Boulton and Watt steam engine was the first to use steam at above atmospheric pressure. This was a great step in the development of the steam engine. Watt's invention was a key point in the Industrial Revolution.

Their engines were used for pumping water in canals, mines, and waterworks, and for driving machines.

[[Province of Lugo]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Spain, Galicia

Lugo is a province of northwestern Spain, in the northeastern part of the autonomous community of Galicia. It is bordered by the provinces of Ourense, Pontevedra, and A Coruña, the principality of Asturias, León, and in the north by the Cantabrian Sea (Bay of Biscay). 

The population is 356,595 (2006), of whom a quarter live in the capital Lugo. The capital city was an ancient Celtic settlement named in honour of the god Lugh (see Lyon), later Latinised as Lucus Augusti, and which became one of the three main important Galician-Roman centres alongside Braccara Augusta and Asturica Augusta (modern Braga and Astorga respectively). The province has 67 municipalities.

[[Pareto distribution]]

CATEGORIES: Probability distributions

[[P. J. Mara]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Civil servants, Disease-related deaths in the Republic of Ireland, Irish politicians

Patrick James "P. J." Mara (1942 – 15 January 2016) was an Irish public affairs consultant and former senator. He was best known as a political adviser to former Taoiseach Charles Haughey. He served briefly in the Seanad on two separate occasions, in 1981 and 1982. He was nominated by the Taoiseach Charles Haughey. 

Mara served as Press Secretary to Fianna Fáil between 1983 and 1987. In 1987 he was appointed Government Press Secretary, and he held this position until February 1992, when he left the public service to move into the private sector. He later returned to serve as Fianna Fáil director of elections for the  1997, 2002, and 2007 general elections.

He was regularly lampooned on the satirical RTÉ radio sketch show Scrap Saturday, which ran from 1989 to 1991.

Mara died on 15 January 2016 at a hospital after a long-illness in Dublin, Ireland at the age of 73. 

[[Wally Wingert]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Actors from Des Moines, Iowa, Singers from Iowa, American television presenters, American voice actors

Wallace Eugene Wingert (born August 16, 1961) is an American actor, voice actor, singer, performer and former radio personality. He is best known as the announcer for the second incarnation of  The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, and the current voice of Jon Arbuckle in The Garfield Show. He is also known for his role as one of the Almighty Tallest in Invader Zim (along with Kevin McDonald), Ant-Man/Giant-Man from The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes, the Riddler from the Batman: Arkham video game series, and Renji Abarai from Bleach.

[[George Carroll (judge)]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, American judges, American lawyers, American mayors, American civil rights activists, Politicians from Brooklyn, Politicians from California, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Richmond, California

George Carroll (January 6, 1922 – January 14, 2016) was an American lawyer. He was an important civic figure in Contra Costa County, California and the city of Richmond. He was born in Brooklyn, New York.

He was the first black lawyer in Richmond, California. In 1961 Carroll became the first African American elected to the city council (1961–1964) and later became the first black mayor of Richmond (1964–1965) or any large American city.

Carroll died in his sleep on January 14, 2015 in Richmond, California from respiratory failure at the age of 94.

[[Gastón Guzmán]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Mexican scientists, Mexican writers, Mexican educators, Mexican anthropologists, People from Veracruz

Gastón Guzmán (August 26, 1932 – January 12, 2016) was a Mexican mycologist and anthropologist. He was an authority on the genus Psilocybe. He was born in Xalapa, Veracruz. 

[[Kiwi Travel International Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in New Zealand, Airlines of Oceania, 1994 establishments in Oceania, 1996 disestablishments, 1990s establishments in New Zealand

Kiwi Travel International Airlines was a discount airline from New Zealand. It flew both scheduled (planned) and charters (irregular/unplanned) flights from New Zealand to Australia, Samoa and Tonga. The airline borrowed airplanes from many different companies.At different times, it flew Boeing 727, Boeing 737, Boeing 757 and Airbus A320 airplanes. The airline was among one of the first low-cost carriers. In December 1995, Air New Zealand started Freedom Air. It was another discount airline intended to compete with Kiwi. In September 1996, Kiwi Travel stopped flying due to the intense competition from Freedom Air. Ewan Wilson, the former CEO of Kiwi Travel International, is involved with starting a new airline, Kiwi Regional Airlines.

[[Qaisra Shahraz]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Pakistani writers, Living people

Qaisra Shahraz  (born 1959) is a British-Pakistani novelist and scriptwriter, college inspector, teacher and freelance journalist.

[[Bano Qudsia]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Pakistani writers

Bano Qudsia (28 November 1928 –  4 February 2017) is a Pakistani writer. She wrote mostly in Urdu. Her most famous novel was Raja Gidh (published in 1981). She wrote more than forty novels and plays. She was born in Firozpur, Punjab, India.

Qudsia died on 4 February 2017 in Lahore at the age of 88.

[[Musa (genus)]]

CATEGORIES: Monocots

Musa is one of two or three genera in the family Musaceae; it includes bananas and plantains. Around 70 species of Musa are known, with a broad variety of uses.

Many bananas and plantains grow as high as trees, but they are not woody. Their apparent "stem" is made up of the bases of the huge leaf stalks. For this reason, they are technically gigantic herbs.

Musa species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species, including the giant leopard moth and other Hypercompe species, including H. albescens (only recorded on Musa), H. eridanus, and H. icasia.

[[Breakwater]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures

Breakwaters are structures built to protect structures along a coastline against the impact of waves. They reduce the intensity of waves, and lessen the amount of erosion.

[[Oleksandr Shevchenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, Ukrainian educators, Historians, Judges, Ukrainian politicians, Ukrainian scientists

Oleksandr Oksentiyovych Shevchenko (Олександр Оксеньтійович Шевченко; 26 June 1937 – 15 January 2016) was a Ukrainian scientist, judge, politician, and teacher. He was the deputy of the Svoboda party from 2012 to 2014. He was later a member of the Petro Poroshenko Bloc until 15 September 2015. He supported the right to bear arms and was against the death penalty. He was born in Simferopol Raion, Crimea, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union.

Shevchenko died on 15 January 2016 at the age of 78.

[[Manuel Velázquez]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2016 deaths, Spanish footballers, Sportspeople from Madrid

Manuel Velázquez Villaverde (24 January 1943 – 15 January 2016) was a Spanish footballer. He played as a striker. He played for Plus Ultra, Rayo Vallecano, Málaga, Real Madrid, and Toronto Metros-Croatia. He also played for the Spain national football team. He was born in Madrid.

Velázquez died on 15 January 2016 in Madrid, aged 72.

[[Rajesh Vivek]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, 1949 births, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, Actors from Uttar Pradesh

Rajesh Vivek Upadhyay (31 January 1949 – 14 January 2016) was an Indian actor. He was best known for his roles in Lagaan, Swades, Mahabharat, Mujhse Shaadi Karogi, Bharat Ek Khoj, What's Your Raashee? and Bunty Aur Babli. He was born in Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh.

Vivek died from heart attack on 14 January 2016 in Hyderabad, Telangana. He was 66.

[[Lycra]]

CATEGORIES: Fibers, Woven fabrics

Lycra is a type of synthetic fabric that is very elastic. It is also called Spandex or elastane. The name "spandex" is an anagram of the word "expands".

Lycra was invented in 1958 , United States. It was invented by Joseph Shivers, a chemist. It is made from a combination of polyester and polyurethane.

Because of its elasticity and strength, lycra is often used to make clothing. It is commonly mixed with cotton to make things like tights, bras,Lycra shirt,Dr199 and underwear. Lycra is especially common in sports clothing, such as wrestling singlets. It is also often used to make swimsuits and wetsuits, because lycra dries more quickly than many other fabrics.

Types of Lycra Fabric

Aside from the varied manufacturing processes that can be used to make this fabric, there are no distinct differences between Lycra, elastane, and spandex. It is, however, important to know more about each term:

Lycra: As a registered trademark of the DuPont corporation, the "Lycra" brand is one of the most reliable and high-quality forms of elastane fabric on the market. However, elastane that has been branded as Lycra can sometimes cost more than other types of spandex

Elastane: The term "elastane" is most commonly used in Europe, and each continental European language has a slightly different version of this word. Elastane is the most technically correct term used to describe these polyether-polyurea copolymer fabrics.

Spandex: Despite the persistence of a common misconception, spandex is not a registered trademark of any company. Instead, it is the term that DuPont originally used to describe their polyurethane fabric during the development process. "Spandex" is an anagram of "expands," and the attractive simplicity of this name has made it the preferred term for referring to elastane products in the United States and elsewhere.

Where Is Lycra Fabric Produced?

Lycra is a trademark of DuPont, and it is only made by this international corporation. DuPont has manufacturing locations in more than 90 countries, which means that this fabric could be made in any number of areas around the world.

Overall, the international spandex industry has shifted eastward in the last few decades as China has risen to the fore as the dominant manufacturing power in the world. DuPont has a number of factories in China, and many other companies also manufacture spandex in this country.

The future of Lycra fabric production around the world looks bright. A ReportBuyer report from 2018 indicates that this fabric will continue to be made in greater and greater quantities until at least 2023, and all signs indicate that this production boom will continue far past this projected date.

ow

Does Lycra Fabric Impact the Environment

The production of Lycra is not considered to be inherently detrimental to the environment. While it's true that the production of elastane fabrics requires high levels of energy and the use of a variety of toxic chemicals, unlike fabrics like nylon, the raw ingredients for Lycra are not derived from non-renewable resources like petroleum oil.

Instead, these ingredients are fully synthesized in laboratory settings, and DuPont is one of the world's leaders in sustainable and safe elastane manufacturing processes. There's no getting around the fact that the production of Lycra involves carcinogenic chemicals, but scientific research has indicated that elastane factory workers in Sweden exhibit negligibly greater cancer risk, which seems to indicate that workplaces in which this material is made are not very hazardous. No studies have been done, however, to examine the impact of elastane production on workers in other countries.

[[Thomas Newcomen]]

CATEGORIES: 1664 births, 1729 deaths, British engineers, British inventors

Thomas Newcomen (February 1664 – 5 August 1729) was an English inventor. He made the first practical steam engine for pumping water, the Newcomen steam engine.

Newcomen was an ironmonger and a Baptist lay preacher.  He was born in Dartmouth, Devon, England, to a merchant family and baptised at St. Saviour's Church on 24 February 1664.

Flooding in coal and tin mines was a large problem. Newcomen was trying to improve ways to pump out the water from the mines. His ironmonger's business specialised in tools for the mining industry.

His first engine was not very efficient, and used a lot of coal. The Watt steam engine, was much more fuel efficient. Watt and his partner Matthew Boulton got substantial royalties because their machines saved so much on fuel bills.

[[Superphylum]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy

A superphylum is an unofficial grade in taxonomy, above the phylum and below the subregnum, used to describe a group of phyla which probably evolved from a common ancestor.

It is used especially in the animal kingdom. Examples:

[[Chinese name]]

CATEGORIES: Names, Chinese language

Chinese names (姓名) are names for people in Chinese languages. They are mostly used by Chinese people, but some Korean people and Vietnamese people also use forms of Chinese names.

Modern Chinese names are made up of a surname and a personal name. The surname (xìng 姓) appears first. It is usually only one syllable. The personal name (míng 名) appears second. It is nearly always either one or two syllables. When written, each syllable is written with one character. So a person's name will usually be written with two or three characters. For example, Wei (伟) of the Zhang (张) family – currently China's most common single name – is called "Zhang Wei" and written as 张伟.

Before the 20th century, educated Chinese people also used a "courtesy name" or "style name" (zì 字). This is the name by which they were known among those outside of their family and friends.

[[Lennie Bluett]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American dancers, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Singers from Los Angeles, California

Lennie Bluett (January 21, 1919 – January 1, 2016), was an American actor, pianist, dancer and singer. He was born in Los Angeles, California. Bluett played a soldier in Gone With the Wind in 1939. He also appeared in Mighty Joe Young and in A Star Is Born.

Bluett died on January 1, 2016 in Los Angeles at the age of 96.

[[Conrad Phillips]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, British movie actors, British television actors, British radio actors, Actors from London

Conrad Phillips (born Conrad Philip Havord; 13 April 1925 – 13 January 2016) was a British movie and television actor. He was born in London, England. He was known for playing William Tell in The Adventures of William Tell and for guest-star role as Mr. Lloyd in Fawlty Towers.

Phillips died in Chippenham, Wiltshire from complications of pneumonia at the age of 90.

[[Household]]

CATEGORIES: Everyday life, Economics

In economics, a household is the name given to a number of people who live in the same place, and who share a number of things. Very often, this is the case with a family, but this need not be the case. People living in the same household profit, because they can share some of the expenses.

[[Eddie Robinson (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, Cleveland Indians players, Minnesota Twins players, Chicago White Sox players, New York Yankees players, Detroit Tigers players, Baltimore Orioles players, Sportspeople from Texas, Writers from Texas, People from Paris, Texas

William Edward Robinson (born December 15, 1920) is an American Major League Baseball first baseman, scout, coach and front office executive of the 1940s, 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. He is the author of an autobiography, published in 2011, entitled Lucky Me: My Sixty-five Years in Baseball.

Robinson was born in Paris, Texas. He studied at Pairs Junior College. His career began in September 1942.

Robinson played for the Cleveland Indians in 1942, again from 1946 through 1948 and lastly in 1957. He also played for the Washington Senators from 1949 through 1950, for the Chicago White Sox from 1950 through 1952, the Philadelphia Athletics in 1953, the New York Yankees from 1954 through 1956, the Detroit Tigers in 1957, and for the Baltimore Orioles in 1957.

Following the death of Val Heim on November 21, 2019, Robinson became the oldest living player.

[[TAP Portugal]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Europe, Portugal, Star Alliance, 1945 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Portugal, IATA members

TAP Portugal is the flag carrier airline of Portugal. Its headquarters and hub are at Lisbon Portela Airport. TAP operates about 2,000 flights a week to 88 destinations in 38 countries worldwide.

[[XTRA Airways]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the United States, 1987 establishments in the United States, Miami, Florida, 1980s establishments in Florida

XTRA Airways is a charter airline from the United States. It began in 1987. It was first known as "Casino Express Airlines". In 2005, it was renamed "XTRA Airways". The airline's headquarters are in Coral Gables, Florida. As of 2016, XTRA has 9 airplanes.

[[Googleplex]]

CATEGORIES: Google, Mountain View, California, Buildings and structures in California

Googleplex is the head office of Google, Inc. The office is located at 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway in Mountain View, Santa Clara County, California, United States, near San Jose.

The original complex has 2,000,000 square feet (190,000 m2) of office space. It is the company's second largest building. The Bay View addition to the building was added in 2015. This made it part of the biggest collection of Google buildings. It has 3,100,000 square feet (290,000 m2) of space.

[[Rudolf Höss]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1947 deaths, Colonels, Executed German people, Executed Nazis, German war criminals, Holocaust perpetrators, People executed by hanging, People from Baden-Württemberg, SS officers, Waffen-SS people

Rudolf Franz Ferdinand Höss (also spelled Höß, Hoeß, or Hoess) (25 November 1900 – 16 April 1947) was a high-ranking member of the Nazi Schutzstaffel (SS) during World War II.  He was in charge of Auschwitz concentration camp for about four years.

During World War II, Nazi Germany, led by Adolf Hitler, decided to exterminate (kill all of) the Jewish people in Europe.  They called this plan the "Final Solution".  The Nazis also sent many other people to concentration camps and extermination camps (death camps).  As Commandant (commander) at Auschwitz, Höss tested and started using different ways of killing these people more quickly.  He started using Zyklon B, a pesticide with hydrogen cyanide in it, to kill prisoners in gas chambers.  This allowed Nazi soldiers at Auschwitz to murder 2,000 people every hour.  At Auschwitz, he created the largest place meant for the constant mass murder of human beings ever known in history.

Höss joined the Nazi Party in 1922, and joined the SS in 1934.  From 4 May 1940 to November 1943, and again from 8 May 1944 to 18 January 1945, he was in charge of Auschwitz.  Before Nazi Germany lost World War II, more than a million people were murdered at Auschwitz.  Höss was hanged in 1947 after he was found guilty at a trial in Warsaw, Poland.

[[Bloons Tower Defense]]

CATEGORIES: Mobile games

Bloons Tower Defense (also Bloons TD or BTD) are a series of tower-defense games that were created by Ninja Kiwi. The focus of the games is to use towers to defeat an enemy called Bloons to progress through the game. As you play the game, the Bloons become more difficult to defeat. Players are able to upgrade their towers to help defeat stronger enemies. Bloons can come with power ups, such as camouflage and regeneration. Most of the Tower Defense games can be played on computers and mobile/tablets.

[[Tower defense]]

CATEGORIES: Types of video games, Video game genres

Tower Defense is a type of game where players use strategy to build towers to help defeat an enemy. In many tower defence games the player's towers must stop an enemy from invading a base. If the towers cannot stop the enemy, the player loses the game.

[[Mel Tillis]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in Florida, American country musicians, American singer-songwriters, American guitarists, Singers from Florida, Writers from Tampa, Florida

Lonnie Melvin "Mel" Tillis (August 8, 1932 – November 19, 2017) was an American country music singer and songwriter. He recorded songs since the late 1950s. His biggest success occurred in the 1970s, with a long list of Top 10 hits. His biggest hits include "I Ain't Never", "Good Woman Blues", and "Coca-Cola Cowboy". 

[[Noreen Corcoran]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Massachusetts, American child actors, American dancers, American movie actors, American pop singers, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Singers from California, Singers from Massachusetts

Noreen M. Corcoran (October 20, 1943 – January 15, 2016) was an American actress, singer and dancer. Her career began in 1951. She was best known for her co-starring role as the teenager Kelly Gregg in the television sitcom Bachelor Father. She also appeared in movies such as Gidget Goes to Rome and in The Girls on the Beach. She retired in 1965.

Corcoran was born in Quincy, Massachusetts. She studied at California State University. Corcoran died in Van Nuys, Los Angeles, California from heart and lung disease (cardiopulmonary disease) at the age of 72.

[[William Craig (philosopher)]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2016 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, German philosophers, American philosophers, American educators, People from Nuremberg

William Craig (November 13, 1918 – January 13, 2016) was an German-born American professor of Philosophy at University of California, Berkeley. His interests included mathematical logic, and philosophy of science. He was mostly known for the Craig interpolation theorem. Craig received his Ph.D. at Harvard University in 1951.

Craig died in Berkeley, California at the age of 97.

[[Abbey Simon]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2019 deaths, American pianists, American educators, Musicians from New York City

Abbey Simon (January 8, 1922 – December 18, 2019) was an American concert pianist, teacher, and recording artist. He was a student of Josef Hofmann at the Curtis Institute of Music. He was the winner of the Naumburg International Piano Competition in 1940.  He was called a "supervirtuoso" by the New York Times.

Simon was born in New York City, New York. He studied at Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. His career began in 1940. Simon died in Geneva on December 18, 2019 at the age of 99.

[[Rudolf Haag]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, German academics, German physicists, Theoretical physicists

Rudolf Haag (17 August 1922 – 5 January 2016) was a German theoretical physicist. He was born in Tübingen, Germany.

He was best known for his works to the algebraic formulation of axiomatic quantum field theory, namely the Haag-Kastler axioms

, and a central no-go theorem in QFT, Haag's theorem, which demonstrates the nonexistence of a unitary time-evolution operator in the interaction picture.

In 1965 he founded the journal Communications in Mathematical Physics, which he guided as Chief Editor for eight years.

He was awarded the Max Planck medal in 1970 and the Henri Poincaré Prize of the International Association of Mathematical Physics in 1997.

Haag died on 5 January 2016 at the age of 93.

[[Jean-Noël Rey]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2016 deaths, Murders by firearm, Socialist politicians, Swiss politicians

Jean-Noël Rey (23 December 1949 – 16 January 2016) was a Swiss socialist politician. He was the Secretary of the Socialist Group of the Federal Assembly of Switzerland. He was a member of the National Council of Switzerland between 2003 and 2007. He was also the CEO of the national postal service Swiss Post.

Rey was born in Sierre. He was married twice and had two children.

Rey was shot and killed by terrorists on 16 January 2016 in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. He was 66.

[[Francisco X. Alarcón]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2016 deaths, American educators, American poets, Gay men, LGBT people from Los Angeles, California, LGBT poets, Stanford University alumni

Francisco Xavier Alarcón (February 21, 1954 – January 15, 2016) was an American poet and educator. He was awarded the American Book Award for Snake Poems in 1993. He taught at University of California, Davis. He published over twenty works of poetry between 1985 and 2010. He wrote poetry in English, Spanish and Nahuatl. His works were often translated into other languages including Gaelic and Swedish.

[[Carina Jaarnek]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Disease-related deaths in Sweden, Soul musicians, Swedish singers

Eva Carina Kvistborg Jaarnek (26 December 1962 – 16 January 2016), better known as Carina Jaarnek, was a Swedish singer. She was a member of several dansbands during the 1970s and 1980s, most notably Carina Jaarneks orkester. She recorded many songs with Elvis Presley artists.

Jaarnek was born in Säbrå, Ångermanland. She was married to her manager Niels Kvist Borg and had two daughters. Her sister, Towe, is also a singer.

Jarrnek died from a brain haemorrhage on 16 January 2016 in Stockholm, aged 53.

[[Lawrence H. Cohn]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, American educators, American Jews, American physicians, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Massachusetts, Deaths from stroke

Lawrence Harvey Cohn (March 11, 1937 – January 9, 2016) was an American heart surgeon, researcher, and medical educator. He was best known for his heart valve repair and replacement surgeries. He was on the surgical staff at Harvard Medical School from 1971 until his death. He was also Professor of Surgery at Harvard Medical School from 1980 until his death. He was awarded the Chair in Cardiac Surgery at Harvard Medical School in 2000.

Cohn was born in San Francisco, California. His family was Jewish. He was married and had two daughters.

Cohen died from a stroke on January 9, 2016 in Boston, Massachusetts. He was 78.

[[Batch file]]

CATEGORIES: Computer programming

A batch file is a special kind of computer file that tells a computer a list of instructions to do in order. Batch files were used a lot when DOS was used by many people. They are good for automating many small pieces of work. Some people still use batch files today.

[[Demand forecasting]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Commerce, Economic theories

Demand forecasting is when a business predicts future demand for its products. A business looks at many things when they do demand forecasting. Some of these things are past sales, data from test markets, and statistics. Businesses can also use educated guesses to help predict future demand. Businesses use demand forecasting to help them come up with the amount of demand for their products so they know how much supply to make.

[[Aldebaran]]

CATEGORIES: Red giants

Aldebaran (α Tau, α Tauri, Alpha Tauri) is an orange giant star. It is about 65 light years away in the zodiac constellation of Taurus. With an average apparent magnitude of 0.87 it is the brightest star in the constellation and is one of the brightest stars in the nighttime sky. The name Aldebaran is Arabic (الدبران ar) and means "the Follower", presumably because it rises near and soon after the Pleiades. The diameter of Aldebaran is larger than 50 million kilometers.

In 1993 a companion body was reported. A paper recently accepted shows evidence for a planetary companion.

[[Tau Ceti]]

CATEGORIES: Stars

Tau Ceti (τ Cet, τ Ceti) is a star in the constellation Cetus. It can be seen with the unaided eye as a third-magnitude star.

It has a spectrum similar to the Sun, but is only 78% of the Sun's mass. It is just under 12 light-years from the Solar System, a relatively nearby star. It is the closest solitary G-class star. The star appears stable, and is "metal-deficient" because (like the Sun) it is mostly made of hydrogen and helium.

There is more than ten times as much dust surrounding Tau Ceti as in the Solar System. There are probably five planets orbiting Tau Ceti,  two in the habitable zone. Because of its debris disk, any planet orbiting Tau Ceti would get far more impact events than Earth. Despite this, its Sun-like characteristics have led to widespread interest in the star. Tau Ceti is consistently listed as a target for the Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI), and it appears in some science fiction literature.

[[Oliver Jeffers]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, British children's writers, People from Belfast, British illustrators

Oliver Jeffers (born 1977) is an artist, illustrator and writer from Belfast, Northern Ireland. He now lives and works in Brooklyn, New York. He graduated from the University of Ulster in 2001. He creates art for children and adult alike.

His picture books, including 'How to catch a star, Lost and found, Stuck have been highly acclaimed.  This Moose Belongs to Me won the Irish Book Awards Children's Book of 

the Year, Junior category in 2012.

Originally from Belfast, Oliver now lives and works in Brooklyn, New York. His favourite colour is striped.

Here is a list of books that Oliver has illustrated:

The Day the Crayons Quit,

How to Catch a Star,

Lost and Found,

The Way Back Home,

Up and Down,

Oliver Jeffers presents the Incredible Book Eating Boy,

the Great Paper Caper,

The Heart and the Bottle,

Stuck,

This Moose Belongs To Me,

The Hueys in The New Jumper,

The Hueys in It Wasn't Me,

The Hueys in None the Number (A counting Adventure,) 

Once Upon an Alphabet (Short stories For all the Letters.)

In 2013, Jeffers illustrated the vinyl record cover for the U2 song "Ordinary Love". It is a drawing of Nelson Mandela. 

[[Blowfly (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, African American comedians, African-American singers, American funk musicians, American hip hop musicians, American punk musicians, American R&B singers, American soul singers, American rap musicians from Georgia, American record producers, American funk singers, American rock singers, American singer-songwriters, American soul musicians, Cancer deaths in Florida, Comedians from Georgia (U.S. state), Deaths from liver cancer, Singers from Georgia (U.S. state)

Clarence Henry Reid (February 14, 1939 – January 17, 2016), better known by the stage name Blowfly, was an American musician, singer-songwriter, comedian, rapper and producer. He released over 25 parody albums as "Blowfly" and another three albums as "Clarence Reid". He also wrote ten songs for Gwen McCrae.

Blowfly was born in Cochran, Georgia. His daughter, Tracy Reid, was a professional basketball player.

Blowfly died from liver cancer on January 17, 2016 in Florida, aged 76.

[[Bob Harkey]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, American racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Charlotte, North Carolina

Bob Harkey (June 23, 1930 – January 16, 2016) was an American racecar driver. He was in the USAC Championship Car series. He raced in the 1963–1979 seasons. He had 85 career starts, including the Indianapolis 500 in 1964, 1971 and 1973–1976. He finished in the top ten 23 times. His best finish in 4th position in 1964. He was born in Charlotte, North Carolina.

Harkley died on January 16, 2016 in Indianapolis, Indiana, aged 85.

[[Nazi eugenics]]

CATEGORIES: Eugenics, Nazism, Nazi Germany, The Holocaust

Nazi eugenics were a set of beliefs and rules that were very important to Nazi Germany during World War II.  These beliefs said that the Aryan race was the master race – the best race of all – and all other races were inferior (not as good).  There were also many other people who the Nazis believed were "life unworthy of life," like people with disabilities.  These ideas about eugenics were at the center of the Nazis' beliefs and eventually helped lead to the Holocaust.

Because they did not want these "inferior" people in German society, the Nazis decided to get rid of them, using many different strategies.  They began with people with disabilities.  The Nazis forced more than 400,000 people with disabilities to be sterilized (to have surgery that would make it impossible for them to have children).  They also killed over 300,000 people with disabilities in a program called Action T4.  In this program, the Nazis sent people with disabilities to places like Hadamar  and Hartheim Euthanasia Centres to be killed.  These people were killed with lethal injections and poison gas, in vans and gas chambers at the Euthanasia Centres.

Using what they learned by killing people with disabilities, the Nazis soon built extermination camps (death camps).  The Nazis' goal was to use these death camps to exterminate (kill all of) the Jewish and Roma people in Europe.  The Nazis also sent many other people who they thought were inferior to the death camps and to concentration camps, where they were forced to work as slaves.

[[Bern Herbolsheimer]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in the United States, American composers, American pianists, People from Great Falls, Montana, Musicians from Montana, Musicians from Seattle, Washington

Bern Herbolsheimer (September 2, 1948 – January 13, 2016) was an American composer and pianist. He was born in Great Falls, Montana. Herbolsheimer served on the music faculty at Cornish College in Seattle. He performed for the National Endowment for the Arts and for the Chamber Music America. He has composed over 500 pieces of work. 

Herbolsheimer died of cancer in Seattle, Washington, aged 67.

[[Gottfried Honegger]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2016 deaths, Swiss artists, Swiss educators, People from Zürich

Gottfried Honegger (12 June 1917 – 17 January 2016) was a Swiss artist and graphic designer. From 1955 through 1958, he was art director at Geigy. He worked at the University of Dallas until his death in 2016.

Honegger was born in Zürich, Switerland. He was married to the Swiss illustrator Warja Lavater. He studied shop-window display at the Zurich Kunstgewerbeschule and taught there from 1948. His early work was commercial graphic design. Honegger died at his home in Zürich, Switzerland from a short-illness, aged 98.

[[Paris School of Business]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s establishments in France, 1974 establishments in Europe, Colleges and universities in France, Paris, Rennes

Paris School of Business (formerly the ESG Management School) is a European business school. The school has two locations, one in Paris and one in Rennes, France. It was created in 1974. PSB offers degrees in the fields of economics, social sciences, luxury markets, arts and management.

[[Monster Strike]]

CATEGORIES: Mobile games, 2013 video games

Monster Strike (モンスターストライク: Monsutā Sutoraiku) is a mobile game with elements of RPGs, strategy games and cooperative multiplayer. It is developed by Mixi for the iOS and Android platforms. The game was co-created by Yoshiki Okamoto. In Japan, its name is often shortened to MonSt. As of June 30, 2015, the game has daily revenues of $4.2 million. A more traditional RPG of Monster Strike was released for the Nintendo 3DS in December 2015.

[[Tobacco mosaic virus]]

CATEGORIES: Viruses, Diseases and disorders of plants

The tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) was the first virus to be discovered. That is to say, it was the first to be known as a virus.

It is a single stranded RNA virus which infects many plants, especially tobacco and other members of the family Solanaceae.  The infection causes "mosaic"-like discolouration on the leaves. Although it was known from the late 19th century that an infectious disease was damaging tobacco crops, it was not until 1930 that the infectious agent was known to be a virus.

[[Business school]]

CATEGORIES: Schools, Colleges and universities, Types of educational institutions, Business

A business school is a university-level school that offers degrees in a variety of business-related subjects. It may often be a department or institution within a university or it can be a separate school. Instead of a general education, business schools prepare students to enter into the business world. ESCP Europe is considered to be the world's oldest business school.

[[Martinair]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 establishments in Europe, Airlines of Europe, Companies of the Netherlands, Transport in the Netherlands, 20th century establishments in the Netherlands

Martinair is currently a cargo airline from The Netherlands. It started in 1958. In 1991, Martinair started flying cargo. KLM became the only shareholder of Martinair in December 2008. Originally, Martinair flew passengers. On October 30, 2011, Martinair stopped flying passengers and now only flies cargo.

[[Close Encounters of the Third Kind]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 movies, 1970s science fiction movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Steven Spielberg, Columbia Pictures movies

Close Encounters of the Third Kind is an 1977 American science fiction movie written and directed by Steven Spielberg, and starring Richard Dreyfuss, Teri Garr, Melinda Dillon, Bob Balaban, Cary Guffey, and François Truffaut. The movie tells the story about Roy Neary, an everyday blue-collar worker in Indiana, whose life changes after an encounter with an undentified flying object (UFO).

Made on a production budget of $19.4 million, Close Encounters was released in a limited number of cities on November 16, 1977 and November 23, 1977 before expanding into wide release the following month. It was a critical and commercial success, grossing over $300 million worldwide. The movie received numerous awards and nominations at the 50th Academy Awards, 32nd British Academy Film Awards, the 35th Golden Globe Awards and the 5th Saturn Awards, and has been widely acclaimed at the American Film Institute.

[[Alcide De Gasperi]]

CATEGORIES: 1881 births, 1954 deaths, Former MEPs, MEPs for Italy, Presidents of the European Parliament, Prime Ministers of Italy

Alcide Amedeo Francesco De Gasperi (3 April 1881 – 19 August 1954) was an Italian politician who started the Christian Democracy party, and helped to start the Council of Europe and the European Coal and Steel Community.

He was the Prime Minister of Italy for eight years, between 1945 and 1953. That is longer than any other Italian prime minister except Benito Mussolini, who was a dictator.

De Gasperi was born in Austria-Hungary, and did not become an Italian citizen until after the First World War. In 1927, he was put in prison for one and a half years because he did not support Mussolini's Fascist government. Mussolini released him from prison because the Pope asked him to.

[[Water tower]]

CATEGORIES: Water infrastructure

A water tower is a building that is used to hold and give out water. It is almost always built on a high place. It works because a pump gives water to the tower, and gravity makes the saved water go out to the places that need water. Those places are connected to the tower by pipes. A water tower is good when there is no power because it uses gravity to send out the water.

[[Notary]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Occupations

A notary is a person who has learned some laws and has been appointed by a government to do some certain things using those laws. A notary is most often used to witness signatures on legal papers. A notary does this to help stop fraud and to help a person prove that they are who they say they are. Notaries in some locations can also perform marriage ceremonies.

[[Gaheris]]

CATEGORIES: Arthurian legend, Fictional knights

Gaheris is a legendary character, a member of the Knights of the Round Table in Arthurian legend. He was a nephew of King Arthur. He was the third son of Arthur's sister Morgause and her husband Sir Lot. He was described as being valiant, agile, handsome, and his left arm was shorter than his right arm.  He was killed by Lancelot in the Prose Lancelot He was Sir Gawain's brother. 

[[S7 Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 establishments in Russia, Airlines of Asia, Transport in Russia

S7 Airlines is a Russian airline. It is the second largest airline. It was created in May 1992. Originally, it was named Siberia Airlines. In 1994, the airline joined IATA. The airline's name was changed to S7 Airlines in 2005. In 2010, the airline joined Oneworld. S7 Airlines stopped flying Soviet planes in 2008. As of 2015, the airline has Airbus A319s, Airbus A320s, Airbus A321s, Boeing 737s and Boeing 767s.

[[Crispus Attucks]]

CATEGORIES: 1723 births, 1770 deaths, People from Massachusetts, African-American people, American revolutionaries, Slaves, Native American people, Deaths by firearm in the United States

Crispus Attucks (circa 1723 – March 5, 1770) was the first person to die in the Boston Massacre.  This made him the first American to die in the American Revolutionary War.  After being killed at the Boston Massacre, Attucks became a martyr of the American Revolution.  He also became a symbol for the abolitionist (anti-slavery) movement, both in the 18th century and the 19th century.

Attucks had a big impact on important historical events like the American Revolution and the abolitionist movement.  However, he continues to have an impact on American culture today.  Even 250 years after his death, modern songs, stories, and television shows still talk about Attucks.  Children go to schools that are named after him.  In 2002, Attucks was named one of the "100 Greatest African Americans" in United States History.

[[Glenn Frey]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, 1948 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Deaths from pneumonia, American singer-songwriters, American guitarists, American rock musicians, American country musicians, American painters, American movie actors, Musicians from Detroit, Michigan, Singers from Detroit, Michigan, Writers from Detroit, Michigan, Actors from Detroit, Michigan

Glenn Lewis Frey (f) (November 6, 1948 – January 18, 2016) was an American singer, songwriter, producer and actor. He was best known as a founding member of rock band the Eagles. 

During the seventies, Frey played guitar with the band, as well as piano and keyboards. Frey was one of the primary singers of the Eagles, he sang lead vocals on songs such as "Take It Easy", "Peaceful Easy Feeling", "Tequila Sunrise", "Already Gone", "Lyin' Eyes", "New Kid in Town", and "Heartache Tonight".

On January 18, 2016, Frey died in New York City at the age of 67 from rheumatoid arthritis, acute ulcerative colitis, and pneumonia. He had been recovering from intestinal surgery. He was replaced by Bob Mothersbaugh from Devo, who continues to perform with the Eagles to this day.

[[Michel Tournier]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2016 deaths, Writers from Paris

Michel Tournier (19 December 1924 – 18 January 2016) was a French writer. He has won awards such as the Grand Prix du roman de l'Académie française in 1967 for Friday, or, The Other Island and the Prix Goncourt for The Erl-King in 1970. He was a member of the Académie Goncourt. His autobiography has been translated and published as The Wind Spirit (Beacon Press, 1988). He had been named as a contender for the Nobel Prize in Literature. He was born in Paris, France.

Tournier died on 18 January 2016 in Choisel, France at the age of 91.

[[Viral envelope]]

CATEGORIES: Virology

A viral envelope is the outermost layer of a virus. It protects the virus when it moves between host cells as part of its life-cycle. Not all viruses have envelopes.

The envelopes are made from parts of the host cell membranes (phospholipids and proteins), but include some viral glycoproteins. They may help viruses avoid the host immune system. Glycoproteins on the surface of the envelope help to identify and bind to receptor sites on the host's membrane. The viral envelope then fuses with the host's membrane, allowing virus genome to enter and infect the host.

Some enveloped viruses also have a capsid. This is another protein layer, between the envelope and the genome.

The cell from which a virus buds often dies or is weakened. The lipid bilayer envelope of these viruses is sensitive to desiccation, heat, and detergents This makes it easier to sterile these viruses than non-enveloped viruses. They can not survive for very long outside host environments, and usually need to move directly from host to host. They are very adaptable and can change in a short time in order to evade the immune system. Enveloped viruses can cause persistent infections.

[[Bulworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s comedy movies, Hip hop, 1998 movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Political movies

Bulworth is a 1998 American political comedy movie. Warren Beatty plays the title character. Halle Berry plays Nina. Don Cheadle plays L.D.. Paul Sorvino plays Graham Crockett. Christine Baranski plays Constance Bulworth.

[[Paul Sorvino]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from New York City, 1939 births, Living people

Paul Sorvino (born April 13, 1939) is an American actor. He often plays authority figures on both sides of the law. He played Paulie Cicero in the 1990 gangster movie Goodfellas. He also played NYPD Sergeant Phil Cerreta in Law & Order. He is the father of actress Mira Sorvino.

Sorvino was born in Brooklyn, New York.

[[Isaiah Washington]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Houston, Texas, 1963 births, Living people

Isaiah Washington IV (born August 3, 1963) is an American actor. He has been in several movies made by Spike Lee. Between 2005 and 2007, he played Dr. Preston Burke on ABC's Grey's Anatomy. He also played Vic in the 1994 drama movie Crooklyn.

Washington was born in Houston, Texas.

[[Stock (firearm)]]

CATEGORIES: Firearm components

A stock, also known as a shoulder stock, a buttstock, or simply a butt is a part of a rifle or other firearm, to which the barrel and firing mechanism are attached. It is held firmly against the shooter's shoulder when firing the gun. Stocks are also found on crossbows, though a crossbow stock is properly called a tiller. The stock provides a means for the shooter to firmly support the device and easily aim it. The stock also transmits recoil (the shock of firing the weapon) into the shooter's shoulder. The term stock dates to 1571 and comes from the Germanic word stoc, meaning tree trunk. This refers to the wooden nature of the gunstock.

[[Law of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: United States law, United States Constitution

The law of the United States is made up of many levels of codified and uncodified forms of law. The most important these is the United States Constitution. This established the federal government of the United States. The Constitution sets out the boundaries of federal law. This consists of acts of Congress, treaties ratified by the Senate, regulations promoted by the executive branch, and case law originating from the federal judiciary. The United States Code is the official compilation and codification of general and permanent federal statutory law.

Federal law and treaties, so long as they are in accordance with the Constitution, preempt conflicting state and territorial laws in the 50 U.S. states and in the territories. However, the scope of federal preemption is limited because the scope of federal power is not universal. In the dual-sovereign system of American federalism states are the plenary sovereigns. Each state has its own constitution, while the federal sovereign possesses only the limited supreme authority given by the Constitution. States may grant their citizens broader rights than the federal Constitution as long as they do not infringe on any federal constitutional rights. Most U.S. law (especially the actual "living law" of contract, tort, property, criminal, and family law) experienced by the majority of citizens on a day-to-day basis consists primarily of state law, which can and does vary greatly from one state to the next.

At both the federal and state levels, the law of the United States is largely based on the common law system of English law. This was the system of law that was in force at the time of the Revolutionary War. However, American law has changed from its English ancestor both in terms of substance and procedure. American law also borrows ideas from civil law.

[[Ninja Kiwi]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, 2006 establishments

Ninja Kiwi, which was previously known as Kaiparasoft Ltd, is a mobile and online video game developer founded in Auckland, New Zealand. It was founded in 2006 by brothers Chris and Stephen Harris. 

Ninja Kiwi's first game was a browser based game called Cash Sprint, developed on the Adobe Flash Platform. Since then, they have produced more than 60 games across platforms including Adobe Flash, Android, iOS, PlayStation Portable, Nintendo DS, and more recently, Steam. They are most known for producing the Bloons and Bloons Tower Defense games. 

In 2012, Ninja Kiwi purchased Digital Goldfish, a Dundee, Scotland-based developer, for an undisclosed sum. After merging Digital Goldfish to Ninja Kiwi, this increased the total number of Ninja Kiwi employees to 35. By 2021, the total number of employees increased to 70.

Ninja Kiwi has a virtual currency known as NK Coins. Players make purchases of games and in-game purchases by using NK Coins. About eighteen months before Mochi Media's parent company disappeared, Mochi Media discontinued its virtual currency (Mochi Coins), and it was replaced with Ninja Kiwi's virtual currency.

Ninja Kiwi was bought by Modern Times Group on 24th March 2021.

[[Joe Kenda]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American police officers, American television presenters, People from Pennsylvania

Joseph Patrick "Joe" Kenda (born November 14, 1946) is an American television presenter and retired police detective. He is the former Colorado Springs Police Department detective who solved nearly 400 murders in his career. He is featured on the Investigation Discovery television show Homicide Hunter, where he recounts stories of homicides he solved.

Kenda was born in Herminie, Pennsylvania. He studied at the University of Pittsburgh.

[[Jane O'Meara Sanders]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, American educators, Civil servants, Bernie Sanders, People from Brooklyn, People from Burlington, Vermont

Jane O’Meara Sanders (born January 3, 1950) is an American civil servant and educator. She is the former President of Burlington College and the wife of United States senator of Vermont and Democratic 2016 Presidential candidate Bernie Sanders. In 1996, she earned a doctorate from Union Institute & University.

Sanders was born in Brooklyn, New York. She studied at Goddard College. Sanders was married to David Driscoll until they divorced. They had three children. Sanders met Bernie in 1981 when Bernie was elected mayor of Burlington, Vermont. They were married in 1988.

Sanders was named President of Burlington College in 2004. She resigned as president in 2011.

[[Ilse Koch]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1967 deaths, German war criminals, Holocaust perpetrators, Nazis who committed suicide, People from Dresden, People who committed suicide in prison custody, Suicides by hanging, Suicides in Germany

Ilse Koch (22 September 1906 – 1 September 1967), was the wife of Karl-Otto Koch.  (Before getting married, Koch's maiden name was Margarete Ilse Köhler.)  During World War II, Karl-Otto Koch was the Commandant (commander) of the Nazi concentration camps at Sachsenhausen, Buchenwald, and finally Majdanek.  In 1947, Ilse Koch became one of the first important Nazis to be tried by the United States Military.

Mass media around the world covered Ilse Koch's trial.  People who had survived the Buchenwald and Majdanek camps talked about how she enjoyed abusing prisoners at the camps.  For example, they said she used to like beating prisoners with her riding crop, and that she used to make prisoners do exhausting exercise because she liked watching them suffer.   In Germany after the war, Koch was seen as "the concentration camp murderess."  She was accused of having prisoners with interesting tattoos murdered so she could take their skin as souvenirs.

The prisoners at the concentration camps called Koch Die Hexe von Buchenwald ("The Witch of Buchenwald") because of she would act cruelly and sexually towards prisoners at the same time.  In English, she has also been called "The Beast of Buchenwald," the "Queen of Buchenwald," the "Red Witch of Buchenwald," the "Butcher Widow," and, most often, "The Bitch of Buchenwald."

[[Per mille]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

A per mille is a sign which means parts per thousand. Per mil should not be confused with parts per million (ppm).

It is written ‰, which looks like a percent sign (%) with an extra zero in the divisor.

[[Benadryl]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Benadryl is a brand name for a number of different medications to relieve allergies and coughs. It usually contains antihistamine diphenhydramine. In the United Kingdom, it contains either the antihistamine acrivastine or the long-acting antihistamine cetirizine. Benadryl products are sold in Australia and New Zealand as a cough medicine and do not contain any antihistamine.

[[Robert M. Carter]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, Australian academics, Australian scientists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Australia, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Queensland, British geologists, British palaeontologists

Robert Merlin "Bob" Carter (9 March 1942 – 19 January 2016) was a British-born Australian palaeontologist and stratigrapher. He was best known for his strong doubt about the state of climate change in Australia. He was professor and head of the School of Earth Sciences at James Cook University from 1981 to 1998.

Carter was born in England on 9 March 1942. He moved to New Zealand in 1956. He graduated at the University of Otago in 1963 and the University of Cambridge in 1968. He was married to Anne Carter.

Carter died from problems caused by a heart attack on 19 January 2016 in Townsville, Queensland. He was 73.

[[Gunshot]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

A gunshot is the discharge of a firearm. It produces a mechanical sound effect and a chemical gunshot residue. The term can also refer to a gunshot wound caused by the bullet. Multiple discharges of a firearm or firearms are referred to as gunfire. The word can mean either the sound of a gun firing, the projectiles that were fired, or both.  For example, the statement "gunfire came from the next street" could either mean the sound of discharge, or it could mean the bullets themselves.  It is better to be more specific while writing however. "The sound of gunfire" or "we came under gunfire" would be more descriptive and prevent confusion.

[[Hartheim Euthanasia Centre]]

CATEGORIES: The Holocaust, Euthanasia, Upper Austria, 20th century establishments in Austria

The Hartheim Euthanasia Centre (NS-Tötungsanstalt Hartheim) was a killing centre that Nazi Germany used to kill people with disabilities during World War II.  The Nazis' ideas about eugenics said that people with disabilities were "life unworthy of life.  Hartheim was one of six "euthanasia centres" the Nazis set up for their T4 Euthanasia Programme. Their goal was to get rid of all of Germany's people with disabilities. The killing centre was housed in Hartheim Castle in Alkoven, near Linz, Austria.

[[Gunshot residue]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms, Forensics

Gunshot residue (GSR) is one of the results of firing a gun. When a bullet leaves the barrel of a firearm, it is accompanied by gases that include both burned and unburned particles of gunpowder. It also includes traces of metal from the firearm, the ammunition and the primer including the signature components of gunshot residue: lead, barium and antimony. GSR is usually found on the skin and clothing of the person who fired the gun. It may also be found in the entrance wound of the victim. This depends on how close the victim was to the gun when it was fired.

[[Essential medicines]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

The list of essential medicines is a listing of drugs compiled by the WHO. The list contains a number of drugs, which cover the basic  needs of a society. The drugs on the list should be easy to get, and affordable. The list was first published in 1977. It is reviewed every two years. In 2003, 156 countries have joined the effort. As of 2016, over 300 different drugs and vaccines are on the list. About 95 percent of the drugs and substances on the list are not covered by patents, which means that generic drugs using the substance indicated can be produced easily.

There are two major problems with the list: First, there are a number of diseases which mainly occur in developing countries. Many people there cannot afford to pay high prices for drugs, which means pharmaceutical companies are not interested in developing new drugs for such diseases. Examples for such diseases are malaria or tuberculosis. The second problem is that certain drugs on the list are patented, and they are often expensive. Examples for the second kind of drugs are those used to treat AIDS.

According to a study done by the world bank, about a third of the world's population does not have access to these drugs,

[[Berkshire County, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Berkshire County, Massachusetts, 1761 establishments, 1760s establishments in Massachusetts

Berkshire County is a county in the U.S. state of Massachusetts.  As of the 2010 Census, the county had a population of 131,219. The county seat and largest city is Pittsfield.

[[Rogerson, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Twin Falls County, Idaho, Unincorporated communities in Idaho

Rogerson is an unincorporated community in Twin Falls County, Idaho, United States. Rogerson is part of the Twin Falls, Idaho Micropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders of the brain, Infectious diseases

Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease (pronounced KROITS YAH) or CJD is a neurological disease.  It is degenerative (it gets worse over time); it cannot be cured, and it always causes death. CJD is sometimes called a human form of "mad cow disease" (bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE).  BSE is actually a cause of one rare type of Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease; the two are not the same disease.

CJD is caused by an infectious agent called a prion.  Prions are proteins that are folded wrong.  Prions make copies of themselves by changing correctly folded proteins into misfolded shapes.  CJD causes brain tissue to become unhealthy very quickly.  As the disease destroys the brain, the brain develops holes.  The brain's texture changes and becomes like a kitchen sponge.

[[Samira Khalil]]

CATEGORIES: Missing people, Activists, Syrian people, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Samira Khalil (سميرة الخليل) is an activist from the Homs region of Syria.  She was in prison for four years, from 1987–1991, because she opposed the Bashar al-Assad government in Syria.  She disappeared in the city of Douma on December 9, 2013, with activists Razan Zeitouneh, Wael Hamada, and Nazem Hammadi. They are called the "Douma 4".

[[The Last Dragonlord]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy books, Romance novels, 1998 books

The Last Dragonlord is the first book in a series written by Joanne Bertin. It is a story about Linden Rathan, who is the only Dragonlord (a mythical half-human who can change into a dragon) without a "soultwin" (the other half of his dragon-human soul). The story takes place in a fictional place called Cassori.

[[Respiratory tract]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the respiratory system

In humans, the respiratory tract is the parts of the body that help with respiration (getting oxygen into the body and getting rid of carbon dioxide).

[[Food drying]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking, Food preservation

Food drying is a method of preserving food. The food is dried (either dehydrated or desiccated). Drying stops the growth of bacteria and fungi by removing water. These micro-organisms, which cause food to spoil, need water to survive.

This method of preserving food has been used since ancient times. The earliest known practice is 12,000 BC by people in the Middle East and Asia.

Water is traditionally removed through evaporation by drying the food in the air, sun or in smoke. A great variety of drying techniques are now used.

Many different foods can be preserved by drying. Meat and fish are preserved through such traditional methods as drying, smoking and salting.

[[Sans serif]]

CATEGORIES: Typography, Fonts

In typography, a sans serif typeface is one that does not have the tiny feet called "serifs" at the end of strokes. 

The term comes from the French word sans, meaning "without" and "serif" from the Dutch word schreef  meaning "line".

Sans serif typefaces have been used since the 18th century, but became most used in the twentieth century as the modern art movement developed. Most designers of typefaces were artists. Some were outstanding in other artistic fields, and were part of the wider artistic culture of their times.

The apostle of sans serif was Jan Tschichold  (2 April 1902 Leipzig, Germany – 11 August 1974 Locarno, Switzerland), a German-Swiss graphic designer.   

Tschichold not only designed typefaces, he showed how they could be used in the design of book printing. He was a chief designer for Penguin Books after the Second World War.

Sans serif faces are most used for display signs, advertising and for headings in books. Although they seem to work well for the text in books, they are much less used for that purpose.

[[Fez (hat)]]

CATEGORIES: Headgear

The fez (fes, plural fezzes or fezes from arabic "Fas" the main town in Marocco before 1927 ), as well as its equivalent, the tarboosh (طربوش ṭarbūsh), is a felt hat.

There are two types One is a cone with a flat top, made of red felt. The other is a short cylinder made of kilim fabric. Both usually have a tassel attached to the top. The tarboosh and the modern fez, which is similar, owe much of their development and popularity to the Ottoman era.

[[Fez]]

Fez may mean

[[Dalkurd FF]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish football clubs, 2004 establishments in Sweden

Dalkurd FF is an association football club in the town of Borlänge in Sweden. The club was founded by Kurds in Sweden 2004, and played its first Superettan season in 2016.

[[Bowler hat]]

CATEGORIES: Headgear

The bowler hat is a hard felt hat with a rounded crown.

It was originally designed to protect the head from blows. One story is that  the British soldier and politician Edward Coke, the younger brother of the 2nd Earl of Leicester had it made in 1849. Its purpose was to protect his gamekeepers' heads from low-hanging branches while on horseback. The keepers had previously worn top hats, which were easily knocked off and damaged. 

The bowler hat was popular with the working class during the Victorian era, and later on with the middle and upper classes in Britain and the eastern United States. In Britain, they are worn as civilian dress by Guards officers. 

[[Steady State theory]]

CATEGORIES: Cosmology, Astrophysics

In cosmology, the Steady State theory is a theory about how the universe began. It is an alternative to the Big Bang model. This theory says that the continuous decreasing of density, makes also a continuous creation of matter.

[[Remote keyless system]]

CATEGORIES: Security, Automobiles

A remote keyless system is a device used to control access to a building or car without using a traditional mechanical key.

[[Edmonde Charles-Roux]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2016 deaths, French journalists, Writers from Ile-de-France

Edmonde Charles-Roux (17 April 1920 – 20 January 2016) was a French writer. She was born in Neuilly-sur-Seine, Hauts-de-Seine.

In 1946, she joined the staff of a magazine being created, a women's weekly: Elle, where she spent two years. From 1948, she worked for the French edition of Vogue, becoming the magazine’s editor-in-chief in 1954.

Charles-Roux died on 20 January 2016, in Marseille, France, at the age of 95.

[[Ronald Greenwald]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, American activists, American diplomats, American educators, American rabbis, Businesspeople from New York City, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Jewish American writers, Writers from Brooklyn, Writers from Manhattan

Ronald Greenwald (January 8, 1934 – January 20, 2016) was an American Orthodox Jewish rabbi. He was a businessman and an educator. He was born in New York City.

[[Homayoun Behzadi]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Iranian footballers, Iranian football managers

Homayoun Behzadi (همایون بهزادی‎; 20 June 1942 – 22 January 2016) was an Iranian footballer and coach. He usually played as a striker. He played for Paykan, but most notably for the Iran national football team. For a very brief time, Behzadi was the coach of the Persepolis football team in 1975.

Behzadi suffered a heart attack in April 2013. He made a full recovery. Behzadi died in Tehran on 22 January 2016 at the age of 73.

[[David G. Hartwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Accidental deaths in New York, American critics, American educators, American journalists, Writers from Massachusetts

David Geddes Hartwell (July 10, 1941  January 20, 2016) was an American critic, publisher and editor of science fiction and fantasy. He was best known for work with Signet, Pocket and Tor Books publishers. He was also known as an award-winning editor of anthologies. He was born in Salem, Massachusetts.

Hartwell died in Pleasantville, New York from complications of a fall on January 20, 2016 at the age of 74.

[[Kapo]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi Germany, World War II, Imprisonment and detention

A kapo or prisoner functionary was a special type of prisoner in the Nazi concentration camps during The Holocaust. Kapos were chosen by the Schutzstaffel (SS) camp guards to help run the camps. Some kapos were in charge of other prisoners, who had to do forced labor. Other kapos did paperwork and kept records in the camps.

The Nazis used kapos for many reasons. With kapos helping to run the camps, the camps did not need as many SS guards. The kapos helped the SS control the other prisoners. This made it possible for a small number of SS to run large concentration camps. Also, because kapos were prisoners, they were not paid for their work, so this system also saved a lot of money.

Even though they were not paid, the kapos got special treatment. They did not have to do hard labor, and they were not physically abused like the other prisoners. They sometimes got extra food, cigarettes, alcohol, regular clothes, and private rooms. However, to keep this special treatment, the kapos had to keep the SS guards happy. If they did not control the other prisoners well enough, the kapos would lose their jobs. They would become regular prisoners again.

The SS often chose kapos who were members of violent criminal gangs. These kapos often abused other prisoners badly. The SS allowed this abuse to happen.

[[Bogusław Kaczyński]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Polish writers, Polish journalists

Bogusław Kaczyński (May 2, 1942 – January 21, 2016) was a Polish classical music journalist.  He was born in  Biała Podlaska, Poland.

[[Mrinalini Sarabhai]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2016 deaths, Choreographers, Indian dancers, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in India, People from Kerala

Mrinalini Sarabhai (मृणालिनी साराभाई; 11 May 1918 – 21 January 2016) was an Indian classical dancer, choreographer and instructor. She was the founder of the Darpana Academy of Performing Arts in the city of Ahmedabad. She received many awards and citations in recognitions of her work to art. She trained over 18,000 students in Bharatnatyam and Kathakali. She was born in Kerala, India.

Sarabhai was hospitalized in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India for pneumonia on 20 January 2016. She died the next day of respiratory failure at the age of 97.

[[Germaine Damar]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Luxembourgian people, Movie actors, Dancers

Germaine Damar (born August 31, 1929) is a Luxembourgian actress and dancer. She used the stage name Ria Poncelet. She was born in Petingen, Luxembourg. 

Damar started her career as an acrobat and played in nearly 30 German movies, including three movies in which she was the partner of Peter Alexander. Her best known movies are Mädchen mit schwachem Gedächtnis (1956), Die Drei von der Tankstelle (1955) and So ein Millionär hat's schwer (1958).

[[Derrick Todd Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, 2016 deaths, American serial killers, People convicted of manslaughter, People from Baton Rouge, Louisiana

Derrick Todd Lee (November 5, 1968 – January 21, 2016) was a convicted American serial killer, nicknamed the Baton Rouge Serial Killer. He was born in St. Francisville, Louisiana.

He was linked by DNA to the deaths of seven women in the Baton Rouge and Lafayette areas in Louisiana, and in 2004 was convicted, in separate trials, of the murders of Geralyn DeSoto and Charlotte Murray Pace. The Pace trial resulted in a death sentence.  Newspapers have suggested Lee can be linked to other unsolved murders in the area, but the police lacked DNA evidence to prove these connections. 

Lee died on January 21, 2016 at the age of 47, of an undisclosed medical condition at the Louisiana State Penitentiary in the West Feliciana Parish, while awaiting execution.

[[Sudhindra Thirtha]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Indian educators

Sudhindra Thirta (31 March 1926 – 17 January 2016), also known as Shri Sudhindra Thirtha Swamiji, was an Indian Hindu religious leader. He was the legal and spiritual head (mathadipathi) of the Kashi Math and the twentieth successive person called the swamiji of guru parampara. He was born in Ernakulam, Kerala, India.

Thirtha died in Haridwar, India from renal failure on 17 January 2016 at the age of 89.

[[Frank Sullivan (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Boston Red Sox players, Philadelphia Phillies players, Minnesota Twins players, Sportspeople from California

Franklin Leal "Frank" Sullivan (January 23, 1930 – January 19, 2016) was an American right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball. He played for the Boston Red Sox (1953-60), Philadelphia Phillies (1961-62) and the Minnesota Twins (1962-63). He was born in Hollywood, California.

Sullivan was named to the American League All-Star team in 1955 and 1956, and was elected to the Boston Red Sox Hall of Fame in 2008. 

Sullivan died in Lihue, Hawaii from pneumonia on January 19, 2016 at the age of 85.

[[Larry Sanders (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Bernie Sanders, British educators, British Jews, English politicians, People from Brooklyn

Lawrence "Larry" Sanders (born April 25, 1935) is an American-born British academic and politician. He is a member of the Green Party. Sanders was born in Brooklyn, New York. He is the brother of United States senator and Presidential candidate Bernie Sanders.

Sanders moved to the United Kingdom in 1968. He was active in the Labour Party in Oxford in the 1980s. He left the Labour Party in 2001 because he felt that it had moved too far to the right under Tony Blair, and joined the Green Party. Sanders was a Green Party county councillor representing the East Oxford division on Oxfordshire County Council, until he retired from the Council in 2013. He was a candidate to be the Member of Parliament for Witney. He came in fourth place.

[[Jess Harnell]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Actors from New Jersey, American voice actors, Singers from New Jersey

Jess Q. Harnell (born December 23, 1963) is an American voice actor and singer. He is best known for his voice roles as Wakko Warner in Animaniacs, Ironhide in the Transformers movie series, Chilly in Doc McStuffins and Crash Bandicoot in the video game franchise of the same name. He has been the voice of Br'er Rabbit in various Disney projects since 1989. He has been the announcer on America's Funniest Home Videos since 1998.

[[Umberto Raho]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, People from Bari

Umberto Raho (4 June 1922 – 9 January 2016) was an Italian stage, movie and television actor. He was born in Bari, Italy. Raho was known for his roles in The Bird with the Crystal Plumage, The Last Man on Earth, and Superfantagenio.

Raho died in Anzio, Italy from complications of Alzheimer's disease on 9 January 2016 at the age of 93.

[[Mouthparts]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy

Mouthparts is a general term used in animal biology (zoology). It means the various bits and pieces around the opening of the alimentary canal (mouth). These mouthparts are used by animals to help get their food organised before they swallow it.

All animals have mouthparts except those which absorb their food through their epidermis. The main variations are chewing, sucking and dissolving

[[Shield bug]]

CATEGORIES: Hemiptera

Shield bugs are the Acanthosomatidae, a family of Hemiptera. There are  55 genera, with about 200 species.

It is one of the least varied families of bugs. The number of species is quite low for beetles, and it is not known why this is so. Individually they are fairly common.

Shield bugs, like almost all bugs, live by sucking the sap of plants, usually flowering plants. They have a "layered" defence system. From a distance they are difficult to see because they are camouflaged. Then, they have a tough armoured back. Lastly, if touched, they give off revolting scents, rather like stink bugs (which are a related group).

[[Totterdown]]

CATEGORIES: Bristol

Totterdown is a residential area in Bristol, England. It is just south of the city centre. It is a short walk from Bristol's main train station, Bristol Temple Meads.

Totterdown is known for its steep residential streets and its colourful houses. It has many cafes, bistros and pubs. It is popular for the arts. It hosts The Totterdown Front Room Arts Trail each autumn. The Totterdown Music Festival takes place in the summer. It has easy access to several parks and green spaces - School Road Park, Perrett's Park, Victoria Park and Redcatch Park.

Arnos Vale Cemetery is located in Totterdown. 

[[Jim Bowie]]

CATEGORIES: 1796 births, 1836 deaths, American frontiersmen and women, Businesspeople from Kentucky, Slavers

James "Jim" Bowie (pronounced BOO-ee; April 1796 – March 6, 1836) was a 19th-century American pioneer. He played a prominent role in the Texas Revolution. He died at the Battle of the Alamo. Stories of him as a fighter and frontiersman, both real and fictitious, have made him a legendary figure in Texas history. He is a folk hero of American history. The Bowie knife is named after Jim Bowie.

[[Luminator Bernocchi]]

CATEGORIES: Design, Lamps

Luminator Bernocchi is a type of floor lamp. It was designed by the architect Luciano Baldessari. The Italian entrepreneur Antonio Bernocchi commissioned the lamp. Bernocchi's main business was making textiles. He wanted a lamp which could light the fabrics on display without burning them. The lamp is made from metal. Its design was influenced by Futurism. The  prototype was  presented in 1929, first in the Bernocchi Pavilion  at the Milan Fair and then in the Italian Pavilion at the International Expo in Barcelona.

[[Miloslav Ransdorf]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2016 deaths, Communist politicians, Czech politicians, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in the Czech Republic

Miloslav Ransdorf (15 February 1953 – 22 January 2016) was a Czech politician. He served as a Member of the European Parliament for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia from 1 May 2004 until his death. In December 2015, he was arrested for his apparent role in a bank scandal in Switzerland. He was born in Rakovník, Czechoslovakia.

Ransdorf died from a stroke on 22 January 2016 in Prague, aged 62.

[[Robert Sassone (cyclist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, 2016 deaths, French cyclists, People with cancer, Sportspeople who committed suicide

Robert Sassone (23 November 1978 – 21 January 2016) was a French racing cyclist. He was a member of the Cofidis cycling team. He rode is the men's madison at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. He also won the men's madison at the 2001 Track World Championships. He was banned in 2004 for doping. He was born in Nouméa, New Caledonia.

Sassone had cancer during the final years of his life. He killed himself on 21 January 2016, aged 37.

[[M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2016 deaths, Buddhists, Sri Lankan politicians

Munasinghe Kariyawasam Appuhamilage Don Somadasa Gunawardana (6 March 1947 – 19 January 2016) was a Sri Lankan politician. He was a member of the Parliament of Sri Lanka for the Sri Lanka Freedom Party and later the United National Party. He was Minister of Land from 12 January 2015 until his death.

Gunawardana died on 19 January 2016 in Colombo from cancer, aged 68.

[[Nine Network]]

CATEGORIES: Australian television networks

Nine Network, also known as Channel Nine or simply Nine, is an Australian commercial free-to-air television network. It is one of the three major television networks in Australia. It was launched on 16 September 1956.

[[A. C. Jose]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, Disease-related deaths in India, Indian politicians

Ambat Chacko Jose (അമ്പാട്ട് ചാക്കോ ജോസ്; 5 February 1937 – 23 January 2016) was an Indian politician. He was Speaker of the Kerala Legislative Assembly. He also served as a Member of Parliament from Thrissur Lok Sabha constituency in Kerala three times between 1996 and 2004. He was born in Edapally, Ernakulam.

Jose died on 23 January 2016 in Kochi, aged 78.

[[Hideaki Ōmura]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Japanese politicians, People from Aichi Prefecture, Governors of Japanese prefectures

Hideaki Ōmura is a Japanese politician. He is the current Governor of Aichi Prefecture since 15 February 2011. His father is Korean. 

[[Namaste Falls]]

CATEGORIES: Waterfalls, Bodies of water of Asia, Geography of Nepal

Namaste Falls (नमस्ते झरना) is a waterfall located in Vedatar in Dhankuta district in Nepal. It is about 80 high. It is popular as a tourist destination.

[[Dhankuta District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Nepal

Dhankuta is a district in Nepal. It is in the Eastern development region. It's headquarter is Dhankuta.

[[Dhankuta]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Nepal

Dhankuta (धनकुटा Dhankuta.ogg) is a town in the hills of eastern Nepal. It is the headquarters of Koshi Zone. It is located in Dhankuta district .

[[Achham District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Nepal

Achham District (अछाम जिल्लाAchham.ogg) is a district in Nepal. It is in the Seti Zone. Mangalsen is the district headquarters of this district.

[[Seti Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Zones of Nepal

Seti (सेती अञ्चलSeti.ogg) is a zone of Nepal located in Far-Western Development region of Nepal.

[[Mangalsen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Nepal

Mangalsen is a municipality in Nepal. It is the headquarters of the Achham District which is located in the Seti Zone of western Nepal.

[[Lumbini Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Zones of Nepal

Lumbini is a zone of Nepal. It is in the Western Development Region. It is the birth place of Gautama Buddha, who became the founder of Buddhism.

[[Rapti Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Zones of Nepal

Rapti (राप्ती अञ्चल Rapti.ogg) is a zone, in the Mid-Western Development Region of Nepal. It is named after the Rapti river.

[[Karnali Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Zones of Nepal

Karnali (कर्णाली अञ्चलKarnali.ogg) is a zone in the Mid-Western Development Region of Nepal. Its headquarters is Jumla. It is a remote region with no roads in or out. Karnali is accessed by several airfields. It is one of the poorest regions in Nepal.

[[Bheri Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Zones of Nepal

Bheri (भेरी अञ्चलBheri.ogg) is a zone of Nepal. It is in the Mid-Western Development Region. Its administrative headquarters is Nepalgunj.

[[Mahakali Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Zones of Nepal

Mahakali (महाकाली अञ्चलMahakali.ogg), is a zone of Nepal located in the Far-Western Development Region. It has occupied an area of 6,205 km2 Nepal.

[[Biratnagar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nepal, Municipalities of Nepal

Biratnagar (विराटनगर) is a major industrial city and the second largest city in Nepal. Its geographical location is 26°28'60"N 87°16'60"E. The city is located in the Morang District in the Kosi Zone of Nepal.

[[Morang District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Nepal

Morang District (मोरङ जिल्ला Morang.ogg), a district of Nepal. It is in the Koshi Zone, in the Terai plain area.

[[Jhapa District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Nepal

Jhapa (झापा जिल्लाJhapa.ogg) is an Eastern district in Nepal. It is in Mechi Zone of the Eastern Development Region. The district covers 1606. Jhapa is considered to be one of the most educated and developed districts in Nepal. It is also popular for rice production and tourism.

[[Lysozyme]]

CATEGORIES: Enzymes, Immunology

A lysozyme is a part of the innate immune system. They are enzymes which are in mucus secretions like saliva. They protect against infection by chopping up the bacteria, viruses and fungi which infect animals.

The name 'lysozyme' was coined in 1922 by Alexander Fleming (1881–1955), the discoverer of penicillin. Fleming first observed the antibacterial action of lysozyme when he treated bacterial cultures with nasal mucus from a patient suffering from a common cold.

Lysozyme is in a number of secretions, such as tears, saliva, milk, and mucus. It is also present in cytoplasmic granules of macrophages and granulocyte neutrophils.

The enzyme works by attacking polymers in the cell walls of bacteria, especially Gram-positive bacteria like  Bacillus and Streptococcus.

Lysozyme was the second protein structure, and the first enzyme structure,  solved by X-ray diffraction methods. It was the first enzyme to be fully sequenced that contains all twenty common amino acids.

It was also the first enzyme to have a detailed, specific mechanism suggested for its action. This work led to an explanation of how enzymes speed up a chemical reaction by their physical structures.

[[Stephen Hendry]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Snooker players, Scottish sportspeople

Stephen Hendry (born 13 January 1969) is a Scottish former professional snooker player. He has won the World Championship seven times, a record in the modern snooker era.

Hendry started playing snooker in 1981, aged 12, and became at 16 years the youngest ever professional. He finished his professional career 27 years later after his defeat in the 2012 world championship. In his career he was between 1990 an 1998 and again 2006/2007 snooker's world number one. Actual Hendry operates as a commentator for BBC Snooker.

[[Steve Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, BBC people, Living people, Snooker players, English sports commentators, Sportspeople from London

Steve Davis (born 22 August 1957) is an English former professional snooker player. He was born in Plumstead, London. He has won the World Championship six times and dominated snooker in the eighties of the 20th century. 

Davis started his professional career in 1978. Ten years later he became the first player to complete snooker's Triple Crown by winning the UK Championship, Masters, and World Championship in the same season.

[[The Alamo (1960 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s western movies, American western movies, American epic movies

The Alamo is a 1960 American historical-western epic movie about the 1836 Battle of the Alamo. It was produced and directed by John Wayne. The movie starred Wayne as Davy Crockett.  The picture also stars Richard Widmark as Jim Bowie. The movie was filmed on location in Texas and released by United Artists. The long 3 hour and 12 minute movie (not counting intermission) was not historically accurate.

[[John Higgins]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Snooker players, Scottish sportspeople

John Higgins (born 18 May 1975) is a Scottish professional snooker player. He has won the World Championship four times. He has also lost in the final four times.

In the modern snooker era only Stephen Hendry (7), Steve Davis (6), Ray Reardon (6) and Ronnie O'Sullivan (5) were more often world champion. 

Higgins started his professional career in 1992. Because of a betting scandal in 2010, he was banned for six months, but successfully returned to the World Snooker Tour.

[[Ray Reardon]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Snooker players, Welsh sportspeople

Ray Reardon (born 8 October 1932) is a former Welsh snooker player who dominated his sport in the seventies of the 20th Century. He has won the World Championship six times. The former policeman and miner started his professional snooker career in 1967, which ended in 1992. As the world's best player, he was replaced by Steve Davis.

[[Eileen Heckart]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Columbus, Ohio, 1919 births, 2001 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer

Eileen Heckart (March 29, 1919 – December 31, 2001) was an American movie, television and stage actress. She was born Anna Eileen Herbert. "Heckart" is the last name by which she was known for most of her life. 

On Broadway, she acted in The Bad Seed, Picnic, Barefoot in the Park, A Memory of Two Mondays and The Cemetery Club. In movies, she acted in The First Wives Club. She also appeared in the Clint Eastwood movie Heartbreak Ridge. On television, Heckart acted in Partners in Crime, Love Story and The Mary Tyler Moore Show.

Heckart was born in Columbus, Ohio. She died of lung cancer in Norwalk, Connecticut at age 82. 

[[December 1969 nor'easter]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 in the United States, Disasters in the 1960s, Natural disasters in the United States, Severe weather, Natural disasters in Canada, 1960s in Canada

The December 1969 nor'easter was a strong winter storm. It affected the Northeastern United States and Quebec. It included a tornado outbreak, record snow accumulations, a damaging ice storm, and flooding rains.

[[Altenburg Abbey]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Austria, Christianity in Austria, Lower Austria, Monasteries, 1144 establishments, Establishments in Austria, 1140s establishments in Europe

Altenburg Abbey is a Benedictine monastery in Austria.  It was founded in 1144 by Countess Hildeburg of Poigen-Rebgau. It is located in Horn, near Sankt Pölten, in Lower Austria. The site is known for its Baroque architecture today. 

[[The Bad Seed (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s horror movies, 1950s drama movies, 1956 movies, American horror movies, Movies directed by Mervyn LeRoy

The Bad Seed is a 1956 American horror movie. It has elements of film noir. This movie is based on the 1954 play of the same name.

[[Patty McCormack]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, American child actors, Actors from Brooklyn, 1945 births, Living people

Patty McCormack (born Patricia Ellen Russo, August 21, 1945) is an American actress. She acts in theater, television and movies. She played eight year old sociopath and killer Rhoda Penmark in The Bad Seed. She also played Joanna Wilkes in The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.

McCormack was born in Brooklyn, New York.

[[Faraday cage]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A Faraday cage or Faraday shield is an enclosure made from material that conducts electricity. It is used to block electric fields. The Faraday cage is named after the English scientist Michael Faraday, who invented it in 1836.

An electrical field outside the cage causes electric charges in the cage's conducting material to move around and cancel the field's effect inside the cage. It protects sensitive electronic equipment from external radio frequency interference (RFI). 

Faraday cages are also used to enclose devices that produce RFI, such as radio transmitters, to prevent their radio waves from interfering with other nearby equipment. They are also used to protect people and equipment against actual electric currents such as lightning strikes and electrostatic discharges. The enclosing cage conducts current round the outside of the enclosed space and none passes though the inside space.

[[Ilam District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Nepal

Ilam district (इलाम जिल्लाIlaam.ogg) is a district in Nepal. It is in the Mechi Zone of the Eastern Development Region. The population was 290,254 according to the census of 2011.

[[Ilam, Nepal]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nepal, Municipalities of Nepal

Ilam (इलाम Ilaam.ogg) is a municipality in the Ilam District of Nepal. It is in the hilly region of Mechi zone in eastern Nepal. It is the headquarters of Mechi Zone and Ilam district.

[[Panchthar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Nepal

Panchthar district (पाँचथर जिल्लाPanchthar.ogg) is a district in Nepal. It is in the Mechi Zone of the Eastern Development Region.

[[Phidim]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nepal, Municipalities of Nepal

Phidim is a municipality of Nepal. It is in the Panchthar District of the Mechi Zone. This municipality was made by merging Phidim, Chokmagu and Siwa villages on 18 May 2014.

[[Arghakhanchi District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Nepal

 Arghakhanchi (अर्घाखाँची जिल्लाArghakhanchi district.ogg) is a district in Nepal. It is in the Lumbini Zone in the western region. The district headquarters of this district is Sandhikharka.

[[Sandhikharka]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nepal, Municipalities of Nepal

Sandhikharka (सन्धिखर्क नगरपालिका) is a municipality in Nepal. It is the headquarters of Arghakhanchi District, in the Lumbini Zone of Nepal. On 18 May 2014, it was converted into a municipality by merging Sandhikharka, Bangla, Narapani, Khanchikot, Kimadada, Argha and Dibharna VDCs.

[[Samsung Galaxy Note]]

CATEGORIES: Samsung mobile phones

Samsung Galaxy Note is a series of smartphones and tablet computers made by Samsung Electronics. They use Android as their operating system.

The models are mainly for pen computing. All Galaxy Note models come with a stylus pen. They have a Wacom digitizer that turns handwriting into text.

[[Phablet]]

CATEGORIES: Mobile phones

A phablet (') is a type of mobile device designed to combine the format of smartphones and tablet computers. The name itself is a combination of the words phone and tablet.

Phablets have screens that measure diagonally 5.1 - 6.99. This size allows for activities such as mobile web browsing and watching videos.

[[Elisabeta Polihroniade]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, Chess players, Romanian journalists, Sportspeople from Bucharest, Romanian writers

Elisabeta Polihroniade (24 April 1935 – 23 January 2016) was a Romanian chess player and journalist. She became a Woman Grandmaster in 1982. She was also an International Arbiter. She won the Romanian Women's Championship in 1966, 1970, 1971, 1972, 1975, 1976 and 1977. She was born in Bucharest.

Polihroniade died on 23 January 2016, aged 80.

[[Barry Brickell]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, New Zealand artists, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Potters, People from Auckland

Ian Barry Brickell OBE (26 October 1935 – 23 January 2016), better known as Barry Brickell, was a New Zealand potter and conservationist. He was the founder and builder of the Driving Creek Railway in the Coromandel Peninsula, a popular tourist attraction. He was born in New Plymouth and grew up in Auckland.

Brickell died on 23 January 2016, aged 80.

[[Jimmy White]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Snooker players, Sportspeople from London

James Warren "Jimmy" White (born 2 May 1962 in London) is an English professional snooker player. He is one of the most popular players 

White is a six times World Championship finalist but lost the finale each time: 1984 against Steve Davis, 1990 against Stephen Hendry, 1991 against John Parrott and in the next three years still to Stephen Hendry.

[[Baglung District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Nepal

Baglung District (बागलुङ जिल्ला Baglung.ogg) is a district in Nepal. It is in the Dhawalagiri Zone. The district headquarters is Baglung. The district covers an area of 1784. In 2011, it had a population of 268,613.

[[Baitadi District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Nepal

Baitadi District (बैतडी जिल्ला Baitadi district.ogg) is a district of Nepal. It is in the Mahakali Zone. Baitadi is the headquarters of this district.

[[Khalanga, Baitadi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nepal

Baitadi Khalanga or Baitadi is a town and the headquarters of the Baitadi District in the Mahakali Zone of western Nepal. According to the 1991 Nepal census it had total population of 5,352. There were 1,011 houses in the town. It shares an international border with Uttarakhand, India. The two are separated by the Mahakali River. This part of Nepal is less developed than the eastern part of the country.

[[John Parrott]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Snooker players, English sportspeople, People from Liverpool

John Parrott (born 11 May 1964 in Liverpool) is an English former professional snooker player. He was twice in the finals of the World Snooker Championship. In 1989, he lost to Steve Davis, in 1991 he defeated Jimmy White.

Parrott started his professional career in 1989, in the 2010/11 season he lost his place in the world rankings. He is now a snooker commentator. 

[[Jimmy Bain]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2016 deaths, British bass guitarists, British rock guitarists, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from lung cancer, Scottish rock musicians

James Stewart Bain (19 December 1947 – 23 January 2016) was a Scottish musician. He was best known as a bassist for the rock bands Rainbow and Dio with Ronnie James Dio. He also works with the Scorpions, John Cale, Gary Moore and wrote for Thin Lizzy frontman Phil Lynott. He was born in Newtonmore.

Bain died on 23 January 2016 while on the Def Leppard's "Hysteria on the High Seas" cruise from pneumonia caused by lung cancer at the age of 68.

[[Funen]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Denmark

Funen (Fyn) is an island in Denmark. It covers an area of 3,099.7. It is the third-largest island in the country. The main city is Odense which is connected to the sea by a seldom-used canal. 

There are bridges that carry roads and railways to and from Funen. The Great Belt Bridge links Funen to the island of Zealand in the east, while the Old Little Belt Bridge and New Little Belt Bridge link Funen to Jutland in the west. 

[[Kiel Canal]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Germany, Canals, Geography of Schleswig-Holstein

The Kiel Canal is a waterway in the German state of Schleswig-Holstein. The canal connects the North Sea from the River Elbe to the Baltic Sea at Kiel. The Canal is about 100 long. The canal was first opened to traffic on 19 June 1895. It was then improved to allow the largest warships to pass through. The formal reopening of the improved canal was on June 24, 1914. The Kiel Canal is the busiest artificial waterway for seagoing ships worldwide. In 2014, 32,600 ships passed through the waterway.

[[École Centrale de Lyon]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in France, 1857 establishments in Europe, Lyon, 1850s establishments in France

École Centrale de Lyon is a graduate school in engineering in France. It is in a campus of the Écully (East of France).

[[Elections in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Elections, Politics of Azerbaijan, Political history of Azerbaijan

Elections are held in Azerbaijan to elect the head of state (the president) and a legislature (the parliament).

The President of Azerbaijan is elected for a five-year term by the people; before a referendum by the people changed this in 2009, the position was limited to two terms.

The parliament of Azerbaijan, the National Assembly (Milli Məclis), has 125 members. Before 2005, 100 members were elected for a five-year term in single-seat constituencies and 25 members were elected by proportional representation. Since 2005 all 125 members are elected in single-seat constituencies. 

Azerbaijan is a one party dominant state. Opposition political parties beside the New Azerbaijan Party are allowed but are widely considered to have no real chance of gaining power.

On Sunday, 1 November 2015, the most recent parliamentary elections were held. On Wednesday, 9 October 2013, the most recent presidential election was held.

[[Baltimore (disambiguation)]]

Baltimore is a city in the state of Maryland in the United States.

Baltimore may also refer to:

[[Hei Hei]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New Zealand

Hei Hei is a suburb of Christchurch, New Zealand. It is located in the west of Christchurch 11 from the centre of the city. State Highway 1 runs through it. The area was subdivided for poultry farming after World War I for the men returning from war, but the plan failed due to the poor soil conditions. The place name is a Māori word. It means noise, disturbance, storm, dust.

[[Dedham, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Massachusetts, County seats in Massachusetts, 1600s establishments in North America, 17th-century establishments in Massachusetts

Dedham is a town in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. It is one of the oldest towns in the United States. It was started in the 1600s.

[[Josip Friščić]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2016 deaths, Croatian politicians, Deaths from cancer

Josip Friščić (15 August 1949 – 23 January 2016) was a Croatian politician. He was a leader of the Croatian Peasant Party (HSS) from 17 December 2005 until 28 January 2012. He was also Vice President of Croatian Parliament from 2008 to 2011. He was born in Subotica Podravska near Rasinja, SFR Yugoslavia.

Friščić died from cancer on 23 January 2016 in Koprivnica, aged 66.

[[January 2016 United States blizzard]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 disasters, 2016 in the United States, 2016 in weather, Historic blizzards in the United States, January 2016 events

The January 2016 United States blizzard was a severe winter weather event. The weather caused multiple states in the Mid-Atlantic to declare a state of emergency. The blizzard happened between January 20 and 25, 2016. 

On January 20–22 the governors of eleven states, plus the mayor of Washington, D.C., declared a state of emergency in expectation of significant snowfall and blizzard conditions. Approximately 85 million people were estimated to be in the storm's path. More than 33 million were under blizzard warnings. Over 10,000 flights were canceled because of the storm.

New York City was put under a travel ban on January 23. A snow emergency was declared for Washington, D.C. just before that.

Two to three feet of snow fell from Virginia to New England. Snow also fell in Arkansas, North Carolina and Tennessee.

The storm also caused tornadoes and hail from Louisiana to Florida

Thirty people died because of the blizzard.

The storm was also called Winter Storm Jonas by the Weather Channel.

[[Changchun]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China, Capital cities in Asia

Changchun (Chángchūn) is the capital and largest city of the Jilin province of China. The name of the city means "Eternal Spring". In the year 1800, the Jiaqing Emperor set up a trading post in a small village to trade furs and other goods. This village later became Changchun Ting.

In 1898, Changchun got its first train station, which was built by the Russian Empire.

After Japan invaded Manchuria in September 1931, the Japanese established the capital of the newly formed puppet state, Manchukuo, in Changchun. The Japanese renamed the city Shinkyō (kanji: 新京, meaning: New Capital), and it is here where the Japanese established the former Emperor Pu-yi as the Emperor of Manchukuo. During the Japanese occupation, the Japanese built much of the infrastructure that still stands today, including the Manchukuo Imperial Palace, the First Clinical Hospital of Jilin University, the Palace of Geology, and several others.

On August 20, 1945, the Soviet Union's Soviet Red Army entered the city, captured Emperor Pu-yi, and drove the Japanese out. They stayed there until the Kuomintang drove them out in 1946. The KMT held the city until 1948, when it got overwhelmed by the communist PLA in 1948. During the Siege of Changchun, up to 80% of civilians starved to death.

The Chinese took down few of the Japanese buildings because they were already so well-built that the Chinese thought it would be a waste to tear them down. Nonetheless, the tumblers that Starbucks sells in Changchun feature the Changchun Railway Station out of all the other monuments in the city, due to the fact that it itself is not a Japanese-made building.

Changchun is also the heart of China's car-making business.

[[Asghar Farhadi]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning directors, 1972 births, Living people, Iranian movie producers, Iranian movie directors, Iranian screenwriters

Asghar Farhadi (اصغر فرهادی, born 7 May 1972 Homāyūnshahr, Isfahan) is an Iranian movie director and screenwriter. For his work as a director, he has received a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film among other awards. He was named one of the 100 Most Influential People in the world by Time magazine in 2012.

[[Call and response (music)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology, Music genres

In music, a call and response is a series of two parts usually played or sung by different musicians.  The second part is heard as a comment about or an answer to what the first has sung. This mimics or makes fun of how people talk back and forth to each other. Call and response uses the simple musical form of a verse and then a chorus used in many cultures or traditions. These songs are usually energetic and fun to listen to.

[[Lal Shahbaz Qalandar]]

CATEGORIES: 1149 births, 1299 deaths, Asian Sufis, Muslims, Poets

Syed Muhammad Usman Marwandi (1149–1299), better-known as Lal Shahbaz Qalandar , was a Sufi poet from Afghanistan.  He belonged to the Suhrawardi order of Sufis. He shifted from Afghanistan and went and settled in Sindh area of India (now in Pakistan).  His shrine in Sehwan Sharif, Sindh,Pakistan, is still visited by many people. 

[[Ninh Binh Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Vietnam

Ninh Bình (Ninh Binh.ogg) is a province of Vietnam, in the Red River Delta region of the northern part of the country. Ninh Bình has a very short coastline on the Gulf of Tonkin. The population is 898,500 people. Ninh Bình province covers a total area of 1329.4. The province is known for its limestone caves and grottos (manmade caves). Ninh Binh was the first imperial capital of Vietnam from 968 to 1010 under the Đinh, Lê and Lý dynasties.

[[Ventricular tachycardia]]

CATEGORIES: Cardiology, Heart disease, Medical emergencies

Ventricular tachycardia (V-tach or VT) is a type of tachycardia (a fast heart rate).  The heart has four chambers (closed spaces).  The top two are called the atria, and the bottom two are called the ventricles.  When the heart is working normally, electrical signals in the heart tell the to atria squeeze first.  However, in ventricular tachycardia, the ventricles squeeze first.  This happens because the electrical signals that tell the atria to squeeze first are not working.

Ventricular tachycardia is a medical emergency.  First of all, if the heart is beating too fast, it does not have time to refill with blood between beats.  This means that the heart will not be able to squeeze out enough blood to the rest of the body.  Most people in ventricular tachycardia have a heart rate of at least 170 beats per minute.  This is very fast.  (A normal heart rate is 60-100.)

Ventricular tachycardia can also cause low blood pressure.  If the blood pressure gets low enough, important parts of the body, like the brain, will not get enough blood and oxygen to survive.

Ventricular tachycardia can also lead to ventricular fibrillation, asystole (where the heart stops beating), and sudden death.

[[January 2016 East Asia cold wave]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 disasters, 2016 in Asia, 2016 in weather, 2010s disasters in Asia, East Asia, January 2016 events, Severe weather

The January 2016 East Asia cold wave was a cold weather system that covered East Asia. Eighty-five people from Taiwan died due to the cold temperatures. There were six deaths in Japan from the winter storms. Four people in China died from gas poisoning.

[[Mass Effect 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Electronic Arts video games, Video game sequels

Mass Effect 2 is a video game on the PlayStation 3. It is made by Electronic Arts. It is the sequel to Mass Effect and comes before Mass Effect 3. It is a action role-playing game. It is a third-person shooter game. It was also on Xbox 360.

[[Dragon and Phoenix]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy books, Romance novels, 1999 books

Dragon and Phoenix is the second book in the Dragonlords series written by Joanne Bertin. It is a story of how Linden Rathan and his soultwin, Maurynna Kyrissaean, lead a party to rescue a dragon from the Jehanglan empire.

[[Bard's Oath]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy books, Romance novels

The Bard's Oath is the third book in the Dragonlords series written by Joanne Bertin. It starts as two stories that merge in the middle of the book. One story is about Raven Redhawkson and why he is at the Balyaranna Fair (a horse festival). The other story is about Bard Leet and his plot for revenge over the death of a family member.

[[Aristide von Bienefeldt]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2016 deaths, Dutch LGBT people, Gay men, LGBT novelists, Writers from Rotterdam

Aristide von Bienefeldt (24 October 1959 – 16 January 2016) was a Dutch writer. He wrote about gay rights and marriage equality. His first novel - Bekentenissen van een Stamhouder ("Confessions of a Son and Heir") got positive reviews by the Dutch and the Flemish press because of its homosexual passages.

Von Bienefeldt died in The Hague, Netherlands at the age of 56.

[[William Y. Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American military people, People from Arkansas

William Young Smith (August 13, 1925 – January 19, 2016) was an American military official. He was a United States Air Force four-star general. He was Chief of Staff, Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (COFS SHAPE) from 1979 to 1981 and as Deputy Commander in Chief, U.S. European Command (DCINCEUR) from 1981 until his retirement from military service in 1983.

Smith died in Falls Church, Virginia from congestive heart failure at the age of 90.

[[Cecil Parkinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British politicians, Civil servants, Deaths from cancer, Former Conservative MPs (UK), People from Lancashire, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992

Cecil Edward Parkinson, Baron Parkinson, PC (1 September 1931 – 22 January 2016) was a British Conservative politician and cabinet minister. 

[[Black (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2016 deaths, Road accident deaths, Irish singer-songwriters, Singers from Liverpool, Musicians from Liverpool, Writers from Liverpool

Colin Vearncombe (26 May 1962 − 26 January 2016), known by his stage name Black, was an English singer-songwriter. He started his career in the punk rock music scene and went on to become a pop success in the late 1980s. He was known for the international hit single "Wonderful Life" in 1987. He was born in Liverpool.

[[Kalpana (actress)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian movie actors, People from Kerala

Kalpana Ranjani (13 October 1966 – 25 January 2016), known mononymously as Kalpana, was an Indian actress.  Kalpana has acted in over 300 movies in many South Indian languages. She was born in Kerala, India.

She started off her career as a child artist in the late 1970s. She was known for being in many comedy movies. At the 60th National Film Awards, she won the award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in Thanichalla Njan (2012).

Kalpana died of a heart attack in Hyderabad, India on 25 January 2016 at the age of 49.

[[Henry Worsley]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Deaths from multiple organ failure, British military people, Explorers, People from London

Lieutenant Colonel Alastair Edward Henry Worsley MBE (4 October 1960 – 24 January 2016) was a British explorer and British Army officer. He was part of the successful 2009 expedition that followed Ernest Shackleton and Robert Falcon Scott's footsteps in the Antarctic. He was born in London.

Worsley was a soldier in the British Army for 36 years. On 12 October 1993, Worsley was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) "in recognition of distinguished service in Northern Ireland".

Worsley died while on a trip in Punta Arenas, Chile from multiple organ failure caused by surgery on 24 January 2016 at the age of 55.

[[Mexican Cession]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s in Mexico, 1840s in the United States, 1840s treaties, 1848

The Mexican Cession of 1848 refers to the lands ceded or surrendered to the United States by Mexico at the end of the Mexican–American War. The territory became the states of California, Nevada, Utah and Arizona. It was agreed to in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which formally ended the war (1846–1848) between Mexico and the United States. The treaty was signed on 2 February 1848. The Cession added 500000 of territory to the southwestern United States. It also contributed to the United States emerging as a world power in the late the 19th century.

[[Forouzan]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, Iranian actors, People from Tehran

Forouzan  (فروزان Foruzan; 9 August 1937 – 24 January 2016) was an Iranian actress, producer, and dubbing artist. She started her career by voice dubbing. In 1964 she starred in Siamak Yasemi's "Sahel-e Entezar" but this was "Ganj-e Qarun", another movie by Yasemi that made her very famous. Her career came to an end because of the Iranian revolution of 1979.

Forouzan died in Tehran, Iran on 24 January 2016 at the age of 78.

Forouzan was popular also among the young Persians who were born after 1979 revolution.

[[Sahabzada Yaqub Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2016 deaths, Pakistani politicians

Sahabzada Yaqub Khan (23 December 1920 – 26 January 2016) was a high-profile Pakistani figure and high-ranking general. He was the most senior figure in military and government assignments in the Pakistan Government. He was born in Rampur, India.

He was an important figure in Pakistan that related to international affairs for thirty years. He served as the foreign minister under President General Zia-ul-Haq from 1982 to 1991 and as the caretaker foreign minister from 1996 to 1997. He also served as the Pakistan Ambassador of the United States serving from 1973 though 1979.

Khan died in Islamabad on 26 January 2016 at the age of 95.

[[Chikungunya]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses, Diseases spread by insects

Chikungunya (pronounced "chicken-GUN-yay") is an infection caused by the chikungunya virus.  It can cause joint pains that can last for weeks, months, or sometimes even years.  About 1 in every 1000 people who gets chikungunya dies.  People who are elderly or have other medical problems are most likely to die or get very sick from chikungunya.

Chikungunya is spread to humans by two species of mosquito: Aedes albopictus and Aedes aegypti.  These mosquitoes carry the infection to humans after biting monkeys, birds, cattle, or rodents who have chikungunya.  Since 2004, there have been outbreaks (where many people get chikungunya) in Asia, Europe, and The Americas.

There is no known treatment or cure for chikungunya.

[[Concepcion Picciotto]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American activists, Spanish people, People from Washington, D.C.

Concepción Picciotto (née Martín c. 1935 – January 25, 2016) also known as Conchita or Connie,  was a Spanish-born American peace activist. She lived in Washington, D.C. on the 1600 block of Pennsylvania Avenue, in a peace camp across from the White House. 

She lived in a tent outside from the White House since from August 1, 1981 because of the protest of nuclear arms under the Ronald Reagan presidency until her death in 2016.  She carried on the longest act of political protest in the United States, with her camp having been nicknamed by her supporters as 1601 Pennsylvania Avenue. She was born in Vigo, Spain.

Picciotto died in Washington, D.C. from complications of a fall on January 25, 2016 at the age of 80.

[[Richard Levins]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American biologists, American educators, American mathematicians, American philosophers, Ecologists, Scientists from New York City

Richard "Dick" Levins (June 1, 1930 – January 19, 2016) was an American ecologist, a population geneticist, biomathematician, mathematical ecologist, and philosopher of science. He had researched diversity in human populations. Levins was a university professor at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and a long-time political activist. He was best known for his work on evolution and complexity in changing environments and on metapopulations.

Levins died in Cambridge, Massachusetts on January 19, 2016 from heart failure at the age of 85.

[[Kaeng Krachan National Park]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 establishments in Asia, National parks in Asia, Geography of Thailand, 20th century establishments in Thailand

Kaeng Krachan (แก่งกระจาน) is the largest national park of Thailand. It is on the border with Myanmar, and joins with Myanmar's Tanintharyi Nature Reserve. It is popular with tourists, and is near the beach resort of Hua Hin.

The park covers parts of Phetchaburi Province and Prachuap Khiri Khan Province. It contains rainforest on the eastern side of the Tenasserim Mountain Range. The highest elevation is 1,20 m. Two main rivers begin within the park: the Pranburi River and the Phetchaburi River. The Phetchaburi is blocked by the Kaeng Krachan Dam at the eastern border of the park. The dam creates a lake covering an area of 46.5 km2. The dam was built in 1966. There are private plantations within the park.

The park was created on 12 June 1981. It was the 28th national park of Thailand. It originally covered an area of 2,478 km2. It was enlarged in December 1984. In 2005 it was shown to UNESCO for consideration as a World Heritage Site.

The forests contain a great variety of plants and animals. The killing of wild elephants is a big problem at the park. It is difficult to stop poachers.

[[Ignition]]

Ignition may refer to:

[[Karch Kiraly]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, 1984 Summer Olympics, 1988 Summer Olympics, 1996 Summer Olympics, American Olympic gold medalists, People from Santa Barbara, California, Sportspeople from California, Sportspeople from Michigan, People from Jackson, Michigan, American volleyball coaches, American volleyball players

Charles Frederick "Karch" Kiraly (ˈ) (born November 3, 1960) is an American volleyball player, coach and broadcast announcer. 

He was born in Jackson, Michigan. He grew up in Santa Barbara, California. 

[[Lloy Ball]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1972 births, American volleyball players, People from Fort Wayne, Indiana, Sportspeople from Indiana

Lloy James Ball (born February 17, 1972, in Fort Wayne, Indiana) is an American volleyball player, a member of American national team in 1993–2008, a participant of the Olympic Games Atlanta 1996, Sydney 2000, Athens 2004 and gold medalist of Beijing 2008, gold medalist of the NORCECA Championship 2007 and World League 2008, silver medalist of the Pan American 1995, bronze medalist of the World Championship 1994.  When not on the court actively playing the game, Ball operates Team Pineapple, a volleyball clinic that also features his father, Arnie Ball.

[[Luigi Mastrangelo]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, 2008 Summer Olympics, Italian Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Olympic bronze medalists, People from Apulia, Italian volleyball players

Luigi Mastrangelo (born August 17, 1975 in Mottola, Italy) is an Italian men's volleyball player, a member of Italy national volleyball team, silver and bronze medalist of the Olympic Games, multiple winner of the European Championship and World League. He competed in the 2000, 2004, 2008 and 2012 Summer Olympics. He won a bronze medal in the 2000 and 2012 Games. He won a silver medal in the 2004 Games. 

[[Ivan Zaytsev]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Italian volleyball players, Olympic bronze medalists

Ivan Zaytsev (born in Spoleto, Italy, 2 October 1988) is an Italian volleyball player. His parents originally come from Russia. He is a member of Italy's national volleyball team and the Italian club Sir Safety Umbria Volley. 

[[Matt Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, American volleyball players

Matthew John Anderson (born April 18, 1987) is an American volleyball player. He is a member of the United States men's national volleyball team and the Russian club Zenit Kazan. He played volleyball at the Olympic Games in London in 2012. He was a NORCECA Champion 2013. He won gold medals at the 2008 Pan American Cup, 2014 World League and 2015 World Cup.

[[Ophiolite]]

CATEGORIES: Igneous rocks, Plate tectonics

An ophiolite is a section of the Earth's oceanic crust and the underlying upper mantle that has been uplifted and exposed above sea level. The rocks which make up ophiolites are an altered form of basalt. The rocks are often green.

They are found in the mountain belts such as the Alps or the Himalayas. They show where former ocean basins were consumed by subduction. This was one of the discoveries of plate tectonics. Ophiolites have always played a central role in plate tectonic theory and the interpretation of ancient mountain belts.

[[Maxim Mikhaylov]]

CATEGORIES: Russian volleyball players, 1988 births, Living people, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic bronze medalists

Maxim Mikhaylov (born 19 March 1988) is a Russian volleyball player. He is a member of Russia men's national volleyball team. He also plays for the Russian club Zenit-Kazan. Mikhaylov was a gold medalist in the 2012 Summer Olympics. He was a bronze medalist of the 2008 Summer Olympics. Mikhaylov won a gold medal in the 2011 FIVB Volleyball Men's World Cup. He has won several medals in the Volleyball World League.

[[Yekaterina Gamova]]

CATEGORIES: Russian volleyball players, 1980 births, Living people, Olympic silver medalists

Yekaterina Aleksandrovna Gamova (Екатерина Александровна Гамова; born 17 October 1980) is a Russian volleyball player. She was a member of the Russian team that won the gold medals at the FIVB Volleyball World Championships in 2006 and 2010. She was also a member of the Russian team that won silver medals in both the Athens 2004 and Sydney 2000 Olympic Games. Gamova is 2.02 tall with an EU shoe size of 49. This makes her one of the tallest female athletes in the world.  Her role is outside hitter/opposite.

[[Flight of the Navigator]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 science fiction movies, 1980s fantasy movies, American science fiction movies, American fantasy movies, Movies set in Miami, Florida, Time travel movies, Disney movies, Movies directed by Randal Kleiser

Flight of the Navigator is a science fiction movie from 1986. It was directed by Randal Kleiser and written by Mark H. Baker and Michael Burton. It is about David Freeman, a 12-year-old boy who is taken by an alien spaceship and finds himself caught in a world that has changed around him.

The producers of the movie at first sent it to Walt Disney Pictures in 1984. However, the studio was not able to approve it. It was sent to Producers Sales Organization. That studio made a deal with Disney to distribute the movie in the United States. The movie was partially filmed in Fort Lauderdale, Florida and Norway. It was a co-production with the Norwegian company Viking Film.

[[Dinah Manoff]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from New York City, 1958 births, Living people

Dinah Manoff (born January 25, 1958) is an American stage, movie and television actress. She acted in many television movies and guest starred on television programs. She played Libby Tucker in both the stage and movie versions of I Ought to be in Pictures. She won a Tony Award in 1980 for acting in the play. She also acted in the theatrical movies Bart Got a Room and The Amati Girls.

In 1978, at age 19 she played Marty Maraschino in her first movie, Grease.

In 1980, Manoff played Karen, the suicidal friend of Timothy Hutton's character in the multiple Oscar-winning Ordinary People. In 1988, she played Maggie Peterson in Child's Play. She then began playing Carol Weston on the television series Empty Nest. She played that role for seven years.

Manoff was born in New York City.

[[Zika fever]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses, Diseases spread by insects

Zika fever is an illness caused by the Zika virus.  The Zika virus belongs to the genus Flavivirus, like dengue fever and chikungunya.  However, Zika fever is usually not as bad as those illnesses.  Most people who get the Zika virus (60-80%) have no symptoms.

People who do have symptoms usually have a low fever, conjunctivitis, joint pain (mainly in the hands and feet), and a rash.  The rash often starts on the face and then spreads to the rest of the body.  Usually, the symptoms are not very bad, and get better after 2 to 7 days.

Starting in 2015, there has been an outbreak of Zika virus (meaning that many people have gotten the virus) in Brazil.  Scientists think that when a woman with the Zika virus is pregnant, she can give the virus to her fetus.  Scientists think this can cause microcephaly, a birth defect that causes a baby to have a smaller head than usual.  This can cause intellectual disability and other problems in the brain, like seizures.  Because of this, in January 2016, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned pregnant women not to travel to Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, French Guiana, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Martinique, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Suriname, Venezuela, or Puerto Rico, because of the risk of getting the Zika virus there.

In places where the Zika virus lives, people are more likely to have birth defects, neurological problems like Guillain-Barré syndrome, and autoimmune diseases.

[[Zika virus]]

CATEGORIES: Viruses

Zika virus (ZIKV) belongs to the virus family Flaviviridae and the genus Flavivirus.  It is spread by mosquitoes from the genus Aedes, which are active during the daytime. 

Zika virus is named after Uganda's Zika Forest, where the virus was discovered in 1947.

Zika virus can cause an infectious disease called Zika fever.  Zika fever often causes no symptoms, or only mild symptoms. Scientists know that people in Africa and Asia have been getting Zika fever since the 1950s.  In 2014, the virus spread eastward across the Pacific Ocean - first to French Polynesia, then to Easter Island.  Finally, in 2015, it spread to Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean, and South America.  In these places, Zika virus has become a pandemic.

[[Rove beetle]]

CATEGORIES: Polyphaga

The rove beetles are a family of beetles. The scientific name is Staphylinidae. It is the largest family of beetles. It has over 63,000 species. Some of these species are very old; fossils of rove beetles have been dated to the Triassic, 200 million years ago.

They are mainly recognised by their short elytra (wing covers) that usually cover only half of their abdomens.

[[Devil's coach horse beetle]]

CATEGORIES: Polyphaga

The Devil's coach-horse beetle, is a very common beetle in Europe. It is also sometimes called the Cocktail beetle. It belongs to the family of the rove beetles.

[[Denny's]]

CATEGORIES: American restaurants

Denny's is a pancake house and casual family restaurant. It has more than 1,600 restaurants in the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, Canada, Central America, Mexico, New Zealand and Japan. It serves pancakes, eggs, sausage and more.

From the 1990s to the 2010s, Denny's was involved in serious controversy. They were accused of discrimination. In 1994, in San Jose, California, several black teenagers were told they had to pay before getting their food. In 2014, an LGBT group accused a Denny's location in Deming, New Mexico of discrimination. The group said that the wait staff said homophobic things and refused to serve them. The LGBT customers were attending a gay pride celebration.

[[Wayne County]]

Wayne County may refer to:

[[Fremont County]]

Fremont County may refer to:

[[Plano]]

Plano may refer to:

[[Fremont County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Freemont County, Wyoming, 1884 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Wyoming Territory

Fremont County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. In the 2010 census, 40,123 people lived there.  Its capital is Lander. The county was formed in 1884. It is named for John C. Frémont, a general, explorer, and politician. It is about the size of the state of Vermont.

Fremont County includes the Riverton, Wyoming Micropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Riverton, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wyoming, Freemont County, Wyoming

Riverton is a city in Freemont County, Wyoming in the United States. It is the largest settlement in Freemont County.

[[Lander, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wyoming, County seats in Wyoming, Freemont County, Wyoming

Lander is a city in Wyoming in the United States. It is the county seat of Fremont County. Lander is on the east side of the Wind River Mountains. Lander was founded by Gerbanmizer Mc'schnoudenstrauff.

[[Riverton]]

Riverton is the name of several places:

Riverton may also refer to:

[[Lander]]

Lander may refer to:

[[Atlantic City]]

Atlantic City may refer to:

[[Atlantic City, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Wyoming, Freemont County, Wyoming

Atlantic City is a census-designated place in the U.S. state of Wyoming. 

[[Lovell]]

Lovell may refer to:

[[Third Amendment to the United States Constitution]]

CATEGORIES: Amendments to the United States Constitution, United States Bill of Rights

The Third Amendment (Amendment III) to the United States Constitution places restrictions on the quartering of soldiers in private homes without the owner's consent. It forbids the practice completely during peacetime. The amendment is a response to the Quartering Acts passed by the British parliament between the French and Indian War and the American Revolutionary War. They allowed the British Army to house soldiers in private homes in the American colonies.

The Third Amendment was introduced in Congress in 1789 by James Madison. It was a part of the United States Bill of Rights in response to Anti-Federalist objections to the new Constitution. Congress proposed the amendment to the states on September 28, 1789. By December 15, 1791, the necessary three-quarters of the states had ratified it. Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson announced the adoption of the amendment on March 1, 1792.

The amendment is one of the least controversial of the Constitution and is rarely litigated. The American Bar Association called it the "runt piglet" of the U.S. Constitution. There were times when the US government probably violated this amendment. These include the War of 1812, the American Civil War, and during World War II in the Aleutian Islands. But as of 2015 it has never been the primary basis of a Supreme Court decision.

[[Boston King]]

CATEGORIES: 1760 births, 1802 deaths, African American writers, American autobiographers, American Methodists, American revolutionaries, Carpenters, Missionaries, Sierra Leone, Writers from South Carolina

Boston King from (circa 1760–1802) was a former Afro-American slave and British loyalist. He was born a slave in South Carolina and was apprenticed as a carpenter.  He joined the British when they occupied Charleston, as they promised freedom to slaves. Later, he gained his freedom from the British and settled in Nova Scotia after the American Revolutionary War. He later emigrated to Sierra Leone, where he helped found Freetown. King became the first Methodist missionary in Africa. King published his autobiography in 1798. He died about 1802 in Sierra Leone. 

[[Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution]]

CATEGORIES: United States Bill of Rights, Amendments to the United States Constitution

The Fourth Amendment (Amendment IV) to the United States Constitution prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures and requires any search warrant to be judicially sanctioned and supported by probable cause. It is part of the Bill of Rights. The Fourth amendment was adopted in response to the abuse of the writ of assistance, a type of general search warrant issued by the British government. It was a major source of tension in pre-Revolutionary America. The Fourth Amendment was introduced in Congress in 1789 by James Madison, along with the other amendments in the Bill of Rights. They were proposed in response to Anti-Federalist objections to the new Constitution. 

Congress sent 12 amendments to the states in August of 1789. Of these, 10 were approved by the states. The last state, Virginia ratified the amendments (including the fourth amendment) on December 15, 1791. On March 1, 1792, Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson announced the adoption of the amendment.

The Bill of Rights did initially apply to the states. Also, federal criminal investigations were less common in the first century of the nation's history. For these reasons there is little case law for the Fourth Amendment before the 20th century. The amendment was held to apply to the states in Mapp v. Ohio (1961).

Under the Fourth Amendment, search and seizure (including arrest) should be limited in scope to specific information supplied to the issuing court. This is usually by a law enforcement officer who has sworn by it. Fourth Amendment case law deals with three central questions. What government activities constitute "search" and "seizure"? What constitutes probable cause for these actions? How should violations of Fourth Amendment rights be addressed? Early court decisions limited the amendment's scope to a law enforcement officer's physical intrusion onto private property. But with Katz v. United States (1967), the Supreme Court held that its protections, such as the warrant requirement, extend to the privacy of individuals as well as physical locations. Law enforcement officers need a warrant for most search and seizure activities. But the Court has defined a series of exceptions for consent searches, motor vehicle searches, evidence in plain view, exigent circumstances, border searches, and other situations.

The exclusionary rule is one way the amendment is enforced. Established in Weeks v. United States (1914), this rule holds that evidence obtained through a Fourth Amendment violation is generally inadmissible at criminal trials. Evidence discovered as a later result of an illegal search may also be inadmissible as "fruit of the poisonous tree," unless it inevitably would have been discovered by legal means.

[[Royalty (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 albums, R&B albums, Funk albums

Royalty is the seventh studio album by American recording artist Chris Brown. It was released on December 18, 2015, by RCA Records. The album serves as the follow-up to his sixth album X (2014).

The album was dedicated to the daughter of Chris Brown, Royalty Brown.

[[Resisting arrest]]

CATEGORIES: Law enforcement in the United States

In some countries, resisting arrest is a criminal charge against a person who has ran away from a criminal offense.

[[Front-runner]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United States

In American politics, a front-runner or frontrunner is a leader/most popular in an electoral race.

A political front-runner, mainly during the U.S. presidential primary process, is the most likely to be the nominee or the one who leads in the polls. The front-runner is most often declared by the media who are following the race, and is written about in a different style than his or her challengers.

[[Sick leave]]

CATEGORIES: Employment

Sick leave (or paid sick days or sick pay) is time off from work that workers can use to stay home because they are sick and they do not lose pay. Paid sick leave is a requirement in many nations around the world. Most European, many Latin American, a few African and a few Asian countries have legal requirements for paid sick leave. Already in 1500 BCE, at least some of the workers who built the tombs of Egyptian pharaohs received paid sick leave as well as state-supported health care.

[[Annual leave]]

CATEGORIES: Employment

Annual leave is paid time off work given by employers to employees to be used for whatever the employee wishes. Depending on the employer's policies, there are different number of days off given. It is thought to be a benefit for the employees. Some employees must tell their boss a few days before they go on leave. Most countries around the world have labor laws that mandate employers give a certain number of paid time-off days per year to workers.

[[Conservatoire national des arts et métiers]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Paris, 1794 establishments, 1790s establishments in France

The Conservatoire national des arts et métiers is a graduate engineering school in Paris, France. It was created in 1794.

Its different programs lead to the following French and European degrees:

Classes and research are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students from a dozen nationalities participate in the different programs at CNAM.

[[Marasmus]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Marasmus is a form of malnutrition.  It happens in people (especially children) who do not get enough food.  A healthy person gets energy from eating food, especially foods with protein and fat in them.  Because a person with marasmus is not getting enough food, they do not get the energy they need to survive. This is due to deficiency of both proteins and calories. Generally, this disease when there is an immediate second pregnancy or repeated child births. Lean and weak, swelling limbs, less developed muscles, dry skin, diarrhoea, etc.., are the symptoms of this disease.

Children with marasmus look emaciated (very skinny).  This is because their bodies have burned up all of their fat and muscles to make energy.  The child's body weight will be less than 60% of a normal child his or her age.

Marasmus can be treated.  However, about half of children with bad malnutrition die because they cannot get treatment where they live.

The word “marasmus” comes from the Greek word μαρασμός marasmos (meaning "decay '')

[[Brindisi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Apulia, Capital cities in Italy

Brindisi is an Italian city in Apulia. Brindisi is the capital of the Province of Brindisi. It has about 85,000 people.

[[Blister agent]]

CATEGORIES: Chemicals, Chemical warfare

A blister agent, or vesicant, is a chemical compound that causes severe pain on the skin, in the eyes, and in the mucus membranes.  They can cause severe chemical burns, which then cause painful water blisters, on both the outside and the inside of the body.  (This is why these chemicals are called "blister agents.")  Throughout history, blister agents have been used for chemical warfare.

Some blister agents are used to treat medical problems - for example, to remove warts.  However, they must be used very carefully.  If a person accidentally gets even a little bit of the chemical in their mouth, they can die.

[[Zina]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic culture, Sexuality

Zināʾ (زِنَاء) or zina (زِنًى or زِنًا) is an Islamic law concerning unlawful sexual relations between male and female who are not married to one another through a nikah.  It includes extramarital sex and premarital sex. It also includes adultery (consensual sexual relations outside marriage). Zina covers fornication (consensual sexual intercourse between two unmarried persons), and homosexuality (consensual sexual relations between same-sex partners).

In the four schools of Sunni fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence), and the two schools of Shi'a fiqh, the term zināʾ is a sin of sexual intercourse that is not allowed by Sharia (Islamic law) and classed as a hudud crime (class of Islamic punishments that are fixed for certain crimes that are considered to be "claims of God").  To prove an act of zina, a qadi (religious judge) in a sharia court relies on an unmarried woman's pregnancy, the confession in the name of Allah, or four witnesses to the actual act of penetration. The last two types of prosecutions are uncommon. Most cases of zina in the history of Islam have been pregnant unmarried women. In some schools of Islamic law, a pregnant woman accused of zina who denies sex was consensual must prove she was raped with four eyewitnesses testifying before the court.  This has led to many cases where rape victims have been punished for zina.  Pressing charges of zina without required eyewitnesses is considered slander (Qadhf, القذف) in Islam, itself a hudud crime.

The above sense of zina is not to be confused with the woman's name Zina or Zeina (زينة). The name has a different linguistic root (Greek xen-). It also has a different meaning ("guest, stranger"), is pronounced differently (either Zīnah or Zaynah), and is usually spelled differently.

[[École Polytechnique]]

CATEGORIES: Alumni of the École Polytechnique, Technical colleges and universities in France, 1794 establishments, Paris, 1790s establishments in France

École Polytechnique (EP or "l'X") is the best-kown engineering school in France. It is in a campus of Palaiseau (Northern France).

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

Academic activities and industrial applied research are performed  in French and English languages. Students from a lot of nationalities participate to the different curricula at École Polytechnique.

[[Farmington]]

Farmington may refer to: 

in Canada:

in the United Kingdom:

in the United States (by state):

[[Ada County, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Ada County, Idaho

Ada County is a county in the U.S. state of Idaho.  As of the 2010 Census, 392,365 people lived in the county. That was more than any other county in Idaho. The county seat and largest city is Boise. Boise is also the state capital.

[[Hidden Spring, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Ada County, Idaho, Census-designated places in Idaho

Hidden Spring is a census-designated place in Ada County, Idaho, United States. Its population was 2,280 in the 2010 census.

[[Buddy Cianci]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, American mayors, American political commentators, American conservatives, Businesspeople from Rhode Island, Independent politicians in the United States, Writers from Rhode Island, Politicians from Rhode Island, People from Providence, Rhode Island, People from Cranston, Rhode Island

Vincent Albert "Buddy" Cianci, Jr. (s, see; ˈtʃaŋtʃi, CHAHN; April 30, 1941 – January 28, 2016,) was an American lawyer, convicted felon, conservative radio talk show host, politician and political commentator.

He served as the mayor of Providence, Rhode Island from 1975 to 1984 and again from 1991 to 2002. Cianci was the longest-serving mayor of Providence, and one of the longest-serving "big city" mayors in United States history, having held office for over 21 years.

Cianci died of colon cancer in Providence, Rhode Island on January 28, 2016 at the age of 74.

[[Carlos Loyzaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Filipino sportspeople, Basketball players

Carlos Matute Loyzaga (August 29, 1930 – January 27, 2016) was a Filipino basketball player and coach. He was born in Manila, Philippine Islands.

He was the most dominant basketball player of his era in the Philippines. He was called the greatest Filipino basketball player of all time. Loyzaga was a two-time Olympian (1952, 1956), as a member of the Philippines men's national basketball team.

Loyzaga died on January 27, 2016 in San Juan, Metro Manila from complications of a stroke at the age of 85.

[[PhinDeli Town Buford, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Wyoming, Albany County, Wyoming, 1866 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Wyoming Territory

PhinDeli Town Buford, originally known as Buford, is an unincorporated community in Albany County, Wyoming, United States. In 2013, it had only 1 resident.

[[Harmony, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Wyoming, Albany County, Wyoming

Harmony is an unincorporated community  in Albany County, Wyoming, United States. It is located about 17 southwest of Laramie. Harmony Elementary School is a part of Albany County School District #1. Older students attend school in Laramie.

[[Garrett, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Albany County, Wyoming, Unincorporated communities in Wyoming

Garrett is an unincorporated community in Albany County, Wyoming, United States.

[[Wellesley, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Massachusetts

Wellesley is a town in the U.S. state of Massachusetts.

[[Paul Kantner]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, American political activists, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, Jefferson Airplane members, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in San Francisco, Musicians from San Francisco, Singers from California

Paul Lorin Kantner (March 17, 1941 – January 28, 2016) was an American guitarist, vocalist, and political activist. He was known for co-founding Jefferson Airplane, a psychedelic rock band of the 1960s and its more commercial spin-off band Jefferson Starship. He was born in San Francisco, California.

Kantner died from multiple organ failure and septic shock caused by a heart attack in San Francisco, California on January 28, 2016. He was 74.

[[Dmitry Shirkov]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, People from Moscow, Russian physicists, Theoretical physicists

Dmitry Vasil'evich Shirkov (Дми́трий Васи́льевич Ширко́в; 3 March 1928 – 23 January 2016) was a Russian theoretical physicist. He was known for his works to quantum field theory and to the development of the renormalization group method. He used to work at Lund University in Sweden. He was born in Moscow, Russia.

Shirkov died at his home in Dubna, Russia from a heart attack on 23 January 2016 at the age of 87.

[[Middle Passage]]

CATEGORIES: Historic slave trade

The Middle Passage was the part of the Atlantic slave trade where African slaves were brought to the Americas on slave ships.  Millions of African people were shipped to the Americas over the Middle Passage.

Enslaved people were treated so badly on the slave ships that about 15% of them died during the Middle Passage.  Even more were killed before they left Africa, when slave traders were trying to kidnap them and force them onto the slave ships.  Historians think that up to two million African people died during the Middle Passage. However, somewhere between 9.4 million and 12 million African people survived the Middle Passage, and arrived in the Americas as slaves.

[[Jorma Kaukonen]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, American guitarists, American blues musicians, American folk musicians, American rock musicians, Jefferson Airplane members, Musicians from Washington, D.C., Musicians from San Francisco

Jorma Ludwik Kaukonen, Jr. (born December 23, 1940) is an American blues, folk and rock guitarist. He is best known for his work with Jefferson Airplane and Hot Tuna. Rolling Stone magazine ranked him #54 on its list of 100 Greatest Guitarists.

Kaukonen was born in Washington, D.C.. He moved to San Francisco, California in the 1960s and studied at Santa Clara University.

[[Jack Casady]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Jefferson Airplane members, American guitarists, American rock musicians, American blues musicians, Musicians from Washington, D.C.

John William "Jack" Casady (born April 13, 1944) is an American musician. He is called one of the popular bass guitarists of the rock music era. He is best known as a member of Jefferson Airplane and Hot Tuna. He was born in Washington, D.C.. He became the bass player for Jefferson Airplane with lead guitarist Jorma Kaukonen and Paul Kantner.

[[Sciences Po]]

CATEGORIES: Alumni of the Institut d'études politiques de Paris, Education in France, Paris

Sciences Po or Institut d'études politiques de Paris is a special university in France. The school is in Paris. It was created in 1872.

It is a specialist in the fields of economics, administration, social sciences and politics.

[[Work (Rihanna song)]]

CATEGORIES: Rihanna songs, 2016 songs, Drake songs, Dancehall songs, Reggae pop songs, R&B songs

"Work" is a song by Barbadian singer Rihanna. It is from her eighth studio album, Anti.  The song features Canadian rapper Drake.  It was released on January 27, 2016. It was the most heard song for its first day on the over 1,200 stations monitored by Nielsen music.  A few hours after its release, it was sent to digital outlets such as iTunes and Google Play Music.  Rihanna announced via Twitter that "Work" was the lead single for Anti.  In June 2017, the song was certified sextuple-Platinum in the US for sales and streams equal to six million copies.

The song was nominated for Record of the Year and for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in 2017.

[[Rover]]

Rover or rovers may refer to:

[[Slave ship]]

CATEGORIES: Historic slave trade, Ship types

Slave ships were large cargo ships specially converted for the purpose of taking slaves, especially newly captured African slaves to the Americas. Living conditions for slaves on these ships was inhuman. Men, women and children were crowded into every possible space leaving no room to move or even breathe. There was little food and the smell could not be described. Between 1526 and 1867 about 12.5 million slaves were sent by slave ships from Africa to the Americas. But only about 10.7 million slaves actually arrived. Of all human migrations it was the most costly in terms of human lives lost. The average time to sail across the Atlantic took from 60 to 90 days. Sometimes the trips took up to four months.

[[Gooding County, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Gooding County, Idaho, 1913 establishments in Idaho

Gooding County is a county in the U.S. state of Idaho. In the 2010 census, the population was 15,464. Its county seat is Gooding. It is named for Frank R. Gooding, an early 20th Century governor and United States Senator from Idaho.

[[Lost River, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Idaho, Custer County, Idaho

Lost River is a city in Custer County, Idaho, United States. It had 68 residents at the 2010 census.

[[Getúlio Vargas]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1954 deaths, Brazilian lawyers, Politicians who committed suicide, Presidents of Brazil, Suicides by firearm, World War II political leaders

Getúlio Dornelles Vargas (ʒeˈtulju doɾˈnɛlis ˈvaɾɡɐs; 19 April 1882 – 24 August 1954) was President of Brazil. He was the dictator from 1930 to 1945. Then he was elected President in 1951 and served until 1954. Vargas led Brazil for 18 years, the longest of any President. He was second in Brazilian history only to Emperor Pedro II among heads of state. He favored nationalism, industrialization, centralization, social welfare and populism. Vargas won the nickname "The Father of the Poor". He was a supporter of workers rights and was very much an anti-communist. He shot himself dead after he was forced by the Brazilian military to resign from the Presidency.

[[Custer County, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Custer County, Idaho, 1881 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Idaho Territory

Custer County is a county in U.S. state of Idaho. In the 2010 census, the population was 4,368. The county seat is Challis.

[[Bosler, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Albany County, Wyoming, Unincorporated communities in Wyoming

Bosler is an unincorporated community in Albany County, Wyoming, United States, along the Laramie River.  It lies along the concurrent U.S. Routes 30 and 287 north of Laramie.  Its elevation is 7,080 feet (2,158 m).  Although Bosler is unincorporated, it has a post office, with the ZIP code of 82051.

[[Gordon Goody]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, British people convicted of assault, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Spain, Criminals from London, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Andalusia, Great Train Robbers

Gordon Goody (11 March 1929 – 29 January 2016) was a British criminal and small businessman. He was born in London, England. Goody was known for playing a role in the Great Train Robbery in 1963 that was lead by Bruce Reynolds.Goody was sentenced to 30 years in jail, but was released in 1975. A year after his release, he moved to Spain were he opened a small business as a bar owner.

Goody died at his home in Mojácar, Spain from a heart attack on 29 January 2016 at the age of 86.

[[List of municipalities in Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Wyoming, Lists of settlements in the United States

There are 99 incorporated municipalities in the state of Wyoming.

[[List of census-designated places in Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Wyoming, Lists of settlements in the United States

This page lists census-designated places (CDPs) in the U.S. state of Wyoming. At the 2010 census, there were 104 census-designated places in Wyoming.

[[Powell, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wyoming, Park County, Wyoming

Powell is a city in Park County, Wyoming, United States. The population was 6,314 at the 2010 census.

[[Albany, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Albany County, Wyoming, Census-designated places in Wyoming

Albany is a census-designated place (CDP) in Albany County, Wyoming, United States. Its population was 55 at the 2010 census.

[[Centennial, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Albany County, Wyoming, Census-designated places in Wyoming

Centennial is a census-designated place (CDP) in Albany County, Wyoming, United States. The population was 270 at the 2010 census.

[[Ellis, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Custer County, Idaho, Unincorporated communities in Idaho

Ellis is an unincorporated community in Custer County, Idaho, United States. It is located on U.S. Route 93 15.5 northeast of Challis. Ellis has a post office with ZIP code 83235.

[[Lander, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Pennsylvania

Lander is a unincorporated community in Farmington Township in Warren County, Pennsylvania. 

[[Farmington, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Ohio

Farmington is an unincorporated community in Belmont County, Ohio, United States.

[[Hershey, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Pennsylvania

Hershey is a census-designated place (CDP) in Derry Township, Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, United States. Hershey's chocolates are made in Hershey, which was founded by candy magnate Milton S. Hershey.

The community is located 14 east of Harrisburg and is part of the Harrisburg−Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 14,257 at the 2010 census.

[[Lovell, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Ohio

Lovell is an unincorporated community in Wyandot County, Ohio.

[[Agnès Varda]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2019 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, Cinematographers, French artists, French educators, French feminists, French movie actors, French movie directors, French movie producers, French photographers, French screenwriters, Movie editors, People from Brussels-Capital Region

Agnès Varda (30 May 1928 – 29 March 2019) was a French movie director and producer, screenwriter, editor, actress, artist, photographer. She was also a professor at the European Graduate School.

Her movies, photographs, and artworks focused on realism, feminist issues, and social commentary with a distinct experimental style. Movie historians have cited Varda's work as central to the development of the French New Wave movie movement. She was known for her works Cleo de 5 a 7, La Pointe Courte, and Vagabond.

Varda was born in Ixelles, Brussels, Belgium to French parents. She studied at École des Beaux-Arts. Varda was married to Jacques Demy from 1962 until his death in 1990. They had one daughter, Rosalie.

Varda died of cancer on 29 March 2019 in Paris, at the age of 90.

[[U.S. News & World Report]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in the United States

U.S. News & World Report is an American media company that publishes news, opinions, consumer advice, rankings, and analysis. It was founded as a weekly news magazine in 1933. Since 2010, it mainly publishes its content on the internet. U.S. News is best known today for its influential rankings of colleges and hospitals. It has expanded its content on education, health, money, careers, travel, and cars.

The editorial staff of U.S. News & World Report is based in Washington, D.C. Brian Kelly has been the chief content editor since April 2007. The company is owned by Mortimer Zuckerman.

[[Richard Sugarman]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, American philosophers, Boston University alumni, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Scientists from New York, Writers from Buffalo, New York, Yale University alumni, Zionists

Richard Sugarman (born July 12, 1944) is an American academic and political advisor. He is a Professor of Religion and Philosophy at the University of Vermont. He has been called a "world-renowned expert on the Lithuanian-born philosopher Emmanuel Levinas." He is a political advisor to presidential candidate Bernie Sanders on his 2016 presidential campaign.

He studied philosophy at Yale and Boston University.

Sugarman is of Jewish descent. He is an Orthodox Jew and also a Zionist.

[[Huck Gutman]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, American educators, Writers from Vermont, People from Burlington, Vermont

Huck Gutman (born about 1944) is an American academic and political advisor. He is a Professor of English at the University of Vermont. He was the Chief of Staff to U.S. presidential candidate Bernie Sanders. He co-wrote Sanders' political memoir, Outsider in the White House.

[[Outsider in the White House]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 books, 2015 books, Bernie Sanders, Autobiographies

Outsider in the White House is a political memoir written by Huck Gutman and Bernie Sanders. It was first published as Outsider in the House in 1997. It was republished in 2015, when Sanders ran for President of the United States. The book contains an afterword by journalist John Nichols. 

The book talks about Sanders's support for the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution. This law gives United States citizens the right to own guns. 

[[John Roper, Baron Roper]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, British politicians

John Francis Hodgess Roper, Baron Roper (10 September 1935 – 29 January 2016) was a British politician.

Roper was elected Member of Parliament for Farnworth in 1970. He sat as a Labour Co-operative MP from 1970 to 1981, and for the Social Democratic Party (SDP) from 1981 to 1983, when he was also the party's Chief Whip. His Farnworth seat was then abolished, and he contested the seat of Worsley at the 1983 general election. He finished third in a three-way marginal election.

On 12 May 2000, he was created a life peer as Baron Roper, of Thorney Island in the City of Westminster. He was the Liberal Democrat Chief Whip in the House of Lords until 2005. He was then appointed to the Privy Council of the United Kingdom. In 2008, he was elected Principal Deputy Chairman of Committees. He retired from the House of Lords on 23 May 2015.

Roper died on 29 January 2016 after a long illness. He was aged 80.

[[Aleš Debeljak]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2016 deaths, Road accident deaths, Slovenian poets, Cultural critics, People from Ljubljana

Aleš Debeljak (25 December 1961 – 28 January 2016) was a Slovenian cultural critic, poet, and essayist. He was born in Ljubljana, Slovenia, Yugoslavia. From the mid-1980s onwards, Debeljak took an active part in civil society movements. He was one of the co-editors of popular journal Nova revija.

Debeljak was killed in a car crash on 28 January 2016. He was aged 54.

[[Augusto Giomo]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2016 deaths, 1960 Summer Olympics, 1964 Summer Olympics, Basketball players, Cancer deaths in Italy, Italian Olympians, Sportspeople from Veneto

Augusto Giomo (3 February 1940 – 27 January 2016) was an Italian basketball player. He competed at the 1960 and 1964 Summer Olympics. He finished in fourth and fifth place. His younger brother Giorgio played for Italy at the 1972 Summer Olympics. He was born in Treviso.

Giomo died in Treviso, from cancer, on 27 January 2016. He was aged 75.

[[Paul Terasaki]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, American educators, American philanthropists, Scientists from Los Angeles, California

Paul Ichiro Terasaki (September 10, 1929 – January 25, 2016) was an American scientist. He worked in the field of human organ transplant technology. He was the Professor Emeritus of Surgery at UCLA School of Medicine. Terasaki was born in Los Angeles, California. 

In 1964, Terasaki developed the microcytotoxicity test. This is a tissue-typing test for organ transplant donors and recipients. It required only 1 microliter of antisera used to identify human leukocyte antigens (HLA).

Terasaki died on January 25, 2016 after a long illness in Beverly Hills, California. He was aged 86.

[[Słopnice]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Poland

Słopnice s is a village in southern Poland. It is located in Limanowa County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Słopnice. It is located about 6 west of Limanowa and 50 south-east of the regional capital Kraków.

[[Michel Legrand]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2019 deaths, Academy Award winning composers, BAFTA Award winners, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from respiratory tract infection, French composers, French conductors, French pianists, Golden Globe Award winning composers, Musicians from Paris

Michel Legrand (24 February 1932 – 26 January 2019) was a French musical composer, arranger, conductor, and pianist. He was born Courbevoie, in present-day France.

Legrand was a well-known composer. He has written over 200 movie and television scores, as well as many memorable songs. 

He was best known for his movie music, such as The Umbrellas of Cherbourg (1964) and The Thomas Crown Affair (1968). The Thomas Crown Affair featured the song "The Windmills of Your Mind". Legrand won his first Academy Award for this song. He would win another Academy Award in 1971 for Summer of '42.

Legrand died suddenly from sepsis after suffering from a lung infection in Paris on 26 January 2019 at the age of 86.

[[Pressurized heavy-water reactor]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear power plants, Nuclear energy

A pressurized heavy-water reactor (PHWR) is a nuclear reactor developed by Canada. It commonly uses uranium as its fuel. It uses heavy water (deuterium oxide D2O) as its coolant and neutron moderator. The heavy water coolant is kept under pressure. This allows it to be heated to higher temperatures without boiling. While heavy water is a lot more expensive than ordinary water, it creates greatly enhanced neutron economy. This allows the reactor to operate without fuel-enrichment facilities (offsetting the additional expense of the heavy water).

[[List of presidents of the Marshall Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the Marshall Islands

The following is a list of presidents of the Marshall Islands, since the creation of that office in 1979. 

[[Whirlpool galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Spiral galaxies

The Whirlpool galaxy, is also known as Messier 51a, M51a, or NGC 5194. It is a large galaxy with well-defined spiral arms, with a smaller companion galaxy. They have been through a collision, and are still interacting.

The Whirlpool was the first galaxy to be classified as a spiral galaxy. Different methods put its distance as between 15 to 35 million light-years. Recently it was estimated to be 23 ± 4 million light-years from the Milky Way. Messier 51 is one of the best known galaxies in the sky.

Its spiral arms are so impressive and well-defined that it is called a "grand design" spiral galaxy. It has an active galactic nucleus, no doubt fuelled by a massive black hole.

The galaxy and its companion, NGC 5195, are easily seen by amateur astronomers, in the constellation Canes Venatici. The two galaxies can be seen with binoculars. The Whirlpool galaxy is also a popular target for professional astronomers. They study its galaxy structure (particularly the spiral arms) and galaxy interactions.

[[Museo del Prado]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century establishments in Spain, 1810s establishments in Europe, 1819 establishments, Art museums in Spain, Madrid

The Museo del Prado is a museum established on 19 November 1819, located in Madrid. It is one of the biggest and most important museums in the world. Its collection includes works of European artists, from the 12th to the 19th century. It was founded as a museum for paintings and sculptures, but also contains other types of works of art. The collections include many works of Francisco de Goya, Diego Velázquez, El Greco, Titian and Peter Paul Rubens and Hieronymus Bosch. In 2012, about 2.8 million people visited the museum. Some of the most famous paintings in the museum include: Las Meninas, The Garden of Earthly Delights, The Third of May 1808, and La Maja Desnuda. The architects that constructed the museum are Rafael Moneo and Juan de Villanueva.

[[Mathematical optimization]]

CATEGORIES: Science, Mathematics

In many branches of science, including mathematics, mathematical optimization is a branch that is about finding the element that gives an optimal solution to a problem, given some criteria. In the simplest case, this means that a function needs to be minimized or maximized. 

Many problems are more complex, though, and solving them analytically is not feasible: in these cases, numerical methods are often used.

The first step is usually to take the derivative of the initial function. From here maxima or minima can be found within a domain by simply finding the critical points. These include domain (x) values where the differentiated function equals 0 or does not exist. Simply finding critical points is not enough to determine maxima or minima. The final step to determining a maximum, minimum, or neither can be one of two methods.

(1) X values lesser and lesser than the critical point must be substituted into the differentiated function to determine if the values change sign. If they go from negative to positive, the critical point is a minimum. If they go from positive to negative, the critical point is a maximum. If neither occurs, the point is neither. This is known as the first derivative test.

(2) The derivative of the differentiated function can be taken, creating a second-order derivative. The critical point must be substituted into the second derivative. If the output is positive, the critical point is a minimum. If the output is negative, the critical point is a maximum. This is known as the second derivative test.

[[Arab slave trade]]

CATEGORIES: Historic slave trade, Arabia

Arab slave trade refers to the practice of slavery in the Arab world. This is mainly in Western Asia, North Africa, Southeast Africa, the Horn of Africa. It also includes parts of Europe (such as Iberia and Sicily) beginning during the era of the Muslim conquests and continuing into the 20th century. The trade was conducted through slave markets in the Middle East, North Africa and the Horn of Africa. Most of the slaves were from Africa's interior.

Historians estimate that between 650 AD and the 1960s, 10 to 18 million people were enslaved by Arab slave traders. They were taken from Europe, Asia and Africa across the Red Sea, Indian Ocean, and Sahara desert.

[[John King Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, African American politicians, Columbia University alumni, Harvard University alumni, Politicians from Brooklyn, United States Secretaries of Education, US Democratic Party politicians, Yale University alumni

John B. King Jr. (born 1975 in Brooklyn, New York City) is an American politician. He was the  Secretary of Education at the  U.S. Department of Education from 2016 to 2017. Before, he served as its Acting Deputy Secretary, and from 2011 to 2014 he was the  New York State Education Commissioner. 

The former Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, was given the job of putting into effect the No Child Left Behind Act. However, King is required to put into effect the law that replaces that law, the Every Student Succeeds Act.

[[Sally Jewell]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, United States Secretaries of the Interior, Businesspeople from Washington, Businesspeople from London

Sarah Margaret Roffey Jewell (born February 21, 1956) is a British-born American businesswoman. She is the 51st United States Secretary of the Interior. She served in the government of President Barack Obama from April 2013 to 2017. She is the second woman to hold the position, after Gale Norton.

[[Antennae galaxies]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

The Antennae galaxies (NGC 4038/NGC 4039) are two colliding galaxies. They are in the constellation Corvus. The process takes hundreds of millions of years, maybe even a billion years.

The collision, with its clouds of gas, dust and magnetic fields, causes extremely rapid star formation. This is their starburst phase, and might last a few hundred million years. They were discovered by William Herschel in 1785.

They are in the NGC 4038 group with five other galaxies. Before The Collision, NGC 4038 was a barred spiral galaxy and NGC 4039 was a spiral galaxy. These two galaxies are known as the Antennae galaxies because they have two long tails of stars, gas and dust ejected from the galaxies as a result of tidal force in the collision that look like an insect’s antennae. The nuclei of the two galaxies are joining to become one giant galaxy, sometime in the future to form an Elliptical galaxy.

These interacting galaxies are nearer and less remote to the Milky Way than previously thought—at 45 million light-years instead of 65 million light-years.

[[Yisroel Belsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, American rabbis, People from Brooklyn

Chaim Yisroel Belsky (August 22, 1938 – January 28, 2016) was an American rabbi and posek of Orthodox and Haredi Judaism. He was one of the roshei yeshivas at Yeshiva Torah Vodaas, and rabbi of the summer camp network run by Agudath Israel of America. He was born in Brooklyn, New York.

Belsky was criticized by other rabbis for his repeated defense of sexual abusers. Some have claimed that he intimidated victims of abuse. Belsky has publicly stated that victims should not report their rape to the police.

Belsky was taken to hospital on January 22, 2016 in Brooklyn. He had a "serious illness". He died eight days later on January 30, at the age of 77.

[[Jean-Marie Doré]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, Prime Ministers of Guinea

Jean-Marie Doré (12 June 1938 – 29 January 2016) was a Guinean politician. He was the Prime Minister of Guinea from January 2010 until December 2010.

Doré was the President of the Union for the Progress of Guinea (UPG). He was opposition leader for years before being chosen to lead a transitional government that was in place during the preparation and conduct of the 2010 presidential election.

Doré died in Conakry on 29 January 2016, at the age of 77.

[[T. N. Gopakumar]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in India, Indian writers, Indian movie directors, Indian journalists

T. N. Gopakumar (1957 – 30 January 2016) was an Indian writer, movie director and journalist. He was the news editor in chief of Asianet News. Gopakumar was also the producer and anchorperson of the popular weekly programme Kannadi on Asianet.

Gopakumar died of cancer in a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram on 30 January 2016. He was aged 58.

[[Georgia Davis Powers]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American civil rights activists, Politicians from Kentucky, US Democratic Party politicians

Georgia Montgomery Davis Powers (October 19, 1923 – January 30, 2016) was an American politician and civil rights activist. She served for 21 years as a member of the state Senate of Kentucky. When elected in 1967, she became the first non-White person and the first woman elected to the Kentucky Senate. She was born in Springfield, Kentucky.

Powers died of congestive heart failure in Louisville, Kentucky on January 30, 2016. She was aged 92.

[[Karolína Kurková]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Czech models

Karolína Kurková (born 28 February 1984), is a Czech model. She is best known as a former Victoria's Secret Angel.

[[Jean Paul Gaultier]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, People from Ile-de-France, French fashion designers, LGBT fashion designers

Jean Paul Gaultier is a French haute couture fashion designer. He created his own ready-to-wear brand in 1976. His first couture fashion show was in 1997. From 1993 to 1997, Trademark co-hosted Eurotrash with Antoine de Caunes on Channel 4 (UK). 

[[Piers Corbyn]]

CATEGORIES: Jeremy Corbyn, 1947 births, Living people, British businesspeople, Chippenham, People from Wiltshire

Piers Richard Corbyn (born 10 March 1947) is a British businessman, [[Conspiracy theory

[[2015 Jeremy Corbyn Labour Party leadership campaign]]

CATEGORIES: Leaders of the Labour Party (UK), Elections in the United Kingdom, 2015 in the United Kingdom, 2015 elections, June 2015 events, September 2015 events, Jeremy Corbyn

In 2015, Jeremy Corbyn, the Member of Parliament for Islington North, stood as a candidate in the British Labour Party leadership election. His campaign that would eventually result in his becoming the leader of the Labour Party.

His campaign was announced in an article for the Islington Tribune on 3 June 2015. Corbyn promised support for the anti-austerity movement and because he wanted to "give Labour Party members a voice" in the debate.

[[Leader of the Labour Party (UK)]]

CATEGORIES: Leaders of the Labour Party (UK), Labour MPs (UK)

The Leader of the Labour Party is the leading politician within the Labour Party in the United Kingdom. Since 4 April 2020, Keir Starmer is leader. He represents the constituency of Holborn and St Pancras.

The post of Leader of the Labour Party was officially created in 1922. Before this time, between when Labour MPs were first elected in 1906 and the election in 1922, when substantial gains were made, the post was known as Chairman of the Parliamentary Labour Party.

[[Islington North (UK Parliament constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Constituencies in the United Kingdom

Islington North ' is a constituency in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. The seat has been held since 1983 by Jeremy Corbyn of the Labour Party.  Corbyn has been Leader of the Labour Party and the Leader of the Opposition since September 2015.

At 735, it is the smallest UK Parliamentary constituency.

[[Tom Watson (Labour politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, British politicians, People from Yorkshire, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017

Thomas Anthony Watson (born 8 January 1967) is a British Labour Party politician. He was elected as Deputy Leader of the Labour Party in September 2015. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for West Bromwich East from 2001 through 2019. He was Minister for Digital Engagement and the Civil Service at the Cabinet Office from 2008 to 2009.

On 6 November 2019 Watson announced that he would be standing down both as an MP and as Deputy Leader, and leave office on 12 December 2019, stating that his reasons for standing down were 'personal, not political.' 

[[University of North London]]

CATEGORIES: Universities in London, 1896 establishments in England, 2002 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 2000s disestablishments in England

The University of North London was a university in London, England, from 1992 to 2002. It was merged with London Guildhall University to form London Metropolitan University. Its former campus are now the university's north campus, on Holloway Road and Highbury Grove, Islington. In 1996, the university celebrated its centenary year.

[[Michael O'Halloran (British politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 1999 deaths, British politicians

Michael Joseph O'Halloran (20 August 1933 – 29 November 1999) was a British politician. He was a member of the Labour Party and the Social Democratic Party.

He was elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Islington North in a by-election in 1969 after the death of MP Gerry Reynolds. He was secretary of the Constituency Labour Party. O'Halloran was among the Labour MPs who moved to the new Social Democratic Party (SDP) in 1981. 

In 1983, the SDP chose John Grant, the MP for Islington Central (which was being abolished in boundary changes), to be its candidate in Islington North. O'Halloran left the SDP to stand as an independent Labour candidate in the 1983 general election. The official Labour candidate Jeremy Corbyn won while O'Halloran came in fourth with 11% of the vote. Grant came third with 22% of the vote.

He retired to County Wexford. He died on 29 November 1999 from a heart attack at the age of 66.

[[Union representative]]

CATEGORIES: Unions

A union representative, union steward or shop steward is an employee of an organization or company who represents and defends the interests of her/his fellow employees but who also works for a trades union. 

Ordinary members of the union are elected to this position by fellow workers or sometimes by appointment of a higher union body. While working as a representative, they keep their role as an employee of the company. 

As a result, the union steward becomes an important link and source of information between the union leadership and ordinary workers.

[[Plainfield]]

Plainfield is the name of several places 

[[Torrington]]

Torrington may refer to:

[[Constituency Labour Party]]

CATEGORIES: Labour Party (UK)

A constituency Labour Party (CLP) is an organisation of members of the British Labour Party who live in a particular UK parliamentary constituency in England, Scotland and Wales. The Labour Party in Northern Ireland has, since February 2009, been organised as a single constituency.

For much of the Labour Party's history, especially during the 1980s, CLPs were perceived as the more left wing faction in the Labour Party. The unions were said to be a more moderate or pragmatic force.

[[Lost River]]

Lost River may refer to:

[[Whip (politics)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A whip is a person in a political party whose job is to make sure the party's members vote with the party. This happens in a legislature. Whips are a party's "enforcers", who talk to each member of the party to make sure that they vote according to the official party policy.

A whip must also make sure that the elected representatives of their party are in attendance when important votes are taken. The usage comes from the hunting term "whipping in", which means to stop hounds from wandering away from the pack. 

[[Lost River, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Kentucky

Lost River is an unincorporated community in Warren County, Kentucky, United States.

[[New Labour]]

CATEGORIES: Labour Party (UK), 1990s in the United Kingdom, 2000s in the United Kingdom

New Labour refers to a period in the history of the British Labour Party. This period was from the mid-1990s to the early 2000s, under leaders Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. The name dates from a conference slogan first used by the party in 1994. This slogan was later seen in a draft manifesto published in 1996, called New Labour, New Life For Britain. It was presented as the brand of a newly reformed party that had changed Clause IV and supported market economics.

[[Bridgeport]]

Bridgeport may refer to:

[[Bridgeport, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in New Jersey

Bridgeport is an unincorporated community in Logan Township, Gloucester County, New Jersey, United States. The area is served as United States Postal Service ZIP Code 08014.

[[Anti-austerity movement]]

CATEGORIES: Protests

The anti-austerity movement refers to the mobilization of street protests and grassroots campaigns that has happened across many countries, especially in Europe, since the onset of the worldwide Great Recession. 

Anti-austerity actions are different and ongoing. They continue as of the present day. The global Occupy movement has arguably been the most noticeable physical enactment of anti-austerity and populist sentiment.

[[United Kingdom government austerity programme]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United Kingdom

The United Kingdom government deficit reduction programme is a series of reductions in public spending, intended to reduce the government budget deficit and the welfare state in the United Kingdom. However, the NHS and education were "ringfenced" and protected from spending cuts.

[[Anti-war movement]]

CATEGORIES: Activism, War, Peace

An anti-war movement (also antiwar) is a social movement, usually against to a nation's decision to start or continue a war. It does not matter whether the nation has a just cause for war.

The term can also refer to pacifism, which is the opposition to all use of military force during conflicts. Many activists distinguish between anti-war movements and peace movements. Anti-war activists work through protest and other peaceful means to attempt to pressure a government (or governments) to put an end to a particular war or conflict.

[[Non-interventionism]]

CATEGORIES: International relations

Non-interventionism or non-intervention is a foreign policy that holds a country should avoid all wars unless it is defending itself from attack. It promotes neutrality and discourages alliances with other nations, but still encourages diplomacy.

The original, more formal definition is that non-interventionism is a policy of not interfering in the affairs of another country without its permission.

[[Cayetano Paderanga, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Filipino politicians, Economists, Filipino scientists

Cayetano Paderanga Jr. (October 9, 1948 – January 29, 2016) was a Filipino economist. He was Director-General of the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), an agency of the government of the Philippines responsible for economic development and planning. He held this position twice, from 1990 to 1992 and from 2010 to 2012.

In his first term, Paderanga served under President Corazon Aquino. He was a member of the Monetary Board of the Central Bank of the Philippines from 1993 to 1999. He was also Executive Director for the Philippines in the Asian Development Bank (ADB) from 2001 to 2003.

Paderanga died in Taguig City, Philippines, from complications after heart surgery, on January 29, 2016. He was aged 67.

[[Unilateral disarmament]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Unilateral disarmament is a policy option, to renounce weapons without seeking equivalent concessions from one's actual or potential rivals. It was most commonly used in the twentieth century in the context of unilateral nuclear disarmament, a recurrent mission of peace movements in countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom.

Nations do not often choose to dismantle their entire military capability. Unilateral disarmament is usually sought in one technical competency, such as weapons of mass destruction. Non-violent political movements from that of Mahatma Gandhi to the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament have recommended unilateral disarmament as a step toward world peace.

[[Nuclear disarmament]]

CATEGORIES: Protests, Politics

Nuclear disarmament talks about the act of reducing or eliminating nuclear weapons and to the end state of a nuclear-weapon-free world, in which nuclear weapons are completely eliminated.

Nuclear disarmament groups include the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, Peace Action, Greenpeace,  International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, Mayors for Peace, Global Zero, the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons (winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 2017), and the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation. 

There have been many large anti-nuclear demonstrations and protests. On June 12, 1982, one million people demonstrated in New York City's Central Park against nuclear weapons and for an end to the cold war arms race. It was the largest anti-nuclear protest and the largest political demonstration in American history.

In recent years, some U.S. elder statesmen have also advocated nuclear disarmament. Sam Nunn, William Perry, Henry Kissinger, and George Shultz have called upon governments to embrace the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons, and in various op-ed columns have proposed an ambitious program of urgent steps to that end. The four have created the Nuclear Security Project to advance this agenda. Organisations such as Global Zero, an international non-partisan group of 300 world leaders dedicated to achieving nuclear disarmament, have also been established.

[[Insubordination]]

CATEGORIES: Civil disobedience, Hierarchy

Insubordination is when people do not obey an authority. In the military, for example, insubordination is when a serviceman or servicewoman disobeys the orders of a higher-ranking officer.

A person may refuse to obey a law or order that he or she thinks is wrong. This is called civil disobedience.

[[Socialist Campaign Group]]

CATEGORIES: Labour Party (UK), 1982 establishments in the United Kingdom

The Socialist Campaign Group is a left-wing, democratic socialist group of Labour Party Members of Parliament in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. It was formed in December 1982 as an alternative Parliamentary left-wing group to the Tribune Group. The Campaign Group, as it is commonly known, is often considered on the hard left of the Labour Party and has been very critical of New Labour.

[[Palestine Solidarity Campaign]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in the United Kingdom, 1982 establishments in the United Kingdom, Arab–Israeli conflict, Political organizations

The Palestine Solidarity Campaign (PSC) is an activist organisation in England and Wales. It supports the Palestinian people. It was founded in 1982 during the build-up to Israel's invasion of Lebanon. It was incorporated in the UK in 2004 as Palestine Solidarity Campaign Ltd.

[[Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament]]

CATEGORIES: Political organizations, Politics of the United Kingdom, Nuclear weapons, Organisations based in the United Kingdom

The Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND) is an pacifist organisation that supports nuclear disarmament by the United Kingdom. It also supports disarmament by other countries and stricter weapons rules through international agreements such as the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. It opposes military action that may result in the use of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons. It also opposes the building of nuclear power stations in the UK.

[[Abjad]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabet

An abjad is an alphabet in which all its letters are consonants. Even though vowels can be added in some abjads, they are not needed to write a word correctly. Abjad are commonly written from right to left (RTL), rather than left to right seen in other writing systems. Well-known examples of abjads are the Arabic alphabet and the Hebrew alphabet.

Abjads are the first writing systems that were made only to show a word's pronunciation, instead of its meaning, unlike ideographs or ideograms, and they were created before full alphabets,  like the Greek alphabet, which have letters for both consonants and vowels.

The earliest known abjad in the world is the Phoenician alphabet. Since in Afro-Asiatic languages, the root meaning of a word is found in its consonants, abjads are widely used in those languages. There are also languages without consonant roots that use abjads, such as Persian and Urdu, which both use the Arabic alphabet.

[[Stop the War Coalition]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in the United Kingdom, 2001 establishments in the United Kingdom, Political organizations

The Stop the War Coalition (StWC; informally Stop the War) is a British group created on 21 September 2001, shortly after the September 11 attacks. It was created to campaign against what it believes are unjust wars.

The group has campaigned against the wars that are part of the "War on Terror" of the United States and its allies. It has campaigned against the war in Afghanistan and the Iraq War. The demonstration against the Iraq War on 15 February 2003 was organised with Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND) and the Muslim Association of Britain (MAB). It is claimed to be the largest public demonstration in British history.

[[Frank Finlay]]

CATEGORIES: BAFTA Award winning actors, 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United Kingdom, People with Alzheimer's disease, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from Lancashire

Francis Finlay, CBE (6 August 1926 – 30 January 2016) was an English stage, movie and television actor. Finlay was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as Iago in the 1965 movie version of William Shakespeare's Othello. He was also known for his role as Jacob Marley in the 1984 movie A Christmas Carol. He won a BAFTA Award in 1974.

Finlay died on 30 January 2016 at his home in Weybridge, Surrey. He died from heart failure after suffering from Alzheimer's disease. He was aged 89.

[[Kington St Michael]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Wiltshire, Civil parishes in England

Kington St Michael is a village and civil parish in Wiltshire, England. It is located about 3 north of Chippenham. It is about 0.7 west of the A350 which links Chippenham with junction 17 of the M4 motorway; the village is about 1.5 southwest of the junction. 

[[Pave Lane]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in the United Kingdom, Settlements in Shropshire, Villages in Shropshire

Pave Lane is a hamlet in Shropshire, a county of England. It is in the borough of Telford and Wrekin. 

It is located 1.5 miles (2.4 km) south of Newport, very close to the border with Staffordshire.

The hamlet is in a very rural area and has excellent views of the Shropshire countryside. It is close to Lilleshall Hall.

As it was located on a toll road between Newport and Wolverhampton, the village had many inns and coach houses. The road later became the A41.

[[Castle House School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, 1944 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in England

Castle House School is a preparatory day school for boys and girls in England. It was first established in 1944, at Chetwynd End, Newport, Shropshire. The school is owned and operated by the Castle House School Trust Ltd, a registered charity, by up to twelve governors of the Trust.

[[Newport, Shropshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Shropshire, Civil parishes in Shropshire

Newport is a market town and civil parish in the county of Shropshire in England. It is in the borough of Telford and Wrekin, near to the border with Staffordshire. It is around 6 miles (10 kilometres) north of Telford and around 12 miles (19 km) west of Stafford, Staffordshire's county town.

In 2011, a census revealed that the parish's population was 11,387 people.

The town has won seven Britain in Bloom gold medals, more than any other town in Great Britain.

Newport town centre has a lot of old buildings and architecture. The main street has a Norman design with a very wide High Street. 

[[Adams' Grammar School]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar schools in England, 1656 establishments, 17th century establishments in England, 1650s establishments in Europe

Adams' Grammar School (often abbreviated as AGS) is a selective boys' grammar school in England. It is located in Newport, Shropshire.

It was founded in 1656 by William Adams, a wealthy member of the Worshipful Company of Haberdashers (one of the Great Twelve Livery Companies of the City of London). It is now one of the country's best-performing schools. It was rated by the Ofsted as a Grade 1 outstanding school.

[[Chiune Sugihara]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1986 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Japan, Japanese diplomats, Righteous Among the Nations

Chiune Sugihara was a Japanese diplomat. He served as Vice-Consul for the Empire of Japan in Lithuania during World War II. He was best known for helping more than 6,000 Jews leave Lithuania during the Holocaust. He gave them visas to Japan. In 1985, Israel named him to the Righteous Among the Nations for his actions. He was sometimes called the "Japanese Schindler".

Sugihara was born in Yaotsu, Gifu. He was first married to Klaudia Semionovna Apollonova until their divorce in 1935. He was later married to Yukiko Sugihara. They had four sons.

Sugihara died on 31 July 1986 at a hospital in Kamakura. He was 86.

[[Ramón Castro Jijón]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1984 deaths, Admirals, Presidents of Ecuador, South American military people

Admiral Ramón Castro Jijón (15 November 1915 – 1 November 1984) was an Ecuadorian politician. He was the President of Ecuador from 11 July 1963 to 29 March 1966. He was appointed commander of the Ecuadorian Navy by Carlos Julio Arosemena Monroy. He later overthrew Arosemena in a military coup. For his entire term as President he was chairman of a military junta.

[[Union organizer]]

CATEGORIES: Unions

A union organizer (or union organiser) is a type of trade union official. In most unions, the organizer's role is to hire groups of workers under the organizing model. In other unions, the organizer's role is largely that of servicing members and enforcing work rules, similar to the role of a shop steward. In some unions, organizers may also take on industrial/legal roles such as making representations before Fair Work Australia, tribunals, or courts.

In North America, a union organizer is a union representative who "organizes" or unionizes non-union companies or work sites. Organizers are mainly there to help non-union workers in forming groups of locals, usually by leading them in their efforts.

A union organizer is either elected or appointed. Most unions appoint rather than elect their organizers.

[[Hebei]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of China

Hebei (Hanzi: 河北 ; pinyin: Héběi) is a province in China that wraps around the cities of Beijing and Tianjin, two of China's four "municipalities". The name Hebei means "North of the (Yellow) River" in Chinese. It was formed in 1928 after the central government dissolved Chihli province. The old name, Chihli or Zhili, which means "directly administered" referred to its status under the Qing dynasty. Hebei province borders Liaoning province on the northeast. On the north it borders Inner Mongolia. To the west it borders Shanxi province. It borders the provinces of Henan to the south and Shandong to the southwest. Shijiazhuang is the capital of the province.

The abbreviated name of Hebei is Ji (冀), since there is another province that also has the syllable "He" (河) in it, Henan (河南). Due to Hebei completely surrounding Beijing and Tianjin, the municipalities of Beijing and Tianjin and the province of Hebei are often lumped together and called Jingjinji, with the "Jing" being Beijing, the "Jin" being Tianjin, and the "Ji" being the abbreviation of Hebei.

[[Drakensberg]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Africa, Mountain ranges

Drakensberg (derived from Afrikaans Drakensberge, literally: Dragon mountains) is the highest mountain range in Southern Africa. The highest peak is in Lesotho, where they are called Maloti. The drakensberg are also known for their many waterfalls, and cave paintings done by the San people.UKhahlamba-Drakensberg Park, which was created in 2000, is an UNESCO World Heritage Site which covers part of the range. 

[[Moodle]]

CATEGORIES: Free software, Learning

Moodle is a free and open-source learning management system written in PHP and distributed under the GNU General Public License. It was designed for education as online learning space.

The name moodle stands for "Module Object Oriented Dynamic Learning Environment".

It was developed by Martin Dougiamas.

[[Thomas Bibb]]

CATEGORIES: 1783 births, 1839 deaths, Governors of Alabama

Thomas Bibb (May 8, 1783 – September 20, 1839) was the second Governor of Alabama. He was born in Amelia County, Virginia in 1783. Bibb was president of the Alabama Senate when his brother, Governor William Wyatt Bibb, died in office on July 10, 1820. The new state constitution specified the president of the senate was next in line as governor. So he took over the rest of his brother's term of office. Bibb served as acting Governor from July 25, 1820 to November 25, 1821. He decided not to run for the governorship again. Bibb was elected to the Alabama House of Representatives in 1828 and 1829. He was the director of the Huntsville branch of the Alabama State Bank. Bibb was married to Parmelia Thompson.

[[Deaths in February 2016]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, February 2016 events

The following is a list of notable deaths in February 2016. For notable deaths before the current month, please see "Months".  Names under each date are reported in alphabetical order by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are reported here also if notable.

[[Francisco Flores Pérez]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Presidents of El Salvador

Francisco Guillermo Flores (October 17, 1959 – January 30, 2016) was a Salvadoran politician. He served as President of El Salvador serving from 1999 to 2004 as a member of the conservative Nationalist Republican Alliance (ARENA) replacing Armando Calderón Sol. He was born in Santa Ana, El Salvador. At the time of his death, Flores was being investigated for corruption charges.

Flores died on January 30, 2016, at the age of 56. He died in a hospital in San Salvador from a Cerebral hemorrhage after having surgery to treat it.

[[Councillor]]

CATEGORIES: Local government, Government occupations

A councillor is a member of a local government council. In the United Kingdom all local authorities are overseen by elected councillors. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, most larger borough, unitary authority or county councils pay their councillors basic allowances and pay for their expenses.

Councilmember, councilman, councilwoman, councilor, or councillor is a title for a member of a council used in the United States.

[[District health authority]]

CATEGORIES: Public services in the United Kingdom, 1974 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1996 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Health care

A district health authority was a division of the National Health Service in England and Wales. It was introduced by the National Health Service Reorganisation Act 1973. It was created in 1974 and disestablished in 1996. There were 205 when they were established in 1974, but some were later merged. In 1979 there were 199.

The district health authority worked alongside a Family Health Services Authority, which was responsible for managing primary care services such as general practice, pharmacy and dentistry. The districts were reorganised on a number of occasions in the 1990s. In 1996 new single-tier health authorities replaced districts and areas and the regions were again reorganised. In 2002, Health Authorities were replaced by Primary Care Trusts.

[[National Union of Tailors and Garment Workers]]

CATEGORIES: Unions, 1991 disestablishments, 1920 establishments in the United Kingdom

The National Union of Tailors and Garment Workers (NUTGW) was a trades union in the United Kingdom. The union was founded as the Tailors and Garment Workers' Union (T&GWU) in 1920. In 1932, it was joined by the Amalgamated Society of Tailors and Tailoresses and renamed itself as the "National Union of Tailors and Garment Workers". The NUTGW had 118,700 members in 1945, making it the tenth largest union in Britain. The NUTGW merged into the General, Municipal, Boilermakers and Allied Trades Union in 1991.

[[Harringay]]

CATEGORIES: District and borough councils in England, London Borough of Haringey

Harringay  (pronounced ˈ) is a housing area in the London Borough of Haringey in north London, in England. It is centred on the section of Green Lanes running between the New River, where it crosses Green Lanes by Finsbury Park, and Duckett's Common, near Turnpike Lane.

[[2015 Labour Party leadership election (UK)]]

CATEGORIES: Leaders of the Labour Party (UK), Elections in the United Kingdom, 2015 in the United Kingdom, 2015 elections, August 2015 events, September 2015 events, Jeremy Corbyn

The 2015 Labour Party leadership election was election to choose the leader of the Labour Party in the United Kingdom. It won by Jeremy Corbyn. The election was held because Ed Miliband resigned on 8 May 2015, after the party's defeat at the 2015 general election. Harriet Harman, the Deputy Leader, became Acting Leader but announced that she would resign after the leadership election.

[[Camden New Journal]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in the United Kingdom, 1980s establishments in England

The Camden New Journal is a free, independent newspaper that covers the London Borough of Camden. It was created because of a strike in the 1980s supported by campaigning journalist Paul Foot, Holborn and St Pancras MP Frank Dobson and the paper's editor Eric Gordon. It has a lot of influence in Camden because of its news content, investigations and high number of readers.

It was named Free Newspaper of The Year at the Press Gazette's national industry awards in 2001, 2003, 2005 and 2010. It was nominated in 2002 and 2004.

[[Annual]]

Annual may refer to:

[[Private Finance Initiative]]

CATEGORIES: Economy of Australia, Economy of the United Kingdom, Public administration

The private finance initiative (PFI) is a way of creating partnerships between the public and private parts of the economy. It involves paying for public building projects (such as infrastructure) with money from private companies. It was created by the governments of Australia and the United Kingdom. It was used there and in Spain. PFI and its variants have now been used in many countries as part of the wider programme of privatisation and financialisation. This has been because of an increased need for accountability and efficiency for the spending of public money. PFI has also been used simply to avoid reporting costs and debt on the balance sheets.

[[HM Revenue and Customs]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the United Kingdom Government, Law enforcement agencies of the United Kingdom

Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HM Revenue and Customs or HMRC) is a non-ministerial department of the United Kingdom Government. It is responsible for the collection of taxes, the payment of some types of welfare, and the management of other regulations such as the minimum wage.

HMRC was formed when the Inland Revenue and Her Majesty's Customs and Excise were combined. This happened on 18 April 2005. The department's logo is the St Edward's Crown enclosed within a circle.

[[Senegambia]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 establishments in Africa, 1989 disestablishments, Former polities of the Cold War, Former countries in Africa, History of Senegal, The Gambia, 20th-century disestablishments in Africa

Senegambia was a region of West Africa occupying the area of present day Senegal and Gambia. The 20th century 

Senegambia Confederation, was a loose confederation between Senegal and Gambia. The term Senegambia was used by the British as early as 1765. They used it to refer to their settlements on the islands off the coast of present day Senegal. The modern use of the term Senegambia means the region that includes both Senegal and Gambia.

[[Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act 2013]]

CATEGORIES: Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, Same-sex marriage, LGBT politics in the United Kingdom, 2013 in the United Kingdom

The Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act 2013 (c. 30) is an Act passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It legalises same-sex marriage in England and Wales.

After the 2010 General Election, in September 2011, Liberal Democrat Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Equalities, Lynne Featherstone, announced they would try to make same-sex marriage legal from March 2012. The session closed in June 2012 and, in December 2012, the new Minister for Women and Equalities, Maria Miller, announced that the Government would be introducing a law before the next election. She also said that they were trying to get this done within parliament's current session. 

The Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Bill was introduced into Parliament on 24 January 2013. The leaders of the three main political parties in the United Kingdom gave their MPs a free vote. This means they would not be made to vote in favour or against it; they could vote however they wanted.

[[Labour Briefing]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of the United Kingdom, Labour Party (UK), 1980 establishments in the United Kingdom

Labour Briefing is a monthly political magazine made by members of the British Labour Party. The magazine was started in 1980 as London Labour Briefing.

Throughout the 1990s, London Labour Briefing lost supporters and influence as New Labour's hold over the Labour Party increased. This was also because control inside the Labour Party was centralised, and the role played by activists was reduced.

London Labour Briefing was renamed Labour Briefing and was then known as Labour Left Briefing. In 2008 it was changed back to Labour Briefing on merging with Voice of the Unions. It supports the Socialist Campaign Group of Members of Parliament, and aims to promote and build the network of local Campaign Groups.

[[Parliamentary select committees of the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United Kingdom

The parliamentary select committees of the United Kingdom are committees formed by members of the British Parliament. Members can be appointed from the House of Commons (like the Foreign Affairs Select Committee), from the House of Lords (like the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee), or as a "Joint Committee" drawn from both (such as the Joint Committee on Human Rights).

The House of Commons select committees are responsible for overseeing the work of government departments and agencies. Committees of the House of Lords look at general issues; for example, the constitution is considered by the Constitution Committee, and the economy is considered by the Economic Affairs Committee. 

[[Department for Social Security]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of the United Kingdom Government, 1988 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2001 disestablishments, 2000s disestablishments in the United Kingdom

The Department of Social Security (DSS) was a government department in the United Kingdom. The old abbreviation is still often used informally. 

The department was created in 1988. The Department of Health and Social Security was divided into two departments, one of which was the DSS. During 2001, the department was largely replaced by the Department for Work and Pensions. The other responsibilities of the department were assumed by the Treasury and the Ministry of Defence. 

[[London Regional Select Committee]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United Kingdom, London

The London Regional Select Committee was one of nine regional select committees of the House of Commons in the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The House of Commons agreed to create the committee on 25 June 2009, after committees for the eight other regions of England were created in November 2008. 'Regional ministers' were appointed by Gordon Brown when he was made Prime Minister in June 2007. The committee was created on 1 January 2009. It ceased to exist upon the dissolution of Parliament on 12 April 2010.

[[Justice Select Committee]]

CATEGORIES: Government of the United Kingdom

The Justice Select Committee is a committee made up of a small number of members of the British House of Commons. The committee looks at the policy, management and spending of the Ministry of Justice. It also looks at the work of the Law Officers of the Crown, the Serious Fraud Office, and the Crown Prosecution Service. It gives reports with opinions and advice.

The committee also reviews draft Sentencing Guidelines issued by the Sentencing Guidelines Council.

[[15 February 2003 anti-war protests]]

CATEGORIES: 2003, Iraq War, Protests

On February 15, 2003, there was a day of protests across the world. The protests were to express people's opposition to the imminent invasion of Iraq. They were held in more than 600 cities. It was part of a series of protests and political events that had begun in 2002 and continued as the war took place. Social movement researchers have described the 15 February protest as "the largest protest event in human history."

Sources vary in their estimations of the number of participants involved. According to BBC News, between six and eleven million people took part in protests in up to sixty countries over the weekend of the 15th and 16th. Other estimates range from eight million to thirty million.

Some of the largest protests took place in Europe. The protest in Rome involved around three million people, and is listed in the 2004 Guinness Book of World Records as the largest anti-war rally in history. Madrid hosted the second largest rally with more than 1.5 million people protesting the invasion of Iraq; Mainland China was the only major region not to see any protests on that day, but small demonstrations, attended mainly by foreign students, were seen later.

[[Iraq Inquiry]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United Kingdom, 21st century in the United Kingdom

The Iraq Inquiry is a public inquiry into the United Kingdom's role in the Iraq War. It is also called the Chilcot Inquiry after its chairman, Sir John Chilcot.

The inquiry was announced on 15 June 2009 by Prime Minister Gordon Brown. The original announcement was that the inquiry would take place in private. This decision was later reversed after receiving criticism in the media and the House of Commons.

On 6 July 2016, Sir John Chilcot announced the report's publication, more than seven years after the inquiry was announced. It referred to as the Chilcot report by the news media, the document stated that Saddam Hussein was not an urgent threat and that the Iraq War was not necessary. 

[[Andrew Murray (trade unionist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, British journalists, British activists

Andrew Murray (born 1958) is a British campaigner and journalist. He was Chair of the Stop the War Coalition from its formation in 2001 until September 2011, and again from September 2015 after Jeremy Corbyn resigned.

Murray has been a senior official for several trade unions over many years.

[[All-party parliamentary group]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the United Kingdom

An all-party parliamentary group (APPG) is a grouping in the British Parliament that is made up of politicians from all political parties.

If a parliament consists of both a lower house and an upper house, all-party parliamentary groups can usually include members of both houses. In the British Parliament, for example, APPGs include members of the House of Commons and the House of Lords.

In the British Parliament, an associate parliamentary group is similar to an all-party parliamentary group except that it is made up of not only members of the House of Commons or Lords but can also include members from outside Parliament.

[[Chagossians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Africa, Ethnic groups in Asia

The Chagossians (also Îlois or Chagos Islanders) are people who previously lived on the Chagos Islands. They are of African, Indian and Malay ancestry. They lived on Diego Garcia, Peros Banhos and the Salomon island chain, as well as other islands. They were forcibly removed from the islands by the British government in the late 1960s and early 1970s. This was done at the request of the United States government, so that Diego Garcia could become a military base. Most Chagossians now live in Mauritius and the United Kingdom. No Chagossians live in the Chagos Islands anymore, as it is now the site of the military base Camp Justice.

The Chagossians are mostly descended from African people, particularly from Madagascar, Mozambique and Mauritius. There is also a significant proportion of Indian and Malay ancestry. The French brought some to the Chagos islands as slaves from Mauritius in 1786. Others arrived as fishermen, farmers, and coconut plantation workers during the 19th century.

The Chagossians speak Chagossian Creole, a creole language based on French. It has words that come from various African and Asian languages. It is part of the Bourbonnais Creole family. Chagossian Creole is still spoken by some of their descendants in Mauritius and Seychelles. Chagossian people living in the UK speak English.

On 22 May 2019, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution 86 asking the United Kingdom to surrender the Chagos Archipelago to Mauritius within six months.

[[Chagos Archipelago]]

CATEGORIES: Archipelagos, Territorial disputes, Indian Ocean, Islands of Asia, British overseas territories

The Chagos Archipelago (ˈ or ˈ) or Chagos Islands (formerly the Bassas de Chagas, and later the Oil Islands) is a group of seven atolls in the Indian Ocean. The atolls are made up of more than 60 individual islands. The islands are located about 500 south of Maldives.

As of 2018, Mauritius has taken the matter to the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion, against British objections.

The islands make up the British Indian Ocean Territory.

On 25 February 2019, in an advisory opinion, the International Court of Justice found that the United Kingdom "illegally" separated the Chagos Archipelago from Mauritius after its independence in 1968. 

The UN General Assembly adopted a resolution on May 22, 2019, commanding Great Britain to return the Chagos Archipelago to the Republic of Mauritius within six months, which would allow Chagossians to recover their land.

[[Brighton hotel bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 in the United Kingdom, 1980s explosions in Europe, 1980s in England, 1980s murders in the United Kingdom, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1980s, Attacks on hotels, Brighton, Building bombings in England, Margaret Thatcher, Mass murder in England, Mass murder in the 1980s, October events, Provisional Irish Republican Army, Terrorist incidents in the United Kingdom in the 1980s

The Brighton hotel bombing was an attack at the Grand Hotel in Brighton, England. It happened on 12 October 1984. A time bomb was planted in the hotel by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (PIRA) member Patrick Magee. The purpose was to kill Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and her ministers, who were staying at the hotel for the Conservative Party conference. Thatcher narrowly escaped injury. Five people were killed, including two high-profile members of the Conservative Party, and 31 were injured.

[[Flexagon]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry, Origami

In geometry, a flexagon is a flat model, usually made by folding a piece of paper, so that when 'flexed' (folded), one or more hidden faces will be revealed (shown) from within the model.

Flexagons are usually square or rectangular (tetraflexagons) or hexagonal (hexaflexagons).  A prefix can be added to the name to show the number of faces that the model can display, including the two faces (back and front) that are visible before flexing.  For example, a hexaflexagon with a total of six faces is called a hexahexaflexagon.

[[Schlager music]]

CATEGORIES: Music genres

Schlager music is a kind of pop music, where the text often talks about sentiments. Schlager started with operetta music, at the end of the 19th century. In the 1920s, Jazz music influenced it. Musically, Schlager music often has simple structures. Very often, Schlager songs are commercially successful. 

[[Serotonin syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Illnesses, Nervous system

Serotonin syndrome, also known as serotonin poisoning, serotonin sickness, and many other names, is a medical condition that can happen if there is too much serotonin in your brain or other parts of your nervous system. Serotonin syndrome can be mild (doesn't make you very sick), but in rare situations, it can kill you. Serotonin syndrome can happen if you use some drugs that can increase the amount of serotonin in your nervous system. Some examples of drugs that can make you have serotonin syndrome are antidepressants, opioids, CNS stimulants, 5-HT1 agonists (a drug that changes the receptors of serotonin), psychedelics, herbs, and many others.

[[Keith Morrison]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Canadian journalists, People from Saskatchewan

Keith Morrison (born July 2, 1947) is a Canadian broadcast journalist. He has been a writer for Dateline NBC since 1995. In 1988 he joined NBC News as a west coast writer for the NBC Nightly News and Today Show.

[[Bill Nelson]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American astronauts, American lawyers, American military people, Cancer survivors, Episcopalians, Politicians from Miami, Florida, United States representatives from Florida, United States senators from Florida, University of Florida alumni, US Democratic Party politicians, Yale University alumni, 21st-century American politicians, 20th-century American politicians, Administrators of NASA

Clarence William "Bill" Nelson II (born September 29, 1942) is an American politician and astronaut. Nelson is the 14th and current Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration since May 2021. He is a member of the Democratic Party. He was the United States Senator from Florida from 2001 to 2019. He lost his re-election campaign in 2018 to Republican Governor Rick Scott.

He was a member of the Florida House of Representatives from 1972 to 1978 and in the United States House of Representatives from 1979 to 1991. In January 1986, he became the second sitting member of Congress to fly in space, after Jake Garn. He was a payload specialist on the Space Shuttle Columbia.

Nelson retired from Congress in 1990 to run for Governor of Florida, but was lost the Democratic nomination to Lawton Chiles.

In March 2021, President Joe Biden nominated Nelson to be Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in his administration.

[[Gail Halvorsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, American military people, Congressional Gold Medal recipients, People from Salt Lake City, Utah, American centenarians

Colonel Gail Seymour "Hal" Halvorsen (born October 10, 1920) is a retired career officer and command pilot in the United States Air Force.  He is well known as the original Candy Bomber or the "Rosinenbomber" in Germany and a recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal. He piloted C-47s and C-54s during the Berlin airlift ("Operation Vittles") from 1948–1949.

Halvorsen was born in Salt Lake City, Utah. In October 2020, he turned 100.

[[Władysław Szpilman]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2000 deaths, Polish composers, Polish writers, Holocaust survivors, Polish pianists

Władysław "Wladek" Szpilman (vwaˈdɨswaf ˈʂpʲilman; 5 December 1911spaced ndash6 July 2000) was a Polish pianist and classical composer.

Szpilman is known as the main character of the Roman Polanski movie The Pianist (2002). This movie is based on the book of the same name. It recounts Polanski's survival of the German occupation of Warsaw and the Holocaust.

Szpilman died in Warsaw, Poland on 6 July 2000 at the age of 88.

[[Dewlap]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy

A dewlap is a flap of skin that hangs beneath the neck of many animals. 

It can also be used to mean other things such as a double chin on a person or the vocal sac of a frog. The term dewlap can also be used to mean a caruncle, defined as "a small, fleshy excrescence that is a normal part of an animal's anatomy". At times the appearance of a dewlap indicates a stage in an animal's development. For example, the appearance of a dewlap on a female rabbit indicates she is of breeding age.

[[Radio galaxy]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

Radio galaxies and their relatives, radio-loud quasars and blazars, are types of active galaxy that are very luminous at radio wavelengths. They have luminosities up to 1039 W between 10 MHz and 100 GHz. 

The radio emission is due to the synchrotron process. The observed structure in radio emission is determined by the interaction between twin jets and the external medium, modified by the effects of relativistic beaming. Radio galaxies are almost exclusively large elliptical galaxies. Radio-loud active galaxies can be detected at large distances, making them valuable tools for observation. Recently, much work has been done on the effects of these objects on the intergalactic medium, particularly in galaxy groups and clusters.

[[Kho people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Afghanistan, Ethnic groups in Pakistan

The Kho people, also known as Chitralis, are an ethnic group in Pakistan, living mainly around the Chitral District. They speak the Khowar language. Their main religion is Sunni Islam. The Kho are excellent mountaineers who seemingly do not get tired or cold when working all day. 

[[Tony Skyrme]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1987 deaths, British physicists, Nuclear physicists, Scientists from London

Tony Hilton Royle Skyrme (s; 5 December 1922, Lewisham – 25 June 1987) was a British scientist who worked on the atom.

He was born in Lewisham , a suburb of London. His father was a bank clerk. He first went to a school in Lewisham , but  was so good at maths that he was given a free place at the famous  Eton college, a boarding school where only the wealthy sent their sons.

There he was also good at maths and won prizes in the subject. He got a place at Cambridge University and again was better than his fellow students leaving with the best degree, a first class degree.

When he left Cambridge in 1943 World War Two was at its height and he was told by the government to work on atomic energy under another scientist  Rudolf Peierls to help win the war.

When America began to secretly build the atomic bomb these two men and a few other Britons went to America to help them achieve their goal. Tony Skyrme did important work towards the two atomic bombs that ended the war.

He then worked back in Britain on studying atoms . He made up a way of understanding how atoms work by inventing an atom sized thing called a skyrmion which is not an atom but helps to understand the way atoms work. It is still used today to understand atoms.

[[Marvel]]

Marvel may refer to:

[[Biggin Hill]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Bromley

Biggin Hill is a small town, just on the edge of Greater London.

Biggin Hill has an airport that is famous for being used during World War 2, as well as it's yearly air show.

[[Skyrmion]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

A skyrmion is an quantum entity in atomic physics that can occur in some materials like solids and Bose–Einstein condensates. They are made up from a persistent vortex that is a quantum superposition of baryons and resonance states. These vortices behave like particles but are not. They are called quasiparticles and have mass just like a real particle.  

They were first though of mathematically by the British scientist  Tony Skyrme in 1962 and named after him in 1982. In 2009 physicists from the Technical University of Munich were able to create and see skyrmions for the first time in a very cold magnetic solid.

Skyrmions are important in  the emerging solid state technology of spintronics where they promise data storage at much higher densities than ever before.

[[Chrono (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Video game series, 1995 video games

The Chrono is a series of video games by Square Enix. The original game, Chrono Trigger, was released in 1995. The games are role-playing games. The other major game in the series is Chrono Cross. As of March 2011, the two games have sold over 5.3 million units.

[[Raid at Cabanatuan]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific battles of World War II, 1945 in Asia, 1940s in the Philippines, January events

The Raid at Cabanatuan, also known as The Great Raid, was a rescue of Allied prisoners of war (POWs) and civilians from a Japanese prisoner of war camp near Cabanatuan City, in the Philippines. With the landing and advance of General Douglas MacArthur in late 1944, it was feared the Japanese would move the prisoners to Japan or kill them. On January 30, 1945, during World War II, United States Army Rangers, Alamo Scouts, and Filipino guerrillas liberated 511 prisoners from the camp. The daring raid is still studied by Army Rangers today as a classic example.

[[Texas Instruments]]

CATEGORIES: Companies based in Texas, 1951 establishments in the United States, Companies listed on NASDAQ, 20th-century establishments in Oklahoma

Texas Instruments Inc. (TI) is a electronics company that makes semiconductors and other electronics, such as calculators. The company started in 1924 in Tulsa, Oklahoma as "Geophysical Research Corporation", a subsidiary of Amerada Petroleum. In 1930, they started a new independent company called Geophysical Service, Incorporated. It became a subsidiary of General Instruments in 1951. The same year the name was changed to Texas Instruments (TI). The company is headquartered in Dallas, Texas. Today TI is the third largest manufacturer of semiconductors in the world after Intel and Samsung. It is the second largest supplier of chips for cellular handsets after Qualcomm. TI is the largest producer of digital signal processors (DSPs) and analog semiconductors. They also make a wide range of other semiconductor products.

[[Shah Alam II]]

CATEGORIES: 1728 births, 1806 deaths, Mughal emperors

Shah Alam II, (25 June 1728 – 19 November 1806) was the eighteenth Mughal Emperor and the son of Alamgir II. He became the emperor of the Mughal Empire; his power was so depleted during his reign that it led to a saying in the Persian language, Sultanat-e-Shah Alam, Az Dilli ta Palam, meaning, 'The kingdom of Shah Alam is from Delhi to Palam', Palam being a suburb of Delhi.

[[Battle rap]]

CATEGORIES: Rap music, Hip hop genres

Battle rap (or rap battling) is a type of rapping that includes boasting and bragging. Rap battles are often performed as live contests in front of an audience. Two or more rappers compete to see who has the better verses. The raps can be rehearsed or freestyled. A freestyle battle is where the rappers use improvised lyrics. Battling can also occur on recorded songs.

Each competitor's goal is to insult their opponent through clever lyrics. They must also convince the audience that they are the better rapper. Judges have been used in formal contests. Without judges, the rapper who receives the best response from the audience is viewed as the winner.

[[Alley Mills]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Chicago, Living people, 1951 births, American television actors

Alley Mills (born May 9, 1951) is an American actress. She was born in Chicago, Illinois on May 9. Mills has appeared in the television shows Yes, Dear, Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman, Strong Medicine and Sabrina the Teenage Witch. She has appeared in theater productions.  Mills plays the character Pam Douglas in The Bold And The Beautiful. 

[[Benoît Violier]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2016 deaths, French chefs, Suicides by firearm, Swiss people

Benoît Violier (22 August 1971 – 31 January 2016) was a French-Swiss chef. He owned the three Michelin star Restaurant de l'hôtel de Ville from 2012 until his death. The restaurant was first on La Liste in December 2015.

Violier was born in Saintes, Charente-Maritime. He studied in Paris. He moved to Switzerland in 1996 to work for Philippe Rochat. He became a Swiss citizen in 2014.

Violier was found dead from a gunshot wound on 31 January 2016 in Crissier. He was 44. His death was reported as a suicide.

[[Death of a Hero]]

CATEGORIES: Novels, 1929 books

Death of a Hero is a book by Richard Aldington. It was his first novel, published in 1929. It is thought to be partly about his own life. The story is set during World War I.

[[Lewis V. Baldwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, American writers, American historians, Living people

Lewis V. Baldwin  (born 1949) is a professor of religious studies at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee. He is an award-winning historian and author of a number of books on Martin Luther King, Jr.

[[Little owl]]

CATEGORIES: Strigiformes

The little owl (Athene noctua) is a bird that lives in  the temperate and warmer parts of Europe, Asia (east to Korea), and North Africa. It was introduced into Britain at the end of the nineteenth century, and into the South Island of New Zealand in the early twentieth century.

This owl is a member of the Strigidae, which contains most species of owl. The other group is the barn owls, Tytonidae. 

The little owl is a small, mainly nocturnal species. It is found in a range of habitats such as farmland, woodland fringes, steppes and semi-deserts. It is camouflaged, and especially hard to see if the background is wood or stone covered with lichen. It feeds on insects, earthworms, other invertebrates and small vertebrates such as mice and shrews. 

Males have territories which they defend against intruders. This owl is a cavity nester and a clutch of about four eggs is laid in spring. The female does the incubation and the male brings food to the nest, first for the female and later for the newly hatched young. As the chicks grow, both parents hunt and bring them food, and the chicks leave the nest at about seven weeks of age.

There are thirteen recognized subspecies of little owl spread across Europe and Asia.

[[UBS]]

CATEGORIES: Banks, Finance, Companies of Switzerland, Zürich, Basel

UBS AG is a Swiss finance company. It is an investment bank. 60,000 people work with them in total around the world. The headquarters are in Zürich.

[[Hilda Heine]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Presidents of the Marshall Islands, Current national leaders

Hilda Heine (born April 6, 1951) is a Marshallese politician. On January 28, 2016, she became the President of the Marshall Islands. She is the first woman to be president of Marshall Islands.

[[Stop consonant]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

Stops or plosives are consonant sounds that are formed by completely stopping airflow. 

Stop sounds can be voiceless, like the sounds /p/, /t/, and /k/, or voiced, like /b/, /d/, and /g/. In phonetics, a plosive consonant is  made by blocking a part of the mouth so that no air can pass through. Pressure builds up behind the  block, and when the air is allowed to pass through again, a sound is created. This sound is the plosive consonant. The blocking is usually done using the tongue, the lips or the throat. Plosives can be voiced or voiceless. 

[[George P. Bush]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians from Texas, 1976 births, Living people, Politicians from Houston, Texas, US Republican Party politicians

George Prescott Bush (born April 24, 1976) is an American attorney, United States Navy Reserve officer, real estate investor and politician. He serves as the Commissioner of the Texas Land General Office. He is the oldest child of Florida Governor Jeb Bush. He is also the grandson of former President George H.W. Bush and the nephew of former President George W. Bush.

Bush was born in Houston, Texas.

[[Aramaic alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabets

The Aramaic alphabet was originally adapted from the Phoenician alphabet about the 8th century BC. It was first used to write the Aramaic language. It was also used to write several other languages and alphabets including the Hebrew square script.  It was also developed into the Nabataean, Syriac and Mongolian writing systems, among others. The modern Arabic alphabet is also descended from the Aramaic alphabet. 

The Aramaic alphabet contains 22 characters used mainly to indicate consonants. However, some symbols can be used to indicate long vowels. By comparison the later Hebrew and Arabic scripts use only consonants. Hebrew uses 22; Arabic 28.

[[Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the Swiss Confederation, 1956 births, Living people

Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf (born 16 March 1956) is a Swiss politician. She was in office from 1985 to 2015. She studied law at the University of Zürich.

[[Eric Garcetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Mayors of Los Angeles, American Jews, US Democratic Party politicians

Eric Michael Garcetti (born February 4, 1971) is an American politician. He has served as mayor of Los Angeles since 2013. He is a former member of the Los Angeles City Council, representing the 13th District. He served as Council President from 2006 to 2012.

He is a member of the Democratic Party. Garcetti won an election to become mayor on May 21, 2013. He defeated city Controller Wendy Greuel. Garcetti is the city's first elected Jewish mayor and its youngest in more than a hundred years.

His father, Gil Garcetti, is a lawyer and was the Los Angeles District Attorney during the O. J. Simpson murder case.

In May 2021, President Joe Biden nominated Garcetti to be the United States Ambassador to India.

[[Richard Riordan]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Mayors of Los Angeles, Politicians from New York City, US Republican Party politicians

Richard Joseph "Dick" Riordan (born May 1, 1930 in New York City, New York) is an American investment banker, businessman, investor and politician. He served as the 39th Mayor of Los Angeles, California from 1993 to 2001. He is a member of the Republican Party.

[[Tom Bradley]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1998 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Mayors of Los Angeles, Politicians from Texas, US Democratic Party politicians

Thomas J. "Tom" Bradley (December 29, 1917spaced ndashSeptember 29, 1998) was an American politician. He was the 38th Mayor of Los Angeles. He served from 1973 to 1993. He was the only African-American mayor of that city. His 20 years in office mark the longest time by any mayor in the city's history.

He became mayor after an election in 1973. It made him the second African-American mayor of a major U.S. city. Bradley retired in 1993. His approval ratings had begun dropping because of the 1992 Los Angeles riots.

Bradley ran for Governor of California in 1982 and 1986. He was defeated each time by the Republican George Deukmejian. In 1985, he was awarded the Spingarn Medal from the NAACP.

Bradley died on September 29, 1998 in Los Angeles. He died from a stroke caused by a heart attack. He was aged 80.

[[Roman Gribbs]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, American judges, Cancer deaths in Michigan, Mayors of Detroit, US Democratic Party politicians

Roman Stanley Gribbs (December 29, 1925 – April 5, 2016) was an American politician. He was the Mayor of Detroit from 1970 to 1974.  Later, Gribbs served as a judge on the Michigan Court of Appeals.

[[Dave Bing]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, African-American basketball players, African American politicians, Businesspeople from Washington, D.C., Sportspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Businesspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Boston Celtics players, Detroit Pistons players, Mayors of Detroit, Politicians from Washington, D.C., Sportspeople from Washington, D.C., US Democratic Party politicians, Washington Bullets players, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

David Bing (born November 24, 1943) is an American businessman, retired basketball player, and former mayor. He was mayor of Detroit, Michigan from 2009 to 2013.

After starring at Syracuse University, Bing played 12 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA) as a guard for the Detroit Pistons (1966 to 1975), Washington Bullets (1975 to 1977) and Boston Celtics (1977–78). He is now in the Basketball Hall of Fame.

Bing entered Detroit politics as a Democrat in 2008. He announced his intentions to run for mayor in Detroit's non-partisan primary to finish the term of Kwame Kilpatrick. Kilpatrick had resigned during a corruption investigation. After winning the primary, Bing then defeated interim Mayor Kenneth Cockrel, Jr. and was sworn in as mayor in May 2009. Later that year, Bing was re-elected to a full term.

[[Mike Duggan]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American lawyers, Businesspeople from Michigan, Mayors of Detroit, US Democratic Party politicians

Michael Edward  "Mike" Duggan (born July 15, 1958) is an American lawyer, prosecutor and businessman. He is serving as mayor of Detroit, Michigan. He was elected mayor in 2013.

He received attention from across the country in part because he is the first white mayor of the city since Roman Gribbs in the early 1970s. Currently, most of the people living in Detroit are African American. This was not the case at the time when Gribbs was mayor.

[[Mohammad Salimi]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2016 deaths, Generals, Government ministers, Iranian military people, Iranian politicians

Mohammad Salimi (سرلشکر محمد سلیمی; February 2, 1937 – January 30, 2016) was an Iranian military person. He was born in Mashhad, Iran. He was the commander-in-chief of the Iranian Army. He served in the Iran-Iraq War. He began his career in 1955 and resigned in 2005. Salimi was the defense minister in the cabinet of Mir-Hossein Mousavi, replacing Javad Fakoori. He was in office from 1981 to August 1984.

[[Paul Pholeros]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2016 deaths, Australian architects, Deaths from cancer, People from Sydney, University of Sydney alumni

Paul Pholeros AM (1953 – 1 February 2016) was an Australian architect. He was born in Sydney. He received his Bachelor of Science in Architecture from the University of Sydney in 1974 and Bachelor of Architecture (Hons 1) in 1976. Pholeros created his own architectural practice, Paul Pholeros Architects, in 1984. He was also a director of Healthabitat Pty Ltd.

Pholeros died in Sydney on 1 February 2016 from cancer at the age of 62.

[[Alejandro Jodorowsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Chilean movie actors, Chilean poets, Chilean movie directors, Screenwriters, Playwrights, Composers, Musicians

Alejandro Jodorowsky Prullansky (aleˈxandɾo xoðoˈɾofski; born 17 February 1929) is a Chilean movie and theatre director, screenwriter, playwright, actor, author, poet, producer, composer, musician, comic book writer. He also gives spiritual advice. He was known for his movies El Topo (1970), The Holy Mountain (1973), Tusk (1980), the horror Santa Sangre (1989) and the failed blockbuster The Rainbow Thief (1990).

He is best known for his avant-garde movies. He is popular among cult cinema fans for his work. His movies are "filled with violently surreal images" and a mix of "mysticism and religious provocation".

He was born in Tocopilla, Chile.

[[Graphing calculator]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematical tools, Computer hardware

A graphing calculator is a calculator that is specially made to draw graphs. Also, graphing calculators can do many advanced tasks, such as solving equations with one or more variables. Graphing calculators are usually bigger and more expensive than a basic calculator, but can do more. Another feature of most graphing calculators is programmability. This lets anyone program the calculator to do whatever he or she wants.

[[Fernando Arrabal]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, French playwrights, French screenwriters, French movie directors, French poets, Spanish screenwriters, Spanish movie directors, Spanish poets, Spanish Africa, Melilla

Fernando Arrabal Terán (born August 11, 1932) is a Spanish playwright, screenwriter, movie director, novelist and poet. Arrabal was born in Melilla, Spain, but settled in France in 1955. He calls himself desterrado, which means "half-expatriate, half-exiled".

In 1962, Arrabal co-founded the Panic Movement with Alejandro Jodorowsky and Roland Topor. It was inspired by the god Pan. He was elected Transcendent Satrap of the Collège de Pataphysique in 1990.

[[Jimmy Wales Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, Human rights organisations in the United Kingdom, Imprisonment and detention, Internet-related organizations

The Jimmy Wales Foundation is a non-profit organization started by Jimmy Wales to promote internet freedom. The organization was established with prize money from the “Knowledge Award”, which was presented to Jimmy and Tim Berners-Lee at the first Knowledge Conference in Dubai.

The organization talks about individual human rights cases of real people who were persecuted.  One of the people featured is Bassel Khartabil, formerly from Creative Commons Syria. Bassel was imprisoned in Syria in 2012, and disappeared completely a few years later. Bassel Khartabil has been killed in 2015. Another featured case is Roya Saberinejad, who went to visit her family in Iran, and never returned.

[[Word of mouth]]

CATEGORIES: Communication, Human communication, Oral tradition, Language

Word of mouth is the passing of information from a person to one or more people in conversation. In the past, it referred only to speech, but now, it can sometimes include online communication. It can be as simple as telling someone what time it is, or it can involve longer stories and news. It is a good way to share information about things that are of interest to a local community, such as businesses, other people, and things that happened in the past.

[[Ida B. Wells]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1931 deaths, Burials at Oak Woods Cemetery, American journalists, Civil rights activists, African American writers, Slaves

Ida Bell Wells-Barnett (July 16, 1862 – March 25, 1931), also known as Ida B. Wells, was an African-American journalist, suffragist and women's rights advocate. She was born a slave in Holly Springs, Mississippi during the American Civil War. Wells grew up to become a teacher in Memphis, Tennessee. She became co-owner of a local newspaper "The Free Speech and Headlight". She wrote editorials using the pen name "Iola". Many of her editorials were about the problems of African-Americans in the era of Jim Crow laws. She became a full-time journalist after being dismissed from her teaching job. Wells was an early pioneer in the civil rights movement. In 1909, Wells was one of the founders of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP).

Wells is buried at Oak Woods Cemetery in Greater Grand Crossing, Chicago, Illinois.

[[PlusLiga]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball, Sports leagues, Sport in Poland, 2000 establishments in Europe, Establishments in Poland

PlusLiga (PlusLiga Siatkarzy) is the highest level of men's volleyball in Poland. It is a professional league competition for volleyball clubs located in Poland. It is overseen by Profesjonalna Liga Piłki Siatkowej S.A. (PLPS S.A.). There are currently 14 teams in the league. They play a schedule of 26 games from September to March. The regular season is followed by playoffs. The winner earns the Polish Championship (Mistrzostwo Polski) It is one of the best volleyball leagues in Europe. According to the latest rankings of European volleyball leagues, compiled by the Confédération Européenne de Volleyball, the Polish league is ranked second-best.

[[Italian Volleyball League]]

CATEGORIES: Volleyball, Sports leagues, Sport in Italy

The Italian Male Volleyball League is the league that governs professional men's volleyball in Italy. It is structured with several levels of importance; the highest of them is the SuperLega (formerly Serie A1). Since early 1980s, many among the best volleyball players in the world play in SuperLega and the level of competition is considerably high.

[[École Centrale de Paris]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Paris, 1829 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in France

École Centrale de Paris is a graduate engineering school in France. It is in a campus of Chatenay-Malabry.

Its courses can lead to the following French and European degrees :

Courses are performed mainly in French and English languages. Students at the school come from more than 50 countries.

Most of the 2000 students at École Centrale de Paris live in dedicated housing buildings near to the research labs and metro public transport.

[[Lovely Professional University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in India

Lovely Professional University (LPU) is a Private University in North India created under the Punjab State Private University Act 2005 and recognized by UGC under Section 2(f) of UGC Act 1956. LPU has been offering more than 200 programs under 40+ disciplines.

[[Xenacoelomorpha]]

CATEGORIES: Animal phyla

Xenacoelomorpha is a proposed grouping of the xenoturbellids and acoelomorph flatworms, suggested by molecular data. It may be a member of the deuterostomes,  and may be even more basal in the Bilateria.

[[Mark Farren]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Irish footballers

Mark Farren (1 May 1982 – 3 February 2016) was an Irish footballer. He played as a forward for Derry City. He was born in Donegal, Ireland. He played for Finn Harps F.C. from 2000 to 2001, Monaghan United F.C. from 2001 to 2003, Derry City F.C. from 2003 to 2012, and Glenavon F.C. from 2013 to 2014.

Farren died on 3 February 2016 of cancer. He was aged 33.

[[Alba Solís]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Argentine actors, Argentine singers, People from Buenos Aires

Alba Solís (née Ángela Herminia Lamberti; 18 October 1927 – 3 February 2016) was an Argentine singer, actress and vedette. She was born in Buenos Aires. She was known for her roles in La cigarra está que arde, Estrellas de Buenos Aires, De turno con la muerte and Escándalo nocturno.

Solís died in Buenos Aires on 3 February 2016 from heart failure. She was aged 88.

[[Leonel Marshall]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Cuban volleyball players

Leonel Marshall Borges Jr.  (born September 25, 1979 in Havana) is a Cuban volleyball player. He was a member of the Cuban men's national team in 1997–2002. Marshall is an outside hitter. He is well known for his outstanding vertical jump.

[[Balram Jakhar]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Speakers of the Lok Sabha, Governors of Madhya Pradesh, Governors of Gujarat, Punjab, India

Balram Jakhar (23 August 1923 – 3 February 2016) was an Indian politician. He was a member of parliament and served as Governor of Madhya Pradesh from June 2004 to June 2009. Before being governor, Jakhar was the 8th Speaker of the Lok Sabha, serving from January 1980 to November 1989. He was born in Punjab.

Jakhar died from complications of pneumonia on 3 February 2016. He died in Delhi. He was aged 92.

[[Henry Gibson]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2009 deaths, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Cancer deaths in California, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television personalities, American singer-songwriters, Actors from Pennsylvania, Comedians from Pennsylvania, Singers from Pennsylvania, Writers from Pennsylvania

Henry Gibson (September 21, 1935 – September 14, 2009) was an American actor, singer and songwriter. He was best known as a cast member of Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In, for his role as Haven Hamilton in Nashville,  for his recurring role as Judge Clark Brown on Boston Legal, the Illinois Nazi leader in The Blues Brothers and as Bob Jenkins in King of the Hill.

[[Saulius Sondeckis]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Lithuanian people, Violinists, Conductors, Lithuanian educators

Saulius Sondeckis (11 October 1928 – 3 February 2016) was a Lithuanian violinist, conductor, orchestra leader and professor. He founded the Lithuanian Chamber Orchestra in 1960 and was its artistic director and principal conductor until 2004. 

Sondeckis was born in Šiauliai, Lithuania. He studied at Lithuanian Academy of Music and Theatre. Sondeckis died in Vilnius from a stroke on 3 February 2016. He was aged 87.

[[Amanda Crew]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television actors, Canadian movie actors, 1986 births, Living people, People from British Columbia

Amanda Crew (born June 5, 1986) is a Canadian actress. She acts in both movies and television. She played Julie Christensen in Final Destination 3. She also played Wendy in The Haunting in Connecticut.

Crew was born in Langley, British Columbia.

[[Luiz Felipe Lampreia]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Brazilian politicians, South American sociologists, Sociologists, People from Rio de Janeiro

Luiz Felipe Palmeira Lampreia (19 October 1941 – 2 February 2016) was a Brazilian diplomat and sociologist. He was born in Rio de Janeiro. Lampreia worked at as a professor at Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro. He served as chairman of the Industry Federation of the State of Rio de Janeiro. He created a blog during his later career called O Globo.

Lampreia died in Rio de Janeiro from a heart attack on 2 February 2016. He was aged 74.

[[Mere Broughton]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, New Zealand Māori people, Activists

Mary Mereiwa Broughton QSM, known as Mere Broughton (née Whakaruru, 1936/1937 – 31 January 2016), was a New Zealand Māori language activist and unionist. She was born in Hastings, New Zealand.

In the 1970s and 1980s, she worked at Victoria University. She created Te Herenga Waka Marae with her husband, Te Huirangi Waikerepuru, and Wiremu Parker. At the university she became active in union affairs, in the Association of University Staff (now the TEU). In 2010, she became the TEUs first lifetime member. Broughton was on the Tekaumārua, the advisory board to the Māori King, Tuheitia Paki. In 2014, she was part of the New Zealand delegation that sent off the canoes of the Polynesian Voyaging Society, Hōkūle'a and Hikianalia.

Broughton died on 31 January 2016 at her home in Waitara. She died from heart failure. She was aged 79.

[[Kim Yong-nam]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Civil servants, North Korean politicians

Kim Yong-nam (김영남; born 4 February 1928) is a North Korean politician. He serves as President of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly. He was position 1998-2019. Previously, he served as Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1983 to 1998. He was elected a member of the Presidium of the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Korea (WPK) in 2010.

[[Edward Babiuch]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Prime Ministers of Poland, Communists

Edward Mikołaj Babiuch (AUD; December 28, 1927 – February 1, 2021) was a Polish politician. He was a member of the Polish United Workers' Party, a Communist party. He was one of four deputy chairmen of the Polish Council of State from 1976 to 1980. Babiuch served as the Prime Minister of Poland in 1980, from February 18 to August 24 of that year.

Babiuch died in Warsaw on February 2, 2021 at the age of 93.

[[Final Destination 3]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 horror movies, American horror movies, American sequel movies, English-language movies

Final Destination 3 is a 2006 American horror movie. This is the third movie of the Final Destination series.

[[Everton Weekes]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2020 deaths, Barbadian sportspeople, West Indies cricketers

Sir Everton DeCourcy Weekes, KCMG, GCM, OBE (26 February 1925 – 1 July 2020) was a cricket player for the West Indies. Along with Frank Worrell and Clyde Walcott, he formed what was known as "The Three Ws" of West Indian cricket. He was born in Saint Michael, Barbados.

Weekes began his career in 1948. He scored 88 and 117 runs (retired) and was selected for the tour. He played his first match for Barbados on 24 February 1945. He was aged 19 years; it was one day before his 20th birthday. The match was against Trinidad and Tobago at Queen's Park Oval, Port of Spain. Batting at number six, he scored 0 and eight runs. Barbados lost by ten wickets. He retired in 1958.

Weekes died on 1 July 2020 in Christ Church, Barbados at the age of 95.

[[Precognition]]

CATEGORIES: Pseudoscience, Parapsychology

Precognition (also known as premonition or second sight) is an alleged psychic ability to see events in the future. However, as with most other forms of extra-sensory perception, there is no evidence any person has ever had precognition ability. But it still appears within movies, books and discussions within the parapsychology community. 

[[CBRNE]]

CATEGORIES: Terrorism, Chemical warfare, Explosives, Infectious diseases, Nuclear weapons

CBRNE is an acronym for Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and Explosive materials.  These materials are very dangerous, and can hurt many people.  When they are used on purpose, CBRNE materials are weapons of mass destruction.  However, CBRNE events can also happen accidentally.

A report from the White House in 2011 said "there is no greater danger to the States than a terrorist attack with a weapon of mass destruction."  Because CBRNE weapons are so dangerous, countries around the world are working on preventing CBRNE attacks, and learning how to react to them if they do happen.

[[Derry, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New Hampshire

Derry is a town in Rockingham County, New Hampshire, United States. The population was 33,109 at the 2010 census. Although it is a town and not a city, Derry is the fourth most-populous community in the state.

[[Mike Mansfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 2001 deaths, American academics, Ambassadors of the United States to Japan, American historians, American military personnel of World War I, American Roman Catholics, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Majority leaders of the United States Senate, Politicians from New York City, United States representatives from Montana, United States senators from Montana, US Democratic Party politicians

Michael Joseph "Mike" Mansfield (March 16, 1903 – October 5, 2001) was an American politician. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He served as a U.S. Representative (1943–1953) and a U.S. Senator (1953–1977) from Montana. He was the longest-serving Senate Majority Leader, serving from 1961 to 1977.

During his time, he led Great Society programs through the Senate and strongly opposed the Vietnam War.

After retiring from the Senate, Mansfield served as U.S. Ambassador to Japan from 1977 to 1988. On retiring as ambassador, he was awarded the nation's highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom (1989). He won this in part for his role in the resignation of Republican President Richard Nixon. Mansfield is the longest-serving American ambassador to Japan in history.

After his ambassadorship, Mansfield served for a time as a senior adviser on East Asian affairs to Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street investment banking company.

Mansfield died of congestive heart failure in Washington, D.C. on October 5, 2001. He was aged 98.

[[Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean football clubs

Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors (전북 현대 모터스) is a South Korean football club from Jeollabuk-do.

[[Intervertebral disc]]

CATEGORIES: Skeletal system

An intervertebral disc is a kind of padding between vertebrae in the vertebral column. They are shock absorbers in the spine, and are very important to the health of the spine. The disc is a fibrocartilaginous joint. It allows slight movement of the vertebrae, and acts as a ligament to hold the vertebrae together.

Discs have an outer fibrous ring, made up of both type I and type II collagen. Type I is concentrated towards the edge of the ring where it provides greater strength. The fibrous intervertebral disc contains the nucleus pulposus and this helps to  distribute pressure evenly across the disc.  

The nucleus pulposus contains loose fibers suspended in a mucoprotein gel. The nucleus of the disc acts as a shock absorber, absorbing impacts and keeping the two vertebrae separated. It is the remnant of the notochord.

[[Spintronics]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics

Spintronics is a kind of electronics that uses the tiny magnetic fields that come from electrons as well as their electric charge. The word spintronics is made up of the words spin and electronics

In atoms, electrons can be said to go around the nucleus of an atom and possess some spinning energy. They also have  their own spin, like a spinning top, which  is separate from the atom and they keep even when they are moving  freely. There are two ways for  something  to spin, clockwise and anti-clockwise. In the tiny quantum world the terms  'up' or 'down' are used instead. 

The electron spin of large numbers of electrons plays a role as a source of the magnetism in permanent magnets. In most materials these spins are random in direction and so no magnetic field results. In normal electronics  the flow of current in a wire  can also be used to produce a magnetic field which is known as electromagnetism. Neither of these form a part of spintonics.

In spintronics the property of the spin of the electrons themselves is used directly.  It  makes use of the electrons in a solid metal or semiconductor.

In spintronics the electron spin of just a few electrons in a material are made to align in one direction by briefly applying a very large magnetic field. Even when the magnetic field is removed the electrons will remain aligned in  their spins. This alignment will slowly fade away over time but will persist for a while.

Since these aligned spins produce a resultant  magnet field they can be detected and even used to move  the electrons.  

The deliberate moving of only those electrons with a certain spin  can be used to store information and this technology has been called spintronics to distinguish it from conventional use of electrons in electronics which uses their electric charge only.

Spintonics is an area of research in which scientists are trying to make useful devices and are making progress. Some devices write the electron spin codes into the surface of a moving disk and others make them in sold transistor junctions as RAM. They promise a technology that could create faster and  smaller electronic devices that  use less energy.

[[Nawab of Awadh]]

CATEGORIES: History of India

The Nawab of Awadh or the Nawab of Oudh (ˈaʊd) was the title of the rulers who governed the state of Oudh or Awadh in India during the 18th and 19th centuries. The Nawabs of Awadh belonged to a dynasty of Qara-Qoyunlu origin from Nishapur. Saadat Khan (1722–1739) became the first Nawab of Awadh in 1722. He was a Mughal wazir and the founder of the state of Awadh.

[[Antioch College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Ohio, National Register of Historic Places, 1852 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Ohio

Antioch College is a private, liberal arts college in Yellow Springs, Ohio, in the United States. Established in 1850 by the Christian Connection, the college began operating in 1852; politician and education expert Horace Mann became its first president. It was the founding, forming college of Antioch University, which Antioch College outlived until 2008. The College remained out of business for three years before being reestablished in 2011, and fully disconnected from the university as an independent institution by 2014.

The College has produced two Nobel Prize winners. José Ramos-Horta, the 1996 laureate for Peace, earned his Master of Arts in 1984. Mario Capecchi, the 2007 laureate for Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine, earned his Bachelor of Science in 1961.

[[Keytar]]

CATEGORIES: Keyboard instruments, Electronic musical instruments

A keytar is a musical instrument. It is shaped and held like a guitar, but has keys like a keyboard. Keytars are lightweight keyboards that have a strap that is put around the neck and shoulders. The instrument has a keyboard for playing musical notes and sounds. The earliest keytars were created around the 1970's. This picture of a keytar is one of the most popular keytars. Most popular keytars are seen with a red guitar neck and played in 1980 movies. first appeared in a magazine in 1980.

[[Melody Thomas Scott]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors

Melody Ann Thomas Scott (b. April 18, 1956) is an American actress who acts in soap operas. She played Nikki Newman on the soap opera The Young and the Restless. She also played Darlene Jarvis in The Waltons in the 1970s. She won awards for Outstanding Actress from the 17th Soap Opera Digest Awards for her act as Nikki Newman.

Thomas Scott started her career as a child actress. 

Thomas Scott was born in Los Angeles, California.

[[Show, don't tell]]

CATEGORIES: Writing

Show, don't tell is a type of writing technique used by authors. Instead of explaining a story, as in a summary, a writer makes the reader feel what is happening. It creates a picture of something in the reader's mind. When the reader gets a clear mental picture the story becomes more interesting. The technique is used in both fiction and non-fiction writing. 

[[Marlow Cook]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, United States senators from Kentucky, Politicians from New York, US Republican Party politicians

Marlow Webster Cook (July 27, 1926 – February 4, 2016) was an American politician. He was a member of the Republican Party. He served as the United States Senator from Kentucky from December 17, 1968 to December 27, 1974. He was born in Akron, New York.

Cook died in Sarasota, Florida on February 4, 2016. He died from complications of a heart attack. He was aged 89.

[[Joe Alaskey]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, 1952 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in New York, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York, Comedians from New York

Joseph Francis "Joe" Alaskey (April 17, 1952 – February 3, 2016) was an American stand-up comedian, actor, voice actor and impressionist. He was known for voicing Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Sylvester the Cat, Tweety and other characters from Warner Bros. cartoons. He voiced Plucky Duck on Tiny Toon Adventures from 1990 to 1995.

Alaskey won an Emmy Award in 2004.

Alaskey was the second actor to voice Grandpa Lou Pickles on Rugrats. He voiced Lou again in the Rugrats spin-off series, All Grown Up! and all three movies. He also voiced Stinkie in Casper.

Alaskey died in Green Island, New York from cancer on February 3, 2016. He was aged 63.

[[Abe Waddington]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1959 deaths, English cricketers, Sportspeople from Yorkshire, People from Bradford

Abe Waddington (4 February 1893 – 28 October 1959) was an English professional cricket player. He played for Yorkshire. He played two Test matches for England in 1920 and 1921. He also played football for Halifax Town.

[[Tweety]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional birds, Looney Tunes characters, Fictional characters introduced in the 1940s

Tweety (or Tweety Bird) is a fictional character from Looney Tunes. He is a yellow canary. He has also appeared in comic books.

[[Maurice White]]

CATEGORIES: Grammy Award winners, 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, American singer-songwriters, American soul musicians, American funk musicians, American jazz musicians, American R&B musicians, American R&B singers, Singers from Memphis, Tennessee, American funk singers, Singers from Chicago, Musicians from Memphis, Tennessee, Musicians from Chicago, Writers from Memphis, Tennessee, Writers from Chicago

Maurice White (December 19, 1941 – February 4, 2016) was an American singer-songwriter, musician, record producer, arranger and bandleader. He is the founder of the band Earth, Wind & Fire. He is also the older brother of current Earth, Wind & Fire member Verdine White, and former member Fred White. His career began in 1961. He retired in 2014 due to his health.

White was born in Memphis, Tennessee. He was raised in Memphis and in Chicago, Illinois. 

White served as the band's main songwriter and record producer, and was co-lead singer (along with Philip Bailey).  White has won seven Grammys, and was nominated for 21 Grammys in total.

White died in his sleep on February 4, 2016 from complications of Parkinson's disease. He died at his home in Los Angeles. He was aged 74.

[[Katie Ledecky]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Living people, American swimmers, American Olympic gold medalists, American Olympic silver medalists, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C.

Kathleen Genevieve Ledecky (born March 17, 1997) is an American competition swimmer. At the 2012 Olympics in London, she won the gold medal in the 800-meter freestyle. At the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, she won four gold medals.

At the world championships in 2013 in Barcelona, Spain, and the 2015 world championships in Kazan, Russia, she won 9 gold medals in total. She has broken a world record 13 times, in the 400-meter, 800-meter, and 1500-meter freestyle.

Ledecky was born in Washington, D.C.

[[Peter Barry]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Irish politicians, Irish businesspeople

Peter Barry (10 August 1928 – 26 August 2016) was a Irish politician and businessman. He was from Cork city. He was a member of Fine Gael. He was a Teachta Dála (TD; member of parliament) from 1969 to 1997, and Minister for Foreign Affairs from 1982 to 1987. He helped negotiate the Anglo-Irish Agreement. In 1987, he served for a short time as Tánaiste (deputy prime minister).

[[Chalice]]

CATEGORIES: Religious symbols, Containers

A chalice is a cup that has a footed part on the bottom. It is used in some religious ceremonies for drinking. 

[[Max Kaur]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Estonian politicians, Mayors

Max Kaur (born December 9, 1969 in Tallinn) is an Estonian politician. He is a member of the Centre Party. He was Mayor of Mustvee 2013-2017. Since 2018 he is a Jõhvi municipality vice-governor. Since 2019 he is a Mayor of Johvi.

[[IOS 9]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems, IOS

lowercase

iOS 9 (codenamed Monarch) is a version of iOS released on September 16, 2015. iOS 9 added many things to make the operating system better. Some of the things it added were a new News application, updates to the Notes and Map applications, and improvements to Siri and the Spotlight feature. For the iPad, iOS 9 also added a split screen feature. The current version of IOS 9 is IOS 9.3.6.

[[Dave Mirra]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2016 deaths, Businesspeople from New York, Sportspeople from New York, Sportspeople who committed suicide, Suicides by firearm in the United States

David Michael "Dave" Mirra (April 4, 1974 – February 4, 2016) was an American BMX athlete. He was also a driver for Subaru Rally Team USA. He was born in Chittenango, New York.

Mirra held the record for most X-Games medals until being passed by Bob Burnquist at X Games Munich in 2013. Mirra has won medals in every X Games from when they started in 1995 up to 2008. He has won a total of 24 medals at the X Games. In 2008, he placed second in BMX Big Air and third in Rally Car Racing at the X Games.

He was known mainly as a vert ramp and park rider. He rode and was sponsored by Haro Bikes from the mid 1990s. He later started his own bike company, and rode those instead. In 2004, Mirra appeared on an episode of George Lopez. Mirra was a member of the team which won the 2014 Race Across America Four-Person Male (Under 50) category.

He also was the host for two seasons of MTV's Real World/Road Rules Challenge.

[[Signe Toly Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from COPD, Jefferson Airplane members, Singers from Seattle, Washington

Signe Toly Anderson (September 15, 1941 – January 28, 2016) was an American singer. She was one of the founding members of the American rock band Jefferson Airplane. Anderson was born in Seattle, Washington.

Anderson died from complications of COPD at her home in Beaverton, Oregon. She was aged 74.

[[Property (disambiguation)]]

Property is the ownership of land, resources, objects, or intellectual property.

The word property can have several meanings:

[[Theatrical property]]

CATEGORIES: Theater

A property, commonly shortened to prop (plural: props), is any object used in performing arts during a performance. They are used on the stage in theatre, and on the screen by actors in movies and television. A prop is anything on a stage or a set that is able to be moved. It is different from the scenery, costumes and production equipment.

Anything that is used but is not part of the scenery (the set) is a prop, e.g., furniture, a book that an actor pretends to read, a pipe that they smoke. Food appearing in the production is also a prop.

Props are looked after by a properties master.  Sometimes, for small things like books or fans, it is the actor who is responsible for making sure he has the prop. This is called a "personal prop".

[[Material property]]

CATEGORIES: Materials science

In science, a property is anything that describes a material or substance. It is a characteristic of that material. For example, how hard the material is, its colour, or its shape. Elasticity is a property of rubber; in other words: rubber is elastic. A property may be a constant (always the same) or it may only appear when something changes, such as temperature.

Chemical properties include things like surface tension, pH, reactivity, allotropy. Conductivity is how able a material is to transport electric charge or heat.

[[Approximation theory]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematical approximation

Approximation theory is a field of mathematics which is concerned with approximating the values of a function. Usually, the approximation is only needed for a range of values or domain. A good approximation will only have a small error in the domain of interest.

There are different ways in which this approximation is done: common ones are using a combination of simpler functions or using polynomials. 

[[Bad Dudes Vs. DragonNinja]]

CATEGORIES: Arcade games, 1987 video games, Amiga games, Amstrad CPC games, Apple II games, Commodore 64 games, DOS games, Nintendo Entertainment System games

Bad Dudes Vs. Dragon Ninja is a video game created in 1988 by the company Data East. It was originally made for arcades. It was popular as an arcade game.

It is an action game with good charts and sound. There is a boss at the end of each level. In the last level all the bosses confront the player one by one. After they are all defeated, the Dragon Boss appears.

[[Mark B]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2016 deaths, British record producers

Mark Barnes (1970 – 1 January 2016) also known as Mark B, was a British hip-hop record producer. He was most active in the 1990s and early 2000s. He worked with Task Force and Blade on many of his records. Barnes was a disc jockey for Jazz Fudge Recordings for much of his career. Mark B first signed with Jazz Fudge in 1995. He produced some tracks for DJ Vadim's U.S.S.R. albums. His first individual album was Underworld Connection, released in 1997. He died in January 2016.

[[Killer Mike]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, American hip hop musicians, American rap musicians from Georgia, American activists, American movie actors, American songwriters, Writers from Georgia (U.S. state), Singers from Atlanta, Georgia, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia

Michael Render (born April 20, 1975), better known by his stage name Killer Mike, is an American hip hop singer, songwriter, activist, and occasional actor. He was born in Atlanta, Georgia. He is the founder of Grind Time Official Records. 

[[Kristine Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Buenos Aires, People from Fresno, California, People from Copenhagen, Actors from New Orleans, Louisiana, Actors from New York, Actors from San Francisco

Kristine Miller (June 13, 1925 – late 2015) was an American movie actress. She was known for her appearances in film noir and Western movies. She appeared in I Walk Alone (1948) with Lizabeth Scott and Burt Lancaster, Jungle Patrol (1948), Too Late for Tears (1949), Shadow on the Wall (1950), and the television series Stories of the Century (1954–55).

Miller was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, to a Danish father and a American mother. She was raised in the United States (in New Orleans, Fresno, Long Island, New York and San Francisco) and in Copenhagen in Denmark. Miller studied at San Francisco State College. She was married to William Schuyler from 1953 until his death in 2013. They had two daughters.

Miller died in late 2015 in a hospital from congestive heart failure in Monterey, California. She was aged 90. Her death was announced on February 4, 2016.

[[Sweet Hearts Dance]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies

Sweet Hearts Dance is a 1988 American comedy drama movie directed by Robert Greenwald. It was written by Ernest Thompson. It is about two small-town couples, one married for several years and the other at the beginning of their relationship. It stars Don Johnson, Susan Sarandon, Jeff Daniels, and Elizabeth Perkins. 

It was filmed in Hyde Park, Vermont. The mayor of Burlington and future United States senator Bernie Sanders had a cameo appearance in the movie. It was released on September 23, 1988 to mixed reviews. Critic Roger Ebert gave the movie two out of four stars.

[[Robert Shapiro (lawyer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American lawyers, Jewish lawyers, People from Plainfield, New Jersey, Businesspeople from New Jersey

Robert Leslie Shapiro (born September 2, 1942) is an American civil lawyer of Jewish descent. He is a senior partner in the law firm Glaser Weil Fink Jacobs Howard Avchen & Shapiro, LLP, which is based in Los Angeles.

Shapiro was born in Plainfield, New Jersey. He studied at the University of California, Los Angeles and Loyola Law School.

Shapiro is known for being part of the team which successfully defended O. J. Simpson in 1995 from the charges that he murdered his ex-wife Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman in 1994. Shortly after the O. J. Simpson trial, Shapiro moved his practice away from criminal defense toward the civil litigation arena.

He is also the voice of, and pictured in, the television commercials for the LegalZoom company he co-founded.

[[Laramie]]

Laramie may refer to.

[[Blood agent]]

CATEGORIES: Chemicals, Chemical warfare

A blood agent is a poisonous chemical.  A blood agent makes it impossible for a person's blood to hold oxygen and bring it to the rest of the body.  Every part of the body needs oxygen to survive.  Blood agents can cause life-threatening symptoms like seizures or coma, which happen because the brain is not getting enough oxygen.  In high enough doses, blood agents can make a person suffocate.

When they are used on purpose to kill many people, blood agents are weapons of mass destruction (WMDs).

The most common types of blood agents are chemical compounds that include cyanide.  However, other blood agents are based on arsenic.

[[Tunguska event]]

CATEGORIES: Natural disasters, 1908, Siberia, 20th century in Russia, Impact events

Tunguska event is the name for a very large mid-air explosion that occurred on 30 June 1908 in Siberia. Most eyewitnesses talk about one or more explosions that happened around 7:15 a.m. local time. The cause of these explosions is unknown, but a meteorite impact has been suggested as a likely cause.  About 30 around the place where the event happened, trees were uprooted. In Wanwara, a small settlement, about 65 away, windows and doors were smashed. It is estimated, that in an area of about 2,150, the trees were uprooted. Over 500 away, bright light was seen, and an earthquake was felt. 

There are no reports of people who have died. This is attributed to the fact that almost no people lived in the area, at the time. Depending on the source, there were one or two casualties.

Today, it is believed that the event happened about 7 above ground, at 0:14 UTC (7:14 a.m. local time).

[[Grand jury]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Legal terms, Trials

A grand jury is a legal body which has the power to conduct official proceedings to investigate possible criminal conduct. They also decide whether criminal charges should be brought. A grand jury may subpoena evidence and may compel the sworn testimony of witnesses who appear before it. Grand juries are made up of from 16 to 23 people in the United States. They meet for a period of one month up to a year. However, jurors may only have to meet for a few days each month. The juries meet in private. The suspected person, called a suspect, is not usually present. About half the state in the US do not regularly use grand juries. A preliminary hearing may be used instead. The Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution requires the use of grand juries by the federal legal system for all capital and "infamous crimes" (cases involving treason, certain felonies or gross moral turpitude).

[[Vault (gymnastics)]]

CATEGORIES: Gymnastics, Sports equipment

A vault is an apparatus that male and female gymnasts perform on. A vault is included in gymnastics competitions such as the olympics. The gymnasts first run before they flip on the vault. Either the male or female gymnast perform a flip in the air and land on the floor. When the gymnast lands on the floor, he or she has to be in balance.

Early forms of the vault were invented by German Friedrich Ludwig Jahn. The apparatus itself originated as a "horse", much like the pommel horse but without the handles. It was sometimes called a "vaulting horse". The horse was set up with its long side perpendicular to the run for women, and parallel for men. The vaulting horse was the apparatus used in the Olympics for over a century It began with the 1896 Summer Olympics and ending with the Gymnastics at the 2000 Summer Olympics.

Following a number of problems, International Gymnastics Federation (FIG) changed the apparatus. They did it for both safety reasons and for better acrobatics.  The 2001 World Artistic Gymnastics Championships were the first international competition to make use of the "vaulting table". This was an apparatus made by Dutch gymnastics equipment company Janssen-Fritsen since the mid-1990s. It features a flat, larger, and more cushioned surface almost parallel to the floor. It slopes downward at the end closest to the springboard. Gymnasts nicknamed it the "tongue".

[[Web design]]

CATEGORIES: Web design, Programming languages

Web design is a profession where a person designs a web page or a web site. The web page can have graphics, music, animations, and many other things on it. Some web design is done for businesses, and some is done for individual people. Some web designs are used a lot and have standard templates that are free for people to use.

People who design web pages are called web designers. Web designers use HTML or Dynamic HTML (DHTML), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), JavaScript, and many other technologies to make their pages. Web designers can make their pages on the Internet using website building software, or offline on their computer. Web designers in the United States of America can earn between $31,650 and $69,510 a year, with a median salary of $46,327.

Web design includes layouts, colors, graphics, fonts, and content.

The design of your website can either make or break the business you're trying to deliver. It really makes a difference how your target audience sees your business or organization and potentially turns them into your customers. When a company has a well-designed website, it's easier to get more customer conversions. This is because a well-designed website uses its features to lead consumers directly to what they need without distraction. So its very important to have a well-designed website in this Digital era.

[[Dallas McKennon]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2009 deaths, Actors from Oregon, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from natural causes in the United States

Dallas Raymond McKennon (July 19, 1919 – July 14, 2009), sometimes credited as Dal McKennon, was an American actor. He had many roles as a voice actor in a career lasting over 50 years. His best-known roles were that of Gumby for Art Clokey, Archie Andrews for Filmation's Archie series, and the main voice of Buzz Buzzard in the Woody Woodpecker cartoons.

[[Jefferson City]]

Jefferson City is the name of three places in the United States:

[[Albany County]]

Albany County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Sussex County]]

Sussex County may refer to:

In Australia

In the United States:

[[Kent County]]

Kent County may refer to:

[[Sten Mk II]]

CATEGORIES: Submachine guns

May 2020

The Sten Mk II was the main submachine gun of the British military in World War II. 

Early in the war, the US lent many weapons to the British to fight German forces, including the Thompson submachine gun. However, since the Thompson was expensive to make in large numbers, the British made a submachine gun of their own, that would be cheap and quick to make. This was the Sten Mk II.

The weapon was only made of 47 parts, making it relatively fast to put together and take apart and therefore easy to ship and hide. This feature made it popular among resistance fighters, including the Free French. 

It was also the first SMG to have a silencer made for it, making it useful for stealth and surprise. However, due to its low quality, it was not a very reliable weapon as it had the tendency to jam, and to fire entire clips without pulling the trigger. 

It is stated that British soldiers who captured German MP-40's would often abandon the Sten and fight using the MP-40 instead. The switch was not difficult since both weapons fired the same type of bullet, the 9x19mm Parabellum, with the same type of clips (which meant that they could use the enemy's ammunition to load their Stens or vice versa).

[[Hughes County]]

Hughes County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Thompson submachine gun]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 establishments, Submachine guns

The Thompson submachine gun, a.k.a. the Tommy gun, was an early submachine gun design. It was popular among soldiers, police, and civilians alike. It was invented by Brigadier General John T. Thompson at the end of World War I as a "trench-boom" weapon, or a weapon that could clear out trenches very quickly. The war ended before the submachine gun could be used in battle. In 1919, Brigadier General Thompson had the company he founded, Auto-Ordnance Company, modify the gun for civilian use. The gun was classified as a submachine gun, meaning a small, fully automatic, hand-held gun that fires pistol ammunition. It remains an iconic firearm that is very popular with collectors. It fires .45 ACP caliber bullets, an effective and accurate combat bullet against human targets.

[[Philip Bailey]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Actors from Denver, Colorado, African-American singers, American Christians, American funk musicians, American jazz musicians, American keyboard players, American movie actors, American pianists, American R&B singers, American rock drummers, American rock singers, American funk singers, American singer-songwriters, American soul singers, Grammy Award winners, Musicians from Colorado, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees

Philip James Bailey (born May 8, 1951) is an American singer-songwriter, percussionist and actor. He was one of the lead singers (along with group founder Maurice White) of the band Earth, Wind & Fire. He has won seven Grammy Awards. He has released ten albums, including Chinese Wall. He also performed the duet "Easy Lover" with Phil Collins.

Bailey was born in Denver, Colorado. He has been married twice and has six children.

[[.45 ACP]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons, Ammunition

The .45 ACP (Automatic Colt Pistol) or 45 Auto (11.43×23mm) is a type of bullet, made to be used in the M1911 pistol used by the U.S. Military. It was first made by John Browning in 1904, the "ACP" in the name stands for "Automatic Colt Pistol". It was the standard for handguns in the U.S. military until they switched to the Beretta M9 (Beretta 92) in 1985 that used a smaller caliber 9mm bullet.

The .45 is famous for being the bullet used in the M1911 and for being the choice of the U.S. Military for their pistols for almost 75 years. The .45 ACP has good stopping power because of the large size of the bullet, a .45 ACP bullet is almost half an inch. When shot at human targets, the .45 ACP bullet makes a big hole that causes blood loss and leads to faster death. 

It was used for guns like the M1911, the Thompson submachine gun, the M3 Grease Gun, the USP45, the UMP45, the TDI Kriss Super V, the MAC-10, and many other guns.

[[John Jenkins (composer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1592 births, 1678 deaths, English composers, People from Kent

John Jenkins (1592–1678) was an English composer. He became famous for writing music for small groups for amateurs and gentlemen to perform in their houses. He performed at court for King Charles I. After the Restoration he was appointed as a court musician.

He is best known for his consort music for viols, mainly fantasias. About 800 of his works have survived.

[[Minik Wallace]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1918 deaths, Disease-related deaths in New Hampshire, Greenlandic people, Infectious disease deaths in the United States

Minik Wallace (also called Mene ; about 1890 – 29 October 1918) was an Inuit from Greenland. He was brought to New York City as a child in 1897, by the explorer Robert Peary. His father and four others were also brought. The six of them were studied by staff at the American Museum of Natural History, which was given custody of them. Most of them died soon after arriving. 

Minik was a member of the Inughuit, the northernmost group of Inuit in Greenland. His father was named Qisuk. They met Peary when the explorer employed men from the Inughuit during several expeditions into the Arctic. Peary asked some of them to come with him to New York. Six of them agreed, including Qisuk and Minik. Peary did not tell them about the real purpose of the trip. Some agreed to travel to see new places; others did not want to be separated from relatives. Peary promised them that they would be able to return to Greenland. Soon after their arrival, the group became the objects of study. The museum staff had not made plans for their care, nor for their return.

Soon after arriving in New York, most of the Inuit contracted the disease tuberculosis. Three adults and one child died, including Minik's father. A fourth adult survived and was returned to Greenland. Minik was the only one left. William Wallace, the curator of the museum, adopted Minik. Minik pleaded for a proper Inuit burial for his father. The museum staff wanted to preserve Qisuk's body for study. They made a fake body and put it in a coffin. They staged a fake burial so that Minik would think he was burying his father.

The museum put the skeleton on display. In about 1906, a story was published in local newspapers that stated Qisuk's skeleton was displayed in the museum. Minik was told about it by his classmates at school. He then asked that his father's bones be given to him for traditional burial. Wallace supported Minik in this, but the museum denied that they had the body. Minik was never able to reclaim his father's bones.

Minik returned to Greenland in 1910, with the help of Peary. He came back to the United States in 1916. He lived and worked there until dying of influenza in the pandemic of 1918.

Kenn Harper wrote a book about Minik in 1986. The book was called Give Me My Father's Body. Harper spent several years trying to persuade the Museum of Natural History to return the remains of the four Inuit to Greenland. He succeeded in 1993. The bodies were buried in a funeral in Qaanaaq. Minik is buried in a cemetery in Pittsburg, New Hampshire.

[[Shaolin]]

Shaolin may refer to:

[[Social spider]]

CATEGORIES: Spiders

A social spider is a species of spider which lives in a group. Most spiders are solitary, but a few species in tropical habitats live in large groups. 

This social organisation has evolved independently a number of times. At least 23 species in eight families are known.

These spiders have not developed a caste system, and so they are not classed as eusocial. The first one was discovered over a century ago by Eugène Simon (30 April 1848 – 17 November 1924). This French naturalist described over 4,000 species of spider.

[[Fayetteville]]

Fayetteville is the name several places in the United States.

[[Fayette]]

Fayette is the name of several places in the United States.

[[Louisiana–Monroe Warhawks]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana, Sports in the United States, Sun Belt Conference

The Louisiana–Monroe Warhawks are the sports teams that play for the University of Louisiana at Monroe. There are 16 teams.

[[Luger]]

CATEGORIES: Pistols

The Luger was a German semi-automatic pistol that was introduced in 1908. It was the first pistol to use the 9x19mm Parabellum bullet. Its magazines hold eight bullets.

Technically, it was and is held in high esteem. The workmanship was top-class, and its performance was highly respected. The Luger was eventually replaced by the Walther P38 officialy, but there were still many German soldiers and officers who used the Luger during World War II.

The 9 millimeter bullets designed for the gun are still a standard for NATO forces.

[[FedEx Express]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the United States, Memphis, Tennessee, 1971 establishments in the United States

FedEx Express is an international cargo airline and delivery service. It has a hub in Memphis, Tennessee, in the United States.  FedEx Express is part of FedEx Corporation.

[[Hui people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in China

The Hui people (回族) are one of the 56 recognized ethnic groups in China. Even though they are ethnically related to the Han Chinese (being from the Central Plains) they are considered distinct from them because the majority practice Islam, unlike most of the Han Chinese. They are called the Hui (which translates into "return" in Chinese) because the Chinese recognize that one of the Five Pillars of Faith in Islam is the hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. A traditional name for Islam in Chinese is Huíjiào (回教) for the same reason.

The Hui are the third largest ethnic group in and the largest Muslim-majority ethnic group in China with about 9.8 million people. The region with the largest number of Hui is Ningxia, China's Hui autonomous region. However, there are also many Hui living in Gansu, Xinjiang, Qinghai, Hebei, Henan, Yunnan, and Shandong.

Despite using some Arabic and Persian words in religious activities, Chinese is the first language of most Hui. As a matter of fact, there are many Hui who know no Arabic other than words in everyday Islamic vocabulary.

Since the Hui follow the halal diet, the diet Muslims are commanded to eat, Hui food is made largely of wheat, beef, and mutton, which is different from other kinds of Chinese food since they more often use rice and pork. A Hui dish famous throughout China is Lanzhou niurou lamian, or Lanzhou beef pulled noodles, which has around 100,000 restaurants in China.

Hui who live in regions of the former Soviet Union and Xinjiang are called Dungan by Russians and Turkic-speaking people, but the Hui do not call themselves that name.

[[Greenville]]

Greenville is the name of several places:

[[Cerebrospinal fluid]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the nervous system, Brain

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) bathes and protects the central nervous system (the brain and the spinal cord). "Cerebro" means "brain"; "spinal" is a short version of "spinal cord"; and fluid is a liquid.

CSF is made by networks of blood vessels called choriod plexuses in each of the brain's four ventricles.

CSF flows through the subarachnoid space – the space between the two layers of meninges that are closest to the brain (the arachnoid layer and the pia mater). CSF also fills the brain's ventricles, and flows down the middle of the spinal cord (the central canal).

[[Bodil Malmsten]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Sweden, Swedish novelists, Swedish poets

Bodil Malmsten (19 August 1944 – 5 February 2016) was a Swedish poet and novelist. She wrote over fifteen books from 1977 to her death. Her best known book was the English translation of Priset på vatten i Finistère (The Price of Water in Finistère) which was awarded Book of the Week by BBC Radio 4.

Malmsten was born in Bjärme, Jämtland. Her grandfather was designer and architect Carl Malmsten (1888–1972).

Malmsten died from cancer on 5 February 2016 in Stockholm. She was aged 71.

[[Mohamed Fahmy]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Canadian journalists, People from Cairo

Mohamed Fahmy (محمد فاضل فهمى) is a Canadian-Egyptian journalist. He was born in Cairo. Fahmy was in prison in Egypt for two years. When he came out, he started the Fahmy Foundation for free speech.

[[Jürgen Klopp]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, German football managers, German footballers, German Protestants, Sportspeople from Stuttgart

Jürgen Norbert Klopp (born 16 June 1967) is a German professional football manager and former player. He is the current manager of Premier League club Liverpool. He also managed and played for 1. FSV Mainz 05, and later managed Borussia Dortmund from 2008 to 2015. Klopp is responsible for revolutionising Liverpool FC, and won their 6th Champions League and first Premier League.

Klopp was born in Stuttgart, Baden-Württemberg. He is married and has two children. He is a Protestant Christian.

[[Eddy Wally]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Belgian singers, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Disease-related deaths in Belgium, People from East Flanders

Eddy Wally (born Eduard René Van De Walle; 12 July 1932 – 6 February 2016) was a Belgian singer. He was nicknamed the "Voice of Europe". He was best known for his hits "Chérie" (1966), "Als marktkramer ben ik geboren" (1969) and "Ik spring uit een vliegmachien" (1996). He was also a popular meme in 2014.

Wally was born in Zelzate, East Flanders. He was married to Mariëtte Roegiers until her death in October 2012. They had a daughter, Marina Wally (born 1957), who became a singer. He retired in 2012 after poor health.

Wally died from a brain haemorrhage on 6 February 2016 in Zelzate. He was aged 83.

[[Mika Waltari]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1979 deaths, Finnish people, Journalists, Novelists, People from Helsinki

Mika Toimi Waltari (Fi-Mika_Waltari.ogg) (19 September 1908 – 26 August 1979) was a Finnish writer. He is best known for his best-selling novel The Egyptian (Sinuhe egyptiläinen). His career lasted over 40 years. He wrote at least 29 novels, 15 novellas, 6 collections of stories or fairy tales, 6 collections of poetry and 26 plays. Waltari wrote screenplays, radio plays, non-fiction, translations, and hundreds of reviews and articles. He is also internationally the best-known Finnish writer. His works have been translated into more than 30 languages.

[[River Avon, Bristol]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Avon runs through Bristol. The river is the 19th longest river in the United Kingdom. It is 75 miles (121km) long. The source of the river is in the Severn Estuary. The river rises in the county of Gloucestershire. It then flows through Wiltshire, for example in the city of Salisbury.

[[Sam Spence]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, American composers

Samuel Lloyd "Sam" Spence (March 29, 1927 – February 6, 2016) was an American soundtrack composer. He was best known for his work with NFL Films. His work has also been on the Madden NFL football video games and various advertisements related to American football.

[[2016 southern Taiwan earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 disasters in Asia, 2016 earthquakes, 2010s earthquakes in Asia, 2010s in Taiwan, Earthquakes in Taiwan, February 2016 events

The 2016 southern Taiwan earthquake happened in Taiwan on 6 February 2016. 116 people were killed. The source of the earthquake was in Kaohsiung.

[[Magic Kingdom for Sale–SOLD!]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy books, 1986 books

Magic Kingdom for Sale–Sold! is the first book in a series written by Terry Brooks. It is the story of a trial lawyer named Ben Holiday who gets a catalog from Rosen's, LTD. that is selling a fantasy kingdom named Landover. He buys the kingdom but learns that it is more challenging than he thought it would be.

[[Bamberg State Library]]

CATEGORIES: 1803 establishments, Buildings and structures in Bamberg, Libraries in Germany, 1800s establishments in Germany

The Bamberg State Library  (Staatsbibliothek Bamberg) is a library in Bamberg, Germany. The library was founded in 1803. It is operated by Bavaria, a state of Germany.

[[CentraleSupélec]]

CATEGORIES: Technical colleges and universities in Paris, 2015 establishments in France

CentraleSupélec is a graduate school of engineering in France. Its main campus is located at the Paris-Saclay plateau, and is one of the constituent institutes of the University of Paris-Saclay.

Its different curricula lead to the following French & European degrees :

The academic and research programs, including industrial research collaborations, are mainly offered in French in English.

Most of the 5000 students in the Graduate Engineer program at CentraleSupélec live in dedicated student residences near the research labs and metro train station. Some of the campus facilities are shared with 65,000 students from other constituent schools of the University of Paris-Saclay.

[[2016 United Kingdom European Union membership referendum]]

CATEGORIES: Brexit, 2016 in the United Kingdom, June 2016 events, Voting systems

The United Kingdom European Union membership referendum took place on 23 June 2016 in the UK and Gibraltar. It was to decide whether the United Kingdom would stay in the European Union (EU).

The referendum ended with 51.9% of votes in favour of leaving the EU.

On 24 June, the then Conservative Party leader and Prime Minister David Cameron announced that he would resign. He was replaced on 13 July by Theresa May.

[[The Black Unicorn]]

CATEGORIES: Fantasy books, 1987 books

The Black Unicorn is a fantasy book written by Terry Brooks. It is the second book in the Magic Kingdom of Landover series. The book continues the stories of Ben Holiday, Willow, and Questor Thews. Each of them had a dream about something important to them. They each left Sterling Silver (the castle they live in) to look for what they dreamed about. The dreams led Ben Holiday to Chicago, Questor Thews to find the books of magic, and Willow to hunt for the black unicorn.

[[Ciriaco Cañete]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Filipino sportspeople, Martial artists

Ciriaco "Cacoy" Cañete (August 8, 1919 – February 5, 2016) was a Filipino martial artist. He was a member of the Doce Pares Eskrima Club. He was the last surviving member of the club, which was founded in January 1932. In 1951 he developed his own martial art system named Eskrido. He was born in San Fernando, Cebu.

Cañete died in a hospital in Downtown Cebu City on February 5, 2016. He died from prostate cancer. He was aged 96.

[[Dan Hicks (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2016 deaths, American bandleaders, American bluegrass musicians, American country musicians, American folk musicians, American pop musicians, American pop singers, American singer-songwriters, Cancer deaths in California, Deaths from liver cancer, Deaths from throat cancer, Musicians from Arkansas, People from Little Rock, Arkansas, Singers from Arkansas

Daniel Ivan Hicks (December 9, 1941 – February 6, 2016) was an American singer-songwriter and musician. He made music with elements of cowboy folk, jazz, country, swing, bluegrass, pop and gypsy. He led the band Dan Hicks and His Hot Licks. His career began in 1965.

He was best known for the songs "I Scare Myself" and "Canned Music."  His songs were known for having humor. One of his songs was titled "How Can I Miss You When You Won't Go Away?" His latest album, Live at Davies, was released in 2013.

Hicks died on February 6, 2016 from throat and liver cancer. He died in Mill Valley, California. He was 74 years old. He was diagnosed with throat cancer in 2014 and had liver cancer since 2015.

[[Fife Symington]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Governors of Arizona, Politicians from New York City, Businesspeople from New York City, US Republican Party politicians

John Fife Symington III (born August 12, 1945) is an American politician and businessman. He was born in New York City. He served as the 19th Governor of the U.S. state of Arizona. He served from 1991 until his resignation in 1997. He was a member of the Republican Party.

[[Alvin Baldus]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2017 deaths, Politicians from Iowa, Politicians from Minnesota, United States representatives from Wisconsin, US Democratic Party politicians

Alvin James Baldus (April 27, 1926 – February 2, 2017) was an American politician. He was member of the Democratic Party. He served in the United States House of Representatives from 1975 to 1981, as a member for Wisconsin. He lost his re-election in 1980.

Baldus was born in Garner, Iowa. He grew up in Elkton and Austin in Minnesota. He studied at Riverland Community College. Baldus died on February 2, 2017 in Menomonie, Wisconsin, aged 90.

[[USS Nitze (DDG-94)]]

CATEGORIES: Naval ships of the United States

The USS ''Nitze'' (DDG 94) is an Arleigh Burke class destroyer. It is owned by the United States Navy. The ship was built at Bath Iron Works in Maine. It was finished in 2004. The ship was commissioned on March 5, 2005 after almost a year of testing at sea.

The USS Nitze has done four deployments. The deployments were January 2007 (part of the USS Bataan strike group), September 2008 (part of the USS Theodore Roosevelt strike group), March 2012 (part of the USS Enterprise strike group), and November 2013 (deployed alone).

As of February 2016, the Nitze's Commanding Officer was CDR Paul Kaylor, the Executive Officer was CDR Michael Cloud, and the Command Master Chief was Sean Brown.

[[Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution]]

CATEGORIES: United States Bill of Rights, Amendments to the United States Constitution

Created on December 15, 1791, the Sixth Amendment (Amendment VI) to the United States Constitution is a part of the United States Bill of Rights. It provides many protections and rights to those accused of a crime. Among the provisions are the right to a lawyer, the right to a speedy public trial and the right to an impartial jury. It gives defendants the right to know who his (or her) accusers are. It also give the defendant the right to know the charges and evidence against him. 

[[Trier of fact]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Law

In a criminal trial the trier of fact, also called the finder of fact, is the person or persons responsible for deciding the factual issues. This is also called a finding of fact. In a jury trial the trier of fact is the jury. If there is no jury, the trier of fact is the judge. In many types of hearings the trier of fact may be an administrative law judge, a board, commission, or referee. Trier of fact is now considered an older term. The term "finder of fact" has come into use more recently. Once the trier of fact determines what is assumed to be the truth of a matter, then legal rules are applied to those facts. A judge instructs a jury about the legal rules applying to the case. These instructions include what the findings may be. For example the jury may find for the plantiff or the jury may find for the defendant.  

[[Joel Anthony]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Boston Celtics players, Canadian basketball players, Detroit Pistons players, Living people, Miami Heat players, Sportspeople from Montreal, People from Westmount, Quebec

Joel Vincent Anthony (born August 9, 1982) is a Canadian professional basketball player. He is a former center of the Detroit Pistons and Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He also plays for the Canadian national basketball team.

[[Dalian]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in China

Dalian (大连) is an important port city in the Liaoning province of China. It is located on the Liaodong Peninsula. It is the northernmost warm water port in China as well as the southernmost city in Northeast China. The name of the city translates into "Great Link", due to its strategic location on the coast of the East China Sea since it is used for trade with countries like Russia, the North and South Korea, and Japan. Because the port can be used all year, the Russian Empire took control of it in 1898 and built the Trans-Siberian railway to Dailan. The Empire of Japan later took it away from Russia.

[[Magdalena River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Colombia

The Magdalena River is the most important river in the western part of Colombia. It has a length of 1538. Its course is from south to north. About 80 percent of the population of Colombia live on the banks of the river or one of its tributaries. Barranquilla, Colombia's biggest city, lies on the banks of the river.

The river is navigable up to the city of Honda, about 1000 upstream. At Honda, there are rapids. After these rapids, the river is navigable for another 240.

[[Trey Lyles]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Canadian basketball players, Living people, People from Saskatoon, Sportspeople from Saskatchewan, Utah Jazz players

Trey Anthony Lyles (born November 5, 1995) is a Canadian-American professional basketball player. He is a power forward/small forward for the Utah Jazz of the National Basketball Association (NBA).

[[Sturla Gunnarsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Canadian movie directors, Canadian television directors, Canadian television producers, People from Reykjavík, People from Vancouver, Emmy Award winners

Sturla Gunnarsson (born August 30, 1951) is a Canadian movie director and producer.

Gunnarsson was born in Reykjavík, Iceland in 1951. He moved to Vancouver, British Columbia, with his parents when he was seven years old. His movie After the Axe, received an Academy Award nomination for Best Documentary Feature.  He has since won a number of awards including Emmy Award, Genie Award and Gemini Awards.

[[Exposure (toxicology)]]

CATEGORIES: Toxicology

Toxic exposure means that a toxin (poison) touched or got into a person's body.  That person has been exposed to the toxin.

After a person is exposed to a toxin, many different things about that person, the toxin, and the exposure affect toxicity.  Toxicity is how the person reacts to the toxin, including what symptoms they may have.

A person can get exposed to a toxin accidentally or on purpose.  People can also use toxins as weapons to try to kill other people (for example, during chemical or biological warfare).

[[Combatant]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

A combatant is a person who fights in an armed conflict. Combatants are protected by parts of the Geneva Convention as long as they obey the rules of war.

[[Stromule]]

CATEGORIES: Organelles, Plant physiology

A stromule is a microscopic structure found in plant cells. Stromules (stroma-filled tubules) are highly dynamic structures extending from the surface of all plastids, including chloroplasts.   

Protrusions from and interconnections between plastids were seen in 1888  and 1908, and have been described from time to time in the literature since then.  

Stromules were recently rediscovered in 1997. They exist in a number of angiosperm species including Arabidopsis thaliana, wheat, rice and tomato, but their role is not yet fully understood.

[[Coffin ship]]

CATEGORIES: History of Ireland, History of Canada, 19th century in the United States, Ships

Coffin ships transported Irish immigrants to America and other colonies during the Great Irish Famine (1845-1852). They were the cheapest way to cross the Atlantic but it was a miserable and dangerous journey. The conditions on board were horrible because the ships were so crowded. Also, there was little food and water. There were often diseases on board. 

One third (30%) of the passengers died before the arrival in Canada or the USA. Legend says sharks liked to follow coffin ships because the crew threw the dead bodies overboard.

[[Marcos Milinkovic]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, 1996 Summer Olympics, 2000 Summer Olympics, 2004 Summer Olympics, Olympians, Argentine volleyball players

Marcos Antonio Milinković (born December 22, 1971 in Villa Ballester, Buenos Aires) is an Argentine volleyball player. Milinković is 203 cm and weighs 100 kg. He competed in the 1996, 2000 and 2004 Summer Olympics.

[[Lauren Collins]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Actors from Ontario, Canadian child actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors

Lauren Felice Collins (born August 29, 1986) is a Canadian actress. She acts in both movies and television. She started acting in 1998. Between 2001 and 2008, she played Paige Michalchuk on Degrassi: The Next Generation. She played a Host in 1 Girl 5 Gays. In 2002, she won a Young Artist Award for her performance in Degrassi: The Next Generation.

Collins was born in the Thornhill area of the Greater Toronto Area, Ontario. 

[[Roger Willemsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, German television presenters, People from Bonn, Writers from North Rhine-Westphalia

Roger Willemsen (15 August 1955 – 7 February 2016) was a German author, essayist and television presenter. He was born in Bonn, North-Rhine Westphalia. He began his career in 1991. In 1994, he starred in his own show Willemsens Woche. He interviewed many famous people such as Madonna, Jesse Jackson, Audrey Hepburn and Yasser Arafat. He retired in 2006.

Willemsen died of pancreatic cancer on 7 February 2016 in Wentorf bei Hamburg, Schleswig-Holstein. He was aged 60.

[[Bill Birchfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American lawyers, Politicians from Florida, US Democratic Party politicians

William O. Birchfield (December 19, 1935 – February 5, 2016) was an American politician, lawyer, and civic leader in the state of Florida. He called himself as the "Duke of Mayo". He was born in Mayo, Florida. He served in the Florida House of Representatives for the 21st district from 1971 until his resignation in 1974.

Birchfield died in Jacksonville, Florida on February 5, 2016. He died from a heart attack. He was aged 80.

[[Nida Fazli]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2014 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian poets, Urdu poets

Muqtida Hasan Nida Fazli, known as Nida Fazli (ندا فاضلی‎; 12 October 1938 – 8 February 2016), was an Indian Hindi and Urdu poet. He was born in Gwalior, British Raj. He wrote essays critical of poets of the 1960s in his book Mulaqatein. This book made many poets angry, including Sahir Ludhianvi, Ali Sardar Jafri and Kaifi Azmi. As a result, he was boycotted in some poetic sessions. He recently wrote columns for the BBC Hindi website on various contemporary issues and literature.

Fazli died of a heart attack in Mumbai on 8 February 2016. He was aged 77.

[[Sushil Koirala]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, People with cancer, Prime Ministers of Nepal, People from Biratnagar

Sushil Koirala (सुशील कोइराला; 12 August 1939 – 9 February 2016) was a Nepalese politician. He was the Prime Minister of Nepal from 11 February 2014 to 10 October 2015. He was also President of the Nepali Congress party beginning in 2010.

Koirala was elected as Prime Minister of Nepal by the parliament on 10 February 2014.  Koirala joined the Nepali Congress in 1952 and served in various roles before becoming its president in 2010.

Koirala was diagnosed with oral cancer in 2006 and lung cancer in July 2014. He died on 9 February 2016 of pneumonia in Kathmandu. He was aged 76.

[[Roy Rogers (basketball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, African-American basketball players, Boston Celtics players, Denver Nuggets players, Living people, Sportspeople from Alabama, Toronto Raptors players, Vancouver Grizzlies players, American basketball players

Roy Lee Rogers, Jr. (born August 19, 1973) is an American retired professional basketball player. He played in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played a total of 137 games in the NBA from 1996 until 2000. He played for the Vancouver Grizzlies, Boston Celtics, Toronto Raptors, and the Denver Nuggets. After retiring, Rogers became an assistant coach. He currently serves as an assistant coach for the Washington Wizards of the NBA.

[[Suba language]]

CATEGORIES: Niger-Congo languages, Languages of Africa

Suba is a language spoken by the Suba people of east Africa. It is almost extinct. It is a Bantu language believed to have developed from the interactions between the Luo and the Bantu speakers of Lusoga. These Lusoga migrated from the Baganda kingdom because of a conflict between tribes.

[[Robin Chandler Duke]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, American activists, American diplomats, American journalists, American socialites, Disease-related deaths in South Carolina, Writers from Baltimore, Maryland

Robin Chandler Duke (born Grace Esther Tippett; October 13, 1923 – February 6, 2016) was an American socialite, journalist, women's rights advocate and diplomat. She served as the United States Ambassador to Norway from September 12, 2000 until March 1, 2001.

Duke was born in Baltimore, Maryland. She was married to actor Jeffrey Lynn and later diplomat Angier Biddle Duke until his death in 1995. She had three children.

Duke died on February 6, 2016 in Charleston, South Carolina. She was aged 92.

[[Problem solving]]

CATEGORIES: Problem solving

Problem solving is a mental activity related to intelligence and thinking. It consists of finding solutions to problems. A problem is a situation that needs to be changed. It suggests that the solution is not totally obvious, for then it would not be a problem. A great deal of human life is spent solving problems. Social life is based on the notion that together we might solve problems which we could not as individuals. 

The word "problem" comes from a Greek word meaning an "obstacle" (something that is in your way). If someone has a problem, they have to find a way of solving the problem. The way to solve it is called a solution. Some problem-solving techniques have been developed and used in artificial intelligence, computer science, engineering, and mathematics. Some are related to mental problem-solving techniques studied in gestalt psychology, cognitive psychology. and chess.

Problems can be classified as ill-defined or well-defined.  Ill-defined problems are those that do not have clear goals, solution paths, or expected solution. An example is how to face threats which might perhaps be made in the future. Well-defined problems have specific goals, clearly defined solution paths, and clear expected solutions. These problems also allow for more initial planning than ill-defined problems. 

Being able to solve problems involves the ability to understand what the goal of the problem is and what rules could be applied to solving the problem. Sometimes the problem requires abstract thinking and coming up with a creative solution. 

[[Internet safety]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Safety

Internet safety is the topic of teaching people how to be safe when using the internet. It is particularly important when using social media, through which personal information is shared.

Internet safety is mainly taught in primary and secondary schools and focuses on making sure children know that:

Choose a strong password with different characters and numbers.

There are more another ways to secure your devices when surfing through Internet ,You can use a VPN (Virtual Private Network) they are usually more secure then simple , also they help to unlock many websites which are blocked by your service provider , It is usually recommended to use a Paid service rather than using free service. And an Anti-virus must  have to be in your device if you want a secure surfing.

[[Onan]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament people, Ancient Israeli people

Onan (אוֹנָן, Modern Onan, Tiberian ʼÔnān ; "Strong") is a person in the Bible. He is in the Book of Genesis, chapter 38. He was the second son of Judah. Like his older brother, Er, Onan was killed by Yahweh. Onan's death was because he was "evil in the sight of the Lord" for being unwilling to father a child by his widowed sister-in-law.

[[Bad Aibling rail accident]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 disasters, 2016 in Germany, Disasters in Germany, February 2016 events, History of Bavaria, Railway accidents in Europe

The Bad Aibling rail accident was an accident that happened on the railway line in Bad Aibling in Bavaria, Germany, on 9 February 2016. Twelve people were killed and many more injured when two trains collided head-on, along a single-track line.

[[Bren light machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Light machine guns

The Bren is a light machine gun (LMG) that was used by the British military during World War II. The gun was based on a Czechoslovak gun, the ZB z/26. The name is a shortening of "Brno-Enfield". Brno was the city where the earlier z/26 was made, and Enfield was the company that made the Bren.

It was a simple but well-made LMG. It was well-known for using a curved, top-loading magazine, a carrying handle, and being light enough for one man to carry and use. It was so popular that even the Japanese made their own LMG based on the Bren, the Type-99 light machine gun.

It was so popular among British soldiers that it was used by the British Armed Forces from 1938 to the 1990s.

[[Big Kap]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 deaths, 1970 births, American DJs, Musicians from New York

Big Kap (1970–2016) was a DJ. He was born in New York City. He is well known for his album The Tunnel with DJ Funkmaster Flex, which was released in 1999. He died due to a heart attack on February 3, 2016 in New York. He was aged 45 at the time of his death.

[[Black Mountain (Kentucky)]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of the United States, Kentucky

Black Mountain is a mountain in Kentucky. It is the highest mountain peak in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, USA. The height of the summit is 4145. It is near the Virginia border. Black bears live on the mountain.

[[Spring Awakening (festival)]]

CATEGORIES: Chicago, Illinois, Music festivals in the United States, Illinois, 2012 establishments in the United States, 2010s establishments in Illinois

The Spring Awakening Music Festival is an elecronic music festival that has been held at Soldier Field in Chicago, Illinois since 2012. Its music is, mostly, within the genres of  Progressive house, Electro house, Techno, and Dubstep. The Main Stage of the Festival is located on the heart of the sports field itself. Two smaller stages are around the outside of the stadium. This setup makes for very loud sound that is heard all around the festival. The festival usually takes place in June. In 2015, the festival had an age limit  (18+) for theifirst time.

[[John Holt (educator)]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1985 deaths, American educators, People from New York City

John Caldwell Holt was an American educator and author. He supported homeschooling and unschooling.

[[Fahmy Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, Human rights organizations, Imprisonment and detention, Canada

The Fahmy Foundation for free press is a non-profit organization based in Canada. It works for freedom of the press and tries to help journalists who are in prison. 

[[Sara al-Drees]]

CATEGORIES: Kuwaiti people, Teachers, Living people, 1987 births

Sara al-Drees (سارة الدريس) or Sara Abd al-Wehab al-Drees (سارة عبد الوهاب الدريس) is a Kuwaiti teacher.  She is Kuwait's first political detainee.  

[[Custer County]]

Custer County is the name of six counties in the United States:

[[William Katt]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors

William Theodore Katt (born February 16, 1951) is an American actor and voice actor. He is best known for playing Ralph Hinkley in The Greatest American Hero. 

Katt was born to Bill Williams and Barbara Hale in Los Angeles.

[[The Greatest American Hero]]

CATEGORIES: American comedy-drama television series, 1981 television series debuts, English-language television programs

The Greatest American Hero is an American comedy-drama television series. It was shown for three seasons from 1981 to 1983 on ABC. It was created by producer Stephen J. Cannell. It premiered as a two-hour television pilot on March 18, 1981. The series features William Katt as teacher Ralph Hinkley. It also starred Robert Culp as FBI agent Bill Maxwell, and Connie Sellecca as lawyer Pam Davidson.

The series chronicles Ralph's adventures after a group of aliens gives him a red suit that gives him superhuman abilities. Unfortunately for Ralph he loses the instruction booklet, and thus has to learn how to use its powers by trial and error.

[[Planet Asia]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from California, American rap musicians from California, African American musicians, 1976 births, Living people, People from Fresno, California

Jason Green (better known as Planet Asia; born October 24, 1976) is an American rapper. He is known for being part of the hip hop duo Cali Agents. He is also well known for producing many mixtapes. He was with Interscope Records. However, he was not promoted like more popular Interscope rappers 50 Cent and Eminem.

He was nominated for a Grammy Award in 2002 for the song "W" by Mystic.

He was born Jason Green in Fresno, California.

[[List of massacres of Azerbaijanis]]

CATEGORIES: Anti-Azerbaijani sentiment, Discrimination, Massacres, History of Azerbaijan

The following is a list of massacres of Azerbaijanis that have occurred throughout history.

[[Codex]]

CATEGORIES: Writing media, Book terminology

A codex (plural codices) is a book-like object with writing on it. On a codex there are separate pages, whereas a scroll is one continuous long document. The term is used for book-type objects written by hand, and includes books written on vellum or parchment.

The codex transformed the shape of the book itself. As an objects, books can last for centuries, and many codices are in the great modern libraries. The codex was first described by the 1st-century AD Roman poet Martial, who praised it. The codex was as common as scrolls by about AD 300. It had completely replaced scrolls in the Greco-Roman world by the 6th century.

[[Chester-le-Street]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in County Durham

Chester-le-Street  is an ancient town in the northeast of England.  It is in County Durham. Where it stands was a Roman fort called Concangis. This is the 'Chester' (from the Latin castra) of the town's name. 'Street' refers to the paved Roman road that ran north-south through the town. It is now called Front Street (shown at right).

Chester-le-Street is 7 south of Newcastle upon Tyne and 8 west of Sunderland. It is on the River Wear.

[[Cumberland Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of the United States, Appalachian Mountains

The Cumberland Mountains are a mountain range in the southeastern part of the Appalachian Mountains. They run from  northern Tennessee to West Virginia. They include parts of western Virginia and eastern Kentucky. Their highest peak, with an elevation of 4223 above sea level, is High Knob near Norton, Virginia. According to the United States Geological Survey, the Cumberland Mountain range is 131 long and 20 wide. It is bounded by the Russell Fork on the northeast, the Pound River and Powell River on the southeast, Cove Creek on the southwest, and Tackett Creek, the Cumberland River, Poor Fork Cumberland River, and Elkhorn Creek on the northwest. It forms the part of the boundary between Kentucky and Virginia. The Cumberland Mountains were named for England's Duke of Cumberland. There are many limestone caves on the Virginia side.

[[Cumberland Gap]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms of the United States, Mountain passes, Appalachian Mountains

The Cumberland Gap is a narrow pass through the Cumberland Mountains. It is a part of the Appalachian Mountains. It is near the junction of the U.S. states of Kentucky, Virginia, and Tennessee. First used by Native Americans, it was famous during American colonial history as an important path through the lower Appalachians. In 1775 the trail was started by Daniel Boone. Over the next 35 years, over 300,000 Settlers used it to get to the western borders of Kentucky and Tennessee. It was an important part of the Wilderness Road. It is now part of the Cumberland Gap National Historical Park. 

[[Matricide]]

CATEGORIES: Murders

Matricide is the act of killing one's mother. In the case of teenage daughters, it is often for one of two reasons. Either the daughter "snapped" (suddenly lost her temper) after suffering abuse or became an abuser herself. Few studies have been done to discover why children commit parricide, matricide or patricide.

[[Vertical transmission]]

CATEGORIES: Infectious diseases

Vertical transmission (also called mother-to-child transmission, or MTCT) means that an infection is spread from a mother to her fetus during pregnancy or childbirth.  Vertically transmitted infections are usually caused by bacteria or viruses.

If the baby still has the infection after he or she is born, the infection may be called a congenital infection.

[[List of earthquakes in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Science-related lists, Earthquakes, History of Azerbaijan

This list of earthquakes in Azerbaijan, is a list of notable earthquakes that have affected areas within the current boundaries of Azerbaijan.

[[VX]]

CATEGORIES: Nerve agents

VX is a type of chemical weapon called a nerve agent.  It is a very toxic chemical.  Because it is so toxic, it cannot be used as anything other than a chemical weapon.  The United Nations classifies VX as a weapon of mass destruction.

VX is the most toxic nerve agent ever created.  The Council on Foreign Relations says: "A fraction of a drop of VX, absorbed through the skin, can fatally disrupt the nervous system."

The Chemical Weapons Convention of 1993, an international law, made it illegal for countries to use chemical weapons like VX.  It also made it illegal to make or keep more than 100 grams of VX.  It allows some scientists to make and use amounts under 100 grams only if they are trying to create an antidote, or doing medical research.

[[Central Zazaki]]

CATEGORIES: Zazaki, Iranian languages

Central Zazaki (in Zaza language: Zazakiyê Merkezi or Zazakiyê Miyani; means Middle Zazaki) is one of three main dialects of the Zazaki language. This is spoken by the Zaza people in central parts of Eastern Anatolia Region of Turkey. Central Zazaki is spoken by over 1 million people in the eastern cities of Turkey, such as Elazığ, north of Diyarbakır, west of Bingöl and east of Malatya.

[[Mawlid of the Nebi]]

CATEGORIES: Zazaki, 1890s books, 1899

Mawlif of the Nebi (in Zazaki language: Mewlıdê Nebi, or in modern Zazaki, Biyayışê Peyğamberi) is the first book written in the Zazaki language. It was written by Ahmed el-Hasi in Diyarbakır in 1899 and was published on March 25, 1899. The book is a religious book and includes stories about the birth of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The title of the book means "Birth of the Prophet".

It was originally written in the Ottoman Turkish alphabet, which uses the Arabic script. Zazaki turned to using the Latin script in 1928 and the Mawlid was rewritten in this writing system, using the Zazaki alphabet.

[[Me and My Gang]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Country albums

Me and My Gang is the fourth studio album by American country music duo Rascal Flatts. The album was released on April 4, 2006, through Lyric Street Records. It debuted as No. 1 on Billboard 200. It held that position for three weeks. Me and My Gang had the highest sales of any album in 2006. RIAA certified it as five times platinum.

On April 25, 2007, Rascal Flatts performed "My Wish" on American Idol as part of fundraising for charities. The campaign was named Idol Gives Back.

[[Yucatan, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Callaway County, Missouri, Unincorporated communities in Missouri

Yucatan is an unincorporated community in Callaway County, Missouri, United States.

[[Portland, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Callaway County, Missouri, Unincorporated communities in Missouri

Portland is an unincorporated community in Callaway County, Missouri, United States. It is part of the Jefferson City, Missouri Metropolitan Statistical Area. It is located at 38 (38.710161,-91.717166) on Route 94 about twenty miles northeast of Jefferson City.

[[Toledo, Callaway County, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Missouri, Callaway County, Missouri

Toledo is an unincorporated community in Callaway County, in the U.S. state of Missouri.

[[Toledo, Ozark County, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Missouri

Toledo is an unincorporated community in Ozark County, in the U.S. state of Missouri.

[[Fulton]]

Fulton may refer to:

[[Songül Öden]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Turkish movie actors, Turkish television actors, Zaza

Songül Öden (born 1979 in Diyarbakır) is a Turkish actress. She is famous for her role as Gümüş Şadoğlu in Turkish series Gümüş. She graduated in theatre from the University of Ankara. She is an ethnic Zaza.

She is well-liked as an actress in the Middle East.

[[Fulton, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Callaway County, Missouri, Cities in Missouri, County seats in Missouri, 1825 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Missouri

Fulton is a town in Missouri, United States. It is the county seat of Callaway County. It is part of the Jefferson City, Missouri Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 12,790 in the 2010 census.

[[Callaway County, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Callaway County, Missouri, 1820 establishments in Missouri Territory

Callaway County is a county located in the U.S. state of Missouri. In the 2010 U.S. Census, the county's population was 44,332. Its county seat is Fulton. It is named for Captain James Callaway, grandson of Daniel Boone.

[[Kansas City metropolitan area]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas City, Missouri, Metropolitan areas of the United States

The Kansas City metropolitan area surrounds the city of Kansas City, Missouri. It includes 15 counties in both Missouri and Kansas. With a population of 2.34 million people, it is the second largest metropolitan area in Missouri behind Greater St. Louis. However, the Kansas city metropolitan area is currently showing a 3.1 percent growth rate. The St. Louis metropolitan area is only growing at a rate of .7 percent.

[[Choking agent]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical warfare

A choking agent, also called a pulmonary agent, is a type of chemical weapon.  Choking agents make fluid build up in the lungs, and can cause suffocation.

The most common examples of choking agents are chlorine and phosgene.  There are others, but they are not often used.

[[Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution]]

CATEGORIES: Probability distributions

In statistics the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution is a particular probability distribution named after James Clerk Maxwell and Ludwig Boltzmann. 

It was first defined and used in physics (in particular in statistical mechanics) for describing particle speeds in idealized gases. In an idealized gas the particles move freely inside a stationary container without interacting with one another, most of the time. Sometimes they collide and exchange energy and momentum with each other or with their thermal environment. Particle in this context refers to gaseous particles (atoms or molecules), and the system of particles is assumed to have reached thermodynamic equilibrium.

While the distribution was first derived by Maxwell in 1860 on heuristic grounds, Boltzmann later carried out significant investigations into the physical origins of this distribution.

A particle speed probability distribution indicates which speeds are more likely: a particle will have a speed selected randomly from the distribution, and is more likely to be within one range of speeds than another. The distribution depends on the temperature of the system and the mass of the particle.

The Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution applies to the classical ideal gas, which is an idealization of real gases. In real gases, there are various effects (e.g., van der Waals interactions, vortical flow, relativistic speed limits, and quantum exchange interactions) that can make their speed distribution different from the Maxwell–Boltzmann form. However, rarefied gases at ordinary temperatures behave very nearly like an ideal gas and the Maxwell speed distribution is an excellent approximation for such gases. For this reason, it forms the basis of the Kinetic theory of gases, which provides a simplified explanation of many fundamental gaseous properties, including pressure and diffusion.

[[Jessye Norman]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Deaths from sepsis, African-American singers, American opera singers, Grammy Award winners, People from Augusta, Georgia, Singers from Georgia (U.S. state)

Jessye Mae Norman (September 15, 1945 – September 30, 2019) was an American opera singer. She was a dramatic soprano. She often sung works by Richard Wagner. Norman was in the Georgia Music Hall of Fame. She won Grammy Awards. She received a Spingarn Medal. She also got a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award, and a National Medal of Arts.

In 1970, she performed in Italy for the first time. There she sang in Handel's Deborah. The following year, she performed at the Maggio Musicale for the first time. There she sang in L'Africaine. 

Norman was born in Augusta, Georgia. She died on September 30, 2019 at a Manhattan hospital from multiple organ failure and sepsis caused by a spinal cord injury at the age of 74.

[[The Perfumed Garden]]

CATEGORIES: Non-fiction books, Human sexuality

The Perfumed Garden of Sensual Delight (الروض العاطر في نزهة الخاطر ar) is a book that was written by Muḥammad ibn Muḥammad al-Nafzawi in the 15th century. It explains sex. It is written in Arabic. The Perfumed Garden is an example of erotic literature and contains sex among humans (heterosexual and homosexual) and animals.

The book was first translated into English by Richard Francis Burton in 1886. He translated it through a French translation. He could not complete his translation because the book was not widely acceptable because of its content. After him a new French translation by René R. Khawam was published in 1976. In 1923 the English composer Kaikhosru Shapurji Sorabji wrote Le jardin parfumé: Poem for Piano Solo.

[[Hértevin language]]

CATEGORIES: Turkey, Semitic languages

Hértevin language (in Hértevin: ܣܘܪܬ Sôreth) is an Aramaic or Syriac language that was originally spoken in a group of villages in the southeastern part of Turkey. It is especially in Siirt Province. Speakers of Hértevin Aramaic have moved mostly to Western countries, and are now scattered and isolated from one another. A few speakers remain in Turkey.

[[Abdul Hamid II]]

CATEGORIES: Sultans of the Ottoman Empire, 1842 births, 1918 deaths, People from Istanbul

Abdul Hamid II (21 September 1842 – 10 February 1918) was the 34th Sultan of the Ottoman Empire. He was the last sultan to have complete control over the Empire. He witnessed many revolutions and wars. Abdulhamid II ruled from 1876 to 1909, until he was deposed by a group of people calling themselves the "Young Turks". 

He modernized the Empire during his reign, by for example building many railways, schools and hospitals. He also seeked to unify the Muslims in the Empire under Pan-Islamism as opposed to others wanting to unify the Empire under Ottomanism.

Although the Empire was beginning to fall, he at least gave the Empire a lift in his reign. 

His reign ended as Young Turks revolted against him, effectively deposing him and putting their favored sultan, Mehmed V.

[[Brain death]]

CATEGORIES: Death, Diseases and disorders of the brain

Brain death means that the brain has stopped working. Brain death is permanent, and cannot be cured or reversed.  No treatment can help.  When a person is brain dead, there is no activity in any part of their brain. Every part of the brain is dead; no oxygen flows to the brain, and there is no electrical activity in any part of the brain.

The brain controls everything we need to do to stay alive. For example, it controls breathing, body temperature, heart rate, and many other important things. When a person is brain dead, their brain cannot control any of these things.  A brain-dead person cannot breathe on their own.  They will never be able to wake up or be aware of what is going on around them.

Sometimes, brain-dead people are kept alive with special machines and medications.  For example, doctors can put a tube down a person's throat and use a machine called a ventilator to pump oxygen into their lungs.  While these machines can keep the person's other organs alive for a while, they cannot help the brain get better.  Eventually, the person's other organs will stop working too.

[[Luis Guillermo Solís]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, People from San José, Costa Rica, Presidents of Costa Rica

Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera (born 25 April 1958) is a Costa Rican politician. He was the President of Costa Rica from 2014 to 2018.

[[Interrogation]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Imprisonment and detention, Intelligence agencies, Human communication

Interrogation (also called questioning) generally means formally or informally interviewing a person to gain needed information of some kind. Interrogations are used by military organizations, intelligence agencies and law enforcement agencies worldwide. Sometimes the interrogated person is suspected of committing a crime or thought to have a reason to hide the information. The questioner in criminal and military interrogations is often an officer trained in different interrogation techniques. Depending on how they view the person being questioned or the purpose of the interrogation, the methods used may vary widely. For example:

[[Trenton]]

Trenton may refer to:

[[Vargas]]

CATEGORIES: States of Venezuela

Vargas State (Estado Vargas, esˈtaðo ˈβarɣas) is one of the 23 states of Venezuela. It is named after Venezuela's first civilian president, José María Vargas. The state covers an area along the Caribbean coast in the north of Venezuela. It borders Aragua to the west and Miranda to the east. Caracas is to the south. Vargas contains the country's largest seaport and airport. The state's capital city is La Guaira.

The area was previously governed as part of Venezuela's Federal District. The governor was chosen by the federal government of Venezuela. In 1998 the government of Rafael Caldera made Vargas split Vargas from the Federal District. Shortly after this it became the 23rd state of Venezuela.

[[Akron]]

Akron may refer to:

[[Pat Fraley]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Actors from Seattle, Washington, American video game actors, American voice actors, Cornell University alumni

Patrick Howard "Pat" Fraley (born February 18, 1949) is an American voice actor and voice-over teacher. He is best known as the voice of Krang, Casey Jones, Baxter Stockman and many other characters. He is also known for his voice roles in the 1987 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles TV series. He also voiced Buzz Lightyear for actor Tim Allen in the early years in various video games, computer games, merchandise, attractions, and the Disney On Ice Disneyland Adventure.

[[Joplin]]

Joplin may refer to:

[[Church of God International (United States)]]

CATEGORIES: Christian denominations, Nontrinitarianism, International organizations, 1978 establishments in the United States

The Church of God, International (CGI) is a denomination of Christianity. It is one of many denominations to come out of the Worldwide Church of God (WCG). The Worldwide Church of God was started by Herbert W. Armstrong.

[[Cojedes]]

CATEGORIES: States of Venezuela

Cojedes State (Estado Cojedes) is one of the 23 states of Venezuela. The state capital city is San Carlos. Cojedes covers a total area of 14,800 km². It had a population of 323,165 in 2011.

[[Portuguesa]]

Portuguesa may refer to:

[[Johann Gottlieb Fichte]]

CATEGORIES: 1762 births, 1814 deaths, 18th century philosophers, 19th century philosophers, Deaths from typhus, Disease-related deaths in Berlin, German philosophers, Infectious disease deaths in Germany, People from Saxony

Johann Gottlieb Fichte (ˈ; ˈjoːhan ˈɡɔtliːp ˈfɪçtə; May 19, 1762 – January 27, 1814), was a German philosopher. He was one of the first philosophers of the movement known as German idealism. He died of typhus in Berlin.

[[Tom Ellis (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, British movie actors, British television actors, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Cardiff, People from Sheffield, Welsh movie actors, Welsh television actors

Thomas John Ellis (born 17 November 1978) is a British actor. He is known for playing Lucifer Morningstar in the Fox urban fantasy series Lucifer and its DC Universe crossover appearances. He has also played Gary Preston in the BBC One sitcom Miranda, William Rush in the USA Network series Rush and Mark Etches in the supernatural drama The Fades.

Ellis was born in Cardiff, Wales. He has an English background. His ancestry traces back to the county of Devon. He grew up in England. Ellis went to school in Sheffield.

Ellis was married English actress Tamzin Outhwaite from 2006 until their divorce in 2014. He married American screenwriter Meaghan Oppenheimer in 2019. He has three children.

[[Benchmark]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

A benchmark is a standard, or set of standards, that a product can have to show a level of quality. It can also be a test that a person makes a product like a computer do to see how good it can do a task, or set of tasks. Some computer benchmarks are to test the CPU or the GPU. People use benchmarks to see if their computer can run some kinds of software or games. People also use benchmarks to see if one piece of hardware is better than another.

[[Anti-Federalism]]

CATEGORIES: United States Bill of Rights, United States Constitution, 18th century in the United States

Anti-Federalism refers to a diverse group of Americans who opposed the ratification of the 1787 United States Constitution. Anti-Federalists believed a strong central government could become corrupt and tyrannical, as they believed England had become. They wanted a weak central government just as they had with the Articles of Confederation. One of the many points that the Anti-Federalists disagreed with the Federalists was that the Constitution did not have a Bill of Rights. Federalists argued the Constitution did not need a Bill of Rights, but agreed finally to add several amendments to the Constitution. The House of Representatives approved 17 amendments. The Senate passed on 12 of these for ratification by the states. Of the 12, 10 were ratified by the 13 states, becoming known as the United States Bill of Rights. Virginia was the last to ratify the amendments on December 15, 1791.

Under the new government, many Anti-Federalists created the Democratic-Republican Party.

[[Lateral root]]

CATEGORIES: Plant anatomy

Lateral roots are plant roots that extend horizontally from the main root (radicle). They serve to anchor the plant securely to the soil. The branching of roots helps water uptake. With the water comes nutrients required for the growth and development of the plant.

[[Kevin Randleman]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2016 deaths, African-American wrestlers, American mixed martial artists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in San Diego County, Infectious disease deaths in California, Sportspeople from Columbus, Ohio

Kevin Christopher Randleman (August 10, 1971 – February 11, 2016) was an American mixed martial arts fighter and wrestler. He was a UFC Heavyweight Champion from 1999 to 2000. He fought professionally from 1996 until 2011, winning 17 out of his 33 fights.

Randleman was born in Sandusky, Ohio. He was married twice and had three children.

Randleman died from heart failure caused by pneumonia on February 11, 2016 in San Diego, California. He was 44.

[[Mabel Matiz]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish singers, Living people, 1985 births

Mabel Matiz (born Fatih Karaca, August 31, 1985 in Mersin) is a Turkish singer, writer and dentist. He chose Mabel Matiz as stage name. Mabel is a character in the novel Kumral Ada Mavi Tuna. Matiz means drunk in old Greek language. He has released 3 studio albums. He studied dentistry at the University of Istanbul, and graduated in 2008. He briefly worked in a health care clinic until starting a music career. He is an LGBT supporter and LGBT rights activist.

[[Chris Isaak]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from California, American pop musicians, 1956 births, Living people, People from Stockton, California

Chris Isaak (born June 26, 1956) is an American rock musician and actor. He is known for his 1950s rock and roll style. His songs are usually about love, loss and heartbreak. His has been singing for four decades. He has had twelve studio albums.

In 1990, his song "Wicked Game" was released. It became a Top 10 hit in 1991.

Isaak was born in Stockton, California.

[[Nixa, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Christian County, Missouri

Nixa is a city in Christian County, Missouri, United States.  As of the 2010 census, the city population was 19,022.  It is part of the Springfield, Missouri metropolitan area.

[[Alpine chough]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri

The Alpine chough (Pyrrhocorax graculus) is a type of bird in the crow family. It is one of only two species in the genus Pyrrhocorax. It nests in the mountains. It can be found in Spain and Morocco eastwards through southern Europe to the Himalayas.

The golden eagle is a predator to the chough.

[[Kentucky Camp, Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Arizona, Ghost towns in the United States

Kentucky Camp is a ghost town in Arizona. It was a mining camp.

[[Rocky Road to Dublin]]

CATEGORIES: Folk music, 19th century songs, Irish culture

"Rocky Road to Dublin" is an Irish folk song. The song was made in the 19th century by the composer D. K. Gavan. It tells a story about a man who is going from his home in Tuam, Ireland to Liverpool, England. It is a hard song to play and needs a lot of practice.

[[Undertale]]

CATEGORIES: Role-playing video games, 2015 video games, Indie video games

Undertale (also written as UNDERTALE) is a role-playing video game made by Toby Fox, an independent artist.

In the game, players control a human child who has fallen into the Underground, a large and out-of-the-way place under a mountain, separated from the rest of the world by a magic wall called the Barrier. The player meets many kinds of monsters as they try to return to the surface, mainly through the fighting system; the player takes turns selecting actions and avoiding attacks made of many bullets, and can choose to befriend or subdue monsters so that they won't get killed. The player's choices change many things in the game, including how characters act, and what kind of story it is.

Fox developed almost the whole game by himself. He wrote the words and made the music by himself, and only used a few pieces of extra art given to him by other artists. The game was inspired by the Mother and Mario & Luigi role-playing series, the "bullet hell" shooter series Touhou Project, and the British comedy show Mr. Bean. Undertale was originally meant to be two hours long and released in mid-2014, but creating the game took over three years, making the story longer and not making the game available until much later.

The game was released on Steam for Microsoft Windows and OS X on September 15, 2015. When it was released, the game was praised for its writing, themes, easy-to-learn fighting system, music, and original ideas; with praise directed towards its story, dialogue, and characters. The game sold over a million copies, and was nominated for many honors and awards, including Game of the Year from many gaming news sources, winning others from conventions including South by Southwest.

[[Manuel Vicente]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, African politicians, Angolan people, 1956 births

Manuel Sesimbra Vicente (born 15 May 1956) is an Angolan politician. He has been Vice President of Angola since September 2012. He was born in Central Luanda.

Before becoming vice president, Vicente served as the chairman of Sonangol. Sonangol is an oil and natural gas company owned by the government of Angola.

[[Rank correlation]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

A rank correlation is any statistic that measures the relationship between rankings. A "ranking" is the assignment of "first", "second", "third", etc. to different observations of a variable. A rank correlation coefficient measures the degree of similarity between two rankings.

One might test for do colleges with a higher-ranked basketball program tend to have a higher-ranked football program? A quite important question is do people with higher-ranked education tend to get higher levels of income?

Some of the most used rank correlation statistics are

An increasing rank correlation coefficient implies increasing agreement between rankings. The coefficient is inside the interval −1, 1 and assumes the value:

[[Physical disability]]

CATEGORIES: Disability

A physical disability is a condition that limits the way the body works.  For example, a physical disability may limit the way a part of the body grows, moves, or does what it is supposed to do.  

[[Tachometer]]

CATEGORIES: Measuring tools

A tachometer is a sensor that measures the rotation speed of an object, for example a wheel or shaft. There are different methods to do so (for example, mechanical, optical, or magnetic). Most tachometers display the measurement in revolutions per minute.

[[Plain view doctrine]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, United States law

The plain view doctrine allows law enforcement officers to collect evidence or contraband found in plain view while they are lawfully present. It is an exception to items spelled out in a search warrant and to the Fourth Amendment protection against unreasonable searches and seizures. The doctrine is based on the United States Supreme Court decision Horton v. California. The court held that the Fourth Amendment does not prohibit warrantless seizures of any evidence which is in plain view.

[[Phil Gartside]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, English businesspeople

Philip Andrew Gartside (April 1952 – 10 February 2016) was an English businessman. He was born in Leigh, Lancashire. Gartside was chairman of Bolton Wanderers Football Club from 1999 through 2015.

Gartside died in Cheshire from cancer on 10 February 2016. He was aged 63.

[[André van den Heuvel]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Dutch movie actors, Dutch television actors, People from Venlo

André van den Heuvel (4 June 1927 – 9 February 2016) was a Dutch actor. He appeared in more than 55 movies and television shows between 1957 and 2008. He was born in Tegelen, Netherlands. He was known for his roles in Lifespan (1976), Rubens (1977), Dag Dokter! (1978) and in De rode zwaan (1999).

Van den Heuvel died in Amsterdam on 9 February 2016 from complications from a stroke. He was aged 88.

[[New York metropolitan area]]

CATEGORIES: New York City, Metropolitan areas of the United States

The New York metropolitan area is the city and suburbs of New York City. It includes Long Island and the Mid- and Lower Hudson Valley in the state of New York. It also includes north and central New Jersey, three counties in western Connecticut and five counties in northeastern Pennsylvania.

The New York metropolitan area is the most populous in the United States. This includes the numbers defined by both the Metropolitan Statistical Area (20.1 million residents) and the Combined Statistical Area (23.6 million residents). It is also one of the most populous built-up areas in the world, and the single largest in North America.

[[Warrant (law)]]

CATEGORIES: Documents, Legal terms

A warrant is a writ that permits someone to take a specific legal action. Most often the writ is from a judge. It is used by law enforcement to take actions such as searching for evidence, making an arrest or seizing property.

[[Prince William County, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Virginia counties

Prince William County is a county in Virginia. As of the 2010 census, the population was 402,002.

[[2015 Washington, D.C., mass murder]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 murders in the United States, 2010s in Washington, D.C., Arson, Mass murder in 2015, Mass murder in the United States, May 2015 events

The 2015 Washington, D.C., mass murder occurred on May 14, 2015. Three members of the Savopoulos family (Savvas, Amy, and their son, Philip) were murdered at their home in Washington, D.C.. Their housekeeper, Veralicia Figueroa, was also murdered. The victims were held hostage for nineteen hours, from May 13. Ten-year-old Philip was tortured in order to coerce $40,000 in cash from the family.

The killers restrained the victims with duct tape before killing them. They then set the house on fire. All the victims had been hit with something, and Philip was also stabbed.

[[Greater Mexico City]]

CATEGORIES: Mexico City, Metropolitan areas

Greater Mexico City refers to the conurbation around Mexico City. The official name is Mexico City Metropolitan Area (Área Metropolitana de la Ciudad de México). It is made up of the Federal District itself and 41 surrounding municipalities of the states of Mexico and Hidalgo.

[[Tizayuca]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico, Cities in Mexico, Hidalgo (state)

Tizayuca is a city and one of the 84 municipalities of Hidalgo, in central-eastern Mexico. It covers an area of 92.5 km².

As of 2005, the municipality had a total population of 56,573. 

[[La Paz (disambiguation)]]

La Paz is the administrative capital of Bolivia.

La Paz may also refer to:

[[La Paz Municipality, Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico (state)

La Paz is a municipality in the State of Mexico, Mexico. Its municipal seat is the town of Los Reyes Acaquilpan. It is located on the dividing line between Mexico State and the eastern edge of the Federal District and is part of the Greater Mexico City area. The area was part of a region called "Atlicpac" which in Nahuatl means 'above or at the edge of water.'  The current city's/municipality's glyph symbolizes water.

[[San Mateo Piñas]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Oaxaca, Settlements in Oaxaca

San Mateo Piñas is a town and municipality in Oaxaca, Mexico. The municipality covers an area of 211.8 km². 

It is part of the Pochutla District in the east of the Costa Region.

As of 2005, the municipality had a total population of 2,647.

[[San Mateo]]

San Mateo, Spanish for Saint Matthew, is the name for many places:

[[San Mateo Río Hondo]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Oaxaca, Settlements in Oaxaca

San Mateo Río Hondo is a town and municipality in Oaxaca, Mexico. It is part of the Miahuatlán District in the south of the Sierra Sur Region.

[[Charles C. Campbell]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American military people, People from Shreveport, Louisiana

Charles C. "Hondo" Campbell (1948 – February 8, 2016) was an American general. He was the 17th Commanding General in the United States Army Forces Command (FORSCOM). He previously served as FORSCOM’s Deputy Commanding General and Chief of Staff from April 26, 2006 to January 8, 2007. He assumed his Commanding General assignment January 9, 2007, and completed it June 3, 2010. He was born in Shreveport, Louisiana.

Campbell died in Shreveport on February 8, 2016, from a heart attack. He was aged 68.

[[Violette Verdy]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Ballerinas, Choreographers, Deaths from heart failure, Disease-related deaths in Indiana, French ballet dancers, French educators, French writers, People from Brittany

Violette Verdy (born Nelly Armande Guillerm; 1 December 1933 – 8 February 2016) was a French ballerina, choreographer, teacher, and writer. She worked as a dance company director in France and the United States. She was a Distinguished Professor of Music (Ballet) at the Jacobs School of Music at Indiana University, in Bloomington, Indiana. She was an artistic director of the Paris Opera Ballet and Boston Ballet, and the recipient of two medals from the French government. She was born in Pont-l'Abbé, France.

Verdy died in Bloomington, Indiana from heart failure on 8 February 2016. She was aged 82.

[[Kingdom of Mysore]]

CATEGORIES: 1399 establishments, 1950 disestablishments, Former monarchies of Asia, 14th century establishments in India, 1950s disestablishments in India

The kingdom of Mysore was a kingdom in southern India. It was founded by the Wadiyar dynasty in 1399. They ruled from 1399 to 1947. The last ruler was Tipu Sultan. At first they ruled as vassals of the Vijayanagara Empire from 1399 to 1565. From 1565 to 1761 they were independent rulers. From 1761 to 1796 they ruled in name only. The actual power was with Hyder Ali and his son Tipu Sultan. When Tipu Sultan died at the hands of the British, they ruled from 1799 to 1947 as British allies.

[[Brain injury]]

CATEGORIES: Disability, Diseases and disorders of the brain

Brain injury means that the brain has been hurt in some way.  Many different things can hurt the brain.  For example, brain injuries can happen before a baby is even born.  These are called congenital brain injuries.

A physical injury (trauma) can also hurt the brain (for example, if a person hits their head in a car accident).  These types of brain injuries are called traumatic brain injuries.

Many medical problems can also injure the brain.  For example, the brain can get injured if it does not get enough oxygen (for example, during a stroke).

All brain injuries are different.  Some are mild (not very bad); some are severe (very bad).  Some are temporary (they get better); some get better slowly over time; and some never get better.  Also, since the brain controls every part of the body, the symptoms of brain injury can be very different for different people.  This depends partly on what part of the brain was injured, and how badly.

[[H.264/MPEG-4 AVC]]

CATEGORIES: Standards, Television

H.264 or MPEG-4 Part 10, Advanced Video Coding is a way to code videos in order to make them smaller.

It can be used for both lossy compression and lossless compression, though it is usually used for lossy compression. H.264 is used in many places including Blu-Ray players, as well as videos streamed through sites like Youtube. It is also used in some TV broadcasts.

H.264 has a successor called HEVC.

[[Dominique D'Onofrio]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Italian footballers, Belgian footballers, Coaches

Dominique D'Onofrio (18 April 1953 – 12 February 2016) was an Italian-born Belgian footballer, coach and later chairman. He was born on in Castelforte, Italy. He played for R.R.F.C. Montegnée during the 1970s. He was the head coach of Standard de Liège for almost ten years.

D'Onofrio died on 12 February 2016 from a heart attack while on a trip in Buenos Aires. He was aged 62.

[[August P. Mardesich]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Politicians from California, Politicians from Washington, US Democratic Party politicians

August Paul "Augie" Mardesich (February 11, 1920 – February 8, 2016) was an American politician from the state of Washington. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He was born in San Pedro, California. Mardesich served as a member of the Washington House of Representatives from 1950 through 1963. He also served as a member of the Washington Senate from the 38th district from 1963 through 1978. 

Mardesich died in Mill Creek, Washington from dementia on February 8, 2016. He was aged 95.

[[Eliseo Prado]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Argentine footballers, People from Buenos Aires

Eliseo Prado (17 September 1929 – 10 February 2016) was an Argentine football forward. He played for Argentina in the 1958 FIFA World Cup. He also played for Club Atlético River Plate. He was born in Buenos Aires.

Prado died of complications from Alzheimer's disease in Buenos Aires on 10 February 2016. He was aged 86.

[[Honda (Colombia)]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colombia, 1539 establishments, 1530s establishments in the Spanish Empire

Honda is a city in the Tolima Department in  Colombia. In 2015, about 35,000 people lived there. The city was founded in 1539, and has city status since 1830. Together with Libano it is the seat of the Roman Catholic diocesese Libano-Honda.

[[Rithvik Dhanjani]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Indian television actors

Rithvik Dhanjani is an Indian television actor. He played Arjun Digvijay Kirloskar in Pavitra Rishta. He won the Indian dance reality show Nach Baliye 6 with his partner Asha Negi. In June 2012, Dhanjani  entered Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa 5 as Wild Card entry and came in third place. 

[[I Will Never Let You Down]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 songs, Calvin Harris, Dance-pop songs, R&B songs, Rita Ora songs

"I Will Never Let You Down" is a song by British recording artist Rita Ora. It was first planned as lead single for her upcoming second studio album. But it was later released as a buzz single. It was written and produced by Calvin Harris. The single was released on 31 March 2014.

The song debuted at number one on the UK Singles Chart making it Ora's fourth overall UK number-one single.

The music video features twin dancers Polly Duniam and Sophie Duniam.

[[Character encoding]]

CATEGORIES: Encodings

Given a number of characters of an alphabet,  a character encoding is a function that will map each character to a number. This number must be unique and is called code point. In this context, a character is the minimal unit of text that has a semantic value: In alphabets that use letters, this is usually a letter. Early systems, like the telegraph only have a part of all the letters possible. They have only uppercase letters, numbers, and a few extra characters (punctuation, spacing, newline..). The flag alphabet ships use is even more restricted.

[[The Elements of Style]]

CATEGORIES: Non-fiction books, 1920s books, Reference works

The Elements of Style is a American English how-to-do-it writing style guide. It lists brief guidelines for writing simple English. The book ran to many reprints. 

The original was composed by William Strunk Jr. in 1918, and was published by Harcourt in 1920. It had eight "elementary rules of usage", ten "elementary principles of composition", "a few matters of form", a list of 49 "words and expressions commonly misused", and a list of 57 "words often misspelled". 

E. B. White much enlarged and revised the book for publication by Macmillan, in 1959. That was the first edition of the so-called "Strunk & White", which Time called in 2011 "one of the 100 best and most influential books written in English since 1923".

The first printing of the 1959 edition sold about two million copies. In the following four decades, more than ten million copies of the three printings (1959 edition, 1972 edition, and 1988 edition) have been sold.

[[Amniotic sac]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the female reproductive system, Biological reproduction, Health

The amniotic sac  holds a fetus while it is developing during pregnancy.  The amniotic sac is filled with amniotic fluid, which protects the fetus.  

[[A record]]

CATEGORIES: Internet protocols

In the Domain Name System, an A record is something that changes a domain name into a 32-bit IP address (or IPv4 address). A domain can have many A records, for example, the domain example.com could have an A record for www.example.com that points to the IP 127.0.0.1, and another A record for mail.example.com that points to the IP 127.0.0.2.

[[AAAA record]]

CATEGORIES: Internet protocols

In the Domain Name System, an AAAA record is something that changes a domain name into a 128-bit IP address (or IPv6 address). A domain can have many AAAA records, for example, the domain example.com could have an AAAA record for www.example.com that points to the IP 2001:0db8:0000:0000:0000:0000:3257:9652, and another AAAA record for mail.example.com that points to the IP 2001:0db8:0000:0000:0000:0000:3257:9653.

[[Aizawl]]

CATEGORIES: Mizoram, Capital cities in India

Aizawl is the capital city of the state of Mizoram in India. It has a population of 293,416 according to the census of 2011. It is the largest city in the state. The population of Aizawl is mostly ethnic Mizo people. The people are mostly Christian.

Aizawl is located in the northern part of Mizoram. It is 1,132 metres (3715 ft) above sea level. In the summer the temperatures range from 20, and in the winter 11.

[[Mapp v. Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: United States Supreme Court cases

Mapp v. Ohio, 367 U.S. 643 (1961), was a landmark decision in criminal procedure. The United States Supreme Court ruled that evidence obtained in violation of the Fourth Amendment may not be used at trial in a state court.

[[O. N. V. Kurup]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Indian politicians, Indian poets, People from Kerala

Ottaplakkal Neelakandan Velu Kurup (27 May 1931 – 13 February 2016),  popularly known as O. N. V. Kurup or simply  O. N. V., was a Indian poet and lyricist. He won Jnanpith Award, the highest literary award in India in 2007. He was born in Chavara, Kollam.

Kurup wrote lyrics for music used in Malayalam cinema. He has written a lot of lyrics for dramas and television serials also. He received the awards Padma Shri in 1998 and Padma Vibhushan in 2011, the fourth and second highest civilian honours from the Government of India. In 2007 he was given an Honorary Doctorate by University of Kerala, Trivandrum. O. N. V. was known for his leftist political views. He was the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate in the Thiruvananthapuram constituency for the Lok Sabha elections in 1989.

Kurup died of respiratory failure on 13 February 2016 in Trivandrum, Kerala. He was aged 84.

[[Bořek Šípek]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Czech people, Architects, People from Prague

Bořek Šípek (14 June 1949 – 13 February 2016) was a known Czech architect and designer. He was born in Prague. Šípek was known for his individual, unusual, colorful and rich style. He experiments with unexpected and often weird shapes. Šípek has been called the father of "neo-baroque". His architectural works and other designs are known worldwide.

He was the architect of Prague Castle under the presidency of Václav Havel, and designed Havel's Place. Šípek was knight of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. He had three sons, one of them with Leona Machálková.

Šípek died on 13 February 2016 from cancer in Prague. He was aged 66.

[[Joachim Peiper]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 1976 deaths, Colonels, German murder victims, German prisoners, German war criminals, People from Berlin, SS officers, Unsolved murders, Waffen-SS people

Joachim Peiper, (30 January 1915 in Berlin – 14 July 1976 in Traves, Haute-Saône), also known as Jochen Peiper, was a military officer of Nazi Germany during World War II. 

He was a field officer of the Waffen-SS (he had the rank of SS-Standartenführer der Waffen-SS, comparable with the rank of colonel). He was personal adjutant to the commander of the Schutzstaffel (SS), Heinrich Himmler. He held this position between November 1940 and August 1941. Peiper fought on both the Eastern Front against the Red Army and the Western Front against the Western Allies. He won the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves and Swords for bravery on the battlefield and his leadership skills. By 1945, he was in command of a regiment of the Waffen-SS. He was the Waffen-SS's youngest regimental colonel.

Peiper was convicted of war crimes committed in Belgium. He was imprisoned for almost 12 years. He was also accused of war crimes in Italy. However, Italian and German courts decided that there was not enough evidence. After his release from prison, Peiper worked for both Porsche and Volkswagen. He then moved to France. In France he translated books from English to German under the pseudonym Rainer Buschmann. Peiper was murdered in France in July 1976. He was shot by unknown people who then burned his house to the ground using Molotov cocktails.

[[Mexico (disambiguation)]]

Mexico is a country in North America.

Mexico may also refer to:

[[MX record]]

CATEGORIES: Internet protocols

In the Domain Name System, an MX record is something that a domain uses to tell people and software the IP address of an email server. There can be more than one MX record for a domain. When there is more than one record, DNS uses a priority list that tells whatever is looking up the records to try the IP addresses in a certain order. For example, example.com might have a set of MX records that say for mail.example.com to try 127.0.0.5 first. If that try fails, another record will say to try 127.0.0.6. This behavior makes email more reliable.

[[Anti-lock braking system]]

CATEGORIES: Automotive technologies

An anti-lock braking system (ABS) is a safety system that prevents the wheels of a vehicle (for example car, motorcycle) from locking up when it is strongly braked. The goal is to keep the vehicle controllable, because a wheeled vehicle can only be safely steered when its wheels are not skidding.

[[The Milli Gazette]]

CATEGORIES: English-language newspapers published in India

Milli Gazette (MG) is an English-language newspaper in India. It is a compact newspaper. It describes itself as the leading English newspaper for Indian Muslims. Feature articles generally cover global news concerning Muslims, focusing especially on Indian Muslim issues. 

[[Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: United States Supreme Court justices

Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States are the members of the Supreme Court of the United States other than the Chief Justice of the United States. The number of Associate Justices is ruled by the United States Congress and is currently set at eight by the Judiciary Act of 1869.

[[Johnny Lattner]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in Illinois, Pittsburgh Steelers players, Sportspeople from Chicago, Heisman Trophy winners

John Joseph Lattner (October 24, 1932 – February 12, 2016) was an American football player.  While playing college football for the University of Notre Dame, he won the Heisman Trophy in 1953.  He also won the Maxwell Award twice, in 1952 and 1953.  Lattner played professionally for one season in the National Football League (NFL), with the Pittsburgh Steelers in 1954. He was born in Chicago, Illinois.

Lattner died in Oak Park, Illinois on February 12, 2016 from lung cancer. He was aged of 83.

[[Judicial interpretation]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, United States Constitution

Judicial interpretation is an explanation of how the judiciary interprets the law. In Common law, judicial interpretation is made up of guidelines that come from case law rather than from a legislature. These represent all previous judicial decisions. In constitutional law, there are different methods of judicial interpretation. These include:

[[Incorporation of the Bill of Rights]]

CATEGORIES: United States Constitution

The incorporation of the Bill of Rights (also called incorporation for short) is the process by which American courts have applied portions of the U.S. Bill of Rights to the states. This has been done through the Due Process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.  Before 1925, the Bill of Rights was held only to apply to the federal government. Under the incorporation doctrine, most provisions of the Bill of Rights now also apply to the state and local governments.

Prior to the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment and what became the incorporation doctrine, the Supreme Court in 1833 held in Barron v. Baltimore that the Bill of Rights applied only to the federal government, not the states. Even years after the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment, the Supreme Court in United States v. Cruikshank (1876) still held that the First and Second Amendment did not apply to state governments. However, beginning in the 1920s, a series of Supreme Court decisions interpreted the Fourteenth Amendment to "incorporate" most portions of the Bill of Rights, making these portions, for the first time, enforceable against the state governments. This process has been called selective incorporation.

[[2015 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A - Results of first round]]

CATEGORIES: Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, 2015 in association football

This is the Results of the first round of 2015 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A.

[[Sri Srinivasan]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Indian politicians, American judges, Politicians from Kansas, US Democratic Party politicians

Padmanabhan Srikanth "Sri" Srinivasan (born February 23, 1967) is an American jurist. He is the United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit since May 2013. 

He was confirmed by the United States Senate by a vote of 97–0 on May 23, 2013. Before being confirmed as a judge he was the Principal Deputy Solicitor General of the United States. He has argued 25 cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. He was also a lecturer at Harvard Law School.

Srinivasan also is known for having represented former Enron executive Jeffrey Skilling in his appeal before the U.S. Supreme Court, Skilling v. United States (2010).

[[John Danforth]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, United States senators from Missouri, United States Ambassadors to the United Nations, Politicians from St. Louis, Missouri, US Republican Party politicians

John Claggett Danforth (born September 5, 1936) is a retired American politician. He began his career in 1968 as the Attorney General of Missouri. He served three terms as a United States Senator from Missouri. He is considered a moderate and conciliator. He has been periodically called out of retirement by both of the major political parties to fill diplomatic roles. In 2004, he served briefly as United States Ambassador to the United Nations.

Danforth is an ordained Episcopal priest. He presided over the state funeral of Ronald (2004) and Nancy Reagan (2016).

[[Leo Ehlen]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from kidney disease, Dutch footballers, People from Sittard-Geleen, Sportspeople from Limburg (Netherlands)

Leo Ehlen (20 May 1953 – 10 February 2016) was a Dutch football player. He was born in Broeksittard, Limburg (Netherlands). He was a defender and defensive midfielder. Ehlen started his professional career with Fortuna SC and joined Roda JC in 1975. With Roda JC, he played alongside Dick Nanninga, Pierre Vermeulen and Theo de Jong. He was nicknamed the Neeskens of Roda after Johan Neeskens. Ehlen scored 6 goals in 233 official matches for the club. He left them after nine years for a short time with Belgian team Waterschei.

Ehlen died in Sittard, Netherlands on 10 February 2016 from kidney disease. He was aged 62.

[[Star City (comics)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional locations, DC Comics

Star City is a fictional city in DC Comics. It is the home of Queen Industries, owned by millionaire Oliver Queen. Queen is the Green Arrow, a trained archer. He protects this city.

[[YouTube Premium]]

CATEGORIES: YouTube

YouTube Premium, previously known as YouTube Red is a premium subscription service to YouTube. It allows users to watch videos without any advertisements and allows users to download videos to their mobile devices (but not desktop computers). It costs $11 USD per month as of April 2020, with a free trial that is given new users. 

[[United States presidential primary]]

CATEGORIES: United States presidential primary elections

In the United States, a presidential primary is a series of elections and caucuses within a political party. They are held to choose the party's candidate for the presidential election. This process was never included in the United States Constitution; it was created over time by the political parties. Some states hold only primary elections, some hold only caucuses, and others use a combination of both.

These primaries and caucuses are staggered generally between either late-January or early-February, and mid-June before the presidential election in November. The primary elections are run by state and local governments.

[[Latrobe, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pennsylvania, 1854 establishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in Pennsylvania

Latrobe l is a city in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania in the United States and part of the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. The city population was 8,338 as of the 2010 census (9,265 in 1990). Latrobe was incorporated as a borough in 1854, and as a city in 1999. The current Mayor is Rosemarie M. Wolford.

[[Viggo Rivad]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Danish people, Photographers

Viggo Reinholdt Rivad (3 July 1922 – 8 February 2016) was a Danish photographer. His career began in 1946, and he went on to win many competitions in the 1950s and 1960s. He was born in Nørrebro, Denmark.

Around 1960, he adopted his so-called "essay approach".February 2016 This resulted in a series of related photographs such as "Et farvel" (1962) and "Laurits" (1971). Rivad also earned a living as a taxi driver. He was a quiet, dedicated photographer, concentrating on disadvantaged areas and people on the edges of society. His humanitarian messages were a result of his anger and concern for society's outcasts.

Rivad died in Copenhagen, Denmark of complications from a stroke on 8 February 2016. He was 93 years old.

[[Trifon Ivanov]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Bulgarian footballers

Trifon Marinov Ivanov (Трифон Маринов Иванов; 27 July 1965 – 13 February 2016) was a Bulgarian international footballer. He played as a defender.

Ivanov played his first game for Bulgaria in 1988. He earned 76 caps and scored 6 goals over a ten-year international career. He played in the 1994 and 1998 FIFA World Cups, as well as the 1996 UEFA European Championship.

Ivanov died of a heart attack on 13 February 2016 in Samovodene, Bulgaria. He was aged 50.

[[Competition (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Biological competition, Evolutionary biology, Ecology

Competition is an interaction between organisms or species in which the fitness of one is lowered by the presence of another. According to evolutionary theory, this competition within and between species for resources plays a role in natural selection.

Competition occurs when  organisms or species need or use the same resources.  Common resources are food, water and territory.

Two species in competition often continue long-term in the same environment. This suggests they each have an "edge" which the other does not. In may cases being there first is a big edge. For example, plants consume nitrogen by absorbing it into their roots, making nitrogen unavailable to nearby plants. 

Species in competition may directly interfere with each other. An example of this can be seen between the ant Novomessor cockerelli and red harvester ants, where the first interferes with the ability of the second to forage. It does this by plugging the entrances to their rival's colonies with small rocks.

[[Ottoman Turkish language]]

CATEGORIES: Turkic languages, Ottoman Empire

Ottoman Turkish ˈ, or the Ottoman language (ota Lisân-ı Osmânî) (also known as ota Türkçe or ota Türkî, "Turkish"), is a type of Turkish language that was used in the Ottoman Empire between the 13th and 20th centuries. It was heavily influenced by Arabic and Persian. It was written in the Arabic and Persian alphabets. When the Ottoman Empire was at its most powerful, Arabic and Persian words made up to 88% of its vocabulary. Words of Arabic origins heavily outnumbered native Turkish words.

[[2015 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A - Results of second round]]

CATEGORIES: Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, 2015 in association football

This is the Results of the second round of 2015 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A.

[[Muriel Casals i Couturier]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, French economists, Spanish scientists, People from Barcelona

Muriel Casals i Couturier (April 6, 1945 – February 14, 2016) was a French-born Spanish economist. She was an emeritus professor in the Department of Economics and Historical Economics in the Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB). She was also vicedean of International Relations and Cooperation between 2002 and 2005.

She specialized in industrial reconversions, the history of economic thought and European economics. Casals was also the representative of the UAB in the Xarxa Vives d'Universitats (Live University Networks) between 2002 and 2009. She had been a visiting professor at the University of Edinburgh, the London School of Economics and the University of Wales at Bangor. She was born in Avignon, France to Spanish parents.

Couturier died on February 14, 2016 in Barcelona. She had been injured after being hit by a bicycle. She was aged 70.

[[Eric Lubbock, 4th Baron Avebury]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from leukemia, Cancer deaths in London, Politicians from London

Eric Reginald Lubbock, 4th Baron Avebury, PC (29 September 1928 – 14 February 2016) was an English politician.

He served as the Liberal Member of Parliament for Orpington from 1962 to 1970. He served in the House of Lords, having inherited the title of Baron Avebury in 1971. In 1999, when most hereditary peers were removed from the House of Lords, he was elected by his fellow Liberal Democrats to remain. When he died, he was the longest-serving Liberal Democrat peer.

Lubbock died on 14 February 2016 in London from leukemia. He was aged 87.

[[Liberal Party (UK)]]

CATEGORIES: Liberal Party (UK), Liberal parties, 1859 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1988 disestablishments in the United Kingdom

The Liberal Party was a liberal political party. It was one of the two big political parties in the United Kingdom in the 19th and early 20th century.

The party came from an alliance of Whigs and free-trade Peelites and radicals in the 1850s. In the next 50 years it formed four governments under William Gladstone. 

The party split over the issue of Irish Home Rule. It returned to power in 1906 with a landslide victory. They introduced the welfare reforms that created a basic British welfare state. 

H. H. Asquith was Liberal Prime Minister between 1908 and 1916. He was followed by David Lloyd George, whose premiership lasted until 1922. At that time the coalition the party had formed with the Conservative Party in World War I came to an end.

By the end of the 1920s, the Labour Party had replaced the Liberals as the Conservatives' main rival. The party went into decline. By the 1950s, it won no more than six seats at general elections.

Apart from notable by-election victories, the party's fortunes did not improve significantly until it formed the SDP-Liberal Alliance with the newly formed Social Democratic Party (SDP) in 1981. At the 1983 General Election, the Alliance won over a quarter of the vote, but only 23 of the 650 seats it contested. At the 1987 General Election, it won less than 23% of the vote.

The Liberal and Social Democratic parties merged in 1988 to form the Liberal Democrats. 

Prominent intellectuals associated with the Liberal Party include the philosopher John Stuart Mill, the economist John Maynard Keynes and social planner William Beveridge.

[[List of landmark court decisions in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: United States Supreme Court cases

The following is a partial list of landmark court decisions in the United States.  Landmark decisions establish a significant new legal precedent or concept. They can also substantially change the interpretation of existing law. Such a decision may settle the law in more than one way:

In the United States, landmark court decisions come most frequently from the Supreme Court. Sometimes United States courts of appeals make such decisions, particularly if the Supreme Court chooses not to review the case or if it adopts the holding of the lower court. Although many cases from state supreme courts are significant in developing the law of that state, only a few are so radically different that they announce standards that many other state courts then choose to follow.

[[Medea]]

CATEGORIES: People in Greek mythology

In Greek mythology, Medea (m; Μήδεια, Mēdeia, მედეა, Medea) is a sorceress of Greek mythology. She was the daughter of King Aeëtes of Colchis, niece of Circe, granddaughter of the sun god Helios. She married the hero Jason, and had two children with him, Mermeros and Pheres. In Euripides's play Medea, Jason leaves Medea when Creon, king of Corinth, offers him his daughter, Glauce. The play tells of Medea avenging her husband's betrayal by killing their children.

The myths involving Jason have been interpreted as part of a class of myths that tell how the Hellenes of the distant heroic age, before the Trojan War, faced the challenges of the pre-Greek "Pelasgian" cultures of mainland Greece, the Aegean and Anatolia. Jason, Perseus, Theseus, and above all Heracles, are all figures on the threshold between the old world of shamans, earth deities, and the new Bronze Age Greek ways.

Medea figures in the myth of Jason and the Argonauts, a myth known best from a late literary version worked up by Apollonius of Rhodes in the 3rd century BC and called the Argonautica. However, for all its self-consciousness and researched archaic vocabulary, the late epic was based on very old, scattered materials. Medea is known in most stories as an enchantress and is often depicted as a priestess of the goddess Hecate or a witch. The myth of Jason and Medea is very old, originally written around the time Hesiod wrote the Theogony. It was known to the composer of the  Little Iliad, part of the Epic Cycle.

[[Cloak]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing

A cloak is a type of loose garment. It is worn over indoor clothing. It protects a person, for example from cold or rain. It may be part of an outfit or uniform. Cloaks have been used by many historical societies. Their designs, over time, have been changed to match fashion and available textiles.

Cloaks generally fasten at the neck or over the shoulder. They can be different lengths, from hip all the way down the ankle. They may have an attached hood. They may fasten down the front. Cloaks are almost always sleeveless.

[[Equal Protection Clause]]

CATEGORIES: United States Constitution

The Equal Protection Clause is part of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The clause, which took effect in 1868, provides that no state shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction "the equal protection of the laws". 

[[State supreme court]]

CATEGORIES: United States law, Courts (law)

In the United States, a state supreme court (known by other names in some states) is the highest judicial tribunal in the court system of a particular state. 

Generally, the state supreme court, like most appellate courts, is exclusively for hearing appeals from lower courts. It does not make any finding of facts, and thus holds no trials.  In the case where the trial court made an egregious error in its finding of facts, the state supreme court will send the case back to the trial court for a new trial.  This responsibility of correcting the errors of inferior courts is the origin of a number of the different names for supreme courts in various state court systems. The court consists of a panel of judges selected by methods outlined in the state constitution. 

Many states elect their state Supreme Court justices and/or use elections to retain judges. Since 2000, the amount of money raised by judicial candidates has risen enormously. Special interest groups have contributed to many of these campaigns raising questions of impartiality. The US Supreme Court, in Caperton v. A.T. Massey Coal Co. (2009) in a 5-4 decision, ruled that an elected state supreme court judge sitting on a case involving a campaign contributor was a violation of due process.  

[[Investment bank]]

CATEGORIES: Banks

The phrase Investment Bank refers to a business that helps other businesses (and also governments) borrow money from other people and businesses and/or allow businesses to partially or fully sell themselves to other people and businesses. Unlike a regular bank, they do not typically lend their own money or use their own money to purchase part or all of a business, but instead they help to match the business financing need to those other business and personal investors who are seeking to earn money by either lending to the business or owning part of the business.

In the mid twentieth century, certain investment banks started to also try and help their business clients to sell their business entirely to other businesses instead of to investors, as well as to help businesses decide what other business they should buy, in exchange for a fee based on the sale price of the business. This activity became known as Mergers and Acquisitions and today falls into the category of investment banking. In fact, there are many small investment banks that only offer this activity, and do not help businesses to borrow money or sell ownership in the business. 

An investment bank most often helps businesses to borrow money using a form of a contract known as a bond, and to sell ownership in the company using a contract known as stock. Most countries have developed government rules that in exchange for requirements that the business operate in a certain manner and disclose their financial results in a certain manner, they are then allowed to borrow money using bonds and sell ownership using stock to the general public, and the general public is allowed to sell bonds and stock to other members of the public without being responsible for the operations and financial disclosures of the business. 

Some reasons that a business might choose to borrow money from investors instead of a bank may include the following:

Some reasons that a business owner would agree to use an investment bank to sell part or all of their business to other investors include the following:

Investment Banks therefore work with two kinds of customers, one being the businesses/governments which desire to borrow funds or sell ownership, and the individuals and other businesses who want to earn a profit on their money by lending to or owning other businesses. 

[[Wiesław Rudkowski]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, 1968 Summer Olympics, Boxers, Medalists at the 1972 Summer Olympics, Olympic silver medalists, People from Łódź, Polish Olympic medalists

Wiesław Ksawery Rudkowski (17 November 1946 – 14 February 2016) was a Polish boxer. He was born in Łódź. He competed in the 1968 Summer Olympics. He won a silver medal at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, losing in the final against Dieter Kottysch. 

Rudkowski died from a heart attack on 14 February 2016 in Warsaw. He was 69.

[[Giambattista Pittoni]]

CATEGORIES: 1687 births, 1767 deaths, Italian painters, People from Venice

Giambattista Pittoni (or Giovanni Battista Pittoni; 6 June 1687 – 6 November 1767) was an Italian painter. His paintings are from the late Baroque or Rococo period. He was among the people who started the Academy of Fine Arts of Venice.

Pittoni was born in Venice on 6 June 1687. He worked there for most of his life. He travelled to France in 1720. It was around this time that his style of painting changed. His style became influenced by French styles. Pittoni joined a Venetian guild of painters in 1716. He served as president of the Academy of Fine Arts of Venice from 1758 to 1760 and from 1763 to 1764. He was in high demand all across Italy during his life.

[[Tories]]

CATEGORIES: Former political parties in the United Kingdom, 17th century establishments in England, 19th century disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Conservative Party (UK)

The Tories were one of the two political parties which existed in Britain from the 17th to the early 19th centuries. They were the opponents of the Whigs, which were for a long time the ruling party.

The Tories were first part of the Parliament of England, the legislature of the kingdom of England. After the Acts of Union 1707, the Tories were part of the United Kingdom's Parliament of Great Britain, and after the Act of Union 1800 they were part of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.

The Tories were originally (1678 to about 1770) the supporters of the Catholic kings (Charles I and II, James I and II), limiting the power of UK Parliament and supporting freedoms for Catholics. Later, (1780 to 1830) they became the New Tory Party, and were again a successful party able to hold government.

The most famous leaders of the New Tory Party were William Pitt the Younger, and Robert Peel the industrialist. Benjamin Disraeli built the modern Conservative Party out of the remains of the New Tory Party.

[[James Broun-Ramsay, 1st Marquess of Dalhousie]]

CATEGORIES: 1812 births, 1860 deaths, Scottish politicians, People of British India, Governors-general

James Andrew Broun-Ramsay, 1st Marquess of Dalhousie KT, PC (22 April 1812 – 19 December 1860), known as The Earl of Dalhousie between 1838 and 1849, was a Scottish statesman and a colonial administrator in British India. He served as Governor-General of India from 1848 to 1856.

He created the doctrine of lapse; by this some Indian customs of inheritance were forbidden. He passed The Hindu Remarriage Act in 1856. He built the first railway line which was between Bombay and Thane. Under his rule several independent Indian states were annexed by applying the doctrine of lapse, e.g. the state of Jhansi. The Kingdom of Oudh was also annexed because the governor general thought its government was corrupt.

[[Forced migration]]

CATEGORIES: Forced migration, Human rights abuses, Population

Forced migration (also called displacements) is when people are made to leave their home or homeland. It is usually caused by violence, persecution, danger, or because an authority (such as a government) has told people to move. People are removed either by force or because of a threat or command. A person who has become forced to migrate is called a "forced migrant" or "displaced person". They may be called a refugee, but that term has a specific legal definition.

Migration of people is constantly happening, but in a stable society it usually happens because a person chooses to do it. Forced migration occurs when people's lives, well-being or freedom is endangered. They may have little or no choice but to move. In some cases, such as human trafficking and slavery, people are physically removed from their homes.

Occasionally a government forces people and communities out of their homes or homelands for the purposes of economic development or military. It has been most often been associated with the building of dams and military bases.

Migration can also be forced by natural disasters, when people are forced to evacuate an area. This is usually temporary, and people can return to their land once it is safe.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees says Afghanistan produces the most number of refugees each year. It has held that position for 32 years. Almost half of refugees are children under the age of 18. Many of these are separated from their parents.

[[General Secretary of the Communist Party of China]]

CATEGORIES: General Secretaries of the Communist Party of China

The General Secretary of the Communist Party of China is the leader of the Communist Party of China and the highest-ranking official within China. The General Secretary is a standing member of the Politburo and head of the Secretariat. The officeholder is usually considered the paramount leader of the People's Republic of China.

According to the Constitution, the General Secretary serves as a member of the Politburo Standing Committee, the main governing group in China. Since the early 1990s, the holder of the post has been, except for transitional periods, the Chairman of the Central Military Commission. This means that the holder is also the commander-in-chief of the People's Liberation Army.

The current General Secretary is Xi Jinping. He took office on 15 November 2012.

[[President of China]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the People's Republic of China

The President of China (officially President of the People's Republic of China) is the head of state of the People's Republic of China (PRC). On paper, the presidency is a largely ceremonial office with limited powers.  However, in recent years the General Secretary of the Communist Party has also served simultaneously as President. His election to the office makes him paramount leader of China. The office is classified as an institution of the state rather than an administrative post.

The current President is Xi Jinping. He took office on 14 March 2013.

[[Premier of the People's Republic of China]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the People's Republic of China, Premiers of the People's Republic of China

The Premier of China, officially "Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China", is the leader of the State Council of China, who is the head of government and holds the highest rank (Level 1) in the Civil Service.

The Premier is formally approved by the National People's Congress upon the nomination of the President. In practice, the candidate is chosen through an informal process within the Communist Party of China. Both the President and the Premier are selected once every five years. The Premier has always been a member of the powerful Politburo Standing Committee.

The current Premier is Li Keqiang, who took office on 15 March 2013.

[[Freedom Trail]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Boston, Massachusetts, 20th century in Massachusetts, National Historic Landmarks of the United States

The Freedom Trail is a walking trail through Boston, Massachusetts. It passes by 16 places that are important to American history.  The Trail is 2.5 miles (4.0 km) long.  It starts at the Boston Common and ends at the USS Constitution in the Charlestown Navy Yard.

The Black Heritage Trail crosses the Freedom Trail between the Massachusetts State House and Park Street Church.

[[Pat Conroy]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, American novelists, Writers from Atlanta, Georgia

Pat Conroy (October 26, 1945 – March 4, 2016) was an American author. He has written several famous novels and memoirs. Two of his novels, The Prince of Tides and The Great Santini, were made into movies that were nominated for Academy Awards. He was known as a leading writer of late-20th century Southern literature.

Conroy died on March 4, 2016 from pancreatic cancer in Beaufort, South Carolina. He was aged 70.

[[Ali Brownlee]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2016 deaths, Bankers, BBC radio presenters, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Disease-related deaths in Yorkshire, English radio personalities, People from Middlesbrough, English sports commentators, Sportspeople from Yorkshire

Alastair "Ali" Brownlee (1959 – 14 February 2016) was a English radio broadcaster. He was born in Middlesbrough, North Riding of Yorkshire. He was best known for his coverage of Middlesbrough Football Club on BBC Tees from 1982 onwards. His connection to the club earned him the honorific "Voice of the Boro".

Brownlee was a bank manager before becoming a sports commentator.

Brownlee died on 14 February 2016 at a hospital in Linthorpe, Middlesbrough, North Yorkshire. He had suffered from bowel cancer for three months. He was aged 56.

[[Fighton Simukonda]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2016 deaths, African footballers, Deaths from diabetes, Football managers, Zambian sportspeople

Fighton Simukonda (2 February 1958 – 15 February 2016) was a Zambian football player and coach. He was part of the Nkana Red Devils team during the 1980s. He won five league titles. He was also captain of Zambia's national team. As a coach, he has won several Zambian Premier League titles. He became the first coach to lead a Zambian club to the group phase of the CAF Champions' League.

Simukonda died on 15 February 2016 from complications of diabetes. He was aged 58.

[[Slobodan Santrač]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Serbian football managers, Serbian footballers, Yugoslavian sportspeople

Slobodan Santrač (Serbian Cyrillic: Слободан Сантрач; 1 July 1946 – 13 February 2016) was a Yugoslav and Serbian football manager and player. He was the all-time top scorer of the Yugoslav First League with a total of 218 goals. He was also the top scorer in the history of OFK Beograd. 

After finishing his playing career, Santrač was manager of numerous clubs and national teams. He reached the knockout stage with FR Yugoslavia at the 1998 FIFA World Cup in France.

On 13 February 2016, Santrač died of a heart attack in Belgrade. He was aged 69.

[[Patriarch Kirill of Moscow]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Christian religious leaders, People from Moscow

Kirill or Cyril (Кирилл, secular name Vladimir Mikhailovich Gundyayev, Владимир Михайлович Гундяев; born 20 November 1946) is a Russian Orthodox bishop. He became Patriarch of Moscow and all Rus' and Primate of the Russian Orthodox Church on 1 February 2009.

Before becoming Patriarch, Kirill was Archbishop (later Metropolitan) of Smolensk and Kaliningrad from 26 December 1984. He was also Chairman of the Russian Orthodox Church's Department for External Church Relations and a permanent member of the Holy Synod beginning in 1989.

[[Burr–Hamilton duel]]

CATEGORIES: 1804 in the United States, Violence, History of New Jersey, July events

The Burr–Hamilton duel was a duel fought between two well-known American politicians. It was between the former secretary of the treasury Alexander Hamilton and sitting vice president Aaron Burr. It took place on July 11, 1804. The duel was caused by a long and bitter rivalry between the two men. At Weehawken, in New Jersey, Burr shot and wounded Hamilton. Hamilton was carried to the home of William Bayard on the Manhattan shore, where he died the next day. The duel ended Burr's political career.

[[Girls (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 American television series debuts, 2017 American television series endings, 2010s American drama television series, 2010s American sitcoms, 2010s comedy-drama television series, 2010s LGBT television series, American comedy-drama television series, American LGBT television programs, BAFTA Award winning programmes, Brooklyn in fiction, Emmy Award winning programs, Golden Globe Award winning programs, HBO television series, LGBT comedy television series, LGBT drama television series, Television series about friendship, Television series set in New York City, Works about cousins, English-language television programs

Girls is an American comedy-drama television series. The show began on HBO on April 15, 2012. It was created by Lena Dunham, who plays Hannah.

The show is about the lives of four young women living in Brooklyn, New York City.

[[Brachial plexus]]

CATEGORIES: Nervous system

The brachial plexus is a group of nerves. It runs from the vertebral column to the arm. 

[[Triangle Marsh]]

CATEGORIES: Marin County, California, Geography of California, Wetlands

Triangle Marsh is a wetland in the San Francisco Bay area. It is at the base of Ring Mountain at the north end of the Tiburon Peninsula in Marin County, California.

[[University of Tromsø]]

CATEGORIES: Education in Norway, Tromsø

University of Tromsø (UiT, "The arctic university of Norway") is a university in Norway. The main campus is in Tromsø. It also has campuses in Alta, Hammerfest, Harstad and Narvik. The main campus is located north on the Tromsø island in Troms county.

The university was founded in 1971 by the Norwegian government. It has had four mergers since then:

When UiT merged with Tromsø University College it became the oldest school in Norway. Tromsø University College was founded on 7 February 1826. It was then called Trondenes seminar.

[[Juramaia]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals, Fossils, Jurassic

Juramaia is the earliest known eutherian mammal. It is a small shrew-like mammal of body length about 70100 mm. It is an extinct genus  from the Upper Jurassic deposits of western Liaoning, China. 

A nearly complete skeleton, with an incomplete skull with full dentition was found. It was collected in the Daxigou site, Jianchang, from the Tiaojishan Formation. It is dated at about 160 million years ago.

The discovery of Juramaia provides new insight into the evolution of eutherian mammals. It shows their lineage diverged from that of the marsupials 35 million years earlier than previously thought.  Furthermore, its discovery fills gaps in the fossil record and helps to calibrate modern, DNA-based methods of dating the evolution. 

The forelimb bones have climbing adaptations, so it is suggested  that the basal stock of Eutheria was arboreal.

[[Nishagandhi Puraskaram]]

CATEGORIES: Art awards, Kerala

Nishagandhi Puraskaram (നിശാഗന്ധി പുരസ്കാരം) is an award given out by the government of Kerala in India. It is given out every year by the Tourism department. It is awarded to artists in the fields of dance and music.

The award comes with 1,50,000 rupees, a citation and a statuette. It is awarded as  part of the Nishagandhi Dance and Music Festival, which is held in January every year. This is a cultural annual programme of the Tourism department of Kerala. The award ceremony takes place at the Nishagandhi theatre in the Kanakakkunnu Palace ground in Trivandrum, the capital city of Kerala. The award was introduced to make the festival more popular on a national and international level. 

The Nishagandhi Puraskaram was first awarded to the classical dancer Mrinalini Sarabhai in 2013. Hindustani musician Lalith J Rao and Bharata Natyam artist Padma Subrahmanyam won the awards in the next years (2014 and 2015).  The most recent recipient of the award in 2016 is the music director Ilayaraja.

[[Exsanguination]]

CATEGORIES: Blood disorders, Medical emergencies

thumb|A half liter of blood (enough for one blood transfusion).  If an average adult lost 5 to 8 times this much blood, they could die from exsanguinationExsanguination is losing enough blood to cause death.  A person does not have to lose all of their blood to exsanguinate.  People can die from losing half to two-thirds of their blood.

The average adult has about 4 to 6 liters of blood (9 to 12 US pints) in their body. The average man has more blood than the average woman, and people who weigh more or are taller than others have more blood.  This means a person can die from losing 2 1/2 to 4 liters of blood.  To compare, this is five to eight times as much blood as people usually give in a blood donation.

Children and babies have much less blood than adults, and can exsanguinate by losing much less blood than adults.

Exsanguination is often called bleeding to death or bleeding out.  It is a medical emergency.

[[Vanity (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Ontario, Canadian movie actors, R&B musicians, Canadian singer-songwriters, Canadian television actors, Deaths from renal failure, Disease-related deaths in California, Singers from Ontario

Denise Katrina Matthews, also known as Vanity (January 4, 1959 – February 15, 2016), was a Canadian-American singer, songwriter, actress, dancer and model. She was the lead singer of the female trio Vanity 6 between 1981 until it disbanded in 1983. The group was well known for their 1982 hit song "Nasty Girl".

Vanity also had a successful acting career, starring in movies, including Action Jackson and The Last Dragon. 

In 1994, Vanity converted to Christianity.

Vanity was born in Niagara Falls, Ontario. She died of complications from peritoneal dialysis in a Fremont, California hospital. She was 57.

[[Seventh Amendment to the United States Constitution]]

CATEGORIES: Amendments to the United States Constitution

The Seventh Amendment (Amendment VII) to the United States Constitution is part of the Bill of Rights. This amendment codifies the right to a jury trial in certain civil cases. It also stops courts from overturning a jury's verdict. The Seventh Amendment's provision for jury trials in civil cases has never been incorporated (applied to the states). However, the rights to civil jury trials are found in nearly every state constitution.

The prohibition of overturning a jury's verdict applies to federal cases, state cases involving federal law, and to review of state cases by federal courts. United States v. Wonson (1812) established the "historical test", which interpreted the amendment as relying on English common law to determine whether a jury trial was necessary in a civil lawsuit. The amendment thus does not guarantee trial by jury in cases under maritime law, in lawsuits against the government itself, and for many parts of patent claims. In all other cases, the jury can be waived by consent of the parties. The amendment also guarantees a minimum of six members for a jury in a civil trial. 

[[Eddie Barry]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Massachusetts, Boston Bruins players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts

Edward Thomas "Ed" Barry (October 12, 1919 – February 12, 2016) was an American professional ice hockey player. Barry also played for the Boston Olympics of the Eastern Hockey League and the Boston Bruins, and later became the coach at Boston State College. He has been a member of the Northeastern University athletics Hall of Fame since 1976, and a member of the UMass Boston Hall of Fame since 2003.

Barry died on February 12, 2016 from complications of Alzheimer's disease. He was under hospice care in Needham, Massachusetts at the time. He was aged 96.

[[Christopher Zeeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Japanese scientists, British mathematicians, People from Oxfordshire

Sir Erik Christopher Zeeman FRS (4 February 1925 – 13 February 2016), was a British mathematician. He was known for his work in geometric topology and singularity theory. Zeeman's main contributions to mathematics were in topology, particularly in knot theory, the piecewise linear category, and dynamical systems.

[[Arnold Rüütel]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Presidents of Estonia

Arnold Rüütel OIH (ˈɑrnolʲdʲ ˈryːtelʲ) (born May 10, 1928) is a Estonian politician. 

He served as the last Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Estonian SSR from April 8, 1983 to March 29, 1990, Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the Estonian SSR (from May 8, 1990: Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia) from March 29, 1990 to October 6, 1992 and was the third President of the Republic of Estonia from October 8, 2001 to October 9, 2006. 

He was the second President since Estonia regained independence in 1991. Rüütel also served as one of fifteen Deputy Chairmen of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR.

[[Zhu Rongji]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Premiers of the People's Republic of China

Zhu Rongji (朱镕基; born 1 October 1928) is a Chinese politician. He served as Mayor and Party chief in Shanghai between 1987 and 1991. He then served as Vice Premier and then fifth Premier of the People's Republic of China from March 1998 to March 2003.

[[Bill Dana]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American screenwriters, Actors from Massachusetts, Comedians from Massachusetts, Writers from Massachusetts

Bill Dana (October 5, 1924 – June 15, 2017) was an American comedian, actor and screenwriter. He often appeared on television shows such as The Ed Sullivan Show. He was known for appearing as a heavily accented Bolivian character named José Jiménez.  Dana often portrayed the Jiménez character as an astronaut.

Dana died at his home in Nashville, Tennessee on June 15, 2017 at the age of 92.

[[Annie Glenn]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, American civil rights activists, American centenarians, American philanthropists, People from Columbus, Ohio

Anna Margaret "Annie" Glenn, (née Castor; February 17, 1920 – May 19, 2020) was an American activist and philanthropist. She was the widow of former astronaut and Senator John Glenn. She was added into the National Stuttering Association Hall of Fame.

She was known for her works to raise awareness of children and adults with disabilities such as stuttering. She suffered from it during her early years until it went away when she was in her 50s.

Glenn was born in Columbus, Ohio. She studied at Muskingum College. Glenn married John Glenn in 1943. Together, they had two children. Glenn died at a nursing home in St. Paul, Minnesota on May 19, 2020 at the age of 100. The cause of death was COVID-19.

[[Li Peng]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2019 deaths, Premiers of the People's Republic of China, Communists

Li Peng (20 October 1928 – 22 July 2019) was a Chinese politician. He served as the fourth Premier of the People's Republic of China, between 1987 and 1998. He also served as the Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, China's top legislative body from 1998 to 2003.

For much of the 1990s, Li was ranked second in the Communist Party of China (CPC) hierarchy behind then General Secretary Jiang Zemin. He retained his seat on the CPC Politburo Standing Committee until 2002.

Li died on 22 July 2019 at the age of 90 from an illness at a hospital in Beijing.

[[Intravenous therapy]]

CATEGORIES: Medical equipment, Medical procedures, Drug paraphernalia

Intravenous injection or intravenous therapy means putting liquid into a vein, using a needle.  Many illegal drugs and medications can be given intravenously.

[[The Selfish Gene]]

CATEGORIES: Biology books, Evolutionary biology, 1976 books

The Selfish Gene is a book on evolution by Richard Dawkins, published in 1976. It builds upon the work of George C. Williams's  book: Adaptation and Natural Selection, and helped popularize W.D. Hamilton's work. 

Dawkins used the term "selfish gene" as a way of expressing the "gene-centred view of evolution". From the gene-centred view, it follows that the more two individuals are genetically related, the more sense (at the level of the genes) it makes for them to behave selflessly with each other. 

An organism evolves to maximise its inclusive fitness—the number of copies of its genes passed on globally (rather than by a particular individual). 

Dawkins proposes the idea of the "replicator":

The book also coins the term meme for a unit of human cultural evolution analogous to the gene. 

[[Miss Israel]]

CATEGORIES: Beauty pageants, Israeli culture

Miss Israel is a beauty contest. It has been held every year since 1950. The winner competes in the Miss Universe contest and the second place competes in the Miss World contest.

[[Panzerchrist]]

CATEGORIES: Danish musicians, Death metal bands

Panzerchrist is a Danish blackened death metal band. It was formed in 1993–1994 by Michael Enevoldsen (after he left Illdisposed) and Danish artist Lasse Hoile.

[[Whip (disambiguation)]]

A whip is a long strand of leather with a hard handle, used for directing or hitting animals or people.

Whip may also refer to:

[[Native American flute]]

CATEGORIES: Musical instruments, Flutes, Native American

The Native American flute is a flute that is held in front of the person playing it, has open holes for the player's fingers, and has two separate parts:

one for the breath of the person playing the flute and another that makes the sound of the flute.

The player breathes into one end of the flute.

A block on the outside of the flute

directs the player's breath from the first part to the second part,

causing air to vibrate in the second part.

The vibration causes a steady resonance of air in the second part that creates sound.

Native American flutes are made in many different designs, sizes, and variations —

far more other woodwind instruments.

[[Politburo of the Communist Party of China]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the People's Republic of China

The Central Politburo of the Communist Party of China is a group of 25 people who oversee the Communist Party of China. It is formally called the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. It was previously called the Central Bureau (中央局) before 1927. Unlike politburos (political bureaus) of other Communist parties, power within the politburo is centralized in the Politburo Standing Committee. The members of the Politburo are nominally elected by the Central Committee.

The power of the Politburo is mostly due to the fact that its members generally also hold positions within the government of the People's Republic of China. It also appoints people to high-ranking jobs. The topics for discussion at the meetings appears to be controlled by the General Secretary. Decisions are made by consensus rather than by majority vote.

[[State Council of China]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the People's Republic of China

The State Council is the cabinet of the People's Republic of China. Currently, the council has 35 members: the premier, four vice premiers, five state councilors (of whom two are also ministers), and 25 additional ministers and chairs of major agencies. Constitutionally, the State Council is the same as the Central People's Government since 1954 (particularly in relation to local governments).

In the politics of China, the Central People's Government forms one of three interlocking branches of power, the others being the Communist Party of China and the People's Liberation Army. The State Council directly oversees the various subordinate People's Governments in the provinces, and in practice maintains membership with the top levels of the Communist Party of China.

[[National People's Congress]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the People's Republic of China, National legislatures

The National People's Congress (usually abbreviated NPC) is the national legislature of the People's Republic of China. It had 2,987 members in 2013. It is the largest parliament in the world. Under China's current Constitution, the NPC is unicameral; it is not divided into a lower house and an upper house. It the power to legislate, to oversee the operations of the government, and the power to elect the major officers of state.

[[Laser pointer]]

CATEGORIES: Light, Machines

A laser pointer (or laser pen) is a small device that shines a low-powered laser light. The pointer is usually powered by a battery. It contains a laser diode that emits a very narrow laser beam of visible light. When pointed at an object, it shines a small bright spot of colored light. The pointer is held in a hand. It is used to highlight something of interest. Power is restricted in most jurisdictions not to exceed 5 milliwatts.

[[Hu Chunhua]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Chinese communists, Chinese politicians, Communist politicians

Hu Chunhua (胡春华; born April 1963) is a Chinese politician born in Hubei Province.

In 1979, Hu was admitted to Beijing University. He graduated from Beijing University in 1983. After graduation, Hu volunteered to work in Tibet autonomous region. During 1988 ~ 1992 he worked in Tibet, Hu Jingtao was the local Communist Party chief. In 1997, he left Tibet and worked as leader in Communist Youth League of China.

In 2001, Hu Chunhua returned back to Tibet. This time he worked there as senior party and government official. After 5 years of rich experience, in December 2006, he was promoted to the chief of Communist Youth League of China in Beijing.

In March 2008, Hu was appointed as deputy party chief of CPC in Hebei province; and nominated to be the candidate of provincial governor. In April, he was appointed as Hebei governor; and officially elected as governor in January 2009.

In November 2009, Hu was appointed as CPC party chief on Inner Mongolia autonomous region.

In November 2012, Hu was promoted to the powerful Communist Party's Politburo. He was assigned the Communist Party Secretary of Guangdong province, the province's top political office. Hu and another Communist Party's Politburo member Sun Zhengcai Hu were seen as promising candidates in the 'sixth generation' of Chinese leadership. However, Xi Jinping, the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, changed the traditional power transfer rule. While Hu was not as unfortunate as Sun who was charged and sentenced (in 2018) due to corruption, he failed to enter the leadership core of CPC - the Politburo Standing Committee.

[[Upsala-Lenna Jernväg]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in Europe, Transport in Sweden

Upsala-Lenna Jernväg (ULJ) is a railway line in Sweden. It runs from the city of Uppsala to various small towns in Uppsala Municipality. It is 33 long. It is a part of the Roslagen network. It is a heritage railway.

[[Corazón que miente]]

CATEGORIES: Telenovelas by Televisa, Mexican television series, 2010s television series, 2016 television series debuts, 2010s establishments in Mexico

Corazón que miente (English: Lying Heart) is a Mexican telenovela. It is produced by Mapat L. de Zatarain for Televisa. It is a remake of the Mexican telenovela Laberintos de pasión, produced in 1999 by Ernesto Alonso. It is created by Cuauhtémoc Blanco and Maria del Carmen Peña. 

The series stars Thelma Madrigal as Mariela, Pablo Lyle as Alonso, Diego Olivera as Leonardo and Dulce María as Renata.

The series was first shown on Februaury 8, 2016, in Mexico on Canal de las Estrellas.

== Cast == 

[[Sun Zhengcai]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Chinese communists, Chinese politicians, Communist politicians

Sun Zhengcai (孙政才; born September 25 1963) was a Chinese politician and senior regional official before his fall from power in 2017. 

Sun joined Communist Party of China (CPC) in July 1988. He was a member of the CPC Central Committee since 2007. Since November 2012, Sun has been the Communist Party Secretary of Chongqing, an interior municipality, and a member of the Politburo of the Communist Party of China. Before that, he served as the Party Secretary of Jilin province, and Minister of Agriculture of China. 

Sun is the youngest member of the 18th Politburo, and one of only two members born after 1960, the other being Hu Chunhua. As such, Sun and Hu were considered to be a leading candidate for a top leadership position in the "6th Generation of Chinese leadership". However, Xi Jinping, the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, changed the game by abandoning the successors designated by his predecessors.

In July 14, 2017, Sun was removed from the post of Communist Party Secretary of Chongqing, and investigated for wrong-doings. On July 24, the Chinese official news agency reported that Sun violated CPC's disciplines. On September 29, Sun was stripped of his CPC membership, fired from his government position, and charged for crime. On May 8, 2018, Sun was sentenced for life in prison.

[[Undue burden standard]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, United States Constitution

The undue burden standard is a constitutional test created by the Supreme Court of the United States. The test, first developed in the late 19th century, is widely used in American constitutional law. In short, the Undue Burden standard says the legislature cannot make a particular law that is too burdensome or restrictive of one's fundamental rights.

One use of the standard was in Morgan v. Commonwealth of Virginia, 328 U.S. 373 (1946). In a 7-to-1 ruling, Associate Justice Stanley Forman Reed fashioned an "undue burden" test to decide the constitutionality of a Virginia law requiring separate but equal racial segregation in public transportation. "There is a recognized abstract principle, however, that may be taken as a postulate for testing whether particular state legislation in the absence of action by Congress is beyond state power. This is that the state legislation is invalid if it unduly burdens that commerce in matters where uniformity is necessary—necessary in the constitutional sense of useful in accomplishing a permitted purpose."

More recently, the standard has been used in cases involving state restrictions on a woman's access to abortion. The standard was applied by Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor in her dissent in City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, 462 US 416 (1983). O'Connor used the test as an alternative to the strict scrutiny test applied in Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973).

[[Castillo]]

Castillo may refer to:

[[Castillo-Albaráñez]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile-La Mancha

Castillo-Albaráñez is a municipality in Cuenca, Castile-La Mancha, Spain. It has a population of 28.

[[Castillo de Garcimuñoz]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile-La Mancha

Castillo de Garcimuñoz is a municipality in Cuenca, Castile-La Mancha, Spain. It has a population of 209.

[[El Oasis]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Chihuahua

El Oasis is a rural community in Ojinaga Municipality, Chihuahua, Mexico. It had a population of 475 inhabitants at the 2010 census. It is also situated at 1,204 meters above sea level.

[[February 2016 Ankara bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 in Turkey, 2010s explosions in Asia, 2010s murders in Asia, Ankara, Car and truck bombings in Asia, Crime in Turkey, Explosions in 2016, February 2016 events, Mass murder in 2016, Mass murder in Asia, Suicide bombings in Asia, Suicide bombings in the 2010s, Suicide car and truck bombings, Terrorist incidents in 2016, Terrorist incidents in Asia in the 2010s

The February 2016 Ankara bombing was a car bombing in Ankara, Turkey, in the afternoon of 17 February 2016. An operation was launched against the suspected attackers.February 2016

[[April Winchell]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American radio personalities, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City

April Winchell Foley (born January 4, 1960) is an American actress, voice actress , comedian, clown, jester, mime, writer, color commentator and dancer. She is best known for voicing Clarabelle Cow in Mickey Mouse ClubHouse and various other Disney projects.

She is the daughter of comedian and ventriloquist, Paul Winchell.

She was married Mick Kuisel until they divorced. She has been married to John Foley since 2013.

[[Bursitis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Bursitis is a painful condition. Small sacs called bursae get inflamed. Bursae are pockets between your muscles and your bones. Your bursa help you move without pain. In bursitis, the inflammation is often caused by extra fluid in the bursae. The most common places to have bursitis are in your hip and shoulder. You can also have bursitis in your elbow, knee and toe.

[[Mohamed Hassanein Heikal]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Egyptian journalists, People from Cairo

Mohamed Hassanein Heikal (23 September 1923 – 17 February 2016) was an Egyptian journalist. For 17 years (1957–1974), he was editor-in-chief of the Cairo newspaper Al-Ahram. He was a commentator on Arab affairs for more than 50 years. He was born in Cairo, Egypt.

Heikal died in Cairo, Egypt from renal failure on 17 February 2016. He was aged 92.

[[Akbar Kakkattil]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Indian writers, People from Kerala

Akbar Kakkattil (7 July 1954 – 17 February 2016) was an Indian short-story writer and novelist. He was born in Kerala state. His works are known for their unique narrative style which has been seen as full of humour. His work, "Sarga Sameeksha", a creative and critical interface of a young writer with the iconic writers of the old generation is perhaps the first of its kind among Indian languages.February 2016

Kakkattil died in a hospital in Kerala from lung cancer on 17 February 2016. He was aged 62.

[[Andrzej Żuławski]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Poland, Polish movie directors, Polish writers

Andrzej Żuławski (ˈandʐɛj ʐuˈwafskʲi; 22 November 1940 – 17 February 2016) was a Polish movie director and writer. He was born in Lwów, Poland (now Ukraine). 

In the late 1950s, he studied filmmaking in France. His second movie The Devil (1972) was banned in Poland, and Żuławski went to France. After the success of That Most Important Thing: Love in 1975, he returned to Poland where he spent two years making On the Silver Globe (1988). After that, Żuławski moved to France where he became known for controversial and violent art-house movies. Żuławski is also known for his work with actresses including Romy Schneider, Isabelle Adjani and Sophie Marceau.

Żuławski died of pancreatic cancer in Warsaw on 17 February 2016. He was aged 75.

[[Mies Bouwman]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from cardiomyopathy, Dutch television presenters, People from Amsterdam

Maria Antoinette "Mies" Bouwman (31 December 1929 – 26 February 2018) was a retired Dutch television presenter. She was born in Amsterdam. She started her career on the very first broadcasting evening of the Dutch broadcasting association KRO (Catholic Radio Broadcaster) on 16 October 1951.

Bouwman developed and hosted Eén van de acht. It was known in the UK as The Generation Game. She hosted many talk shows, as well as the Dutch version of This Is Your Life. She stopped her regular work after falling sick but has occasionally returned for special programs.

Bouwman died on 26 February 2018 in Elst, Netherlands of cardiomyopathy at the age of 88.

[[Ludwig (surname)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Ludwig is German name. It can be a given name for males or a surname. It means "famous warrior".

[[Casas]]

Casas may refer to:

[[Casas de Haro]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile-La Mancha

Casas de Haro is a municipality in Cuenca, Castile-La Mancha, Spain. It has a population of 910.

[[Casas de los Pinos]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile-La Mancha

Casas de los Pinos is a municipality in Cuenca, Castile-La Mancha, Spain. It has a population of 531.

[[Casas de Guijarro]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile-La Mancha

Casas de Guijarro is a municipality in Cuenca, Castile-La Mancha, Spain. It has a population of 135.

[[Casas de Garcimolina]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile-La Mancha

Casas de Garcimolina is a municipality in Cuenca, Castile-La Mancha, Spain. It has a population of 39.

[[Casas de Fernando Alonso]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile-La Mancha

Casas de Fernando Alonso is a municipality in Cuenca, Castile-La Mancha, Spain. It has a population of 1,405.

[[Casas de Benítez]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Castile-La Mancha

Casas de Benítez is a municipality in Cuenca, Castile-La Mancha, Spain. It has a population of 1,118.

[[Yacouba Sawadogo]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century births, Living people, Agriculture, Burkinabé people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Yacouba Sawadogo is a farmer from Burkina Faso, a country in West Africa. He has been using a traditional farming technique called Zaï to help soil damaged by drought. He is notable for spreading an improved soil and water conservation practice in Burkina Faso.

[[Zaï]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Zaï is a technique used in agriculture. Holes are dug in the soil to catch water. They have been used in the western Sahel area to make soil healthier and grow more plants.

Yacouba Sawadogo, a farmer from Burkina Faso, is bringing back zaï holes. He came up with the idea of filling them with manure and compost as food for plants. The manure attracts termites, whose tunnels help further break up the soil. He also made the holes slightly bigger than the traditional ones. Zaï holes help trees, sorghum, and millet make up to 500% more food or wood. 

[[Jury trial]]

CATEGORIES: Legal terms, Trials

A jury trial or trial by jury is a legal proceeding in which a jury either makes a decision or makes findings of fact. This is called a verdict. The judge usually follows the jury's verdict in his ruling. It is distinguished from a bench trial, in which a judge or panel of judges make all decisions.

[[Lacrimal bone]]

CATEGORIES: Bones of the skull

The lacrimal bone is the smallest bone in the face; about the size of the little fingernail. It is at the front of the inside wall of the eye socket. 

The lacrimal bone is involved in crying. It is part of the tear duct, where tears drain from the eye. The lacrimal sac is where tears flow when you cry. The tears then go down a duct inside the nose. This is why you can get a runny nose from crying. 

[[Chief Mouser to the Cabinet Office]]

CATEGORIES: Chief Mouser, Politics of the United Kingdom, 1515 establishments, 1510s establishments in England

The Chief Mouser to the Cabinet Office is the official cat of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. The cat works at 10 Downing Street. Only three cats, Humphrey, Sybil and Larry, have been given the title officially. Other cats have been given this title as a nickname, usually by the British press. There has been a Downing Street cat mouser and pet since the reign of Henry VIII.

Official records about these working cats only date back to 3 June 1929. These come from the Treasury and state the cost for taking care of the cat. Now, the mouser costs 100 GBP (about $140) a year for keep.

The cats do not always belong to the Prime Minister in residence. Only rarely do they serve for exactly the same time as a Prime Minister.The cat with the longest known time at Downing Street is Wilberforce. He served for eighteen years under Edward Heath, Harold Wilson, Jim Callaghan, and Margaret Thatcher.

[[Civil law (common law)]]

CATEGORIES: Law

Civil law is a branch of the law in common law countries. The other branch of common law is criminal law. Civil law is concerned with the duties individuals owe to other people or to their government. This excludes the duty not to commit crimes. The American form of civil justice is considerably different from European systems. Two features stand out, class actions and the awarding of punitive damages in tort cases. Many people in other countries are amazed at the number of civil cases in the United States. Americans sue in a wide variety of cases for compensation and medical expenses that are covered in other countries by national health insurance and government compensation programs.

[[CBGB]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 establishments in New York (state), 2006 disestablishments in the United States, 2000s disestablishments in New York (state), Entertainment venues, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, National Register of Historic Places

CBGB was a New York City music nightclub. The letters "CBGB" stand for country, bluegrass, blues. The club was opened in 1973 by Hilly Kristal. CBGB, soon afterward, became a place where new wave and punk rock bands played. These included Patti Smith Group, Blondie, Ramones and Talking Heads. From the early 1980s onward, CBGB was known for hardcore punk.

One store next to CBGB became the "CBGB Record Canteen", a record shop and café. In the late 1980s, CBGB Record Canteen was changed into an art gallery and second performance space. The name was "CB's 313 Gallery." CB's Gallery was played by artists of milder sounds, such as acoustic rock, folk, jazz or experimental music. On the other side, CBGB had a small cafe and bar in the mid 1990s. The cafe served classic New York pizza.

In October 2006, the original CBGB closed after its final concert. The concert was by Patti Smith. CBGB Radio started on the iHeartRadio platform in 2010. In 2013, its previous building, 315 Bowery, was added to the National Register of Historic Places as part of the Bowery Historic District.

[[2015–16 UEFA Champions League – Group stage]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA Champions League, 2015 in association football

The 2015–16 UEFA Champions League group stage began on 15 September and ended on 9 December 2015. A total of 32 teams competed in group stage to decide the 16 places in the knockout phase of the 2015–16 UEFA Champions League.

[[Wilberforce (cat)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s births, 1988 deaths, Individual cats

Wilberforce  was a cat who lived and worked at 10 Downing Street, the home of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He lived there between October 1973 and 13 November 1987.  His title was "Chief Mouser to the Cabinet Office".

He served under four British Prime Ministers: Edward Heath, Harold Wilson, Jim Callaghan, and Margaret Thatcher. His chief job was to catch mice. While he was alive, he was said to be "the best mouser in Britain" as fit his role.

He retired on 3 April 1987, and was succeeded by Humphrey who was born in 1988, the year Wilberforce died.

[[Delegate]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A delegate someone who is either chosen or elected to vote or act for others. In organizations like the United Nations, each country sends delegates to represent them.

[[Glenwood, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, 1903 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in Illinois

Glenwood is a village in northeastern Illinois, near Chicago. At the 2010 Census, about 8,969 people were living there.

[[Pareidolia]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Pareidolia p parr-i) is a word from Ancient Greek to describe the phenomenon, that the human mind often perceives familiar patterns in a stimulus, even when they are not there. 

Common examples are perceived images of animals, faces, or objects in cloud formations, the "man in the moon", the "moon rabbit", and hidden messages within recorded music played in reverse or at higher- or lower-than-normal speeds.

Pareidolia is a special case of clustering illusion. 

[[Gillette, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wyoming, County seats in Wyoming

Gillette is a city in the U.S. state of Wyoming. It is the county seat of Campbell County.

[[Charles Caldwell Ryrie]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2016 deaths, American theologians, Deaths from pneumonia, Writers from Illinois, Writers from St. Louis, Missouri

Charles Caldwell Ryrie (March 2, 1925 – February 16, 2016) was an American writer and Christian theologian. He served as professor of systematic theology and dean of doctoral studies at Dallas Theological Seminary. He also served as president and professor at what is now Cairn University. 

Ryrie was born in St. Louis, Missouri. He was raised in Alton, Illinois. Ryrie studied at Haverford College and at University of Edinburgh. 

He was the editor of The Ryrie Study Bible by Moody Publishers. It contains more than 10,000 of Ryrie's explanatory notes. First published in 1978, it has sold more than 2 million copies. He was a notable advocate of classic premillennial dispensationalism.

Ryrie died in Dallas, Texas on February 16, 2016 from pneumonia. He was aged 90.

[[Abdul Rashid Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Centenarians, Indian musicians, Indian singers

Abdul Rashid Khan (19 August 1908 – 18 February 2016) was an Indian singer of Hindustani music. He performed khayal, dhrupad, dhamar and thumri.

Khan made several musical compositions. He was also a productive writer and poet. For his writing, he used the name Rasan Piya. He trained many students in his lifetime and became regarded as a "guru" at the ITC Sangeet Research Academy in Kolkata.

Khan died in 18 February 2016 from multiple organ failure. He was aged 107.

[[Alexander Gutman]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Jewish screenwriters, Russian Jews, Russian movie directors, Russian screenwriters, Soviet Jews, Writers from Saint Petersburg

Alexander Ilyich Gutman (Алекса́ндр Ильи́ч Гу́тман; January 29, 1945 – February 17, 2016) was a Russian movie director of Jewish origin. His career began in 1986. Gutman made over 50 documentary movies, 13 of them as director. He won awards at several Russian and international movie festivals. His most famous movie is Journey Back to Youth. 

Gutman was born in St. Petersburg. He graduated from the Leningrad Polytechnical Institute (now known as St. Petersburg State Polytechnic University) (1968) and VGIK (1978). Gutman died in Moscow on February 17, 2016 from heart failure. He was aged 71.

[[Axillary nerve]]

CATEGORIES: Nervous system

The axillary nerve is a nerve in the armpit. It comes from the brachial plexus. It has nerve fibers from the C5 and C6 nerve roots. The axillary nerve goes through the quadrangular space. It is sometimes called the circumflex nerve.

[[Triceps brachii muscle]]

CATEGORIES: Muscles, Limbs and extremities

The triceps brachii muscle is a muscle on the back of the upper arm.  There are three parts that each come from different places at the top of the arm and join together at the elbow. It straightens the arm. The name is Latin for "three-headed muscle in the arm".

[[A Touch of Class (band)]]

CATEGORIES: German musical groups

A Touch of Class (also known as ATC) was a pop group based in Germany. It had four members. They each came from different countries— Joseph "Joey" Murray from New Zealand, Livio Salvi from Italy, Sarah Egglestone from Australia and Tracey Packham from the United Kingdom. The group was active from 1998 to 2003.

They were most popular after the release of their first single, "Around The World (La La La La La)", in 2000. This song was an English version of the song "Pesenka" by Ruki Vverh! It was first released on 9 May 2000. It charted at #1 in Germany for six weeks. It was later a Top 40 hit in the United Kingdom and United States. The song was in a television commercial for General Electric in early 2002. Similar-sounding songs were successful in parts of Europe, but A Touch of Class are mainly remembered for this first hit.

Their first album was Planet Pop. It was released on 6 February 2001 by Sony BMG Music Entertainment and Republic Records. Their second album was Touch The Sky. It was not very successful. The group broke up in mid-2003.

[[List of castles and fortresses in Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Castles, Buildings and structures in Azerbaijan, Lists of buildings, Azerbaijan-related lists

This is a list of castles and fortresses in Azerbaijan.

[[Civil War Journal]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 American television series debuts, 1998 American television series endings

Civil War Journal is an American television series on The History Channel. It was shown from 1993 to 1998. There was only one season.

[[Roaring Spring, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania

Roaring Spring is a borough in Blair County, Pennsylvania, United States. It had 2,585 people living there at the 2010 census. It is part of the Altoona Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Roaring Spring, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Kentucky, Trigg County, Kentucky

Roaring Spring is an unincorporated community in Trigg County, Kentucky, United States.

A post office called Roaring Spring was established in 1849, and operated until 1909. It is named after a nearby cave spring which produced a roar.

[[Roaring Spring]]

Roaring Spring may refer to:

[[Tensor]]

CATEGORIES: Linear algebra, Geometry

A tensor is a mathematical object. Tensors provide a mathematical framework for solving physics problems in areas such as elasticity, fluid mechanics and general relativity. The word tensor comes from the Latin word tendere meaning "to stretch".

A tensor of order zero (zeroth-order tensor) is a scalar (simple number). A tensor of order one (first-order tensor) is a linear map that maps every vector into a scalar. A vector is a tensor of order one. A tensor of order two (second-order tensor) is a linear map that maps every vector into a vector (e.g. a matrix).

[[La Paz, Honduras]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Honduras, 1792 establishments, 1790s establishments in North America

La Paz (la pas) is the capital of the La Paz Department of Honduras. It has a population of 46,264 (2015 est.).

[[Kenton County, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Kenton County, Kentucky, 1840s establishments in Kentucky, 1840 establishments in the United States

Kenton County is a county in Kentucky. Its county seats are Covington and Independence.

Kenton County is included in the Cincinnati-Middletown, OH-KY-IN Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Trigg County, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Trigg County, Kentucky, 1820 establishments in Kentucky

Trigg County is a county in Kentucky. As of the 2010 census, the population was 14,339. Its county seat is Cadiz.

[[Harlan County, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Harlan County, Kentucky, 1810s establishments in Kentucky, 1819 establishments in the United States

Harlan County is a county in Kentucky. As of the 2010 census, the population was 29,278. Its county seat is Harlan.

[[BBC Choice]]

CATEGORIES: BBC television channels, 2003 disestablishments in the United Kingdom

BBC Choice was a television channel owned by the British Broadcasting Corporation. It launched on 23 September 1998 along with the launch of digital television in the UK, there was also a launch promo featuring actress Pauline Quirke. It was replaced on 8 February 2003 by BBC Three.

[[Kenton]]

Kenton may refer to:

[[System of Rice Intensification]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 establishments, Rice, Agriculture

The System of Rice Intensification (SRI) is a way to grow rice. This plan for farming may grow more rice in the same field. It uses less water, takes more work, and uses younger seedlings spaced apart. SRI calls for  hand weeding with special tools. It was started in 1983 by the French Jesuit Father Henri de Laulanié in Madagascar. Full testing and spread of the system throughout the rice growing parts of the world did not happen until some years later with the help of schools like Cornell University.

[[Toulouse School of Economics]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in France, Toulouse, 2006 establishments in France

Toulouse School of Economics (TSE) is a school for the study of economics. The school is in Toulouse, France. It is one of the most famous research and teaching centers of economics in the world. It was created in 2006.

TSE is specialist in the fields of economics. Its President is Jean Tirole, who won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 2014.

[[Jasmine Tookes]]

CATEGORIES: Models from California, 1991 births, Living people

Jasmine Tookes (born February 1, 1991) is an American model.

Tookes was born and raised in Huntington Beach, California.  She did gymnastics for ten years and was active in volleyball and softball before she became a model at about the age of 15. Her mother is a celebrity fashion stylist. Tookes was discovered at one of her mother's showroom appointments.

Tookes is of  mixed ancestry. African, West Indian and her maternal grandmother is Caucasian. She is in a relationship with fellow Calvin Klein model Tobias Sorensen.

Tookes' first commercial ad campaigns were in 2010 for ugg boots and Gap. Before breaking out on the international scene, she booked a Spring 2011 DKNY campaign and a layout in Vogue Italia.

In 2015, she became a Victoria's Secret Angel.

In September 2020, Tookes announced her engagement to her boyfriend of four years Juan David Borrero, director of international markets of Snap Inc and son of doctor Alfredo Borrero Vega, Vice President-elect of Ecuador.

[[Paavo Nurmi]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1973 deaths, Competitors in athletics, Finnish Olympic silver medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Turku

Paavo Johannes Nurmi (13 June 1897 – 2 October 1973) was a Finnish middle- and long-distance runner. He was born in Turku. Nurmi set 22 official world records at distances between 1500 metres and 20 kilometres. He participated in the Olympic Games twelve times where he won nine gold and three silver medals.

[[Co-dependency]]

CATEGORIES: Psychiatry

Co-dependency is a term from psychiatry. In certain cases, people knowing an addict can increase the addiction through their actions. As an example, take a person who is an alcoholic. Because of alcoholism, that person is not as productive as his colleagues at work. Colleagues at work may work more and compensate for the work the alcoholic has not done. A similar case can be made for family members who help finance a dependency.

Someone suffering from codependency will not be able to self-soothe and will rely on their partner in order to meet their own emotional needs. Codependence can cause an irrational fear of rejection and being alone. Codependence can be one-sided, or both partners may suffer from it.

In a codependent relationship, individuals put the other person’s needs before their own, often sacrificing their own integrity and sense of self in the process. Codependency can cause a person to have an overinflated belief that they alone are responsible for affecting the beliefs, thoughts, emotions, and behaviours of those around them.stub

[[Hardin]]

Hardin may refer to:

[[Hardin, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Ohio

Hardin is an unincorporated community in Shelby County, Ohio.

[[Jeffersonville]]

Jeffersonville is the name of several places in the United States:

[[Jefferson County]]

Jefferson County is the name of 26 counties and one parish in the United States:

[[Ravensbrück concentration camp]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 establishments, 1930s establishments in Germany, Nazi concentration camps in Germany

Ravensbrück concentration camp (pronounced "RAW-vins-brook") was a concentration camp for women, run by Nazi Germany during World War II.  It was in northern Germany, near the town of Ravensbrück.

The Schutzstaffel (SS), led by Heinrich Himmler, ran Ravensbrück concentration camp.

In November 1938, Himmler gave the order to start building the camp at Ravensbrück.  By 1939, Ravensbrück was the biggest women's concentration camp in Nazi Germany.

Over time, the Nazis made Ravensbrück much bigger.  By 1944, Ravensbrück had become a complex (a group of many concentration camps).

Between 1939 and 1945, about 153,000 people were prisoners at Ravensbrück.

[[Pantelis Pantelidis]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2016 deaths, Road accident deaths, Greek singers, People from Athens

Pantelis Pantelidis (23 November 1983 – 18 February 2016) was a Greek singer and songwriter. He was born in Athens and grew up in Nea Ionia. He worked in the Greek Navy, but left this job for a musical career. He learned music by himself. He became known from some YouTube videos. He worked with Greek musicians such as Vasilis Karras, Despina Vandi and others. He twice won awards at the MAD Video Music Awards, first in 2013 as the best new artist and secondly in 2015 as the best Greek male singer. 

Pantelidis was killed on February 18, 2016 in a car crash in Athens. He was aged 32.

[[Belinda Nash]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in Virginia, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American historians, Canadian people

Belinda Nash (October 27, 1946 – February 16, 2016) was an American historian, author and activist. She wrote a biography of Grace Sherwood, the last person to be "convicted" by ordeal of being a witch in Virginia. As a result of Nash's work, Sherwood was given a pardon, 300 years after her trial by ordeal.

Nash died in Virginia Beach, Virginia on February 16, 2016 from cancer. She was aged 69.

[[Claude Jeancolas]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, French writers, French historians, French journalists

Claude Jeancolas (1949 – 17 February 2016) was a French writer, art historian and journalist. He was best known for his expertise on Arthur Rimbaud. He was born in Nancy, France. 

Jeancolas died in Paris, France from cancer on 17 February 2016. He was aged 66.

[[Displacement (ship)]]

CATEGORIES: Ships

Displacement or displacement tonnage is the weight of water that a ship pushes aside when it is floating, which in turn is the weight of a ship (and its contents). It is usually applied to naval vessels rather than commercial ones, and is measured when the ship's fuel tanks are full and all stores are aboard.  Merchant vessels use other measures such as net tonnage, gross tonnage, or deadweight tonnage.

[[Tamerlan Aguzarov]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Russian politicians, Civil servants

Tamerlan Kimovich Aguzarov  (Тамерлан Кимович Агузаров; 14 June 1963  – 19 February 2016) was a Russian politician. He was the head of North Ossetia-Alania from June 5, 2015 until his death in February 19, 2016.

Aguzarov died on 19 February 2016 in Moscow from complications of pneumonia. He was aged 52.

[[Bill Daily]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2018 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Des Moines, Iowa, Actors from Chicago

Bill Daily (August 30, 1927 – September 4, 2018) was an American comedian and dramatic actor. He acted in many television sitcoms. He was best known for playing astronaut Roger Healey on I Dream of Jeannie and commercial airline navigator Howard Borden on The Bob Newhart Show.

Daily was born in Des Moines, Iowa. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. Daily died on September 4, 2018 at the age of 91 in his home in Santa Fe, New Mexico.

[[Aleksey Batalov]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2017 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Russian movie actors

Aleksey Vladimirovich Batalov (Алексе́й Влади́мирович Бата́лов; 20 November 1928 – 14 June 2017) was a Soviet and Russian actor. He has been known for his portrayal of noble and positive characters. He was named a People's Artist of the USSR in 1976 and a Hero of Socialist Labour in 1989. He also starred in Mikhail Romm's Nine Days of One Year (1962). In 1967 he was a member of the jury of the 5th Moscow International Film Festival. In 1973 he was a member of the jury at the 8th Moscow International Film Festival.

Batalov died on 14 June 2017 in Moscow from complications of a fall at the age of 88.

[[The Dream Makers II]]

CATEGORIES: Singapore, Chinese language, 2015 television series debuts, Drama television series, 2015 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in Singapore

The Dream Makers II (志在四方II, also The Dream Makers 2 or ZZSF2) is a Singaporean drama television series. It is produced and shown on Mediacorp Channel 8. It is a sequel to the 2013 series The Dream Makers. It began its run from 4 December 2015. There are 32 episodes. It stars Zoe Tay, Li Nanxing, Huang Biren, Jeanette Aw, Rui En, Qi Yuwu, Romeo Tan, Julie Tan, Zhang Zhenhuan, Ian Fang, Chen Meifeng and Damian Lau as the main characters. The show is Channel 8's end-year blockbuster for 2015.

[[Comberton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Cambridgeshire, Civil parishes in Cambridgeshire

Comberton is a village and civil parish in South Cambridgeshire, England. It is about 10 km (6 miles) south-west of the city of Cambridge.

Comberton has a population of about 2,400. It has two churches: an Anglican church dating from the 13th century, and a Baptist church dating from 1861.

Its neighbouring village is Barton.

[[Gamemaster]]

CATEGORIES: Role-playing games

A gamemaster is a person who plans, referees, solves arguments in and otherwise runs a role-playing game with more than one player. They are almost always seen in games where all the players are on the same side, and less often seen in games where the players are against each other. Acting as a gamemaster is sometimes called "Gamemastering" or "GMing" for short.

A gamemaster's job in a traditional role-playing game (where all the players are together in person) is to bring the other players' characters' stories together, control the other characters and monsters, put together places and scenes for the player characters to act in, and solve arguments between players. This basic rule is the same in almost all role-playing games, but some rule sets may need the gamemaster to do other jobs unique to that system.

The role of a gamemaster in an online game is to make sure everyone follows the game's rules and give general customer service. Gamemasters for online games may be players who choose the role like in traditional role-playing games, or they might be workers paid by the company that makes the game.

[[Thomas Bailey Aldrich]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 births, 1907 deaths, People from Portsmouth, New Hampshire, American poets, Writers from New Hampshire, American editors

Thomas Bailey Aldrich (ˈ; November 11, 1836 – March 19, 1907) was an American literary figure. He is best known for the long time he was the editor of The Atlantic, when he published works by Charles Chesnutt and for his poetry, such as "The Unguarded Gates."

[[Eric Brown (pilot)]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2016 deaths, British aviators, British military personnel of World War II, Deaths from pneumonia, People from Edinburgh, Royal Navy officers

Captain Eric Melrose "Winkle" Brown, CBE, DSC, AFC, Hon FRAeS, RN (21 January 1919 – 21 February 2016) was a Scottish Royal Navy officer and test pilot. He flew 487 different types of aircraft, more than anyone else in history. 

He also held the world record for most aircraft carrier landings performed (2,407) and was the Fleet Air Arm's most decorated living pilot. He achieved several "firsts" in naval aviation, including the first landings on an aircraft carrier of a twin-engined aircraft, an aircraft with a tricycle undercarriage and a jet-propelled aircraft.

[[Bruno Zuppiger]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Swiss politicians, Civil servants, People from St. Gallen

Bruno Zuppiger (24 February 1952 – 19 February 2016) was a Swiss management consultant and politician. He was a member of the conservative Swiss People's Party. He served on the Swiss National Council representing the Canton of Zürich. In 1999, he was elected to the National Council. He was chairman of the National Council's Finance Committee and also served on the Security Policy Committee.

Zuppiger was born in St. Gallen, Switzerland. He graduated from the University of St. Gallen and the Zürich Teachers' Seminary in 1976. Zuppiger died in Zürich on 19 February 2016 from cancer. He was aged 63.

[[Samuel Willenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Holocaust survivors, Israeli Jews, Israeli painters, Israeli sculptors, Jewish artists, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Polish Jews

Samuel Willenberg (February 16, 1923 – February 19, 2016) was a Polish-born Israeli prisoner in the Treblinka extermination camp. He was part of its prisoner revolt, and a participant of the Warsaw Uprising. In the uprising, he used the name Igo.

Willenberg was born in Częstochowa, Poland.

After the war he lived in Israel. He received the highest of Poland's orders including Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit. It was awarded by President Lech Kaczyński.

His memoir, titled Revolt in Treblinka, was published in Hebrew, Polish and English between 1986 and 1991. He was a sculptor and painter.

Willenberg died on February 19, 2016 from complications of a stroke in Udim, Israel. He was aged 93. Before his death, he was the last living survivor of Treblinka.

[[Fernando Cardenal]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2016 deaths, Christian theologians, Deaths from heart failure, Government ministers, Jesuits, Nicaraguan politicians

Fernando Cardenal Martínez (26 January 1934 – 20 February 2016) was a Nicaraguan Jesuit and liberation theologian. He served as Minister of Education from 1984 to 1990, during the Sandinista era. His brother, poet Ernesto Cardenal, also a Catholic priest, served as Minister of Culture from 1979 to 1987. He was born in Granada, Nicaragua.

Cardenal died in Managua from heart failure on 20 February 2016. He was aged 82. 

[[Ove Verner Hansen]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2016 deaths, Danish actors, Danish singers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, European opera singers

Ove Verner Hansen (20 July 1932 – 20 February 2016) was a Danish opera singer and actor. He played the character "Bøffen" (or "Biffen" in Norwegian, literally meaning "the steak" in both languages) in several of the Olsen Gang (Olsenbanden) movies. He played a tall large slow-moving henchman, often seen lifting Egon Olsen up over his head, carrying him under one arm, and trying to kill him.

Hansen died in Gentofte, Denmark from a heart attack on 20 February 2016. He was aged 83.

[[Vi Subversa]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2016 deaths, Cancer deaths in London, British guitarists, Singers from London, Musicians from London

Frances Sokolov (20 June 1935 – 19 February 2016), better known by her stage name Vi Subversa, was a British singer and guitarist. She was a member of the anarcho-punk band Poison Girls. She was born in London, England.

Subversa died of cancer at her home in London on 19 February 2016. She was aged 80.

[[Log Cabin Republicans]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 establishments in the United States, LGBT in the United States, Political organizations based in Washington, D.C., United States Republican Party

Log Cabin Republicans (LCR) is an organization in the United States. They do work within the Republican Party. They work for equal rights for LGBT people in the United States. 

On February 15, 2013, the National Board of Directors made Gregory T. Angelo the director.

[[Briggs Initiative]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 in California, LGBT in the United States, United States law, 1970s in law

California Proposition 6, also known as Briggs Initiative, was an initiative on the California state ballot on November 7, 1978. It did not pass. It was sponsored by John Briggs, a conservative state legislator from Orange County. The initiative would have banned homosexuals from working in California public schools.

The San Francisco politician Harvey Milk fought the measure. California Governor Ronald Reagan and President Jimmy Carter were against it. Polls had originally showed support for the initiative leading by a large margin. It was defeated by the LGBT community, conservatives and liberals alike.

[[Hans Posthumus]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Gelderland

Hans Posthumus (10 March 1947 – 15 February 2016) was a Dutch professional footballer. He played as a striker.

Posthumus was born in Harderwijk, Netherlands. He played for VVOG, Wageningen, Feyenoord, Mechelen, Lierse and NEC. While with Lierse he was the top-scorer in the Belgian Pro League during the 1975–76 season. He retired from professional football in October 1978, at the age of 31, due to back pain.

Posthumus died of a stroke at a hospital in Rotterdam on 15 February 2016. He was aged 67.

[[Nando Yosu]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in Spain, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers

Fernando Trío Zabala (8 July 1939 – 20 February 2016), known as Nando Yosu, was a Spanish football midfielder and manager. His long career, as both a player and coach, was mainly associated with Racing de Santander. He played with Racing Santander from 1958 to 1962 and again from 1963 to 1964. He managed Racing Santander from 1977 to 1979, in 1996, 1998 to 1999, in 2005 and in 2006. 

Yosu was born in Mungia, Spain. He retired in 2006 because he had Alzheimer's disease. Yosu died from the disease on 20 February 2016 in Santander, Spain. He was aged 76.

[[CAGE questionnaire]]

CATEGORIES: Addiction, Alcohol drinking habits, Medical tests

The CAGE questionnaire is a set of four questions about a person's drinking habits.  It is commonly used to test adults for alcoholism.

Because it is so short, doctors often start by using the CAGE questionnaire when they suspect that a patient may be an alcoholic.  People can also do the CAGE questionnaire on their own.

"CAGE" is an acronym for the four questions in the test.

[[Badajoz]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Extremadura, Municipalities in Extremadura, Capital cities in Spain

Badajoz (Baajós) is the capital of the Badajoz Province in the autonomous community of Extremadura, Spain. The population in 2011 was 151,565.

A major Napoleonic siege was fought here between Britain and France

[[Essaouira]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Morocco

Essaouira (الصويرة), formerly known as Mogador, is a city in western Morocco on the Atlantic Ocean.

[[Alcohol tolerance]]

CATEGORIES: Alcohol drinking habits

Alcohol tolerance is a special case of drug tolerance: with certain substances, such as alcohol, the body gets used to them. People consume substances such as alcohol, because these substances have certain effects. As the body gets used to the substance, the quantity needed to get the desired effect wil increase.

With certain drugs, the same is true for stopping: directly stopping the drug is dangerous, because of withdrawal symptoms. So the amount of the drug taken has to be reduced in steps, before stopping altogether. There are drugs that can make stopping easier, because they reduce the severity of the withdrawal symptoms.

[[Sonny James]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, American country musicians, American singer-songwriters, Singers from Alabama, Musicians from Alabama, Writers from Alabama

James Hugh Loden (May 1, 1929spaced ndashFebruary 22, 2016), known professionally as Sonny James, was an American country music singer and songwriter. He was best known for his 1957 hit, "Young Love". 

James had 72 country and pop charted releases from 1953 to 1983, including an unprecedented five-year streak of 16 straight Billboard #1 singles among his 26 #1 hits. Twenty-one of his albums reached the country top ten from 1964 to 1976. In May 2007 Sonny, accompanied by his Southern Gentlemen, walked the red carpet and were inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame.

James died on February 22, 2016 in Nashville, Tennessee at the age of 86.

[[Cyclone Winston]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 disasters, 2016 in weather, February 2016 events, Fiji, Niue, Tonga, Tropical cyclones in Oceania, Vanuatu

Severe Tropical Cyclone Winston was a tropical cyclone in February 2016. It was the first recorded Category 5 storm to hit Fiji. It was also one of the strongest tropical cyclones in the Southern Hemisphere. Before the storm got to Fiji, many shelters were opened. A curfew was called across the country on 20 February.

The cyclone struck Fiji as a Category 5 tropical cyclone. Winston caused a lot of damage in the islands. It killed twenty-eight people.

In advance of the storm's arrival in Fiji, numerous shelters were opened, and a nationwide curfew was instituted during the evening of 20 February. Striking Fiji at Category 5 intensity on 20 February, Winston inflicted extensive damage on many islands and killed 44 people. Communications were temporarily lost with at least six islands, with some remaining isolated more than two days after the storm's passage. A total of 40,000 homes were damaged or destroyed and approximately 350,000 people—roughly 40 percent of Fiji's population—were significantly impacted by the storm. Total damage from Winston amounted to FJ$2.98 billion (US$1.4 billion). The nation's government declared a state of emergency on 20 February, which remained in place for 60 days. Immediately following the cyclone, the governments of Australia and New Zealand provided logistical support and relief packages. In the following weeks, a coalition of international support, including intergovernmental agencies, brought tens of millions of dollars in aid and hundreds of tons of supplies to residents in Fiji.

[[María Luisa Alcalá]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Actors from Mexico City

María Luisa Alcalá (March 26, 1943 – February 21, 2016), also known as Ma. Luisa Alcalá, was a Mexican actress. She was known for her roles as Socorrito in Esmeralda, Filomena in La usurpadora and Malicha in El Chavo del Ocho. Alcalá was born in Mexico City.

Alcalá died in her sleep at her home in Mexico City from a heart attack on February 21, 2016. She was aged 72.

[[Hans Reffert]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2016 deaths, German composers, German musicians, People from Ludwigshafen

Hans Reffert (19 July 1946 – 21 February 2016) was a German musician and composer. He was best known for his work with Guru Guru, Reffert was involved with a number of ensembles, including Flute & Voice, Zauberfinger, Sanfte Liebe and Schrammel & Slide. 

Reffert studied guitar with Sigi Schwab and flute and composition in Mannheim. He also created commissioned works for the National Theatre Mannheim and other theaters, as well as for cinema and television productions.

Reffert died in Mannheim on 21 February 2016. He was aged 69.

[[Yochanan Sofer]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Israeli activists, Israeli rabbis, Holocaust survivors, Hungarian Jews, Jewish activists, Naturalized citizens of Israel

Yochanan Sofer (1923 – February 22, 2016) was a Hungarian-born Israeli religious official and activist. He was the Rebbe of the Erlau dynasty. He was born in Eger, Hungary. After surviving the Holocaust, he continued their legacy by founding a yeshiva and a movement in their name, first in Hungary and then a few years later in Jerusalem.

Sofer died in Jerusalem on February 22, 2016 from pneumonia. He was aged 93.

[[Gil Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from Birmingham, Alabama, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, American movie actors, American police officers, Deaths from pneumonia, Politicians from Birmingham, Alabama, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan

Gilbert R. "Gil" Hill (November 5, 1931 – February 29, 2016) was an American civil servant and movie actor. He was the former President of the Detroit City Council. He was also a corruptpolice officer in Detroit and part-time actor. He was known for his roles in the Beverly Hills Cop movie franchise.

Hill died on February 29, 2016 at DMC Sinai-Grace Hospital in Detroit after a long battle with pneumonia. He was aged 84.

[[Cara McCollum]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, 2016 deaths, Road accident deaths in New Jersey, American television presenters, American journalists, American models, Writers from Arkansas

Cara McCollum (February 6, 1992 – February 22, 2016) was an American journalist. She was a news presenter for SNJ Today, which she joined in July 2015. She was Miss New Jersey 2013 and competed for the Miss America 2014 title in September 2013. She was born in Forrest City, Arkansas.

McCollum died at the age of 24 on February 22, 2016, in Camden, New Jersey. She died because of injuries she got a week earlier from a car accident.

[[Toyota Avalon]]

CATEGORIES: Toyota automobiles

The 'Toyota Avalon is a car made by Toyota. It is a full-size car with four doors. As of 2013, the Toyota Avalon is available in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, South Korea, and the Middle East. It is named after Avalon, a legendary island from Celtic legends.

The car was first introduced as a 1995 model. It has sold over 1 million copies since it was introduced.

[[Asha Patil]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2016 deaths, Indian movie actors, People from Mumbai

Asha Patil (1936 – 18 January 2016) was an Indian actress of Marathi movies, television and theatre. She was regarded as being one of the best stage and movie actresses of her time. Asha Patil was mostly known for portraying character roles of the Marathi Mother.

[[All Night Long (1981 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 comedy movies, American comedy movies

All Night Long is a 1981 comedy movie starring Barbra Streisand, Gene Hackman, Diane Ladd, Dennis Quaid, Kevin Dobson, and William Daniels. It was written by W. D. Richter and directed by Jean-Claude Tramont.

[[No Fixed Address]]

CATEGORIES: Indigenous Australian musicians, Australian rock bands, Musical groups established in 1979

No Fixed Address is an Australian Aboriginal reggae rock band. It formed in 1979 in North Adelaide. The band members came from an Aboriginal mission in Ceduna. Bart Willoughby is the lead singer and played drums. Ricky Harrison plays rhythm guitar and was the band's main songwriter. Leslie Lovegrove Freeman is the lead guitarist. John Miller plays bass guitar. All the original members were related through family ties.

[[CRAFFT Screening Test]]

CATEGORIES: Alcohol drinking habits, Illegal drugs, Medical tests

The CRAFFT Screening Test is a short test for alcohol and drug problems in teenagers.  This test has two parts.  "CRAFFT" is an acronym for the six questions in the second part of the test.

A doctor or counselor can give the CRAFFT Screening Test to see if a teenager might have an alcohol or drug problem.  Teenagers can also take the test themselves.

[[Conosa]]

CATEGORIES: Protozoa

The Conosa is one of three subphyla in the Amoebozoa. It is subdivided into two infraphyla – the Mycetozoa and the Archamoebae.

Conosa includes the species Dictyostelium discoideum and Entamoeba histolytica, among others.

About 2000 species are known, and probably there are many more. Because these cells have few visible characteristics, they do look rather alike: "they exhibit few morphological traits that can be used as taxonomic characters". As their molecular biology becomes known, many species may get split.

[[Infraphylum]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy

An infraphylum is a rank in the Linnaean taxonomy of biological groups. Normally the ranks go phylum > class > order etc. However, sometimes extra steps are needed. If so, an infraphylum ranks immediately below a subphylum, and above a class.

[[Archamoebae]]

CATEGORIES: Protozoa

The Archamoebae are an important group of amoebae. They are unusual among protists because they have no mitochondria.  

The group includes many genera which are internal parasites or commensals of animals: for example Entamoeba and Endolimax. Some are human pathogens, causing diseases such as amoebic dysentery. Other genera of archamoebae live in freshwater habitats, and have flagella.  Most have a single nucleus and flagellum, but the giant amoeba Pelomyxa has many of each.

Analysis of 100 genes shows that the Archamoebae are part of the Amoebozoa which have lost their mitochondria. They are close relatives of the slime moulds. Parasitic and commensal forms like Entamoeba and Endolimax developed separately from free-living ancestors.

[[Intracranial hemorrhage]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders of the brain

An intracranial hemorrhage is bleeding in the brain.  ("Intracranial" means "inside the skull"; "hemorrhage" means "dangerous bleeding").  The most dangerous type of stroke, a hemorrhagic stroke, is a type of intracranial hemorrhage.  It is a bleed in the brain that happens when the brain has not been injured.

When blood vessels in the brain break or are injured, they bleed.  Bleeding in the brain is very dangerous, because if enough blood builds up, the blood can squeeze or crush the brain.  It can also make it impossible for oxygen to get past the blood to parts of the brain.  Without oxygen, these parts of the brain will die.

[[Hardin County, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Hardin County, Kentucky, 1792 establishments in Kentucky

Hardin County is a county in the U.S. state of Kentucky. Its county seat is at Elizabethtown. 

The county was formed in 1792.

[[Cuiba language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Colombia, Venezuela

Cuiba is a Guahiban language spoken in Colombia and Venezuela. There are 2,300 people who speak it in Colombia and 650 in Venezuela.  More than half of Cuiba speakers do not speak any other language. In Colombia the literacy rate among Cuiba speakers is 45%.

[[Baure language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Bolivia

Bauré is an Arawakan language native to Bolivia. The language is nearly extinct. It is spoken by only 40 of the thousand Baure people. These people live in the Beni Department northwest of Magdalena, Bolivia. Some parts of the Bible have been translated into Baure. Most Baure people now speak Spanish.

Baure has an active–stative syntax.

[[Wesley A. Clark]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, American computer scientists, Scientists from New Haven, Connecticut

Wesley Allison Clark (April 27, 1927 – February 22, 2016) was an American computer designer. He created the LINC computer, which was the first mini-computer and shares with a number of other computers (such as the PDP-1) the claim to be the inspiration for the personal computer.

[[Grant]]

Grant may refer to:

[[Grant County]]

Grant County may refer to:

In the United States

[[Grant County, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Grant County, Kentucky, 1820 establishments in Kentucky

Grant County is a county in Kentucky. As of the 2010 census, the population was 24,662. Its county seat is Williamstown.

[[LaRue County, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: LaRue County, Kentucky, 1840s establishments in Kentucky, 1843 establishments in the United States

LaRue County is a county in Kentucky. As of the 2010 census, the population was 14,193. Its county seat is Hodgenville, a city best known as the birthplace of United States President Abraham Lincoln.

[[Scott County]]

Scott County is the name of eleven counties in the United States:

[[Scott County, Kentucky]]

CATEGORIES: Scott County, Kentucky, 1792 establishments in Kentucky

Scott County is a county in the U.S. state of Kentucky. As of the 2010 census, the population was 47,173. Its county seat is Georgetown.

[[Scott County, Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Scott County, Arkansas, 1833 establishments in Arkansas Territory

Scott County is a county of the U.S. state of Arkansas. As of the 2010 census, the population was 11,233. The county seat is Waldron.

[[Sebastian County, Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Sebastian County, Arkansas, 1850s establishments in Arkansas, 1851 establishments in the United States

Sebastian County is a county of the U.S. state of Arkansas. As of the 2010 census, the population was 125,744, making it the fourth-most populous county in Arkansas. The county has two county seats, Greenwood and Fort Smith.

[[Holocaust victims]]

CATEGORIES: The Holocaust

During The Holocaust, millions of people died or were killed in Nazi Germany.  These Holocaust victims included about six million Jewish people.  They also included five million of people who were not Jewish, mainly Poles, Sinti and Roma.

Holocaust victims died in many ways.  Millions were murdered by the Nazis, especially in concentration camps and extermination camps (death camps).  Many others died in camps and ghettoes from diseases, starvation, and freezing to death, caused by the terrible living conditions.  Others in areas that Nazi Germany took over died from famine and other causes.

When all these people are added up, historians estimate that between 19 million and 22 million people died during The Holocaust.  Holocaust victims came from many different countries, religions, ethnic groups, and cultures.  The Nazis wanted to kill them for many different reasons.

