[[Magan (civilization)]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history, Middle East

Magan (also Makkan) was an ancient nation. It is mentioned in Sumerian cuneiform texts of around 2300 BC. It lasted to 550 BC as a source of copper and diorite for Mesopotamia.

[[Phanek]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei culture, Meitei clothing

Phanek (Fanek) is a traditional Meitei Manipuri sarong, indigenously worn by womenfolk, predominantly in Manipur (Kangleipak).

One ancient design is the lotus and the bee bordering the phanek fabric.

The Phanek Mayek Naibi, one of the most popular phaneks, is one such lower garment, which has stripes at its bottom. It is worn when one goes to office works and in marriage ceremonies. It is worn like a wraparound. Its bottom is adorned with heavy embroidery in different designs.

According to Meitei culture, the phaneks are untouchable to the menfolk.

[[Folsom Lake College]]

CATEGORIES: Sacramento County, California

Folsom Lake College is a public community college in Folsom, California. It is part of the California Community Colleges system and the Los Rios Community College District. It was opened in 2004 and has two educational centers: The El Dorado Center in Placerville, California, and the Rancho Cordova Center in Rancho Cordova, California.

It also has a Visual Performing Arts Center which is one of the most well known centers of art, music, and entertainment in the Sacramento area. The president is Whitney Yamamura.

[[Machiko Hasegawa]]

Machiko Hasegawa (長谷川 町子, January 30, 1920 – May 27, 1992) was a Japanese manga artistand one of the first female manga artists.

[[Sazae-san]]

Sazae-san (Japanese: サザエさん) is a Japanese yonkoma manga series written and illustrated by Machiko Hasegawa. It was a popular postwar comic strip depicting the life of Sazae-san, a fictional Japanese housewife.

[[Los Rios Community College District]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 establishments in California

Los Rios Community College District is a public community college district headquartered in Sacramento, California. It has four colleges and several education centers serving approximately 70,000 students. The chancellor is Brian King. 

[[Ash Fak]]

Ashfak is an entrepreneur and motivational speaker.

[[Solution (disambiguation)]]

Solution can be:

[[Anna Akhmatova]]

CATEGORIES: Russian poets

Anna Akhmatova was a Russian poet. In 1965 she was on the shortlist for the Nobel Prize, and she got the second-most (three) nominations for the award the following year.

She was born Anna Andreyevna Gorenko on (23 June.

She died of heart failure in 1966.

She wrote Requiem (1935–40), her tragic masterpiece about the the terror of the government of Joseph Stalin.

[[Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation]]

CATEGORIES: Mexico

The Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation (Suprema Corte de Justicia de la Nación (SCJN) is the Mexican federal high court and in charge of the judiciary part of the Mexican Federal Government. It has eleven magistrates, known as ministers of the court.

Judges of the SCJN are appointed for 15 years. Members are confirmed by the Senate and are nominated by the President of the Republic.

[[Crimson Peak]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 romance movies, American romance movies, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by Guillermo del Toro

Crimson Peak is a 2015  gothic romance movie directed by Guillermo del Toro and written by del Toro and Matthew Robbins. 

The movie stars Mia Wasikowska, Tom Hiddleston, Jessica Chastain, Charlie Hunnam, and Jim Beaver. 

[[Blue Peter]]

CATEGORIES: British children's television series

Blue Peter is a British children's television show created by John Hunter Blair. Blue Peter is the longest-running children's TV show in the world, having been broadcast since October 1958. It is currently shown live on the CBBC television channel on Thursdays.

[[Nele Hertling]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, People from Berlin, German theatre directors

Nele Hertling née Schröder (born 23 February 1934) is a German theatre manager. She worked for the Academy of Arts, Berlin, from 1962. She also founded the Pantomime-Musik-Tanz-Theater in 1970 and the Tanz im August festival in 1988. She managed the program for Berlin as the European City of Culture.

[[Todd Scully]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, American track and field athletes, Sportspeople from New Jersey, People from Princeton, New Jersey

Clark Todd Scully (September 13, 1948 – September 6, 2021) was an American racewalker. He competed in the men's 20 kilometres walk at the 1976 Summer Olympics. He was born in Princeton, New Jersey.

Scully died on September 6, 2021 in a car crash in Big Island, Virginia at the age of 72.

[[Big Island, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Virginia

Big Island is a census-designated place (CDP) in northern Bedford County, Virginia, United States. The population as of the 2010 Census was 303.

[[Gérard Farison]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, French footballers, French football managers

Gérard Farison (15 March 1944 – 8 September 2021) was a French footballer. He played as a defender. Farison was born in Saint-Étienne, France. His playing career lasted from 1968 until 1983. He played for the national team in 1976.

Farison died on 8 September 2021 in Saint-Raphaël, France at the age of 77.

[[Franco Graziosi]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, Italian voice actors

Franco Graziosi (10 July 1929 – 8 September 2021) was an Italian actor. He was born in Macerata, Italy. He began his career in 1960. He was best known for his roles in The Terrorist, Duck, You Sucker! and We Have a Pope.

Graziosi died on 8 September 2021 in Rome at the age of 92.

[[Uno Loop]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Competitors in athletics, Estonian sportspeople, Estonian educators, Movie actors, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease

[[Keila]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Estonia

Keila (Kegel) is a town and an urban municipality in Harju County in north-western Estonia. It is about 25 km southwest of Tallinn.

[[Camarines Sur]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines

Camarines Sur (Habagatan na Camarines; Timog Camarines) is a province in the Philippines located in the Bicol Region in Luzon. Its capital is Pili.

[[Pili, Camarines Sur]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Philippines

name, officially the official_name (Banwaan kan Pili, Rinconada Bikol: Banwāan ka Pili, Bayan ng Pili) is a city of the Philippines and capital of the province of Camarines Sur.

[[Jordi Rebellón]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors, Spanish stage actors, Spanish voice actors, Actors from Madrid, People from Barcelona

Jordi Rebellón López (15 February 1957 – 8 September 2021) was a Spanish actor. He was known for his role as Rodolfo Vilches in popular television series Hospital Central. Rebellón was born in Barcelona, Spain. His career began in 1988.

Rebellón died on 8 September 2021 in Madrid, Spain of a stroke, aged 64.

[[Luis Villafuerte]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Filipino politicians

Luis Robredo Villafuerte Sr. (August 29, 1935 – September 8, 2021) was a Filipino politician. She was Governor of Camarines Sur from 1986 until 1992 and again from 1995 until 2004. He was a member of the House of Representatives from 2004 to 2013. He was also the Minister of Trade from 1979 until 1981. Villafuerte was born in Taguig, Philippines.

Villafuerte died on September 8, 2021 in Taguig at the age of 86.

[[Yevgeny Zinichev]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2021 deaths, People from Saint Petersburg, Russian generals

Yevgeny Nikolayevich Zinichev (Russian: Евге́ний Никола́евич Зи́ничев; 18 August 1966 – 8 September 2021) was a Russian politician and military officer. He was the Minister of Emergency Situations from 2018 until his death. He was also a member of the Security Council of Russia. In 2016, he was the acting Governor of Kaliningrad Oblast. He was ranked General of the Army. Zinichev was born in Leningrad, Soviet Union.

Zinichev died on 8 September 2021 in Norilsk, Russia after accidentally falling of a cliff at the age of 55.

[[Enugu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nigeria

Enugu (Ig Enugu.ogg ay; Énugwú) is the capital of Enugu State in Nigeria. It is located in southeastern Nigeria. The city had a population of 722,664 in 2006.

[[Committee for Skeptical Inquiry]]

The Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal or CSICOP is an organization formed to encourage open minded, critical investigation of paranormal and fringe science claims from a responsible, scientific point of view.

[[Proton Bus Simuator]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 video games, Bus simulation video games, Bus Simulator, Android (operating system) games, Single-player video games, Video games developed in Brazil, Windows games

Proton Bus Simuator is a bus simulator game developed by Marcos Elias Picão for Microsoft Windows and Android. It is powered by Unity and was released in 2017. Another version, from the same series, is titled Proton Bus Road, coach bus version, in 2018. In September 2021, it was downloaded 1 million times.

[[Khudei]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei culture, Meitei clothing

Khudei or Khoodei (Khutei, Khootei) is a daily traditional Meitei Manipuri loincloth wear, worn by menfolk. It is also used as a cotton towel in some cases. It is a wraparound linen cloth.

This short woven cloth covers the body from the waist upto the knee portion. Generally, it measures around 3' x 8'.

Sometimes, it is folded and carried on the shoulders by aged men. It is worn like in the dhoti style.

[[Star Pravah]]

CATEGORIES: Television channels, Companies of India, 2008 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in India

Star Pravah is an Indian pay television GEC that was launched on 24 November 2008 by Star India and wholly owned by The Walt Disney Company India. On 1 May 2016, the high-definition feed of the channel named Star Pravah HD was launched.

[[Wooden toy train]]

CATEGORIES: Toys, Trains

A wooden toy train is a toy train that runs on a wooden track system with grooves to guide the wheels of the rolling stock.cn While the trains, tracks and scenery accessories are made mainly of wood, the engines and cars connect to each other using metal hooks or small magnets, and some use plastic wheels mounted on metal axles. Some trains are made to resemble anthropomorphical, fictional, and prototypical railroad equipment.

Wooden toy train have sets of usually rails, bridges, tunnels, buildings rail stations, level crossings, trees, and more.

There are many manufactors of wooden toy trains, such as BRIO, IKEA, Micki, and Melissa & Doug.

[[Ventray]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Canada, Home appliances

Ventray is a Canadian cookware manufacturer and retailer based in Markham, Ontario. The company is best known for its high-quality, innovative tools and kitchen appliances such as juicers, blenders, stand mixers, and other accessories. 

[[Lanmei Thanbi]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei folklore, Meitei mythology

Lanmei Thanbi (Lanmei Thanpi) or Langmei Thanbi (Langmei Thanpi) is a spirit that appeared in the form of a light flickering over the marshes in Meitei mythology and folklore of Ancient Manipur (Antique Kangleipak). Legend says that it leads people to astray if it chases them. It is sometimes regarded as parallel to the Will o' the wisp, Jack-o'-lantern and Ignis Fatuus of the European folklore. 

In ancient times, people used to say:

"Lanmei Thanbi toi toi! 

Hangen Poura kit!" 

It is roughly translated as:

"Come Lanmei Thanbi, come, if you dare. We will nab you with hangen (bamboo skeleton used for stretching fishing nets) and poura (bamboo pole on which hangen is attached or tied)."

[[Phyllomedusa coelestis]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The starry leaf frog (Phyllomedusa coelestis) is a frog that lives in Peru and Colombia.  Scientists think it may live in many more places than we think.  Scientists have seen this frog between 200 and 1000 meters above sea level.

This frog is 5.3 to 6.5 cm long from nose to rear end. This frog is green in color with some white or orange spots.  Its belly is orange.  The pupils in its eyes go up and down and open side to side.  It has small disks on its toes for climbing.

People usually see this frog at night.  It does not live near ponds.  Most of the frogs scientists have seen were in secondary forest many streams and dense undergrowth: There were many bushes and other small plants under the trees.  Scientists have only seen the female frog lay eggs one time.  She laid them in a folded leaf hanging over the water. 

[[Medusa with the Head of Perseus]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Statues, Feminism

Medusa with the Head of Perseus is a statue or sculpture.  Argentine artist Luciano Garbati made it in 2008.  It is famous because people in the #MeToo Movement talked about it.  The media called the statue an "icon of justice" for people who survived sexual assault. That happened several years after the statue was made.

[[Zhiar Ali]]

CATEGORIES: Kurdish musicians, Kurdish singer-songwriters, Kurdish activists, LGBT rights activists from Iraq, Animal rights activists, Kurdish journalists

Zhiar Ali is a Kurdish person from Iraq who is a human rights activist, animal rights activist and journalist based in Sulaymaniyah. He is known for his work for LGBT rights in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Ali was the former media and communications officer at Rasan, he later founded Yeksani, a movement advocating for LGBT rights in the Iraqi Kurdistan. He had also co-founded the first pro-vegan animal rights organization Kurdistan Vegans. He has freelanced for news organizations, focusing on music journalism and political and social issues.

Ali was attacked by the media in a campaign, the campaign was bigger and was against the LGBT community in 2020. After these attacks, he was threatened with murder and assault. The attacks started happening more after Ali did a Global Pride speech on June 27, 2020, organized by InterPride.

He criticized Asayish and the Kurdistan Regional Government for an operation which detained LGBT people in Sulaymaniyah. The campaign took place after Asaiysh (local security forces) thought all gay people are sex workers, Ali tried talk about this mistake in a Middle East Eye interview. Denying that all members of the LGBT community in the Kurdistan region were sex workers, he blamed the government for forcing some into sex work and said that "prostitution is the last choice to earn a living".

[[Mithali Raj]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births

Mithali Dorai Raj (born 3 December 1982) is an Indian cricketer and the Test and ODI captain of women's national cricket team. She is a right-handed opening batswoman and sometimes right-arm leg break bowler. Raj is the highest run-scorer in women’s international cricket.

She is the highest run-scorer in women's international cricket and the only female cricketer to surpass the 7,000 run mark in Women's One Day International matches. she is the first player to score seven consecutive 50s in ODIs. Raj also holds the record for most half-centuries in WODIs. In June 2018 during the 2018 Women's Twenty20 Asia Cup, she became the first player from India to score 2000 runs in T20Is, and also became the first woman cricketer to reach 2002 WT20I runs.

In 2005, she became the captain of the side. Raj is the only player (female) to have captained India in more than one ICC ODI World Cup final, doing so twice in 2005 and 2017. On 1 February 2019, during India's series against New Zealand Women, Raj became the first woman to play in 200 ODI matches. In September 2019, she announced her retirement from T20Is to focus on ODI cricket. In 2019, she became the first woman to complete 20 years in international cricket.

She is the recipient of several national and international awards, including the Wisden Leading Woman Cricketer in the World in 2017, Arjuna Award in 2003, and the Padma Shri in 2015, both by the Government of India.

In July 2021, in the third WODI match against England, Raj became the leading run-scorer in women's international cricket. She went past Charlotte Edwards' previous record of 10,273 runs.

[[David Ansah Opoku]]

CATEGORIES: Pages created with the Article Wizard from 2021

Davis Ansah Opoku is a Ghanaian politician, a member of Parliament for Mpraeso Constituency in the Eastern Region of Ghana. He serves as the Deputy Ranking Member of the Public Accounts Committee and a member of the works & Housing Committee of Parliament

[[Jacquie O'Sullivan]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Singers from London

Jacquie O'Sullivan (born 7 August 1960) is an English singer who is a member of Shillelagh Sisters and Bananarama.

[[Gosho Aoyama]]

Gosho Aoyama is a Japanese manga artist best known for his manga series Detective Conan (1994–present), known as Case Closed in some English-speaking countries. As of 2017, his various manga series had a combined 200 million copies in print worldwide.

[[Siobhan Fahey]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Irish singer-songwriters, Living people

Siobhan Marie Fahey (born 10 September 1958) is an Irish singer and songwriter who is a member of Shakespear's Sister and Bananarama.

[[Sara Dallin]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, English singers

Sarah Elizabeth Dallin (born 17 December 1961) is an English singer who is a member of Bananarama.

[[Keren Woodward]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, English singer-songwriters, Living people

Keren Jane Woodward (born 2 April 1961) is an English singer and songwriter who is a member of Bananarama.

[[Dale Bozzio]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, American singers

Dale Frances Bozzio (neé Consalvi; born March 2 1955) is an American vocalist who is a member of Missing Persons.

[[List of LGBT firsts by year]]

CATEGORIES: History, LGBT

This is the list of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) firsts by year

[[Alimony]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Marriage

Alimony is the idea that two people who are married are responsible for each other: This also means that if they separate or get divorced, the financially stronger partner has to pay a sum of money to the financially weaker partner. 

The origin (or etymology) of the term goes back to Latin, alimentum (which simply means food). 

[[Go, Dog. Go! (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional dogs, Canadian children's television series, American children's television series, 2020s animated television series, American animated television series, Canadian animated television series, English-language television programs

Go, Dog. Go! is an Canadian-American animated television series developed by Adam Peltzman. in 2021 for the Netflix.

[[Michael Constantine]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, Emmy Award winning actors, Satellite Award winners, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Pennsylvania

Michael Constantine (born Gus Efstratiou (Ευστρατίου); May 22, 1927 – August 31, 2021) was an American actor. He was known for his role as Kostas "Gus" Portokalos in the movie My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002). He was also known for playing Principal Seymour Kaufman, on ABC's comedy-drama, Room 222, for which he won the Primetime Emmy Award in 1970.

Constantine died at his home in Reading, Pennsylvania on August 31, 2021, at age 94.

[[Tangerang prison fire]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 disasters, 2021 in Asia, 2020s disasters in Asia, 2020s in Indonesia, Banten, Building and structure fires in Asia, Disasters in Indonesia, History of Java, September 2021 events

The Tangerang prison fire was a fire in an overcrowded prison block in the city of Tangerang, Banten, Indonesia, in Greater Jakarta. The fire happened on 8 September 2021 in sector C of the Tangerang prison. It killed 44 inmates and injuring 77 others. This was the deadliest fire in Indonesia since the 2017 Tangerang fireworks disaster, which killed at least 49 people.

[[The Magnetic Fields]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 establishments, American pop music groups

The Magnetic Fields (named after the André Breton/Philippe Soupault novel Les Champs Magnétiques) are an American band founded and led by Stephin Merritt. 

The band released their debut single "100,000 Fireflies" in 1991.

[[Robert P. Hollenbeck]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from New Jersey, US Democratic Party politicians

Robert P. Hollenbeck Sr. (November 5, 1931 – September 5, 2021) was an American Democratic Party politician. He was a member of the New Jersey General Assembly from 1974 until 1986. Hollenbeck was born in Carlstadt, New Jersey. He was a member of the Democratic Party.

Hollenbeck died on September 5, 2021 in Barnegat Township, New Jersey at the age of 89.

[[Carlstadt, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in New Jersey

Carlstadt is a borough in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, the borough's population was 6,127.

[[Barnegat Township, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey, Ocean County, New Jersey

Barnegat Township is a township in Ocean County, New Jersey, United States.  As of the 2010 United States Census the township's population was 20,936.

[[Betty Karnette]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Kentucky, Politicians from California, People from Long Beach, California, US Democratic Party politicians

Betty Karnette (September 13, 1931 – September 8, 2021) was an American politician. She was a member of the  California State Assembly 1992 to 1994 and from 2004 to 2008 and in the California State Senate from 1996 to 2004. She was born in Democratic Party. Karnette was born in Paducah, Kentucky.

Karnette died on September 8, 2021 in Long Beach, California just five days before her 90th birthday.

[[Dietmar Lorenz]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, German Olympic gold medalists, German Olympic bronze medalists, Judoka

Dietmar Lorenz (23 September 1950 – 8 September 2021) was an East German judoka. He competed for SC Dynamo Hoppegarten under the Sportvereinigung Dynamo. He was born in Schleiz, Thuringia. Lorenz won a gold and bronze medal at the 1980 Summer Olympics.

Lorenz died on 8 September 2021, aged 70.

[[Aleksandr Melnik]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2021 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Russian movie directors, Russian movie producers, Russian screenwriters

Aleksandr Vladimirovich Melnik (Александр Владимирович Мельник; 11 June 1958 – 8 September 2021) was a Russian movie director. His best known works were Terra Nova (2008) and Territory (2015).

Melnik died after slipping and falling at the Kitabo-Oron waterfall near Norilsk, Russia on 8 September 2021 at the age of 63. Head of the Ministry of Emergency Situations Yevgeny Zinichev tried to rescue Melnik, however Zinichev also fell to his death.

[[Art Metrano]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City, Comedians from New York City, Deaths from natural causes in the United States

Arthur Metrano (September 22, 1936 – September 8, 2021) was an American actor and comedian. He was best known for his role as Lt./Capt./Cmdt. Mauser in Police Academy 2 and Police Academy 3. Metrano was born in New York City. His career began in 1961 and he retired in 2008.

On September 8, 2021, Metrano died at his home in Aventura, Florida of natural causes, aged 84.

[[Ludovico Vico]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, Italian politicians

Ludovico Vico (11 February 1952 – 8 September 2021) was an Italian politician. He was born in Taranto, Italy. He was a member of the Italian Communist Party. He was a member of the Chamber of Deputies of Italy from 2006 until 2013 and again from 2015 until 2018.

Vico died on 8 September 2021 in Manduria, Italy at the age of 69.

[[Manduria]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Apulia

Manduria is a city and comune of Apulia, Italy, in the province of Taranto. About 32,000  people lived here in 2013. It is located 35 east of Taranto.

[[Urbain Braems]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Belgian football managers, Belgian footballers

Urbain Braems (10 November 1933 – 9 September 2021) was a Belgian footballer and manager. He played for K.S.V. Sottegem, K.R.C. Mechelen, Club Brugge and Daring Club Bruxelles. He managed Cercle Brugge, Royal Antwerp, Anderlecht, Beveren, Lokeren, Standard de Liège, Panionios G.S.S. and Trabzonspor. Braems was born in Zottegem, Belgium.

[[Timothy Colman]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, British businesspeople, People from Norfolk

Sir Timothy James Alan Colman GBR (19 September 1929 – 9 September 2021) was a British businessman. He was the Lord Lieutenant of Norfolk from 1978 until 2004. Colman was born in Henstead, Norfolk, England. 

Colman died on 9 September 2021, at the age of 91.

[[Marian Duś]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Roman Catholic bishops, Polish Roman Catholics

Marian Duś (25 June 1938 – 9 September 2021) was a Polish Roman Catholic Bishop. He was the Auxiliary Bishop of Warsaw from 1986 until 2013. In 2013, he became Auxiliary Bishop Emeritus of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Warsaw. Duś was born in Róża, Poland.

Duś died on 9 September 2021 in Warsaw at the age of 83.

[[Caspar Einem]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, Austrian politicians, Austrian businesspeople

Caspar Einem (6 May 1948 – 9 September 2021) was an Austrian politician and businessman. He was a board member of Jetalliance. Einem was born in Salzburg, Austria. He was a member of the Social Democratic Party. Einem was the Minister of the Interior from 1995 until 1997. From 2000 until 2007, he was a member of the National Council.

Einem died on 9 September 2021 in Vienna, Austria at the age of 73.

[[Academia Brasileira de Letras]]

CATEGORIES: Brazil

Academia Brasileira de Letras (ABL) (akadeˈmiɐ bɾaziˈlejɾɐ d(ʒ)i ˈletɾɐs English: Brazilian Academy of Letters) is a Brazilian literary non-profit society. It was created in 1897 by a group of 40 writers and poets.

[[Tarcísio Padilha]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Brazilian writers, Philosophers, People from Rio de Janeiro, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil

Tarcísio Meirelles Padilha (17 April 1928 – 9 September 2021) was a Brazilian philosopher. He was Chair of the Brazilian Academy of Letters from 2000 until 2001. He was born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In 1997, he was elected a member of the academy. 

Padilha died on 9 September 2021 in Rio de Janeiro from COVID-19 at the age of 93.

[[Danilo Popivoda]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2021 deaths, Slovenian football managers, Slovenian footballers, Yugoslavian sportspeople

Danilo Popivoda (Данило Попивода; 1 May 1947 – 9 September 2021) was a Slovenian footballer and manager. He played for the Yugoslavia national team twenty times between 1972 until 1977. He played for the team during the 1974 FIFA World Cup. He was born in Lovćenac, Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.

Popivoda died on 9 September 2021 in Bijela, Montenegro at the age of 74.

[[Winnie Harlow]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, Canadian models, Canadian activists, People from Ontario

Chantelle Whitney Brown-Young (born July 27, 1994), known professionally as Winnie Harlow, is a Jamaican-Canadian fashion model. Harlow has vitiligo and often raises awareness of the condition. In 2014, she was a contestant for America's Next Top Model.

[[Larry Elder]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, American lawyers, American radio personalities, American political writers, American conservatives, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Politicians from Los Angeles, California, Entertainers from Los Angeles, California, US Republican Party politicians

Laurence Allen Elder (born April 27, 1952) is an American conservative talk radio host, author, politician and lawyer. He hosts The Larry Elder Show. 

Elder was a Republican candidate for Governor of California to replace Democrat Gavin Newsom in the 2021 recall election. However, the recall election was not successful. He later announced his candidacy for the 2022 gubernatorial election.

[[Joey Greco]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1972 births, American movie actors, American television actors, Television personalities from New York, Actors from New York

Joel Stephen "Joey" Greco (born February 29, 1972) is an American television personality and actor. He was the host of the reality TV show Cheaters for ten seasons. Greco was born in Long Island, New York. His career began in 1993.

[[Abd al-Aziz Bin Baz]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1999 deaths, People from Riyadh, Imams

Abd Al-Aziz Bin Baz (1910-1999), was born in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. He dedicated his life to the spiritual guidance of his students and the Muslim community at large, and was particularly concerned with the state of the Islamic world. He was the Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia from 1993 until his death in 1999. He was got King Faisal International Prize for Service to Islam in 1982.

His intense knowledge of Islamic doctrine and shar’ia and significant contributions to Islamic research and education gained him the respect of Muslims worldwide.

[[Muhammad Nasiruddin al-Albani]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1999 deaths, Imams, Albanian Sunni Muslim scholars of Islam, Syrian Sunni Muslim scholars of Islam, 20th-century Albanian writers, 20th-century Syrian writers, Albanian Arabic-language writers, Carpenters, Hadith scholars, Albanian Islamic religious leaders, Muslims, People from Shkodër, Albanian Salafis, Syrian Salafis, Wahhabism, Sunni imams, Critics of Shia Islam, Watchmakers (people), Albanian emigrants to Syria, Atharis, Zahiris, Syrian Islamic religious leaders, Biographical evaluation scholars

Muhammad b. al-Haj Nuh b. Nijati b. Adam al-Ishqudri al-Albani al-Arnauti (1914–1999), is considered by many academics as probably the greatest Islamic scholar of the 20th Century. He was born in Shkodra, the old capital of Albania, in 1914 and moved as a child with his family to Damascus where he completed his early education and received rigorous tutelage in Arabic and Islamic studies by prominent scholars of that time. Meanwhile, he worked as a clock and watch repairer to help support his family. He was got King Faisal International Prize for Islamic Studies in 1999.

Shaikh Al-Albani started to specialize in Hadith and related subjects in the 1930’s and by the age of 20; he transcribed and commented on Al-Hafez al-Iraqi’s monumental text “Al-Mughnee ‘an hamlil-Asfar,” followed by a series of other books, lectures and influential articles in Al-Manar magazine. It was not long before he surpassed all of his contemporaries to become the world’s leading authority in Hadith sciences. He wrote or edited more than 300 books and manuscripts, many of which became major references for Hadith scholars.

[[King Faisal Prize]]

CATEGORIES: Religion-related awards, Science and technology awards, Saudi Arabian awards, 1979 establishments in Saudi Arabia, International awards, Saudi Arabian literary awards, Islamic awards

Launched by the King Faisal Foundation and granted for the first time in 1979, the King Faisal Prize recognizes the outstanding works of individuals and institutions in five major categories: Service to Islam, Islamic Studies, Arabic Language and Literature, Medicine, and Science. It's the most prestigious Award of the Muslim World. 

It's aim is to benefit Muslims in their present and future, inspire them to participate in all aspects of civilization, as well as enrich human knowledge and develop mankind. KFP winners are evaluated only based on merit and their works are meticulously examined by specialized selection committees. The strict selection procedure meets international standards, and many of the laureates who have been awarded the prize went on to receive other prestigious prizes.

[[Magnitogorsk]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Russia

Magnitogorsk (Магнитогорск) is a city in Chelyabinsk Oblast, Russia. As of 2012, the city has 410,733 people.

[[King Faisal Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in Saudi Arabia, Cultural organisations based in Saudi Arabia, Organizations established in 1976

The King Faisal Foundation (KFF) is an international philanthropic organization established in 1976 with the mission of preserving and perpetuating King Faisal’s legacy.

Following in the steps of King Faisal who had his eyes set on advancement while keeping a foot in tradition, KFF has gained global outreach as it pushes the boundaries to empower the generations of the future. With its wide portfolio of investments, KFF is able to retain its financial autonomy, which allows this vast operation to keep creating and developing programs that serve its purpose. Since its establishment and until 2019, KFF has spent over 2.3 billion Saudi Riyals to support its pillar programmes, philanthropic projects and educational scholarships.

KFF’s first project was completed in 1979, a milestone followed by endless achievements that have created a positive impact on the advancement of communities all over the world. With its wide portfolio of investments, KFF is able to retain its financial autonomy, which allows this vast operation to keep creating and developing programs that serve its purpose. Since its establishment and until 2015, KFF has spent over 1.9 billion Saudi Riyals to support its pillar programmes, philanthropic projects and educational scholarships.

KFF’s first project was completed in 1979, a milestone followed by endless achievements that have created a positive impact on the advancement of communities all over the world.

[[Ahmed Deedat]]

Ahmad Hussein Deedat (અહમદ હુસેન દીદત; احمد حسین دیدات) was a renowned Muslim thinker, author, orator and scholar of comparative religion. Born in Surat (India) in 1918, he joined his father in South Africa in 1927. He was able to learn English in a short time and was a bright pupil. However, he had to leave school at the age of 16 to support his family. He vigorously pursued self-education, including extensive studies on comparative religion, while working in a furniture shop. He was profoundly influenced by observing that, in addition to racial discrimination, the authorities used religious ideology to “numb the masses,” and that there was a profound misunderstanding of Islam among non- Muslims. He was inspired by the concept of holding interreligious public debates, which he read about in Kairanvi’s book “Truth Revealed” He delivered his first lecture, entitled “Mohammad: Messenger of Islam” in a movie theater in Durban, with only 15 people attending. Within a short time, his lectures attracted thousands of people who crossed the racial barrier to listen to him and ask questions.

What distinguished Deedat from his contemporaries was his intensive knowledge of the Bible and Holy scriptures, coupled with his command of English.

Following this tremendous initial success, The 51 Shaikh decided to dedicate his life to the explanation of Islam and promotion of its values. His contributions, especially in the field of comparative religion, extended for more than 40 years and included his authorship of numerous books and manuscripts in addition to hundreds of audio-taped lectures, televised programs and public debates on Islam. Sheikh Deedat almost single-handedly established the As-Salam Center to train propagators of Islam and provide them with theological tools to defend it. He also founded and chaired the Islamic Propagation Center International in Durban, South Africa.

[[Abdul-Rahman al-Sa'di]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century Saudi Arabian people, Saudi Arabian Sunni Muslim scholars of Islam, 1889 births, 1956 deaths, Imams, Saudi Arabian Salafis, People from Unaizah

Abū ‘Abdillāh ‘Abd al-Raḥmān ibn Nāṣir ibn ‘Abdillāh ibn Nāṣir al-Sa’dī from al-Sa’dī, the Shaykh, descended of the Tamīm tribe, was born in the town of ʿUnaizah in al-Qaṣīm on the 12th of Muḥarram in the year 1307H. His mother died when he was four years old, and his father died when he was seven. As a result, he grew up an orphan but he had a stable upbringing. He was an Islamic Scholar from Saudi Arabia. And also was a teacher and a author in Unaizah, Saudi Arabia. He authored more than 40 books in several different fields including tafsir, fiqh, and 'aqidah.

He had already attracted attention at a young age with his intelligence and his strong enthusiasm for learning. After the death of his father, he had read the Qurʾān, then thoroughly memorised it by the time he was eleven years old. Then he began learning from the learned men of his town and those who visited it. He worked hard until he acquired a respectable amount of knowledge in every field. When he reached the age of twenty-three, he began teaching. Like that, he used to both learn and teach, and the entirety of his time was spent doing that. It was like that until in the year 1351H, he was placed in charge of education in his town, and became a mentor for all the students.

[[Tafsir]]

CATEGORIES: Quran

The word ‘Tafsir’ comes from the root word ‘fassara’, which means to expound or to explain. Therefore, Tafsir of Quran means the explanation or interpretations of the verses of Quran. The Tafsir of Quran is not something done by anyone with ordinary or common intellect and understanding of Islam, rather it is done by people after obtaining extensive knowledge about Islam and reading the history of Islam thoroughly. The objective of a Tafsir is to find out the true meanings of the verses of Quran, so that the audience could benefit from it and know the right and true message of Quran.

Quran is the word of Allah Almighty, therefore, in order to understand it in the true sense, a person has to sharpen his or her intellectual ability as well as increase the knowledge. When one is at a particular intellectual level, only then can he or she start understanding the true message, which Allah Almighty conveyed through words of Quran. Pertaining to the explanation of Quran for the understanding of general audience, different people have tried to write the Tafsir of Quran. Although Muslims recite Quran and try reading it with translation, however, the reading of Tafsir has its own importance. The lines below discuss what Tafsir is, why is it important and its different kinds.

[[Aqeedah]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic culture

Aqidah (Arabic: عقيدة‎, romanized: ʿaqīdah, plural عقائد ʿaqāʾid, also ʿaqīda, aqeeda etc.) is an Islamic term of Arabic origin. It means creed (Arabic pronunciation: ʕɑˈqɑːʔɪd).

Different Islamic theologians have different views on aqidah. The term has a significant technical usage in Islamic theology: it means those matters over which Muslims hold conviction. It is a branch of Islamic studies describing the beliefs of Islam.

[[The Girl on a Motorcycle]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 movies, 1960s romantic drama movies, British romantic drama movies, French romance movies, French drama movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by Jack Cardiff, Movies set in France, Movies set in Germany

The Girl on a Motorcycle (French: La motocyclette) is a 1968 British French erotic romantic drama movie. It was directed by Jack Cardiff. It stars Marianne Faithfull, Alain Delon, Roger Mutton, Marius Goring, Catherine Jourdan, Jacques Marin and André Maranne.

[[Mizanur Rahman (Bangladeshi Islamic Preacher)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Bangladeshi Muslims, Bangladeshi Sunni Muslims

Mizanur Rahman Azhari, also known Azhari (born: 26 January, 1990), is a Bangladeshi Islamic Preacher from Demra, Dhaka and a very popular named in the Muslim Community across the Globe especially, in Bangladesh. He has gained immense popularity in Mahfil in a short time. Azhari, also well-known as an Islamic speaker, narrated in the 'Great Tafsir Mahfil' of the commemoration period. 

In the last 50 years, Mizanur Rahman has broken the tradition of Waz and has been focusing on the above-ground and above-ground events. Social inconsistency is the main topic of his discussion.

[[Bedlam (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s horror movies, 1940s thriller movies, American horror thriller movies, Movies directed by Mark Robson

Bedlam is a 1946 American horror thriller movie directed by Mark Robson and was based on the 18th century painting A Rake's Progress. It stars Boris Karloff, Anna Lee, Billy House, Ian Wolfe, Glen Vernon, Jason Robards, Sr., Leyland Hodgson and was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[Lydia Hearst]]

CATEGORIES:  Living people,  American models

Lydia Marie Hearst-Shaw is an American fashion model, actress, and lifestyle blogger. She is a granddaughter of William Randolph.

[[Sunda Shelf]]

Sunda Shelf is a continental shelf located in Southeast Asia. It is forms the second largest submerged extension of a continental margin in world. Most of platform is covered by shallow seas– including the southerm South China Sea, the Gulf of Thailand, and tha Java Sea– with depth averaging less than 330 foot (100 metres). Much of the Sunda Shelf's total are of 690.0002 miles (1.800.000 km2) ia occupied by the Indonesian islands of Borneo, Java and Sumatra.

Rising sea levels since the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM), some ~20.000 years ago, has drowned the Sunda Shelf, has been derived from a siliciclastic system on a tectonically stable Shelf in Southeast Asia.

[[Hana Soukupová]]

CATEGORIES:  1985 births,  living people,  Czech models

Hana Soukupová (born 18 December 1985) is a Czech supermodel. She was one of the participants of the Victoria's Secret Fashion Shows and modelled for the Victoria's Secret catalog.

[[Bilal Philips]]

CATEGORIES: Imams, Converts to Islam, Canadian Muslims, Black Canadian people, Alumni of the University of Wales, King Saud University alumni, Islamic University of Madinah alumni, Living people, People deported from Australia, People deported from Germany, People deported from Kenya, Jamaican Muslims, Jamaican Salafis, 1946 births, Islamic television preachers, Jamaican emigrants to Canada

Dr Abu Ameenah Bilal Philips is a Jamaican Canadian Islamic Scholar who converted to Islam in the early seventies after journeying politically and intellectually from Christianity to Communism. Shortly after his reversion to Islam, he embarked on a spiritual academic journey to the other side of the world seeking Islamic knowledge. This journey took him to Saudi Arabia where he completed a BA in Islamic studies in Madeenah, and an MA in Islamic Theology in Riyadh, then to the University of Wales, UK, where he completed a PhD in Islamic Theology in the early nineties.

After graduation from Madeenah, Dr Bilal became a teacher of Islamic studies for 10 years in an Islamic High School, Manaret Riyadh, and a lecturer of Arabic and Islamic studies in the American University in Dubai, UAE, for another 10 years. During his 10 years in the UAE, he founded and taught at the Islamic Information Center in Dubai, and during his subsequent 7 years in Qatar he has been an Islamic consultant and lecturer for the Islamic Information wing of Sh. Eed Charity. Bilal Philips has written, translated and commented on over 50 published books on various Islamic topics. He has also edited and published the 56 book Eemaan Reading Series for children and presented Islamic programs for a number of years on Riyadh Channel 2TV, Sharjah TV for ten years, as well as Peace TV, Huda TV, Islam Channel, UK, and the Deen Show, Chicago, USA.

In 2002 Dr Philips founded and headed the Islamic studies department of Preston University, Ajman, UAE, and in 2007 he founded and headed the Islamic Studies Academy, Doha, Qatar, while simultaneously launching the International Open University (https://iou.edu.gm/) which is currently offering free Islamic courses to over 100,000 registered students from over 207 different countries world wide, and for which he was included in the Jordanian publication, The 500 Most Influential Muslims (latest edition).

Bilal subsequently founded and headed, in 2008, the English medium Islamic studies department of Knowledge International University, who’s Chancellor is Shaikh Dr. ‘Abdur-Rahman ibn ‘Abdil-Azeez Al Sudais and who’s President of the board of trustees is Shaikh ‘Abdul-Azeez ibn ‘Abdullah Al Shaikh, Mufti of Saudi Arabia. More recently, in 2009, Dr Bilal Philips founded and headed the College of Da’wah and Islamic Culture (English Section), Omdurman Islamic University, Sudan, and established and directed Preston International College (www.prestonchennai.ac.in) in Chennai, India.

In March 2010, Dr Abu Ameenah Bilal Philips launched, for the first time in history, an accredited tuition-free BA in Islamic Studies degree course at the International Open University (https://iou.edu.gm/stream/bais/).

[[Abdul-Rahman Al-Sudais]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Islam and antisemitism, Saudi Arabian Muslims, Imams, People who memorized the Quran, Saudi Arabian Quran reciters, People from Riyadh, King Saud University alumni, Antisemitism in Saudi Arabia, Umm al-Qura University alumni, Critics of Shia Islam

Abdul Rahman Ibn Abdul Aziz al-Sudais was born in the city of Qassim, Saudi Arabia in the year 1961, is a Saudi world renown Qari. In addition to being the Chief Imam and Khateeb of Masjid Al Haram in Makkah, he is also the President of the General Presidency for the Affairs of the Two Holy Mosques.

At the tender age of 12, Al Sudais had memorized the Holy Qur’an, and completed his preliminary education in the ‘Al Muthana Bin Harith Elementary School ‘ and graduated in 1979 with excellent grades.

The renowned Imam studied in Riyadh University – presently known as King Saud  University, received a degree in Sharia in 1983, and a Master from the Sharia College of Imam Muhammad bin Saud Islamic University in 1987. In 1995 he was awarded a Ph.D. in Islamic Sharia from Umm al-Qura University and he is one of the senior teachers in the Faculty of Sharia at the same place.

Sheikh Al Sudais is known for his magnanimous voice and for his emotional, overwhelming recitation of the Quran in accordance with Tajweed. Every believer of the Muslim Ummah is not alien to this voice, so much so that Sheikh Abdul Rehman Al Sudais was even appointed by King Salman to deliver Hajj Khutbah in the year 2016/1437.

In 2005, he received the prize of the ‘ Islamic Personality Of the year’ in the 9th annual Dubai International Holy Quran Award.

Sheikh Sudais is currently overlooking the progress of the much talked about expansion of both Masjids in Makkah and Madinah, as the expansion in Masjid Al Haram targets completion at the earliest.

[[Phyllomedusa tetraploidea]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The hidden walking leaf frog (Phyllomedusa tetraploidea) is a frog that lives in Brazil, Argentina, and part of Paraguay.

[[Umm al-Qura University]]

CATEGORIES: Umm al-Qura University, 1981 establishments in Saudi Arabia, Educational institutions established in 1981, Universities and colleges in Saudi Arabia, Islamic universities and colleges in Saudi Arabia, Education in Mecca

Umm Al-Qura University, despite its recent establishment and its current demarcation, remains one of the most distinguished universities by virtue of its location and heritage. Umm Al-Qura University has emerged as an academic institution with a great academic reputation in Sharia sciences, education and Islamic studies, in addition to modern scientific and applied disciplines.

Since the establishment of its first college, Umm Al-Qura University has passed through three historical stages; The first stage (1369-1391 AH); The first launch of Umm Al-Qura University dates back to the year 1369 AH, when the College of Sharia was established as the first edifice in higher education in its modern sense in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Sharia was established in 1381 AH, and it was called the College of Sharia and Education, and in 1382 AH the College of Education was established in Makkah Al-Mukarramah, independent of the College of Sharia.

[[Liisa Winkler]]

CATEGORIES:  Living people,  Canadian models

Liisa Winkler is a Canadian fashion model.

[[Huda TV]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic media, Islamic television networks, English-language television stations, Television channels and stations established in 2005, Saudi Arabian companies established in 2005

Huda TV is a Satellite TV and internet television channel free-to-air, English language, Islamic-focused, offers the message of Islam in English. It was Launched in 2005.

There are many satellite channels available to viewers around the world, but one in particular stands out in terms of quality programming, decency and commitment to the message of Islam. Huda has a team of hard-working people from all over the world. These people have vast knowledge in different aspects of life and Islamic practice and perceptions. The Muslim world is not confined to one particular area of the earth; there are now Muslims in every corner of the globe. Huda plays the important role of drawing them together under the light of the everlasting message of Islam that is pertinent for all eras and places until the end of time.

Huda is committed to delving into the issues that concern Muslims wherever they are and also raises subjects that are important to think about and resolve in today’s complicated world.

As Muslims struggle to understand Islam and practice it in today’s modern environment, Huda is a light that shines, illuminating the way; clarifying complicated issues, motivating and inspiring the hearts and continually reminding our viewers to turn to Almighty Allah, seeking His mercy and guidance in every aspect of life.

Huda seeks to be your comprehensive satellite channel offering a wide variety of programs. By watching Huda you can learn the correct recitation of Quran, learn the Arabic language, be entertained with quiz shows, learn calligraphy, cooking or enjoy our variety of children’s programs.

Wherever you are, you can turn to Huda and learn and enjoy in an atmosphere of decency, piety and inspiration.

The Muslim world is not confined to one particular area of the earth; there are now Muslims in every corner of the globe.

[[King Abdulaziz University]]

CATEGORIES: King Abdulaziz University, 1967 establishments in Saudi Arabia, Educational institutions established in 1967, Education in Jeddah, Universities and colleges in Saudi Arabia

King Abdulaziz University is a public university in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The establishment of this university was in the year 1387 AH / 1967 AD as a private university, with the aim of spreading higher education in the western region of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. With the efforts of the loyal people of this country, the dream turned into reality and the idea came into existence, as the members of the Preparatory Committee had a meeting with King Faisal bin Abdul Aziz, and he expressed all support and support for the idea of ​​the project, and formed the founding committee of the university headed by the late King Faisal and His Excellency the Minister of Education at the time Sheikh Hassan bin Abdullah Al Sheikh.

The university began its first academic year in the year (1388 AH - 1968 AD) with the opening of the preparatory study program, with a small number of male and female students (68 males - 30 female students), and in the immediately following year, the first college in the university (the College of Economics and Administration) was opened, and in the following year a college was established Arts and Humanities

After the esteemed Council of Ministers issued a decision in the year (1391 AH) to annex the university to the state, and thus it was transformed from a private university to a governmental one, at the same time another decision was issued to include the faculties of Education, Sharia and Graduate Studies, which had been in existence since (1369 AH - 1949 AD) in Mecca Al-Mukarramah to King Abdul Aziz University, then separated after that to be attached to Umm Al-Qura University after its establishment.

[[Smoky (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s western movies, 1940s drama movies, American western movies, American drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Louis King

Smoky is a 1946 American western drama movie directed by Louis King and is the second adaption of the 1926 novel Smoky the Cowhorse by Will James. It stars Fred MacMurray, Anne Baxter, Bruce Cabot, Roy Roberts, Esther Dale, Burl Ives and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Alhumdulillah]]

CATEGORIES: Islam

In Arabic Alhamdulillah is written, ٱلْحَمْدُ لِلّٰهِ

The word is made of three parts: al, the definite article meaning “the”. hamdu, which literal means “praise” li-llah (preposition + noun) Allah. Putting this together we get “All Praise To Allah” or “Praise and thanks be to Allah”.

[[Mulgi Zali Ho]]

Mulgi Zali Ho (The girl is born) is an Indian Marathi language television Drama which airs on Star Pravah. The show stars Sharvani Pillai, Kiran Mane, Divya Pugaonkar and Yogesh Sohoni in lead roles. It is produced by Suzana Ghai, Hemant Ruprell and Ranjit Thakur under the banner of Panaroma Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.

[[Ismail ibn Musa Menk]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Imams, Quran reciters, Theologians, Islamic University of Madinah alumni, 1975 births, People who memorized the Quran

Mufti Dr Ismail Menk is a leading global Islamic scholar born and raised in Zimbabwe. He studied Shariah in Madinah and holds a Doctorate of Social Guidance from Aldersgate University. Mufti Menk’s work has gained worldwide recognition and he has been named one of “The Top 500 Most Influential Muslims in the World” since 2010.

He has millions of followers across his social media platforms. His personable style and down to earth approach has made him one of the most sought after scholars in our time. He has endeared himself to people with his much loved lecture series, a Mufti Menk hallmark.

Mufti travels the world spreading a simple but profound message: “Do good, help others while preparing for the Hereafter”. He is active in the international arena and is a strong proponent of peace and justice, speaking up against all forms of terrorism.

[[Bollywood Hungama]]

CATEGORIES: Bollywood, 1998 establishments, Movie industry, Television, Entertainment websites

Bollywood Hungama (previously known as IndiaFM or IndiaFM.com) is a Bollywood entertainment website, owned by Hungama Digital Media Entertainment, which acquired the website in 2000. The website provides news related to the Indian film industry, particularly Bollywood, film reviews and box office reports. Launched on 15 June 1998, the website was originally named "IndiaFM.com". It changed its name to "Bollywood Hungama" in 2008. Bollywood Hungama release their images under the CC-BY-3.0 license. 

[[500 Most Influential Muslims]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 non-fiction books, International biographical dictionaries, Top people lists

500 Most Influential Muslims is an annual publication that ranks the most influential muslims in the world.

[[Midpoint circle algorithm]]

This algorithm draws all eight octants simultaneously, starting from each cardinal direction (0°, 90°, 180°, 270°) and extends both ways to reach the nearest multiple of 45° (45°, 135°, 225°, 315°). It can determine where to stop because when y = x, it has reached 45°. The reason for using these angles is shown in the above picture: As y increases, it does not skip nor repeat any y value until reaching 45°. So during the while loop, x increments by 1 each iteration, and y decrements by 1 on occasion, never exceeding 1 in one iteration. This changes at 45° because that is the point where the tangent is rise=run. Whereas rise>run before and rise<run after.

The second part of the problem, the determinant, is far trickier. This determines when to decrement x. It usually comes after drawing the pixels in each iteration, because it never goes below the radius on the first pixel. Because in a continuous function, the function for a sphere is the function for a circle with the radius dependent on z (or whatever the third variable is), it stands to reason that the algorithm for a discrete(voxel) sphere would also rely on this Midpoint circle algorithm. But when looking at a sphere, the integer radius of some adjacent circles is the same, but it is not expected to have the same exact circle adjacent to itself in the same hemisphere. Instead, a circle of the same radius needs a different determinant, to allow the curve to come in slightly closer to the center or extend out farther.

[[Henry H. Arnold]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births

Henry Harley Arnold (June 25, 1886 – January 15, 1950) was an American general officer. He held  the ranks of General of the Army and General of the Air Force. He is the air force general who held five star rank in two United States Military Services.

He died on January 15, 1950 in his home town.

[[King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals]]

CATEGORIES: King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Dhahran, Educational institutions established in 1963, Universities and colleges in Saudi Arabia, 1963 establishments in Saudi Arabia, Energy education

King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals (KFUPM) is one of the 21 Saudi Universities that, beside the Council of Higher Education, the Ministry of Higher Education, as well as several specialized colleges and institutions, consist the main component of the higher education system in Saudi Arabia. KFUPM and the other Saudi Universities are supervised by the Ministry of Higher Education, and regulated by The Council of Higher Education.

KFUPM, same as other Saudi Universities, has a board chaired by the Minister of Higher Education while the rector serves as the deputy chairman. Membership of the Board includes the Secretary General of the Council of Higher Education, the vice rectors, the deans, and three external members appointed by the Minister of Higher Education. This Board is responsible for all university operations, it grants degrees to students, approves programs and curricula of existing departments, and makes recommendations to the Council of Higher Education in other matters.

[[Wahiduddin Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, Indian imams, Nonviolence advocates, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in India

Maulana Wahiduddin Khan is an Islamic spiritual scholar who has adopted peace as the mission of his life. Known for his Gandhian views, he considers non-violence as the only method to achieve success.

Internationally recognized for his contributions to world peace, he has received, among others, the Demiurgus Peace International Award, the Padma Bhushan, the Rajiv Gandhi National Sadbhavna Award and the National Citizen's Award. A recent book, The 500 Most Influential Muslims of 2009 by Georgetown University, Washington DC, has named him “Islam’s Spiritual Ambassador to the world.” His approach, the book points out, is “popular among Indians, both Muslim and non-Muslim.”

Born in Azamgarh in 1925, the Maulana was educated in a traditional seminary. From his early years, he showed a voracious appetite for modern knowledge, spending entire days in the library. As a result he became well versed in both classical Islamic learning and modern disciplines. His extensive research led him to conclude that the need of the hour was to present Islamic teachings in the style and language of the post-scientific era.

[[YouTube Creator Awards]]

YouTube, the largest video sharing platform, currently has millions of creators putting out content everyday. To recognize their efforts YouTube has a program known as YouTube Creator Awards or more commonly known as YouTube Play Buttons. Creator Awards are given at YouTube's sole discretion and we only recognise creators that have played by the rules.

[[Abu Ammaar Yasir Qadhi]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Muhajir people, University of Houston alumni, Islamic University of Madinah alumni, Yale University alumni, American Sunni Muslim scholars of Islam, American academics of Pakistani descent, Theologians, Dow Chemical Company employees, American expatriates in Saudi Arabia, People who memorized the Quran

Yasir Qadhi is a resident Scholar of the Memphis Islamic Center, a professor at Rhodes College in the Department of Religious Studies, and is the Dean of Academic Affairs at AlMaghrib Institute. He is one of the few people who has combined a traditional Eastern Islamic seminary education with a Western academic training of the study of Islam.

Yasir graduated with a B.Sc. in Chemical Engineering from the University of Houston, after which he was accepted as a student at the Islamic University of Madinah. After completing a diploma in Arabic, he graduated with a B.A. from the College of Hadith and Islamic Sciences, and then completed a M.A. in Islamic Theology from the College of Dawah. He then returned to the United States, and completed a PhD in Religious Studies from Yale University.

Dr. Yasir Qadhi has authored several books, published academic articles, and appeared on numerous satellite and TV stations around the globe. His online videos are some of the most popular and highly-watched Islamic videos in English.

[[Omar Suleiman (imam)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Imams, American YouTubers, People from New Orleans, Louisiana

Imam Omar Suleiman is the Founder and President of the Yaqeen Institute for Islamic Research, and an Adjunct Professor of Islamic Studies in the Graduate Liberal Studies Program at SMU (Southern Methodist University). He is also the Resident Scholar at Valley Ranch Islamic Center and Co-Chair Emeritus of Faith Forward Dallas at Thanks-Giving Square.

[[Tariq Masood]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Pakistani YouTubers, Pakistani Muslims, Pakistani Sunni Muslims, Muslims, People from Karachi, Pakistani Sunni Muslim scholars of Islam, Muslim missionaries

Tariq Masood (مفتی طارق مسعود; born 1975) is a Pakistani Islamic Scholar. He pursued an intensive, full-time study of the classical, Islamic academic disciplines hitherto known as the Mufti Sahab pursued an intensive, full-time study of the classical, Islamic academic disciplines hitherto known as the 'Dars-e-Nizami', and further completed his specialisation in Islamic jurisprudence.

[[Wellington boot]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing, Fashion

Wellington boot is a type of boot, popularized by Anglo-Irish soldier and general Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington. 

Wellington boot is waterproof and is made from rubber. These boots are usually worn in wet weather, especially in autumn time. They protect from puddles. 

[[Tariq Jamil]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Muslim missionaries, Punjabi people, Muslims, Pakistani Muslims

Maulana Tariq Jameel is a prominent Deobandi scholar who is also one of the most popular preachers in Pakistan. He belongs to the Tablighi Jamaat group and his lectures focus on the subject of self-purification, avoidance of violence, observance of Allah’s orders and pursuing the way of Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him).

After completing pre-medical studies, Maulana Tariq was admitted to the King Edward Medical College in Lahore. It was there—under the influence of members of the Tablighi Jamaat—that his focus changed to Islamic Education. His Islamic training is from Jamia Arabia, where he studied Qur’an, Hadith, Sufism, logic, and Islamic jurisprudence. Maulana Tariq’s background in the sciences allows him to explain Islamic matters in a way that appeals to modern urban Muslims. Additionally, his simple lifestyle and eloquence in Urdu, as well as his fluency in Arabic, catapulted his fame across the Muslim world.

[[Pump and dump]]

"Pump and dump" (P&D) is a form of security fraud that involves artificially inflating the price of an owned stock through false and misleading positive statements, in order to sell the cheaply purchased stock at a higher price.

[[Mishary bin Rashid Alafasy]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1976 births, Islamic University of Madinah alumni, Kuwaiti Sunni Muslims, Kuwaiti Muslims, Kuwaiti Islamists, Kuwaiti Quran reciters, Kuwaiti imams, People who memorized the Quran

Mishary Rashid Alafasy was born on September 5th, 1976. Mishary Rashid Ghareeb Mohammed Rashid Al-Afasy (nicknamed Abu Nora ), is an eminent and prolific Imam and an excellent Qur’an reciter hailing from Kuwait.

The Holy Quran was the subject of this Imam’s keen interest and learning and hence, it came as no surprise when he memorized the Book of Allah in a few years itself. Besides his melodious and emotional voice, he has managed to grab the attention of the bigwigs in the field of Islamic knowledge such as Sheikh Ibrahim Ali Shehata Al-Samanodi, the Sheikh Abdur Area Radwan, and also the great sheikh Ahmed Abdulaziz Al-Zaiat.The next step was his decision to pursue his higher education at the Islamic and Quranic university of Madinah, Saudi Arabia.

The two famous links of the recitation of the Quran: TV Alafasy and Alafasy Q are managed by this great Imam and rightfully so. In a similar manner, numerous TV channels and radio stations have taken pride in broadcasting all his highly commendable productions.

Currently, Mishary Rashid Alafasy is leading the prayers as an Imam at Masjid Al-Kabir in Kuwait.

[[Leader of the Opposition (Portugal)]]

CATEGORIES: Portuguese politicians

The Leader of the Opposition (Líder da Oposição) is an unofficial honorary title given to the leader of the largest party in the Assembly of the Republic.

[[Rui Rio]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Mayors, Portuguese politicians

Rui Fernando da Silva Rio GCIH (born 6 August 1957) is a Portuguese politician. He was the Mayor of Porto. 

On 13 January 2018, he was elected President of the Social Democratic Party (PSD) with 54% of the votes, becoming the Leader of the Opposition.

[[Michael Chapman (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, English singer-songwriters, English guitarists, Folk musicians, Folk singers, People from Leeds

Michael Chapman (24 January 1941 – 10 September 2021) was an English folk singer-songwriter and guitar player. Chapman originally began playing guitar with jazz bands. He was born in Hunslet, Leeds, England. His career began in 1966.

Chapman died on 10 September 2021 at the age of 80.

[[Lucette Michaux-Chevry]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, French mayors

Lucette Michaux-Chevry (5 March 1929 – 9 September 2021) was a French politician. She was the President of the Regional Council of Guadeloupe between 1992 and 2004. She was born in Paris. She was Mayor of Basse-Terre from 1995 until 2001 and again from 2008 until 2011. Michaux-Chevry was elected to the French Senate 1995.

Michaux-Chevry died on 9 September 2021 at the age of 92.

[[Bruce McFee]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2021 deaths, Scottish politicians, Deaths from stroke

Bruce James McFee (18 May 1961 – 9 September 2021) was a Scottish National Party (SNP) politician. He was elected as a member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) for the West of Scotland region between 2003 until 2007. McFee was born in Johnstone, Scotland.

McFee died on 9 September 2021 in Paisley, Scotland from problems caused by a stroke, aged 60.

[[Robert A. Rovner]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, American radio personalities, American lawyers, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

Robert A. Rovner (September 28, 1943 – September 8, 2021) was an American radio personality, politician and lawyer. He was a Republican member of the Pennsylvania State Senate for the 6th district from 1971 to 1974. Rovner was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Rovner died in Philadelphia on September 8, 2021 at the age of 77.

[[Frederick L. Van Sickle]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, American judges, American lawyers, Politicians from Wisconsin, Politicians from Washington, People from Spokane, Washington, US Republican Party politicians

Frederick Leforest Van Sickle (January 31, 1943 – September 2, 2021) was an American politician and lawyer. He was the United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington from 1991 until his death. He was nominated to the court by President George H. W. Bush. He was chief judge from 2000 until 2005. Van Sickle was born in Superior, Wisconsin.

Van Sickle died on September 2, 2021 in Spokane, Washington at the age of 78.

[[Charles Konan Banny]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Prime Ministers of Ivory Coast, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in France

Charles Konan Banny (11 November 1942 – 10 September 2021) was an Ivorian politician. He was the Prime Minister of Côte d'Ivoire from 7 December 2005 until 4 April 2007.

Banny died on 10 September 2021 in Paris from COVID-19 at the age of 78.

[[Stephen H. Grimes]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2021 deaths, American lawyers, Politicians from Illinois, Politicians from Florida, American judges, People from Peoria, Illinois, US Republican Party politicians

Stephen Henry "Steve" Grimes (November 17, 1927 – September 10, 2021) was an American lawyer and politician. He was a justice of the Florida Supreme Court from 1987 to 1996. He was Chief Justice from 1994 until 1996. Grimes was born in Peoria, Illinois. Grimes was appointed to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal in October 1973. He was chief judge from 1978 until 1980.

Grimes died on September 10, 2021 at the age of 97.

[[Kathryn Prescott]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, Actors from London

Kathryn Prescott (born 4 June 1991) is an English actress. She is best known for playing Emily Fitch on the teen drama television series Skins and Carter Stevens in the 2014 MTV drama Finding Carter. Prescott was born in London. Her career began in 2008.

On 9 September 2021, Prescott was hit by a cement truck while crossing the road in New York City. She was hospitalized in critical condition with broken bones.

[[Gordon Spice]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, British racecar drivers, British engineers, Sportspeople from London, Businesspeople from London, Cancer deaths in London

Gordon Spice (18 April 1940 – 10 September 2021) was a British racing driver. He competed in both sports cars and Touring Car racing in the 1960s and 1970s. An engineer, he also created the company Spice Engineering, where he designed and built cars. He was born in London.

Spice died of cancer on 10 September 2021 in London, aged 81.

[[Leif Frode Onarheim]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Norwegian politicians, Norwegian businesspeople

Leif Frode Onarheim (23 August 1934 – 9 September 2021) was a Norwegian businessperson and politician. He was a member of the Conservative Party. He was President of the Federation of Norwegian Industries, and later of the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise. He was an elected member of the Storting from 2001 to 2005. Onarheim was born in Vestre Toten, Norway.

Onarheim died on 9 September 2021 in Oslo at the age of 87.

[[Burberry]]

Burberry is a British fashion house. It distributes ready to wear. Also Burberry designs fashion accessories, leather goods, cosmetics, trench coats, and also eyeglasses.

First shop opened in Haymarket in London in 1891. 

[[Mariam Chabi Talata]]

Mariam Chabi Talata Zimé Yérima is a Beninese politician and the current Vice President of Benin Republic.

[[Richard Oluwarotimi Osibanjo]]

Richard Oluwarotimi Osibanjo is an author, coach, program facilitator, a speaker in transformational leadership and executive team performance.

[[Danjuma Laah]]

Danjuma Laah Tella (born February 16, 1960) is a Nigerian politician and the current senator representing Kaduna South Senatorial district of Kaduna state.

[[Guarani people]]

CATEGORIES: Articles using infobox ethnic group with image parameters, Ethnic groups

The Guarani are a group of peoples of South America. They were in the continent before any European arrived there. They speak the Guarani language. In the presentthe Guarani people live in Paraguay  the Misiones Province of Argentina, southern Brazil once as far north as Rio de Janeiro, and parts of Uruguay and Bolivia.

[[Sverker Johannson]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish physicists, 1961 births, Living people

Sverker Johansson (born 1961) is a Swedish physicist, linguist, textbook author and university professor who created Lsjbot, a controversial Wikipedia bot.

[[Koné Bakary]]

CATEGORIES: Ivorian people, African actors

Koné Bakary (born about 1998) is an Ivorian actor. He studied linguistics at the Université Félix Houphouët-Boigny.

In 2020, he starred in the film Night of the Kings.

[[Lsjbot]]

Lsjbot is a controversial Wikipedia bot invented by Swedish physicist Sverker Johannson. It was originally invented for the Swedish Wikipedia, but later expanded to the Waray and Cebuano Wikipedias. The bot auto-creates articles, primarily about geography, plant and animal species, the Solar System and natural features such as lakes, rivers and mountains. Due to Lsjbot, the Swedish, Cebuano and Waray Wikipedias all have over 1 million articles. The bot is now inactive on the Swedish and Waray Wikipedias and while it remains active on the Cebuano Wikipedia, there currently are no mass-creation projects for articles on the wiki, according to Sverker himself.

[[Raaj Vishwakarma]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Indian actors, Living people, People from Uttar Pradesh, Actors from Uttar Pradesh

Raaj Vishwakarma (born 28 march 1995) is an Indian Actor. Who primarily appears in Hindi Films.

Raaj Vishwakarma grew up in Rajapur, Chitrakoot, Uttar Preadesh. His debut film is Running Shaadi.

[[American Descendants of Slavery (ADOS)]]

CATEGORIES: African-American history

American Descendants of Slavery, abbreviated as ADOS, refers to an ethnic and racial group composed of people whose ancestors were taken by force from sub-Saharan Africa to the United States starting from the 16th century until the 19th century and forced to work as slaves under threat of violence, including rape, torture and murder.

[[Saadi Yacef]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, Political activists, Military people, People from Algiers, Algerian politicians, Movie actors

Saadi Yacef (20 January 1928 – 10 September 2021) was an Algerian activist. He was the leader of Algeria's National Liberation Front during his country's war of independence. He was a Senator in Algeria's Council of the Nation until his death. He was born in Algiers, Algeria. An actor, he appeared in The Battle of Algiers.

Yacef died on 10 September 2021 in Algiers at the age of 93.

[[Mohammed V of Morocco]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1961 deaths, Kings of Morocco

Mohammed al-Khamis ben Yusef ben Hassan al-Alawi (محمد الخامس بن يوسف بن الحسن بن محمد بن عبد الرحمن بن هشام بن محمد بن عبد الله بن إسماعيل بن الشريف بن علي العلوي), also known as Sidi Mohammed ben Yusef (سيدي محمد بن يوسف) or Mohammed V (محمد الخامس) (10 August 1909 – 26 February 1961), was Sultan of Morocco from 1927 to 1953. He became Sultan again after his return from exile in 1955. He was King from 1957 to 1961.

[[Aziz Akhannouch]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Morocco, Current national leaders, African businesspeople

Aziz Akhannouch (عزيز أخنوش; born 1961) is a Moroccan politician and businessman. Akhannouch is the Prime Minister of Morocco since 2021. He was Minister of Agriculture from 2007 to 2021, and President of the regional council of Souss-Massa region from 2003 to 2007. He became Secretary General of National Rally of Independents party since 2016.

On the Forbes list of richest men in Africa in 2020, Akhennouch was 12th.

[[Marianne Battani]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, American lawyers, American judges, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians, Cancer deaths in Michigan

Marianne Olga Battani (May 18, 1944 – September 9, 2021) was an American politician and lawyer. She was the United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan from 2000 until her death. She was nominated to the court by President Bill Clinton. Battani was born in Detroit, Michigan.

Battani died on September 9, 2021 in Beverly Hills, Michigan from cancer, aged 77.

[[Derek Bailey (tribal chairman)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American sex offenders, Politicians from Michigan, Criminals from Michigan, Native American people, People from Traverse City, Michigan, US Democratic Party politicians, People who died in prison custody in the United States

Derek J. Bailey (1972 – September 2, 2021) was an American tribal leader and convicted sex offender. He was Tribal Chairman of the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians (GTB) beginning in 2008 until 2021.  He also served prior on Tribal Council from 2004 to 2008.  

On October 1, 2011, Bailey announced his candidacy for the U.S. House of Representatives in Michigan's 1st congressional district.  During April 2012, Bailey ended his Congressional campaign effort. He was born in Traverse City, Michigan.

On May 11, 2015, he was arrested on child molestation charges. Bailey was sentenced to 25 to 50 years after being found guilty in Grand Traverse County.

Bailey died on September 2, 2021 from a heart attack in prison in Traverse City at the age of 48.

[[Suttons Bay Township, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Michigan, Townships in Michigan

Suttons Bay Township is a civil township and county seat of Leelanau County in the U.S. state of Michigan.  The population was 2,982 at the 2010 census.

[[Suttons Bay, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Michigan

Suttons Bay is a village in Leelanau County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 618 at the 2010 census. 

[[Leland, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Michigan, Unincorporated communities in Michigan, Census-designated places in Michigan

Leland is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in the U.S. state of Michigan. As of the 2010 census it had a population of 377. It was the county seat of Leelanau County from 1883 to 2008.

[[Wayne State University]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s establishments in Michigan, 1868 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Michigan, Buildings and structures in Detroit, Michigan

Wayne State University (WSU) is a public research university in Detroit, Michigan. It is Michigan's third-largest university. It was founded in 1868. 

[[Phùng Quang Thanh]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Vietnamese military people, Vietnamese politicians

Phùng Quang Thanh (2 February 1949 – 11 September 2021) was Vietnamese politician and general. Phùng Quang Thanh was an officer of the Vietnam People's Army and a member of the Politburo of the Communist Party of Vietnam. 

Thahn died on 11 September 2021 in Hanoi, Vietnam from lung cancer at the age of 72.

[[Dalal bint Saud Al Saud]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 deaths, Saudi Arabian people, Princes and princesses, Deaths from cancer

Dalal bint Saud Al Saud (died 10 September 2021) was a Saudi princess, activist, and philanthropist. She was a member of House of Saud. She was known for her activities about the welfare children. She was the daughter of King Saud. 

Princess Dalal was the first wife of Saudi royal and businessman Al Waleed bin Talal Al Saud.

In February 2021, Dalal had surgery to remove a tumor. She died on 10 September 2021 from the disease.

[[Limbo (game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 video games, Android (operating system) games, iOS games, Linux games, Nintendo Switch games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation 4 games, PlayStation Vita games, Windows games, Xbox 360 games, Xbox One games

Limbo is a puzzle-platform video game, developed and published by Playdead. Released on various consoles, such as PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Linux, Android, iOS, OS X, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PlayStation Vita and Nintendo Switch.

[[Life Begins at Eight-Thirty]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on plays, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Irving Pichel

Life Begins at Eight-Thirty is a 1942 American romantic drama movie directed by Irving Pichel and was based on the 1940 play The Light of Heart by Emlyn Williams. It stars Monty Woolley, Ida Lupino, Cornel Wilde, Sara Allgood, Melville Cooper, Lee Phelps, William Demarest and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Jón Sigurðsson (politician, born 1946)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Icelandic politicians, Business people, Deaths from prostate cancer

Jón Sigurðsson (23 August 1946 – 10 September 2021) was an Icelandic politician. He was the Minister of Industry and Commerce for the Progressive Party from 2006 until 2007. He was later elected party chairman from 2006 to 2007. He was Governor of the Central Bank of Iceland from 2003 to 2006.

In 2020, Sigurðsson was diagnosed with terminal prostate cancer. He died from the illness on 10 September 2021, aged 75.

[[Issei Kitagawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Japanese politicians

Issei Kitagawa was a Japanese politician. He was a member of the Liberal Democratic Party. He was a member of the House of Councillors in the Diet from 2004 until 2016. Kitagawa was born in Higashiōsaka, Japan

Kitagawa died on September 7, 2021 in Osaka, Japan from prostate cancer, aged 78.

[[National September 11 Memorial & Museum]]

CATEGORIES: National Memorials of the United States, September 11 attacks, Buildings and structures in New York City

The National September 11 Memorial & Museum (also known as the 9/11 Memorial & Museum) is a memorial and museum in New York City honoring the victims of the September 11, 2001 attacks, which killed 2,977 people, and the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, which killed six. 

[[Pentagon Memorial]]

CATEGORIES: September 11 attacks, Monuments and memorials in the United States, Buildings and structures in Virginia

The Pentagon Memorial, is located at The Pentagon in Arlington County, Virginia. It is a permanent outdoor memorial to the 184 people who died as victims in the building and on American Airlines Flight 77 during the September 11, 2001 attacks.

It was designed by Julie Beckman and Keith Kaseman. The memorial opened on September 11, 2008, seven years after the attack.

[[Flight 93 National Memorial]]

CATEGORIES: September 11 attacks, National Memorials of the United States, Buildings and structures in Pennsylvania

The Flight 93 National Memorial commemorates the crash of United Airlines Flight 93, which was one of four planes that was hijacked during the September 11 attacks. The memorial is located in Stonycreek Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania, about 2 north of Shanksville and 60 southeast of Pittsburgh.

The first phase of the permanent memorial was completed, opened, and dedicated on September 10, 2011.

[[Stonycreek Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in Pennsylvania

Stonycreek Township is a township in Somerset County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 2,221 at the 2000 census. 

[[Safety in numbers]]

CATEGORIES: Coevolution, CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list, CS1: long volume value, Pages with unreviewed translations, Traffic

Individuals that are part of a larger group are less likely to be the victim of an accident, attack, or other bad event. This idea is called  safety in numbers. Related theories show that mass behaviour can reduce accident risks. In the case of traffic safety, the effect really reduces the danger, rather than simply distributing it over a larger group.

[[Tak Mojo Mistake]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games, THQ games, Platform games

[[Saleh Al-Fawzan]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Muslims, Imam Muhammad ibn Saud Islamic University alumni, Saudi Arabian Salafis

Saleh Bin Fawzan Al-Fawzan is considered to be the most senior scholar of the Salafi movement in Saudi Arabia. He is a member of the council of senior scholars and committee for fatwa and research. He has authored over 35 books and is one of the major Muftis in the country.

[[Al-Baqarah]]

CATEGORIES: Al-Baqara, Cattle in literature, Chapters in the Quran, Cattle in religion, Jihad, Surah

Al-Baqarah, ("The Heifer" or "The Cow"), is the second and longest chapter (surah) of the Quran. It consists of 286 verses (āyāt).

[[Āyah]]

CATEGORIES: Components of the Quran

Ayah (Arabic: آية āyah, plural آيات āyāt); is the Arabic word for omen, sign, proof, commandment, law, rule and/or guidance. The word is usually used to refer to a verse of the Qur’an. An ayah is the smallest unit of the Qur’an; Muslims believe that each of the 6236 ayah of the Qur’an is a sign from God (called Allāh in Arabic).  Chapters in the Qur’an, called surah in Arabic, are made up of several ayahs, though a sura may vary greatly in length, ranging from 3 to 286 ayahs. such as:

[[Surah Al-Imran]]

CATEGORIES: Surah, Chapters in the Quran, Qur'an articles needing attention, Joachim, Jesus in Islam

Al-Imran ( Arabic : آل عمران) is the third surah of the Muslim religious book, the Qur'an , with 200 verses and 20 ruku's. Surah Al-Imran has been revealed in Medina.

[[Surah An-Nisa]]

CATEGORIES: Surah

Surah An-Nisa ( Arabic: سورة النساء, Sūratu an-Nisā, meaning "female") is the fourth surah of the Muslim religious book, the Qur'an , with 16 verses and 24 ruku's. Surah An-Nisa has been revealed in Medina . This surah talks about how Muslims should lead their lives and stay united.

[[Surah Al-Ma'idah]]

CATEGORIES: Surah

Surah Al-Maidah (Arabic: سورة المائدة) is the 5th surah of the Muslim religious book, the Qur'an , which has 120 verses and 18 ruku's. The Surah was revealed in Medina.

[[Surah Al-An'am]]

CATEGORIES: Surah

Surah Al-An'am (Arabic: سورة الأنعام, "meaning the animal") Muslim religious texts of the Qur'an 6 Number of Surat , the number of verses 165 and the number of rukura. This Surah was revealed in Makkah . This Surah Allah's Oneness, punarutthana, Heaven and Hell have been discussed.

[[Surah Al-A'raf]]

CATEGORIES: Surah

Surah Al-A'raf (Arabic: سورة الأعراف, meaning "high place") is the seventh book of the Muslim religious book, the Qur'an , with 206 verses and 24 ruku's. This Surah was revealed in Makkah . The central theme of this Surah is the call to believe in the Prophethood.

[[Phyllomedusa neildi]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

Phyllomedusa neildi is a frog that lives in Venezuela.  Scientists have only seen this frog in one place: Sierra de San Luís.

[[Surah Al-Anfal]]

CATEGORIES: Surah

[[Surah At-Tawbah]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran, Surah

Surah At-Tawbah (Arabic: سورة التوبة , "Repentance"), also known as Surah Bar'ah or Bar'at (Rejection) is the ninth surah of the Muslim religious book, the Qur'an . This Surah was revealed in Medina and has 129 verses. Arabic repentance means forgiveness. It is called Surah Tawba, because it describes the acceptance of Muslims' repentance. The other name of the surah is Bara'at - it is called Bara'at because it refers to the separation of the disbelievers from the disbelievers and their release from responsibility.

[[Surah Yunus]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran, Surah

Surah Yunus (Arabic: سورة يونس) is the tenth surah of the Qur'an , a religious book for Muslims. This Surah was revealed in Makkah and has 109 verses. Koraana and the principles of Islam uddesyabali this Surah Tawheed , Prophethood , Hereafter etc. bisbacaracara the merits and the evidence showing the changing-changing events has been arranged to be understood better. Along with some didactic, historical events and the introduction of the story he has to be careful of all the people who have God, the Cherisher and the public on the signs do not think about it.

[[Surah Al-Fatihah]]

CATEGORIES: Al-Fatiha, Chapters in the Quran, Salah, Surah

Surah Al-Fatihah (Arabic: سورة الفاتحة) is the first surah of the Muslim religious book, the Qur'an , with 6 verses and 1 ruku. The word Fatiha is derived from the Arabic word "Fathun" which means "opening up". This is a special reward from God. Surah Fatiha, like other Surahs, begins with Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem. Since Surah Al-Fatihah was revealed in Makkah , it is classified as Makkah Surah . Surah Fatiha is also called the Integral Surah because it cannot be broken down. There is no provision for breaking Surah Fatiha.

[[Sukh Mhanje Nakki Kay Asta]]

Sukh Mhanje Nakki Kay Asta! (transl. What Exactly Is Happiness!) is a Marathi television drama series on Star Pravah produced by Mahesh Kothare and Adinath Kothare.

[[List of chapters in the Quran]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran, Surah

Quran is divided into Surahs (chapters) and further divided into Ayahs (verses).

[[The Last Girl (memoir)]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 books, Memoirs, Terrorist attacks, Iraq War, Iraq, Persecution of Yazidis by ISIL, Sex crimes, Imprisonment and detention of women, Violence against women in Asia, Violence, 21st-century Iraqi women, Books about ISIS, Collaborative memoirs

The Last Girl: My Story of Captivity, and My Fight Against the Islamic State is a autobiographical book by Nadia Murad in which she tells how she was captured and enslaved by the Islamic State during the Second Iraqi Civil War. Murad won the 2018 Nobel Peace Prize for this book.

[[Child A]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 births, 2019 deaths

[[First-wave feminism]]

CATEGORIES: First-wave feminism

First-wave feminism was a time of feminist activity and thought in the Western world.  It happened during the 19th and early 20th century. It focused on laws about women, mainly giving women the right to vote.  Later waves of feminism would focus on things like economic equality and social equality.

Journalist Martha Lear was the first to call it first-wave feminism. She did this in an article she wrote for New York Times Magazine in March 1968.  It was called "The Second Feminist Wave: What do these women want?" First-wave feminism focused on women's power under law.  Second-wave feminism was about economic and social power, for example, equal pay for equal work.

In her book The Second Sex, Simone de Beauvoir wrote that the first woman to "take up her pen in defense of her sex" was Christine de Pizan. Christine de Pizan wrote in the 15th century. Feminists Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa and Modesta di Pozzo di Forzi worked in the 16th century. Marie le Jars de Gournay, Anne Bradstreet and François Poullain de la Barre's Equality of sexes came out in 1673.

[[Tom yum]]

CATEGORIES: Food and drink, Soups

Tom yum or tom yam is a type of hot and sour soup that originated in Thailand. It is usually contains prawn. The other basic ingredients used for cooking this soup include lemon grass, galangal and kaffir lime leaves along with chillies, tomatoes, coriander and fish sauce.

[[Army general]]

CATEGORIES: Military ranks

Army general is a military term, title or name which many countries refer or give to the rank of general that usually command an army in the field. 

[[Janalynn Castelino]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1998 births, Singers, Singer-songwriters, Pop singers, Italian singers, English singers, Latin singers

Janalynn Castelino (Born: October 18, 1998) is a pop & R&B singer, songwriter and doctor. She sings in many languages including English, Latin, Hindi, Spanish, etc.

[[Ramón Colón-López]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American military people

Ramón Colón-López (born October 21, 1971) is a United States Air Force pararescueman.

[[Devar Jee Angne Mein Hain!]]

Devar Jee Angne Mein Hain! (transl. Brother-in-law is in the courtyard ) is an Indian television Romseries that aired from 8 March 2021 to 10 September 2021 on Sony SAB.  Produced by Edit II Production, it stars Priyamvada Kant and Gaurav Sareen.

[[Craig R. McKinley]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Military people from Florida

Craig Richard McKinley (born May 6, 1952) is a retired United States Air Force general. He served as the 26th Chief of the National Guard Bureau that succeeded in getting four-star general.

[[Florida Air National Guard]]

CATEGORIES: United States Air Force, 1947 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in Florida

The Florida Air National Guard (FL ANG) is an airforce organization of the State of Florida, United States of America. 

[[Murder of Dean Shillingsworth]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 births, 2007 deaths, 2007 crimes, Children victims of violence

Children discovered the body of Dean Shillingsworth (25 February 2001 – 11 October 2007) in a pond in Mandurama Reserve at Ambarvale, New South Wales, Australia on 17 October 2007. The child's body was wrapped in two plastic bags. It was inside a tartan suitcase. The body had been in the water for a long time, and had started to decompose.  The local police set up a crime scene which was investigated by NSW Police Forensic Services Group.  The forensic evidence and investigation led to the boy's mother, Rachel Pfitzner, who lived in nearby Rosemeadow. Police later arrested her. She was charged with Dean's murder. She did not seek bail and was remanded in custody. 

[[Mandy La Candy]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, LGBT people from Nigeria

Mandy La Candy  is a Canada-based Nigerian transgender woman.

In 2016, she posted photo of herself and nude photo of Melania Trump's, wife of the former US president; Donald Trump, gotten from an old playboy magazine with a caption; "If Melanie with such photos can become a first lady looking like this, why can’t I".

[[Extinct (2021 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 movies, 2020s comedy movies, 2020s science fiction movies, American animated movies, English-language movies

Extinct is an 2021 Canadian-American computer animated comic science fiction adventure movie directed by David Silverman and Raymond S. Persi and produced by HB Wink Animation, Tencent Pictures, Huayi Brothers, Timeless Films, Tolerable Entertainment and Cinesite and distributed by Entertainment Studios, releasing in Theatrical from October 16, 2021 in United States.

[[Anthony Veasna So]]

CATEGORIES: American short story writers

Anthony Veasna So was an American writer. He wrote short stories.

National Public Radio (in USA) and Morgenbladet (in Norway), each had a book review about (his book), Afterparties. The publisher of the book, is Ecco.

He was born in 1992 and died in 2020.

[[Khobar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Saudi Arabia

Khobar is a city in the eastern province of Saudi Arabia, located on the coast of the Persian Gulf. It is one of the most populous cities in the Gulf Cooperation Council, with a population of 9,41,357 in 2012.

[[Abdul-Aziz ibn Abdullah Aal Al-Sheikh]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Blind academics, Saudi Arabian imams, Saudi Arabian Sunni Muslim scholars of Islam, 20th-century imams, 21st-century imams, Saudi Arabian Quran reciters, Saudi Arabian Salafis, Grand Muftis of Saudi Arabia, 1943 births

'Abdullah Aziz Ibn 'Abdullah Ibn Muhammad Ibn' Abdullah Linf Al-Sheikh (Arabic: عبد العزيز بن عبد الله بن محمد بن عبد اللطيف الشيخ) (born 30 November 1943) is a Muslim scholar and current Chief Mufti of Saudi Arabia. As Grand Mufti, he is the head of the Standing Committee on Islamic Studies and Fatwas on Issues.

[[Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic terminology, Arabic words and phrases, Al-Fatiha, Quranic verses, Arabic calligraphy

In the Name of God the Merciful, the Compassionate or Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem (Arabic: 'بِسْمِ ٱللَّٰهِ ٱلرَّحْمَٰنِ ٱلرَّحِيمِ) is an Arabic phrase meaning "in the name of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful . " Bismillah is abbreviated. The Holy Qur'an 114 of Surah Al-repentance other than the rest of the chapter 113 has been started, "Bismillahir Rahmanir Rahim with". It is alsoknown from the hadith that the Prophet of Islam, Muhammad ,used to say "Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem" ​​before starting any work. In many works "Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem" There are instructions to say or write. In legal terms, even if it is masnun or mustahab, its significance is very deep.

[[Yugo]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s automobiles, 1960s automobiles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 1950s establishments in the Soviet Union, 1953 establishments, 2008 disestablishments

The Yugo, also classified through the names Zastava Koral and Yugo Koral, was a subcompact hatchback vehicle. It was manufactured between 2000 and 2008 by the Zastava Automobiles, then a Yugoslavian vehicle-production company. Before 2000, these automobiles were produced from completely different vehicle-making businesses.

The first vehicles were produced in August 1953. They used designs licensed  by the Fiat of Turin. The cars came into the United States in 1985. The automobiles were called Yugo when being manufactured in the United States.

Yugo America sold these vehicles between August 1985 and 1992. They weren't exactly good performers on American roads. Yugo vehicles did not speed fast enough. They were called the worst vehicles in American history.

[[Abimael Guzmán]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Peruvian people, Communists, Political activists, Terrorists, People who died in prison custody

Manuel Rubén Abimael Guzmán Reinoso (maˈnwel ruˈβen aβimaˈel ɡusˈman rejˈnoso; 3 December 1934 − 11 September 2021), also known by his nom de guerre Chairman Gonzalo (Presidente Gonzalo), was a Peruvian Maoist leader. 

He founded the Communist Party of Peru – Shining Path in 1969. He led a terrorist campaign against the Peruvian government until he was arrested in September 1992. He was sentenced to life imprisonment for terrorism and treason.

In July 2021, Guzmán was hospitalized after refusing to eat. He died on 11 September 2011 in Callao, Peru at the age of 86.

[[Mick Tingelhoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Cancer deaths in the United States, American football centers, Minnesota Vikings players, Sportspeople from Nebraska

Henry Michael Tingelhoff (May 22, 1940spndSeptember 11, 2021) was an American football center. He played for the Minnesota Vikings of the National Football League (NFL) from 1962 to 1978. He was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2015. He was born in Lexington, Nebraska.

Tingelhoff died on September 11, 2021 from cancer at the age of 81.

[[Tommy Hazouri]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, American mayors, Politicians from Jacksonville, Florida, US Democratic Party politicians, Deaths from lung disease, Deaths from surgical complications, Organ transplant recipients

Tommy Hazouri (October 11, 1944 – September 11, 2021) was an American politician. He was a member of the Democratic Party. He was a member of the Florida House of Representatives from 1974 to 1986. He was Mayor of Jacksonville from 1987 to 1991. Hazouri was born in Jacksonville.

Hazouri died on September 11, 2021 at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota ​from problems caused by a lung transplant at the age of 76.

[[Friedrich Wilhelm Kritzinger]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1947 deaths, Politicians of the Nazi Party, Members of the Reichstag (Nazi Germany)

Friedrich Wilhelm Kritzinger (14 April 1890spnd25 April 1947) was a German politician. He was an official and state secretary in the Reich Chancellery during the Nazi Germany era. He was the deputy head of the Reich Chancellery under Hans Lammers.

Kritzinger was eventually arrested, along with most of the other surviving members of the Wannsee Conference, in 1946. During the Nuremberg Trials, where he was a witness, he said he was ashamed of his actions during the Nazi regime. He was released in April 1946 but then arrested again in December of the same year. 

[[Muhammad Taqi Usmani]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Pakistani Islamic religious leaders

Justice Maulana Mufti Muhammad Taqi Usmani (born 1943) is a prominent Islamic figure in Pakistan. He is an expert in Islamic jurisprudence, hadith, economics and tasawwuf. He has been selected as the most influential Muslim person in the world. He is currently one of the most active figures in Islamic economics. He was a judge of the Central Shariah Court of Pakistan from 1980 to 1982 and the Shariah Appeal Bench of the Supreme Court of Pakistan from 1982 to 2002. He is the author of the famous commentary "Maariful Qur'an" by Mufti Shafi Usmani. Son and brother of two famous Islamic personalities Maulana Rafi Usmani and Maulana Wali Razi.

[[Peter Arnold (cricketer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, New Zealand cricketers, People from Wellington

Arnold Peter Arnold (16 October 1926 – 7 September 2021) was a New Zealand cricketer. He played first-class cricket from 1951 to 1960. He was a right-handed batsman. He was born in Wellington, New Zealand. He played for Northamptonshire from 1951 to 1960, and for Canterbury in New Zealand for one season in 1953–54.

Arnold died on 7 September 2021 at the age of 94.

[[Mufti (title)]]

CATEGORIES: Arabic words and phrases in Sharia, Islamic legal occupations, Religious leadership roles, Islamic honorifics, Muftis, Lawyers by type

Mufti (/ˈmʌfti/; Arabic: مفتي‎), an Islamic legal authority who gives a formal legal opinion (fatwa) in answer to an inquiry by a private individual or judge. A fatwa usually requires knowledge of the Qur'ān and Hadith (narratives concerning the Prophet’s life and sayings), as well as knowledge of exegesis and collected precedents, and might be a pronouncement on some problematic legal matter.

[[Guilherme Posser da Costa]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of São Tomé and Príncipe

Guilherme Posser da Costa (born 18 May 1953) is a São Toméan politician. He was the Prime Minister of São Tomé and Príncipe from 1999 to 2001.

Posser da Costa was Minister of Foreign Affairs: 1987-1988, 1990-1991, and 1994-1996. He unsuccessfully ran for President of São Tomé and Príncipe in 2021, losing to Carlos Vila Nova.

[[Leylah Fernandez]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 births, Living people, Canadian tennis players, Sportspeople from Montreal

Leylah Annie Fernandez (born 6 September 2002) is a Canadian professional tennis player. She won her first WTA Tour singles title at the 2021 Monterrey Open. She has a career-high singles ranking of world No. 66. She made it to the 2021 US Open final but lost. She was born in Montreal, Quebec.

[[Laura Ziskin]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, Movie producers from Los Angeles, California, Cancer deaths in California

Laura Ellen Ziskin (March 3, 1950 – June 12, 2011) was an American movie producer. She was the executive producer of the romantic comedy Pretty Woman (1990). She was the first woman to produce the Academy Awards telecast alone. Ziskin was born in San Fernando Valley, California. 

Ziskin was married to Alvin Sargent between 2010 until her death. 

Ziskin died on June 12, 2011 from breast cancer in Santa Monica, California at the age of 61.

[[Hallsville, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Hallsville is a city in Harrison County, Texas, United States.

[[Scottsville, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Scottsville is a city in Harrison County, Texas, United States.

[[Groves, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Groves is a city in Jefferson County, Texas, United States.

[[Nome, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Nome is a city in Jefferson County, Texas, United States.

[[Port Neches, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Port Neches is a city in Jefferson County, Texas, United States.

[[Taylor Landing, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Taylor Landing is a city in Jefferson County, Texas, United States.

[[Reno, Lamar County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Reno is a city in Lamar County, Texas, United States.

[[Roxton, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Roxton is a city in Lamar County, Texas, United States.

[[Sun Valley, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Sun Valley is a city in Lamar County, Texas, United States.

[[Toco, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Toco is a city in Lamar County, Texas, United States.

[[Bridge City, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Bridge City is a city in Orange County, Texas, United States.

[[Pine Forest, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Pine Forest is a city in Orange County, Texas, United States.

[[Pinehurst, Orange County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Pinehurst is a city in Orange County, Texas, United States.

[[Rose City, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Rose City is a city in Orange County, Texas, United States.

[[West Orange, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

West Orange is a city in Orange County, Texas, United States.

[[Hideaway, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Hideaway is a city in Smith County, Texas, United States.

[[Lindale, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Lindale is a city in Smith County, Texas, United States.

[[New Chapel Hill, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

New Chapel Hill is a city in Smith County, Texas, United States.

[[Noonday, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Noonday is a city in Smith County, Texas, United States.

[[Whitehouse, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Whitehouse is a city in Smith County, Texas, United States.

[[Lake Bridgeport, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Lake Bridgeport is a city in Wise County, Texas, United States.

[[New Fairview, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

New Fairview is a city in Wise County, Texas, United States.

[[Paradise, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Paradise is a city in Wise County, Texas, United States.

[[Runaway Bay, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Runaway Bay is a city in Wise County, Texas, United States.

[[Black stilt]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

The black stilt or kaki (Himantopus novaezelandiae) is a bird in the family Recurvirostridae.  It lives in New Zealand.

[[Craig Plestis]]

CATEGORIES: American television producers, Living people

Craig Plestis is the president and CEO of Smart Dog Media, a reality programming production company. Pletis is an executive producer of The Masked Singer and I Can See Your Voice. Pletis was the executive producer behind the NBC singing game show, The Winner Is hosted by Nick Lachey, in parnership with Taipa Media. Pletis was also the creator and executive producer of more than 70 episodes of the game show hits Minute to Win It, hosted by Guy Fieri, and the winner of teh International FRAPA Award for the Best Studio Based Game Show. He also executive produced NBC's Who Still Standing?, a game show that featured contestants falling through trap doors after answering trivia questions incorrectly.

Later, Smart Dog Media launched Robot Combat League, the world's first giant fighting robot competition series for the Syfy Channel in 2013.

As the NBC's former Executive Vice President, Alternative Programming, Craig Pletis oversaw all alternative programming and development for the network, including the game show hit series Deal or No Deal, The Biggest Loser, The Apprentice, The Singing Bee, America's Got Talent, and 1 vs. 100, among others. His responbilities also included overseeing NBC's Golden Globe Awards.

In March 2021, it was reported that Pletis had strikes a deal with Japan's Tokyo Broadcasting System to develop unscripted formats, for the U.S. and Global markets. One month later, he became executive producer for the new TV series Unicorn Hunters, a business investment show.

[[Ilyas Qadri]]

CATEGORIES: Dawat-e-Islami, Pakistani clergy, 1950 births, Living people

Sheikh Muhammad Ilyas Attar Qadiri is a leader of the Qadiriyyah, Radaviyyah, Attariya branch of the Qadiriyyah Sufi order. Qadiri is a widely-respected sheikh with a significant global following which is supported by the Madani TV Channel. In 1981, the Sheikh founded Dawat-e-Islami, a Sunni Barelwi revivalist movement with hundreds of thousands of followers in Pakistan and over 180 other countries. It centres on the propagation of Islamic knowledge and manages two main activities: the Jamia-tul-Madina chain of religious schools, and the non-commercial Madani TV channel.

[[Qubo Night Owl]]

CATEGORIES: American television

The Qubo Night Owl was a programming block at night that ran from 12AM to 6AM (Eastern Time). Originally the block was similar to Nick at Nite, as it was aimed at adults who grew up on the Filmation slate (He-Man, She-Ra, Ghostbusters, and BraveStarr), with newer shows airing at the tail end. In August 2013, however, the contract for the Filmation shows lapsed and newer acquisitions filled the block. The block suffered network decay (or in this case, "block decay") for most of its run, adding preschool shows and shows for older kids that would be normally seen during the daytime hours as opposed to the undesirable graveyard slots. After five and a half years of abandoning its original focus, the block appeared for the final time on January 7, 2019, as it was replaced with infomercials the following day, marking the first time the channel has followed the trope of networks airing infomercials during the graveyard hours (even though it was stated in a 2010 sizzle reel that they would never do such a thing, proving further that time does fly by fast in a decade). From January 8-June 17, 2019, the screen bug for Qubo Night Owl only appeared during the midnight hour (when Sidekick, Zoo Clues and Safari Tracks usually aired at the time). As of March 1, 2021, the Qubo Night Owl screen bug appears again and returned.

[[Rakat]]

CATEGORIES: Islam

Rak'ah ( ركعة‎‎ rak'ah, plural: ركعات rakaʿāt), consists of the prescribed movements while offering prayers to God (Allah). It refers to a single unit of Islamic prayers.

[[Sujud]]

CATEGORIES: Salah, Sujud

Sujud (Arabic: سُجدة), or prostration (Arabic: سجدة),  also known as sijdah is a part of prayer. Standing from ruku, then prostration is done by touching the forehead and nose on the ground. At the same time the knees and palms are placed on the ground. Sijdah is one of the essential parts of prayers. The prostration is to face the Kaaba. During Sijdah, one has to recite Tasbeeh of Subhana Rabbiyal Ala (سُبْحَانَ رَبِّيَ الْأَعْلَى).

[[Unayzah]]

CATEGORIES: Unaizah, Populated places in Al-Qassim Province

Unayzah (Paris Najd) is one of Al-Qassim cities which are located in Saudi Arabia. It is an ancient historical city. The city got its importance long ago due to its unique geographical location. It is in the north central part of Najd plateau and toward the south of the stream of Arrimah valley, the largest valley in the Arabian Peninsula.

[[Eternal Sonata]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, PlayStation 3 games, Video games developed in Japan, Xbox 360 games

Eternal Sonata is an role-playing video game developed by tri-Crescendo and published by Namco Bandai Games.

[[Traditionalist theology (Islam)]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic philosophical schools, Islamic theology, Sunni Islam

Traditionalist theology (Arabic: الأثرية‎—al-Aṯharīya) is an Islamic scholarly movement, originating in the late 8th century CE, who reject rationalistic Islamic theology (kalam) in favor of strict textualism in interpreting the Quran and Hadith. The name derives from "tradition" in its technical sense as a translation of the Arabic word athar. It is also sometimes referred to by several other names.

[[Ahmad ibn Hanbal]]

CATEGORIES: 780 births, 855 deaths, 8th-century Arabs, 9th-century Arabic writers, 9th-century Arabs, 9th-century jurists, 9th-century Muslim scholars of Islam, 9th-century people of the Abbasid Caliphate, Hadith compilers, Sunni imams

Imam Ahmad bin Muhammad bin Humble Abu Abdullah Al-Shaibani (60-655 AD/164-241 AH) (Arabic: بنحمد بن محمد بن حنبل أبو عبد الله الشياڻي), was a famous Islamic figure, scholar of Islamic law and hadith. One of the four traditional schools of Islam, the Hanbali school, is based on its interpretation. Imam Ahmad Shaikhul Islam is known in the Muslim world . Musnad, a collection of hadiths compiled by Imam Ahmad, is considered his great work.

[[Yoshinori Ono]]

CATEGORIES: Video game people, Living people, Street Fighter

Yoshinori Ono (Ono Yoshinori) is a Japanese video game producer and former sound producer and composer. He joined Capcom in 1998, where he acted as producer of Street Fighter series up to Street Fighter V.

[[Michelle Benson]]

CATEGORIES: US Republican Party politicians, United States senators from Minnesota, 1968 births, Living people

Michelle Benson (born September 11, 1968, western Minnesota) is an American politician, member for the Minnesota Senate in the Republican Party and accountant. She operates with District 31. The District includes sections of Sherburne, Isanti and Anoka counties near the northern Twin Cities regional area.

[[Muhammad ibn Ibrahim Al ash-Sheikh]]

CATEGORIES: Muslims, 1890 births, 1969 deaths, Grand Muftis of Saudi Arabia

Muhammad ibn Ibrahim ibn Abd al-Latif ibn Abd al-Rahman ibn Hassan ibn Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab Al ash-Sheikh Al Tamimi (1893-1989) was an Islamic scholar and former Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia. He served as Grand Mufti from 1953 until his death in 1989. He was considered a respected scholar during the reigns of three successive kings of Saudi Arabia.

[[Street Fighter (1994 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 movies, Street Fighter

Street Fighter is an American 1994 action movie written and directed by Steven E. de Souza, it is based on the video game series of the same name published by Capcom. Distributed by Universal Pictures in the United States and internationally by Columbia Pictures.

[[Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic religious leaders, Saudi Arabian people

Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia is the highest religious authority in the country. The king himself appointed one to the post. The ex-officio Grand Mufti became a permanent member of the Standing Committee on Ilmi Research and Fatwas.

[[Serta]]

CATEGORIES: Companies, Retail markets, 1931 establishments

Serta is an American company based in Hoffman Estates, Illinois that specializes in developing and manufacturing mattresses.

[[Grand Mufti]]

CATEGORIES: Grand Muftis

Mufti (Arabic: mfty am mufti am  or kbyr almftyn kabir al-muftin ) mainly Sunni and ibadi Muslim countries, Islamic religious maximum terms. He mainly provides detailed explanations and fatwas on Islamic jurisprudence. He also assists state judges in the trial.

[[Pumyat]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei culture, Meitei clothing

A pumyat or  pumyaat (/poom-yaat/) is a traditional Meitei Manipuri dress, worn by menfolk on special occasions. It is popularly worn in ceremonial occasions as a common dress in Manipur, North East India. It is mainly white in colour. Typically, a pumyat is a shirt with long sleeves. 

In Meitei culture, a pumyat should always pairs with a pheichom (pheijom). This is also a common to the wedding bridegrooms in Meitei matrimony, with the addition of a kokyet (headdress). It is slightly similar to the kurtas, worn by the mainland Indian menfolk. 

[[Life with Father (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on plays, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Michael Curtiz

Life with Father is a 1947 American comedy movie directed by Michael Curtiz and was based on the 1935 autobiographical novel and adapted from the 1939 play of the same name. It stars William Powell, Irene Dunne, Elizabeth Taylor, Edmund Glenn, Jimmy Lydon, ZaSu Pitts, Emma Dunn, Elisabeth Risdon and was distributed by Warner Bros.. It was nominated for 4 Academy Awards in 1948.

[[Flatliners (2017 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 science fiction movies, 2017 horror movies, 2010s science fiction horror movies, American science fiction horror movies, Canadian horror movies, Movies directed by Niels Arden Oplev

Flatliners is a 2017 American Canadian science fiction horror movie directed by Niels Arden Oplev and is the remake of the 1990 movie of the same name. It stars Elliot Page, Diego Luna, Nina Dobrev, Kiersey Clemons, Kiefer Sutherland, Jenny Raven.

[[Maymunah bint al-Harith]]

CATEGORIES: 594 births, 674 deaths, Female Sahabah, Wives of Muhammad

Maymunah bint al-Harith al-Hilaliyah (Arabic: ميمونة بنت الحارث الهلالية, Maymūnah bint al-Ḥārith al-Hilālīyah, 594-63) was the wife of the last prophet of Islam, Muhammad. Her real name was Barrah, but Muhammad changed her name to Maymuna.

[[Muhammad's wives]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage in Islam, Wives of Muhammad, Lists of wives

Muhammad's wives, was the Prophet Muhammad's life that all women were married to Muslims, they Ummahat-Ul Mu'mineen of the Mother of Believers called.

[[Bisi Alimi]]

Bisi Alimi (born 17 January 1975) is a Nigerian HIV and LGBT advocate who gained international attention when he became the first Nigerian to come out on television.

Alimi came out as gay on a live television show in 2004. After the broadcast he was disowned by his family and arrested. He fled Nigeria in 2007 and claimed asylum in the UK, becoming a British citizen in 2014.

Alimi launched the Bisi Alimi Foundation in 2015, supporting research to influence rights for lesbian, gay and bisexual people in Nigeria.

In a 2014 interview on CNN, Alimi summarized their experience as: "And I had to, you know, face three years' ordeal in Nigeria which was very difficult. I couldn't get a job. I left university. Nobody was going to employ me. My life was constantly in danger. I was always beaten, arrested by the police, discharged. I was living for the day until when I had the opportunity to move to the United Kingdom."

[[John Challis]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from Bristol

John Spurley Challis (16 August 1942 – 19 September 2021) was an English actor. He was born in Bristol, England. His career began in 1964. He was best known for playing Terrance Aubrey "Boycie" Boyce in the long-running BBC Television sitcom Only Fools and Horses (1981–2003) and its sequel/spin-off The Green Green Grass (2005–2009). He also played Monty Staines in the ITV sitcom Benidorm from 2015 to 2018.

On 6 September 2021, Challis announced that he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in 2019. He died two weeks later on 19 September from the disease, aged 79.

[[Simon Shnoll]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Russian physicists, Russian historians, Russian academics, Soviet writers, Writers from Moscow

Simon El'evich Shnol (Симон Эльевич Шноль; 21 March 1930 – 11 September 2021) was a Russian biophysicist, and a historian of science. He was a professor at Moscow State University. He was a member of Russian Academy of Natural Sciences from 1990 until his death. 

Most of his works were about the oscillatory processes in biology, the theory of evolution, chronobiology, and the history of science.

Shnoll died in Moscow on 11 September 2021 at the age of 91.

[[Jacky Liew]]

CATEGORIES: Writer, Autobiographers, Living people, People from Malaysia, Computer scientists by nationality

Jacky Liew (Chinese: 廖城兰; Liao4 Cheng2 Lan2) born in 3rd August, better known by his pen name Shi Gongzi (Chinese: 食公子; Shi2 Gong1 Zi3), is a Chinese food columnist, writer and food critic in Malaysia. He is also widely recognized as the first food critic in Malaysia. He was born in Johor, Malaysia.  

[[Zombie bank]]

CATEGORIES: Finance

A zombie bank is a special case of a zombie company. It is a financial institution that has a net worth of less than zero. Usually, such companies file for bankruptcy. Like a zombie company, the zombie bank is still able to pay the short-term liabilities (such as the interest on its loans). It doesn't have enough money to repay the loans, though. If the interest rates are low, this will help zombie banks. Zombie banks, like zombie companies can be saved from bankruptcy, but usually they need a large (and costly) reorganization.

The term zombie bank (and zombie company) was first used to refer to a period of Japanese economy, in the 1990s: This period is known as Lost Decades, today.

[[Xia Yong]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese painters, Yuan dynasty painters

Xia Yong (Chinese: 夏永) was a painter during Yuan dynasty in 14th century.

[[Huang Daopo]]

CATEGORIES: 1240s births, Textile artists, Chinese inventors

Huang Daopo (Simplified Chinese: 黄道婆; Traditional Chinese: 黃道婆, 1245 – 1330) was a businesswomen whose rose from proverty to one of the most famous women in the early Chinese Textile Industry.

[[Kilab ibn Murrah]]

Kilab ibn Murrah (Arabic: كِلَاب ٱبْن مُرَّة) (born 363 AD), was the ancestor of the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him).

[[Sawdah bint Zam'ah]]

CATEGORIES: 674 deaths, Wives of Muhammad, 570 births

Sawdah bint Zam'ah was Muhammad's wife and was revered by Muslims as Ummat ul-Mu'mineen.

[[Stephanie Rose]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT people from Nigeria

Stephanie Rose is the first open Nigerian transgender woman.

She was a law student at Obafemi Awolowo University until being expelled in 2001 due to "identity crisis". After moving to live in the Netherlands, Rose had gender corrective surgery.

[[Hafsa bint Umar]]

CATEGORIES: Wives of Muhammad, 605 births, 660s deaths

Ḥafṣah bint 'Umar (Arabic: حفصة بنت عمر‎; c. 605–665), was the wife of the last prophet Muhammad. That is why he is respected as Ummat al-Mu'mineen. She was the daughter of the second caliph Umar ibn al-Khattab. He was born around 605 AD. This year the Quraish rebuilt the Kaaba.

[[Zaynab bint Khuzayma]]

CATEGORIES: 626 deaths, Wives of Muhammad, 595 births

Zaynab bint Khuzayma (Arabic: زينب بنت خزيمة, Umm al-Miskin , known as the "mother of the poor", born 595 CE) is a daughter of the Sulaim tribe of Arabia. Her first husband's name was Abdullah bin Jahash. He was martyred in the battle of Uhud on the 8th of Shawwal month of the third Hijri. Send marriage proposal to Zainab. If Zainab agreed to the proposal of the Prophet. He married her at the end of the month of Jilhaj this year with a dowry of 400 dirhams.

[[Prophets and messengers in Islam]]

CATEGORIES: Prophecy in Islam

Muslims believe that the first prophet was also the first human being, Adam, created by God. In the Quran, a total of twenty-five prophets are mentioned including Alyasa (Elisha), Ayyub (Job), Sulaiman (Solomon) and others. There are four Arab prophets mentioned in the Quran namely Hud, Saleh, Shuaib and Muhammad. The Tawrat (Torah) was revealed to Musa (Moses), Zabur (Psalms) was revealed to Dawud (David), and the Injil (Gospel) was revealed to Isa (Jesus).

[[Umm Salama]]

CATEGORIES: 580 births, 680 deaths, Wives of Muhammad

Umm Salama Hind bint Abi Umayya (Arabic: هند بنت أبي أمية) (c. 580 or 596 – 680 or 683) or abbreviated Umm Salamah or Hind bint Suhail (هِنْد ٱلْمَخْزُومِيَّة) is a wife of the Prophet Muhammad of Islam. Her real name was "Hind Al-Makhzumiya ".

[[Zaynab bint Jahsh]]

CATEGORIES: 590 births, 641 deaths, Wives of Muhammad

Zaynab bint Jahsh (Arabic: زينب بنت جحش; c. 590–641) was Muhammad's half-sister and his wife. For this reason, the Mother of the Believers Muslims as the honor.

[[Akwaeke Emezi]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT people from Nigeria

Akwaeke Emezi is a Nigerian Igbo and Tamil writer and video artist, best known for their 2018 debut novel Freshwater. Emezi identifies as non-binary.

[[Hawaii's congressional districts]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Hawaii

The U.S. state of Hawaii is divided into two congressional districts for representation in the United States House of Representatives.

[[Phyllomedusa boliviana]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The red-rimmed leaf frog (Phyllomedusa boliviana) is a frog that lives in Bolivia, Brazil, Argentina, and Paraguay.

[[Wisconsin's 1st congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Wisconsin

Wisconsin's 1st congressional district is a congressional district of the United States House of Representatives in southeastern Wisconsin. It covers Kenosha County, Racine County, and most of Walworth County, as well as portions of Rock County, Waukesha County, and Milwaukee County. The district's current representative is Republican Bryan Steil. 

[[Wisconsin's 2nd congressional district]]

CATEGORIES: Congressional districts of Wisconsin

Wisconsin's 2nd congressional district is a congressional district of the United States House of Representatives in southern Wisconsin. It covers Dane County, Iowa County, Lafayette County, Sauk County and Green County, as well as portions of Richland County and Rock County.  The district includes Madison, the state's capital, its suburbs and some of the areas nearby. 

The district's representative has been Democrat Mark Pocan since 2013.

[[The Day of the Jackal]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 books

The Day of the Jackal is a book.  Frederick Forsyth wrote it in 1971.  It became a bestseller.  It is about a plot to kill French head of state Charles De Galle in the summer of 1963.

[[Hamis Kiggundu]]

September 2021

Hamis Kiggundu (born 10 February 1984), is a Ugandan based multinational businessperson, Internet business starter, money-giver (to charity), and book writer.

He is the founder of the Ham Group of Companies a multinational company , and the writer of Success and Failure Based on Reason and Reality and Reason as the World Masterpiece.

He is one of the richest people in Uganda with a Net Value of US$870 Million employing about 7,000 people as reported by Forbes (March 2021 Forbes).

In March 2020, Kiggundu was featured boldly and clearly in Ugandan media for his court fight against Diamond Trust Bank. He accused (of a crime) that the bank cheated him over $30Million over the course of 10 years.

[[Vladimir Cerrón]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1970 births, Peruvian politicians

Vladimir Cerrón Rojas is a peruvian politician.

[[Site (disambiguation)]]

CATEGORIES: Disambiguation pages

A site is a real fixed physical location where something will or has happened or a place where something is. 

[[Chamber of Deputies of Paraguay]]

CATEGORIES: Paraguay

The Chamber of Deputies (Cámara de Diputados) is the lower house of Paraguay's bicameral legislature, the National Congress. It is made up of 80 members, elected for a five-year terms. The other chamber of the National Congress (Congreso Nacional) is the Chamber of Senators (Cámara de Senadores).

[[Congress of Paraguay]]

Paraguay's bicameral Congress (Congreso) made up of a 45-member Senate and an 

80-member Chamber of Deputies. It is the legislative branch of the Paraguayan state.

Both chambers of Congress are elected concurrently with the president. Deputies are elected by department and Senators on a nationwide basis.

[[Senate of Paraguay]]

CATEGORIES: Paraguay

The Chamber of Senators of Paraguay (Cámara de Senadores), the upper house of the National Congress. It has 45 members, elected for a five-year term. Bicameral legislature, which included the Senate, was formed in 1870. The Senate was removed in 1940 and recreated in 1967.

[[Carlo Chendi]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Italian comics artists, Cartoonists

[[Bernardino Cano Radil]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2021 deaths, Ambassadors, South American politicians, People from Asunción, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic

Bernardino Cano Radil (29 November 1955 – 12 September 2021) was a Paraguayan politician. He was a member of the Chamber of Deputies from 1989 until 1998. He was an Ambassador to Cuba from 2015 until his death. He was born in Asunción, Paraguay.

Cano Randil died on 12 September 2021 in Havana, Cuba from COVID-19, aged 65.

[[André Zacharow]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2021 deaths, Brazilian economists, Brazilian politicians, Brazilian lawyers, Academics

André Zacharow (7 July 1939 – 10 September 2021) was a Brazilian economist, lawyer, academic, and politician. He was a Federal Deputy from Paraná from 2003 until 2015. Zacharow was born in Jaguariaíva, Paraná. He was a member of the PDT and MDB.

Zacharow died on 10 September 2021 in Curitiba, Paraná at the age of 82.

[[Jaguariaíva]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraná State

Jaguariaíva is a city in the state of Paraná in Brazil.

[[Daniil Medvedev]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, Living people, Russian tennis players, Sportspeople from Moscow

Daniil Sergeyevich Medvedev (Дании́л Серге́евич Медве́дев; born 11 February 1996) is a Russian professional tennis player. He is currently ranked by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) as world No. 2. He has won thirteen ATP Tour singles titles, including the 2021 US Open. Medvedev was born in Moscow.

[[Phyllomedusa iheringii]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The southern walking leaf frog (Phyllomedusa iheringii) is a frog that lives in Brazil and Uruguay.

[[Alfhild (Alf and Alfhild)]]

CATEGORIES: Pirates, Norwegian people, Danish culture, Norwegian culture, Women

Alfhild was a daughter of the Geatish king Synardus that lived in modern Sweden. Historians do not know if she was a real person or a legend.  If she did live, it was probably between the 5th and 12th centuries. The earliest piece of writing that talks about her is the Gesta Danorum.

When Alfhild was a young princess, the room she slept in was guarded by a lizard and a snake. These reptiles scared away suitors who were not brave. A Danish prince named Alf, who was also Geatish, came to Geatland and fought the animal guards and won. But Alfhild's mother told her to run away from Alf dressed as a man.  She did, and she became a woman fighter called a shield maiden. 

She found a group of pirate ships that had lost their captain. She became the captain and made the other women part of the sailing crew. The crew doubled in number.

She was so good at piracy that she hurt a large part of the Danish and  Finnish shipping economy. She also sailed to Iceland once. Prince Alf then went to stop the fleet.  At that time, he did not know that Alfhild was pirate leader. He found them off the coast of Finland. 

In the original story, Alfhild killed Alf, the latter underestimating the fleet's power, and then put his head on a spear and continued pirating. People know this from Norse hearsay in dining halls. 

In Christian story, she knocked off his helmet. This made her recognize him, and she stopped pirating and married Alf. She then became queen of Denmark. This version is probably wrong: It agreed with the things Christianity and patriarchy saw as good.

[[Sengoku Basara 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, 2007 video games, Japan exclusive video games, PlayStation 2 games, Capcom games, Video game sequels, Video games developed in Japan, Wii games

Sengoku Basara 2 is a hack and slash video game developed and published by Capcom. It is sequel to the first Sengoku Basara games (Devil Kings outside Japan). Released for PlayStation 2 and Nintendo Wii. An upgraded versions called Sengoku Basara 2: Heroes was released on November 29, 2007.

The two main portagonist is Sanada Yukimura and Date Masamune.

[[Women's empowerment]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights

Women's Empowerment or Women Empowering is the process of giving women more power. It improves women's sense of self importance. It also improves the ability to decide about their lives themselves. This makes them to stand on their own feet. It also includes giving women legal rights to change their societies. Many developing and developed countries are talking about women's empowerment more. Empowering women economically make them to have their own jobs and incomes.  Then they can manage their own resources and wealth. This helps them plan for many risks in life. It also helps to improve their well-being socially, mentally, and physically. 

Gender equality and women empowerment are two things that always go together.

There are many ideas for women's empowerment. There are seven well known purposes of the process. These are:

Currently, people want to strengthen women empowerment. It is increasing day by day, across the globe. It is to remove the current situation on bad treatment of females and gender bias. According to a report from the United Nations (UN), around 750 million women and girls were married before being eighteen years old. And in another report, around 250 million women have undergone Female genital mutilation (FGM) across the world.

Women hold more than 30 percent of seats in national parliament in at least one chamberwhich country?]. It is one of the positive results of the dedicated efforts of women empowerment projects around the world.

[[Michel Maïque]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, French mayors, French rugby union players, Deaths from pancreatitis

Michel Maïque (13 July 1948 – 12 September 2021) was a French rugby league player and politician. He was a member of the Socialist Party. He was Mayor of Lézignan-Corbières from 2014 to 2020. From 1974 until 1979, he played for the national team. He was born in Aude, France.

Maïque died on 12 September 2021 in Lézignan-Corbières from pancreatitis at the age of 73.

[[Midlothian, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Midlothian is a city in northwest Ellis County, Texas, United States. The city is 25 southwest of Dallas.

[[Fabio Taborre]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, 2021 deaths, Italian cyclists

Fabio Taborre (5 June 1985 – 12 September 2021) was a professional Italian road cyclist. He was suspended from the sport after it was found out he was doping. He was born in Pescara, Italy. Taborre cycled with Androni Giocattoli–Sidermec, Vini Zabù–Brado–KTM and Acqua & Sapone.

Taborre died on 12 September 2021 from an illness, aged 36.

[[Larry Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American columnists, Podcasters, Comedians from New York City, Actors from New York City, Television personalities from New York City, Writers from New York City

Lawrence John Miller (born October 15, 1953) is an American comedian, actor, podcaster, and columnist. 

He played Lou Bonaparte in Mad About You (1993–1998), Pointy-Haired Boss in Dilbert (1999–2000), Edwin Poole in Boston Legal (2004–2008), Mr. Hollister in Pretty Woman (1990), Dean Richmond in The Nutty Professor (1996) and Nutty Professor II: The Klumps (2000), Walter Stratford in 10 Things I Hate About You (1999) and Paolo Puttanesca in The Princess Diaries (2001) and The Princess Diaries 2: Royal Engagement (2004).

[[The Nutty Professor (1963 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s science fiction movies, 1963 comedy movies, American science fiction movies, American comedy movies, Paramount Pictures movies, Movies directed by Jerry Lewis

The Nutty Professor is a 1963 American science fiction comedy movie directed, co-written and starring Jerry Lewis. The movie also co-stars Stella Stevens, Del Moore, Kathleen Freeman, Howard Morris, and Elvia Allman. It is a parody of Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 novella Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.

A remake was released in 1996. A sequel, Nutty Professor II: The Klumps, followed in 2000.

[[Kathleen Freeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2001 deaths, LGBT actors, Lesbians, LGBT people from Chicago, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Chicago, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in New York City, Comedians from Chicago, LGBT comedians

Kathleen Freeman (February 17, 1919spaced ndashAugust 23, 2001) was an American actress. She was known for playing the role of maids and secretaries in many comedies, especially directed by Jerry Lewis. She was in 11 comedies directed by Lewis in the 1950s and '60s. She also appeared in The Blues Brothers (1980) and Naked Gun 33⅓: The Final Insult (1994).

A lesbian, Freeman was in a partnership with Helen Ramsey until her death.

Freeman died on August 23, 2001 at a New York City hospital from lung cancer, aged 78.

[[Murder-suicide]]

CATEGORIES: Crime, Types of crime, Murders

A murder-suicide (or murder suicide) is a setting where a person first kills one or more people, and then commits suicide. This can happen in different ways: The person might do a suicide attack, where he or she kills himself or herself, and in the process kills other people as well. People might also kill themselves after killing other people, to escape state prosecution, or because they believe they are guilty, and deserve to die. 

Many school shootings are murder-suicides. Different religious groups have also decided to die together: The Order of the Solar Temple has become known for a few of these events, in 1994 and 1995. Heaven's Gate was an UFO religion, which committed suicide together in 1997. In the case of the  Movement for the Restoration of the Ten Commandments of God it isn't clear if their deaths in the 2000s were mass suicides, or a mass murder: Some of the victims had stab wounds, while others had been strangled. 

[[Omics]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics, Terminology, Medicine stubs

Omics is a  term used in modern genetics. It is used for terms which end in the suffix -omics, such as genomics.

The suffix -ome is used for the objects of study, such as the genome, proteome or metabolome. The -ome refers to a totality of some sort. 

Functional genomics aims at identifying the functions of as many genes as possible of a given organism.

Many "omes" beyond the original "genome" have  been adopted by research scientists. "Proteomics" has become well-established as a term for studying proteins at a large scale.

[[Dick Tracy vs. Cueball]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s mystery movies, American crime movies, American mystery movies, Movies directed by Gordon Douglas

Dick Tracy vs. Cueball is a 1946 American crime mystery movie directed by Gordon Douglas and is the second movie in the Dick Tracy series. It stars Morgan Conway, Dick Wessel, Anne Jeffreys, Rita Corday, Esther Howard, Ian Keith and was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[UFO religion]]

CATEGORIES: New religious movements

An UFO religion is a new religious movement, which also believes in extraterrestrials. They also believe that these extraterrestrials use unidentified flying objects, and they communicate with humans. In the view of the people of the UFO religion, human society and culture is either alrready part of the culture and osciety of the extraterrestrials, or it will become part of it soon. Two well-known groups that are UFO religioins are Raelism and Scientology.

[[Polygenic]]

CATEGORIES: Genetics

Polygenic is a common adjective in genetics. It means "many genes". It is used when a genetic character (phenotypic trait) depends on more than one gene. 

It is very common and normal for a person's weight, for example, to depend on many causes, both genetic (inherited) and non-genetic (e.g. way of life). Here the use of polygenic means that various genes influence the weight of a person, as well as the non-genetic factors (life-style). The branch of genetics which studies polygenes is called quantitative genetics.

[[Belgorod]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Russia

Belgorod (Белгород) is a city in Russia. It is the capital of Belgorod Oblast. As of 2012, the city has 369,815 people.

[[TwinBee Portable]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Compilation video games, Shooting video games, Japan exclusive video games, PlayStation Portable games, PlayStation Portable-only games, Konami games, Video games developed in Japan

[[Guan Daogao]]

CATEGORIES: 1319 deaths, 1262 births, Chinese poets, Chinese painters

Guan Daogao (born 1262 – 1319) was a Chinese Calligrapher, poet, and a painter who lived during the Yuan Dynasty.

[[Airavatesvara temple]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu temples, Temples in India, Thanjavur District, World Heritage Sites in India

Airavatesvara Temple is a Hindu temple of Dravidian architecture located in Kumbakonam, Thanjavur District in the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu.

[[Moji Solar-Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT people from Nigeria

Moji Solar-Wilson (born in 1968) from Ekiti State, is a Nigerian chief executive of a real estate company and a LGBTQ activist.

In 2017 she married Margaret Wilson, becoming the first known Nigerian woman in a same sex marriage.

[[Bisi Alimi Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT rights

The Bisi Alimi Foundation is a charity in the UK supporting and publishing research for social acceptance of LGBT people in Nigeria.

The Foundation was established by Bisi Alimi who claimed asylum in the UK after fleeing Nigeria due to attacks and threats after coming out as gay.

[[Movement for the Restoration of the Ten Commandments of God]]

CATEGORIES: Cults

The Movement for the Restoration of the Ten Commandments of God was a new religious movement in Uganda. It existed from the 1980s, to the early 2000s. Credonia Mwerinde and Joseph Kibweteere founded it. They said the virgin Mary had appeared to them. The group split from the Roman Catholic Church. The group wanted to restore the Ten Commandments. They said that only by strictly following the Ten Commandments would they be saved. 

In 1998, the group was first noticed, because they made children work in a school they operated. There was also a very bad hygiene at that school. 

There was the text A Timely Message from Heaven: The End of the Present Time, which they considered to be their gospel. Each group member was expected to have read it at least six times. The teachings of the group were that those worthy of salvation would be saved, but that all the others would be punished.  Credonia Mwerinde was seen as the incarnation of the Virgin Mary. 

According to the group, the world would end on  31st December 1999.  When the world did not end that day, people became suspicious. They wanted their posessions back, which they had transferred to the group beforehand. According to survivers, people who asked to get their possessions back would mysteriously disappear. The first 530 followers died at a religious service, in a church, on 17th March 2000. The leaders of the cult had the doors nailed shut. Then they poured petrol on the wooden church, and put in on fire. Today, it is certain that Joseph Kibweteere was not among the dead in the church. He was seen alive, the following day. During the following days, several bodies were discovered on the farms of the group. In total, over 1.000 people died.

Medical examinations later  determined that the majority of dead sect members had been poisoned. Early reports suggested that they had been strangled based on the presence of twisted banana fibers around their necks. After searching all sites, the police concluded that earlier estimates of nearly a thousand dead had been exaggerated, even though the final death toll was 924.

After interviews and an investigation, the police ruled out a cult suicide, and instead consider it to be a mass murder by the Movement leadership. They believe that the failure of the doomsday prophecy led to a revolt in the ranks of the sect, and the leaders set a new date with a plan to kill their followers. The discovery of bodies at other sites, the fact the church had been boarded up, the presence of incendiaries, and the possible disappearance of sect leaders all point to this theory. Additionally, witnesses said the Movement leadership had never spoken of mass suicide when preparing members for the end of the world. A survivor recalled meeting a devout member of the cult with nails and a hammer on his way after he had left the cult. It is believed he is the one who shut the windows with nails to prevent any one from escaping.

The Ugandan government condemned the killings. President Yoweri Museveni called the event a "mass murder by these priests for monetary gain". Vice president Dr. Speciosa Wandira Kazibwe said, "These were ... well-orchestrated mass murders out by a network of diabolic, malevolent criminals masquerading as religious people."

At the start, the five leaders were believed to have died in the fire.  Police now believe that Joseph Kibweteere and Credonia Mwerinde may still be alive, and have issued an international warrant for their arrest. In 2014, the Uganda National Police announced that there were reports that Kibweteere was hiding in Malawi.

[[Cluny Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Ernst Lubitsch

Cluny Brown is a 1946 American romantic comedy movie directed by Ernst Lubitsch and was based on the 1944 novel by Margery Sharp. It stars Charles Boyer, Jennifer Jones, Helen Walker, Reginald Owen, Reginald Gardiner, C. Aubrey Smith, Peter Walker, Una O'Connor. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[2009 Norwich North by-election]]

CATEGORIES: Elections in the United Kingdom, 2009 in the United Kingdom, Norwich

The 2009 Norwich North by-election was a by-election for the UK Parliament constituency of Norwich North. It happened because the current MP Ian Gibson decided he didn't want to be MP anymore. The by-election took place on 23 July 1009.

The winner of the by-election was Chloe Smith of the Conservative Party. Smith was aged 27 when elected, This meant she was the new Baby of the House.

[[Phyllomedusa bicolor]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The blue and yellow frog, waxy monkey Treefrog, bicolored frog or giant monkey frog (Phyllomedusa bicolor) is a frog that lives in Bolivia, Peru, Colombia, Brazil, and the Guianas.  Scientists think it might also live in Ecuador.

The adult male frog is 9.1 to 10.3 long from nose to rear end and the adult female frog is 11.1 to 11.9long.  The skin on its back is dark green and the belly can be white or yellow.  It has white spots with dark outlines on its front.  There are even more spots on its sides.  It has brown disks on its toes for climbing.  The iris of its eye is gray in color.

This frog hides during the day and looks for food at night.  When it is time to lay eggs, the female finds a leaf on a branch hanging over a pond.  She folds the leaf to make a nest.  She puts 600 eggs at a time in the nest and covers them in jelly.  The eggs take 8-10 days to hatch.  The tadpoles fall out of the nest into the pond.

[[Marta Martin Carrera-Ruiz]]

CATEGORIES: Television personalities, American television personalities, 1941 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic

Marta Martin Carrera-Ruiz (c. 1941 – 27 February 2021) was a Cuban-American television personality. She was known for among others, El Gordo y la Flaca.

[[Severe thunderstorm warning]]

A Severe Thunderstorm Warning is a weather warning issued by local weather offices the globe. 

[[International Center for Advocacy on Right to Health]]

CATEGORIES: HIV/AIDS, LGBT rights

International Center for Advocacy on Right to Health (ICARH) is an organization registered in Nigeria supporting the rights of sexual minorities and people living with HIV in Nigeria.

The ICARH support research in to health and behaviours of men who have sex with men (MSM). Due to the risk of being attacked or arrested for being thought of as homosexual in Nigeria a significant proportion of men with HIV, or at risk of becoming HIV+, are afraid to seek healthcare or treatment.

[[Women's Social and Political Union]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1917 disestablishments, 1910s establishments in the United Kingdom, First-wave feminism

The Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU) was a political movement for women. They campaigned for women's suffrage in the United Kingdom (allowing women to vote) from 1903 to 1918. They are sometimes called suffragettes.

The Women's Social and Political Union were known for civil disobedience. They held marches, set fire to post boxes, smashed windows and broke the law to get into prison. When they were in prison, they would go on hunger strikes, meaning they would refuse to eat. The government would force-feed prisoners who went on hunger strikes. The government created the Prisoners (Temporary Discharge for Ill Health) Act 1913, or the Cat and Mouse Act, so suffragettes who were close to starving to death could be released. 

[[Fraysexuality]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

Fraysexuality or ignotasexuality is a sexual orientation within the asexual spectrum in which a person feels sexual attraction to someone upon first meeting them but that sexual attraction fades over time, particularly as an emotional connection is formed, the attraction usually fades as the affectional bond strengthens. It is considered the opposite of demisexuality.

The romantic counterpart of fraysexual is frayromantic, which is when a person only experiences romantic attraction towards people they don’t know or don’t know very well. It is considered as the opposite of demiromantic.

[[Bonanza]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s television series, Television series about families, NBC network shows, 1959 television series debuts, 1973 television series endings

Bonanza was an American Western television series that ran on NBC from September 12, 1959, to January 16, 1973. It ran for 14 seasons and 431 episodes. Bonanza is NBC's longest-running western, and ranks overall as the second-longest-running western series on U.S. network television (behind CBS's Gunsmoke). It starred Lorne Greene, Pernell Roberts, Dan Blocker and Michael Landon.

[[Ruben Reyes]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Filipino lawyers, Filipino politicians, Filipino judges

Ruben T. Reyes (3 January 1939 – 13 September 2021) was a Filipino politician and lawyer. He was an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines from 2007 to 2009. He was nominated to the court by President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo.

Reyes died on 13 September 2021, aged 82.

[[Oscar Fernandes]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Deaths from blood clot, Indian politicians

Oscar Fernandes (27 March 1941 – 13 September 2021) was an Indian politician. He was born in present-day Karnataka, India. He was a member of the Indian National Congress. Fernandes was a member of the Parliament of India between 1980 until 1996 and again from 1998 until his death. He was the Minister of Road Transport and Highways between 2013 and 2014.

Fernandes died at a hospital in Mangalore, India from thrombus caused by a fall on 13 September 2021, aged 80.

[[Century common year]]

CATEGORIES: Years, Calendars

In the Gregorian calendar, a century common year is a year that is divisible by 100 but not 400. Therefore, like all other common years, these years do not have a February 29. This is the only case where a year can be divisible by 4 and be a common year. 

In the obsolete Julian Calendar, all years divisible by 4, including century years, were leap years. This rule resulted in too many leap years, so the Gregorian Calendar added a new rule that a century leap year must be divisible by 400 to be a leap year. This is why the years 1600, 2000, and 2400 are leap years, while 1700, 1800, 1900, 2100, 2200, and 2300 are common years even though they are all divisible by 4. The Gregorian Calendar was introduced in 1582, so the first century common year was 1700. 

The start days of century common years varies. The century year begins on Friday if the remainder obtained by dividing it by 400 is 100, Wednesday if the remainder is 200, and Monday if the remainder is 300.

==References== 

[[Christabel Pankhurst]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1958 deaths

Dame Christabel Harriette Pankhurst, GBR (ˈ; 22 September 1880 – 13 February 1958) was a British woman. She was born in Manchester, England. She was a suffragette, which means she wanted England to give women the right to vote.  She was one of the founders of the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU). In 1914, she supported Britain going to war against Germany in World War I.

[[Luník IX]]

CATEGORIES: Webarchive template wayback links, Coordinates on Wikidata, Slovakia

Luník IX is a borough (city ward) in the city of Košice, Slovakia, in the Košice II district. It is located in the western-central part of the city, surrounded by the boroughs of Pereš, Myslava, Barca, Juh and Západ.

Luník IX houses the largest community of Romani people in Slovakia. It was originally built for 2,500 people. Estimates are that its population in 2021  is three times larger. Living standards are low. Services such as gas, water, and electricity are usually  cut off, because the majority of inhabitants are not paying rent or utilities fees.

Health standards are low:  diseases such as hepatitis, head lice, diarrhoea, scabies, and meningitis are common. Almost all people in the borough do not have a job. The borough has one elementary school and a kindergarten.

Luník IX is serviced by a bus line, which stops only on selected bus stops. Boarding the bus is only allowed through the front door. Due to frequent attacks of aggressive residents, bus drivers deployed on the line receive a hazard pay.

[[Antisymmetric matrix]]

CATEGORIES: Linear algebra

For the electromagnetic field, the curvature form is an antisymmetric matrix whose elements are the electric field and magnetic field: the electromagnetic tensor.

[[Deja Vu (Olivia Rodrigo song)]]

Déjà Vu was released on April 1, 2021 on Geffen and Interscope records by singer-songwriter Olivia Rodrigo, the title of his own Deja Vu comment written and recorded in 2020 for releasing Deja Vu on April 1.

[[Khawlah bint Hakim]]

CATEGORIES: Female Sahabah

Khawlah bint Hakim (Arabic: خولة بنت حكيم) was one of Muhammad's female companions, who was the wife of 'Uthman ibn Majoon. And was about Muhammad's aunt.

[[Don Collier]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Deaths from lung cancer, Actors from Santa Monica, California

Don Collier (October 17, 1928 – September 13, 2021) was an American actor. He was best known for his roles in The High Chaparral, Bonanza, Gunsmoke and Outlaws as Marshal Will Foreman.

Collier died at age 92 in Harrodsburg, Kentucky, from lung cancer on September 13, 2021.

[[Mike Boyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from lung cancer, American mayors, American lawyers, Politicians from Los Angeles, California, Businesspeople from Los Angeles, California, Politicians from Omaha, Nebraska, Businesspeople from Omaha, Nebraska, US Democratic Party politicians

Michael David Boyle (January 19, 1944 – September 13, 2021) was an American politician and lawyer. He was a member of the Democratic Party. Boyle was born in Los Angeles, California. He was the Mayor of Omaha, Nebraska between 1981 until 1987.

Boyle died on September 13, 2021 in Omaha from pneumonia caused by lung cancer at the age of 77.

[[Khawlah bint al-Azwar]]

CATEGORIES: Female Sahabah

Khawlah bint al-Azwar (Arabic: خولة بنت الأزور) was a famous woman of Muhammad's time and later a military leader. She is described as one of the best fighters in history. On the battlefield, the opposition compared him to Khalid bin Walid . She was the sister of Dhihar bin Al-Azwar who was a soldier and commander of Rashidun army. Khawlah was born in the seventh century. Her father was the leader of the Banu Asad tribe. Khawlah has fought alongside his brother in many battles. These include the Battle of Yarmouk against the Byzantine Emperor in 638 AD. On the fourth day of the battle, Khawlah fought against the Byzantine army with a group of women and defeated the commander-in-chief. She was wounded while fighting against a Greek soldier.

[[Antonio Verini]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Italian politicians

Antonio Verini (30 June 1936 – 12 September 2021) was an Italian politician. He was a member of the Chamber of Deputies in 2006. He was a member of the Regional Council of Abruzzo from 2005 until 2008. He was a member of the Liberal Democrats. Verini was born in Campotosto, Italy.

Verini died on 12 September 2021 at the age of 85.

[[Campotosto]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Abruzzo

Campotosto (Sabino: Camputotsu)  is a comune and town in the province of L'Aquila. It is in the Abruzzo region of central Italy.

[[Giannis Theonas]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, Greek politicians

Giannis Theonas (29 October 1940 – 12 September 2021) was a Greek politician. He was a Member of the European Parliament from 1994 until 2001. He was a member of the Communist Party. From 2015 until his death, he was a member of the Hellenic Parliament. He was born in Naxos, Greece.

Theonas died on 12 September 2021 in Athens at the age of 80.

[[Fakhitah bint Abi Talib]]

CATEGORIES: Female Sahabah

Fakhitah bint Abi Talib, also known as Umm Hani bint Abi Talib (Arabic فاختة بنت أبي طالب), was Muhammad's cousin. Umm Hani was the daughter of Abu Talib. He was a hadith narrator.

[[Sonja Sohn]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), Actors from Virginia, American activists, African-American movie actors, African American movie directors, African American movie producers, African-American screenwriters, African-American television actors, People from Newport News, Virginia

Sonja Denise Plack (nee Williams; born May 9, 1964), better known as Sonja Sohn, is an American actress. She is known for playing Baltimore detective Kima Greggs in the HBO series The Wire (2002–2008). She is also an activist and filmmaker. She co-wrote and starred in the movie Slam (1998). She also directed the HBO documentary Baltimore Rising (2017), about the 2015 Baltimore protests.

Sohn's other TV roles include Samantha Baker in Body of Proof, Laverne Johnson in The Chi and Gabrielle Burnham in Star Trek: Discovery.

Sohn was born at Fort Benning, Georgia. Her mother was Korean and her father was an African American. Her parents met when her father was stationed in South Korea after the Korean War. She grew up in Newport News, Virginia. Sohn has two daughters, born in 1986 and 1990. She was married to Australian-born musician Adam Plack from 2003 to 2011.

[[Conservative Party (Norway)]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century establishments in Norway, 1884 establishments in Europe, Political parties in Norway

The Conservative Party is a liberal-conservative political party in Norway. It is the major party of the Norwegian centre-right. 

The current party leader is the Prime Minister Erna Solberg. The party is a member of the International Democrat Union and part of the European People's Party.

[[Zaynab bint Ali]]

CATEGORIES: Female Sahabah

Zaynab bint Ali (زَيْنَب بِنْت عَلِيّ, ar; 3 August 626Spaced en dash682), was the daughter of the fourth Rashidun Caliph and the first Shia Imam Ali bin Abi Talib. She is the third child of Ali ibn Abi Talib and his wife Fatima.

[[Messenger Kids]]

CATEGORIES: Messaging

Messenger Kids is a messaging app and platform released by Facebook in December 2017. The platform is designed for a young audience as a safer alternative to the Facebook Messenger platform. Users can register with their first and last names instead of phone numbers. It was initially launched for iPad tablets with the iOS operating system in the United States only, though later support for iPhone and Android devices was added and it was rolled out in Canada, Peru, and Mexico.

Parents have oversight and control, with requirements about identity verification and approval of contacts. There are no in-app purchases nor advertisements, and thus also no data collection for advertising purposes, children's accounts are not visible in search on Facebook, and the child's account does not automatically migrate to a full Facebook account once the child turns 13 years old (the minimum age for Facebook registration). It features augmented reality filters and lenses, along with games and educational content.

[[Trygve Slagsvold Vedum]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Norwegian politicians

Trygve Magnus Slagsvold Vedum (born 1 December 1978) is a Norwegian politician. He is a member of the Centre Party. He is an MP for Hedmark since 2005. He was leader of the Centre Party since 2014.

[[Centre Party (Norway)]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Norway, 1920 establishments in Europe, Political parties in Norway

The Centre Party (Senterpartiet, Sp) is a political party in Norway. It is a centrist party.

[[Sylvi Listhaug]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Norwegian politicians

Sylvi Listhaug (born 25 December 1977) is a Norwegian politician. She has been the leader of the Progress Party since 2021. She was Minister for the Elderly and Public Health of Norway under Prime Minister Erna Solberg from May to December 2019. She was the Minister of Petroleum and Energy of Norway from December 2019 to January 2020.

[[List of Sahabah]]

CATEGORIES: Sahaba, People from Mecca, People from Medina

Aṣ-ṣaḥābah (الصحابة), were individuals who have met and met the Prophet Muhammad of Islam while he was alive; Accepted Islam at their hands and gained their companionship; But Islamic faith have died while in terms of the Prophet of Islam, the Companions is called.

[[Progress Party (Norway)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Norway

The Progress Party, commonly shortened as FrP, is a right-wing political party in Norway. The party is classical-liberal or libertarian.

[[Audun Lysbakken]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Norwegian politicians

Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken (born 30 September 1977) is a Norwegian politician. He is the leader of the Norwegian Socialist Left Party. His career in national politics began when he was elected to the Norwegian parliament in 2001. In 2006, he became deputy leader of the Socialist Left Party. He was the Minister of Children and Equality from October 2009 to March 2012. 

[[Bjørnar Moxnes]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Politicians from Oslo

Bjørnar Moxnes (born 19 December 1981) is a Norwegian politician and activist. He is a critic of the European Union. In 2012, he became Leader of the Red Party. In 2017, he was elected to the Storting.

[[Guri Melby]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Politicians from Oslo

Guri Melby (born 3 February 1981) is a Norwegian politician. She was a member of the Liberal Party. She became party leader and Minister of Education in 2020.

[[Liberal Party (Norway)]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century establishments in Norway, 1884 establishments in Europe, Political parties in Norway, Liberal parties

The Liberal Party (Left, V) is a centrist political party in Norway. It was founded in 1884 and it is the oldest political party in Norway. It is a liberal party.

[[Une Aina Bastholm]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Politicians from Oslo

Une Aina Bastholm (born 14 January 1986) is a Norwegian politician. In 2020, she became leader of Miljøpartiet De Grønne (Norway's Green party). She has represented Oslo in Stortinget (the Norwegian legislature) since 2017.

[[Christian Democratic Party (Norway)]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Norway, 1930s establishments in Europe, 1933 establishments, Christian democratic parties, Political parties in Norway

The Christian Democratic Party is a Christian-democratic political party in Norway. It was founded in 1933. The party is an observer member of the European People's Party (EPP). 

[[Kjell Ingolf Ropstad]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Norwegian politicians

Kjell Ingolf Ropstad (born 1 June 1985) is a Norwegian politician. He is a member of the Christian Democratic Party. In 2019, he became the Minister of Children, Family and Church Affairs. The same year, he became leader of the Christian Democratic Party. He has been a member of the Norwegian Parliament Stortinget since 2009.

[[Vestland]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century establishments in Norway, 2020 establishments in Europe, Counties of Norway

Vestland is a county in Norway that was created on 1 January 2020. The county is located in Western Norway and it is centred around the city of Bergen.

[[Hedmark]]

CATEGORIES: Former counties of Norway

Hedmark (ˈhêːdmɑrk) was a county in Norway before 1 January 2020. It bordered Trøndelag to the north, Oppland to the west, Akershus to the south, and Sweden to the east. 

[[Aust-Agder]]

CATEGORIES: Former counties of Norway

Aust-Agder (ˈæ̂ʉstˌɑɡdər, "East Agder") was a county (fylke) in Norway until 1 January 2020. It was merged with Vest-Agder to form Agder county. In 2002, there were 102,945 people living here.

[[John List]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2008 deaths, American murderers, American people convicted of murder, Criminals from Michigan, Deaths from pneumonia, People from Trenton, New Jersey, Accountants, People who died in prison custody in the United States

John Emil List (September 17, 1925 – March 21, 2008) was an American murderer.

[[Ichirō Ozawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Politicians from Tokyo

Ichirō Ozawa is a Japanese politician. He is a member of the House of Representatives since 1969. He was the Leader of the Opposition from 1995 until 1997 and again from 2006 until 2009.

[[Gurbanmuhammet Kasymow]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2021 deaths, Turkmenistan politicians, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic, Lawyers, Ambassadors, People from Ashgabat

Gurbanmuhammet Kasymow, also spelled Kurbanmuhammed Kasymov or Gurbanmukhammet Kasimov, (July 30, 1954 – September 2, 2021) was a Turkmen politician and lawyer. He worked in the cabinet of President of Turkmenistan Saparmurat Niyazov. He was Minister of Internal Affairs from 1993 to 1998, Minister of Defense from 1998 to 1999, and Minister of Justice from 1999 until 2001. 

He was an Ambassador to China from 2001 to 2008 and Ambassador to Kazakhstan from 2008 until 2009.

Kasymow died from problems caused by COVID-19 in Gokje, Turkmenistan on September 2, 2021, at the age of 68.

[[Kurban Berdyev]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Russian football managers, Russian footballers, People from Ashgabat

Kurban Bekiyevich Berdyev (Gurban Bekiýewiç Berdiýew, Курбан Бекиевич Бердыев; born 25 August 1952) is a Turkmen football manager. He is the manager of Kazakhstani club FC Kairat. He holds Russian citizenship. Berdyev is thought to be one of the best football manager's in the world.

[[Djohari Kahar]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Indonesian politicians

Djohari Kahar (11 November 1931 – 12 September 2021) was an Indonesian politician. He was a member of Golkar. He was a member of the People's Representative Council and the People's Consultative Assembly from 1982 until 1992. Kahar was born in Solok, Indonesia.

Kahar died on 12 September 2021 in Padang, Indonesia at the age of 89.

[[Parys Haralson]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2021 deaths, American football linebackers, San Francisco 49ers players, New Orleans Saints players, Sportspeople from Mississippi

Parys Sharron Haralson (January 24, 1984 – September 13, 2021) was an American football linebacker. He played for the San Francisco 49ers between 2006 until 2012 and for the New Orleans Saints from 2013 until 2014. Haralson was born in Flora, Mississippi.

Haralson died on September 13, 2021 at the age of 37.

[[Flora, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Mississippi

Flora is a town in Madison County, Mississippi, United States. The population was 1,886 at the 2010 census.

[[Ed Badger]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Chicago Bulls head coaches, Sportspeople from New Jersey

Ed Badger (born November 5, 1932) is a former American college and professional basketball coach. He was born in West New York, New Jersey and was raised in Chicago. He coached the Chicago Bulls between 1976 until 1978. He also coached the Cincinnati Bearcats between 1978 until 1983.

[[Herbert C. Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 2004 deaths, American chemists, Scientists from London, Scientists from Chicago, Naturalized citizens of the United States

ChemistryHerbert Charles Brown (May 22, 1912 – December 19, 2004) was an American chemist. He won the 1979 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work with organoboranes.

[[Georg Wittig]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1987 deaths, German chemists, Scientists from Berlin

ChemistryGeorg Wittig (ˈɡeː.ɔʁk ˈvɪ.tɪç; 16 June 1897 – 26 August 1987) was a German chemist. He was known for his work the synthesis of alkenes from aldehydes and ketones. It became known as the Wittig reaction. He shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Herbert C. Brown in 1979.

[[Don Bacon]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, United States representatives from Nebraska, Politicians from Omaha, Nebraska, Politicians from Illinois, Military people from Illinois, American generals, US Republican Party politicians

Donald John Bacon (born August 16, 1963) is an American politician and former military officer. He is the U.S. Representative for Nebraska's 2nd congressional district since 2017. He was a United States Air Force officer, before his retirement in 2014. Bacon is a member of the Republican Party.

In a December 2020 Washington Post found that Bacon was one of 37 who said Joe Biden won the 2020 election and did not support President Donald Trump's voter fraud claims.

In May 2021, Bacon was one of 35 Republicans who joined all Democrats in voting to approve legislation to create the January 6 commission meant to investigate the storming of the U.S. Capitol. He was one of only a few Republican lawmakers who openly supported the commission.

[[January 6 commission]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 United States Capitol attack

The National Commission to Investigate the January 6 Attack on the United States Capitol Complex, known as the January 6 commission, was a proposed commission that would have investigated the 2021 United States Capitol attack. It was proposed on February 15 by Speaker of the United States House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi, who announced that she planned to create a "9/11-type commission".

It would have had an equal number of Democrats and Republicans. A bill forming the commission passed the House of Representatives on May 19, with all Democrats and 35 Republicans voting in support of it. However, it was blocked by Senate Republicans on May 28, with 54 Senators voting in favor and 35 voting against.

[[Jake Angeli]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, 2021 United States Capitol attack, People from Glendale, Arizona, American conservatives

Jake Angeli (born Jacob Anthony Angeli Chansley; 1987), also known as the "QAnon Shaman", "Q Shaman", and "Yellowstone Wolf", is an American activist and conspiracy theorist. He took part in the 2021 United States Capitol attack. He is a former supporter of ex-president Donald Trump. He has supported the QAnon conspiracy theory.

After being photographed taking part in the storming of the Capitol, Angeli was arrested on January 9, 2021. He pleaded guilty to a single charge on September 3, 2021.

[[Klete Keller]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American swimmers, American Olympic gold medalists, American Olympic bronze medalists, American Olympic silver medalists, 2021 United States Capitol attack, Sportspeople from Las Vegas, Nevada

Klete Derik Keller (born March 21, 1982) is an American former competition swimmer. He won medals at the 2000, 2004, and 2008 Summer Olympics. He was born in Las Vegas, Nevada.

In January 2021, Keller was arrested and charged with three offenses after being part of the 2021 storming of the United States Capitol. He was indicted on seven charges and has pleaded "not guilty".

[[Lua Blanco]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Brazilian actors, Brazilian singers

Lua Maria Blanco (born March 5, 1987) is a Brazilian actress and singer. She began her career in 2008 in a participation in the telenovela Três Irmãs, in 2009 she acted in Young Hearts, she gained fame in 2011 by playing one of the six protagonists of the telenovela Rebelde Brasil. Lua dated Arthur Aguiar. 

Blanco was born in São Paulo. 

[[True Crime (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Video game series

True Crime is a action-adventure video game series, developed by Luxorflux and published by Activision.

[[Because of Him]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by Richard Wallace

Because of Him is a 1946 American romantic comedy movie directed by Richard Wallace and starring Deanna Durbin, Charles Laughton, Franchot Tone, Helen Broderick, Stanley Ridges, Donald Meek, Charles Halton. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Mozambique (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 drama movies, British drama movies, South African movies, Portuguese movies

Mozambique is a 1965 British South African Portuguese drama movie directed by Robert Lynn and starring Steve Cochran, Hildegard Knef, Gert Van den Bergh, Paul Hubschmid, Vivi Bach.

[[Dongergaon]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in India, Settlements in Chhattisgarh

Dongargaon is a small village in Rajnandgaon, Chhattisgarh, India with a population of 14,693.

[[Rajnandgaon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Settlements in Chhattisgarh

Rajnandgaon is a city in Chhattisgarh, India with the population of 163,122.

[[Diyu]]

CATEGORIES: Afterlife, Buddhism

Diyu (traditional Chinese: 地獄; "earth prison")   is hell in Chinese mythology. It is based on Naraka concept about the afterlife. 

Diyu looks like a underground maze with many chambers. Souls are taken here to atone their sins during their life. 

[[Exploitation of natural resources]]

CATEGORIES: Natural resources

The exploitation of natural resources is the use of natural resources for economic growth, sometimes with a negative result in regards with the environment. It started to come out on an industrial scale in the 19th century as the extraction and processing of raw materials (such as in mining, steam power, and machinery) developed much further than it had in preindustrial areas. During the 20th century, energy use quickly increased. Today, about 80% of the world's energy use is sustained by the extraction of fossil fuels, which consists of oil, coal and natural gas.

[[Zayd ibn Harithah]]

CATEGORIES: 629 deaths, Family of Muhammad, 581 births

Zayd ibn Harithah (زَيْد ٱبْن حَارِثَة, ar) (c. 581–629 CE), was a Companion of the Prophet of Islam and his adopted son. He is the only Companion whose name appears in the Qur'an.

[[Qasim ibn Muhammad]]

CATEGORIES: Children of Muhammad, 598 births, 601 deaths, People from Mecca

Qasim ibn Muhammad (قاسم بن محمد), was the son of Muhammad and Khadija bint Khuwaylid. He died in 601 CE (before the start of his father's prophethood in 609), after his third birthday and is buried in Jannat al-Mu'alla cemetery, Mecca, Saudi Arabia. He was Muhammad's first child. That is why Prophet Muhammad's nickname or Kunia was A'bul Qasim. Qasim was born before the Prophethood and died in Makkah as a child.

[[History of the Catholic Church]]

CATEGORIES: Catholicism

The history of the Catholic Church is the formation, events, and change of the Catholic Church through time.

The Catholic Church began with Jesus Christ and his teachings. It is a continuation of the early Christian community established by the Disciples of Jesus. The Church believes its bishops to be the successors to Jesus's apostles and the Church's leader, the Bishop of Rome (also known as the Pope), to be the only successor to Saint Peter who ministered in Rome in the first century AD after his appointment by Jesus as head of the Church.

Christianity spread throughout the early Roman Empire, with all persecutions due to conflicts with the pagan state religion. In 313, the persecutions were lessened by the Edict of Milan with the legalization of Christianity by the Emperor Constantine I. In 380, under Emperor Theodosius, Christianity became the state religion of the Roman Empire by the Edict of Thessalonica.

The battles of Toulouse preserved the Christian west against the Umayyad Muslim army, even though Rome itself was destroyed in 850, and Constantinople attacked. In the 11th century, already difficult relations between the mostly Greek church in the East, and the Latin church in the West, developed into the East-West Schism, partially due to conflicts over the Pope's authority. Before and during the 16th century, the Church started a process of reform and renewal. Reform during the 16th century is known as the Counter-Reformation. In later centuries, Catholicism spread widely across the world even though it experienced a reduction of European believers due to the growth of Protestantism and also because of religious doubt and distrust during and after the Enlightenment. The Second Vatican Council in the 1960s introduced the most big changes to Catholic practices since the Council of Trent four centuries before.

[[Zainab bint Muhammad]]

CATEGORIES: 599 births, 629 deaths, Female Sahabah, Children of Muhammad

Zainab bint Muhammad (زَيْنَب بِنْت مُحَمَّد) (598/599—629 CE), was the eldest daughter of Muhammad and Khadija bint Khuwaili. Zainab was born in 600 AD, in the 5th year of Khadija's marriage, and died in 8 AH, 629 AD, at the age of 30.

[[Glass ceiling]]

CATEGORIES: Feminism

A glass ceiling is a metaphor used to show something stopping people, usually women, from having high ranks in companies, schools, etc.

The metaphor was first made by feminists Ito show something stopping the careers of high-achieving women. In the US, the concept is sometimes used to refer to minorities based not on gender.Women of color in countries whose population is mostly white people often find the most difficulty in "breaking the glass ceiling" because they are both women and people of color, two types of people who were not liked in the past. East Asian and East Asian American news outlets have made a used a metaphor taken from the original, the term "bamboo ceiling". It tries to show white people not liking East Asians, as bamboo is from Asia.

Within the same ideas of the other terms surrounding the workplace, there are similar terms about extra rules about women and their roles within organisations and how they manage their jobs as mothers. These "Invisible Barriers" work as metaphors to describe the many extra things stopping women, usually when trying to become better in their career and usually while also trying to make their other parts of life better.

"A glass ceiling" represents something stopping women from getting high ranks in a company where people have different amounts of power, usually shown on a pyramid diagram. Those women are not allowed to get promotion, especially to the very high rankings, inside their jobs. Since 2001, the women working who do not work in the health and educational sector have not been seen in the high ranks a lot.

[[Pukhraj Bafna]]

CATEGORIES: People from Rajnandgaon

Pukhraj Bafna is an Indian pediatrician and adolescent health consultant, known for his contributions towards tribal child and adolescent health. The Government of India honored Bafna in 2011, with the fourth highest civilian award of Padma Shri.

[[Madan Tiwary]]

CATEGORIES: People from Rajnandgaon

Madan Tiwary (1923-2011) was an Indian politician. He was elected to the Lok Sabha, the lower house of the Parliament of India from Rajnandgaon, Madhya Pradesh as a member of the Janata Party.

[[Belle (2013 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 drama movies, 2010s biographical movies, British biographical movies, British drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Amma Asante

Belle is a 2013 British biographical drama movie directed by Amma Asante and starring Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Tom Wilkinson, Miranda Richardson, Emily Watson, Alex Jennings, Penelope Wilton, Matthew Goode, James Norton. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Idris (prophet)]]

CATEGORIES: Quran

Idrīs (إدريس), is known to Muslims as Hazrat Idris, is the third prophet sent to mankind according to Islamic history. According to Muslim belief, he received prophethood from the Creator after Adam, the first prophet of Islam. There is disagreement about his birthplace. According to some, he was born in Babylon, Iraq. According to some, he was born in Egypt. He is thought to be the Enoch mentioned in the Bible.

[[David Yonggi Cho]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Christian ministers, South Korean criminals, Deaths from stroke

David Yonggi Cho (14 February 1936 – 14 September 2021) was a South Korean Christian minister. He was a co-founder of the Yoido Full Gospel Church (Assemblies of God). It was the world's largest congregation with 830,000 members in 2007. He was born in Ulju County, South Korea. In 2014, Cho was convicted of embezzling $12 million USD in church funds.

Cho died on 14 September 2021 at the age of 85 from problems caused by a stroke.

[[Viktor Kazantsev]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Russian generals, Russian politicians, Soviet generals, Soviet politicians

Viktor Germanovich Kazantsev (ˈvʲiktər ˈɡʲɛrmənəvʲɪtɕ kɐˈzantsɨf; 26 February 1946 – 14 September 2021) was a Russian general and politician. He was an envoy of the Russian president to the Southern Federal District from 2000 to 2004. He was in charge of negotiations between the Russian government and the Chechen opposition. He was a general of the Russian Ground Forces. His military career began with the Soviet Army in 1963. He retired in 2000. He was born in Vitebsk Region, Soviet Union.

Kazantsev died on 14 September 2021 in Krasnodar, Russia at the age of 75.

[[Ali Ahmed Mullah]]

CATEGORIES: Mu'azzins, 1945 births, Living people

Sheikh Ali Abdul Rahman Ahmed Mulla (على أحمد ملا), is the veteran muazzin (caller for prayer) at the Masjid al-Haram in Mecca, Saudi Arabia.

[[Ladislav Lubina]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2021 deaths, Czech ice hockey players, Deaths from brain cancer, Olympic bronze medalists

Ladislav Lubina (11 February 1967 – 14 September 2021) was a Czech ice hockey player and ice hockey coach. He was drafted by the Minnesota North Stars in 1985. He never played in the NHL. Lubina won a bronze medal at the 1992 Winter Olympics, playing for the national team. Lubina was born in Dvůr Králové nad Labem, Czechoslovakia.

Lubina died on 14 September 2021 of brain cancer in Prague, Czech Republic at the age of 54.

[[Sergio Fajardo]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Colombian politicians, Mayors, Mathematicians

Sergio Fajardo Valderrama (ˈseɾxjo faˈxaɾðo βaldeˈrama; born 19 June 1956) is a Colombian politician and mathematician. Fajardo was the Governor of Antioquia from 2012 to 2016. He was Mayor of Medellin from 2004 until 2008. He is a member of the Compromiso Ciudadano Party.

Fajardo ran for President of Colombia in the 2018, coming in third place. He is running again for president in the 2022 election.

[[The Green Dome]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Medina, Mosques, Medina

The Green Dome (al-Qubbah al-Khaḍrā’), is a green dome built over the tombs of Prophet Muhammad ﷺ, Caliph Abu Bakr and Umar. The dome is located in the south-east corner of the Nawabi Mosque in Medina.

[[Fred Stanfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Canadian ice hockey centres, Chicago Blackhawks players, Boston Bruins players, Minnesota North Stars players, Buffalo Sabres players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Sportspeople from Toronto, Stanley Cup champions

Frederic William Stanfield (May 4, 1944 – September 13, 2021) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He played 14 seasons in the National Hockey League from 1964 until 1978. He won two Stanley Cups with the Boston Bruins, in 1970 and 1972. He was born in Toronto, Ontario. Stanfield played for the Chicago Black Hawks, Boston Bruins, Minnesota North Stars and the Buffalo Sabres.

Stanfield died on September 13, 2021 in Buffalo, New York at the age of 77.

[[Beverly Hills, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Michigan

Beverly Hills is a village in Oakland County of the U.S. state of Michigan. It is about 5 north of the city of Detroit. 10,267 people lived here in 2010.

[[Fran Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, American educators, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Arkansas, Actors from Los Angeles County, California

Fran Bennett (August 14, 1937 – September 12, 2021) was an American actress. She was born in Malvern, Arkansas. Her career began in 1961. She played Dr. Heffner in the 1994 horror movie Wes Craven's New Nightmare. She also appeared in the 1990s soap opera Sunset Beach and medical drama Nightingales. She also taught at the California Institute of the Arts.

Bennett died on September 12, 2021 in Santa Clarita, California at the age of 84.

[[California Institute of the Arts]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in California

The California Institute of the Arts (CalArts) is a private art university in Santa Clarita, California. It was created in 1961. They have Bachelor of Fine Arts, Master of Fine Arts, Master of Arts, and Doctor of Musical Arts programs. The school's area of education include Art, Critical Studies, Dance, Film/Video, Music, and Theater.

[[Do Not Disturb (1965 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 comedy movies, 1960s romantic comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies based on plays, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by George Marshall

Do Not Disturb is a 1965 American romantic comedy movie directed by Ralph Levy and George Marshall and was based on the play Some Other Love by William Fairchild. It stars Doris Day, Rod Taylor, Hermione Baddeley, Raquel Welch, Reginald Gardiner, Leon Askin, Britt Ekland, Dick Winslow and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Yuriy Sedykh]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2021 deaths, Soviet sportspeople, Soviet Olympic gold medalists, Soviet Olympic silver medalists

Yuriy Georgiyevich Sedykh (Юрій Георгійович Сєдих; Ю́рий Гео́ргиевич Седы́х) (11 June 1955 – 14 September 2021) was a Soviet track and field athlete, who took part of the hammer throw. He held the world record with a throw of 86.74 m. He won two Olympic gold medals at the 1976 Summer Olympics and 1980 Summer Olympics. He also won a silver medal at the 1988 Summer Olympics. Sedykh was born in Novocherkassk, Russia.

Sedykh died on 14 September 2021 in Paris, France at the age of 66.

[[Novocherkassk]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Russia

Novocherkassk (Новочерка́сск, lit. New Cherkassk) is a city in Rostov Oblast, Russia. 168,746 people lived here in 2010.

[[Rostov Oblast]]

CATEGORIES: Oblasts of Russia

Rostov Oblast (Rostovskaya oblast) is a federal subject of Russia (an oblast). The oblast has an area of 100800. 4,277,976 people lived here (2010 Census).

[[Dix Hills, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in New York, Census-designated places in New York (state)

Dix Hills is a hamlet and census-designated place (CDP) on Long Island in the town of Huntington in Suffolk County, New York, United States. The population was 26,892 at the 2010 census.

[[Pithecopus oreades]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

Pithecopus oreades is a frog that lives in Brazil.  It lives high in the hills.  Scientists have seen it more than 900 meters above sea level. Scientists have seen it up in the mountains, between 280 and 1000 meters above sea level.

[[Nikah mut'ah]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic law, Marriage

In certain forms of Islam, Nikah mut'ah is a form of marriage. It is also called Sigheh. Unlike Nikāḥ, which is the other form of marriage in Islamic law, a marriage according to Nikah mut'ah only has a limited duration. Nikah mutah is focused on (sexual) pleasure. The Twelver Shia Muslims say that Nikah mut'ah is legal, most other Muslims disagree. 

[[Dominic West]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, People from Sheffield

Dominic Gerard Francis Eagleton West (born 15 October 1969) is an English actor, director and musician. He played Baltimore detective Jimmy McNulty in the HBO series The Wire (2002–2008). His roles as Hector Madden in The Hour (2011–2012) and as Noah Solloway in The Affair (2014–2019) earnt him Golden Globe nominations.

West won the British Academy Television Award for Best Actor for playing serial killer Fred West in Appropriate Adult (2011).

West acted in Chicago (2002), 300 (2007), Punisher: War Zone (2008), Johnny English Reborn (2011), John Carter (2012), The Square (2017) and Colette (2018).

West was born in Sheffield. He has Irish ancestry. He is married to Catherine FitzGerald. He has five children.

[[João Martins (footballer, born 1927)]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1993 deaths, Portuguese footballers, Association football forwards

João Baptista Martins (3 September 1927 – 16 November 1993) was a Portuguese footballer.

[[Military career of Muhammad]]

CATEGORIES: Military careers by individual, Battles of Muhammad

Military career of Muhammad (c. 570 – 8 June 632), Islam lasted from 622 to 632, the last ten years of his life. He and his followers were expelled from the holy city of Mecca, controlled by the powerful Quraish tribe. He began to block the caravans of Mecca. After the first battle of Badr in 624, his power gradually increased and he began to influence other tribes through diplomacy or conquest.

[[Nouman Ali Khan]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American Muslims, 1978 births

Nouman Ali Khan is an American Muslim speaker of Pakistani descent. He is the founder and CEO of The Bayyinah Institute for Arabic and Quranic Studies and Chief Adviser. The fifth edition of The Five Hundred Most Influential Muslims, a biographical dictionary of Islamic personalities, lists Noman Ali Khan as one of the most influential Muslims in the world without any ranking.

[[Meromorphic function]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

A meromorphic function is a function that is holomorphic (defined on the complex numbers, and that can be differentiated everywhere where it is defined) on all of an open set except for a set of isolated points, which are poles of the function.

[[Blue Springs, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Blue Springs is a city in Jackson County, Missouri, United States.

[[Buckner, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Buckner is a city in Jackson County, Missouri, United States.

[[Grain Valley, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Grain Valley is a city in Jackson County, Missouri, United States.

[[Lake Lotawana, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Lake Lotawana is a city in Jackson County, Missouri, United States.

[[Lake Tapawingo, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Lake Tapawingo is a city in Jackson County, Missouri, United States.

[[Levasy, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Levasy is a city in Jackson County, Missouri, United States.

[[Lone Jack, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Lone Jack is a city in Jackson County, Missouri, United States.

[[Raytown, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Raytown is a city in Jackson County, Missouri, United States.

[[Yasmin Mogahed]]

CATEGORIES: American Muslims, American women writers, Living people, 1980 births

Yasmin Mogahed (born: 1980), is an international speaker and author, she focuses most of her work on spiritual and personal development. She received her B.S. Degree in Psychology and her Masters in Journalism and Mass Communications from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

[[Avondale, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Avondale is a city in Clay County, Missouri, United States.

[[Gladstone, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Gladstone is a city in Clay County, Missouri, United States.

[[Glenaire, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Glenaire is a city in Clay County, Missouri, United States.

[[Kearney, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Kearney is a city in Clay County, Missouri, United States.

[[Missouri City, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Missouri City is a city in Clay County, Missouri, United States.

[[Mosby, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Mosby is a city in Clay County, Missouri, United States.

[[North Kansas City, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

North Kansas City is a city in Clay County, Missouri, United States.

[[Pleasant Valley, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Pleasant Valley is a city in Clay County, Missouri, United States.

[[Randolph, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Randolph is a city in Clay County, Missouri, United States.

[[Fox Business]]

Fox Business (officially known as Fox Business Network) is an American business news channel owned by the Fox News Media division of Fox Corporation. The channel broadcasts primarily from studios at 1211 Avenue of the Americas in Midtown Manhattan. Launched on October 15, 2007, the network features trading day coverage and a nightly lineup of opinion-based talk shows.

Day-to-day operations are run by Kevin Magee, executive vice president of Fox News; Neil Cavuto is the vice president and managing editor for the network and business news operation overall.March 2021

As of February 2015, Fox Business Network is available to approximately 74,224,000 pay television households (63.8% of households with television) in the United States.

[[Gender bias in science]]

CATEGORIES: Gender, Discrimination

Gender bias is a set of words used in social science. Gender bias is when scientific studies are biased, or slanted, towards one gender. Studies with gender bias do not represent the true gender balance.

Gender bias has many causes:

[[MTV Entertainment]]

MTV Entertainment was a German pay-TV channel that was broadcast on the 1st December 2007 began broadcasting. Most recently, the station was received via several program providers in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The signal is supplied via the Astra satellite system. In Germany, the program could be obtained via the Sky Welt Extra platform. Since 1. April 2009, the station could also be received via Kabel Deutschland. MTV Entertainment was founded in Germany on the 1st January 2011 at 3:00 a.m. replaced by MTV Germany. In Switzerland, the station was broadcast on some networks from the 15th January 2011 replaced by MTV Brand New.

[[Sahakutumb Sahaparivar]]

Sahakutumb Sahaparivar (With The Family, With The Household) is a Marathi language drama which airs on Star Pravah. It stars Sunil Barve and Nandita Dhuri-Patkar. The show is produced by Ranjit Thakur & Hemant Ruparel under the banner of Frames Production.

[[Lagira Zala Ji]]

Lagira Zala Ji is an Indian Marathi language television Drama series. It started on 1 May 2017 and ended on 22 June 2019. It was produced by Shweta Shinde under Vajra Productions.

[[Johan Huizinga]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1945 deaths, Dutch historians, People from Groningen (city)

Johan Huizinga (7 December 1872 – 1 February 1945) was a Dutch historian, known as author of work The Autumn of the Middle Ages (1919). He was also employer of Groningen University and Leiden University.  

[[Chestnut flour]]

CATEGORIES: Flour

Chestnut flour, also called sweet flour, is a flour made by grinding chestnuts.

It has a hazelnut-like color and a sweet flavour. It is mainly made in Italian mountain regions, which is between 450 to 900 meters above sea level, where the sweet chestnut can be found. In the past, it was a important source for the regions as it is high in energy.

The chestnut in the time of San Benedetto was intensively cultivated due to famines and the plague in Tuscany in the 1300s that led the population to move in for finding support at the hills.

In Corsica, chestnut trees were introduced in the 16th century by the Genoese, and their spread had changed the culture of the island including its food.

[[Li Yin]]

CATEGORIES: 1610s births, 1685 deaths, Chinese painters, Chinese women artists, Chinese poets

Li Yin (Chinese::李因, Born 1610 - 1685) was a Poet, Painter, Calligrapher during late Ming Dynasty and in the early of Qing Dynasty, she is known for her Flowers and Birds on Painting

[[Lin Xue]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese painters

Lin Xue (Chinese:林雪) Was a Poet, Painter, Landscape Painter, Calligrapher during Ming Dynasty.

[[Sun Long]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese painters

Sun Long (Simplified Chinese::孙隆, Traditional Chinese:孫隆) Was a Landscape Pinter During Ming Dynasty.

[[Lust for Gold]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 movies, 1940s adventure movies, 1940s western movies, American adventure movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by S. Sylvain Simon

Lust for Gold is a 1949 American adventure western movie directed by S. Sylvain Simon and was based on the novel Thunder God's Gold by Barry Storm. It stars Ida Lupino, Glenn Ford, Gig Young, Edgar Buchanan, Paul Ford, Will Geer and Columbia Pictures.

[[Mangala]]

CATEGORIES: Mars

Mangala (Sanskrit: मङ्गल, IAST: Maṅgala) is the name for Mars, the red planet, in Hindu texts. Also known as Lohit (meaning: red), he is the god of anger, celibate and sometimes linked to god Kartikeya (Skanda).

[[The Runaround (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s mystery movies, American mystery movies, Movies directed by Charles Lamont

The Runaround is a 1946 American mystery movie directed by Charles Lamont and starring Rod Cameron, George Cleveland, Ella Raines, Charles Coleman, Joe Sawyer, Nana Bryant, Frank McHugh. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Frontier Gal]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Charles Lamont

Frontier Gal is a 1945 American western movie directed by Charles Lamont and starring Yvonne De Carlo, Rod Cameron, Andy Devine, Fuzzy Knight, Andrew Tombes, Sheldon Leonard, Clara Blandick, Jan Wiley. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[LIV Swiss Watches]]

CATEGORIES: 21st-century establishments in the United States, Companies of the United States

LIV Swiss Watches is a Swiss watch company in Miami, United States. LIV Swiss Watches' headquarters are in Miami, but most of its watches are made by hand and put together in Switzerland. It is the Swiss watch brand with the most crowdfunding support.

The watches are available worldwide. Magazines and newspapers in Switzerland, Germany, France, Japan, and other countries have written about them.

[[Rang Majha Vegla]]

Rang Majha Vegla (My Colour is Different) is an Indian Marathi soap opera that airs on Star Pravah. It started on 30 October 2019.

[[Repression of Uyghurs in China]]

The Repression of Uyghurs in China is all the human rights violations (going against human rights) in Xinjiang that are hurting Uyghurs. This is being done by the Chinese government. It isestimated that there are more than a million Uyghurs being persecuted. Some governments and human rights NGOs call the repression against Uyghurs a genocide (destroying a group of people). Not everybody agrees that the repression is a genocide though.

The Uyghurs

Thousands of mosques are being destroyed and damaged. Hundreds of thousands of children are being sent to boarding schools.

[[Ai (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, American R&B singers, J-pop singers, Japanese musicians, Japanese singers, Living people, People from Kagoshima Prefecture

Ai Carina Uemura, known mononymously as Ai (ai, stylized as AI or A.I. eɪ), is a Japanese-American singer-songwriter, record producer, spokeswoman, and actress. She is best known in Japan for her 2005 single "Story", which became one of the biggest singles of the 2000s in Japan, peaking at number 8 on the Japanese Oricon singles chart, and was the sixth single in history to receive a triple million digital certification by the Recording Industry Association of Japan (RIAJ).

[[Pyaar Ki Dhunn]]

Pyaar Ki Dhun is a 2021 romantic musical drama series, produced by 4 Lions Films starring Debmataa Saha, Simmba Nagpal & Sana Sayyed. The show is a spin-off of the 2018 musical saga Kulfi Kumar Bajewala.

[[The Leopard Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 movies, 1940s horror movies, American horror movies, American serial killer movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Jacques Tourneur

The Leopard Man is a 1943 American horror movie directed by Jacques Tourneur and was based on the novel Black Alibi by Cornell Woolrich. It stars Margo, Dennis O'Keefe, Jean Brooks, Isabel Jewell, Abner Biberman and was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[The Fabulous Texan]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Edward Ludwig

The Fabulous Texan is a 1947 American western movie directed by Edward Ludwig and starring Wild Bill Elliott, John Carroll, Catherine McLeod, Albert Dekker, Andy Devine, Patricia Knight, Ruth Donnelly, Harry Davenport, Johnny Sands. It was distributed by Republic Pictures.

[[Blackmail (1947 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 movies, 1940s action movies, 1940s crime movies, American action movies, American crime movies, Movies directed by Lesley Selander

Blackmail is a 1947 American action crime movie directed by Lesley Selander and starring William Marshall, Adele Mara, Ricardo Cortez, Grant Withers, Stephanie Bachelor, Ray Barcroft, Gregory Gaye. It was distributed by Republic Pictures.

[[Kaluga]]

Kaluga (Калуга) is a city in Kaluga Oblast, Russia. It is the capital of Kaluga Oblast of Russia. As of 2012, the city has 328,871 people.

[[Daughters of the Polo God]]

CATEGORIES: Movie industry, Meitei culture, Women's rights

Daughters of the Polo God is a 2018 Indian Meitei-English bilingual documentary movie. It is directed by Roopa Baruah. It is edited by Hemanti Sarkar. It is based on the unique story of girls and horses empowering each other. It is the story about the saving of the endangered Meitei horse (Manipuri pony) and empowering women in the sport of polo (Sagol Kangjei) at the same time.

The movie shows how the Manipuri women moves forward in a male dominated sportive society. It also shows the development of the special relationship with their Meitei horses (Manipuri ponies). They are trying at their best levels to participate in the annual polo tournament. 

The movie begins from Sagol Kangjei (Sakol Kangchei), the ancient polo as a wartime peace exercise in Antique Kangleipak (Ancient Manipur). And it ended up with the present day advancements of the Manipur Horse Riding and Polo Association. It produces cultural, ecological, historical and social relationship between the sport, the horses and the ethnicity of the land.

[[Blagoveshchensk]]

Blagoveshchensk (Благовещенск) is a city in Russia's Amur Oblast. It is the capital of Amur Oblast. As of 2015, the city has 805,000 people. People from Blagoveshchensk can see Heihe in Mainland China, because it is in the China-Russia border.

[[Pithecopus ayeaye]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The reticulate leaf frog (Pithecopus ayeaye) is a frog that lives in Brazil.

[[Murder of Marina Sabatier]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 births, 2009 deaths, 2009 crimes, Children victims of violence

June 2014

The Marina affair  is a  French judicial and administrative affair connected with the death of   Marina Sabatier in France in August 2009, at the age of 8 years, as a result of the abuse inflicted by her two parents Éric Sabatier and Virginie Darras, and at the end of a life of maltreatment  suffered by the child.

At the end of a trial in June 2012 in the Court of Assizes of the French department  the Sarthe, the parents were sentenced to 30 years imprisonment, without possibility of parole for  a period of 20 years, for acts of torture and barbarity on Marina over a duration of approximately 6 years that led to  their daughter's death. The couple,  moving frequently to complicate investigations, concealed violence on Marina by systematic untrue statements on the origin of the girl's injuries, and were even helped by Marina, who, like many abused children, continued despite everything to love her parents and  never denounced them.

[[Olumide Makanjuola]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT people from Nigeria

Olumide Makanjuola is a human rights activist and supporter of LGBT rights. Makanjuola was the director of The Initiative for Equal rights (TIERS) and is the program director for  Initiative Sankofa d’Afrique de l’Ouest (ISDAO) which supports grants to LGBTQ communities in West Africa improving LGBT rights and safety.

In 2016 Makanjuola was given a Queen's Young Leaders Award for work for the LGBTQ community.

[[Surah Hud]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran

Surah Hud (هود, ar), is the 11th surah of the Qur'an , the religious book of Muslims; There are 123 verses and 10 ruku's. Surah Hud has been revealed in Makkah . This surah speaks of the wrath (divine punishment) upon the previous nations and various kinds of severe torment (pre-determined punishment) and the terrible events of the Day of Resurrection and the rewards and punishments.

[[Surah Yusuf]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran

Surah Yusuf (يوسف,ar); is the 12th surah of the Muslim religious book, the Qur'an, with 111 verses and 12 verses. Surah Yusuf in Makkah Revealed. Although the events of the other prophets are mentioned in different surahs of the Qur'an, only the events of Yusuf are narrated in full continuity in Surah Yusuf of the Qur'an. Between world history and past experience lies a great lesson for the future life of man. The normal response to these teachings is deeper than normal education in the human mind and brain. That is why the Qur'an, sent as the latest guide for the whole human race, contains selected chapters of the history of the nations of the world, which are effective instruments for the present and future correction of mankind.

[[Daylighting]]

Daylighting is where natural light comes through windows, skylights and other openings.

[[Surah Ar-Ra'd]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran

Ar-Rad (الرعد ar), is the 13th surah of the Qur'an, with 43 verses. This surah has been revealed in Medina.

[[Surah Ibrahim]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran

Surah Ibrahim (إبراهيم, ar; Arabic synonym of "Abraham"); is the fourteenth chapter of Muslim religious book al-Quran. This surah was revealed in Mecca and the number of verses are 52.

[[Accusation of Manuel de León]]

CATEGORIES: Accuracy disputes, Judges, Mathematicians

Spanish mathematician Manuel de León was removed from the head of the Madrid Institute of Mathematical Sciences, accused of mismanagement.

Manuel was restored to his post, by order of the Superior Court of Justice of the Community of Madrid, but only for 10 days.

[[Number field]]

CATEGORIES: Algebraic number theory

The study of algebraic number fields, and, more generally, of algebraic extensions of the field of rational numbers, is the central topic of algebraic number theory.

[[Field extension]]

CATEGORIES: Algebraic number theory

[[Subfield]]

CATEGORIES: Set theory

[[Field axioms]]

CATEGORIES: Algebraic number theory

Field axioms are the rules a field satisfies.

[[Commutativity of addition]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory

The commutative property of addition is the property which states that changing the order of addends does not change the sum. 

[[L-functions and modular forms database]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Databases

L-functions and modular forms database is an extensive database of mathematical objects arising in number theory.

It can be used for searching modular forms, elliptic curves, number fields (and fields), L-functions...

[[Subgroup]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

[[Normal subgroup]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

[[Jenga]]

Jenga is a block building game created by board game creator Leslie Scott, and owned by Hasbro in terms of marketing. In this game, players take turns removing blocks from a 54 built tower and replacing them at the top without making the tower fall.

[[Grammar of Interlingue]]

CATEGORIES: Interlingue

Interlingue is a constructed language. It was called Occidental between 1922 and 1947. Edgar de Wahl, one of the first Esperantists, created it. De Wahl was from the city of Tallinn in Estonia, which was in the Russian Empire but later became its own country. He spoke German, Russian, Estonian and French since he was a child and had natural ability in languages. He is often called de Wahl.

Interlingue looks a lot like languages in the Romance language family: French, Spanish, Italian, and so on. De Wahl made a rule called De Wahl's rule that made changing verbs to nouns easier and more regular. For example, the word exploder (to explode) regularly changes its d to s (making explosion) when following this rule.

[[History of Interlingue]]

CATEGORIES: Interlingue

Interlingue is a constructed language. It was called Occidental between 1922 and 1947. Edgar de Wahl, one of the first Esperantists, created it. De Wahl was from the city of Tallinn in Estonia, which was in the Russian Empire but later became its own country. He spoke German, Russian, Estonian and French since he was a child and had natural ability in languages. He is often called de Wahl.

De Wahl was not happy with Esperanto. He decided to create a language called "Occidental". He published it in 1922. In 1949 the name of the language was changed to Interlingue.

After a period in which the language was almost dead (between 1950 and 1990), the Internet helped Interlingue revive.

[[States Assembly]]

CATEGORIES: Jersey

The States Assembly (Assemblée des États; Jèrriais: Êtats d'Jèrri) is the parliament of the British Crown dependency of Jersey. They are elected directly every four years.

[[Dick Parfitt]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, College basketball coaches, Sportspeople from Michigan

Richard Allen Parfitt (May 13, 1931 – September 6, 2021) was an American college basketball coach. He was head coach for Central Michigan University (CMU) from 1971 to 1985.

Parfitt died on September 6, 2021 in Mount Pleasant, Michigan at age 90.

[[Gene Littles]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, National Basketball Association coaches, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C., African-American basketball players

Eugene Scape Littles (June 29, 1943 – September 9, 2021) was an American basketball player and coach. He was born in Washington, D.C.. He coached the Charlotte Hornets between 1990 until 1991 and for the Denver Nuggets from 1994 until 1995.

Littles died on September 9, 2021 at the age of 78.

[[Andrey Makeyev]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, Soviet Olympic medalists, Olympic bronze medalists, Basketball players

Andrey Gennadyevich Makeyev (Андрей Геннадьевич Макеев; 3 February 1952 – 13 September 2021) was a Soviet basketball player. He played for the Soviet Union in the 1976 Summer Olympics and won a bronze medal. He was born in Petrozavodsk, Karelo-Finnish SSR, Soviet Union.

Makeyev died on 13 September 2021 in Saint Petersburg, Russia at the age of 69.

[[Ida Nudel]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Soviet people, Israeli activists, Economists

Ida Yakovlevna Nudel (אידה נודל; Ида Яковлевна Нудель) (April 27, 1931 – September 14, 2021) was a refusenik and an Israeli activist. She was known as the "Guardian Angel". She tried to help Jewish political prisoners escape from the Soviet Union. In 1987, she left the Soviet Union and moved to Israel.

She wrote an autobiography: "A Hand in the Darkness". The movie Mosca Addio (Farewell Moscow) was made about her escape from the Soviet Union.

Nudel died on 14 September 2021 at the age of 90.

[[Rehovot]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Israel

Rehovot (רְחוֹבוֹת) is a city in the Central District of Israel, about 20 south of Tel Aviv.

[[Vicente Zarzo Pitarch]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish writers, Spanish musicians

Vicente Zarzo Pitarch (6 May 1938 – 14 September 2021) was a Spanish horn player. He wrote many books on the history and technique of the horn.

For 25 years Zarzo was principal horn in The Hague Philharmonic (Residentie Orkest) and others. He also played as horn soloist for the Valencia Orchestra, the Symphony Orchestra of the Gran Teatre del Liceu in Barcelona, the Iceland Symphony Orchestra in Reykjavík, the American Wind Symphony Orchestra in Pittsburgh, and the National Orchestra of Mexico.

Zarzo Pitarch died on 14 September 2021 at age 83.

[[Rob Duhamel]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s births, 2021 deaths, Jersey people, European politicians

Robert Charles "Rob" Duhamel (1954/1955 – September 2021) was a Jersey politician. He was a member of the States of Jersey between 1993 and 2014. He also was Planning and Environment Minister from 2011 until 2014.

Duhamel died in St. Saviour, Jersey in September 2021, aged 66.

[[Xavi Simons]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, People from Amsterdam

Xavier Quentin Shay Simons (born 21 April 2003) is a Dutch professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Ligue 1 club Paris Saint-Germain.

Born in Amsterdam, Simons is the son of Dutch former footballer Regillio Simons. Simons is of Surinamese descent through his father and of Dutch descent through his mother. His brother Faustino, who also played football, shares the same birthday as him.

[[Lieutenant Governor of Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Jersey

The Lieutenant Governor of Jersey (Lieutenant-Gouverneur de Jersey, Jèrriais: Gouvèrneux d'Jèrri) is the representative of the British monarch in the Bailiwick of Jersey, a Crown dependency of the British Crown.

[[Stephen Dalton]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Governors of Jersey

Air Chief Marshal Sir Stephen Gary George Dalton, GBR (born 23 April 1954) is a retired Royal Air Force commander and current Lieutenant Governor of Jersey since 2017.

[[John McColl (British Army officer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Governors of Jersey

General Sir John Chalmers McColl, GBR (born 17 April 1952) is a retired senior British Army officer. He was the Lieutenant Governor of Jersey from 2011 until 2016. McColl was Deputy Supreme Allied Commander Europe from 2007 to 2011.

[[Chief Minister of Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Chief Ministers of Jersey

The Chief Minister of Jersey (Premier Ministre de Jersey; Chef Minnistre dé Jèrri) is the head of government of Jersey. He is in charge of the Council of Ministers, which makes up part of the Government of Jersey. 

[[Frank Walker (Jersey politician)]]

CATEGORIES: Chief Ministers of Jersey, Living people

Frank Harrison Walker OBE is a former British newspaper publisher and politician. He was the first Chief Minister of Jersey, serving from 2005 to 2008.

[[Terry Le Sueur]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1942 births, Chief Ministers of Jersey

Terence Augustine Le Sueur OBE was Chief Minister of Jersey between 2008 and 2011.

Le Sueur was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2012 New Year Honours for political service.

[[Ian Gorst]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Chief Ministers of Jersey, Politicians from Lancashire

Ian Joseph Gorst (born 15 December 1969) is a Jersey politician. He is a member of the States Assembly since 5 December 2005 and is the Minister for External Relations. He was the Chief Minister of Jersey for two terms, from 18 November 2011 until 7 June 2018.

[[John Le Fondré]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Chief Ministers of Jersey

John Alexander Nicholas Le Fondré is a Jersey politician. He is the Chief Minister of Jersey. He entered the States Assembly in 2005.

[[Justín Javorek]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Slovakian sportspeople, European footballers, Football managers

Justín Javorek (14 September 1936 – 15 September 2021) was a Slovak football coach and goalkeeper. He played for the Czechoslovakia national team. From 1959 until 1969, he played for the Inter Bratislava.

[[Žana Lelas]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2021 deaths, Croatian sportspeople, Olympic silver medalists, Basketball players, People from Split

Žana Lelas (28 May 1970 – 15 September 2021) was a Croatian professional basketball player. She represented Yugoslavia and Croatia. She won a silver medal at the 1988 Summer Olympics.

[[Marthe Mercadier]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2021 deaths, French movie actors, French television actors, French stage actors, French voice actors, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease

Marthe Mercadier (23 October 1928 – 15 September 2021) was a French actress. She was known for her roles as Une in Three Telegrams (1950), Simone in The Night Is My Kingdom (1951) and as Annette in Rendezvous in Grenada (1951).

Mercadier died on 15 September 2021 in Puteaux, France from problems caused by Alzheimer's disease at the age of 92.

[[2018 International Congress of Mathematicians]]

CATEGORIES: 2018, Brazil, Rio de Janeiro

The 2018 International Congress of Mathematicians was the twenty-eight International Congress of Mathematicians held in Rio de Janeiro from August 1 to August 9, 2018.

[[2014 International Congress of Mathematicians]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 in Asia, 2014, South Korea, Seoul

The 2014 International Congress of Mathematicians was the twenty-seventh International Congress of Mathematicians held in Seoul from August 13 to August 21, 2014.

[[Colin Urquhart]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, British Christians, Writers from London

Colin Urquhart (1940 – 13 September 2021) was a British Christian, evangelical, apostolic and  neocharismatic leader in the United Kingdom. He was born in Twickenham, England. He was an important person during the Charismatic Renewal movement in the 1960s and 1970s.

Urquhart died on 13 September 2021 from cancer at the age of 81.

[[Twickenham]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London

Twickenham in a southwest borough in London, England. It is on the River Thames.

[[Red-necked avocet]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Australia

The red-necked avocet (Recurvirostra novaehollandiae) is a bird in the family Recurvirostridae.  It lives in many parts of Australia, not far from the coast. It also lived in New Zealand in the 1800s, but people have not seen it there for a long time.

[[CounterPunch]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines

CounterPunch is a left-wing magazine. It is bi-weekly meaning that it posts twice a week. The website says that its funds (money) comes from their readers.

[[Universal Television]]

CATEGORIES: Companies based in California

Universal Television LLC (abbreviated as UTV) is an American television production company that is a subsidiary of Universal Studio Group, a division of Comcast's NBCUniversal. It serves the television production arm of NBC; a predecessor of the company previously assumed such functions, and a substantial portion of the company's shows air on the network. It was formerly known as Revue Studios, Universal Pictures Television Department, Universal-International Television, MCA/Universal, MTE Inc., NBC Productions, NBC Studios, Studios USA Television LLC, Universal Network Television, Universal Domestic Television, USA Cable Entertainment, NBC Universal Television Studio, and Universal Media Studios. Re-established in 2004, both NBC Studios and the original Universal Network Television are predecessors of Universal Media Studios, formerly known as NBC Universal Television Studio, they produced Happy Tree Friends on NBC.

[[Inspiration4]]

CATEGORIES: September 2021 events

Inspiration4, also seen as Inspirati④n, is a current human spaceflight mission. It is operated by SpaceX. The mission launched on September 15, 2021 from the Kennedy Space Center's Launch Complex 39A.

The mission wanted to become the first in orbital spaceflight for private citizens aboard. It was also to raise awareness for the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee. Four crew members; Hayley Arceneaux, Christopher Sembroski, Sian Proctor, and Shift4 Payments CEO Jared Isaacman will spend three days in orbit.

The flight is planned to orbit at an altitude of 575.

[[Towner, North Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Dakota, County seats in North Dakota

Towner is a city in McHenry County, North Dakota. It is the county seat of McHenry County. The population was 533 at the time of the 2010 census.

[[Head of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan

The Head of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (Damshīr Də Afġānistān Islāmī Imārat) is the supreme leader of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, the de facto government of Afghanistan.

[[Prime Minister of Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Afghanistan

The Prime Minister of Afghanistan (د افغانستان لومړی وزیر,   رئیس‌الوزرای افغانستان) is a post within the cabinet of Afghanistan. It was created in 1927 and later abolished after the US invasion

.

After the Fall of Kabul, on September 7, 2021 the Taliban officials re-created the office. 

[[Gulbuddin Hekmatyar]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Afghanistan

Gulbuddin Hekmatyar (ګلبدين حكمتيار; born 1 August 1949) is an Afghan politician. He was a mujahideen leader. He is the founder and current leader of the Hezb-e-Islami Gulbuddin political party. He was the Prime Minister twice during the 1990s.

[[Sultan Ali Keshtmand]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Vice Presidents of Afghanistan, Prime Ministers of Afghanistan

Sultan Ali Keshtmand (سلطان‌علی کشتمند; born May 22, 1935), sometimes transliterated Kishtmand, was an Afghan politician. He was the Chairman of the Council of Ministers twice during the 1980s, from 1981 to 1988 and from 1989 to 1990 in the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan.

[[Baraga, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Michigan

Baraga (ˈ BAIR) is a village in Baraga County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 2,053 at the 2010 census.

[[River of Romance]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 movies, 1920s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Richard Wallace

River of Romance is a 1929 American drama movie directed by Richard Wallace and was based on the play Magnolia by Booth Tarkington. It stars Charles Buddy Rogers, Mary Brian, June Collyer, Henry B. Walthall, Wallace Berry, Fred Kohler, Natalie Kingston, Walter McGrail and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Cabinet of prime minister Akhund]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Afghanistan

The executive power of the government of Afghanistan, is headed by prime minister Hasan Akhund. His time in power started in 2021. 

[[Meira Paibi]]

CATEGORIES: Women's rights

The Meira Paibi (torch bearer woman) refers to the traditional women's social organisations and their movements against all forms of social evils. They stand especially against the cruelty of the Indian Army and the military forces, in Manipur, India. They are referred to as the "Guardians of civil society". The name derives from the flaming torches which the women carry. It has become the symbol for peaceful protest for justice at all levels of life.

The meira paibi is the largest basic level, unarmed movement fighting with the state's inhumanity and human rights violations in Manipur. The womenfolk have always faced the strength of the armed forces with nothing other than their unity and will power for many decades. 

These women's organisations stop the arrest of menfolk by the paramilitaries, without much causes or good proofs. Generally, the meira paibi groups are formed in the peopled areas of Imphal and other places in the valley of Manipur. They are usually the patrollers of the streets, mainly at night time. They often constitute a large, unified and disciplined group at public gatherings, especially for protests.

Today, every Meitei locality has the organisations of the meira paibi. They did this to save Manipur from being a land of victims and unhappiness. In fact, with the dedicated contributions of the meira paibis, the drug abuse patterns have been effectively reduced.

[[List of state leaders in 1960]]

CATEGORIES: 1960

[[List of state leaders in 1961]]

CATEGORIES: 1961

[[List of state leaders in 1962]]

CATEGORIES: 1962

[[List of state leaders in 1963]]

CATEGORIES: 1963

[[List of state leaders in 1964]]

CATEGORIES: 1964

[[List of state leaders in 1965]]

CATEGORIES: 1965

[[List of state leaders in 1966]]

CATEGORIES: 1966

[[List of state leaders in 1967]]

CATEGORIES: 1967

[[List of state leaders in 1968]]

CATEGORIES: 1968

[[Clement Agba]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Nigerian politicians

Prince Clem Agba (born March 28, 1964) is a Nigerian politician and the current Minister of State, Budget and National Planning.

[[List of state leaders in 1969]]

CATEGORIES: 1969

[[Ebrahim Sanyang]]

Ebrahim Sanyang is a Traditional Crown Custodian, Investor, Development Economist, and Philanthropist.

Sanyang of Gambia is The Farim Batelling and 8th “Sibi Karang Mansa” (The Custodian) of historical Soninke Royal Realm stool established in 1307 (801 years old, circa 2020). A traditional Royal Order and Blood Lineage dating back to the ruling dynasties and royal household of Mali Empire and Kaabu Empires

[[Aminu Ado Bayero]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people

Aminu Ado Bayero (born 10 February 1961) is the 15th Fulani Emir of Kano from the Fulani Sullubawa clan.

[[My Darling Clementine]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s western movies, American romance movies, American western movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by John Ford

My Darling Clementine is a 1946 American romantic western movie directed by John Ford and was based on the 1931 novel Wyatt Earp: Frontier Marshal by Stuart N. Lake. It stars Henry Fonda, Ward Bond, Linda Darnell, Victor Mature, Walter Brennan, Cathy Downs, Tim Holt, Grant Withers and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Big Noise]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Malcolm St. Clair

The Big Noise is 1944 American comedy movie directed by Malcolm St. Clair and starring Stan Laurel, Oliver Hardy, Arthur Space, Doris Merrick, Esther Howard, Veda Ann Borg. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Devmanus]]

Devmanus (trans-God Figure) is an Indian Marathi language crime thriller television series. The show was aired Monday to Saturday at 10:30 pm on Zee Marathi and also digitally available on ZEE5.

[[Lagnachi Wife Weddingchi Bayku]]

Lagnachi Wife Weddingchi Bayku is an Indian Marathi language television comedy series. It started on 21 October 3019 and ended on 3 April 2020. It was produced by Sanjay Zankar under Zankar Films.

[[Gaav Gata Gajali]]

Gaav Gata Gajali is an Indian Marathi language series that aired on Zee Marathi. It was produced by Sunil Bhosale under Sajari Creations. The series premiered on 2 August 2017 from Wednesday to Saturday at 9.30 pm by replacing Chuk Bhul Dyavi Ghyavi. It again premiered on 13 September 2018 at 10 pm by replacing Hum To Tere Aashiq Hain.

[[Jaago Mohan Pyare]]

Jaago Mohan Pyare is an Indian Marathi language comedy and supernatural fantasy show which aired on Zee Marathi. It starred Atul Parchure, Shruti Marathe, Supriya Pathare and Usha Naik in lead roles.

[[Baillon's crake]]

CATEGORIES: Birds

Baillon's crake (Porzana pusilla) is a bird in the family Gruiformes.  It lives in many parts of Asia, Europe, Africa, and Oceania.

[[Pithecopus palliatus]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The jaugar leaf frog or jaguar monkey frog (Pithecopus palliatus) is a frog that lives in Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, and Bolivia. Scientists think it might also live in Colombia.

The adult frog is 3.8 to 4.4 cm long from nose to rear end and the adult female frog is 3.9 to 4.9 cm long.

This frog lays eggs near bodies of water that are not there all year, for example flooded places.  They lay eggs on leaves near the water.

[[Alcorcón]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Community of Madrid, Municipalities in the Community of Madrid

Alcorcón (al.koɾˈkon) is a city and municipality of Spain located in the Community of Madrid. In 2016, 167,354 people lived there.

[[Fireflies (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Women's rights, 2018 movies

Fireflies is a 2018 Indian Meitei language documentary short movie, directed by Johnson Rajkumar. It is based on the journey of the Meira Paibis, depicting their struggles to protect the people from the crimes in Manipur state. It also shows the role of women in the conflicting and male dominated society of Manipur. It clearly looks into how the gender gap and gender identities are settled during times of conflict and violence in the society.

There is a concept of women expressing their needs and turning up in big level. It contributes to a larger result they have created in a collective risky and daring journey. This proves their courage when they became expressive against the rising cases of improper disappearance of menfolk. This took place after the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) was applied to Manipur state. The real important fact of the movie is that women stand up for the safety, security and better survival of their male counterparts.

[[Quotient group]]

Simply, we can say that the quotient group of N in G as all elements in G that are not in N.

This set is used in the proof of Lagrange's theorem, for instance. In fact, the proof of Lagrange's theorem establishes that if  

[[Fuenlabrada]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Community of Madrid, Municipalities in the Community of Madrid

Fuenlabrada (fwenlaˈβɾaða) is a city and municipality of Spain located in the Community of Madrid. In 2018, 193,586 people lived there.

[[Leganés]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Community of Madrid, Municipalities in the Community of Madrid

Leganés (le.ɣa.ˈnes) is a city in the Community of Madrid, Spain. Considered part of the Madrid metropolitan area, it is located about 11 km southwest of the centre of Madrid. In 2018, 188,425 people lived there.

[[Coslada]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Community of Madrid, Municipalities in the Community of Madrid

Coslada (kozˈlaða) is a city and municipality in the Community of Madrid in central Spain.

[[Parla]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Community of Madrid, Municipalities in the Community of Madrid

Parla (ˈpaɾ.la) is a municipality in the Community of Madrid, Spain.

[[Kingdom of Aragon]]

CATEGORIES: Former countries in Europe, 1707 disestablishments, 11th century establishments in Europe, History of Spain

The Kingdom of Aragon was a medieval kingdom on the Iberian Peninsula, correlating with the modern-day autonomous community of Aragon, in Spain. It should not be confused with the bigger Crown of Aragon, which had other territories including the Principality of Catalonia (which had the former Catalan Counties), the Kingdom of Valencia, the Kingdom of Majorca, and other nations that are now part of France, Italy, and Greece that were under the rule of the King of Aragon, but were controlled separately from the Kingdom of Aragon.

In 1479, after John II of Aragon’s death, the crowns of Aragon and Castile were united to form the core of Spain. The Aragonese lands, however, still had autonomous parliamentary and administrative institutions, such as the Corts, until the Nueva Planta decrees, enforced between 1707 and 1715 by Philip V of Spain, following the War of the Spanish Succession, was ended.

[[Sunflower butter]]

CATEGORIES: Nut butters

Sunflower butter, also called sunflower seed butter, is a nut butter like spread made from sunflower seeds. It is commonly used as a alternative for people with nut allergies. It has a mild flavor if other flavors like salt and sugar aren't added to it.

In 2011, brands of sunflower butter had came to most retail stores.

[[Kingdom of Kongo]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 disestablishments, Former countries in Africa, 1390 establishments

The Kingdom of Kongo was a kingdom located in central Africa in northern Angola, the western part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Republic of the Congo, and the southern part of Gabon. At its greatest size it reached from the Atlantic Ocean to the west, the Kwango River to the east, the Congo River to the north, and the Kwanza River to the south. The kingdom was made up of many provinces ruled by the Manikongo, the Portuguese version of the Kongo title Mwene Kongo, meaning "lord or ruler of the Kongo kingdom", but its sphere of influence reached to neighbouring kingdoms, like Ngoyo, Kakongo, Loango, Ndongo, and Matamba, the latter two located in Angola.

[[Roberta Rodrigues]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Brazilian actors, Brazilian singers

Roberta de Souza Rodrigues (born October 20, 1982) is a Brazilian actress and singer. She began her career in 2002 in the film City of God and gained prominence in some  telenovelas such as Mulheres Apaixonadas in 2003, Salve Jorge in 2012 and A Regra do Jogo in 2015, Roberta dated Thiago Martins. 

Rodrigues was born in Rio de Janeiro. 

[[Aïr Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Niger

The Aïr Mountains is a triangular massif, located in north Niger, inside the Sahara. They rise to more than 1800 and go over 84000. In the desert, north of the Aïr plateau, with an average altitude between 500, forms an island of Sahel, which supports a wide variety of life, many pastoral and farming communities, and geological and archaeological sites. There are notable archaeological findings in the region that picture together the prehistoric past of this land. The endangered African wild dog (Lycaon pictus) once existed in this region, but may now be locally extinct due to human population pressure in this region.

[[Marsh crake]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of New Zealand

The marsh crake or koitareke (Porzana pusilla affinis) is a bird in the family Gruiformes.  It is a subspecies of Baillon's crake. It lives in New Zealand.

[[San Elizario, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

San Elizario is a city in El Paso County, Texas, United States.

[[Crandall, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Crandall is a city in Kaufman County, Texas, United States.

[[Kemp, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Kemp is a city in Kaufman County, Texas, United States.

[[Talty, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Talty is a city in Kaufman County, Texas, United States.

[[Driscoll, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Driscoll is a city in Nueces County, Texas, United States.

[[Petronila, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Petronila is a city in Nueces County, Texas, United States.

[[Port Aransas, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Port Aransas is a city in Nueces County, Texas, United States.

[[Robstown, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Robstown is a city in Nueces County, Texas, United States.

[[Lakeport, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Lakeport is a city in Gregg County, Texas, United States.

[[White Oak, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

White Oak is a city in Gregg County, Texas, United States.

[[Career Ahead Magazine]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 establishments in Asia, Magazines of Asia

[[No Means No]]

CATEGORIES: Thriller movies

No Means No (also known as Nie Means Nie) is an upcoming Indo-Polish romantic thriller film, which was shot simultaneously in three languages: English, Hindi and Polish. Produced by G7 Films Poland and directed by Vikash Verma, it stars Dhruv Verma, Gulshan Grover, Sharad Kapoor, Raaj Vishwakarma and Anna Guzik. The film follows  an Indian ski champion (Dhruv Verma), who participates in a ski championship in Poland. There he falls in love with a Polish girl. Initially scheduled to be released on 22 March 2021, but postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic in India, finally it is scheduled for theatrical release on 5 November 2021 to coincide with Diwali festival.

[[Running Shaadi]]

CATEGORIES: Romantic comedy movies

Running Shaadi ('Running wedding'), previously known as: Runningshaadi.com, is an Indian romantic comedy film produced by Shoojit Sircar and Crouching Tiger Motion Pictures about the unique concept of helping people elope to get married. The unlikely duo of a conscientious Bihari and a Sardarji geek create a platform providing "High Take Social Service" to Indian couples who want to spend their lives with their soulmates. The film was shot in late 2013. The film was released on 17 February 2017.

The Shoojit Sircar production stars Amit Sadh, Taapsee Pannu, Saahir Banwait, Raaj Vishwakarma and Arsh Bajwa. It was released in over 1,100 screens with music from an assembled list of performers.

[[Tadap (2021 film)]]

Tadap (Yearning) is an upcoming Indian Hindi-language romantic action drama film directed by Milan Luthria and produced by Sajid Nadiadwala . A remake of the Telugu film RX 100 (2018), the film stars debutant Ahan Shetty and Tara Sutaria. The film is scheduled to be released theatrically on 3 December 2021.

[[Disney Renaissance]]

CATEGORIES: Disney

The Disney Renaissance was an era of Disney animated features, from The Little Mermaid (1989) to Tarzan (1999). Between the years 1989 and 1994, it came The Little Mermaid (1989), Beauty and the Beast (1991), Aladdin (1992), and The Lion King (1994). These films earned Oscar nominations and wins. The Rescuers Down Under (1990) is the only film of Disney Renaissance that bombed at the box office. After Eisner lost his two friends, it came underrated Disney animated films in the mid to late 1990's, including Pocahontas (1995), The Hunchback of Notre Dame (1996), Hercules (1997), Mulan (1998), and Tarzan (1999).

[[BoJack Horseman]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 American television series debuts, 2010s American sitcoms, American animated television series

BoJack Horseman is an American adult animated tragicomedy sitcom created by Raphael Bob-Waksberg. It stars the voices of Will Arnett, Amy Sedaris, Alison Brie, Paul F. Tompkins, and Aaron Paul. Set primarily in Hollywood, the series tells the story of an anthropomorphic horse named BoJack Horseman (Arnett), the washed-up star of a 1990s sitcom who plans his return to celebrity relevance with an autobiography to be written by ghostwriter Diane Nguyen (Brie). He also has to contend with his agent Princess Carolyn (Sedaris), roommate Todd Chavez (Paul), and former rival Mr. Peanutbutter (Tompkins), as well as his struggles with depression and addiction. The show is designed by cartoonist Lisa Hanawalt, who has been friends with Bob-Waksberg since high school and had previously worked with him on the webcomic Tip Me Over, Pour Me Out

[[Zing Zing Zingat]]

Zing Zing Zingat is a musical battle game show aired on Zee Marathi.

[[Mauricio Rosero]]

CATEGORIES: Colombian singers, 1991 births, Living people

Mauricio Rosero González (Pasto, Nariño, Colombia, April 30, 1991)  is a Colombian motivational speaker, singer and influencer, residing in the United States, best known mainly for being part of the musical group Son M&M Salsa and for his social work through audiovisual media in support of the Latino community.

In 2018, he represented Colombia at the Latino Impact Summit, organized by the United Nations (UN) in New York.

[[Ase He Kanyadan]]

Ase He Kanyadan is an Indian Marathi language series that aired on Zee Marathi. The story deals with the father-daughter relationship.

[[It's Pony]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 television series debuts, Nickelodeon television series, American animated television series

It's Pony is an American animated action-Slice of Life sitcom TV show created by Ant Blades for Nickelodeon.

The show follows the life of Annie as she does her best to cope in her parents' farm (located on the balcony of their apartment) to the everyday struggles of being a 9-year-old in the city. Luckily, she has a pony.

[[Blac Chyna]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, American businesspeople, American models

Blac Chyna (born May 11, 1988) is a American model and socialite.

[[Asmita (TV series)]]

It is a story of Asmita, a private detective girl, where she solve crime cases with here partners.

[[Swae Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, African-American rappers, American rap musicians from Mississippi, Singers from Mississippi

Swae Lee (born June 7, 1993) is a American rapper, singer, and songwriter.

[[Rae Sremmurd]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop bands

Rae Sremmurd is a American hip hop duo from Tupelo, Mississippi.

[[Nav (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births

NAV (born November 3, 1989) is a  Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter, and record producer from Toronto, Ontario.

[[Pooh Shiesty]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, Living people, American rap musicians

Pooh Shiesty (born November 8, 1999) is a American rapper.

[[100 Days (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 Indian television series debuts, 2017 Indian television series endings

100 Days is a Marathi language television crime series that aired on Zee Marathi from 24 October 2016 to 17 February 2017.

[[Soul food]]

CATEGORIES: American food

Soul food is an group ethnic foods traditionally made and eaten by African Americans, coming from the Southern United States.

[[Pan-African flag]]

CATEGORIES: African-American people

The Pan-African flag was created in 1920 to represent people of the African Diaspora and to symbolize black liberation in the United States. 

[[Franco-Provençal language]]

CATEGORIES: Romance languages

Franco-Provençal (also Francoprovençal, Patois, Gaga, Savoyard or Arpitan) is a dialect group within Gallo-Romance originally spoken in east-central France, western Switzerland and northwestern Italy.

Franco-Provençal is also spoken in rural areas of French-speaking Switzerland.

In France, it is one of the three Gallo-Romance language families of the country (together with the langues d'oïl and the langues d'oc), and it is officially recognized as a regional language of France, but its use in the country is not important. Still, organizations are trying to keep it through cultural events, education, research, and publishing.

[[Gunna (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, American rap musicians from Georgia

Gunna (born June 14, 1993) is a American rapper.

[[42 Dugg]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, Singers from Detroit, Michigan, American songwriters

42 Dugg (born November 25, 1995) is an American rapper.

[[Met Gala]]

CATEGORIES: Fashion, 1948 establishments

Met Gala or Met Ball is an annual festival for the benefit of the Metropolitan Musem of Art's Costume Institute in New York City. It's also about annual fashion exhibit where the celebrities take part in. The Met Gala was established in 1948. Since 1973 this event has become "a jewel in New York City’s social crown". This is also called as the Super Bowl of fashion. 

[[Glosa (auxiliary language)]]

CATEGORIES: Constructed languages

Glosa is an international auxiliary language. It was based on an older draft auxiliary language from 1943 called Interglossa. Glosa is an isolating language, which means that words never change form, and spelling is completely regular and phonetic.

As an isolating language, there are no inflections, so that words always remain in their dictionary form, no matter what function they have in the sentence. As a result, grammatical functions, when not clear from the context, are taken over by a small number of operator words and by the use of word order (syntax).

Glosa takes most of its vocabulary from Greek and Latin roots, seen by the authors as international in a sense by their usage in science.

[[History of France]]

CATEGORIES: History of France

The first written records for the history of France appeared in the Iron Age. What is now France made up the most of the area known to the Romans as Gaul. Greek writers noted the presence of three main ethno-linguistic groups in the area: the Gauls, the Aquitani, and the Belgae. The Gauls, the largest group, were Celts that spoke what is known as the Gaulish language.

Over the course of the first millennium BC the Greeks, Romans and Carthaginians established colonies on the Mediterranean coast and the offshore islands. The Roman Republic conquered southern Gaul and added it as the province of Gallia Narbonensis in the late 2nd century BC. Roman Legions under Julius Caesar conquered the rest of Gaul in the Gallic Wars of 58–51 BC. After that, a Gallo-Roman culture came out and Gaul was more and more integrated into the Roman Empire.

In the later stages of the Roman Empire, Gaul was subject to barbarian sudden attacks and migration, most importantly by the Germanic Franks. The Frankish king Clovis I united most of Gaul under his rule in the late 5th century, preparing the conditions for Frankish control in the region for hundreds of years. Frankish power reached its fullest extent under Charlemagne. The medieval Kingdom of France came out from the western part of Charlemagne's Carolingian Empire, known as West Francia, and achieved increasing importance under the rule of the House of Capet, founded by Hugh Capet in 987.

A succession crisis following the death of the last direct Capetian king in 1328 led to the series of conflicts known as the Hundred Years' War between the House of Valois and the House of Plantagenet. The war formally began in 1337 following Philip VI's attempt to grab and take control of the Duchy of Aquitaine from its holder, Edward III of England, the Plantagenet claimant to the French throne. Despite early Plantagenet victories, including the capture and ransom of John II of France, fortunes turned in favor of the Valois later in the war. Among the important figures of the war was Joan of Arc, a French peasant girl who led French forces against the English. The war ended with a Valois victory in 1453.

Victory in the Hundred Years' War had the effect of strengthening French nationalism and hugely increasing the power and reach of the French monarchy. During the Ancien Régime period over the next centuries, France changed into a centralized absolute monarchy through Renaissance and the Protestant Reformation. At the height of the French Wars of Religion, France became involved in another succession crisis, as the last Valois king, Henry III, fought against rival groups the House of Bourbon and the House of Guise. Henry, the Bourbon King of Navarre, won the conflict and established the Bourbon dynasty. A growing worldwide colonial empire was established in the 16th century. French political power reached a high point under the rule of Louis XIV, "The Sun King".

In the late 18th century the monarchy and connected institutions were brought down in the French Revolution. The country was ruled for a period as a Republic, until Napoleon Bonaparte's French Empire was declared. Following his defeat in the Napoleonic Wars, France went through several further government changes, being ruled as a monarchy, then briefly as a Second Republic, and then as a Second Empire, until a more lasting French Third Republic was established in 1870.

France was one of the Triple Entente powers in World War I against Germany and the Central Powers. France was one of the Allied Powers in World War II, but was conquered by Nazi Germany in 1940. The Third Republic was taken apart, and most of the country was controlled directly by Germany while the south was controlled until 1942 by the collaborationist Vichy government. Living conditions were harsh as Germany drained away food and manpower, and many Jews were killed. The Free France movement that took over the colonial empire, and coordinated the wartime Resistance. Following liberation in 1944, the Fourth Republic was established. France slowly recovered, and enjoyed a baby boom that reversed its very low fertility rate. Long wars in Indochina and Algeria drained French resources and ended in political defeat. At the  beginning of the  1958 Algerian Crisis, Charles de Gaulle set up the French Fifth Republic. Into the 1960s decolonization saw most of the French colonial empire become independent, while smaller parts were included into the French state as overseas departments and collectivities. Since World War II France has been a permanent member in the UN Security Council and NATO. It played a central role in the unification process after 1945 that led to the European Union. Despite slow economic growth in recent years, it remains a strong economic, cultural, military and political factor in the 21st century.

[[IPhone 13]]

CATEGORIES: IPhone, Mobile phones with multiple rear cameras, Mobile phones released in 2021, Mobile phones with 4K video recording

iPhone 13 is an 15th generation of iPhone, successor by iPhone 13 Pro, while released on September 24, 2021. iPhone 13 has announced at company of Apple Worldwide Developers Conference on September 14, 2021, next to generation of iPhone 13 Pro and iPhone 13 Pro Max. Tim Cook has introduced of iPhone 13 has an Apple A15 chip and more new features in iPhone 13, after announced. In September 17, 2021, iPhone 13 has opened for worldwide.

iPhone 13 has such like for iPhone 12 and IPhone 12 Pro, while is release on October 2020. iPhone 13 has launch iOS 15 with a news security network of business like iPhone 12. In September 7, 2021, The Wall Street Journal in a newspaper wrote of iPhone 13 is ready release of generation of news iPhone. Later, Apple announced iPhone 13 Pro and iPhone 13 Pro Max has such similar iPhone 13, they are released on September 24, 2021.

[[Jaye Davidson]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, English movie actors, American movie actors, English LGBT people, LGBT people from California, Gay men, Actors from Riverside County, California, People from Herefordshire, English models, Models from California

Jaye Davidson (born Alfred Amey; March 21, 1968) is an English-American model and retired actor. He made his acting debut as the transgender woman Dil in the thriller movie The Crying Game (1992), for which he received an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. Following his breakthrough, he portrayed a villainous alien impersonating the Egyptian god Ra in the commercially successful science fiction movie Stargate (1994). Davidson retired from acting afterwards, not liking the fame that the roles brought him.

[[Video game composer]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations, Video game design

A video game composer is a person who, as a profession, makes music for a video game or a series of games. Notable examples include Kōji Kondō, who created several songs for games made by Nintendo, and Austin Wintory, who made music for Journey. The job of a video game composer is to create music that suits the game well. Because of the increase of mobile games and indie games from recent years, there have been more jobs open for people to make music for video games.

Video game composers are important for a games feeling to the player. The music in a game can bring a feeling to the environment within the game.

[[Ima Keithel]]

CATEGORIES: Women's rights, Manipur

Ima Keithel (English: Mothers' Market), also known as Nupi Keithel (English: Women's Market), or Khwairamband Keithel (English: Khwairamband Market), is a market complex, located in the center of Imphal in Manipur state of India. It is the only market run entirely by women in the world. Here, men are not allowed to sell anything, except for buying. The Manipur Government has made the presence of male shopkeepers in the market a punishable crime.  

It has the size of providing around 5000-6000 shopkeepers. Here, women sell variety of products, starting from vegetables to clothes. These are mostly local made and local to the state. 

It was established in the 16th century AD, that is 500 years ago. It has three large building structures, named after the three goddesses of Meitei religion, Leimarel Sidabi, Emoinu and Phouoibi.

Ima Keithel is a classic example of the long lasting tradition of business management by women in Manipur. Traditionally, Meitei women always enjoyed high economic and social status. Women dominate the trade and commerce in food and vegetables, household goods and clothings throughout Manipuri society. It is the historic symbol of the empowerment of women and their leadership prospects in Manipur.

[[Imphal West]]

CATEGORIES: Manipur

Imphal West District (Nongchup Imphal Pana) is one of the sixteen districts of the Manipur state of India. According to the 2011 census, it came out to be the district with the highest population in Manipur.

[[Imphal East]]

CATEGORIES: Manipur

Imphal East District (Nongpok Imphal Pana) is one of the sixteen districts of Manipur state of India. According to 2011 census, it is the second most populated district in Manipur, after Imphal West.

[[Pithecopus gonzagai]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

Pithecopus gonzagai is a frog that lives in Brazil.

[[Sky Deutschland]]

Sky Deutschland GmbH, branded as Sky, is a German media company that operates a direct broadcast satellite Pay TV platform in Germany, Austria and Switzerland (through Sky Switzerland). It provides a collection of basic and premium digital subscription television channels of different categories via satellite and cable television. It was launched in 1991 as Premiere. The channel originally started as a single analogue channel on the Astra 1A satellite, showing films dubbed into German, as well as in original audio, live football matches from the German Bundesliga and Austrian Bundesliga (and at one time the UEFA Cup), and documentaries and TV series. After the coming of the digital age, the service has since consisted of many channels with many new ones added over the years. On 4 July 2009, the service and its channels were rebranded as "Sky". Sky Deutschland is a wholly owned subsidiary of Comcast-owned Sky. The programming service itself is provided by its subsidiary Sky Deutschland Fernsehen GmbH & Co. KG (formerly Premiere Fernsehen GmbH & Co. KG). It topped 3,000,000 subscribers by the end of 2011. As of Q2 2014, Sky Deutschland has more than 4 million subscribers.

[[Premiere (German television channel holding company)]]

Premiere was a German media company that operated a direct broadcast satellite Pay TV platform in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. It provided a collection of basic and premium digital subscription television channels of different categories via satellite and cable television. It was launched in 1991, but was closed in 2009 to make way for Sky’s German division (the “Premiere Series” channel was closed a year earlier, 2008, to make way for the German feed of Fox, which is scheduled to shut down on the 1st of October, 2021 after the acquisition by Disney in 2019.)

[[Kolkatar Harry]]

Kolkatar Harry is an upcoming Indian Bengali-language comedy children film directed by Rajdeep Ghosh and produced by Soham Chakraborty  under the banner of  Sohams Entertainment Pvt. Ltd. The film starring  Soham Chakraborty  and  Priyanka Sarkar. The film shot in Kolkata was wrapped up in December 2020 postponed due to covid.2021 Indian Bengali comedy-magic film

Kolkatar Harry is inspired from the English movie Harry Potter

[[SIX Swiss]]

CATEGORIES: Stock exchanges

SIX Swiss Exchange (formerly SWX Swiss Exchange), based in Zurich, is Switzerland's principal stock exchange (the other being Berne eXchange). SIX Swiss Exchange also trades other securities such as Swiss government bonds and derivatives such as stock options.

The main stock market index for the SIX Swiss Exchange is the blue-chip index, the SMI, or Swiss Market Index. The index consists of the 20 most significant and most liquid large and mid-cap SPI equity-securities based on the free float market capitalisation.

SIX Swiss Exchange was the first stock exchange in the world to incorporate a fully automated trading, clearing and settlement system in 1995. The exchange is controlled by an association of 55 banks. Each of these banks has equal voting rights in the matter of decision making concerning the management and regulation of the exchange.

SIX X-Clear Ltd provides clearing and acts as the central counterparty for clearing trades, securities settlement and custody services.

[[Fc Barcelona in 2008-09]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in sports

2011–12 →

The 2010–11 season was FC Barcelona's 111th season since the club was founded in 1899. Barcelona started the season with a new President, Sandro Rosell.

Many people consider this season to be one of the best in Barcelona's history.

[[Nat Geo/Fox HD]]

Nat Geo/Fox HD was a Latin American subscription television channel that broadcast exclusively in high definition. It was launched on December 1, 2008 in Latin America (DirecTV being the first platform to add it to its offer). It was owned by Fox Latin American Channels. Nat Geo/Fox HD was closed in June 2014 after it was split to National Geographic HD and Fox HD.

[[AUKUS]]

CATEGORIES: September 2021 events

September 2021

AUKUS, also known as Aukus (ˈ; is an acronym for the alliance between "Australia, United Kingdom, United States"), is a three-way security pact between Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The agreement was created in 2020 to share defense technologies between the three countries to answer the possible threat China poses.

It allows Australia to buy its first nuclear submarines, though the Australian government says that the boats will not be nuclear armed. These nuclear-powered submarines would be completed and ready for service in the mid to late 2030s. Experts say the nuclear subs can take longer trips than other submarines. They say the boats will give the alliance a stronger military presence in the region.

The alliance also is to share computing technologies and cyber defenses.

However, the agreement also led to a cancellation of a submarine deal between Australia and France. France was angry at the countries involved and recalled its ambassadors from Australia and the United States in response.

[[Jean-Claude van Itallie]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American playwrights, Belgian playwrights, Writers from Brussels, Writers from New York City, American political activists

Jean-Claude van Itallie (25 May 1936 – 9 September 2021) was a Belgian-born American playwright, performer, and theatre workshop teacher. He was best known protesting against the Vietnam War and for writing America Hurrah; The Serpent and his translations of Anton Chekhov's plays. He was born in Brussels, Belgium.

Van Itallie died in New York City on 9 September 2021 from pneumonia at the age of 85.

[[James Snyder Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, American lawyers, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from North Carolina, Writers from North Carolina, US Republican Party politicians

James Eugene "Jim" Snyder Jr. (June 30, 1945 – September 12, 2021) was an American lawyer, writer and politician. He was a member of the Republican Party. Snyder Jr. was a member of the North Carolina House of Representatives from 1969 until 1973. Snyder Jr. was born in Lexington, North Carolina.

Snyder Jr. ran for the United States Senate running against U.S. Senator Elizabeth Dole in the Republican primary. He lost the nomination to Dole. He ran twice for Lieutenant Governor of North Carolina, losing both times in 2004 and 2008.

Snyder Jr. died on September 12, 2021 at his home in Lexington at the age of 76.

[[Philippe Adrien]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, French theatre directors, French movie actors, French stage actors, French playwrights

Philippe Adrien (19 December 1939 – 15 September 2021) was a French stage director, actor and playwright. An actor, he was known for his role in the 1959 war movie Green Harvest. Adrien began to write plays in the late 1960s. In 1985, Adrien founded the L'Atelier de Recherche et de Réalisation Théâtrale.

Adrien died on 15 September 2021 at the age of 81.

[[Satoshi Hirayama]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Japanese baseball players, American baseball players, Sportspeople from California

Satoshi "Fibber" Hirayama was an American baseball player. He played for the Hiroshima Carp in Japan's Central League. Hirayama was an All-Star twice in Japan. He was born in Exeter, California, to Japanese parents. 

Hirayama died on September 15, 2021, in Fresno, California. He was 91.

[[Tex Clevenger]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Boston Red Sox players, Los Angeles Angels players, New York Yankees players, Washington Nationals players, Sportspeople from California

Truman Eugene "Tex" Clevenger (July 9, 1932 – August 24, 2019) was an American Major League Baseball relief pitcher and spot starter. He  played for the Boston Red Sox, Washington Senators, Los Angeles Angels and New York Yankees from 1954 to 1962. 

Clevenger was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in 2008. He died from the disease on August 24, 2019 in Porterville, California at the age of 87.

[[Porterville, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Tulare County, California

Porterville is a city in the San Joaquin Valley, in Tulare County, California, United States. 

[[Adnan Abu Walid al-Sahrawi]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2021 deaths, Islamic State people, Terrorists, Deaths by airstrike

Lehbib Ould Ali Ould Said Ould Yumani, known as Adnan Abu Walid al-Sahrawi (16 February 1973 – 17 August 2021), was a Sahrawi Islamic terrorist. He was the leader of the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara.

On 4 October 2019, the United States offered a $5 million reward for information on where he is.

Al-Sahrawi was killed by French Forces in the Sahel in a drone strike on 17 August 2021. French President Emmanuel Macron announced his death on 15 September.

[[Lou Angotti]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Chicago Blackhawks players, New York Rangers players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, St. Louis Blues players, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Sportspeople from Toronto

Louis Frederick Angotti (January 16, 1938 – September 15, 2021) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player and coach. He played for the Chicago Black Hawks, New York Rangers, Philadelphia Flyers, Pittsburgh Penguins and the St. Louis Blues between 1962 until 1975.

[[Boet van Dulmen]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, Road accident deaths, Dutch sportspeople

Boet van Dulmen (19 May 1948 – 16 September 2021) was a Dutch Grand Prix motorcycle road racer. He was part of a group of Dutch riders who competed at the highest levels of Grand Prix racing in the late 1970s. He won his only major race at the Finnish Grand Prix.

[[Dušan Ivković]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pulmonary edema, Serbian sportspeople, Basketball players, Olympic silver medalists

Dušan "Duda" Ivković (29 October 1943 – 16 September 2021) was a Serbian professional basketball player and coach. He was head coach of the senior Serbian national basketball team from 2008 to 2013. He was also the president of the Serbian club BKK Radnički. He was elected to the FIBA Hall of Fame in 2017. He was also named a EuroLeague Basketball Legend in 2017. He was born in Belgrade, German-occupied Serbia.

Ivković died on 16 September 2021 in Belgrade from herpes caused by pulmonary edema at the age of 77.

[[Hlengiwe Mkhize]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, South African politicians

Hlengiwe Buhle Mkhize MP (6 September 1952 – 16 September 2021) was a South African politician. She was a member of the National Assembly from 2009 until her death. She was Minister of Home Affairs in 2017 and Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology from 2017 until 2018.

Mkhize died on 16 September 2021 at the age of 69.

[[George Mraz]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Czech musicians, American jazz musicians, American saxophonists, Naturalized citizens of the United States

George Mraz (born Jiří Mráz; 9 September 1944 – 16 September 2021) was a Czech-born American jazz bassist and alto saxophonist. He was a member of Oscar Peterson's group. During the 1970s, he was a member of the New York Jazz Quartet and The Thad Jones/Mel Lewis Orchestra, and in the 1980s a member of Quest.

[[Casimir Oyé-Mba]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Prime Ministers of Gabon, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in France

Casimir Marie Ange Oyé-Mba (20 April 1942 – 16 September 2021) was a Gabonese politician. He was Governor of the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) from 1978 to 1990. 

Oyé-Mba was Prime Minister of Gabon from 3 May 1990 to 2 November 1994. He also was Minister of State for Foreign Affairs from 1994 to 1999, Minister of State for Planning from 1999 to 2007, and Minister of State for Mines and Oil from 2007 to 2009.

Oyé-Mba died on 16 September 2021 in Paris from COVID-19 at the age of 79.

[[Graciete Santana]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, 2021 deaths, Competitors in athletics, Brazilian Olympians, Deaths from melanoma

Graciete Moreira Carneiro Santana (12 October 1980 – 16 September 2021) was a Brazilian long distance runner. She placed 128th in the athletics marathon at the 2016 Summer Olympics. Santana began running to help her beat bulimia. Santana was born in Serra Preta, Brazil.

Santana died on 16 September 2021 from melanoma in Feira de Santana, Brazil at the age of 40.

[[Serra Preta]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Bahia

Serra Preta is a city in the eastern state of Bahia, Brazil. 14,699 people lived here in 2020.  Serra Preta is about 150 miles northwest from Bahia's capital, Salvador, and 600 miles north of Rio de Janeiro.

[[Clive Sinclair]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2021 deaths, English inventors, Businesspeople from London, Cancer deaths in London

Sir Clive Marles Sinclair (30 July 1940 – 16 September 2021) was an English businessman and inventor. He was known for his works on consumer electronics in the late 1970s and early 1980s. He was born in Richmond, Surrey, England. He invented many versions of pocket calculators including the first one in 1972. 

Some of his creations include Sinclair Radionics Black Watch wristwatch, the Sinclair Vehicles C5 battery electric vehicle, and the Sinclair Research TV80 flatscreen CRT handheld television set.

Sinclair died from cancer in London on 16 September 2021 at the age of 81.

[[Roger Brown (defensive tackle)]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Los Angeles Rams players, Detroit Lions players, Sportspeople from Virginia

Roger Lee Brown (May 1, 1937 – September 17, 2021) was an American professional football player. He was a defensive tackle in the National Football League (NFL). He played college football at Maryland State College before playing professionally for the Detroit Lions (1960–1966) and Los Angeles Rams (1967–1969).

Brown died on September 17, 2021 at the age of 84.

[[Thanu Padmanabhan]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, Indian scientists, Indian academics, People from Kerala, Indian writers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Physicists

Thanu Padmanabhan (10 March 1957 – 17 September 2021) was an Indian theoretical physicist and cosmologist. His works fouced on Gravitation, Structure formation in the universe and Quantum Gravity. He was a Distinguished Professor at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics. 

Padmanabhan died on 17 September 2021 at the age of 64 from a heart attack in Pune, India.

[[Alfonso Sastre]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, Playwrights, Essayists, Critics, Writers from Madrid

Alfonso Sastre (20 February 1926 – 17 September 2021) was a Spanish playwright, essayist, and critic. He was part of the Generation of '36 movement. He was a critic of censorship during the Francisco Franco dictatorship. His best known plays include Death Squad (1953), The Gag (1954), Death Thrust (1960), and Tragicomedy of the Gypsy Celestina (1984). He was born in Madrid.

Sastre died in Hondarribia, Spain on 17 September 2021, at the age of 95.

[[Hondarribia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Spain, Municipalities in the Basque Country

Hondarribia (Hondarribia; Fuenterrabía; Fontarrabie) is a town near Bidasoa river's mouth, in Gipuzkoa, in Basque Country, Spain.

[[Minja Subota]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Serbian musicians, Photographers, Television personalities, Composers

Milan "Minja" Subota (8 November 1938 – 17 September 2021) was a Serbian composer, musician, entertainer and photographer. He was born in Sarajevo. He was the host of the long-running children's TV show Muzički tobogan on RTS. He was honored with the Order of Karađorđe's Star in 2021.

[[Guadalupe Mountains National Park]]

Guadalupe Mountains National Park is the highest park of Texas.

[[Hazard (1948 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s comedy movies, 1940s drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by George Marshall

Hazard is a 1948 American comedy-drama movie directed by George Marshall and starring Paulette Goddard, Macdonald Carey, Fred Clark, Stanley Clements, Percy Helton, Maxie Rosenbloom, Frank Fenton, Frank Faylen, Walter Baldwin. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Tap Roots]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s western movies, American western movies, American war movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by George Marshall

Tap Roots is a 1948 American Civil War western movie directed by George Marshall and starring Van Heflin, Susan Hayward, Boris Karloff, Julie London, Whitfield Connor, Ward Bond, Richard Long, Russell Simpson. It was distributed by Universal Pictures and was based on the 1942 novel of the same name by James H. Street.

[[Kemal Kurspahić]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Bosnia and Herzegovina writers, Bosnia and Herzegovina politicians, Journalists

Kemal Kurspahić (1 December 1946 – 17 September 2021) was a Bosnian journalist and politician. He was Editor-in-Chief of the Bosnian daily Oslobođenje in Sarajevo between 1989 until 1994. He was born in Mrkonjić Grad, PR Bosnia-Herzegovina. From 2001 until 2006, Kurspahić worked for the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.

[[Carlos Gianelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, People from Montevideo, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Uruguayan politicians, Lawyers

Carlos Alberto Gianelli Derois (March 7, 1948 – September 17, 2021) was a Uruguayan lawyer and diplomat. He as the Uruguayan ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Mexico, the Netherlands, and the United States. He was born in Montevideo, Uruguay.

Gianelli died on September 17, 2021 in Washington, D.C. from a heart attack at the age of 73.

[[Daniel Quinn (disambiguation)]]

CATEGORIES: Disambiguation

Daniel Quinn may refer to:

[[Palauan language]]

CATEGORIES: Micronesian languages, Palau

Palauan (tekoi er a Belau) is a Micronesian language spoken in Palau. It is officially regulated by the Palau Language Commission.

[[Hidalgo, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Hidalgo is a city in Hidalgo County, Texas, United States.

[[Nauruan language]]

CATEGORIES: Micronesian languages, Nauru

Nauruan (Dorerin Naoero) is a Micronesian language spoken in Nauru. It (along with English) is an official language of Nauru.

[[La Joya, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

La Joya is a city in Hidalgo County, Texas, United States.

[[Mercedes, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Mercedes is a city in Hidalgo County, Texas, United States.

[[Palmhurst, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Palmhurst is a city in Hidalgo County, Texas, United States.

[[San Juan, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

San Juan is a city in Hidalgo County, Texas, United States.

[[Weslaco, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Weslaco is a city in Hidalgo County, Texas, United States.

[[W. Tayloe Murphy Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians

William Tayloe Murphy Jr. (January 9, 1933 – September 15, 2021) was an American Democratic politician. He was a member of the Virginia House of Delegates between 1982 and 2000. Murphy Jr. was Secretary of Natural Resources under Governor Mark Warner from 2002 until 2006. Murphy Jr. was born in Richmond County, Virginia.

Murphy Jr. died on September 15, 2021 at the age of 88.

[[Love for Sale (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 albums, Jazz albums, Lady Gaga albums

Love for Sale is the second collaboration album between singers Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga.  It is set to be released on October 1, 2021, through Columbia and Interscope Records.  It is also Bennett's final album before retirement.

The first single, "I Get a Kick Out of You", was released August 6, 2021, followed by the second single, "Love for Sale", on September 17, 2021.

[[Ricky Boy]]

Ricky Boy is a cartoon character and the mascot of Warner Bros. He was created by Bruno Bianchi and Andy Heyward at the Warner Bros. in 1970. An human kid who typically wears blue shorts, white shoes, and red and white shirt, Ricky is one of the world's most recognizable characters.

[[Philip Davis (Bahamian politician)]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Prime Ministers of the Bahamas, Current national leaders, 1951 births

Philip Edward "Brave" Davis QC MP (born 7 June 1951) is a Bahamian politician. In September 2021, he became Prime Minister of the Bahamas. He has been a Member of Parliament for Cat Island, Rum Cay & San Salvador since May 2002. He was Leader of the Opposition from May 2017 to September 2021.

[[Kennedy Township, Allegheny County, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in Pennsylvania

Kennedy Township is a township in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, United States. It is about 10 miles away from Pittsburgh. The population was 8,134 at the 2016 United States Census.

[[IPhone 13 Pro]]

CATEGORIES: iPhone, Mobile phones released in 2021, Mobile phones with multiple rear cameras, Mobile phones with 4K video recording

12 MP, f/2.8, 77mm (telephoto), PDAF, OIS, 3x optical zoom|

12 MP, f/1.8, 13mm, 120˚ (ultrawide), PDAF|

iPhone 13 Pro and iPhone 13 Pro Max are professional versions of iPhone 13, the 15th generation of iPhone. It was announced at a Apple Worldwide Developers Conference on September 14, 2021, together with the iPhone 13. Apple announced that the iPhone 13 Pro and iPhone 13 Pro Max will be released on September 24, 2021.

[[Companion]]

A companion is a person or animal that you spend lots of time with.

[[Fox (German TV channel)]]

CATEGORIES: Television channels

Fox is a German pay television channel dedicated to television drama series. It heavily features American and British drama series.

[[Torpedo Run]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 movies, 1950s war movies, American war movies, World War II movies, MGM movies, Movies directed by Joseph Pevney

Torpedo Run is a 1958 American World War II movie directed by Joseph Pevney and starring Glenn Ford, Diane Brewster, Ernest Borgnine, Philip Ober, Richard Carlyle, Dean Jones, Robert Hardy, L. Q. Jones. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1959.

[[Fox (British & Irish TV channel)]]

Fox (stylised as FOX) was a British pay television channel serving the United Kingdom and Ireland, owned by Fox Networks Group, a unit of Disney International Operations. It launched on 12 January 2004 as FX289, then changed its name to FX in April 2005 (similar to the American FX), and rebranded to FOX in January 2013. Featuring a mix of comedies and drama series, the channel's programming targeted adults from 18 to 35 years old. It was announced on 17 May 2021 that Fox would cease operations in the UK and Ireland on 1 July 2021. Its content was moved to Star on Disney+. The channel ceased operations as planned on that day.

[[ABC Studios]]

CATEGORIES: Disambiguation

ABC Studios may refer to:

[[Wataru Takeshita]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from esophageal cancer, Japanese politicians

Wataru Takeshita was a Japanese politician. He was a member of the House of Representatives in the Diet from 2000 until his death. He was a member of the Liberal Democratic Party. Takeshita was born in Kakeya, Japan.

Takeshita was diagnosed with esophageal cancer in 2019. He died on 17 September 2021 in Tokyo from the disease at the age of 74.

[[Digoin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Saône-et-Loire

Digoin is a commune. It is in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in the Saône-et-Loire department in east France.

[[ITV News]]

CATEGORIES: British television series

ITV News is the branding of news programmes on the British television network ITV. Independent Television News (ITN) was founded in 1955. The channel's news coverage has won awards from the Royal Television Society, Emmy Awards and BAFTAs. Between 2004 and 2008, the ITV Evening News held the title of "RTS News Programme of the Year".

[[Uvac]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Serbia, Rivers of Bosnia and Herzegovina

The Uvac is a river which rises in Serbia. It flows through Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. Its is about 119 long. Near the locality of Uvac, the river flows into the Lim. For some of its length, the river is the border between both countries.

[[Americana, São Paulo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in São Paulo (state)

Americana is an Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. 242,018 people lived here in 2020 and its area is 133.91 km².

[[Garda, Veneto]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Veneto

Garda is a comune in the Province of Verona in the Veneto region in Italy. It is on the shore of Lake Garda.

[[Romani flag]]

CATEGORIES: Flags

The Romani flag is dark blue on top (representing the heavens) and green below (representing the earth) with the red sixteen-spoked chakra in the center (in recognition of the Indian origin of the Roma), representing movement and the burst of fire from which all creation emerged at the beginning of time. This flag was approved at the First World Romani Congress in 1971 at London, England. 

[[Legnago]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Veneto

Legnago is an Italian city in Veneto. About 25,000 people lived there and is on the Adige river.

[[Termoli]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Molise

Termoli is an Italian city in Molise. It is on the south Adriatic coast. About 32,000 people lived there.

[[Orenburg]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Russia

Orenburg (Оренбург) is a city in Russia. It is the capital of Orenburg Oblast. As of 2010, the city has 548,331 people.

[[Colfax, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state), County seats in Washington

Colfax is the county seat of Whitman County, Washington, United States.

The population was 2,805 at the 2010 census.

[[Colfax, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Placer County, California

Colfax (formerly, Alden Grove, Alder Grove, Illinoistown, and Upper Corral) is a city in Placer County, California. The population was 1,963 at the 2010 census.

[[Roost-Warendin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Roost-Warendin is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Łuków]]

CATEGORIES: Łuków, Cities in Poland

Łuków (ˈwukuf) is a city in eastern Poland, in the north part of Lublin Voivodeship. It has 29,441 inhabitants (31 December 2020).

[[Desenzano del Garda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Lombardy

Desenzano del Garda is a comune in the Province of Brescia in the Lombardy region in Italy. It is on the Lake Garda.

[[Sirmione]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Lombardy

Sirmione is a comune in the Province of Brescia in the Lombardy region in Italy. It has a historical centre which is located on a small peninsula that separates the lower part of Lake Garda.

[[Centro Municipality, Tabasco]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Mexico, Tabasco (state)

Centro is one of the 17 municipalities in the Mexican state of Tabasco. Its municipal seat is in the city of Villahermosa.

[[The Neon Demon]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 horror movies, 2010s LGBT movies, American horror movies, American LGBT movies, Belgian movies, French horror movies, Danish movies, Movies directed by Nicolas Winding Refn

The Neon Demon is a 2016 American Belgian French Danish psychological horror movie directed by Nicolas Winding Refn and starring Elle Fanning, Karl Glusman, Jena Malone, Desmond Harrington, Christina Hendricks, Keanu Reeves, Bella Heathcote. It was distributed by Amazon Studios.

[[Gonfaron]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Gonfaron is a commune of 4,324 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Grimaud]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Grimaud is a commune of 4,553 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Le Lavandou]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Le Lavandou is a commune of 5,981 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[La Londe-les-Maures]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

La Londe-les-Maures is a commune of 10,389 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Lorgues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Lorgues is a commune of 9,001 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Le Luc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Le Luc is a commune of 11,008 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[List of awards and nominations received by Billie Eilish]]

This is a list of awards and nominations received by American singer-songwriter Billie Eilish.

[[La Martre, Var]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

La Martre is a commune of 212 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Les Mayons]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Les Mayons is a commune of 638 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Mazaugues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Mazaugues is a commune of 878 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Méounes-lès-Montrieux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Méounes-lès-Montrieux is a commune of 2,202 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Cortland, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New York, County seats in New York

Cortland is a city in and the county seat of Cortland County, New York, United States. As of the 2010 census, 19,204 people live in Cortland.

[[Mario Camus]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2021 deaths, Spanish movie directors, Spanish screenwriters

Mario Camus García (20 April 1935 – 18 September 2021) was a Spanish movie director and screenwriter. He won the  Golden Bear for his movie La colmena. His other best works were The House of Bernarda Alba (1987) and Shadows in a Conflict (1993).

Camus died on 18 September 2021 in Santander, Spain at the age of 86.

[[Sheboygan River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Wisconsin

The Sheboygan River is a river flowing to Lake Michigan in eastern Wisconsin in the United States.  It is about 81 long. It enters the lake at the city of Sheboygan. The name of the river is Chippewa meaning 'hollow bone', 'noise underground' or 'river disappearing underground'.

[[They Were Expendable]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s war movies, American war movies, World War II movies, Movies based on books, MGM movies, Movies directed by John Ford

They Were Expendable is a 1945 American World War II movie directed by John Ford and was based on the 1942 novel of the same name by William Lindsay White. It stars Robert Montgomery, John Wayne, Donna Reed, Jack Holt, Ward Bond, Marshall Thompson, Paul Langton, Leon Ames, Donald Curtis, Jeff York and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1946.

[[Marja']]

CATEGORIES: Religious leaders

Marji' (مرجع, transliteration: marjiʿ; plural: marājiʿ), also known as a marji' taqlīd (مرجع تقليد) or marji' dīnī (مرجع ديني), is a title given to the highest level of Twelver Shia authority. The Grand Ayatollah has power given by a hawzah to make legal decisions within Islamic law for followers and clerics.

[[Ali al-Sistani]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Iranian writers, Iraqi people, Religious leaders, Academics

Grand Ayatollah Sayyid Ali al-Husayni al-Sistani (علي الحسيني السيستاني; على حسينى سيستانى, born 4 August 1930), commonly known as Ayatollah Sistani, is an Iranian-born Iraqi Shia Marja'. He was born in Mashhad, Iran.

He is seen as the leading spiritual leader of Iraqi Shia Muslims, and one of the most senior scholars in Shia Islam. 

In 2005 and 2014, he was also nominated for Nobel Prize Award.

[[Banda Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Seas of the Pacific Ocean

The Banda Sea is part of the Pacific Ocean.  It lies between Sulawesi, East Timor and New Guinea.  Sulawesi, and part of New Guinea are part of Indonesia today. East Timor is an independent country. The Banda Sea extends about 1200 east-west, and about 600 from north to south. It contains the Banda Arc, with the Lesser Sunda Islands and the Maluku Islands. Islands such as Sulawesi are part of the Greater Sunda Islands. In its center, the Banda Sea has a depth of 5800. Its lowest point is at the Weber deep, at 7440.

[[Pithecopus hypochondrialis]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The orange-legged leaf frog (Pithecopus hypochondrialis) is a frog that lives in Colombia, Venezuela, Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, and the Guianas.

[[Prostitution in Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: Afghan society and culture, Pages with unreviewed translations, Crime in Afghanistan

Prostitution in Afghanistan is illegal.  Prostitution is when someone does a sex act in exchange for money or other payment.  Punishments range from five to fifteen years in prison. The country is deeply religious. It is one of the most conservative countries in the world. Sex outside marriage is against the law and can be punished with death.

Because most people in Afghanistan are poor, or they have been displaced, more and more have  become prostitutes.  APMG Health estimated there were12,500 prostitutes in the country in 2015. In 2020 UNAIDS estimated there were 11,000 prostitutes in Kabul, Herat, Mazar and Jalalabad based on a 2019 survey. Before the foreign troops left the country, many of the brothels and prostitutes were located close to US bases.

A number of women from China, Iran, Pakistan, the Philippines, Sri Lanka and Tajikistan have been trafficked into Afghanistan, to become prostitutes. Afghan women are also trafficked to other countries for sexual exploitation. Child prostitution in the form of Bacha Bazi is also a problem in the country.

The Taliban, who have again come to power in 2021, have values that are deeply rooted in Islamic ethics. They have punished unmarried people with up to 80 lashes. Married prostitutes are considered adulterers, under Afghan law.  

Even before the Talian took control of the country, Islamic fundamentalists have killed people for having sex outside marriage, without waiting for a state trial. Prostitution is seen as very bad. To keep the family in good standing, prostitutes sometimes get killed by members of their own family.

[[Matrix (geology)]]

CATEGORIES: Geology

The matrix or groundmass of a rock is the finer-grained mass of material in which larger grains, crystals, or clasts are embedded.

The matrix of an igneous rock is made up of fine-grained, often tiny, crystals in which larger crystals, called phenocrysts, are embedded. In South Africa, diamonds are often mined from a matrix of weathered clay-like rock (kimberlite) called "yellow ground".

The matrix of sedimentary rocks is made up of finer-grained sedimentary material, such as clay or silt, in which larger grains or clasts are embedded.

[[Toyota Matrix]]

The Toyota Matrix, officially referred to as the Toyota Corolla Matrix, is a compact hatchback made by Toyota Motor Manufacturing Canada in Cambridge, Ontario. It was gotten from the Corolla. It was introduced in 2002 as a 2003 model. Toyota and General Motors worked together to make the Matrix.

[[Acamptonectes]]

Acamptonectes is a genus of ophthalmosaurid ichthyosaurs, a type of dolphin-like marine reptiles. 

They lived during the Early Cretaceous around 130 million years ago.

The discovery of Acamptonectes had significant implications for the evolutionary history of ichthyosaurs.

[[Electronic game]]

An electronic game is either a game console that can connect to a TV to play a video game or a game that be played in someone's hand. Electronic games are often bought by younger people including kids, teenagers and people who have special needs as people with special needs particular autism like games with repetitive sound. 

Electronic games were most common being sold in the 1990's when it was the best time in the world to make them, manufacturer and sell them. 

In the 1980's, a game called Simon was released by Milton Bradley which also had a 'Super' variant called the Super Simon. 

In the 90's there were 2 major games being sold - Bop It and Brain Warp, as well as a second edition of Bop It called the Bop It Extreme which was released in 1999 by Hasbro voiced by Scott Parkin. There was a game called Brain Shift that wasn't popular, but a rare low pitched unit was discovered in 2003 which lasted until 2009. Bop It was re-released again in 2008 as Bop It! and Simon was also re-released 3 years later by Hasbro and then KID Group made Simon Swipe. 

Electronic games require batteries to run and the manufacture adds a hidden 'test mode' on which the user can use to capture samples to make another game. Although the samples themselves won't be as good as the original studio quality samples, they can be good quality enough to be re-used in another game.

[[Surah Al-Hijr]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran

Surah Al-Hijr (The Stoneland), is the fifteenth surah of the Qur'an, the religious book of Muslims. This Surah was revealed in Makkah and has 99 verses.

[[Reduced affect display]]

CATEGORIES: Mood disorders

Reduced affect displays (better known as emotional blunting) is the condition where a person has a reduced emotional reaction. People with this condition have problems expressing their feelings. They are unble to do this while they talk about certain problems which normally cause people to express emotions. Expressive gestures aren't common. There is also little or no animation in the facial expressions or the changes for certain people's voices. Reduced affect is often the symptom of autism, depression, schizoid personality disorder, schizophrenia or even post-traumatic stress disorder. It is also often the side effect of certain drugs (these tend to include antipsychotic or antidepressant drugs).

Reduced affect is different from apathy and anhedonia (these others mean not having enough or any emotion). Reduced affect means not enough or any expressions of emotion (affect displays), without mattering whether or not emotions are actually reduced.

[[Martin Hemings]]

CATEGORIES: 1755 births, People from Virginia, African-American people, Slaves

[[Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3]]

Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3 is a crossover fighting game developed by Capcom in collaboration with Eighting. It is an updated version of Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Kirby's Return to Dream Land. The game features characters from both Capcom's video game franchises and comic book series published by Marvel Comics. The game was released in November 2011 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, and was featured as a launch title for the PlayStation Vita in 2012. The game was later ported to PlayStation 4 in December 2016, and Xbox One and Microsoft Windows in March 2017.

[[Wildlife conservation]]

CATEGORIES: Environmental issues

Wildlife conservation refers to the practice of protecting wild species and their habitats in order to maintain healthy wildlife species or populations and to restore, protect or enhance natural ecosystems. Major threats to wildlife include habitat destruction, degradation, fragmentation, overexploitation, poaching, pollution and climate change. The IUCN estimates that 27,000 species of the ones assessed are at risk for extinction. Expanding to all existing species, a 2019 UN report on biodiversity put this estimate even higher at a million species. It is also being acknowledged that an increasing number of ecosystems on Earth containing endangered species are disappearing. To address these issues, there have been both national and international governmental efforts to preserve Earth's wildlife.

[[Hungarian food]]

CATEGORIES: Foods by nationality

Hungarian food or Hungarian cuisine is the cuisine of Hungary.

[[Yak (disambiguation)]]

CATEGORIES: Disambiguation

A yak is a long-haired species of cattle. There are two types of yak:

Yak may also refer to:

[[Spanish food]]

CATEGORIES: Foods by nationality, Spanish food

Spanish food or Spanish cuisine is the cuisine of Spain.

[[Saturday Night Speedway]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, Atari video games, PlayStation 2 games, Racing video games, Windows games

Saturday Night Speedway is a racing simulator video game developed by Ratbag Games and published by Atari Inc.. The gameplay is similiar to the Need for Speed franchises, where players can drift anywhwere, and sometimes, players can complete all 13 events in Championship Mode. Saturday Night Speedway also features Career Mode, where players can upgraded cars, repair cars, sponsorship earnings, race earnings and much more.

[[A Matter of Life and Death (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s fantasy movies, British war movies, British romance movies, British fantasy movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Michael Powell, Movies directed by Emeric Pressburger

A Matter of Life and Death is a 1946 British World War II romantic fantasy movie directed by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger and starring David Niven, Roger Livesey, Raymond Massey, Kim Hunter, Kathleen Byron, Marius Goring, Joan Maude, Richard Attenborough, Bonar Colleano.

[[List of Meitei scholars]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei scholars

This includes the list of scholars of Meitei Manipuri speaking ethnicities of Manipur, Assam and Tripura of India, Bangladesh as well as Myanmar.

[[Cover Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Charles Vidor

Cover Girl is a 1944 American romantic musical comedy movie directed by Charles Vidor and starring Rita Hayworth, Gene Kelly, Lee Bowman, Phil Silvers, Leslie Brooks, Eve Arden, Otto Kruger, Anita Colby, Jess Barker. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures and was nominated for 5 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1945.

[[School for Secrets]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s drama movies, British war movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by Peter Ustinov

School for Secrets is a 1946 British drama movie directed by first time director Peter Ustinov and starring David Tomlinson, Ralph Richardson, John Laurie, Ernest Jay, Finlay Currie, Richard Attenborough, David Hutcheson, Bill Owen, Marjorie Rhodes.

[[Juz']]

CATEGORIES: Components of the Quran

juzʼ (Arabic: جُزْءْ, plural: أَجْزَاءْ ajzāʼ, literally meaning "part") is called each of the thirty volumes of the Qur'an. These thirty pieces are known as thirty paras. In Arabic it is called Juz. The word para is common among Muslims in South Asia. The meaning does not differ from these parts of the Qur'an. Each para consists of an equal number of parts. Basically, these paras have been formed for the convenience of recitation.

[[White Mexicans]]

White Mexicans (Spanish: Mexicanos blancos) are Mexicans who are considered White people, typically due to being of European or other Western Eurasian descent. Many are of Spanish ancestry due to colonization.

[[Ruku]]

CATEGORIES: Salah, Arabic words and phrases

Ruku (Arabic: رُكوع) is an Arabic word that means two things in Islamic terminology:

[[Surah An-Nahl]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran

Surah Al-Nahl, (Arabic: سورة النحل) (The Bee), is the sixteenth surah of the Qur'an, the religious book of Muslims. This Surah was revealed in Makkah and has 128 verses.

[[Surah Al-Isra]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran

Surah Al-Isra (الإسراء, ar; meaning: The Night Journey) is the 17th chapter (sūrah) of the Quran, with 111 verses (āyāt).

[[Greg S. Reid]]

Greg S. Reid is an author, film producer and founder of secret knock.

[[Surah Al-Kahf]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran

Al-Kahf (Arabic: سورة الكهف) is the 16th surah of the Qur'an, the religious book of Muslims. It has 110 verses and 12 ruku's. Surah Al-Kahf has been revealed in Makkah . In this Surah, three questions of the Quraysh have been answered. In this Surah the story of Prophet Moses and Prophet Khizr has also been narrated.

[[Surah Maryam]]

CATEGORIES: Chapters in the Quran

Surah Maryam (Arabic: سورة مريم) Surah 19 of the Quran, the religious book of Muslims; Its verse i.e. sentence number is 97 and ruku i.e. paragraph number is 8. Surah Maryam has been revealed in Makkah. This surah speaks first of the prayers of Zechariah , then of the Blessed Virgin Mary and the son of Jesus.

[[The Heavenly Kid]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 comedy movies, 1985 romance movies, 1980s fantasy movies, 1980s romantic comedy movies, 1980s teen comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American fantasy movies

The Heavenly Kid is a 1985 American romantic fantasy comedy movie directed by Cary Medoway and starring Lewis Smith, Jason Gedrick, Jane Kaczmarek, Richard Mulligan, Mark Metcalf, Nancy Valen. It was distributed by Orion Pictures.

[[Superstore (season 6)]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 television seasons, COVID-19 pandemic in the United States

The sixth season of Superstore was the final season. Superstore is a show about people working in a big-box store named Cloud 9. The show's first episode was released on 29 October 2020 on NBC.

The series started being made in September 2020. This was during the COVID-19 pandemic. The show decided to have the episodes set during the pandemic. In December 2020, they said the season was the last one for the show.

The season had the 100th episode of the show. The show ended on 25 March 2021. "All Sales Final" was the final episode of the series. The final episode was an hour long.

[[Pithecopus araguaius]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

Pithecopus araguaius is a frog that lives in Mato Grasso, Brazil.

[[Zelenograd]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Russia, Moscow

Zelenograd (Зеленоград) is a city in Moscow (federal city) in Russia. The city has 221,712 people as of 2010. Zelenograd means "green city" in Russian.

[[Newsletter]]

A Newsletter is printed or electronic news about what a business or organisation does. It is sent to members (of the business or organisation), customers, employees or subscribers.

[[Birmal Hembram( Kunar)]]

CATEGORIES: 17th Lok Sabha members, Lok Sabha members from West Bengal, Living people, Bharatiya Janata Party politicians from West Bengal, People from Jhargram district

Birmal  Hembram ( Kunar ) , is an Engineer turned Indian parliamentarian. He is Nick name is Birmal Hembram . He is working political . He was elected to the Lok Sabha (the lower house of the Parliament of India) from Jhargram, West Bengal in the 2019 Indian general election as a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party.

[[Zhang Wentian]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1976 deaths, Chinese communist politicians

Zhang Wentian (30 August 1900 – 1 July 1976), also known as Luo Fu, was a high-ranking leader of the Communist Party of China.

[[Enrico Maccioni]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Italian painters

Enrico Maccioni (born 9 January 1940 in Florence), Italian painter of contemporary art.

[[Feminist pornography]]

CATEGORIES: Movie genres, Feminism

People who were active in the sex-positive feminism movement developed feminist pornography. Like normal pornography, the aim is to show sexually explicit images, or describe situations which help to sexually arouse women. Most pornography is made for men; it often uses stereotypes. Feminist pornography wants to break out of these stereotyped gender roles.  

[[Fernando Mario Chávez Ruvalcaba]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Roman Catholic bishops, People from Zacatecas

Fernando Mario Chávez Ruvalcaba (30 November 1932 – 15 September 2021) was a Mexican Roman Catholic prelate. He was Bishop of Zacatecas from 1999 to 2008. He was born in Zacatecas City, Mexico.

Chávez Ruvalcaba died in Zacatecas City on 15 September 2021 from COVID-19 at the age of 88.

[[John Ruggie]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, American academics, American political scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Graz

John Gerard Ruggie (18 October 1944 – 16 September 2021) was an American political scientist. He was the Berthold Beitz Research Professor in Human Rights and International Affairs at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. He was an Affiliated Professor in International Legal Studies at Harvard Law School. From 1997 to 2001, Ruggie was the United Nations Assistant Secretary-General for Strategic Planning.

Ruggie died on 16 September 2021 at the age of 76.

[[Shut Up and Dance]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s television episodes, British television episodes

"Shut Up and Dance" is an episode of the television show Black Mirror. It is the third episode of the third series. The episode was first put on Netflix on 21 October 2016. The episode is about a teenage boy who has been caught masturbating by a hacker. The hacker blackmails the boy to go to places and commit crimes. The boy must later work with a man who is also being blackmailed. The episode was written by Charlie Brooker (creator of Black Mirror) and William Bridges. The boy is played by Alex Lawther and the man he works with is played by Jerome Flynn. The story of the episode has been said by critics to be similar to another episode, "White Bear".

[[Ronald Paris]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, German painters

Ronald Paris (12 August 1933 – 17 September 2021) was a German painter and graphic artist. Between 1993 and 1999, Paris was a professor at the "Burg Giebichenstein" Arts Acadademy in Halle. 

Paris died on 17 September 2021 at the age of 88.

[[Michał Turkiewicz]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2021 deaths, Polish politicians, Polish academics

Michał Turkiewicz (25 November 1956 – 17 September 2021) was a Polish politician and teacher. He was born in Sulików, Poland. He was a member of the Polish United Workers' Party. He was a member of the Sejm from 2001 until 2005.

Turkiewicz died on 17 September 2021 at the age of 64.

[[Julos Beaucarne]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Belgian singers, Belgian movie actors, Belgian poets, Belgian artists, Songwriters

Julos Beaucarne, (27 June 1936 – 18 September 2021) was a Belgian poet, actor, singer-songwriter and artist. He performed in Walloon. He was known for playing father Jacques in The Mystery of the Yellow Room. Beaucarne's first single was recorded in 1964. 

Beaucarne died on 18 September 2021 at the age of 85.

[[Jolidee Matongo]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2021 deaths, South African politicians, Mayors, People from Johannesburg, Road accident deaths

Jolidee Matongo (1975 – 18 September 2021) was a South African politician. He was the Mayor of Johannesburg from 10 August 2021 until his death on 18 September 2021. He was the member of the mayoral committee (MMC) for finance. Matongo was a member of the African National Congress. He was born in Soweto, South Africa.

Matongo died on 18 September 2021 in a car crash in Soweto.

[[Chris Anker Sørensen]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2021 deaths, Road accident deaths, Danish sportspeople, Cyclists, Belgian Olympians

Chris Anker Sørensen (ˈkʰʁis ˈɑŋkɐ ˈsɶɐ̯ˀn̩sn̩; 5 September 1984 – 18 September 2021) was a Danish professional road bicycle racer. He rode professionally between 2005 and 2018. Sørensen then worked as a directeur sportif (and co-owner) for his final professional team. He was born in Hammel, Denmark. He raced at the 2008 Summer Olympics and at the 2012 Tour de France.

Sørensen was killed after being hit by a car on 18 September 2021 in Zeebrugge, Belgium at the age of 37.

[[Butterfly knife]]

CATEGORIES: Blades

A butterfly knife (or Balisong) is a type of pocket knife that originally came from the Philippines. It has two handles that rotate. When it is closed, the blades of the knife are completely hidden. Because it has often been used for crimes, many countries have made butterfly knifes illegal. 

[[James Bilbray]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, United States representatives from Nevada, American lawyers, Businesspeople from Las Vegas, Nevada, Politicians from Las Vegas, Nevada, US Democratic Party politicians

James Hubert Bilbray (May 19, 1938 – September 19, 2021) was an American politician, lawyer and businessman. He was the U.S. Representative for Nevada's 1st congressional district from 1987 to 1995. He was a member of the Democratic Party. Between 2014 and 2016, he was the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the USPS.

Bilbray was born in Las Vegas, Nevada. He studied at the American University. He was a member of the Nevada Senate between 1981 until 1987. Bilbray died on September 19, 2021 in Las Vegas at the age of 83.

[[Sylvano Bussotti]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Italian composers, Italian LGBT people, Gay men, LGBT composers, People from Florence

Sylvano Bussotti (1 October 1931 – 19 September 2021) was an Italian composer. His works were contemporary classical music. He was born in Florence, Italy. He was the artistic director of La Fenice, Venice. He was openly gay.

Bussotti died on 19 September 2021 at the age of 89.

[[Dinky Soliman]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Deaths from heart failure, Filipino politicians, Activists

Corazon Victoria "Dinky" Nerves Juliano-Soliman (January 27, 1953 – September 19, 2021) was a Filipina politician, activist and social worker. He was Secretary of Social Welfare and Development two times during the Gloria Macapagal Arroyo presidency from 2001 to 2005 and Benigno Aquino III presidency from 2010 to 2016. Soliman was born in San Miguel, Tarlac City, Philippines.

Soliman died of problems caused by heart failure and kidney failure on September 19, 2021 in Quezon City, Philippines at the age of 68.

[[Maria Leopoldina of Austria]]

She was born Caroline Josepha Leopoldine Franziska Ferdinanda of Habsburg-Lorraine, Archduchess of Austria in Vienna, Austria, the daughter of Holy Roman Emperor Francis II, and his second wife, Maria Theresa of Naples and Sicily. Among her many siblings were Emperor Ferdinand I of Austria and Marie Louise, Duchess of Parma, the wife of Napoleon Bonaparte.

The education Maria Leopoldina had received in childhood and adolescence was eclectic and broad, with a higher cultural level and more consistent political training. Such education of the little princes and princesses of the Habsburg family was based on the educational belief initiated by their grandfather Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II, who believed "that children should be inspired from an early age to have high qualities, such as humanity, compassion and the desire to make people happy". With a deep Christian faith and a solid scientific and cultural background (which included international politics and notions of government) the Archduchess had been prepared from an early age to being a proper royal consort.

In the 21st century, it has been proposed by some historians that she was one of the main articulators of the process of Independence of Brazil that took place in 1822. Her biographer, historian Paulo Rezzutti, maintains that it was largely thanks to her that Brazil became a nation. According to him, the wife of Dom Pedro "embraced Brazil as her country, Brazilians as her people and Independence as her cause". She was also adviser to Dom Pedro on important political decisions that reflected the future of the nation, such as the Dia do Fico and the subsequent opposition and disobedience to the Portuguese courts regarding the couple's return to Portugal. Consequently, for governing the country on Dom Pedro's trips through the Brazilian provinces, she is considered the first woman to become head of state in an independent American country.

[[Assignment in Brittany]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 movies, 1940s war movies, American war movies, Movies based on books, MGM movies, Movies directed by Jack Conway

Assignment in Brittany is a 1943 American World War II movie directed by Jack Conway and was based on the 1942 novel of the same name by Helen MacInnes. It stars Jean-Pierre Aumont, Susan Peters, Margaret Wycherly, Signe Hasso, Richard Whorf, Darryl Hickman, Sarah Padden, Reginald Owen and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Stop/gallery]]

CATEGORIES: Stop signs, Symbols of transport

[[Center of percussion]]

The center of percussion is the sweet spot in a sword or object that is swung, the centre of percussion is where the resonnace in the object is nullified by the object.

[[Wee Willie Winkie]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 movies, 1930s adventure movies, 1930s drama movies, American adventure movies, American drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies based on short stories, Movies directed by John Ford

Wee Willie Winkie is a 1937 American adventure drama movie directed by John Ford and was based on the story by Rudyard Kipling. It stars Shirley Temple, Victor McLaglen, C. Aubrey Smith, Cesar Romero, June Lang, Brandon Hurst, Lionel Pape, Cyril McLaglen and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1938.

[[Phil Kluba]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian male singer-songwriters, Canadian singer-songwriters, Musicians from Toronto

Use dmy dates

Phil Kluba is a Canadian recording artist and video producer based in Greater Toronto Area. Kluba is better known for producing music videos and live streams for Canadian singer Scott Helman,​ Justin Nozuka and​ alt-rock band MONOWHALES​ under the banner of his media production company​ ​Press It.

[[When Willie Comes Marching Home]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 comedy movies, 1950s war movies, American comedy movies, American war movies, World War II movies, Movies based on short stories, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by John Ford

When Willie Comes Marching Home is a 1950 American World War II comedy movie directed by John Ford and was based on the 1945 short story When Leo Comes Marching Home by Sy Gomberg. It stars Dan Dailey, Corinne Calvet, Colleen Townsend, William Demarest, Jimmy Lydon, Lloyd Corrigan and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1951.

[[Two Sisters from Boston]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s comedy movies, American musical comedy movies, MGM movies, Movies directed by Henry Koster

Two Sisters from Boston is a 1946 American musical comedy movie directed by Henry Koster and starring Kathryn Grayson, June Allyson, Peter Lawford, Jimmy Durante, Lauritz Melchior, Nella Walker. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[The Jakarta Post]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers

The Jakarta Post is a widely circulated English language daily newspaper in Indonesia. The publication is owned by PT Niskala Media Tenggara and is based in Jakarta.

It started publishing since 25 April 1983.

[[Liam Walsh (rugby league)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, 2021 deaths, Rugby league players

Liam Walsh (12 September 1998 – 19 September 2021) was a professional rugby league footballer who played as a second-row forward for the Widnes Vikings in the Betfred Championship.

In 2017 he made his Super League début for Widnes against the Leeds Rhinos.

[[The Vanquished]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Edward Ludwig

The Vanquished is 1953 American western movie directed by Edward Ludwig and starring John Payne, Jan Sterling, Coleen Gray, Lyle Bettger, Willard Parker, Strother Martin, Ellen Corby, Ernestine Barrier. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Maksim Konstantinov]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1990 births, Business people

Maksim Konstantinov (born 18 August 1990) is a fintech executive and businessman. He is known as the founder and CEO of the fintech program, FxBro.

[[Verdis]]

CATEGORIES: Territorial disputes, 2019 establishments in Europe, micronations, Croatia, Serbia

Verdis, officially called the Free Republic of Verdis, is an unrecognised micronation that started on an unclaimed piece of land on the western part of the Danube River between Croatia and Serbia, near Liberland. Verdis was founded on 30 May 2019 by Australian activist Daniel Jackson.

The official Verdis website says the nation was created on no-man's land (terra nullius) known as pocket 3 that emerged because Croatia and Serbia have not agreed on common borders for over 25 years. This border dispute includes some areas to the east of the Danube which are claimed by both Serbia and Croatia. Croatia considers some areas on the west side of the river, including Verdis, to be part of Serbia, although Serbia doesn't claim that land, instead claiming the center-line of the Danube.

The land is under de facto control by Croatia since the Croatian War of Independence. Unlike Liberland, the land claim for Verdis has been unblocked by authorities, allowing easy entry to the claim.

No country that is a member of the United Nations has given recognition to Verdis, although Verdis has received recognition from an amount of political parties and politicians.

[[Accidents Will Happen (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 movies, 1930s drama movies, American drama movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by William Clemens

Accidents Will Happen is a 1938 American drama movie directed by William Clemens and starring Ronald Reagan, Gloria Blondell, Dick Purcell, Sheila Bromley, Addison Richards, Hugh O'Connell, Elliott Sullivan, Anderson Lawler. It was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Birth of Christianity]]

CATEGORIES: Christianity

The history of Christianity concerns the Christian religion, Christian countries, and the Christians with their various denominations, from the 1st century to the present.

Christianity originated with the ministry of Jesus, a Jewish teacher and healer who proclaimed the imminent kingdom of God and was crucified c. AD 30–33 in Jerusalem in the Roman province of Judea. His followers believe that, according to the Gospels, he was the Son of God and that he died for the forgiveness of sins and was raised from the dead and exalted by God, and will return soon at the inception of God's kingdom.

The earliest followers of Jesus were apocalyptic Jewish Christians. The inclusion of gentiles in the developing early Christian Church caused a schism between Judaism and Jewish Christianity during the first two centuries of the Christian Era. In 313, Emperor Constantine I issued the Edict of Milan legalizing Christian worship. In 380, with the Edict of Thessalonica put forth under Theodosius I, the Roman Empire officially adopted Trinitarian Christianity as its state religion, and Christianity established itself as a predominantly Roman religion in the state church of the Roman Empire. Christological debates about the human and divine nature of Jesus consumed the Christian Church for two centuries, and seven ecumenical councils were called to resolve these debates. Arianism was condemned at the First Council of Nicea (325), which supported the Trinitarian doctrine as expounded in the Nicene Creed.

[[Calmerry Platform]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine, Psychology, Companies

Calmerry is the US online therapy platform. It is owned and operated by Mental Fuel Inc., a Delaware corporation.

The company operates in the healthcare industry. The clients are connected with the mental health professionals in virtual therapy space.

The main office is located in Cody, Wyoming.

[[Khabarovsk]]

Khabarovsk (Хабаровск) is a city in Khabarovsk Oblast, Russia.

It has 618,150 people as of 2018.

[[Evidence-based practice]]

CATEGORIES: Medical procedures

Evidence-based practice (EBP) is the concept that any medical, psychological or educational practices should be proved by science. The spread of the idea started in 1990s with the formalization of evidence-based medicine due to medical research institutes, scholars and universities.

[[Pithecopus rohdei]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

Rohde's frog, Rohde's leaf frog, or Marten's leaf frog (Pithecopus rohdei) is a frog that lives in southern Brazil, not high in the hills.

[[Tibetan calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars

The Tibetan calendar, or the Tibetan lunar calendar is a calendar based on 12 or 13 phases of the moon, which starts with a new moon, or when the moon is completely dark. A lunar month is added every 2 or 3 years to equal the solar year.

The Tibetan New Years celebration is called Losar. According to almanacs, or yearly calendar with important dates, the year starts with the third Hor month, or the Third Mongolian month.

Every month, certain dates in the calendar are used for Buddhist practices. Similarly, certain months also have importance.

[[Numantia]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Spain, Buildings and structures in Spain

Numantia (Spanish: Numancia) was an ancient Celtiberian settlement. Its remains are located 7 km north of the city of Soria, on a hill known as Cerro de la Muela in the municipality of Garray.

Numantia is famous for its role in the Celtiberian Wars. It was a city that became famous for its resistance against the Roman armies.

[[Dad joke]]

A dad joke is a short joke, usually a pun, presented as a one-liner or a question and answer, but not as a story. Typically inoffensive, it is usually told with humorous intent, or to create a negative emotion at the joke due to its simple humor. Many dad jokes can be anti-jokes, or a joke that takes the question literally making an intentionally unfunny punchline. An example of one is the simple "Why did the chicken cross the road" joke, with the punchline being "to get to the other side".

A common type of dad joke goes like this: A kid will say to their dad "I'm hungry," to which the dad will reply, "Hi, Hungry, I'm Dad." The word "hungry" isn't needed for this type of joke, as any state-of-being adjective can be used.

Although the exact origin of the term dad joke is unknown, a writer for the Gettysburg Times wrote a defense of the genre in June 1987 under the headline "Don't ban the 'Dad' jokes; preserve and revere them". The term "dad jokes" was mentioned in the American sitcom How I Met Your Mother in 2008 as well as the Australian quiz show Spicks and Specks in 2009. In September 2019, Merriam-Webster added dad joke to the dictionary.

[[Erzincan Binali Yıldırım University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey

Erzincan Binali Yıldırım University is a Turkish university. It is in Turkey's eight largest city, Erzincan.

[[Scipio Aemilianus]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome

Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus Aemilianus (185–129 BC) was a Roman general and statesman. He is commonly called  Scipio Aemilianus, or Scipio the Younger. He became known because he was a successful general in the Third Punic War against Carthage.  He was present, when Carthage was defeated and destroyed. He was also successful in the Numantine War in Spain. He also supported writers and philiosophers, called a patron. The most famous of these people he supported was probably the Greek historian Polybius. In politics, he opposed the populist reform program of his murdered brother-in-law, Tiberius Gracchus.

[[Cosmoglotta]]

CATEGORIES: Interlingue

Cosmoglotta is the central journal of the Interlingue movement.

Edgar von Wahl founded it in the year 1922 under the name Kosmoglott. Since 1927 (number 38) the journal has the name Cosmoglotta.

It is the official journal of the Interlingue-Union.

[[Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman]]

CATEGORIES: American military people

The senior enlisted advisor to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (SEAC) is the most senior non-commissioned officer (NCO)  in the United States Armed Forces.

[[Mary Hemings Bell]]

CATEGORIES: People from Virginia, 1753 births, African-American people, Slaves

[[Ruth C. Sullivan]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2021 deaths, American activists, People from Louisiana, People from Huntington, West Virginia

Ruth Christ Sullivan (April 20, 1924 – September 16, 2021) was an American organizer and activist. She was known for supporting education for people with autism. In 1965 Sullivan was one of the founders of the Autism Society of America.

Sullivan died in Huntington, West Virginia on September 16, 2021, at the age of 97.

[[Billy Maxwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, American golfers, Sportspeople from Texas

Billy Joe Maxwell (July 23, 1929 – September 20, 2021) was an American professional golfer.  Maxwell was born in Abilene, Texas. He won the U.S. Amateur title in 1951. Maxwell won seven times on the PGA Tour. He also played on the 1963 Ryder Cup team and was elected to the Texas Golf Hall of Fame.

Maxwell died on September 20, 2021 at the age of 92.

[[Neil McCarthy (basketball)]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Sportspeople from San Francisco, College basketball coaches, Sportspeople from Salt Lake City, Utah, Sportspeople from New Mexico, People from Las Cruces, New Mexico

Neil McCarthy (May 18, 1939 – September 18, 2021) was an American college basketball coach. He was head coach of the Weber State Wildcats team from 1974 to 1985 and at the New Mexico State Aggies from 1985 to 1997.

McCarthy died at his home in Salt Lake City, Utah on September 18, 2021 at the age of 81.

[[Smøla]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Norway

Smøla is a municipality in Møre og Romsdal county, Norway.  It is part of the Nordmøre region. 

Smøla is the 272nd most populous municipality in Norway with a population of 2,150.

[[Gudmund Restad]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Norwegian politicians, Mayors

Gudmund Olav Restad (19 December 1937 – 18 September 2021) was a Norwegian politician. He was a member of the Norwegian Centre Party. He was Minister of Finance from 1997 to 2000. He was Mayor of Smøla from 1980 to 1985. He was a member of the Storting between 1985 until 2001. He was born in Skaun, Norway.

Restad died on 18 September 2021 at the age of 83.

[[Skaun]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Norway

Skaun is a municipality in Trøndelag county, Norway.

The 224 city is the 297th largest by area and the 127th most populous municipality in Norway with a population of 8,325.

[[Stephen Critchlow]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2021 deaths, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, British radio actors, British voice actors, Actors from Nottinghamshire

Stephen Critchlow (16 November 1966 – September 2021) was a British actor. He was in episodes of Torchwood and Doctor Who. He has also appeared in Kenneth Williams: Fantabulosa! as Kenneth Horne. He also appeared in Skins.

Critchlow died in September 2021, at the age of 54.

[[Robin Thede]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American television presenters, American radio personalities, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American television writers, Comedians from Iowa, Actors from Davenport, Iowa, Writers from Iowa

Robin Thede (ˈ THEE; born July 27, 1979) is an American comedian, actress and writer.  In 2015, she became the first African-American woman to be head writer for a late-night talk show (The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore).  

From 2017 to 2018, Thede hosted The Rundown with Robin Thede on BET. She created and co-stars in the HBO series A Black Lady Sketch Show.

[[Andre Braugher]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Chicago

Andre Keith Braugher (ˈ; born July 1, 1962) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles as Captain Raymond Holt in the police comedy series Brooklyn Nine-Nine (2013–2021), playing detective Frank Pembleton.

[[Chelsea Peretti]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American television writers, Actors from Oakland, California, Comedians from California, Singer-songwriters from California

Chelsea Vanessa Peretti (born February 20, 1978) is an American comedian, actress, television writer and singer-songwriter. She is best known for playing Gina Linetti in the comedy series Brooklyn Nine-Nine. She also wrote for Parks And Recreation and Saturday Night Live.

[[Steve Davisson]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Indiana, US Republican Party politicians, Cancer deaths in the United States

Steve Davisson (1957/1958 – September 19, 2021) was an American politician and pharmacist. He was born in Salem, Indiana. He was a Republican member of the Indiana House of Representatives from 2010 until his death in 2021.

Davisson died on September 19, 2021 from cancer in Salem at the age of 63.

[[Ole Nordhaug]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, Lutheran bishops, People from Oslo

Ole Nordhaug (3 February 1925 – 19 September 2021) was a Norwegian Lutheran bishop. He was the first Bishop of the Diocese of Møre from its creation in 1983 until his retirement in 1991. He was born in Bolsøy, Norway. He became the Dean of the Fredrikstad Cathedral from 1977 until 1983.

Nordhaug died on 19 September 2021 in Oslo, Norway at the age of 96.

[[Betty Hemings]]

CATEGORIES: People from Virginia, 1735 births, African-American people, Slaves

[[Marina Tucaković]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2021 deaths, People with cancer, Songwriters, People from Belgrade, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Serbia

Marina Tucaković (Марина Туцаковић; 4 November 1953 – 19 September 2021) was a Serbian songwriter. She wrote many hit albums and wrote over 4,000 songs. She wrote for Slađana Milošević, Oliver Mandić and Zana. Many of her songs were performed at the Eurovision Song Contest. She was born in Belgrade.

In 2018, Tucaković was diagnosed with breast cancer. She died on 19 September 2021 from COVID-19 at a hospital in Belgrade, aged 67.

[[Labelle]]

CATEGORIES: American funk musicians, American R&B bands, American soul musicians, American rock bands

Labelle is an American all-female singing group who were a popular vocal group of the 1960s and 1970s. The founding members were Patti LaBelle (formerly Patricia Holt), Cindy Birdsong, Nona Hendryx, and Sarah Dash.

The group members each went on their own after the end of a tour in 1976. 

[[Sarah Dash]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, American funk singers, American R&B singers, American soul singers, American movie actors, Singers from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey, Actors from New Jersey, People from Trenton, New Jersey

Sarah Dash (August 18, 1945 – September 20, 2021) was an American singer-songwriter and actress. Her career began as a member of Patti LaBelle & The Bluebelles. Dash worked for LaBelle, The Rolling Stones, and Keith Richards. She was born in Trenton, New Jersey. She appeared in the movie Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Heart's Club Band.

Dash died, aged 76, on September 20, 2021.

[[Nona Hendryx]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, American funk musicians, American funk singers, American soul musicians, American soul singers, American pop singers, American pop musicians, American R&B musicians, American R&B singers, American rock guitarists, American pianists, American singer-songwriters, Musicians from New Jersey, Actors from New Jersey, Singers from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey, American record producers, Businesspeople from New Jersey, American LGBT rights activists, LGBT businesspeople, LGBT actors, LGBT singers, LGBT musicians, American movie actors, LGBT writers, Bisexual people, LGBT people from New Jersey

Nona Hendryx (born October 9, 1944) is an American singer-songwriter, record producer, musician, author, and actress.

Hendryx is known for her work as a solo artist as well as for being one-third of the trio Labelle. She sang the hit "Lady Marmalade." She is a distant cousin of Jimi Hendrix.

Hendryx is bisexual.

[[Cumbre Vieja]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Ecuador

Cumbre Vieja (Old Peak, 'kumbɾe 'bjeha) is a mountain range and an active volcano on the island of La Palma in the Canary Islands, Spain. It erupted twice in the 20th century, in 1949 (Volcán San Juan) and again in 1971 (Volcán Teneguía). The latest eruption started on 19 September 2021.

[[2021 La Palma eruption]]

CATEGORIES: September 2021 events

The 2021 La Palma eruption is an ongoing volcanic eruption of Cumbre Vieja on the island of La Palma, one of the most active volcanoes in the Canary Islands, Spain.

The eruption began at 14:12 UTC on 19 September 2021 in a forested area called Cabeza de Vaca.

An earthquake swarm started on 11 September, which led to the volcanic eruption on 19 September. 

Around 300 people from the local area were evacuated shortly after the eruption.

The eruption led to the evacuation of more than 5,000 people, and the lava has destroyed more than 450 buildings so far.

Initially, when the eruption started, it had a Volcanic Explosivity Index of 0, when it was a purely lava eruption. But with the ashfall that began a week later, the Volcanic Explosivity Index of the eruption has risen to 2.

On 28 September, at around 23:02 UTC, the lava flow reached the sea at the Perdido Beach.

[[Gabby Petito]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, 2021 deaths, Missing American people, People from New York

[[Death of Gabby Petito]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 in the United States, August 2021 events, History of Utah, History of Wyoming, September 2021 events

Gabrielle Venora Petito (March 19, 1999 – circa August 27, 2021) was an American woman from Suffolk County, New York, who was reported missing on September 11, 2021.

[[The Muppet Movie]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 movies, American movies, British movies

The Muppet Movie is a 1979 musical road comedy movie directed by James Frawley and produced by Jim Henson. It was written by The Muppet Show writers Jerry Juhl and Jack Burns.

[[The Great Muppet Caper]]

The Great Muppet Caper is the second Muppet feature movie, came out in 1981.

[[The Muppets Take Manhattan]]

The Muppets Take Manhattan is the third Muppet feature movie, came out in 1984.

[[Phineas and Ferb]]

CATEGORIES: American animated television series, 2007 American television series debuts, 2015 American television series endings

Phineas and Ferb is an American animated musical-comedy television series created by Dan Povenmire and Jeff "Swampy" Marsh for Disney Channel and Disney XD. Produced by Disney Television Animation, the series was originally broadcast as a one-episode preview on August 17, 2007, and again previewed on September 28, 2007, the series officially premiered on February 1, 2008, on Disney Channel, running until June 12, 2015.

[[Nima Bavardi]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Designers, Cartoonists

Nima Bavardi (born April 19, 1992, Tabriz) is an Iranian Designer and Cartoonist. He is a received his Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts of Industrial Design in 2011 and 2015 from Islamic Azad University, Central Tehran Branch.

Nima Bavardi designed a washbasin with the idea of black holes, which was very well received and was awarded IDA Design Award which is held in Los Angeles, the United States of America.

His name is among the top 100 designers in the World Design Consortium.[.

Since 2017 he has become a jury member of A’Design Award. After receiving many international awards in design, Bavardi became a jury member at Industart Award in Ukraine, The Stevies IBA, and LIT Awards in the USA. 

[[Big Idea Entertainment]]

Big Idea Entertainment, LLC (formerly known as Big Idea Productions, Inc. and Big Idea, Inc.; also simply as Big Idea) was an American Anime and manga production company, best known for its computer-animated VeggieTales series of Japanese-themed home videos.

[[Recess (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American animated television series

Recess is an American animated television series created by Paul Germain and Joe Ansolabehere (credited as "Paul and Joe") and produced by Walt Disney Television Animation, with animation done by Grimsaem, Anivision, Plus One Animation, Sunwoo Animation, and Toon City. The series focuses on six elementary school students and their interaction with other classmates and teachers. The title refers to the recess period during the daily schedule, in the North American tradition of educational schooling, when students are not in lessons and are outside in the schoolyard. During recess, the children form their own society, complete with government and a class structure, set against the backdrop of a regular school.

[[Millard Sheets]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1989 deaths, People from Pomona, California

Millard Owen Sheets (June 24, 1907 – March 31, 1989) was an American artist, teacher, and architectural designer. He was one of the earliest of the California Scene Painting artists and helped define the art movement. Many of his large-scale building-mounted mosaics from the mid-20th century are still extant in Southern California. His paintings are in the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Whitney Museum in New York, the Chicago Art Institute, the National Gallery in Washington D.C.; and the Los Angeles County Museum.

[[Charles Reid]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2019 deaths

Charles Clark Reid (Augustnbsp12,nbsp1937 snd Junenbsp1,nbsp2019) was an American painter, illustrator, and teacher, notable for his watercolor style. He has won numerous national and international awards for both his watercolor and oil works, and also hosted many workshops in the US and abroad. He has had numerous books published, instructional DVDs and created a postage stamp and an iconic ad campaign with his watercolor depictions. His watercolor works and oil paintings are in private and college museum collections.

[[Malabar Headland National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

The Malabar Headland National Park is a national park on the coast of New South Wales, Australia . It is around 13 kilometres southeast of downtown Sydney in the Local Government Area Randwick City near Malabar . With an area of 18 hectares, it is the smallest national park in the state.

Malabar Headland is a headland and has a size of 1.77 km².

[[Battle for BFB]]

Battle for B.F.B. (also known as Battle for B.F.D.I. and by its abbreviation, BFB) is the fourth season of the YouTube animated web series Battle for Dream Island. The show was created by twin brothers Cary and Michael Huang, under the name "jacknjellify". The show has 30 episodes, all of which were released on YouTube. The season first premiered on November 3, 2017, and concluded on April 9, 2021.

[[Laurel and Hardy]]

CATEGORIES: American comedy bands

Laurel and Hardy were a comedy duo act during the early Classical Hollywood era of American cinema, consisting of Englishman Stan Laurel (1890–1965) and American Oliver Hardy (1892–1957). From the late 1920s to the mid-1940s, they were internationally famous for their slapstick comedy, with Laurel playing the clumsy, childlike friend to Hardy's pompous bully. Their signature theme song, known as "The Cuckoo Song", "Ku-Ku", or "The Dance of the Cuckoos" (by Hollywood composer T. Marvin Hatley) was heard over their films' opening credits, and became as emblematic of them as their bowler hats.

[[The New Scooby-Doo Movies]]

CATEGORIES: American animated television series

The New Scooby-Doo Movies is an American animated mystery comedy television series produced by Hanna-Barbera for CBS. It is the second animated television series in the studio's Scooby-Doo franchise, and follows the first incarnation, Scooby-Doo, Where Are You! It premiered on September 9, 1972, and ended on October 27, 1973, running for two seasons on CBS as the only hour-long Scooby-Doo series. Twenty-four episodes were produced, 16 for the 1972–73 season and eight more for the 1973–74 season.

[[List of The New Scooby-Doo Movies episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Television episodes

This is a list of episodes from The New Scooby-Doo Movies television series. The episode titles given reflect Hanna-Barbera studio records and TV Guide listings. The episode "Wednesday is Missing" has not been released on DVD yet due to an appearance rights conflict with the creators of The Addams Family.

[[Scooby-Doo and Guess Who?]]

CATEGORIES: American animated television series

Scooby-Doo and Guess Who? is an American animated television series produced by Warner Bros. Animation and the thirteenth television series in the Scooby-Doo franchise. The series is produced by Chris Bailey.

The show first premiered on Boomerang's SVOD service on June 27, 2019, before making its linear debut on Cartoon Network on July 8, 2019, and on the Boomerang channel on October 1, 2020.

[[Darci Lynne]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 births, Living people, Singers from Oklahoma, Actors from Oklahoma

Darci Lynne Farmer (born October 12, 2004) is an American ventriloquist, singer, and actress. Born in the U.S. state of Oklahoma, she developed interests in singing from a young age but was held back by her shyness before audiences. Inspired by performances by ventriloquists, including the performances of Terry Fator, she developed a talent for ventriloquism, combining this with her skill at singing when performing in a local talent competition with her first puppet in 2014.

[[Steve Urkel]]

Steve Urkel is a fictional character on the ABC/CBS sitcom Family Matters who was portrayed by Jaleel White. Originally slated to have been a one-time only character on the show, he soon broke out to be its most popular character and gradually became its main protagonist. Due to the Urkel character's off-putting characteristics and the way he's written to stir up events and underscore the plot or even move it along, he is considered a nuisance by the original protagonist's family, the Winslows, though they come to accept him over time.

[[Kate Micucci]]

Kate Micucci (born March 31, 1980) is an American actress, comedian and musician who is half of the musical comedy duo Garfunkel and Oates. Some of her roles include Stephanie Gooch in Scrubs, Shelley in Raising Hope, Lucy in The Big Bang Theory, Sadie Miller in Steven Universe, Sara Murphy in Milo Murphy's Law, Daisy in Nature Cat, Clayface in The Lego Batman Movie, Velma Dinkley in Scooby-Doo, Webby Vanderquack in DuckTales, and Dr. Fox in Unikitty!

[[Warner Bros. Animation]]

CATEGORIES: American animation studios

Warner Bros. Animation is an American animation studio owned by the Global Kids, Young Adults and Classics division of Warner Bros. Entertainment. The studio is closely associated with the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies characters, among others. The studio is the successor to Warner Bros. Cartoons, the studio which produced Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies cartoon shorts from 1933 to 1963, and from 1967 to 1969. Warner reestablished its animation division in 1980 to produce Looney Tunes–related works.

[[Spring Song (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by Montgomery Tully

Spring Song is a 1946 British drama movie directed by Montgomery Tully and starring Peter Graves, Carole Raye, Leni Lynn, Finlay Currie, Alan Wheatley, Maire O'Neill, Gerhard Kempinski.

[[Dorrigo National Park]]

CATEGORIES: Gondwana rainforests, National parks in Australia

Dorrigo National Park is a national park in the Australian state of New South Wales, around 580 km north of Sydney. It is located on the B78 Waterfall Way in the Great Dividing Range between Armidale and Coffs Harbour, and two kilometres east of Dorrigo.

The park was opened on January 1967, and was established October 1967 and covers an area of 119 km². The operator is the New South Wales National Parks and Wildlife Service. The park is part of Australia's Gondwana Rainforests, one of several protected areas totalling 3,665 km² of world natural heritage listed by UNESCO since 1986.

In the park there is the “Skywalk”, a walk-on platform in and above the treetops, from which bird watching is possible.links

[[Sydney Harbour National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

The Sydney Harbour National Park is a national park in the Australian state of New South Wales. The protection of the park was announced in 1975. Between 1978 to 1984, the area of the park was enlarged several times.

[[Bob Faehn]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2021 deaths, Cancer deaths in the United States, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Minneapolis, Minnesota, Politicians from South Dakota, US Republican Party politicians

Bob Faehn (April 2, 1958 – September 13, 2021) was an American Republican politician. He was a member of the South Dakota House of Representatives from 2005 to 2011. He was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Faehn died of cancer on September 13, 2021, in Watertown, South Dakota at the age of 63.

[[Barrington Tops National Park]]

CATEGORIES: Gondwana rainforests, National parks in Australia

Barrington Tops National Park is a 745 km² large national park in the Australian state of New South Wales, about 270 km north of Sydney .

Barrington Tops is a plateau that stretches between two peaks of the Mount Royal Ranges, part of the Great Dividing Range. It also forms the watershed between the Hunter and Manning Rivers. Barrington Tops sits on top of a volcano and reaches an altitude of 1586 m.

At 3 December 1969 the region between Mount Barrington, Mount Royal and the Gloucester Tops was declared a national park. Since 1982 the park has been listed as part of the Gondwana rainforests of Australia as a UNESCO World Heritage Site; as such, it is the southernmost of the affiliated national parks.

[[Perm State University]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century establishments in Russia, 1916 establishments in Europe, Colleges and universities in Russia, Perm

Perm State University (now Perm State National Research University), is in the city of Perm, Perm Krai, Russia. It was founded in 1916. It is one of the oldest universities in Ural Russia. Its rector is Igor Makarikhin.

A mass shooting happened at the university on 20 September 2021. Six people died and many more wounded.

The university name in Russian is Пермский университет, Пермский государственный университет, Пермский государственный национальный исследовательский университет,  romanised: Permskiy gosudarstvennyy universitet, Permskiy gosudarstvennyy natsionalynyy issledovatelskyy universitet) or PSU, PSNRU (ПГУ, ПГНИУ, romanised: PGU, PGNIU)

[[Perm State University shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 crimes in Europe, 2021 mass shootings, 2020s mass shootings in Europe, 21st century in Russia, Attacks on buildings and structures in 2021, Attacks on schools in Europe, Perm, School shootings, September 2021 events

On 20 September 2021, a mass shooting happened at Perm State University, in the city of Perm, Perm Krai, Russia. Six people were killed and 29 more injured.

The suspected attacker, Timur Bekmansurov, was injured and arrested.

[[Burgundian language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Europe, Romance languages

The Burgundian language is an Oïl language spoken in Burgundy and particularly in the Morvan area of the region.

[[Visigothic Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Former monarchies of Europe, History of France, History of Portugal, History of Spain

The Visigothic Kingdom was a kingdom in what is now the southwest of France and the Iberian Peninsula from the 5th to the 8th centuries.

It was created when Visigoths under King Wallia entered the province of Gallia Aquitania. The Kingdom extended when they conquered Hispania.

[[Jan Jindra]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Czech sportspeople, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic bronze medalists, Rowers

Jan Jindra (6 March 1932 – 20 September 2021) was a Czech rower. He competed for Czechoslovakia in the 1952 Summer Olympics, in the 1956 Summer Olympics, and in the 1960 Summer Olympics. He won a gold medal in 1952 and a bronze medal in 1960. Jindra was born in Třeboň, present-day Czech Republic.

Jindra died on 20 September 2021 in Prague at the age of 89.

[[Třeboň]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the Czech Republic, Spa towns

Třeboň (ˈtr̝̊ɛboɲ; Wittingau) is a spa town in Jindřichův Hradec District in the South Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. About 8,200 people live there.

[[The Blue Dahlia]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies directed by George Marshall

The Blue Dahlia is a 1946 American crime thriller movie directed by George Marshall and starring Alan Ladd, Veronica Lake, William Bendix, Howard Da Silva, Doris Dowling, Hugh Beaumont, Tom Powers, Howard Freeman. It was distributed by Paramount Pictures and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1947.

[[Berowra Valley National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

Berowra Valley National Park is a national park, about 39 kilometres north of Sydney CBD in New South Wales, Australia . It is located in the greater Sydney area. The Parramatta suburb is around 17 kilometres away.

[[A Message to Garcia (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 movies, 1930s adventure movies, 1930s war movies, American adventure movies, American war movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by George Marshall

A Message to Garcia is a 1936 American war adventure movie directed by George Marshall and was based on the 1889 essay of the same name by Elbert Hubbard. It stars Wallace Beery, Barbara Stanwyck, John Boles, Alan Hale, Sr., Mona Barrie, Herbert Mundin, Juan Torena and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Heathcote National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

Heathcote National Park is a national park in east New South Wales, and about 34 km southwest of Sydney. The park is west of the Royal National Park near the suburbs of Heathcote and Waterfall.

[[Ashish Chanchlani]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, People from India, Indian people, Indian YouTubers, Living people

Ashish Chanchlani (born 08 December 1993), better known by his online username ashish chanchlani vines, is an Indian Comedy channel on YouTube. His content has changed significantly since he began uploading, now focusing on Bollywood Vines videos and established series such as 'Class of 2017' and 'OTP Series'. He has over 26 million subscribers as of September 2021. in February 2021, his channel became the second most subscribed channel on YouTube in India. and he got listed under Forbes India's 30 Under 30 list of Influential people. He is also among the top 10 richest Youtubers in India

[[Werakata National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

Werakata National Park is a national park in the east of the Australian state of New South Wales, 115 km north of Sydney, in the Hunter River region  The park is divided into three parts, which are to the northeast, east and southeast of the city of Cessnock. 

South of the park is the separate Werakata State Conservation Area. 

[[Ḥumāt ad-Diyār]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems

Ḥumāt ad-Diyār (meaning 'Guardians of the Homeland') is the national anthem of Syria. It was adopted in 1936.

[[Pithecopus centralis]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The Mato Grasso leaf frog (Pithecopus centralis) is a frog that lives in Mato Grasso in Brazil.

[[Condemned property]]

CATEGORIES: Public health, Cities, Buildings and structures

A condemned property (also called a condemned building) is any house, commercial property, business, apartment, townhouse, educational place (school, college) jail/prison, law enforcement or government property that is marked as unfit or not suitable for being occupied, being used or operated. Certain properties are also condemned for being unsafe, illegal or fire-damaged. Most are dilapidated (badly damaged), deteriorated (run down, decayed), are infested by vermin/rodents or loaded with filthy conditions (excrement, spoiled food/drinks or dirt/mud across several parts of any place that is occupied). Tropical cyclone, flood, lightning or tornado damage often also leads to the condemnation of properties.

Other conditions for which a building may be condemned involve places being boarded, having utilities disconnected or having dangerous materials, methamphetamine making labs or any dangerous locations.

Utilities are hot water, good-to-excellent heating systems working, good-to-excellent plumbing and having a safe reliable electrical outlet. Some places are condemned for vehicles parked in a yard, vehicles that are classified as not operable, having dangerous conditions.

Condemned warnings or notices (also called as placards) are usually posted onto the properties in question. They forbid when people occupy, enter or use these buildings when not authorized for doing so. Anyone other than code officials, the property inspectors or area health department officials entering, occupying or using any condemned premises, defacing or removing condemned notices/warnings are subject to fines, jail time or both. Notices of violation are often posted with the condemned notices and warnings.

New York City, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Chicago, Quad Cities (most likely Rock Island, Moline and Davenport), Baltimore,, Detroit and Los Angeles have higher numbers of condemned, abandoned and vacant homes, buildings or schools unlike several other mid-size/small and some large cities or towns in Canada and the United States.

Condemned properties are usually renovated. Many other condemned buildings or homes, however, are demolished due to their conditions.

[[Áfram Latibær!]]

CATEGORIES: Plays, Musicals

Áfram Latibær! (Let's Go LazyTown!) is an Icelandic children's stage play by Magnús Scheving that is based on his book of the same name. The play was first shown in 1996 in Loftkastalinn and was very popular. Eight years later, the television series LazyTown started to be shown and became popular worldwide.

[[Andrey Aleksandrovich Andreev]]

CATEGORIES: Russian lawyers

Andreev Andrey Aleksandrovich (born February 12, 1992, Moscow, Russia) - Russian public figure, lawyer and human rights activist. Managing Partner of the United Partners Law Office. Chairman of the International Center for the Development of Youth Initiatives "Generation of Rights". Member of the Council for Youth Affairs under the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia. 

[[Femi Fani - Kayode]]

David Oluwafemi Adewunmi Abdulateef Fani-Kayode (born 16 October 1960) is a Nigerian politician, essayist, poet, and lawyer. He was minister of aviation. He is the member of the ruling All Progressive Congress.

[[Magna Carta (An Embroidery)]]

CATEGORIES: Works about Wikipedia, 2015

Magna Carta (An Embroidery) is an embroidery of the English Wikipedia article for Magna Carta. It was made in 2015 by artist Cornelia Parker. It was made to celebrate the 800th anniversary of the Magna Carta.

Parker used 87 pieces of fabric and gave them to people around the United Kingdom. More than 200 people worked on the embroidery. Most of the text was stitched by prisoners and the pictures were done by people in the Embroiderers' Guild. Jurists, activists, and artists helped with the stitching. Many of them stitched words that they liked. Students from La Retraite Roman Catholic Girls' School were the youngest people to work on the embroidery.

[[Supreme Council of the Armed Forces]]

CATEGORIES: Egypt

The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF; المجلس الأعلى للقوات المسلحة, ar, also Higher Council of the Armed Forces and National Defence Council) is a statutory body of between 20 and 25 senior Egyptian military officers. The Field Marshal is in charge of the supreme council. It is currently Abdul Fatah al-Sisi and Lieutenant General Mohamed Ahmed Zaki. The council mets only in cases of war or great internal emergencies. 

The SCAF assumed power to take charge of Egypt after President Hosni Mubarak resigned on 11 February 2011.

[[Frank Pratt (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, State legislators of the United States, Politicians from Arizona, US Republican Party politicians

Franklin M. Pratt (August 27, 1942 – September 21, 2021) was an American politician. He was a member of the Republican Party. He was a member of the Arizona State Senate from 2017 until 2021. He was a member of the Arizona House of Representatives from 2009 until his death. Pratt was born in Florence, Arizona.

Pratt died on September 21, 2021 in Casa Grande, Arizona from a long-illness at the age of 79.

[[Richard H. Kirk]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2021 deaths, English composers, English guitarists, Saxophonists, Keyboardists, Clarinetists, Musicians from Yorkshire, Electronic musicians

Richard Harold Kirk (21 March 1956 – 21 September 2021) was an English musician. He worked on electronic music since the 1970s. He was best known as a member of the band Cabaret Voltaire. He also played for Sweet Exorcist.

[[Angelo Codevilla]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, Italian academics, American academics, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Milan

Angelo M. Codevilla (May 25, 1943 – September 21, 2021) was an Italian-American academic. He was a professor at the Pardee School of Global Studies at Boston University. He was professional staff member of the Select Committee on Intelligence of the United States Senate. He also wrote for Commentary, Foreign Affairs, National Review, and The New Republic.

Codevila died in September 2021 at the age of 78.

[[Aharon Abuhatzira]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2021 deaths, Israeli politicians, Moroccan politicians, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Israeli criminals, Fraudsters

Aharon Abuhatzira (אהרן אבוחצירא, 28 October 1938 – 21 September 2021) was an Moroccan-born Israeli politician. He was born in Erfoud, Morocco. He was a member of the Tami Party and Likud. He was a member of Knesset between 1974 until 1992. 

Abuhatzira was Minister of Religious Services between 1977 until 1981, Immigrant Absorption between 1981 until 1982 and of Labor between 1981 until 1982. In 1982, he was convicted of fraud and sentenced to four years in jail.

Abuhatzira died on 21 September 2021 at the age of 82.

[[Claude Lombard]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2021 deaths, Belgian singers, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Pop singers, Entertainers from Brussels

Claude Lombard (25 February 1945 – 20 September 2021) was a Belgian pop singer. She was best known for her participation in the 1968 Eurovision Song Contest. She performed "Quand tu reviendras" ("When You Come Back"), representing Belgium. She was born in Brussels.

Lombard died on 20 September 2021 in Brussels at the age of 76.

[[Aloys Jousten]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Belgian Roman Catholics, Roman Catholic bishops

Aloys Jousten (2 November 1937 – 20 September 2021) was a Belgian Roman Catholic prelate. He was the bishop emeritus of the Diocese of Liège in Belgium. He was bishop from 2001 until his retirement in 2013. Jousten was born in Sankt-Vith, Belgium. He became a priest in 1962.

Jousten died on 20 September 2021 in Cologne, Germany at the age of 83.

[[Cheung Yan-lung]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2021 deaths, Business people, Asian politicians

Benton Cheung Yan-lung, CBE, OStJ, JP (18 April 1922 – 19 September 2021) was a Hong Kong businessman and politician. He was a member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong from 1981 to 1991 and chairman of the Regional Council of Hong Kong and New Territories Heung Yee Kuk.

Cheung died on 19 September 2021, at the age of 99.

[[Tom Vraalsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Ambassadors, Politicians from Oslo

Tom Eric Vraalsen (26 January 1936 – 13 September 2021) was a Norwegian politician. He was the Minister of International Development from 1989 to 1990. He was a member of the Centre Party. Vraalsen was born in Oslo, Norway. He was the Ambassador to the United Kingdom between 1994 until 1996 and of the United States between 1996 until 2001.

Vraalsen died on 13 September 2021 in Oslo at the age of 85.

[[Willie Garson]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New Jersey

William Garson Paszamant (February 20, 1964spndSeptember 21, 2021) was an American actor. He was known for his role as Stanford Blatch on the HBO series Sex and the City and in the related movies Sex and the City and Sex and the City 2. He also played Mozzie in the USA Network series White Collar from 2009 to 2014.

Garson died on September 21, 2021 from pancreatic cancer at his home in Los Angeles, California at aged 57.

[[Highland Park, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in New Jersey, Middlesex County, New Jersey

Highland Park is a borough in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States in the New York City metropolitan area.

[[Santa Maria a Monte]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Tuscany

Santa Maria a Monte is a comune in the Province of Pisa in the Italian region of Tuscany. The town is about 45 west of Florence and about 25 east of Pisa.

[[Isabelle (Animal Crossing)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in the 2010s

Isabelle is a fictional character from the Animal Crossing series of video games. She is a kindly Shih Tzu that debuted in the 2012 release Animal Crossing: New Leaf, where she serves as the secretary to the player character. Isabelle has received positive reception, to the point of becoming one of the most prominent characters in the Animal Crossing franchise and its de facto mascot. Her popularity has also led to appearances outside of the Animal Crossing series, including a playable role in the crossover fighting game Super Smash Bros. Ultimate.

[[Paul Germain]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American screenwriters, American television producers

Paul Germain (born June 6, 1959) is an American animation screenwriter, television producer, director, and voice director. Among the Disney shows Germain has been know for writing, producing, or directing, are Recess, Even Stevens, Lloyd in Space, and Goldie & Bear. He was also a producer of Recess: School's Out.

[[Joe Ansolabehere]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American television producers, American screenwriters

Joe Ansolabehere (born June 18, 1959) is an American animation writer, television producer, storyboard artist, screenwriter, director, and producer. He is the co-creator of Recess and Lloyd in Space with partner and friend, Paul Germain.

[[Jeff "Swampy" Marsh]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American animators, American voice actors

Jeff "Swampy" Marsh (born December 9, 1960) is an American animator, writer, director, producer, and voice actor associated with several animated television series, most notably as an executive producer and the voice of Major Monogram for Disney's animated series Phineas and Ferb and Milo Murphy's Law, both of which he co-created with Dan Povenmire. Marsh was born in Santa Monica, California, where he grew up with a heavily blended family dynamic. Marsh has been and continues to be a driving force behind several animation projects, working for over six seasons on the animated television series The Simpsons. Marsh continued to work on other animated television series, including King of the Hill and Rocko's Modern Life, before moving to England in 1996.

[[List of assets owned by NBCUniversal]]

NBCUniversal Media, LLC is a media conglomerate that is a subsidiary of Comcast and is headquartered at the Comcast Building in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. It has film, television, cable networks, and publishing operations.

This is a listing of all of its brands, as shown at the company's website.

[[Crazy Girlfriend of Rachael]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American sitcoms

Crazy Girlfriend of Rachael is an American television sitcom created by Jeffrey Klarik which aired for two seasons on American Broadcasting Company from October 14, 2006. The series follows the experiences of teenager Rachael Valentine, portrayed by India Eisley, who becomes the crazy of life with her family.

[[Juanito Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 television series debuts, 2002 television series endings

Juanito Jones is a series of animated children's Spanish of 52 episodes of 13 minutes each, created by Rose Capdevila, Gusti and Ricardo Alcantara.  It was produced by Cromosoma e Televisió de Catalunya and originally broadcast by the Spanish network Antena 3 between 2001 and 2002.

It was later shown in other regions of the world, having been acquired by channels such as Nickelodeon Latin America , Noga (Israel), TF1 (Italy), Televisa (Mexico) and Disney Channel in France, Italy and Spain in 2001.  In Portugal debuted on RTP in 2002.  In Brazil it was shown by Nickelodeon and debuted on Canal Futura on July 2, 2007.

[[Tytus, Romek i A'Tomek]]

CATEGORIES: Comic books

Tytus, Romek i A'Tomek is the longest-published and one of the most popular Polish comic book series, created by Henryk Jerzy Chmielewski (aka Papcio Chmiel) in 1957 and concluded in 2009. It centers on Romek and A'Tomek, two Boy Scouts, and Tytus de Zoo, a chimpanzee with the ability of human speech. Many adventures in Tytus, Romek i A'Tomek have speculative or science fiction elements, some are outright parodies of the established genre.

[[Bali (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 television series debuts

Bali is an animated television series, based on a series of French children's books by Magdalena Richard and Laurent Richard that were published by Editions Flammarion. It was produced by Paris-based PlanetNemo Animation and Subsequence Entertainment, in association with CBC Radio-Canada, TVOntario, Knowledge Network, France 5, Disney Channel France and RTBF, and with the participation of the Shaw Rocket Fund, the Quebec Film and Television Tax Credit, Telefilm Canada, the Canadian Film or Video Production Tax Credit, and the Canadian Television Fund (or the Fonds canadien de television in French). PlanetNemo Animation has licensed the television program to more than 20 countries worldwide and has sold U.S. media and merchandising rights.

[[Garveyism]]

Garveyism is an aspect of black nationalism that refers to the social, economic, and political policies of UNIA-ACL founder Marcus Garvey. At the movement's peak of popularity, followers of Garveyism, known as "Garveyites", numbered in the millions, with almost a thousand local divisions in the United States, the Caribbean, Central America, Canada and Africa. The ideology of Garveyism centers on the unification and empowerment of African-American men, women and children under the banner of their collective African descent, and the repatriation of African slave descendants and profits to the African continent. Garvey was fought by the African-American establishment in the U.S. An investigation by the Justice Department, directed by J. Edgar Hoover, led to Garvey's arrest on charges of mail fraud in January 1922, and his projects collapsed.

[[Xiaolin Showdown]]

Xiaolin Showdown is an American animated television series that aired on Kids' WB and was created by Christy Hui. Set in a world where martial arts battles and Eastern magic are commonplace, the series follows four young Xiaolin warriors in training who battle the Heylin forces of evil. They do this by protecting Shen Gong Wu (ancient artifacts that have great magical powers) from villains that would use them to conquer the world. Typical episodes revolve around a specific Shen Gong Wu being revealed which results in both sides racing to find it. Episodes usually reach a head when one good and one evil character must challenge each other to a magical duel called a Xiaolin Showdown for possession of the artifact.

[[History of Albania]]

CATEGORIES: History of Albania

The history of Albania forms a part of the history of Europe. During Classical Antiquity, several Illyrian tribes lived in Albania. They were the Ardiaei, Albanoi, Amantini, Enchele  and Taulantii. There were also Thracian and Greek tribes, as well as several Greek colonies established on the Illyrian coast.

In the 3rd century BC, Rome conquered the area. It became part of the Roman provinces of Dalmatia, Macedonia and Moesia Superior. The territory remained under Roman and Byzantine control until the Slavic migrations of the 7th century. The Bulgarian Empire conquered it in the 9th century.

The Principality of Arbër and a Sicilian union known as the medieval Kingdom of Albania were established in the Middle Ages. Some areas became part of the Venetian and later Serbian Empire. Between the mid-14th and the late 15th centuries, most of modern-day Albania was dominated by Albanian principalities. They fell to the rapid invasion of the Ottoman Empire. Albania remained under Ottoman control as part of the province of Rumelia until 1912.  After a short occupation by the Kingdom of Serbia, the first independent Albanian state was founded by the Albanian Declaration of Independence. An Albanian national consciousness was formed in the  later 19th century. It is part of the larger phenomenon of the rise of nationalism under the Ottoman Empire.

The short-lived Principality of Albania (1914–1925) was succeeded by an even shorter-lived first Albanian Republic (1925–1928). Another monarchy, the Kingdom of Albania (1928–1939), replaced the republic. The country endured occupation by Italy just before World War II. After the collapse of the Axis powers, Albania became the Socialist People's Republic of Albania. It was a communist state. Enver Hoxha governed it most of its duration (died 1985). his political succesor Ramiz Alia oversaw the disintegration of the communist state. This happened during the wider collapse of the Eastern Bloc in the later 1980s.

The communist regime collapsed in 1990. The former communist Party of Labour of Albania was defeated in elections in March 1992, amid economic collapse and social unrest. The unstable economic situation led to an Albanian diaspora during the 1990s. The crisis peaked in the Albanian Turmoil of 1997. Albania was able to join the NATO in 2009 thanks to the improved economic and political conditions. The country is applying to join the European Union.

[[List of assets owned by 21st Century Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 21st Century Fox

These are assets formerly owned by 21st Century Fox before its majority of assets were acquired by The Walt Disney Company with other assets spun off to the Fox Corporation and other third-party companies.

[[Russell Surasky]]

Russell Surasky (born Jul 6, 1981 in Manhasset, New York), know professionally as Dr. Surasky, is an American Neurologist and addiction medicine specialist from New York. He is the only physician board certified by the American Academy of Neurology, the American Board of Preventive Medicine, and the American Board of Addiction Medicine. Surasky is also a national lecturer on the subject of opiate addiction.

[[Walls of Jerusalem National Park]]

CATEGORIES: Tasmanian Wilderness, National parks in Australia

The Walls of Jerusalem National Park is located in the centre of  Tasmania. The park has a size of about 518 km² and was founded June 1981. It has been part of the Tasmanian Wilderness UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1982 and is on both the cultural and natural heritage lists. This is where King Davids Peak is located.

[[History of Andorra]]

CATEGORIES: Andorra

Andorra, officially the Principality of Andorra (Principat d'Andorra), is a microstate located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France.

Andorra claims it is the last independent survivor of the Marca Hispanica. This was the buffer states created by Charlemagne to keep the Islamic Moors from advancing into Christian France. According to the tradition, Charlemagne granted a charter to the Andorran  people in return for their fighting the Moors.  In the 9th century,  Charlemagne's grandson, Charles the Bald, named the Count of Urgell as overlord of Andorra. A descendant of the count later gave the lands to the Diocese of Urgell.

In the 11th century, the Bishop of Urgell placed himself under the protection of the Lord of Caboet, a Catalan nobleman. Later, the Count of Foix  became heir to the Lord of Caboet through marriage in 1208. A dispute arose between the Occitan Count and the Catalan bishop over  Andorra.

In 1278, the conflict was resolved by the signing of a pareage (pariatges). This stated that Andorra's sovereignty was shared between the Count of Foix and the Bishop of La Seu d'Urgell  (Catalonia). The pareage gave the small  state its territory and political form. In return, Andorra pays an annual tribute or questia to the co-rulers consisting of four hams, forty loaves of bread, and some wine. Andorra's borders have remained unchanged since 1278.

Andorra was briefly annexed to the Crown of Aragon twice, in 1396 and 1512.

[[Royal National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

The Royal National Park is a national park in New South Wales of Australia. It is located 29 kilometres south of Sydney and is part of the Sydney metropolitan area.

[[Pithecopus megacephalus]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The large-headed leaf frog (Pithecopus megacephalus) is a frog that lives in Brazil.  Scientists have seen it 800 meters above sea level in the 800 m in the Espinaço Mountains.

[[Ecclesiastical court]]

CATEGORIES: Christianity, Law

There are different movements in Christianity. Over time, each of these movements developed a number of rules to follow. An ecclesiastical court is a court of law that only uses one of these sets of rules to judge people. In the case of the Roman Catholic Church, these rules are known as Canon law, and they can be found in the Codex Iuris Canonici.

[[Flinders Chase National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

Flinders Chase National Park is a national park in South Australia in Kangaroo Island south of Adelaide. The park has a size of 326 km² and is distributed over the three areas; Cape du Couedic and Rocky River, Gosse Lands and the Cape Borda Lighthouse in the west of the island. The park was founded in 1919. The closest town is Kingscote, about 110 km away.

The main attractions of the park are the bizarre rocks of the Remarkable Rocks, the colonies of fur seals at Admirals Arch, and the lighthouse at Cape Borda from 1858. There are also numerous kangaroos and koalas in the park.

[[Hemings family]]

CATEGORIES: People from Virginia, Slaves

The Hemings family was a group of people who lived in Virginia.  They were Elizabeth Hemings and her children and other descendants.  They were enslaved people, meaning some of their ancestors had been kidnapped in Africa and brought over the Atlantic Ocean in the Trans-Atlantic slave trade.  Some of them became free later.  For part of their history, they were enslaved to the Eppes family, to the Wayles family, and to Thomas Jefferson.  The Hemingses were the largest family to live at Monticello.

[[Savitribai Phule]]

Savitribai Phule (3 January 1831 – 10 March 1897) was a social reformer of India. She was a poet from Maharashtra. She is known as the "first female teacher of India". She worked on improving the rights of women in India with her husband. Her husband's name was Jyotirao Phule. They started the first Indian girls school in Pune, at Bhide wada in 1848. She tried to end social class and unfair treatment based on sex in Indian society. She was an important person of the social reform in Maharashtra.

[[2095]]

CATEGORIES: 21st century, Years in the future

2095 (MMXCV) is a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar. It is 2095th year of the Anno Domini calendar system and is the 5th year of the 2090s decade of the 21st Century. Predictions cited from futuretimeline.net, "global fertility has stabilized at just under 2.0 births per woman" and "many of the world's languages at no longer in use."

[[Indian Women's League]]

CATEGORIES: 2016 establishments in India, Sport in India

The Indian Women's League is the top level in the women's professional football league system in India. The first season started in Cuttack in October 2016. The league is run by the All India Football Federation (AIFF).

[[Silk Sonic]]

CATEGORIES: Musical duos

Silk Sonic is an American super-duo consisting of singers-songwriters Bruno Mars and Anderson Paak. The duo released their debut single, "Leave the Door Open", on March 5, 2021, with a forthcoming debut album, An Evening with Silk Sonic, announced for an early 2022 release.

[[Greg Maluma]]

CATEGORIES: Zambian sportspeople, Karate, Martial artists, 1998 births, Living people

Greg Maluma (born 5 May 1998) is a Zambian karate practitioner and the 2019 all African karate champion.

Maluma was born on May 5 1998 in Lusaka, capital city of Zambia. He started training in karate at a young age and earned his first dan black belt in 2016. In March 2019, he was selected to represent Zambia at the All African karate tournament where he won a Gold medal.  

In September 2019 he took part in Desert Storm 3. He was awarded a gold medal after his opponent pulled out in the last minute before the fight.

[[Tom Moyal]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, French people, Designers

Tom Moyal (born 1997) is a French graphic designer. He has been featured in numerous mainstream media including Entrepreneur (magazine), SF Weekly, the Jerusalem Post.

[[Sahil Kothari]]

Sahil Kothari ( born 19 August 1990) is an Indian life coach and astrology columnist. Sahil is contributed to many peoples' lives on face reading, Usui reiki, psychology, healing, spirituality,  and astrology.

[[Tarantino Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedias

The Tarantino Wikipedia (Tarantino: Uicchipèdie) is a name of a site in the language and contains  articles articles.

[[Northern Alliance]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 establishments in Asia, 2001 disestablishments, History of Afghanistan, Military alliances

The Northern Alliance, officially the United Islamic National Front for the Salvation of Afghanistan, was an anti-Taliban military alliance of warlords and military commanders against the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in support of the Islamic State of Afghanistan. It was active between 1996 and 2001. It was based in the city of Taloqan, Afghanistan. In 2001, it was reported that a leader of the movement was killed by Taliban fighters. The group was dissolved in 2001 following the September 11 attacks with the United States invading the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in the War in Afghanistan.

[[Bouddi National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

The Bouddi National Park is a national park in New South Wales, 44 kilometres northeast of Sydney on the shores of the Pacific Ocean. It is near Broken Bay, the mouth of the Hawkesbury River. Part of this national park also includes the adjacent coastal waters, so that a contiguous habitat on land, on the coast and in the sea is protected. The park also includes Fletchers Glen, one of the last remaining temperate rainforests on the central stretch of the New South Wales coast.

Originally the park was called Bouddi Natural Park. It got its name at the second Park Association meeting in 1936. Other names that were under discussion were Maitland Bay Park, Cape Three Points Reserve, and Gerrinbombi Park . The reason for the choice of the name was the fact that Bouddi was documented as an Aboriginal name for this area, since it appeared in maps from 1828.   The park association was formed the year before to administer the park and had members from the NSW Federation of Bushwalking Clubs and the Erina Shire Council.

In 1967 the then 530 hectare park was rededicated as a national park and renamed Bouddi State Park according to the legislation that had just come into force. Management passed to the NSW National Park and Wildlife Service and shortly thereafter the parks association was transformed into an advisory committee. On the 1st January 1974 the National Park and Wildlife Act dropped the State Park category and the park was renamed Bouddi National Park. 

[[Get Me Up]]

Get Me Up Is a first album soundtrack by the singer Chase The RockStar Pup, Released in June 11, 2000, labeled RCA Records, recording due on 1999, Which he did cool, also he did a forceful, reactive and radioactive voice on 12 tracks, Which is he did on his first try

[[Of Human Bondage (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on books, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Edmund Goulding

Of Human Bondage is a 1946 American drama movie. Edmund Goulding directed the movie. It is the second movie made of the 1915 novel of the same name by W. Somerset Maugham. It stars Paul Henreid, Eleanor Parker, Edmund Gwenn, Janis Paige, Patric Knowles, Doris Lloyd, Alexis Smith, Isobel Elsom. Warner Bros. distributed the movie.

[[Paddy field]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture, Rice

When growing semiaquatic plants, such as rice and taro, paddy fields are used. These fields are filled with shallow water at least part of the year. Growing these plants is very labor-intensive. A lot of water is needed. Paddy-fields started next to the Yangtze River in China, in the Neolithic. Later, their use spread to other areas in Asia. Paddy fields are built next to marshes or using terraces, on a hillside.

Deepwater rice is not grown using paddy fields: It needs water over 50 deep for at least a month.

[[Naracoorte Caves National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

The Naracoorte Caves National Park is a national park in the southeast of the Australian state of South Australia, 313 km southeast of Adelaide, 83 km north of Mount Gambier and 15 km southeast of Naracoorte.  1994, the area was declared a national park because of its extraordinarily extensive fossil finds and classified together with Riversleigh in Queensland as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The natural world heritage area contains 26 caves on 3.05 km² area.

[[Heaven Hill]]

Heaven Hill is a large family-owned distillery in Kentucky.  It was started in 1935. It is among the largest producers of alcoholic beverages in the United States. Its is mostly known for producing Bourbon whiskey. Today, it produces different brands of whisky, amongst others Heaven Hill and J.W.Dant. It also produces whiskey for other brands who do not have a distillery of their own. Heaven Hill is the last larger producer of Corn whiskey in the United States. 

[[Deepwater rice]]

CATEGORIES: Rice

Deepwater rice is the name for different species of rice that grow in deeper water (of 50 to 1. These variaties have adaptations that allow them to keep their leaves outside the water: Either they have longer leaves, or they float on top of the water. 

More than 100 million people in Southeast Asia including Northeastern India rely on deepwater rice for their sustenance. Two adaptations permit the rice to live in deeper water, floating rice and traditional talls. Traditional talls are varieties that are grown at water depths between 50. They have developed to be taller and have longer leaves than standard rice. Floating rice grows in water deeper than 100 cm through advanced elongation ability. This means when a field where rice is growing floods, accelerated growth in the internodal of the stem allows the plant to keep some of its foliage on top of the water. The O. s. indica cultivar is the main type of deepwater rice, although varieties of O. s. japonica have been found in Burma and Assam Plains.

Usually, rice is grown in shallow water, using paddy fields.

[[Oxley Wild Rivers National Park]]

CATEGORIES: Gondwana rainforests, National parks in Australia

Oxley Wild Rivers National Park is a national park in the state of New South Wales, Australia. It is roughly halfway between Sydney and Brisbane, around 80 km from Dorrigo. Its name comes from the explorer John Oxley, who also crossed this area.

The national park was placed under protection in September 1986. It covers an area of approximately 142,332 hectares. These are several, non-contiguous sub-areas.

The Oxley Wild Rivers National Park borders the Willi Willi National Park.

[[Barakee National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

Barakee National Park is a national park in the east of the Australian state of New South Wales, 257 km north of Sydney and about 110 km west of Port Macquarie. 

The national park is located on the north bank of the Nowendoc River. 

The park has an area of 49.8km2 and became a national park on January 1 1999.

[[Willandra National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

Willandra National Park is a national park in the southwest of the Australian state of New South Wales, 582 km west of Sydney. The park is about 60 km west of the town of Hillston and 170 km northwest of Griffith.

[[Brisbane Water National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

Brisbane Water National Park is a national park in the east of the Australian state of New South Wales, 47 kilometres northeast of Sydney. It lies north of the mouth of the Hawkesbury River and was named after the Brisbane Water lagoon between Gosford and Woy Woy, which borders the park to the east. The western and northern borders are formed by the Pacific Highway.

The park consists of steep sandstone cliffs overgrown with forest.

There are many hiking trails in the park that can be classified from easy to difficult. One route that is easily accessible by public transport is to Pindar Cave on the rock step above Wondabyne Station, a on-demand stop on the Central Coast Railway Line (Sydney-Newcastle) which is also the only train station in Australia inaccessible by road.  This large park is also home to many other hiking trails such as the Great North Walk. 

[[Extrajudicial killing]]

CATEGORIES: Law

An extrajudicial killing (or extralegal killing) is the killing of a person  without waiting for the result of a state trial. Extrajudicial killings happen in states which either have laws favoring them, or where the state condones the killing. An example might be that someone is suspected of having done something which dishonors the family. Killing the person might be a way to keep the family in good standing (This is known as honor killing). The state might have laws that do not see this as murder, so the killers will not get a harsh sentence, or they will go unpunished altogether.

If forces of the state kill someone this is seen as extrajudicial killing, if none of the following applies:

[[Islamic ethics]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics, Islam

Islamic ethics is the name for a number of moral teachings, which have been influenced by Islam. Scholars have developed a set of rules how people should behave in society. As there are different movements in Islam, they sometimes do not agree. Where it is used, Islamic law is also influenced by the local interpretation of Islamic ethics. 

[[Magnificent Doll]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by Frank Borzage

Magnificent Doll is a 1946 American drama movie directed by Frank Borzage and starring Ginger Rogers, David Niven, Burgess Meredith, Peggy Wood, Stephen McNally, Robert Barrat, Grandon Rhodes, Henri Letondal. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Boonoo Boonoo National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia

The Boonoo Boonoo National Park (pronounced: 'Banna-Banuh'  ) is a national park in the northeast of the Australian state of New South Wales, around 571 km north of Sydney and 26 km northeast of Tenterfield on Mount Lindesay Road.

The park has an area of 43.77km2 and was founded in March 19 1982.

The Boonoo Boonoo River flows through a narrow valley with the rainforest in the park and forms a 210 m tall waterfall.

Forest walks, swimming and camping in the forest are among the most popular recreational activities.

[[Internet Stream Protocol]]

CATEGORIES: Internet protocols

The Internet Stream Protocol was a protocol which was developed for streaming content over the internet. It was first developed in 1979, and later revised. Despite this it was never widely used. It used the number 5 for the version field of the internet protocol. For this reason, the extended version of the internet protocol is known as version 6, as the version 5 was already taken. 

[[Night Editor]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s crime movies, American crime movies, Movies directed by Henry Levin

Night Editor is a 1946 American crime movie directed by Henry Levin and was based on the radio program of the same name. It stars William Gargan, Janis Carter, Jeff Donnell, Charles D. Brown, Paul E. Burns, Frank Wilcox and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Across the Pacific]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s adventure movies, American war movies, American romance movies, American adventure movies, World War II movies, Movies based on short stories, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by John Huston, Movies directed by Vincent Sherman

Across the Pacific is a 1942 American World War II romantic adventure movie directed by John Huston and Vincent Sherman and was based on the 1941 short story Aloha Means Good-bye by Robert Carson. It stars Humphrey Bogart, Mary Astor, Sydney Greenstreet, Kam Tong, Charles Halton, Roland Got, Frank Wilcox, Lester Matthews, Roland Drew and was distributed by Warner Bros..

[[Shafali Verma]]

CATEGORIES: Indian people, 2004 births, Cricketers

Shafali Verma  is an Indian athlete.  She plays on India's national women's cricket team. She was born on 28 January 2004. She became the youngest cricket player from India at the age of 15. In June 2021, She became the most young player from India in all three formats (Test, One Day, T20) of international cricket. She is the right hand opening batsman of  the Indian team. She is also a member of the India A Women team and the Birmingham Phoenix Women team. She is also sometimes a right-arm offbreak bowler.

[[Brewarrina Aboriginal Fish Traps]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of New South Wales, Buildings and structures in New South Wales

The Brewarrina fish traps (Also known as Baiames Ngunnhu) are located in the town of Brewarrina on the Barwon River in the north west of New South Wales, around 800 km northwest of Sydney. It is the largest known Aboriginal fish trap facility in Australia. It is believed to be the oldest human construction in the world although it hasn't been confirmed yet.

The fish traps are probably around 40,000 years old, although the exact date is not known. They are around 500 m long. They are in the Ngunnhu Aboriginal territory. The fish traps consisted of many small stone circles that could be separated by stone weirs. There the fish were led so that they could be caught. The design, complexity and size of the facility are unique in Australia. For this reason they are a national monument.

Before the European settlement, the Aboriginals used the river for fishing. Stones were removed from the river by the settlers to allow paddle steamers to travel, and rocks were removed in the 1920s to be used for house foundations and roads. The steamships could not sail in the dry season.

The Ngunnhu people had strong social, cultural and spiritual relationships with other Aboriginal groups, and they also allowed other Aboriginal countries to fish according to rules, times and periods. They were associated with the Aborigines of the Kamilaroi, Marowari, Paarkinji, Weilwan, Barbinja and Ualaria. The neighbouring Aboriginal countries were invited by Ngunnhu to cooroborees, ceremonies, initiations, trade and barter.

The Ngunnhu attribute the possibility of fishing to the mythical Baiame, a dreamtime creature who created the landscape, lakes, rivers and beings. 

The plant is partly overgrown by reeds. The fish ladder was opened on June 3 2005 registered in the Australian National Heritage List because it was of particular historical importance for the social and cultural coexistence within the Aboriginals.

[[AD 2098]]

2098 (MMXCVIII) is a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar. It is the 2098th year of Anno Domini calendar system and is the 8th year of the 2090s decade and the 98th year of the 21st Century. According to online predictions, this year will see 80 percent of the Amazon rainforest lost, global sea levels wreck havoc on many areas, the average employee will work less than 20 hours a week, and hurricane defense forces will be operational in the United States.

[[Aidan Sowa]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1999 births, American businesspeople

Aidan Sowa (born 1999) is an American tech entrepreneur and state-level chessplayer from Daly City, USA. 

In 2020, he was listed as 25 Entrepreneurs by CEO Blog Nation. Aidan has appeared as a guest speaker in the Round Table Talk Show and was interviewed in Season 1 of This is it TV and Fox LA TV. He has also appeared in several business live shows and podcasts.

[[Pithecopus rusticus]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

Pithecopus rusticus is a frog that lives in Brazil.

[[Darlington Probation Station]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Tasmania, Australian Convict Sites

The historic Darlington Probation Station is a UNESCO world heritage site located on Maria Island off the east coast of Tasmania, Australia. The camp is located in the northwest of the island on Darling Bay in Maria Island National Park, where the former Darlington settlement was located. Since 1825 there was a camp on the island for prisoners who had committed serious crimes. From 1842 to 1850 it was operated as one of two British penal camps, alongside the Cascades Female Factory, as an education camp. 

[[Ramiz King]]

Ramiz King (Born August 19, 1996) is an Indian & Afghan Australian Actor, Media Personality, Entrepreneur & Producer. Ramiz is best known to be a Reality Television Personality on MTV India  and Afghan Television. He gained recognition for initiating a new genre of entertainment and celebrity through non-fiction content in Afghanistan.

[[Snake oil]]

CATEGORIES: Health, Pseudoscience

In English, snake oil is the name for a product (usually a drug) that has no real effect, or which is given properties it does not have. The term comes from the "snake oil" that used to be sold as a cure-all elixir for many kinds of physiological problems. Many 19th-century United States and 18th-century European entrepreneurs advertised and sold mineral oil as "snake oil liniment".  Different herbs and spices, were added to the mineral oil. Sometimes, it also contained other drugs, but it didn't contain any products made from snakes. They also said snake oil could be used as a panacea. Drugs that claimed to be a panacea were extremely common from the 18th century until the 20th, particularly among vendors masking addictive drugs such as cocaine, amphetamine, alcohol and opium-based products, to be sold at medicine shows as medication or products promoting health.Stub

[[M Miraz Hossain]]

M Miraz Hossain is Bangladeshi industrialist and writer. He born on January 1, 1978.

[[Echo (acoustics)]]

CATEGORIES: Acoustics, Sound

In acoustics, echo is when sound comes back. The word echo come from Greek word  ἠχώ (ēchō) from (ēchos), "sound". 

In nature echo  happens in empty spaces, woods or mountains.  

[[Panacea (medicine)]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine, Alchemy

In medicine, a panacea is a drug that can cure all diseases. In the Middle Ages, alchemists tried to find such a drug. Because different diseases, have different causes, they need to be treated in different ways. For this reason, such a drug cannot exist.

[[Humptulips, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Washington (state)

Humptulips is a census-designated place in the state of Washington. In 2010, 255 people lived there. The place lies on the banks of the river with the same name.

[[Callimedusa]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

Callimedusa is a genus of frogs in the family Phyllomedusidae.

The frogs in this genus live in South America.

Species:

[[The Adventures of Martin Eden]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 movies, 1940s adventure movies, American adventure movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Sidney Salkow

The Adventures of Martin Eden is a 1942 American adventure movie directed by Sidney Salkow and was based on the 1909 novel Martin Eden by Jack London. It stars Glenn Ford, Claire Trevor, Frank Conroy, Stuart Erwin, Evelyn Keyes and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[The start]]

CATEGORIES: Technology

A Video is a technology. It records moving images onto some medium. The recorder may be a separate machine such as a videocassette recorder (also called a VCR) or built into something else such as a video camera. 

A popular 20th century videotape format was VHS. It was used by many people to record television programmes onto cassettes. This is usually an analog format. In the 21st century digital recording is used more often than analog recording. 

By extension, a video clip is a short movie. A music video usually stars someone who recorded an (audio) album. One purpose is to promote the album.

[[COVIran Barekat]]

CATEGORIES: COVID-19 pandemic

COVIran Barekat is a COVID-19 vaccine developed in Iran by Shifa Pharmed Industrial Group, an aiding of the Barkat Pharmaceutical Group. It is an inactivated virus-based vaccine. It has been authorized for emergency use by the Iranian government . This makes it the first locally-developed COVID-19 vaccine to be approved for emergency use in the Middle East.

[[The Stranger (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s mystery movies, 1940s thriller movies, American mystery movies, American thriller movies, Movies directed by Orson Welles

The Stranger is a 1946 American psychological mystery thriller movie directed by Orson Welles (who also stars) and also starring Edward G. Robinson, Loretta Young, Philip Merivale, Konstantin Shayne, Byron Keith, Billy House, Martha Wentworth. It was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures.

[[Mafalda (character)]]

Mafalda is a comic character created by the Argentine cartoonist Quino who appeared for the first time in 1964 in the magazine Leoplan. It is about a girl who cares too much about the global situation through her sayings and phrases she looks for a wait for human problems almost always leaning Nihilism.

[[Keegan Kolesar]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, ECHL players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, Seattle Thunderbirds players, People from Manitoba, Vegas Golden Knights players

Keegan Kolesar (born April 8, 1997) is a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger for the  Vegas Golden Knights of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Shueisha]]

Shueisha Inc. (Japanese: 株式会社集英社, Hepburn: Kabushiki-gaisha Shūeisha) is a Japanese company headquartered in Chiyoda, Tokyo, Japan. The company was established in 1925 as the entertainment-related publishing division of Japanese publisher Shogakukan. The following year, Shueisha became a separate, independent company.

Manga magazines published by Shueisha include the Jump magazine line, which includes shonen magazines Weekly Shōnen Jump, Jump SQ, and V Jump, and seinen magazines Weekly Young Jump, Grand Jump and Ultra Jump. They also publish other magazines, including Non-no. Shueisha, along with Shogakukan, owns Viz Media, which publishes manga from all three companies in North America.

[[Hyde Park Barracks]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Sydney, Australian Convict Sites

Hyde Park Barracks in Sydney, Australia is a brick building designed by convict and architect Francis Greenway and constructed from 1818 to 1819. The building on Macquarie Street in Sydney CBD, and is listed on UNESCO's World Heritage List as Australian Convict Sites and on the Australian National Heritage List. The site was intended to house male convicts. Today it is operated as a museum by the Historic Houses Trust of New South Wales.  

The building is in close proximity to the historic Sydney Mint and Hyde Park.

[[Fremantle Prison]]

CATEGORIES: Australian Convict Sites

The Fremantle Prison is a former prison in Fremantle. It is listed on the Australian National Heritage List  and on the UNESCO World Heritage List as one of the eleven Australian Convict Sites.

[[Rajapur, Uttar Pradesh]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Uttar Pradesh

 Rajapur is a town (Nagar Panchayat) and  tehsil of Chitrakoot district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. It is situated along the bank of river Yamuna. It has its nickname as "Tulsi Dhaam" after great Hindi poet Goswami Tulsidas, who is the writer of holy "Ram Charit Manas" along with many other religious books of Hindus. There is a temple devoted to Tulsidas where part of the original "Hand written Scripture" of Ramcharitmanas is still available, although some pages may be missing. Rajapur is linked  with Kaushambi district on the opposite bank of river Yamuna.

[[Old Government House, Parramatta]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Sydney, Australian Convict Sites

The Old Government House and Government Domain is a listed ensemble of the Old Government House, outbuildings and Parramatta Park in Parramatta, now a suburb of Sydney in New South Wales, Australia . The buildings were the residences of twelve of New South Wales' early governors from 1788 to 1865. 

The Old Government House is Australia's oldest public building. It was built in 1799 on behalf of Governor John Hunter and was later the permanent residence of Governor Lachlan Macquarie, who built the outbuildings. 

Due to its national and international importance, the building is 1.1 km² park on August 1 2007 as an ensemble in the National Monument Protection List and on July 31 2010 it was entered in the list of the UNESCO world cultural heritage. It is an example of a Georgian structure of high structural quality.  It was built by convicts and is one of eleven buildings that document the building culture of early New South Wales as an Australian convict colony as Australian Convict Sites.

The Dharug people lived in this area, whose former presence has been proven by archaeological findings (historical rubbish heaps in the park). Some of the shells found in the rubbish heaps were used to make lime mortar for the construction of the building.

[[Rin Chitra]]

Chitra Rin (រិន ចិត្រា; born March 20, 1996) is a Cambodian entrepreneur, digital marketer and CEO who founded Aisaki Media.

Chitra Rin has gained excellent knowledge in the past few years. He was born in 1996 (which started on a Monday, but was like a Tuesday year). Now he is using his expertise for the progress of companies and individuals around the globe.

Chitra Rin is the founder and CEO of Aisaki Media, and his outstanding Business mindset says much about the prosperous future of Aisaki.

[[Carrot films]]

Carrot films is a Indian Documentary film production house  based in Delhi, India. It was founded by Ishani K dutta and Ashish dutta in 1986. After its inception, Carrot has always been people and issue oriented documentaries and development communication films.

[[Mimoza Thaqi]]

CATEGORIES: Albanian people, Slovenian people, Living people, Fashion designers

Mimoza Thaqi is an Albanian fashion designer and fashion influencer based in London.

[[Franklin-Gordon Wild Rivers National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Australia, Tasmanian Wilderness

Franklin Gordon Wild Rivers National Park is a national park in Tasmania.

[[Pithecopus nordestinus]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

Pithecopus nordestinus is a frog that lives in Brazil.

[[Vatnajökull National Park]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Europe, National parks in Europe

Vatnajökull National Park (Icelandic:Vatnajökulsþjóðgarður) is one of three national parks in Iceland. It contains the entire Vatnajökull glacier and the extensive nearby areas, including the former Skaftafell National Park in the southwest and the former Jökulsárgljúfur National Park in the north.

What's special about the Vatnajökull National Park lies mainly in its great variety of scenic features, which are created through a combination of rivers, glaciers, volcanism and geothermal activity.

[[MLB (2005 video game)]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation 2 games, Sports video games, PlayStation Portable games, 2005 video games

[[Church of the Brethren]]

CATEGORIES: Anabaptism, Church of the Brethren, Members of the National Council of Churches, Members of the World Council of Churches, Peace churches

The Church of the Brethren is a Christian group that started within the Schwarzenau Brethren. Alexander Mack organised it in 1708 in Schwarzenau, Germany. It combined the Radical Pietist and Anabaptist movements. The group believes that the New Testament as its only creed. Historically, the church has supported nonresistance or pacifism, which is being against violence.

Distinctive practices include:

[[Natalie Meyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Politicians from North Carolina, Politicians from Denver, Colorado, US Republican Party politicians

Natalie Meyer (May 20, 1930 – September 23, 2021) was an American politician. She was the Secretary of State of Colorado from 1983 to 1995.

She died on September 23, 2021, in Denver, Colorado at age 91.

[[Pride Power List]]

Pride Power List launched in 2012 by Linda Riley, publisher of DIVA magazine, the Pride Power List celebrates the achievements of LGBTQIA+ people and their allies in the UK. 

For the first three years the list was published under the name World Pride Power List. 

In 2012 was difficult to find enough people in the UK to fill the list with 100 names. By 2015 this had changed, leading to the list becoming a UK-only list divided into sections and not ranked.

From 2016 to 2019, a ranked list was published in the National Pride Guide as well as The Guardian.

Compiled via a public vote, the Pride Power List celebrates community activists and corporate allies as well as politicians, authors, actors, musicians and sports stars. Nominations for the Pride Power List open in January every year. 

Publication of the list has been celebrated with a Pride Power List Breakfast at the exclusive members only club Home House in London since 2015. Individuals from the list are invited to attend.. Speakers at the event include Phyll Opoku Gyimah, Charlie Condou, Jane Hill, Peter Tatchell and Dawn Airey. As well as former Allies of the Year Dawn Butler and Penny Mordant. 

The list is published to coincide with Pride In London every year. Due to the pandemic and the postponement of Pride events in 2020 and 2021, the list was published during Pride Month. 

[[Ibrahim Garba]]

Ibrahim Garba is a Nigerian academic, geologist and former Vice Chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. He was also the Vice Chancellor of the Kano State University of Science and Technology, Wudil.

[[Ahmad Imam]]

Ahmad Imam is a global presenter, host, content creator and social media personality.

[[Rainbow Honours]]

Rainbow Honour is an awards event celebrating members of the LGBTQIA+ community and their allies. 

Founded by Linda Riley publisher of Diva (magazine) 

The first Rainbow Honours ceremony took place at Madame Tussauds, London in December 2019.

The event was hosted by Australian Drag Queen Courtney Act and Hollyoaks Actor and Blue singer Duncan James. 

Rainbow Honours winners included LGBTQ ICON - Sue Perkins, CAMPAIGNER - Peter Tatchell, Lifetime Achievement - Sue Sanders and CELEBRITY ALLY - Sadiq Khan. 

The awards were attended by celebrities such as Denise Welch, Charlie Condou, Anna Richardson, Gaby Roslin and Samantha Fox and Sinitta.

[[Diva (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of the United Kingdom

DIVA is Europe's leading magazine targeted towards LGBTQI women and non-binary people most especially those that live in United Kingdom. 

[[Dylan Vanas]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Businesspeople from Las Vegas, Nevada

Dylan Vanas is a digital entrepreneur based in the Las Vegas, United States. He is knowns for social media growth hacking for Fortune 500 companies and has been featured in several publications including Entrepreneur (magazine), Yahoo, Fox News, ABC News, etc.

[[Hylomantis]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

Hylomantis is a genus of tree frogs.  Some scientists say they are in the family Hylidae and other scientists say they are in the family Phyllomedusidae. They are called rough leaf frogs in English.  They live in the Atlantic forest in eastern Brazil. There are two species in this genus.  Scientists used to say there were more, but now they think those frogs are really in the genus Agalychnis.

[[Patrick Gajda]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1991 births, Polish businesspeople

Patrick Gajda (born 25 April 1991) is an Poland entrepreneur, Investor and the founder of Superbid a Poland-based Company. He works as Entrepreneur,digitial expert,Social media advisor,and is a trade advisor. Initator and founder of SuperBid.io - the world's frist social auction app which connects fans with thousands of influencer-led auctions for items, experiences, and NFTs, with a record $800M company valuation after three months of operation .

[[Harper's Bazaar]]

CATEGORIES: Fashion magazines

Harper's Bazaar is an American monthly fashion magazine for women. It was first published in New York City on November 2, 1867. Before 1901, there were several issues a year. From 1901, it was published monthly. In 1913 magazine was bought out by American businessman William Randolph Hearst and his conglomerate Hearst.

[[BBC Bridge Companion]]

CATEGORIES: Video game consoles, BBC, Contract bridge

The BBC Bridge Companion is an 8-bit video game console made to teach bridge. It was made by BBC Enterprises Ltd and came out in 1985 in the United Kingdom for £199.99.

[[Red Rose Transit Authority]]

The Red Rose Transit Authority is a transit bus company located in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. On December 1, 2014, it became merged with the Berks Area Reading Transportation Authority (BARTA) and both are now subsidiaries of the South Central Transit Authority (SCTA). Collectively, the SCTA owns and operates 94 buses. BARTA operates 50 buses while Red Rose Transit Authority (RRTA) operates 44 buses.

[[Hiruzen Sarutobi]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional Japanese people

Hiruzen Sarutobi (猿 飛 ヒ ル ゼ ン, Sarutobi Hiruzen) was the Third Hokage (三代 目 火影, Sandaime Hokage) of Konohagakure, in his youth he was the student of the first two Hokages, Hashirama and Tobirama Senju then he was teacher of Jiraiya, Tsunade and Orochimaru the three legendary Sannin. He was resurrected by Orochimaru in the Fourth Shinobi World War.

[[Second inauguration of Harry S. Truman]]

CATEGORIES: 1949, 1940s in the United States, Harry S. Truman, United States presidential inaugurations

The second inauguration of Harry S. Truman as the 33rd president of the United States happened on January 20, 1949. It was the start of the second and only full term of Harry S. Truman as president and the only term of Alben W. Barkley as vice president. 

The ceremony happened on the East Front of the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. The event was the 41st presidential inauguration.

Chief Justice Fred Vinson gave the oath of office to Truman. Stanley Reed gave the vice presidential oath to Barkley.

This was the first presidential inauguration that was shown on TV.

[[The Bandit (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s drama movies, Italian drama movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Alberto Lattuada

The Bandit (Il Bandito) is a 1946 Italian crime drama movie directed by Alberto Lattuada and starring Anna Magnani, Amedeo Nazzari, Carla Del Poggio, Carlo Campanini.

[[Dennnis McCoy (disambiguation)]]

CATEGORIES: Human name disambiguation pages

Dennis McCoy may refer to:

[[Friz Freleng]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1995 deaths, People from Kansas City, Missouri, American film producers, Jewish American writers, Screenwriters from Missouri

Friz Freleng was a creator of Porky Pg, Sylvester, and Yosemite Sam. He earned four Oscars for cartoons.

[[Città di Castello]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Umbria

Città di Castello is an Italian city in the Umbria Region. About 40,000 people lived there.

[[Datchet]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Berkshire, Civil parishes in Berkshire, Windsor and Maidenhead

Datchet is a village and civil parish in Windsor and Maidenhead, Berkshire, England. It is on the north bank of the River Thames. In 2011, there were 4913 people living in Datchet.

[[Moissac-Bellevue]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Moissac-Bellevue is a commune of 291 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[La Môle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

La Môle is a commune of 1,446 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[SF Weekly]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in the United States, English-language newspapers

SF Weekly is a weekly newspaper based in San Francisco, California. The newspaper is distributed every Thursday and it is published by the San Francisco Print Media Company. It has won national journalism awards and also hosts the SF Weekly Music Awards for recognition of musicians.

[[I Ring Doorbells]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s comedy movies, 1940s drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Frank R. Strayer

I Ring Doorbells is a 1946 American comedy-drama movie directed by Frank R. Strayer and was based on the novel of the same name by Russell Birdwell. It stars Anne Gwynne, Robert Shayne, Roscoe Karns, Pierre Watkin, John Eldredge, Jan Wiley.

[[Tortona]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Piedmont

Tortona is an Italian city in Piedmont. About 27,200 people lived there and is on the right bank of the river Scrivia.

[[Alice Bel Colle]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Piedmont

Alice Bel Colle is a comune in the Province of Alessandria in the Piedmont region in Italy.

[[Men Without Wings]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s war movies, 1940s drama movies, Czech movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by František Čáp

Men Without Wings (Muži bez křídel) is a 1946 Czech World War II drama movie directed by František Čáp and starring Gustav Nezval, Ladislav H. Struna, Jaroslav Zrotal, Vladimír Hlavatý, Jan W. Speerger.

[[Mons, Var]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Mons is a commune of 811 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Montauroux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Montauroux is a commune of 6,479 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[History of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: History of Austria

The history of Austria covers the history of Austria and its predecessor states, from the Early Stone Age to the present state. 

The name Ostarrîchi (Austria) has been in use since 996 AD. Then,  it was a margravate of the Duchy of Bavaria. Afterwards, from 1156, it became an independent duchy (later archduchy) of the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation (Heiliges Römisches Reich 962–1806).

The House of Habsburg and House of Habsburg-Lorraine (Haus Österreich) dominated Austria from 1273 to 1918. In 1806, when Emperor Francis I of Austria dissolved the Holy Roman Empire, Austria became the Austrian Empire. It was also part of the German Confederation until the Austro-Prussian War of 1866. In 1867, Austria formed a dual monarchy with Hungary: the Austro-Hungarian Empire (1867–1918). Austria was reduced to the German-speaking areas of the empire (its current frontiers), after its collapse in 1918. It adopted the name The Republic of German-Austria. However, union with Germany and the chosen country name were forbidden by the Allies at the Treaty of Versailles. This led to the creation of the First Austrian Republic (1919-1933).

Following the First Republic, Austrofascism tried to keep Austria independent from the German Reich. Engelbert Dollfuss accepted that most Austrians were German and Austrian, but wanted Austria to remain independent from Germany. In 1938, Adolf Hitler annexed Austria to the German Reich with the Anschluss. A  large majority of the Austrian people supported it. Ten years after the Second World War, Austria again became an independent republic as the Second Austrian Republic in 1955.

Austria joined the European Union in 1995.

[[The Big Heat]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 movies, 1950s crime movies, 1950s thriller movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Fritz Lang

The Big Heat is a 1953 American crime movie directed by Fritz Lang and was based on the novel of the same name by William P. McGivern. It stars Glenn Ford, Gloria Grahame, Jocelyn Brando, Alexander Scourby, Lee Marvin, Jeanette Nolan, Peter Whitney and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Plunder of the Sun]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 drama movies, 1950s adventure movies, American adventure movies, American drama movies, Mexican movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by John Farrow

Plunder of the Sun is a 1953 American Mexican adventure drama movie directed by John Farrow and was based on the 1949 novel of the same name by David F. Dodge. It stars Glenn Ford, Diana Lynn, Patricia Medina, Francis L. Sullivan, Sean McClory, Eduard Noriega and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Margie (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Henry King

Margie is a 1946 American romantic comedy movie directed by Henry King and starring Jeanne Crain, Glenn Langan, Lynn Bari, Alan Young, Barbara Lawrence, Conrad Janis, Esther Dale, Hobart Cavanaugh, Ann E. Todd, Hattie McDaniel. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox and was spun off into a television series in 1961.

[[Callimedusa tomopterna]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The tiger-striped leaf frog or tiger-striped monkey frog (Calllimedusa tomopterna) is a frog that lives in Bolivia, Peru, Colombia, Guyana, Brazil, Venezuela, French Guiana, and Ecuador, and it is most common in Suriname. Scientists have seen it up in the mountains, between 280 and 1000 meters above sea level.

The adult male frog is 4.4 cm long from nose to rear end and the adult female frog is 6.0 long.  It is green with orange color on its sides and legs.  The irises of its eyes are silver or gray.

This frog hides during the day and looks for food at night.  When it is time to lay eggs, the adult frog builds a nest out of leaves on a branch hanging over the water.  She puts 70 clear eggs at a time in the leaf nest.  When the tadpoles hatch, they fall out of the nest into the water.

[[Villa Nueva, Guatemala]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Central America, Settlements in Guatemala, Establishments in Guatemala, 18th-century establishments in North America, 1763 establishments

Villa Nueva is a city in the Guatemala Department in Guatemala. In 2018, 618,397 people lived there. It was founded on 17 April 1763.

[[Yastika Bhatia]]

CATEGORIES: Indian people, 2000 births, Cricketers

Yastika Bhatia is an Indian cricketer. She was born on 11 January 2000 in Baroda (now Vadodara), Gujarat. Her father's name is Harish Bhatia. She is an all-rounder in her cricket team. She is left hand batsman and slow left arm bowler. She is also a wicket-keeper. Yastika was inspired by Smriti Mandhana and Adam Gilchrist. She is a fan of both of them.

[[Foster City, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in San Mateo County, California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area

Foster City is a city in San Mateo County, California. As of the 2010 census, 30,567 people live in Foster City. The city is sometimes thought to be part of Silicon Valley for its local industry and its neighboring Silicon Valley cities.

[[Odile Karadec]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2021 deaths, French poets, People from Brest, France

Odile Caradec (15 February 1925 – 22 September 2021) was a French poet.

She was born in Brest.

[[Ablis]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Yvelines

Ablis is a commune. It is in Île-de-France in the Yvelines department in north-central France.

[[Stockerau]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Lower Austria

Stockerau is a town in the district of Korneuburg in the Austrian state of Lower Austria. It is the largest town in the Weinviertel region.

[[Belmont, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in San Mateo County, California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area

Belmont is a city in San Mateo County, California. It is in the San Francisco Bay Area, on the San Francisco Peninsula about halfway between San Francisco and San Jose. 25,835 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Montfort-sur-Argens]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Montfort-sur-Argens is a commune of 1,385 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Montmeyan]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Montmeyan is a commune of 546 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Berleezy]]

Berleezy is an American YouTuber who mainly uploads comedy videos which is him roasting cartoon characters. He is the founder and leader of EEZYGANG, a group that consists of fellow youtubers/friends Physicalgamerz, Joeiaco, Rico the Giant and ImDontai.

[[Coole, Marne]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Marne

Coole is a commune in the Marne department in northeastern France.

[[Aigny]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Marne

Aigny is a commune in the Marne department in northeastern France.

[[Allemanche-Launay-et-Soyer]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Marne

Allemanche-Launay-et-Soyer is a commune in the Marne department in northeastern France.

[[Hungerford]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Berkshire, Market towns in England, Civil parishes in Berkshire

Hungerford is a market town and civil parish in West Berkshire, Berkshire, England. In 2011, there were 5,767 people living in Hungerford.

[[Eastwood, Nottinghamshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Nottinghamshire, Market towns in England

Eastwood is a town in Nottinghamshire in England. It is 13 km (8 mi) northwest of Nottingham. The Midland Railway was created here and it is where D. H. Lawrence was born.

[[Foligno]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Umbria

Foligno is an Italian city in the Umbria Region. It has about 56,000 people living there.

[[Heanor]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Derbyshire

Heanor is a town in Derbyshire in England. It is 13 km (8 mi) northwest of Derby.

[[La Motte, Var]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

La Motte is a commune of 2,833 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Le Muy]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Le Muy is a commune of 9,281 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Nans-les-Pins]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Var

Nans-les-Pins is a commune of 4,802 people (2018). It is in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur in the Var department in southeast France.

[[Borough of Broxtowe]]

CATEGORIES: Nottinghamshire

Broxtowe is a district with borough status in Nottinghamshire, England. The towns of Beeston, Attenborough, Awsworth, Bramcote, Brinsley, Chilwell, Cossall, Eastwood, Giltbrook, Greasley, Kimberley, Moorgreen, Newthorpe, Nuthall, Stapleford, Strelley, Swingate, Toton, Trowell and Watnall are in the borough.

[[Beeston, Nottinghamshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Nottinghamshire

Beeston is a town in Borough of Broxtowe, Nottinghamshire, England. It is 3.4 southwest of Nottingham.

[[Ziyara]]

CATEGORIES: Travel, Companies of India, 2018 establishments in India

Ziyara Network is an Indian travel company based in Ajmer, Rajasthan. It has many subsidiaries in different countries Including, Nigeria, Australia and Indonesia.

[[DaBaby]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, African American musicians, Interscope Records artists, Singers from North Carolina, American rap musicians from North Carolina, African-American rappers, 21st-century African American people

Jonathan Lyndale Kirk (born December 22, 1991), known professionally as DaBaby (formerly known as Baby Jesus), is an American rapper, singer, and songwriter. His debut album, Baby on Baby was released in 2019.

[[Government of National Salvation]]

CATEGORIES: History of Serbia

The Government of National Salvation was an government in Serbia from 1941 to 1944. It is also called Nedić's government, or  Nedić's regime. It was a puppet-state of Nazi Germany, who had occupied Serbia. The government operated from 29 August 1941 to 4 October 1944. Unlike the government in Croatia at the time, this government never had any international recognition. 

Many Serbs tolerated the regime. A part of the poluation actively supported it. Most Serbs found the regime unpopuilar:  they supported one of the two factions, the Yugoslav Partisans or the royalist Chetniks. Both fractions were tohugh to be connected w to the Allied Powers. The Prime Minister throughout was General Milan Nedić. The Government of National Salvation was evacuated from Belgrade through Budapest to Kitzbühel in the first week of October 1944 before the German withdrawal from Serbia was complete.

[[Sans (Undertale)]]

Sans is a fictional character from Undertale. While usually a comic relief character and NPC, he is also the final boss if the player tries the "genocide route" of the game. His name comes from the Comic Sans font, which is used for most of his in-game dialogue. He also appears in Deltarune.

[[Algona, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Algona is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Black Diamond, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Black Diamond is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Burien, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Burien is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Carnation, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Carnation is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Covington, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Covington is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Des Moines, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Des Moines is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Duvall, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Duvall is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Enumclaw, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Enumclaw is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Kenmore, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Kenmore is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Lake Forest Park, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Lake Forest Park is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Newcastle, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Newcastle is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Normandy Park, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Normandy Park is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Sammamish, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Sammamish is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Snoqualmie, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Snoqualmie is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Woodinville, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Woodinville is a city in King County, Washington, United States.

[[Edith Rigby]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1950 deaths, British feminists, People with Parkinson's disease

Edith Rigby (nee Rayner) (18 October 1872 – 23 July 1950) was an English suffragette. She founded a night school in Preston. It was called St Peter's School and its aim was to educate women and girls. Later she became an important activist. She was sent to prison seven times and committed several acts of arson (illegally setting things on fire).

[[Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: Afghanistan

[[History of Catalonia]]

CATEGORIES: Catalonia

Catalonia was first settled during the Middle Palaeolithic era. The area was occupied by the Iberians and Greeks established several colonies on the coast before the Roman conquest. It was the first area of Hispania conquered by the Romans. It then came under Visigothic rule after the collapse of the western part of the Roman Empire. In 718,  the Umayyad Caliphate occupied the area and became a part of Muslim ruled al-Andalus. The Frankish Empire conquered the area from the Muslims. It created a buffer zone of Christian counties against Islamic rule known as the Marca Hispanica. In the 10th century the County of Barcelona became progressively independent from Frankish rule.

In 1137, Ramon Berenguer IV, Count of Barcelona accepted King Ramiro II of Aragon's proposal to marry Queen Petronila. Thus they united the dinasties of the County of Barcelona with the Kingdom of Aragon and they created the Crown of Aragon. Meanwhile, the County of Barcelona and the other Catalan counties adopted a common polity known as Principality of Catalonia. Catalonia contributed to the expansion of the Crown's trade and military, most significantly their navy. The crisis of the 14th century, the end of the reign of House of Barcelona and a civil war (1462–1472) weakened the role of the Principality in Crown and international affairs.

The marriage of Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile in 1469 created a dynastic union between the Crowns of Aragon and Castile. However, both kingdoms kept their own laws, institutions, borders and currency. In 1492 the Spanish colonization of the Americas began, political power began to shift away towards Castile. The economic crisis, the peasants' revolt and tensions between Catalan institutions and the Monarchy caused the Reapers' War (1640–1652). The Principality of Catalonia maintained its political status, but it lost it after the War of Spanish Succession (1701–1714). Following Catalan surrender on 11 September 1714, the king Philip V of Bourbon, inspired by the model of France, imposed a unifying administration across Spain. He suppressed the Crown of Aragon and enacted the Nueva Planta decrees, banning the main Catalan political institutions and rights. These led to the eclipse of Catalan as a language of government and literature. Catalonia experienced economic growth. This was reinforced in the late 18th century when Cádiz's trade monopoly with American colonies ended.

In the 19th century Catalonia was very affected by the Napoleonic and Carlist Wars. The Napoleonic occupation and subsequent war in Spain began a period of political and economic turmoil. In the second third of the century, Catalonia became a center of industrialization. Thanks to its wealth from the industrial expansion, Catalonia experienced a cultural renaissance. This happened at the same time as nationalism and several workers movements (particularly anarchism) appeared.

In the 20th century, Catalonia enjoyed and lost varying degrees of autonomy. The Second Spanish Republic established Catalan self-governance and the official use of the Catalan language. The Republican defeat established the dictatorship of Francisco Franco. During this time, the autonomy was suppressed. Between 1959 and 1974 Spain experienced an economic expansion known as the Spanish Miracle. Catalonia prospered as Spain's most important industrial and tourist area. In 1975 Franco died, bringing his regime to an end. The new democratic Spanish constitution of 1978 recognised Catalonia's autonomy and language. It regained considerable self-government. In the 2010s there have been growing calls for Catalan independence.

[[Gorgan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Golestan Province, Hyrcania, Iranian provincial capitals

Gorgan (گرگان ɡoɾˈɡɒːn; also romanized as Gorgān, Gurgān, and Gurgan), formerly Esterabad  (استرآباد ʔæsˌtæɾɒːˈbɒːd; also romanized as Astarābād, Asterabad, and Esterābād), is the capital city of Golestan Province, Iran. It lies approximately 400 to the north east of Tehran, some 30 away from the Caspian Sea. In the 2006 census; its population was 269,226, in 73,702 families.

[[Gomishan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Gomishan (گميشان, also Romanized as Gomīshān and Gumshān; formerly, Gomish Tepe (گميش تپه), also Romanized as Gomesh Tappeh, Gomīsh Tappeh, and Gumish Tepe; also formerly known as Gomish Tepe Jik (گُميش تَپِّه جيك), also Romanized as Gomīsh Tappeh Jīk; Kümüş depe) is a city and capital of Gomishan District, in Torkaman County, Golestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census its population was 15,639, in 3,236 families.

The city's Turkmen name, Kümüş depe, means "Silver Hill".

[[Archibald Bulloch]]

CATEGORIES: 1730 births, 1777 deaths, 18th-century American politicians, American people, Governors of Georgia (U.S. state), Lawyers

[[Kya Kehna]]

CATEGORIES: Indian movies

Kya Kehna (So well Said) is a 2000 Indian Hindi romantic drama film, and it was written by Honey Irani, directed by Kundan Shah and released on 19 May 2000. The movie stars Preity Zinta, Saif Ali Khan, Chandrachur Singh, Farida Jalal and Anupam Kher. Kya Kehna received positive reviews and was successful at the box office.

[[Rishton Ka Manjha]]

Rishton Ka Manjha is an Indian Hindi television serial which is broadcast on Hindi General Entertainment Channel Zee Tv and is also available on the digital platform ZEE5, even before TV telecast. It was premiered on 30 July 2021. It stars Ayan Nayak, Aanchal Goswami and Krushal Ahuja. The series was produced by Susanta Das under the banner Tent Cinemas  of  and is a remake of Bengali serial Deep Jele Jai

The story mainly revolves around Arjun and Diya's life.

The story mainly revolves around Arjun and Diya's life.

[[Alba, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Alba is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Asbury, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Asbury is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Carl Junction, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Carl Junction is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Carterville, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Carterville is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Distributed ledger]]

CATEGORIES: Databases

A distributed ledger is a database that is consensually shared and synchronized across multiple sites, institutions, or geographies, accessible by multiple people. It allows transactions to have public "witnesses". The participant at each node of the network can access the recordings shared across that network and can own an identical copy of it. Any changes or additions made to the ledger are reflected and copied to all participants in a matter of seconds or minutes.

[[Duenweg, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Duenweg is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Jasper, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Jasper is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[La Russell, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

La Russell is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Neck City, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Neck City is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Oronogo, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Oronogo is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Purcell, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Purcell is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Reeds, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Reeds is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Sarcoxie, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Sarcoxie is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Waco, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Waco is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Webb City, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Webb City is a city in Jasper County, Missouri, United States.

[[Ash Grove, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Ash Grove is a city in Greene County, Missouri, United States.

[[Fair Grove, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Fair Grove is a city in Greene County, Missouri, United States.

[[Walnut Grove, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Walnut Grove is a city in Greene County, Missouri, United States.

[[Wiggins, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mississippi, County seats in Mississippi

Wiggins is the county seat of Stone County, Mississippi, United States.

[[Drew, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mississippi

Drew is a city in Sunflower County, Mississippi, United States.

[[Ruleville, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mississippi

Ruleville is a city in Sunflower County, Mississippi, United States.

[[Senatobia, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mississippi, County seats in Mississippi

Senatobia is the county seat of Tate County, Mississippi, United States.

[[Ripley, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mississippi, County seats in Mississippi

Ripley is the county seat of Tippah County, Mississippi, United States.

[[Iuka, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mississippi, County seats in Mississippi

Iuka is the county seat of Tishomingo County, Mississippi, United States.

[[Tunica, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Mississippi, County seats in Mississippi

Tunica is the county seat of Tunica County, Mississippi, United States.

[[New Albany, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mississippi, County seats in Mississippi

New Albany is the county seat of Union County, Mississippi, United States.

[[Image .jpg]]

CATEGORIES: Graphics

A picture, also called an image, is a group of coloured points on a flat surface that looks the same as something else. For example, a picture can look the same as an object or a person. Pictures can also be drawings, paintings or photographs. People who make such pictures are called artists, photographers or painters.  Pictures are very helpful.  Sometimes people say pictures are worth a thousand words.  Pictures and diagrams can be used to explain how to do things, and thus a picture is a kind of tool. A moment captured in an image.

An image is something that can be seen, but it is not physically there.  It can be a photograph, a painting, or a picture on a television or computer screen.  A lens can make an image of an object appear somewhere else.  Cameras use this to make the image that becomes a photograph.

[[Sky hook (structure)]]

Sky hook is a proposed structure that is made of a rotating satellite with a very long tether on one side and a smaller tether which has a counterweight to balance the satellite. It was put forward so that the payloads can be transported using a cable cars instead of using rockets to transport the payload

[[The Snows of Kilimanjaro (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 drama movies, 1950s adventure movies, 1950s romantic drama movies, American adventure movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on short stories, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Henry King, Movies directed by Roy Ward Baker

The Snows of Kilimanjaro is a 1952 American romantic adventure drama movie directed by Henry King and Roy Ward Baker and was based on the 1936 short story of the same name by Ernest Hemingway. It stars Gregory Peck, Ava Gardener, Susan Hayward, Leonard Carey, Helene Stanley, Torin Thatcher, Leo G. Carroll, Marcel Dalio and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was nominated for 2 Academy Awards in 1953.

[[Department for Business, Innovation & Skills]]

CATEGORIES: Government agencies of the United Kingdom, Ministries, 2009 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2010s disestablishments in the United Kingdom

The Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (DBIS) is the department for economic growth. The department invests in skills and education to promote trade, boost innovation and help people to start and grow a business. BIS also protects consumers and reduces the impact of regulation.

[[Northwest Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: Metropolitan areas of the United States, Arkansas

Northwest Arkansas is a metropolitan area in the Arkansas region. It is located within the Ozark Mountains.

[[Michael Hummel]]

Michael Hummel (born 1996) is an American entrepreneur from Olympia, Washington, USA.

In 2020, he  built an agency from 0-$106,000/month in 10 months using organic outreach methods to acquire new clients every dayhttps://www.yahoo.com/now/michael-hummel-built-106-000-160000272.html. He has also appeared in Disrupt Magazine and Entrepreneur.

[[Bedelia (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, British drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Lance Comfort

Bedelia is a 1946 British drama movie directed by Lance Comfort and was based on the 1945 novel of the same name by Vera Caspary. It stars Margaret Lockwood, Ian Hunter, Barry K. Barnes, Anne Crawford, Beatrice Varley, Louise Hampton, Jill Esmond, Julien Mitchell, Barbara Blair, Olga Lindo.

[[Women for Afghan Women]]

CATEGORIES: Afghanistan

Women for Afghan Women (often shortened to WAW)  is an organization that was founded in 2001. It wants to help women in Afghanistan. It is independent of the government.  It is the largest non-government Afghan women's rights organization in the world. It is dedicated to protecting the rights of Afghan women and girls. The staff are mostly Afghans. WAW adopts a community-based approach. For example, they give workshops about women's rights according to Islamic law. WAW opened what it called family guidance centers: there, women can ask for help, if they have problems at home. They also get counseling, for example, if the women  are the victims of domestic violence. If there is a danger to the health or the life of the woman, the woman is sent to a women's shelter. In the shelters, women can talk to layers who help them fight for their rights. They can also get teaching in different skills. When these services are not enough, WAW also helps the women get a divorce. As well as the women, their children can also get a basic education in these centers. 

Women in Afghanistan have built houses for women as shelters in most of the provinces in Afghanistan such as in Kabul, Kapisa, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kunduz, Faryab, and Saripul. The vision of the organization is to help the women get independent, WAW wants the women to participate in different areas of society:  in  politics, cultural reforms and  social development. 

According to WAW, there are many rules and norms which stand in the way of the women getting more freedoms.  To achieve their goals, the organisation also relies on religion, and the social context these women are in. It wants to  establish a shelter for women in every province in the country. Accorording to WAW, the Taliban have become more violent, because there were freign troops in Afghanistan.  WAW also teaches its members how to read and write. Children enter the organization's kindergarten to learn reading, writing, doing art, sing songs, and playing games.  Women for Afghan Women uses the Bill of Afghan women in order to implement women's right and meet the needs of woman in Afghanistan. The Bill of Rights was signed by the president of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai and it was handed to all women who participated the third yearly conference of the organization.

When it comes to freedom, Afghan girls and women are in a bad position: In 2012, Afghanistan was nominated the most dangerous country that a girl can be born in. Many women are poor, and getting health care is difficullt for them. This is mainly caused by decades of civil war. Because there was no economy that worked well, this made it difficult for women to live there. When a woman with children is sentenced to go to prison, she usually takes her children to prison as well.  WAW's Children's Support Center (CSC) raises money to get children out of prison. WAW has a program that helps uneducated children meet the criteria to enter a  local school.  Afghan women are usually afraid to speak about  the mistreatment that they face every day in their lives. WAW's biggest projects is to give these women a voice, and to build the self-esteem of Afghan women who are used to burying their emotions and their opinions. Ten percent of the Afghan women receive this aid, and can express their opinions in front of millions of  people.

WAW also operate halfway houses, for women who have just left prison, and have nowhere else to go. In these halfway houses, WAW also helps these women find a new job, and a place to live. 

[[Callimedusa atelopoides]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The toady leaf frog or terrestrial monkey frog (Calllimedusa atelopoides) is a frog that lives in Bolivia and Peru, but scientists think it may one day live in Colombia and Ecuador too.

Unlike most tree frogs, this frog does not live in the water at all when it is an adult.  It is brown in color and lives in trees.

The adult male frog is 3.7 cm long from nose to rear end and the adult female frog is 4.5 long.  It is green with orange color on its sides and legs.  The irises of its eyes are silver or gray.

The male frog sounds like "wort" when he sings for the female frog.  When it is time to lay eggs, the female frog lays 20 eggs at a time on a leaf and then folds the leaf around the eggs. When the tadpoles hatch, they fall out of the nest into the water.

[[Ali Landi]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 births, 2021 deaths, People from Tehran, Altruism, Iranian humanitarians, Humanitarian aid

Ali Landi (علی لندی) (2006 – September 23, 2021), known as the devoted teenager of Izeh, Phoenix Izeh, the hero of the solar eighties and the national hero of Iran, who saved the lives of two elderly women in a fire at a neighbor's house at the age of 15 and suffered severe burns.He saved the lives of two elderly women and suffered third-degree burns himself, and finally died on the evening of October 1, 2021, due to an infection in the blood and severe respiratory problems.

[[Department for Communities & Local Government]]

The Department for Communities & Local Government (DCLG) is a United Kingdom government department who works to move decision-making power from central government to local councils. This helps put communities in charge of planning, increases accountability and helps citizens to see how their money is being spent.

[[Something So Strong]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 songs

Something So Strong is a song by Australian band Crowded House. It was the final single from their debut album. It was released in April 1987.

[[List of Universal Television programs]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of television series, Universal Pictures

Here is a partial list of television series and notable made-for-TV movies produced by Universal Television, at one time one of the most prolific producers of TV programs in the United States.

[[DigitaOS]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

DigitaOS is a operating system for digital cameras made by Flashpoint Technology. The first device to use it is the Kodak DC220, released on 1998-05-20. It was known for being able to run third party software, which was not common until ones running Android came out in the early 2010s.

Programs can be written in a scripting language named Digita Script, which is JIT compiled, or compiled, written in C using an official SDK. Abstraction is used so programs can run on most cameras, despite any camera model differences. DigitaOS runs the GUI and basic camera functionality.

Doom and MAME are the best known ports.

[[Stanley and Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 American television series debuts, American animated television series

Stanley and Martin is an American adult animated television sitcom created by Ricardo Fitch and produced by ViacomCBS Domestic Media Networks. The series is inspired by Ricardo Fitch own "chaotic life growing up in a huge two brothers", and follows with two boys named Stanley, Martin. The episodes was produced using stick figure.  

[[Wait Till the Sun Shines, Nellie (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 drama movies, American drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Henry King

Wait Till the Sun Shines, Nellie is a 1952 American drama movie directed by Henry King and starring Jean Peters, David Wayne, Hugh Marlowe, Albert Dekker, Helene Stanley, Alan Hale, Jr.. It was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Unicode Consortium]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

The Unicode Consortium is a non-profit organization that develops and publishes the Unicode standard. Anyone who pays the membership fee can become a member.  Many big computing companies (such as IBM, Microsoft, Apple, Oracle and Google) are members of the consortium. 

Mark Davis, who works for Google, is the president of the Consortium.

The Unicode Consortium also works with other large organisations, such as ISO. ISO publishes a norm for encoding characters, called ISO 10646, which corresponds to the Unicode encoding.

[[Personality Kid]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s adventure movies, 1940s drama movies, American adventure movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by George Sherman

Personality Kid is a 1946 American romantic adventure drama movie directed by George Sherman and starring Anita Louise. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[The Mitchells vs. the Machines]]

CATEGORIES: 2021 movies

The Mitchells vs. the Machines is a 2021 American animated movie made by Netflix. It stars the voices of Abbi Jacobson, Danny McBride, Maya Rudolph, Eric André, Olivia Colman, Fred Armisen, Beck Bennett, John Legend, Chrissy Teigen, Blake Griffin, and Conan O'Brien.

[[Tōgō Heihachirō]]

CATEGORIES: 1848 births, 1934 deaths, Recipients of the Order of the Rising Sun

Tōgō Heihachirō (Japanese:東郷 平八郎, 27 January 1848 – 30 May 1934) was an admiral of the fleet in the Imperial Japanese Navy, he is well-known as one of the Japanese Navy Heroes.

[[The Harvey Girls (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s musical movies, 1940s romance movies, American romance movies, American musical movies, Movies based on books, MGM movies, Movies directed by George Sidney

The Harvey Girls is a 1946 American romantic musical movie directed by George Sidney and was based on the 1942 novel of the same name by Samuel Hopkins Adams. It stars Judy Garland, John Hodiak, Ray Bolger, Angela Lansbury, Preston Foster, Chill Wills, Virginia O'Brien, Kenny Baker, Marjorie Main, Cyd Charisse and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was nominated for 2 Oscars and won an Academy Award in 1947.

[[The Loves of Carmen (1948 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s adventure movies, 1940s drama movies, 1940s romance movies, American adventure movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Charles Vidor

The Loves of Carmen is a 1948 American romantic adventure drama movie directed by Charles Vidor and is based on the 1845 novella Carmen by Prosper Mérimée. It stars Rita Hayworth, Glenn Ford, Ron Randell, Victor Jory, Luther Adler, Arnold Moss, Joseph Buloff and was distributed by Columbia Pictures. It was nominated for an Academy Award in 1949 and is the remake of the 1927 movie of the same name.

[[Princess Sarah]]

Princess Sarah is an animated television series, part of Nippon Animation's World Masterpiece Theater, The series itself is popular in The Philippines, France, South Korea, Southeast Asia, India, Taiwan, Germany, Italy, Spain, Poland and the Arab World.

[[Happy Tree Friends (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 American television series debuts, 2006 American television series endings, 2006 Canadian television series debuts, 2006 Canadian television series endings, Happy Tree Friends

Happy Tree Friends is an music television series that was broadcast from September 25 to December 25, 2006 on G4 in the United States and the reuploaded on the Peacock streaming service. With a total of thirteen episodes that were aired, the show is based on the web series of the same name, created and developed by Aubrey Ankrum, Rhode Montijo, Kenn Navarro, and Warren Graff for Universal Television, while the opening and end credits were produced by Ghostbot.

In premises akin of children's shows, the series is a juxtaposition of cute cartoon anthropomorphic forest animals, who are suddenly subjected to extreme graphic violence.

[[List of Happy Tree Friends episodes]]

CATEGORIES: Happy Tree Friends, Lists of web series episodes, Lists of American music television series episodes, NBCUniversal

Happy Tree Friends is an animated series created and developed by Rhode Montijo, Kenn Navarro, and Warren Graff for Universal Television. A total of six seasons of the series have been released: five seasons on the internet, and one season on television. 

In 1999, the crew began the series with a pilot episode, named "Banjo Frenzy", which featured a blue dinosaur, a sky blue squirrel, a yellow rabbit, and a purple beaver. The first official episode was named "Spin Fun Knowin' Ya!", which aired on Christmas Eve of that same year, and featured later versions of the dinosaur, rabbit, squirrel, and beaver, and – from that point on – the crew began introducing new characters to the show. It quickly became an internet phenomenon featuring millions of visits per episode. In 2006, the Happy Tree Friends television series aired on G4 in the United States. It also aired on G4 in 2006 and Peacock in December 2022.

A spin-off called Ka-Pow! debuted in September 2008. In 2010, after airing fifteen episodes for the third web season, a hiatus began, in which there were only Break shorts airing with a subliminal message at the end of each, reading "Happy Tree Friends is dead!". This situation concerned many fans because they thought that the series were going to end soon. The writers confirmed that they were playing a joke on the fact that the characters die a lot, making a pun phrase with the word "dead". The hiatus ended on December 8, 2011, allowing the series to return once again with the fifteenth episode of the third season, named "Clause for Concern".

In addition to the show's five seasons and a spin-off, there have been some special episodes and shorts. These include eleven "Smoochies", ten "Kringles", thirteen "Break" shorts, five "Love Bites", and sixteen other irregular episodes that are unindexed. The "Smoochie" shorts involve three different items being dropped next to a main character, only for them to be killed in three different ways, each regarding the item. These have been adapted into the Happy Tree Friends website where one can choose an item to drop. The "Kringle" shorts are Christmas-themed shorts that feature the main characters doing various Christmas-related tasks, only to be killed in various ways. The "Love Bites" were Valentine's Day-themed shorts, that went with the basic structure of a Happy Tree Friends episode. The "Break" shorts were produced in 2008, when no new episodes were produced until the following year. A new break short debuted in 2009.

[[I Choose You]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 songs

"I Choose You" is a song by Grammy-nominated singer/songwriter Keyshia Cole. It is the third official single from her top 10 album Woman to Woman (2012). It was sent to urban radio on August 23, 2013. The song was produced by Jack Splash and written by Elijah Blake.

[[Paris, Texas (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 drama movies, 1980s road movies, German drama movies, French drama movies, American drama movies, British drama movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Wim Wenders

Paris, Texas is a 1984 German French American British drama movie directed by Wim Wenders and with the music by Ry Cooder. It stars Harry Dean Stanton, Bernhard Wicki, Dean Stockwell, Hunter Carson, Nastassja Kinski, John Lurie and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Jumper (2008 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American movies, English-language movies, Movies based on American novels

Jumper is an 2008 science fiction action movie based on the 1992 loose novel of the same name, by Steven Gould.

The movie is directed by Doug Liman, and starring by Hayden Christensen, Jamie Bell, Rachel Bilson, Max Thieriot, AnnaSophia Robb, Diane Lane, Michael Rooker, and also Samuel L. Jackson. The movie was follows a young man capable of teleporting as he is chased by a secret society to defeat him.

[[DreamWorks Classics]]

CATEGORIES: DreamWorks Classics, 2000 establishments in New York City, American companies established in 2000, DreamWorks Animation, Entertainment companies based in New York City, Mass media companies based in New York City, Mass media companies established in 2000, 2007 mergers and acquisitions, 2009 mergers and acquisitions, 2012 mergers and acquisitions

Classic Media, LLC, doing business as Classic Media, is an American entertainment company owned by DreamWorks Animation, which is a subsidiary of Universal Studios. It was founded as Classic Media in 2000 by Eric Ellenbogen and John Engelman. The studio's library consists of acquired intellectual property catalogs and character brands, as well as the licensing rights for various third-party properties. In 2012, DreamWorks Animation acquired Classic Media from its then-owner, Boomerang Media.

[[IEA]]

IEA can be:

[[The Three Daring Daughters]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s musical movies, American musical movies, MGM movies

The Three Daring Daughters (UK title: The Birds and the Bees) is a 1948 American musical movie directed by Fred M. Wilcox and starring Jeanette MacDonald, José Iturbi, Jane Powell, Ann E. Todd, Harry Davenport, Edward Arnold, Moyna Macgill and distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Sid and Nancy]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 movies

Sid and Nancy was a 1986 British film about the life of the Sex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious. Sid was known for murdering Nancy in 1978.

[[Deadfall (1968 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 movies, 1960s crime movies, British crime movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies

Deadfall is a 1968 British crime movie directed by Bryan Forbes and was based on the 1965 novel of the same name by Desmond Cory. It stars Michael Caine, Vladek Sheybal, Emilio Rodríguez, David Buck, Eric Portman, Nanette Newman, Leonard Rossiter and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[The Moses Code]]

CATEGORIES: Documentary movies, American movies, 2008 movies

The Moses Code is a 2008 esoteric documentary. It was produced by Drew Heriot, who already worked as a director on The Secret, the predecessor of The Moses Code.

The world premiere took place on 5. April 2008, as part of a private cinema screening, in the presence of director James Twyman, producer Drew Heriot and James Van Praagh, one of the speakers shown in the film.

[[Shivani Kataria]]

CATEGORIES: Indian people, 1997 births, Swimmers, Swimming

Shivani Kataria is an Indian swimmer. She was born on 27 September 1997 in Haryana. She competes in the women's 200m freestyle. She represented India at 2016 Summer Olympics. She has also won many medals at South Asian Games and Asian Age Group Championship.

[[Lumo Energy]]

Lumo Energy, is an Australian energy retailer from Victoria and South Australia. Lumo Energy is owned by Snowy Hydro since 2014. In October 2017, the business had almost 500,000 customers and a workforce of just under 500 people.cn

Victoria Electricity, a trading name of Infratil, secured an electricity retail licence for Victoria in August 2002 and the retailing of electricity started in February 2004.

[[Ningombam Prem]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei people

Ningombam Prem is an Indian Manipuri creator of a humanoid robot, which is a replica of the Hollywood movie Iron Man. He is nicknamed as the Tony Stark of Manipur.

[[Consulting firm]]

CATEGORIES: Business

A consulting firm or simply consultancy is a professional service firm that gives expert advice for a fee. Consulting firms may have one employee or thousands; they may consult in different topics, for example, management, engineering, and so on. Management consultants typically work with company executives and give them generalists and industry-specific experts, usually trained in management or in business schools. Management consultant usually give recommendations for achieving the goals of a company or helps to lead a project of a company. Many consulting firms not only give the recommendations, but also help with implementation, either by the consultants or by technicians and other experts. This is called outsourcing.

[[One UI]]

One UI is a user interface made by Samsung. It is based on Android 9.0 "Pie". It is the successor of Samsung Experience. It is first released in 2019 for Samsung Galaxy S10 devices.

[[Veronica (search engine)]]

CATEGORIES: Search engines

Veronica was a Gopher search engine, released in November 1992 by Steven Foster and Fred Barrie at the University of Nevada, Reno.

It was often updated to have results for almost everything on thousands of Gopher servers. Most popular Gopher menus could access it. Veronica is gone,May 2018 but there are local versions and Veronica-2, a full rewrite.January 2017

[[Callimedusa perinesos]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The orange-spotted leaf frog (Callimedusa perinesos) is a frog that lives in Ecuador and Colombia. Scientists have seen it up in the mountains, between 1410 and 1740 meters above sea level.

The pupils of this frog's eyes are vertical: they go up and down and open side to side.  This frog's Latin name comes from the purple color on its skin.  It is mostly green in color, with white spots on its sides.

The adult male frog is 4.6 to 5.2 cm long from nose to rear end and the adult female frog is 6.2 to 6.5 long.

When it is time to lay eggs, the female frog lays 52 to 62 eggs at a time on a leaf and then folds the leaf around the eggs.  She puts jelly on the eggs to hold the nest together and to stop the eggs from drying out.  When the tadpoles hatch, they fall out of the nest into the water.

[[Deepti Sati]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Indian beauty pageant winners, Female models from Mumbai, Indian film actresses, Actresses in Malayalam cinema, 21st-century Indian actresses, Actresses from Mumbai, St. Xavier's College, Mumbai alumni, Actresses in Telugu cinema, Actresses in Kannada cinema, Actresses in Tamil cinema, Year of birth missing (living people)

Deepti Sati is an Indian film actress and model who predominantly appears in Malayalam films. She has also appeared in Kannada, Marathi and Telugu films. She was crowned Miss Kerala in 2014.

[[Fournet-Blancheroche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Doubs

Fournet-Blancheroche is a commune. It is in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in the Doubs department in east France.

[[Schwechat]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Lower Austria

Schwechat is a town in the district of Bruck an der Leitha in the Austrian state of Lower Austria, southeast of Vienna. In 2018, 18,026 people lived there.

It is known for the Vienna International Airport and Schwechater beer.

Schwechat is named after the river Schwechat, which flows through the centre of town.

[[Traun]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Upper Austria

Traun is the fifth-largest city in Upper Austria. It is in the district of Linz-Land. About 24,000 people lived there.

[[Nossa Senhora do Socorro]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Sergipe

Nossa Senhora do Socorro is an Brazilian city in the state of Sergipe. 185,706 people lived here in 2020 and its area is 155.02 km².

[[Herzogenaurach]]

Herzogenaurach is a town in the district of Erlangen-Höchstadt in Bavaria in Germany. It is best known for being the headquarters of two major international sportswear companies Adidas and Puma.

[[Behaviour-changing parasite]]

CATEGORIES: Parasitism

Behaviour-changing parasites are parasites with two or more hosts. They cause changes in the behaviour of one of their hosts. This has the effect of improving their chances of reproduction. 

They make the first host more likely to be eaten by a predator. Then the parasite reproduces sexually in the predator. Examples can be found in bacteria, protozoa, viruses, and animals. 

Parasites may also change the host behaviour to increase the protection to the parasites or their offspring. The term bodyguard manipulation may be used for such mechanisms.

Example: a parasitic worm is eaten by an amphipod. The worm changes the behaviour of the host amphipod. The changes make it more likely that the amphipod is eaten by fish, where it reproduces.  The induced behavioral change in the host thus leads to the parasite's increased success in completing its life cycle.

[[Ahorn, Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Ahorn is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Source Sans]]

Source Sans is a sans-serif font that was designed by Paul D. Hunt. It is created in 2012.

[[5K resolution]]

CATEGORIES: Display technology

5K resolution talks about a horizontal display resolution of about 5,000 pixels. In monitors and consumer media, 5120x2880 is a common 5K standard. The 5K used for iMac's display is 5120 x 2880 px.

[[Roth, Bavaria]]

Roth is a town in Bavaria, Germany. It is the capital of the district of Roth.

[[Varna, Bulgaria]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Bulgaria

Varna (Варна) is a port city on the Black Sea in Bulgaria and is the third-most populous city in the country, after Sofia and Plovdiv. In 2017, the city has 336,505 people.

[[Scheveningen]]

CATEGORIES: Districts, The Hague

Scheveningen is one of the eight districts of The Hague, Netherlands. Scheveningen is a modern seaside resort with a long sandy beach and a pier. It is 6 kilometers away from the center.

The harbour is used both for fishing and tourism.

[[Plovdiv]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Bulgaria

Plovdiv (Пловдив) is the second-largest city in Bulgaria. 346,893 people lived here in 2018. It was the European Capital of Culture in 2019.

[[Beoncy Laishram]]

CATEGORIES: Meitei people, Transgender and transsexual people, Indian activists

Beoncy Laishram, formerly known as Boboi Laishram, is the first transwoman from North East India to become a doctor. As of 2021, she is the only transgender doctor from Manipur state. She has become a symbol of hope for trans women in Manipur.  In Manipur, there is a lot of discrimination against transwomen. Laishram is a post-operative transwomen. She had sex reassignment surgery in Puducherry. 

Laishram is a Resident Medical Officer (RMO) at the Shija Hospitals and Research Institute in Imphal.

[[Burgas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Bulgaria

Burgas (Бургас) is an Bulgarian city on the Black Sea coast. It is the fourth-most populous city in the country, after Sofia, Plovdiv, and Varna. About 200,000 people lived there and is an important industrial, transport, cultural and tourist centre.

[[Stara Zagora]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Bulgaria

Stara Zagora (Стара Загора) is a city in Bulgaria. About 154,000 people lived there. It is in the historical region of Thrace.

[[Bitcoin Global Media]]

CATEGORIES: Publishing companies of the United States

Bitcoin Global Media (trading as Bitcoin Global Media Holding Co. Ltd.) operates as a media company. It offers internet television, mobile television, multimedia mobile radios, broadcasting, publishing, newspapers, magazines, media management, media brand management, resources cooperation, technical services, copyright exploitation, and other services.

[[Penske Media Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Publishing companies of the United States

Penske Media Corporation is an American publishing and information services company. It is based in Los Angeles and New York City. It is the publishing company of at least 20 print and digital media including Variety, Rolling Stone, WWD, Deadline Hollywood, Boy Genius Report etc.

[[Ruse, Bulgaria]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Bulgaria

Ruse (also transliterated as Rousse, Russe; Русе) is a city in northern Bulgaria with about 150,000 people living in it. It is a port on the Danube river and is an important cultural and industrial center.

[[Ministry of Justice (United Kingdom)]]

CATEGORIES: Ministries, 2007 establishments in the United Kingdom, Government agencies of the United Kingdom

The Ministry of Justice (MOJ) works to protect the public and reduce reoffending, and to provide a more effective, transparent and responsive criminal justice system for victims and the public.

[[Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Iceland

Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson (born 20 April 1962) is an Icelandic politician. He was the Prime Minister of Iceland from April 2016 to January 2017. He is the chairman of the Progressive Party.

[[White Sands National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in the United States, Geography of New Mexico

White Sands National Park is an American national park located in the state of New Mexico. It is surrounded by the White Sands Missile Range. The park covers 145,762 in the Tularosa Basin. The park has a field of white sand dunes made of gypsum crystals. It is the largest of its kind on Earth, with a depth of about 30, dunes as tall as 60, and about 4.5 billion short tons (4.1 billion metric tons) of gypsum sand.

[[Rhonda Dent]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1978 births, Canadian television actors, Canadian actors, Actors from British Columbia

Rhonda Paige Dent (born in 1978 in Langley, British Columbia) is a Canadian actress.

finished her theatrical studies in 1998 before starting her professional acting career in 1999 at the age of 20. Rhonda is the daughter of Anne(nurse) & Ronald (Lawyer). Rhonda's father Ron, was a World War Two veteran, and died of a brain tumor in 1996 when Rhonda was 17 she is the seventh of eight children from her father.

Rhonda's onscreen credits include an impressive range of sci-fi episodic and made for tv movies, short films and the re-occurring role of Lanie Snider in ABC's That Was Then. Most recently the role of Judy Wood on "Almost Human" Rhonda is also known as an award winning photographer.

[[The Little Giant (1933 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 movies, 1930s crime movies, 1930s comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, Warner Bros. movies, Movies directed by Roy Del Ruth

The Little Giant is a 1933 American crime comedy movie directed by Roy Del Ruth and starring Edward G. Robinson, Mary Astor, Helen Vinson, Russell Hopton, Kenneth Thomson, Shirley Grey, Berton Churchill, Donald Dillaway. It was distributed by Warner Bros.

[[Tech Talk2]]

Tech Talk2 is a Sylhet based website designer and developer & Digital Marketing Expert. He help several small business to digitalization. He is one of the youngest entrepreneur in Bangladesh.

[[Singac, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in New Jersey

Singac is a census-designated place (CDP) in Passaic County, New Jersey, United States. As per the 2010 United States Census, it has a population of 3,618.

[[Short films by Studio Ghibli]]

Studio Ghibli is a Japanese animation film studio founded in 1985. In addition to producing 18 feature films, the studio made several short films, including commercials, films for the Ghibli Museum, music videos, and works released directly to video.

[[Yashaswini Singh Deswal]]

CATEGORIES: Indian people, Sport shooters, 1997 births

Yashaswini Singh Deswal is an Indian sport shooter. She won the gold medal in the 10 metre air pistol event at the 2019 ISSF World Cup in Rio de Janeiro. She secured a quota position for India at the 2020 Summer Olympics.

[[Tomorrow It Will Be Better]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 movies, 1930s drama movies, Dutch drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Frederic Zelnik

Tomorrow It Will Be Better (Morgen gaat het beter) is a 1939 Dutch drama movie directed by Frederic Zelnik and starring Lily Bouwmeester, Aaf Bouber, Kommer Kleyn, Theo Frenkel Jr.. It was based on the novel Tomorrow is Another Day by Annemarie Selinko.

[[Tula, Russia]]

Tula (Тула) is a city and the administrative center of Tula Oblast, Russia. The Klokovo air base, The Tula State University, Tula Kremlin, The Tula State Museum of Weapons and Kazanskaya part of the Upa River is located in Tula. In 2005, Tula has 465,943 people.

[[The Mating of Millie]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Henry Levin

The Mating of Millie is a 1948 American romantic comedy movie directed by Henry Levin and starring Glenn Ford, Evelyn Keyes, Ron Randell, Willard Parker, Jimmy Hunt, Mabel Paige. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[.kkrieger]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, Windows games

.kkrieger (from Krieger, German for warrior) is a first-person shooter video game made by German demogroup .theprodukkt (previously part of Farbrausch). The game won first place in the 96k game competition at Breakpoint in April 2004 and is in beta.

[[Mr. Soft Touch]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s drama movies, American crime drama movies, Movies directed by Henry Levin, Movies directed by Gordon Douglas

Mr. Soft Touch is a 1949 American crime drama movie directed by Henry Levin and Gordon Douglas and starring Glenn Ford, Evelyn Keyes, John Ireland, Beulah Bondi, Percy Kilbride, Clara Blandick, Roman Bohnen. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Joshua Martins]]

CATEGORIES: Internet celebrities, Actors, Comedy, Bloggers

Sunday Joshua Martins is an actor and comedian from Nigeria. He is known as De General or The Bag God.

Joshua Martins was born on 15 March 1999 in Port Harcourt, River State, Nigeria. He was raised and went to primary school there.

He studied in the University of Benin (UNIBEN).

In 2018, Joshua Martins created a duo Dream Comedy with his friend Named Major.

In 2019, De General released his comedy “When your guy is a real gee”.

Then he published his first action-comedy video carrying a bag and gained the nickname “The Bag God”.

[[Tosin Ajibade]]

CATEGORIES: Bloggers, Internet celebrities

Tosin Ajibade is a blogger and publicist from Nigeria. She is known as OloriSuperGal.

She was born on 17 February 1987 in Nigeria.

Tosin studied at the Lagos State University and the School of Media and Communications, Pan-Atlantic University in Nigeria.

She created entertainment website, OloriSuperGal.com and it became one of the most popular in Nigeria.

[[Callimedusa baltea]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The purple-sided leaf frog (Calllimedusa baltea) is a frog that lives in Peru. Scientists have seen it 1280 meters above sea level.

[[Tony Rome]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 movies, 1960s mystery movies, American mystery movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Gordon Douglas

Tony Rome is a 1967 American mystery movie directed by Gordon Douglas and was based on the 1960 novel Miami Mayhem by Marvin H. Albert. It stars Frank Sinatra, Jill St. John, Sue Lyon, Gena Rowlands, Simon Oakland, Richard Conte, Robert J. Wilke and was distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was followed in 1968 by Lady in Clement.

[[Ben lupprian]]

Ben lupprian was made on the first day of the big bang along with god. As part of the Lupprian-God treaty  God decided that it was only fair that Ben Lupprian would have a birthday on every day of the year.

History of Ben Lupprian

When Ben Lupprian was created by god in the early hours of the universes existence, he decided that he was too good to do god's work and so he declared war on god and the gas particles surrounding god. Ben used his transforming powers (The ben10 watch) and transformed into a four arm monster, murdering god and creating the universe himself. The war lasted a total of 17 hours and led to Ben being the primary source of power in the universe. Joeseph gavin was made the second hand man to ben luprian and was given more power than any one else

[[Samsung Galaxy Z Fold3]]

CATEGORIES: Mobile phones released in 2021, Samsung mobile phones, Mobile phones with 4K video recording, Mobile phones with multiple rear cameras

Samsung Galaxy Z Fold3 is a foldable mobile phone that was released in 2021.

[[Khimki]]

Khimki (Химки) is a city in Moscow Oblast, Russia.

[[Indian Railways organisational structure]]

India's rail system, Indian Railways, is managed at a regional level as eighteen zonal railways. 

Each zone is headed by a General Manager. At the top is the Railway Board, a part of the Ministry of Railways. It is headed by a Chairman who directly reports to the Railway Minister. The board has five other members. The General Managers of the zonal railways and the production units report to the Board.  There is a total of 71 divisions on the system nationwide. The divisions are primarily involved with train running but may also have locomotive sheds. Each division has all the functional organizations (both line and staff). The heads of these functional groups report to the DRM for administrative purposes but depend on the railway board and the zonal headquarters for policy guidelines.

[[Mytishchi]]

Mytishchi (Мытищи) is a city in Moscow Oblast in Russia. It is the administrative center of Mytishchinsky District in Moscow Oblast.

[[Air Belgium (2016)]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Belgium, Airlines

Air Belgium S.A. is a Belgian airline with the main office in Mont-Saint-Guibert and based at Brussels South Charleroi Airport.

[[Podolsk]]

Podolsk (Подольск) is a city in Moscow Oblast, Russia.

[[Office of the Leader of the House of Commons]]

The Office of the Leader of the House of Commons (OLHC) provides support to the Leader of the House of Commons, who is responsible for planning and supervising the government’s legislative programme (including the Queen’s speech), and managing government business within the House of Commons while also upholding the rights and interests of the backbench members of the House.

[[Common mudpuppy]]

CATEGORIES: Carnivores

Common mudpuppies live in streams, rivers and ponds. They hide in vegetation on the ground. They eat snails, worms and cray fish. They lay clutches of eggs. They are carnivores. They can grow up to 13 and be as small as 8. There also one of the few salamanders that make sound the actually bark like dogs.  They are also endanger from habitat loss.

[[Office of the Leader of the House of Lords]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century establishments in Great Britain, Government agencies of the United Kingdom

The Office of the Leader of the House of Lords (OLHL) provides support to the Leader of the House of Lords. The Leader of the House is appointed by the Prime Minister, is a member of the Cabinet and is responsible for the conduct of government business in the House of Lords. The Leader advises the House on procedure and order, and their office is available to assist and advise all members of the House.

[[Scotland Office]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Scotland, Government agencies of the United Kingdom, Organisations based in London

The Scotland Office (SO) ensures the smooth working of the devolution settlement in Scotland. The SO represents Scottish interests within the UK government and represents the UK government in Scotland.

[[List of programs broadcast by StarPlus]]

This is the list of current, upcoming and formerly broadcast series by the Indian television channel StarPlus.

[[Wales Office]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Wales, Government agencies of the United Kingdom, Organisations based in London, 1999 establishments in the United Kingdom

The Wales Office (WO) ensures the smooth working of the devolution settlement in Wales, representing the UK government in Wales. The WO represents Welsh interests in Westminster.

[[Department of Energy and Climate Change]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in the United Kingdom, Climate change, 2010s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Government agencies of the United Kingdom

The Department of Energy & Climate Change (DECC) works to make sure the UK has secure, clean, affordable energy supplies and promote international action to mitigate climate change.

[[Genshin Impact]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

Genshin Impact is a 2020 open world RPG game by Miyoho Games.

[[Evelyn Sharp (aviator)]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1944 deaths, Accidental deaths in Pennsylvania, American aviators, People from Montana

Evelyn Genevieve "Sharpie" Sharp (October 1, 1919 – April 3, 1944) was an American airplane flier.

[[Ministry of Justice]]

Ministry of Justice can be:

[[Isa Masih]]

Isa Masih was a 1st century preacher. In Islam, he is the penultimate prophet and messenger of God in Islam, sent to guide the Children of Israel with a revelation: Injīl. He is believed to be a descendant of Ibrahim, and is seen as an example for all Muslims to follow. According to the Quran, Jibrael told that the name of the figure will be Masih Isa.

According to the Quran, Isa foretold the coming of Muhammads in As-Saff 61:6. In Islam, Isa is the only prophet to return. Muslims believe that Isa will return in a Second Coming to fight Gog and Magog and Al-Masih ad-Dajjal or "False Messiah" and establish peace and justice on earth.

[[Pubic Hairy Truman]]

"Pubic Hairy Truman" is the twenty-fourth season premiere of the American animated television series South Park. It originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on September 22, 2021. Harry S. Truman's name was parodied in the episode's title. The plot follows Eric Cartman's plan to go back in time in order to get Truman's pubic hair when he is challenged by Kyle Broflovski in exchange for $30. Robert De Niro provides the voice of Truman. "Pubic Hairy Truman" was written and directed by Trey Parker, as with most South Park episodes since the seventh season.

[[Monsieur Beaucaire (1946 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by George Marshall

Monsieur Beaucaire is a 1946 American comedy movie directed by George Marshall and is the second version of the 1900 novel of the same name by Booth Tarkington. It stars Bob Hope, Joan Caulfield, Patric Knowles, Marjorie Reynolds, Cecil Kellaway, Reginald Owen, Hillary Brooke, Constance Collier and was distributed by Paramount Pictures.

[[Cry for Happy]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 comedy movies, 1960s war movies, American war movies, American comedy movies, Japanese movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by George Marshall

Cry for Happy is a 1961 Korean War comedy movie directed by George Marshall and was based on the 1958 novel of the same name by George Campbell. It stars Glenn Ford, Donald O'Connor, Miiko Taka, James Shigeta, Miyoshi Umeki, Michi Kobi, Howard St. John, Harlan Warde, Nancy Kovack and was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Notre Dame, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Indiana

Notre Dame is a census-designated place north of the city of South Bend in St. Joseph County, in the U.S. state of Indiana. Three universities are within Notre Dame: the University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, and Holy Cross College. Part of Notre Dame is in Clay Township and the other part is in Portage Township. As of the 2020 census, its population was 6,342.

[[Before I Hang]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 movies, 1940s science fiction movies, 1940s horror movies, American science fiction horror movies, Movies directed by Nick Grinde

Before I Hang is a 1940 American science fiction horror movie directed by Nick Grinde and starring Boris Karloff, Bruce Bennett, Evelyn Keyes, Edward Van Sloan, Ben Taggart, Don Beddoe. It was distributed by Columbia Pictures.

[[Drums Across the River]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Nathan Juran

Drums Across the River is 1954 American western movie directed by Nathan Juran and starring Audie Murphy, Walter Brennan, Lyle Bettger, Lisa Gaye, Hugh O'Brian, Mara Corday, Regis Toomey, Morris Ankrum. It was distributed by Universal Pictures.

[[Cartoon All-Stars to the Rescue (2nd version)]]

Cartoon All-Stars to the Rescue is a 2005 American animated drug-abuse prevention television special starring many of the popular cartoon characters from American weekday, Sunday morning, and cartoon Saturday morning television at the time of its release.1 Financed by McDonald's and Chuck E. Cheese, it was originally simulcast on April 21, 2005 on all four major American television networks (by supporting their Saturday morning characters): ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox, and most independent stations, as well as various cable networks. McDonald's and Chuck E. Cheese's also distributed a VHS home video edition of it, produced by Buena Vista Home Video, which opened with an introduction from President George H. W. Bush, First Lady Barbara Bush and their dog, Millie. It was produced by the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Foundation and Southern Star Productions, and was animated overseas by Wang Film Productions Co., Ltd.. The musical number "Wonderful Ways to Say No" was written by Academy-Award winning composer, Alan Menken and Howard Ashman, who also wrote the songs.

[[Fathom (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 comedy movies, 1960s action movies, 1960s spy movies, British action movies, American action comedy movies, American spy movies, Movies based on books, 20th Century Fox movies, Movies directed by Leslie H. Martinson

Fathom is a 1967 British American action spy comedy movie directed by Leslie H. Martinson and was based on the unfinished novel by Larry Forrester. It stars Raquel Welch, Anthony Franciosa, Ronald Fraser, Richard Briers, Greta Chi, Ann Lancaster and was distributed by 20th Century Fox.

[[Guess Who, Scooby-Doo!]]

Guess Who, Scooby-Doo! is an American animated television series Warner Bros. Animation, the thirteenth incarnation of Hanna-Barbera Scooby-Doo animated series produced by Warner Bros. Animation for Boomerang and Cartoon Network. It is also a spin off of the 1980 version.

[[List of Guess Who, Scooby-Doo! episodes]]

This is the list episodes of Guess Who, Scooby-Doo!.

[[Women's Indian Association (WIA)]]

CATEGORIES: Women's rights, Feminists by nationality, Feminists, Women's organisations based in India

The Women's Indian Association (WIA) was founded by Annie Besant, Margaret Cousins, Jeena Raja Dasa and others in 1917 at Adayar, Madras. It was formed to free women from the unpleasant conditions during the 19th and early 20th centuries. Later on, the Association raised its voice against illiteracy, child marriage, the Devadasi system and other social problems. It also took an active part in negotiations with the British on constitutional matters. WIA was part of a 14 (all-women) members delegation that met the Montague Chelmsford Commission. They argued equal voting rights for women. Dr. Annie Besant was the first President of WIA. After the death of Ms. Besant in 1933, Ms. Jina Raja Dasa became the president of WIA. She was more involved in the internal politics of theosophists. Gradually WIA lost its fame and moral support of people.

[[Allmyapps]]

CATEGORIES: Software distribution platforms

Allmyapps is an application store for Microsoft Windows. The service allows users to install, update and organize over 1,500 PC applications.

[[Madhav Mahajan]]

CATEGORIES: Indian musicians

Madhav Mahajan is a Doctor turned Indian Singer-Songwriter who prominently work for the Punjabi Music industry. Mahajan came to limelight after his song Chann Vi Gawah gained popularity in India mainly in Punjab. Madhav is fiancee of Bollywood Actress Angela Krislinzki.

[[Working Women's Forum]]

CATEGORIES: Women's organisations based in India, Organisations based in Chennai

The Working Women's Forum (WWF) is a women's organisation in southern India. It was founded in 1978 by Jaya Arunachalam in Madras (Chennai). It empowers poor women in southern India by providing microcredit, a trade union, health care, education and training. It works with the poor women who are working in the informal sector, such as street vendors, silkworm growers and silk weavers, handicraft producers, washerwomen and fisherwomen.

WWF has helped more than 7,000,000 women by providing credit and other services.

Women joins the WWF as they receive credit easily on reasonable interest rate.

There are two important organisations related to the WWF :–

These are the four ideologies that WWF strongly follows –

Pro Women: To work only for women of the informal sector who provide support to their families and welfare.

Anti-Dowry: To abolish the practice of dowry through collective efforts against such practices, involving rape and divorce.

Anti-Caste and Pro-Secularism: To support women regardless of their castes, religious beliefs and inter-caste weddings.

Anti-Politics: To avoid involving the areas related to political parties and agendas.

[[Aminet]]

Aminet is the world's largest archive of Amiga-related software and files. 

Aminet was originally hosted by several universities' FTP sites, and is now available on CD-ROM and on the web.

In 1 April 2013, Aminet has 80592 packages online.

[[Pribilof Islands]]

The Pribilof Islands (formerly the Northern Fur Seal Islands; Russian: Острова Прибылова) are a group of four volcanic islands off the coast of mainland Alaska, in the Bering Sea, about 200 miles (320 km) north of Unalaska and 200 miles (320 km) southwest of Cape Newenham. The Siberian coast is roughly 500 miles (800 km) northwest. About 77 square miles (200 km2) in total area, they are mostly rocky and are covered with tundra, with a population of 572 as of the 2010 census.

[[It Started with a Kiss (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 comedy movies, 1950s romance movies, American romantic comedy movies, MGM movies, Movies directed by George Marshall

It Started with a Kiss is a 1959 American romantic comedy movie directed by George Marshall and starring Glenn Ford, Debbie Reynolds, Eva Gabor, Gustavo Rojo, Fred Clark, Edgar Buchanan, Harry Morgan, Robert Warwick, Frances Bavier. It was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

[[Ariyan Mehedi (Singer)]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, male musicians, male singers, Playback singers

Ariyan Mehedi is a Bangladeshi playback singer. He is known for his first work in Bangladesh Natok Industry. He sang the title track of Leku (2021).

[[Shaun the Sheep]]

Shaun the Sheep is an channel films has developed in Aardman Animations, while the next creator of Shaun the Sheep : The Movie was release in 2015. Shaun the Sheep has introduced in 2008 by minigame.

[[Callimedusa ecuatoriana]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The Agua Rica leaf frog (Calllimedusa ecuatoriana) is a frog that lives in Ecuador. Scientists have seen it between 1630 and 1900 mmeters above sea level.

The adult male frog is 5.5 cm long.  This frog has purple color on parts of its skin and large orange patches.  It has a white stripe down the side of its jaw and body.  Its belly is pale orange.

[[Shakir Subhan]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, People from Kerala, Indian people, Indian YouTubers, Living people

Shakir Subhan (born April 10, 1991), also known as Mallu Traveler, is an Indian descent Malayali travel vlogger and youtube adventure, who is notable for traveling to 34 countries before reaching the age of thirty.cn

[[Joilson Junior de Melo]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian people, Mato Grosso, Living people, 1988 births

Joilson Melo is a Brazilian businessman and legal activist.  He came to public attention after he initiated a legal battle against the Court of Justice of Mato Grosso. 

[[Joilson Melo]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian people, Mato Grosso, Living people, 1988 births

Joilson Melo is a Brazilian businessman and legal activist.  He came to public attention after he initiated a legal battle against the Court of Justice of Mato Grosso. 

[[Ike's Wee Wee]]

"Ike's Wee Wee" is the fourth episode of the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 17th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on May 27, 1998. The episode was written and directed by Trey Parker.

[[BanX]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Television talk show hosts, American television personalities, Participants in American reality television series, Models from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Inglewood, California, 1973 births, Living people

Tyra Banks (born August 4, 1973 in Inglewood, California) is an American supermodel and actress. She is hosts her television programs, America's Next Top Model and The Tyra Banks Show.

Tyra is 5'11" tall. She is the CEO of her own company, TYInc. She was the first African American model to appear on the cover of Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Edition. Tyra is the "Youth Correspondent" for the Oprah Winfrey Show. She signed modeling contract with the Elite Agency when she was 15 years old. Before she signed, Tyra planned on attending Loyola Marymount University.

[[The Mexican Staring Frog of Southern Sri Lanka]]

"The Mexican Staring Frog of Southern Sri Lanka" is the sixth episode in the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 19th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on June 10, 1998. The episode was written by series co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone, and directed by Parker. In the episode, the deadly "Mexican Staring Frog of Southern Sri Lanka" is sighted in South Park and the town's fearless hunters, Ned and Jimbo, are on the case. Their heroic efforts drive up the ratings for their hunting show and threaten to edge out Jesus's television show, Jesus and Pals.

[[City on the Edge of Forever]]

"City on the Edge of Forever" (also known as "Flashbacks") is the seventh episode of the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 20th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on June 17, 1998. The episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker, along with Nancy M. Pimental, and directed by Parker. It guest stars Henry Winkler, Jay Leno, and Brent Musburger. In the episode, the boys reminisce about past experiences as their school bus is left teetering on the edge of a cliff. Ms. Crabtree leaves to seek help, but forgets about the children when she meets a truck driver named Marcus.

[[Summer Sucks]]

"Summer Sucks" is the eighth episode of the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 20th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on June 24, 1998. The episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker, along with Nancy M. Pimental, and directed by Parker. In this episode, Cartman builds a miniature golf course, and it becomes successful, until the FBI finds out about all the flaws in Cartman's course. After this, the FBI threatens to shut it down.

[[Englos]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Englos is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France. It is near the city of Lille.

[[Ohain]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Ohain is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[List of largest Jalisco cities by population]]

This is a simple page of the cities of Jalisco, Mexico. If I wouldn't have made this page there wouldn't be one here. So, you are welcome.

[[Amfroipret]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Amfroipret is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Allennes-les-Marais]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Allennes-les-Marais is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Anor]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Anor is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[SheSays India]]

CATEGORIES: Women's organisations based in India, Non-profit organizations

SheSays India is an NGO based in Mumbai, India. It works to promote gender equality and the rights of women. It believes in achievement of SDG 5- Gender Equality through cooperation and reform. The NGO educates people about their rights in different languages. Its website is accessible in regional and foreign languages. It also educates people about the laws and the methods for remedy in gender-based violence case. The founder of the NGO is Trisha Shetty. She is the current CEO of the NGO. She is a lawyer and social activist.

[[Blécourt, Nord]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Blécourt is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls]]

"Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls" is the ninth episode of the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 20th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on August 19, 1998. The episode was written by series co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone, along with Nancy M. Pimental, and directed by Parker. In this episode, Chef composes a song based on chocolate and sends it to No Limit Records, where the record label's founder Percy "Master P" Miller gives him a record deal. The deal helped establish Chef as a singer and Master P as a record producer. However, things turn out for the worse when Master P forces Chef to record rap songs instead of soul songs. 

[[Half Moon Bay, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in San Mateo County, California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area

Half Moon Bay is a city in San Mateo County, California. It is about 25 south of San Francisco. 11,324 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Evelyn Sharp (suffragist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1869 births, 1955 deaths, British feminists, British writers

Evelyn Jane Sharp (4 August 1869 – 17 June 1955) was a British suffragist.  That means she wanted women to have the right to vote in British elections. She was involved in two major British women's suffrage societies. They were the militant Women's Social and Political Union and the United Suffragists. She helped start the United Suffragists. She became editor of the Votes for Women newspaper during the First World War. She was sent to prison twice. She was a book writer who was famous for her children's books.

[[Evelyn Sharp]]

Evelyn Sharp may refer to:

[[Volcanic bomb]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanology

A volcanic bomb or lava bomb is a mass of molten rock larger than 64 mm (2.5 inches) in diameter. It forms when a volcano throws viscous pieces of lava during a volcanic eruption. They cool into solid objects before they reach the ground. However, they are still very hot when they reach the ground, because they are still partly molten inside. Because volcanic bombs cool after they leave the volcano, they are extrusive igneous rocks. Volcanic bombs can be thrown many kilometers from an erupting fissure vent. They often get aerodynamic shapes during their flight. Lava bombs can be extremely large; the 1935 eruption of Mount Asama in Japan expelled bombs measuring 5–6 m (16-20 ft) in diameter up to 600 from the vent. Volcanic bombs are a significant volcanic hazard, and can cause severe injuries and death to people in an eruption zone. One such incident occurred at Galeras volcano in Colombia in 1993; six people near the summit were killed and several seriously injured by lava bombs when the volcano erupted unexpectedly. On July 16, 2018, 23 people were injured on a tour boat near the Kilauea volcano as a result of a basketball-sized lava bomb from the 2018 lower Puna eruption.

Volcanic bombs are known to occasionally explode from internal gas pressure as they cool, but in most cases, most of the damage they cause is when they hit. As they are still hot when they land, they often cause a fire to start. Bomb explosions are most often observed in "bread-crust" type bombs.

[[Prospect, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Louisiana

Prospect is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Grant Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Rock Hill, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Louisiana

Rock Hill is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Grant Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Minna Aaltonen]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2021 deaths, Finnish movie actors, Finnish television actors, Finnish stage actors

Minna Kaisa Aaltonen (17 September 1966 – 11 September 2021) was a Finnish actress. She played Marianne in London's Burning and Ingrid Coates in Dream Team. She also had a small role in the James Bond movie Tomorrow Never Dies. In 1994, she hosted Gladiaattorit. Aaltonen was born in Turku, Finland.

Aaltonen died on 11 September 2021 in Helsinki, Finland one week before her 67th birthday.

[[Gunnar Utterberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Swedish Olympians, Olympic gold medalists

Gunnar Utterberg (28 November 1942 – 12 September 2021) was a Swedish sprint canoer. He was born in Jönköping, Sweden. He competed in 1000 m doubles and fours at the 1964, 1968 and 1972 Olympics. He won a gold medal in the doubles event in 1964.

Utterbeg died on 12 September 2021, at the age of 78.

[[Orlando Martínez]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2021 deaths, Cuban sportspeople, Olympic gold medalists, Boxers

Orlando Martínez (September 2, 1944 – September 22, 2021) was a Cuban bantamweight boxer. He won the gold medal at the 1972 Summer Olympics. He also won gold at the 1975 Pan American Games.

Martínez died on September 22, 2021 at the age of 77.

[[Christian Anderson]]

Christian Anderson (born June 15, 1998), known professionally as Trust'N, is an American singer, songwriter, entrepreneur, and founder of his own company, Lost Boy Entertainment, LLC. He is also the youngest member on the Forbes Council  Born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Anderson has appeared on a local TV broadcast segment. became popular from his singles "Over Me", "Off My Mind", "Golden Boy", and "Let You Be".

[[Roger Michell]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2021 deaths, British television directors, British movie directors, British theatre directors, South African people

Roger Michell (5 June 1956 – 22 September 2021) was a South African-born British theatre, television and movie director. He was best known for directing Notting Hill and Venus. He also directed the television movie Persuasion.

Michell died on 22 September 2021, at the age of 65.

[[Arden Hills, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

Arden Hills is a city in Ramsey County, Minnesota, United States.

[[Falcon Heights, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

Falcon Heights is a city in Ramsey County, Minnesota, United States.

[[Gem Lake, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

Gem Lake is a city in Ramsey County, Minnesota, United States.

[[Lauderdale, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Minnesota

Lauderdale is a city in Ramsey County, Minnesota, United States.

[[Jüri Tamm]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2021 deaths, Estonian sportspeople, Olympic bronze medalists, Estonian politicians

Jüri Tamm (5 February 1957 – 22 September 2021) was an Estonian hammer thrower and politician. He won a bronze medal in the 1980 and 1988 Summer Olympics and a silver medal at the 1987 World Championships in Athletics. 

He was elected three times into the Parliament of Estonia between 1999 until 2011 for the Social Democratic Party.

[[Kjell Askildsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Norwegian politicians

Kjell Askildsen (30 September 1929 – 23 September 2021) was a Norwegian writer. He was known for writing many short stories. He was awarded the Mads Wiel Nygaards Endowment in recognition of his novel, Omgivelser (1969).

Askildsen died on 23 September 2021, at the age of 91.

[[Uthman ibn Ali]]

Uthman ibn Ali (عثمان بن علي) was a son of Ali ibn Abi Talib and Fatimah bint Huzam. Uthman was martyred in the Battle of Karbala is highly honored by Muslims. According to some hadiths, Uthman was 21 and had no children when he was martyred. His grave is in the mausoleum of the collective grave of the martyrs of Karbala in the shrine of Husayn ibn Ali.

[[Jorge Liberato Urosa Savino]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Venezuela, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, People from Caracas

Jorge Liberato Urosa y Savino (28 August 1942 – 23 September 2021) was a Venezuelan prelate of the Catholic Church. 

He was auxiliary bishop of Caracas from 1982 to 1990, Archbishop of Valencia from 1990 to 2005, and Archbishop of Caracas from 2005 to 2018. 

He was made a cardinal in 2006.

On 27 August 2021, Urosa was hospitalized in Caracas under critical condition with COVID-19. He died on 23 September 2021 from the infection, aged 79.

[[Nino Vaccarella]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Italian racecar drivers, People from Palermo

Nino Vaccarella (4 March 1933 – 23 September 2021) was an Italian sports car racing and Formula One driver. He won the 1964 24 Hours of Le Mans, and the Targa Florio in 1965, 1971 and 1975.

[[Pee Wee Ellis]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2021 deaths, American funk musicians, American funk singers, American soul musicians, American soul singers, American jazz musicians, American jazz singers, American saxophonists, American composers, American keyboard players, Musicians from Florida, Singers from Florida, Writers from Florida

Alfred James Ellis (April 21, 1941 – September 23, 2021), known as Pee Wee Ellis, was an American saxophonist, composer, and arranger. He was a member of James Brown's band in the 1960s. He was known for writing "Cold Sweat" and "Say It Loud – I'm Black and I'm Proud". 

Ellis died on September 23, 2021 at the age of 80.

[[Takao Saito]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Japanese manga artists

Takao Saito was a Japanese manga artist. His work was seen as gekiga. He was best known for Golgo 13. It is the oldest manga still in publication.

Saito died of pancreatic cancer on September 24, 2021 at the age of 84.

[[Paul Quilès]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, French mayors

Paul Quilès (pɔl kilɛs, 27 January 1942 – 24 September 2021) was a French Socialist politician.

He was Defense Minister from 1985 to 1986. He was Interior Minister from 1992 to 1993, then chairman of the Defense commission in the French National Assembly from 1997 to 2002. 

Quilès died on 24 September 2021 from cancer in Paris at the age of 79.

[[Slippery dick]]

CATEGORIES: Fish

The slippery dick (Halichoeres bivittatus) is a species of wrasse. They can be found on shallow, tropical waters of your mom]].

[[Patricio Manns]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2021 deaths, Chilean singers, Chilean writers, Activists, Playwrights, Journalists, Essayists, Composers, Deaths from heart failure

Iván Patricio Eugenio Manns de Folliot  (3 August 1937 – 25 September 2021) was a Chilean singer, composer, author, poet, novelist, essayist, play writer and journalist. He was critic of dictator Augusto Pinochet and was sent in exile for his criticism.

Manns died of heart failure in Concón, Chile on 25 September 2021, at the age of 84.

[[Nacimiento, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Nacimiento (nasiˈmjento, Birth) is a Chilean city near the Bío Bío Province, Bío Bío Region. It is 550 south of Santiago.

[[Concón]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Concón is a Chilean city and commune in Valparaíso Province, Valparaíso Region.

[[Mehdi Yaghoubi]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Iranian sportspeople, Wrestlers, Olympic silver medalists

Mohammad Mehdi Yaghoubi (محمدمهدی یعقوبی; 2 April 1930 – 25 September 2021) was an Iranian bantamweight freestyle wrestler. He competed at the 1952, 1956 and 1960 Olympics and won a silver medal in 1956. 

Yaghoubi died on 25 September 2021 at the age of 91.

[[Alan Lancaster]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from multiple sclerosis, English rock guitarists, English rock drummers, English rock singers, Singer-songwriters from London, Musicians from London

Alan Charles Lancaster (7 February 1949 – 26 September 2021) was an English musician. He was best known as founding member and bassist of the rock band Status Quo. He played with the band from 1967 to 1985.

On 26 September 2021, Lancaster died in Sydney, Australia, at the age of 72 from problems caused by multiple sclerosis.

[[Eberhard Jüngel]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, German theologians, German academics

Eberhard Jüngel (5 December 1934 – 28 September 2021) was a German Lutheran theologian. He was a professor of Systematic Theology and the Philosophy of Religion at the University of Tübingen.

He was a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, also Chancellor of the Order Pour le Mérite for Sciences and Arts, and a member of the Synod of the Protestant Church in Germany.

Jüngel died in Tübingen, Germany on 28 September 2021 at the age of 86.

[[Barry Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2021 deaths, British rock singers, British rock musicians, British pop singers, British pop musicians, British photographers, Musicians from Yorkshire, People from Leeds

Barry Ryan (born Barry Sapherson; 24 October 1948 – 28 September 2021) was a British pop singer and photographer. He was known for his 1968 single "Eloise".

Ryan died on the 28 September 2021, at the age of 72.

[[Lonnie Smith (jazz musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2021 deaths, American jazz musicians, American soul musicians, American funk musicians, Musicians from Buffalo, New York

Lonnie Smith (July 3, 1942 – September 28, 2021), also known as Dr. Lonnie Smith, was an American jazz musician. He was a member of the George Benson quartet in the 1960s.

[[Lackawanna, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in New York

Lackawanna is a city in Erie County, New York, United States.

[[Hayko]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Armenia, Singers, Armenian people

Hayk "Hayko" Hakobyan (Հայկ Հակոբյան; 25 August 1973 – 29 September 2021) was an Armenian singer. He represented Armenia in the 2007 Eurovision Song Contest in Helsinki. He performed "Anytime You Need" and came in eighth place in the contest. He was born in Yerevan, Armenia.

Hayko died on 29 September 2021, in Yerevan, from COVID-19 at aged 48.

[[Bronius Kutavičius]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Lithuanian writers, Composers

Bronius Kutavičius (13 September 1932 – 29 September 2021) was a Lithuanian composer. He had written many oratorios and operas. His best known works were The Last Pagan Rites, Lokys the Bear and The Gates of Jerusalem. He won the Lithuanian State Prize in 1995.

Kutavičius died on 29 September 2021 in Vilnius, Lithuania at the age of 88.

[[The Vibrators]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in the United Kingdom, British rock bands, Musical groups from London, Musical groups established in 1976, 1970s British music groups, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups

The Vibrators are a British punk rock band that formed in 1976.

The band signed to Epic Records in early 1977. Their debut album, Pure Mania was co-produced with Robin Mayhew, the sound engineer for David Bowie's Ziggy Stardust live shows, and reached the top 50 of the UK Albums Chart.

[[Cecilia Lindqvist]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Swedish historians, Swedish academics

Cecilia Lindqvist  (Chinese name: Lin Xili 林西莉 (Lin Xili)) (4 June 1932 – 27 September 2021) was a Swedish Sinologist. She wrote about and taught about the history of China.

Lindqvist died on 27 September 2021 at the age of 89.

[[Alp, Catalonia]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Catalonia

Alp is a municipality in the comarca of Cerdanya, Province of Girona, Catalonia, Spain. In 2018, 1,559 people lived there.

[[Spanish Revolution of 1936]]

The Spanish revolution of 1936 was due to the Americans stealing the Spanish's patatas brava and with the defeat of Barcelona to LA galaxy of 37000 to -3

which led to an ultimate defeat and denial for the  Americans. Marylin Monroe missed 30000 shots on target which led to 15000 red cards this was devastating for LA galaxy that even Prince Phillip came running on the pitch like a hooligan. During half time all the players lined up to snort cocaine of the grassy pitch this was gifted to them by Pablo Escabor the man himself who led Barcelona to take the lead for 37000.

[[Anhiers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Anhiers is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Bergues]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Bergues is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Aniche]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Aniche is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Cartignies]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Cartignies is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Chef Aid]]

"Chef Aid" is the fourteenth episode in the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 27th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on October 7, 1998. The episode was written by series co-creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone, and directed by Parker. In the episode, Eric Cartman and Stan Marsh organize a music festival to raise money when Chef is sued by a record company. However, the celebration gets out of hand when the police arrive to investigate the festival.

[[Spookyfish]]

"Spookyfish" is the fifteenth episode of the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 28th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on October 28, 1998. The episode was written and directed by Trey Parker. In the episode, Aunt Flo comes to stay, but her goldfish she bought for Stan Marsh turns out to be evil. Meanwhile, in a subplot, Cartman grows a beard and starts acting strangely nice and agreeable.

[[List of Satellaview broadcasts]]

CATEGORIES: Video games, Video games developed in Japan

There are three lists of Satellaview broadcasts, all sorted in the order of the alphabet: games, magazines and data broadcasts. Because the Satellaview was only available in Japan, all titles are in Japanese and English translations are provided where possible.

This is a list of all official broadcasts, which were shown using the BS network from April 23, 1995 to June 30, 2000, including when St.GIGA worked with Nintendo (April 1995 - April 1999) and did not (April 1999 - June 2000).

Many broadcasts were shown in episodes, so many broadcast names looked like "Game Title 第X週" ("Game Title Dai-X-Shuu"), "X" being the week number. Other broadcast names showed the exact date of the broadcast. This often happened with Nintendo Power magazine broadcasts. So each item can be shown once, broadcast names and the number of weeks unique episodes were broadcast are shown, including the dates they were first broadcast.

Some non-SoundLink Satellaview broadcasts came out for the Super Famicom, either first or at the same time.

[[Roger Ebert Should Lay Off the Fatty Foods]]

"Roger Ebert Should Lay Off the Fatty Foods" is the eleventh episode of the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 28th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on September 2, 1998. The episode was written by Trey Parker, along with David Goodman, and directed by Parker. In the episode, the class goes on a bus trip to the local planetarium. Once arriving, Eric Cartman is tempted by a Cheesy Poofs truck parked outside, auditioning kids to sing the Cheesy Poofs song on their next television advertisement. Cartman makes fun of film critic Roger Ebert (voiced by Joe Pesci) when he is revealed to be the owner of Cheesy Poofs.

[[Merry Christmas, Charlie Manson!]]

"Merry Christmas, Charlie Manson!" is the sixteenth episode of the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 29th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on December 9, 1998. The episode was written by Trey Parker, along with Nancy M. Pimental, and directed by Eric Stough. In the episode, the boys have been invited to Eric Cartman's grandmother Mabel Cartman's house in Nebraska for the hoildays. Unfortunately, for Stan Marsh, his parents forbids him to go because it is far away from home, but Stan argues over with them and as a result gets sent to his bed without his supper.

[[Prehistoric Ice Man]]

"Prehistoric Ice Man" is the eighteenth and final episode of the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 31st episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on January 20, 1999. The episode was written by Trey Parker, along with Nancy M. Pimental, and directed by Eric Stough. In the episode, Stan, Kyle, Cartman, and Kenny are inspired to go hunting for crocodiles by watching a Steve Irwin television program in which Irwin is depicted as having a predilection for placing his thumb up an animal's rectum. Stan and Kyle end up catching an ice man from the 17th century, and become upset at the ice man's inhumane treatment, so they decide to set him free.

[[Cow Days]]

"Cow Days" is the thirteenth episode of the second season of the American animated television series South Park. The 26th episode of the series overall, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on September 30, 1998. The episode was written by Trey Parker & David Goodman wrote the episode, and directed by Parker. In "Cow Days", a couple named Tom and Mary win a trip to South Park for the "Cow Days" festival from a game show, although they were expecting something more extravagant. Stan, Kyle, Kenny, and Cartman are at the festival, but find it less than satisfactory after Stan gets sexually abused by Craig Tucker's parents.

[[Edith Stein]]

Saint Teresa Benedicta of the Cross (12 October 1891 – 9 August 1942), commonly known as Edith Stein, is a Catholic Saint and martyr. Stein was a Jew at birth but converted to Catholicism in 1922. Eleven years later, in 1933, she became a nun. She was a victim of the Holocaust; she was executed by Nazis in a gas chamber at Auschwitz in 1942.

She was one of the most important philosophers on Earth during her adult life. Her work focused on phenomenology and the views of metaphysics held by Thomas Aquinas.

After her death, she has been honored by the Roman Catholic Church. On 1 May 1987, Pope John Paul II beatified Stein while visiting Cologne. About eleven years later, on 11 October 1998, Pope John Paul II canonized her.

[[Marilyn Waring]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, New Zealand politicians, New Zealand writers, LGBT writers, LGBT politicians, Lesbian feminists, Environmentalists

Dame Marilyn Joy Waring NZL (born 7 October 1952) is a New Zealand politician, environmentalist and feminist. She is a key person in the founding of feminist economics.

In 1975, aged 23, she became New Zealand's youngest member of parliament for the liberal-conservative New Zealand National Party. She is best known for her 1988 book If Women Counted.

In 2021 she was appointed by the World Health Organization as a member of the WHO Council on the Economics of Health For All.

[[Martin Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Hong Kong, Asian politicians

Martin Lee Chu-ming, SC, JP (born 8 June 1938) is a Hong Kong politician and lawyer. He is the founding chairman of the United Democrats of Hong Kong and the Democratic Party. He was also a member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong from 1985 to 1997 and from 1998 to 2008.

[[Diablo Cody]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Screenwriters from Illinois, Movie producers from Illinois, Academy Award winning writers, BAFTA Award winning writers, Tony Award winners

Brook Maurio (née Busey; born June 14, 1978), known professionally by the pen name Diablo Cody, is an American writer and producer. She wrote the screenplay for Juno (2007), winning the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay, the BAFTA Award for Best Original Screenplay, the Independent Spirit Award for Best First Screenplay, and the Writers Guild of America Award for Best Original Screenplay.

[[Halldór Laxness]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1998 deaths, Icelandic writers, People from Reykjavík

LiteratureHalldór Kiljan Laxness (ˈhaltour ˈcʰɪljan ˈlaksnɛs; born Halldór Guðjónsson; 23 April 1902 – 8 February 1998) was an Icelandic writer. He won the 1955 Nobel Prize in Literature. 

[[Eeva Ahtisaari]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Finnish writers, First Ladies, Historians

Eeva Irmeli Ahtisaari (née Hyvärinen, born 18 June 1936) is a Finnish teacher and historian. He was the First Lady of Finland from 1994 to 2000. She is married to the 10th President of Finland Martti Ahtisaari.

[[Bells, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Bells is a city in Grayson County, Texas, United States.

[[Dorchester, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Dorchester is a city in Grayson County, Texas, United States.

[[List of prime ministers of Finland]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Finland

This is a list of prime ministers of Finland since the establishment of that office in 1917.

[[Knollwood, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Knollwood is a city in Grayson County, Texas, United States.

[[Sadler, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Sadler is a city in Grayson County, Texas, United States.

[[Southmayd, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Southmayd is a city in Grayson County, Texas, United States.

[[Whitesboro, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Whitesboro is a city in Grayson County, Texas, United States.

[[Juha Sipilä]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Finland, Speakers of the Parliament of Finland

Juha Petri Sipilä (ˈjuhɑ ˈpetri ˈsipilæ; born 25 April 1961) is a Finnish politician. He was  Prime Minister of Finland from 2015 to 2019. He was the leader of the Centre Party from 2012 to 2019.

[[Mari Kiviniemi]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Finland

Mari Johanna Kiviniemi (born 27 September 1968) is a Finnish politician. She is the second female Prime Minister of Finland from 2010 to 2011.

On 25 August 2014, she became Deputy Secretary-General of the OECD.

[[Esko Aho]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Finland, Speakers of the Parliament of Finland

Esko Tapani Aho (born 20 May 1954) is a Finnish politician. He was Prime Minister of Finland from 1991 to 1995.

[[Anu Vehviläinen]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Speakers of the Parliament of Finland

Anu Helena Vehviläinen (born 9 September 1963) is a Finnish politician for the Centre Party. She became Speaker of the Finnish Parliament in 2020. She was Finland's Minister of Local Government and Public Reforms from 2015 to 2019 as Minister of Transport from May to June 2019; and as Minister of Transport from 2007 to 2011.

[[Olli Rehn]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, European Union politicians, Finnish politicians

Olli Ilmari Rehn (ˈolːi ˈreːn; born 31 March 1962) is a Finnish politician. He became Governor of the Bank of Finland in 2018. He is a member of the Centre Party. 

Rehn was Minister of Economic Affairs in Juha Sipilä's cabinet from 2015 until 2016, the European Commissioner for Enlargement from 2004 to 2010 and European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Euro from 2010 to 2014.

[[Greater Austin]]

CATEGORIES: Austin, Texas, Metropolitan areas of the United States

Austin–Round Rock–San Marcos (or Greater Austin) is a five county metropolitan area in the U.S. state of Texas.

[[Pekka Haavisto]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, LGBT politicians, Finnish politicians, Gay men

Pekka Olavi Haavisto (born 23 March 1958) is a Finnish politician. He is a member of the Green League. He became the Minister for Foreign Affairs since 2019. 

Haavisto ran for President of Finland in 2012 and 2018. Haavisto became the first openly gay candidate to run for the presidency of Finland.

[[Hacienda Heights, California]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Hacienda Heights is an unincorporated suburban community  in Los Angeles County, California, United States.

[[Paul Warfield]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Cleveland Browns players, Miami Dolphins players, Sportspeople from Ohio, American football wide receivers

Paul Dryden Warfield (born November 28, 1942) is an American former professional football player. He was a wide receiver in the National Football League (NFL) from 1964 to 1977 for the Cleveland Browns and Miami Dolphins.

[[James McDivitt]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, American aviators, American engineers, American astronauts, Scientists from Chicago

James Alton  McDivitt (born June 10, 1929) is an American former test pilot, United States Air Force (USAF) pilot, aeronautical engineer, and NASA astronaut. He flew in the Gemini and Apollo programs.

[[Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, MEPs for Germany, People from Frankfurt

Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul (born 21 November 1942) is a German politician. She is a member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD). From 1979 until 1987, she was a member of the European Parliament. Between 1998 until 2009, she was Federal Minister of Economic Cooperation and Development.

[[List of presidents of Finland]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Finland

This article is a list of Presidents of Finland.

[[Risto Ryti]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1956 deaths, Presidents of Finland, Prime Ministers of Finland

Risto Heikki Ryti (ˈristo ˈhei̯kːi ˈryti; 3 February 1889 – 25 October 1956) was a Finnish politician. He was the fifth President of Finland from 1940 to 1944. He was also the 14th Prime Minister of Finland between 1939 until 1940.

[[Titanium dioxide]]

CATEGORIES: Oxides

Chemical compound

Titanium dioxide, also known as titanium(IV) oxide or titania t, is the naturally occurring oxide of titanium, chemical formula TiO. When used as a pigment, it is called titanium white, Pigment White 6 (PW6), or CI 77891. Generally, it is made from ilmenite, rutile, and anatase. It has a lot of uses, including paint, sunscreen, and food coloring. When used as a food coloring, it has E number E171. 9 million tonnes of it were made in the world in 2014. It is used in around two-thirds of all pigments, and pigments based on the oxide have a total value of around $13.2 billion.

[[Najla Bouden Romdhane]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Tunisia, Academics, Geologists

Najla Bouden Romdhane (نجلاء بودن رمضان; born 1958) is a Tunisian geologist, academic and politician. She has been the designated Prime Minister of Tunisia since 29 September 2021. She is set to be the the first female prime minister in the Arab world. She was Minister for Higher Education in 2011.

[[Omayr]]

Omayr (عُمَيْر) also known by the kunya Abu Wahab (ابو واہاب) was a Christian soldier, who fought in the Battle of Karbala. Omayr either belonged to the tribe of Banu al-Alim or the tribe of Banu Kalb. He is known as the 'Christian Martyr of Karbala'.

Before being a soldier, Omayr was a well known businessman of Kufa. Omayr is well-known for his courage and soldierly experience. Omayr was a tall and masculine man with broad shoulders, who was held with very high esteem among his people.

[[Catherine Tresa]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1989 births, People from Dubai

Catherine Tresa Alexander (born 10 September 1989) is an Indian actress and model. She has established her career predominantly in the Tamil and Telugu cinema and has also appeared in few Malayalam and Kannada films. She has won Edison Awards (India) and has been nominated for four Filmfare Awards South.

[[Men's League for Women's Suffrage (United Kingdom)]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 establishments in England, Feminism, Organisations based in London

The Men's League for Women's Suffrage was a society formed in 1907 in London and was part of the women's suffrage movement in the United Kingdom.

[[Shintaro Abe]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1991 deaths, Japanese politicians, Deaths from heart failure

Shintaro Abe was a Japanese politician. He was a leading member of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). He was foreign minister from 1982 to 1986. He was the father of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.

Abe was hospitalized in January 1991. He died of heart failure at a Tokyo hospital on May 15, 1991 at aged 67.

[[The Million Dollar Hotel]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 drama movies, German drama movies, American drama movies, British drama movies, Movies directed by Wim Wenders

The Million Dollar Hotel is a 2000 German American British drama movie directed by Wim Wenders and starring Jeremy Davies, Milla Jovovich, Mel Gibson, Jimmy Smits, Gloria Stuart, Amanda Plummer, Julian Sands, Peter Stormare, Conrad Roberts. It also features the music of Bono.

[[Red Rickshaw Revolution]]

CATEGORIES: Women's organisations based in India

The Red Rickshaw Revolution (RRR) is an initiative launched by the Vodafone Foundation, India.  It empowers women for social development in India. It was started, when three women departed from Delhi to reach Mumbai, riding a red autorickshaw. This journey of 1500 kms was started on 9 March 2013 and ended on 18 March 2013. The rickshaws passed through Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra to raise money for NGOs working to empower Indian women. 

[[Zishan Alam]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Businesspeople

Zishan Alam (born 15 June 1997) is an Indian entrepreneur and businessperson. He has been practicing this for the last 4 years and has solved problems for small-scale businesses and brands.

[[Dilemma of Two Angels]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 movies, 1940s crime movies, 1940s comedy movies, French crime movies, French comedy movies, Movies directed by Maurice Tourneur

Dilemma of Two Angels (French: Impasse des Deux Anges) is a 1948 French crime comedy movie directed by Maurice Tourneur and starring Paul Meurisse, Simone Signoret, Marcel Herrand, Paul Demange, Jacques Castelot, Marcelle Praince, Paul Amiot, Reggie Nalder, Lucas Gridoux.

[[Jami' al-tawarikh]]

CATEGORIES: 14th-century history books, Persian literature, Persian art

The Jāmiʿ al-tawārīkh (Persian/Arabic: جامع التواريخ, a complete History) is a work of literature and history, produced in the Mongol Ilkhanate. Written by Rashid-al-Din Hamadani (1247–1318 AD) at the start of the 14th century, large coverage of the work has caused it to be called "the first world history". It was in three volumes and published in Arabic and Persian versions.

The surviving portions total approximately 400 pages of the original work. The work describes cultures and major events in world history from China to Europe; in addition, it covers Mongol history, as a way of establishing their cultural legacy.

The early illustrated manuscripts  represent "one of the most important surviving examples of persian art in any medium", and are the largest surviving body of early examples of the Persian miniature.

[[Pranati Nayak]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people

Pranati Nayak is an Indian artistic gymnast. She was born on 6 April 1995. She earned a bronze medal on vault at the 2019 Asian Artistic Gymnastics Championships. Until 2019, She was trained and mentored by Minara Begum. When Minara Begum got retired from the Sports Authority of India, she was trained by Laxman Manohar Sharma. She was the only Indian gymnast to qualify for the 2020 Olympics.She is the daughter of a bus driver.

Nayak earned a continental quota spot to the 2020 Summer Olympics after the cancellation of the 2021 Asian Championships.

[[Ivan Zak]]

CATEGORIES: Veterinarians

Ivan Zakharenkov, also known as Dr Ivan Zak, is a Canadian veterinarian and businessman. He is a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine.

He lives and works in Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada.

[[I've Always Loved You]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s romance movies, 1940s drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Frank Borzage

I've Always Loved You is a 1946 American romantic drama movie directed by Frank Borzage and starring Philip Dorn, Catherine McLeod, Elizabeth Patterson, Vanessa Brown, Maria Ouspenskaya, Felix Bressart, Adele Mara. It was distributed by Republic Pictures.

[[My Dog Shep]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 movies, 1940s drama movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Ford Beebe

My Dog Shep is a 1946 American drama movie directed by Ford Beebe and starring Flame, William Franum, Russell Simpson, Sarah Padden, Al St. John, Tom Neal, Craig Reynolds, Paul E. Burns. It was followed by Shep Comes Home in 1948 also directed by Ford Beebe.

[[Callimedusa duellmani]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The purple and orange leaf frog (Calllimedusa duellmani) is a frog that lives in Peru. Scientists have only seen it in one place.

[[Captain Marvel (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 movies, American movies, English-language movies

Captain Marvel is a 2019 American superhero movie based on Marvel Comics, featuring the character Carol Canves / Captain Marvel. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. The movie starring by Brie Larson, Samuel L. Jackson, Ben Mendelsohn, Lee Pace, and much more.

A sequel called The Marvels, released in 2022.

[[Nari Shakti Puraskar]]

CATEGORIES: India, Women's rights

Nari Shakti Puraskar (Women's empowerment award) is an annual award given by the Ministry of Women and Child Development of the Government of India, to individual women or institutions regarding women's empowerment. It is the highest level of award given to women in India. The awards are presented by the President of India, on International women's day (8 March) and is usually organised at the Rashtrapati Bhawan in New Delhi.

The awards were first organised in 1999. During that time, a title Stree Shakti Puraskar (Women's empowerment award) was used. Later, in 2015, the present title was used. 

These are given in 6 institutional and 2 individual categories. The institutional category of awards has a cash prize of rupees 2 lakhs INR. The individual category of awards has rupees 1 lakh INR.

[[Polyamory]]

Polyamory is the practice of being in a romantic or sexual relationship with more than one partner. People who are polyamorous may be in an open relationship or may be in a closed group, which is also known as polyfidelity. The word polyamory can be used as an umbrella term for relationships that are not monogamous, have multiple partners, or are non-exclusive.

[[Mohit Churiwal]]

Mohit Churiwal is a Surat-based Author and Business Person who is primarily known for his Company MaxternMedia, Which he started in Late 2018's. He rose to fame after he started his Instagram page, Soon after he came online, people started following him. The Magnate is quite famous among the Surat's audience.

[[GFMS]]

GFMS (formally Gold Fields Mineral Services) are research and consultancy company for metal markets. Since 2011 they have been part of Thomson Reuters. As well as other commodities, they research gold, silver, platinum, palladium, and copper trading.

[[Cprime, Inc]]

CATEGORIES: Companies

Cprime, Inc is a global agile and technology consulting firm. The company was founded in 2003, and headquartered in San Mateo, California. Cprime specializes in agile transformations, product development, and technology integrations. The company has offices in North America, Europe, and Asia.

[[Emerdata Limited]]

Emerdata Limited is a political consulting company in London, formed in 2017. Ex-employees of Cambridge Analytica and SCL moved to successor firms, these companies dissolved with acquisition by holding company Emerdata Limited. The company is now owned by Rebekah Mercer and Jennifer Mercer according to Cambridge Analytica's bankruptcy filing in New York. Cambridge Analytica was before owned by their family, including their father Robert Mercer, a computer scientist. In July 2018 the Emerdata director was Jacquelyn James-Varga. The Federal Trade Commission of the United States has imposed to sue Cambridge Analytica after misusing data scraped from 87 million social media users. The company was soon bought by Emerdata Limited after the news on misappropriation of digital assets was publicized.

[[Arundhati Reddy]]

CATEGORIES: Indian people, 1997 births, Cricketers

Arundhati Reddy is an Indian cricketer. She was born on 4 October 1997. In August 2018, she was selected in the Indian Women's team for a series against Sri Lanka. On 19 September 2018, she played her first T20 International cricket (WT20I) against Sri Lanka.

In October 2018, she was selected in Indian team for the 2018 ICC Women's World T20 tournament in the West Indies. In January 2020, she was selected in Indian team for the 2020 ICC Women's T20 World Cup in Australia.

In May 2021, she was a member of Indian women's cricket team for a single match against the England women's cricket team.

[[Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin, Door County, Wisconsin

Sturgeon Bay is a city in and the county seat of Door County, Wisconsin, United States. 9,144 people lived here at the 2010 census.

[[Bordighera]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Liguria

Bordighera is a comune in the Province of Imperia in the Liguria region in Italy. It is on the Italian Riviera.

[[Albenga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Liguria

Albenga is a comune in the Province of Savona in the Liguria region in Italy.

[[Avegno, Liguria]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Liguria

Avegno is a comune in the Metropolitan City of Genoa in the Liguria region in Italy.

[[Campo Ligure]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Liguria

Campo Ligure is a comune in the Metropolitan City of Genoa in the Liguria region in Italy.

[[Bargagli]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Liguria

Bargagli is a comune in the Metropolitan City of Genoa in the Liguria region in Italy.

[[Stanisław Szozda]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2013 deaths, Polish Olympic medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Polish sportspeople, Cyclists, Deaths from stomach cancer

Stanisław Szozda (25 September 1950 – 23 September 2013) was an elite Polish cyclist. He was born in Dobromierz, but since 1959 up until his death he has been living in Prudnik, where he graduated from primary school (1964) and agricultural engineering (1969). He started his career in the cycling club Zarzewie Prudnik. Franciszek Surmiński was his trainer there.

He won two Olympic silver medals at the 1972 and 1976 Summer Olympics. He ended his career after a spinal injury caused by a fall during the 1978 Peace Race.

Szozda died on 23 September 2013 at a hospital in Wrocław, Poland from stomach cancer, aged 62.

[[Neckarsulm]]

CATEGORIES: Neckarsulm, Cities in Baden-Württemberg

Neckarsulm is a city in the German state of Baden-Württemberg. It is part of the district of Heilbronn.

Neckarsulm has about 26,400 inhabitants and is near Stuttgart.

Schwarz Group, which operates the grocery retailers Lidl and Kaufland, is headquartered in Neckarsulm.

[[Dörfles-Esbach]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Dörfles-Esbach is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Ebersdorf bei Coburg]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Ebersdorf bei Coburg (officially: Ebersdorf b.Coburg) is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Großheirath]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Großheirath is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Grub am Forst]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Grub am Forst (officially: Grub a.Forst) is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[European green toad]]

CATEGORIES: Toads

European green toad is a species of toads found in steppes, mountainous seats. These species are placed in genus Bufotes. 

[[Milton, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Milton is a city in King and Pierce counties in the U.S. state of Washington.

[[Pacific, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state)

Pacific is a city in King and Pierce counties in the U.S. state of Washington.

[[Anneux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Anneux is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Annœullin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Annœullin is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Biała Prudnicka]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Poland

Biała Prudnicka is a town in Poland in Opole Voivodeship in Prudnik County. About 2,500 people live there. Its area is about 15 km².

[[Anstaing]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Anstaing is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Głogówek]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Poland

Głogówek is a town in Poland in Opole Voivodeship in Prudnik County. About 5,600 people live there. Its area is about 22 km².

[[Armentières]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Armentières is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Aubers]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Aubers is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Comines, Nord]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Comines is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Warneton]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Warneton is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Comines]]

Comines can mean:

[[Monchecourt]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Monchecourt is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Anzin]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Nord

Anzin is a commune. It is in the Nord department in northern France.

[[Hemlata Kala]]

CATEGORIES: Indian people, 1975 births, Cricketers

Hemlata Kala  is an Indian cricketer. She was born on 15 August 1975 in Agra, Uttar Pradesh. She has played seven women's test matches and 74 women's one-day internationals. She is a right-hand batsman and right-arm medium-fast bowler.She plays her domestic cricket for North Central Railway.

In July 1999, she played her first international test match against England.

In June 1999, she played her first One-Day International against Ireland.

[[Islamic feminism]]

CATEGORIES: Feminism, Islam, Pages with unreviewed translations

Feminism is the idea that different sexes and genders are equal in society; being of one sex or gender is different from being another sex or gender; no sex or gender is  better or worse than another. Feminism therefore wants women and men  to have equal status and equal rights in society. Islamic feminism tries to bring these  thoughts to countries with Muslim majorities. 

People who are in favor of the idea  also say that there are several countries with Muslim majorities, where women had important roles: There were female heads of state, prime ministers, and state secretaries. Examples of such women are Lala Shovkat of Azerbaijan, Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan, Mame Madior Boye of Senegal, Tansu Çiller of Turkey, Kaqusha Jashari of Kosovo, and Megawati Sukarnoputri of Indonesia. In Bangladesh, Khaleda Zia was elected the country's first female prime minister in 1991. She served as prime minister until 2009. Sheikh Hasina replaced her. Hasina is still prime minister in 2021. This makes Bangladesh the country with the longest continuous female premiership.

Unlike other feminists, which are usually secular, Islamic feminists want to use Islam and its teachings for their ideas.

One of the things Islamic feminists want to reach is that men and women are truly equal in all aspects of daily life, and in society. They also want to include non-Muslims in their view and debate. Islamic scholars see Islamic feminism as more radical as secular feminism, because it uses Islam with the Quran as its most important text. As a "school of thought" it refers to people such as Morocccan sociologist Fatema Mernissi and scholars such as Amina Wadud and Leila Ahmed.

[[São Cristóvão]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Sergipe

São Cristóvão is an Brazilian city in the state of Sergipe. 91,093 people lived here in 2020 and its area is 436.863 km².

[[Itzgrund]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Itzgrund is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Lautertal, Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Lautertal is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Meeder]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Meeder is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Sonnefeld]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Sonnefeld is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Untersiemau]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Untersiemau is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Weidhausen bei Coburg]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Weidhausen bei Coburg (officially: Weidhausen b. Coburg) is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Hylomantis aspera]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

The rough leaf frog (Hylomantis aspera) is a frog that lives in Bolivia, Peru, Colombia, Guyana, Brazil, Venezuela, French Guiana, and Ecuador, and it is most common in Suriname. Scientists have seen it up in the mountains, between 280 and 1000 meters above sea level.

[[Weitramsdorf]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Weitramsdorf is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Niederfüllbach]]

CATEGORIES: Coburg Rural District

Niederfüllbach is a municipality in the district of Coburg in Bavaria in Germany.

[[Phrynomedusa]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Animals of South America

Phrynomedusa is a genus of tree frogs from Brazil.  They live in the Southeast and South parts of Brazil. Scientists used to think these frogs were part of the genus Phyllomedusa, and thy called them the "Phyllomedusa fimbriata group." They are called colored leaf frogs and monkey frogs in English.

[[Heinrichsthal]]

CATEGORIES: Aschaffenburg (district)

Heinrichsthal is a municipality in the district of Aschaffenburg in Lower Franconia, Bavaria, Germany.

[[Hösbach]]

CATEGORIES: Aschaffenburg (district)

Hösbach is a market town in the district of Aschaffenburg in Lower Franconia, Bavaria, Germany.

[[Johannesberg, Bavaria]]

CATEGORIES: Aschaffenburg (district)

Johannesberg is a municipality in the district of Aschaffenburg in Lower Franconia, Bavaria, Germany.

[[J-Pimp (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1984 births, People from Florida

Joél Filsaime (born. September 20, 1984 in Boynton Beach, Florida), better known by his stage name J-Pimp, is an American rapper, songwriter, record producer. He is the second wealthiest person in Haiti.

He is best known for his consistent underground hip hop album releases from his independent record label D-Ploy Records in iTunes Store, including The Average Joe received positive reviews and nominated on the Billboard (magazine).

[[Carlisle Floyd]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2021 deaths, American composers, Writers from South Carolina

Carlisle Sessions Floyd (June 11, 1926spndSeptember 30, 2021) was an American opera composer. Many of his songs were based on his life living in the American South. His best known opera, Susannah (1955), is based on a story from the Biblical Apocrypha. He was born in Latta, South Carolina.

Floyd died in Tallahassee, Florida on September 30, 2021, at the age of 95.

[[Nobuo Kishi]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Politicians from Tokyo

Nobuo Kishi is a Japanese politician. He is a member of the House of Representatives since 2012. He is also the Minister of Defense since 2020. 

Kishi is a younger brother of former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, and a grandson of former Prime Minister Nobusuke Kishi.

[[Denain]]

Hey bestie

[[Bart After Dark]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons episodes, 1996 television episodes

"Bart After Dark" is the 5th episode of The Simpsons' 8th season. It was first broadcast on the Fox network on November 24, 1996. In the episode, Homer Simpson makes his son Bart work at a burlesque house. His wife Marge tries to get the house closed when she learns about it.

The episode was written by Richard Appel. Dominic Polcino is the director of the episode. The lady Bart works for is voiced by Tress MacNeille. The story of the episode is based on the movie The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas. The couch gag is a reference to the album cover of Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. About 8.2 million people watched the episode when it was first broadcast. A song from the episode won an Emmy Award, which was given to Ken Keeler and Alf Clausen. The song was later put in the album Go Simpsonic with The Simpsons.

[[Ambush (1950 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 movies, 1950s western movies, American western movies, MGM movies, Movies directed by Sam Wood

Ambush is a 1950 American western movie directed by Sam Wood and was based on the serial story of the same name by Luke Short. It stars Robert Taylor, Arlene Dahl, John Hodiak, Don Taylor, Jean Hagen, Leon Ames, John McIntire and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.

