[[Great Attractor]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxy clusters

The Great Attractor (GA) is a gigantic mass in space which pulls our Milky Way galaxy, and many other galaxies towards it.p60 

The Great Attractor is known by its effect on the movement of galaxies across hundreds of millions of light years (mly). Its mass is equivalent to the mass of tens of thousands of Milky Ways.

All the galaxies in the GA are redshifted, in accordance with the expansion of the Universe. They are receding relative to us and to each other, but the variations in their redshift show the existence of the Attractor. The variations in their redshifts  range from about +700 km/s to -700 km/s, depending on where they are in relation to the Great Attractor.

[[Cubs Win Flag]]

CATEGORIES: Chicago Cubs, 1937 establishments in the United States, 1930s establishments in Illinois

The Cubs Win Flag is a flag that is flown at Wrigley Field after every Chicago Cubs home win. The flag is called by about a dozen names.  These names usually include several of the following words; either Cubs or Chicago Cubs; Win, W, White, White W, or W Win; and flag, banner or banner flag. Other common names for the symbol include Cubs Win Banner Flag.  It has become an important symbol for fans. Days when the win flag is flown are known as "White Flag Days". The tradition of flying a win or loss flag over the stadium began soon after the scoreboard was built in 1937.

The flag has used two different colors with the letter "W" on a solid background.  The flag used now is white with a blue "W." There is a flag used for losses with a letter "L".  This flag is blue with a white "L" on it.  Additionally, lights are shone on the flags that show if it was a win or loss. A new flag is used for each win. Some stores sell versions of the flag that also have the Cubs logo at the bottom.

[[Wrigley Field]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball venues, Sports buildings in Chicago, Illinois, Chicago Cubs, 1914 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in Illinois, Landmarks in Chicago

Wrigley Field is a sports stadium, the baseball park where the Chicago Cubs play in Major League Baseball. The ballpark is in Chicago, Illinois. The Cubs have been playing there since 1916.

The ballpark is on the north side of Chicago. It is on a block bounded by Addison Street, Clark Street, Waveland Avenue, and Sheffield Avenue. It was built in 1914 for the Chicago Whales of the Federal League. The Federal League disbanded after the 1915 season. The Cubs moved from their previous home, West Side Park, to this ballpark in 1916.

The Chicago Bears of the National Football League played their home games at Wrigley Field from 1921 through 1970. They moved to Soldier Field in 1971.

Wrigley Field has also hosted events such as soccer and hockey. It has also been used as a filming location for some Hollywood movies.

The ballpark has a "cozy" feel. Fans often call it "The Friendly Confines". That nickname was made famous by former Cubs player Ernie Banks.

There was also a Wrigley Field in Los Angeles, built by the same people who built Wrigley Field in Chicago.

The park was designated a National Historic Landmark in November 2020.

[[Zone of Avoidance]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies

The Zone of Avoidance (ZOA) is the area of the night sky that is obscured by our own galaxy, the Milky Way.

Dust and stars in the plane of the Milky Way (the galactic plane) block our view of about 20% of the sky at visible wavelengths. As a result, optical galaxy catalogues are usually very incomplete close to the galactic plane.

[[Norma Cluster]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxy clusters

The Norma Cluster (ACO 3627 or Abell 3627) is a rich cluster of galaxies near the center of the Great Attractor.  

It is both nearby and bright; but it is difficult to observe because it is in the Zone of Avoidance. This is a region near the plane of the Milky Way, which obscures our view. The cluster is hidden by interstellar dust at optical wavelengths. Its mass is estimated to be on the order of 1015 solar masses.

[[Lewis acid]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

The concept of Lewis acid and Lewis base is one of acids and bases, which is independent of the idea of protons. Gilbert Newton Lewis developed this idea in the early 20th century. In this concept, a Lewis acid can accept and bind electrons. Lewis acid is a substance that accepts two electrons to form a covalent bond. A Lewis base is a substance that gives two electrons in the bonding. A Lewis acid together with a Lewis base will  react to make a compound called a Lewis adduct.

[[Shamrock Rovers F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Irish football clubs, Sport in Dublin

Shamrock Rovers Football Club (Irish: Cumann Peile Ruagairí na Seamróige) is a football club from Dublin, Ireland. They play in the Premier Division of the League of Ireland. The club is the most successful in Ireland's football history.

[[Galactic plane]]

CATEGORIES: Celestial mechanics

The galactic plane is the plane in which most of a disk-shaped galaxy's mass lies. 

The directions perpendicular to the galactic plane point to the galactic poles. In actual use, the terms "galactic plane" and "galactic poles" usually refer specifically to the plane and poles of the Milky Way, the galaxy where the Earth is.

Some galaxies are irregular and do not have any well-defined disk. Even in the case of a spiral galaxy like the Milky Way, defining the galactic plane is imprecise since the stars are not perfectly in the plane. 

[[CfA2 Great Wall]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxy clusters

The Great Wall is one of the largest known super-structures in the Universe.

It is a huge group of galaxies about 200 million light-years away. The Great Wall is like a long, thin line filament: it is over 500 million light-years long, 300 million light-years wide, but only 15 million light-years thick. It was discovered in 1989 from redshift survey data.

We do not know how much farther the wall extends. Our view is blocked by the galactic plane of the Milky Way. The gas and dust from the Milky Way (known as the Zone of Avoidance) obscures the view of astronomers. This makes it impossible to find out if the wall ends or continues on further. 

In the standard model of the evolution of the universe, such structures as the Great Wall form along and follow web-like strings of dark matter. It is thought that this dark matter dictates the structure of the Universe on the grandest of scales. Dark matter gravitationally attracts baryonic matter, and it is this 'normal' matter that astronomers see forming long, thin walls of super-galactic clusters.

[[Local Group]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxy clusters, Local galaxies

The Local Group is the group of galaxies that includes our galaxy, the Milky Way. 

The group has more than 50 galaxies (including dwarf galaxies).  Its center of mass is somewhere between the Milky Way and the Andromeda galaxy.  The galaxies of the Local Group cover a 10 million light-year diameter and have a binary (dumbbell) shape. The group has a total mass of about (1.29 ± 0.14)12Ms.

The group itself is part of the Virgo Supercluster (also called the Local Supercluster).

[[Hydron]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

In chemistry a proton is a positively charged hydrogen ion. According to IUPAC, the name hydron should be used for such a particle. In this sense, a hydron can be a proton in the sense of physics, a deuteron or a triton. A deuteron is the ion of deuterium, a triton that of tritium. (So chemists use the term hydron  because it covers all three hydrogen ion isotopes.) In 1923, Johannes Nicolaus Brønsted and Thomas Lowry used hydrons to  describe acids and bases. They defined acids as proton donors and bases as proton acceptors.

[[Hexactinellid]]

CATEGORIES: Sponges

Hexactinellid sponges are sponges with a skeleton made of four- and/or six-pointed silaceous spicules, often referred to as glass sponges. They are usually classified along with other sponges, but some researchers consider them sufficiently distinct to deserve their own phylum, Symplasma.

[[Demosponge]]

CATEGORIES: Sponges

The Demospongiae are the largest class in the phylum Porifera. Their skeletons are made of spicules consisting of fibers of the protein spongin, the mineral silica, or both. Where spicules of silica are present, they have a different shape from those in the otherwise similar glass sponges.

[[University Finis Terrae]]

CATEGORIES: Private Chilean universities, Colleges and universities in Chile, 1988 establishments in South America, 1980s establishments in Chile

University Finis Terrae (Universidad Finis Terrae) is a private autonomous university in Santiago de Chile.

[[Universidad Mayor, Chile]]

CATEGORIES: Private Chilean universities, Colleges and universities in Chile, 1988 establishments in South America, 1980s establishments in Chile

Universidad Mayor is a private autonomous university in Chile with headquarters in Santiago and a secondary campus in Temuco.

[[University of the Pacific]]

CATEGORIES: Private Chilean universities, Colleges and universities in Chile, 1990 establishments in Chile

University of the Pacific (Universidad del Pacífico) is a private autonomous university in Chile. It has three headquarters in Santiago, one in Melipilla, and an office in Concepción.

[[Tentaculata]]

CATEGORIES: Ctenophores

Tentaculata is a class of comb jellies. The common feature of this class is a pair of long, feathery, contractile tentacles, which can be retracted into specialised ciliated sheaths. In some species, the primary tentacles are reduced and they have smaller, secondary tentacles. The tentacles have colloblasts, which are sticky-tipped cells that trap small prey.

[[Shōchū]]

CATEGORIES: Alcoholic drink, Japanese food

Shōchū is a typical Japanese alcoholic drink. It is usually around 25 - 37 % alcohol. Shōchū is made often from barley, rice,  sweet potato, buckwheat, and sugar cane. It is made in many places in Japan, but started in Kyūshū. People drink it mixed with cool or hot water, over ice, in cocktails, or straight. Shōchū is different from nihonshu, or sake. Rice shōchū is made from sake by increasing the purity of alcohol. Shochu comes in a wide variety flavors according to ingredients.

[[Awamori]]

CATEGORIES: Fermented drinks, Okinawa Prefecture

Awamori is an alcoholic drink from Okinawa, Japan. Awamori is made from rice. It is fermented and distilled. Awamori is similar to shōchū, but very different from nihonshu, or sake. The amount of alcohol in Awamori is usually between 30% and 43% and sometimes up to 60%. After distillation, the drink is ready for bottling and drinking, but as a rule it is aged in ceramic containers for better taste. Ordinary varieties Awamori, are aged about 6 months, but are made and much more aged varieties - 20 and 25 years of aging. Small amounts of drinks made with addition of various spices, ginseng, and even canned snake.

People in Okinawa enjoy drinking Awamori with friends, families and so on. It is popular with tourists as a souvenir.

Most of the people in Okinawa drink Awamori with ice and water. Some people drink with it Jasmine tea, which is called Sanpincha in Okinawa. It makes the taste of Awamori better.

Awamori can improve if its maker takes time to let it mature. If it is matured a long time, the taste becomes mellow and its smell becomes sweet.

In the 19th century, ships from England, France and the United States reached the Ryūkyū Islands, and awamori was served to the crews.

[[Greyson Chance]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Living people, American pianists, musicians from Texas, singers from Texas

Greyson Michael Chance (born August 16, 1997) is a musician and a pianist. He became famous for his cover (his version) of the song "Paparazzi" by Lady Gaga in a sixth-grade music festival. The cover reached about 700 million views on Youtube in April 2010. He was later discovered by Ellen DeGeneres and was a guest on her show 2 times. His first debut single is "Waiting Outside the Lines" which was released on October 2010. His first debut album called Hold on 'till the Night was later released on August 2, 2011.

[[Eephus pitch]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball

An Eephus pitch is a kind of pitch in baseball. It is a kind of "junk pitch" (trick pitch). An Eephus pitch is very slow and is used to catch the batter off guard. The pitch was invented by Rip Sewell of the Pittsburgh Pirates in the 1940s. The name Eephus pitch comes from the Hebrew word efes, which means "nothing." Pirates manager Frankie Frisch claimed that the pitch was named by outfielder Maurice Van Robays. Van Robays explained that "Eephus ain't nothing, and that's a nothing pitch."

== Common features == 

The Eephus pitch is thrown overhand, like other pitches in baseball. It is unusually slow, and has a high arc trajectory (the ball travels along a high curve.) The trajectory (the path the ball travels) looks more like a pitch from slow-pitch softball than baseball. 

The Eephus pitch is unusually slow. It appears to move in slow motion. The ball travels 55 or less. Baseball pitches in Major League Baseball usually travel between 70. The Eephus pitch is considered a trick pitch because it is so slow.

[[University of Antofagasta]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Chile, 1981 establishments in Chile, Antofagasta

The University of Antofagasta (Universidad de Antofagasta) is a university in Antofagasta, Chile. It is one of the universities in the north of Chile.

[[Siméon Denis Poisson]]

CATEGORIES: French mathematicians, 1781 births, 1840 deaths, Alumni of the École Polytechnique

Siméon Denis Poisson ( 21 June 1781 in Pithiviers - 25 April 1840 in Sceaux, near Paris) was a French mathematician and physicist. From 1798 he studied mathematics at the  École Polytechnique, where he met Pierre-Simon Laplace and Joseph-Louis Lagrange. In 1802 he became professor, in 1806 he took the position Jean Baptiste Joseph Fourier had before him. Napoleon sent Fourier to Grenoble. Poisson was a disciple of Laplace. Poisson worked on the mathematical bases of wave theory, acoustics, elasticity, electricity and heat. He was also interested in the electric properties of solids. In 1812, he published his extension of Laplace's equation, which allowed its use for electric charge at the surface of solids. In the year 1818, he predicted the existence of a phenomenon called the Poisson spot, in the case that light should have the character of a wave. Poisson thought that was not the case and that it had the character of particles. He had long discussions with Augustin-Jean Fresnel, who thought that light was indeed a wave. This discussion only ended when Fresnel could show the existence of the spot Poisson had predicted in an experiment. In 1838, Poisson published his ideas on probability theory, which also included what is now known as Poisson distribution. This distribution was already known to Abraham de Moivre. 

The relation between pressure and volume in the adiabatic process is constant, this is known as Poisson's Law today. In thermodynamics, the same relation is formulated as a number of equations, which are known as Poisson's equations. Poisson's ratio which gives the amount an object is stretched under load, is also named after him. 

His name is one of 72 honored on the Eiffel tower.

[[Rotavirus]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses, Viruses

Rotavirus is a virus that causes diarrhoea. Most of the time only children who are younger than five years old get the disease. The signs of the disease are severe diarrhoea and vomiting, which start suddenly and last for two or three days. Rotavirus also causes diarrhoea in animals. A vaccine, which prevents children from getting the disease is available in many countries.

Like most viruses, rotaviruses are made from RNA and protein. The RNA carries the genes that are used to make more rotaviruses. They are called rotaviruses because they sometimes look like little wheels and "rota" is the latin word for "wheel". Rotaviruses get into the body through the mouth and are not present in the air like the viruses that cause colds. The disease is most often spread by dirty hands and things used for cooking, but the viruses can contaminate water. Rotaviruses are very small. They are a lot smaller than bacteria and can only be seen using an electron microscope. 

Children who have not been vaccinated usually get infected more than once. But when children are about five years old they are usually immune and cannot get it any more. This is because their bodies have become resistant to the viruses.

Rotaviruses infect the cells that the small intestine is made from. This makes it difficult for the body to digest food. Children usually make a complete recovery from the infection. But it is very important to make sure they drink enough water to replace what they are losing. In many countries the medicine used is called "oral rehydration solution". This comes in a small packet that is added to drinking water. It contains salt and sugar, which helps the body take up the water.

Rotaviruses were discovered in the 1970s.  Since then doctors and scientists have shown that they are a problem to children all over the world. More than 500,000 children die from rotavirus infection each year and almost two million more become severely ill.  The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation are helping to pay for rotavirus vaccines in countries that cannot afford to buy them. Between 2006 and 2011 he gave more than 82 million US dollars.

[[Croatian National Resistance]]

CATEGORIES: Nationalist organizations in Europe, Yugoslavia, Establishments in Croatia, 1955 establishments in Europe

The Croatian National Resistance (Hrvatski narodni odpor, further Odpor) was a terrorist Ustaše emigrant organization. The goal of this organization was to destroy Yugoslavia and to establish an independent Croatia, following the vision of Ustaše leader Ante Pavelić and ideology of Mile Budak.  It was founded in 1955 by escaped Ustaše war criminal Vjekoslav Luburić, a chief  guard of the Jasenovac concentration camp.

While Luburić was the head of this organization, Odpor maintained regular contacts with associations of Nazi war veterans in Germany and Spain. Very close relations were established with fascist Spanish "Blue Guard" veterans. Odpor had stated that:

"We regard Yugoslavism and Yugoslavia as the greatest and only evil that has caused the existing calamity ... We therefore consider every direct or indirect help to Yugoslavia as treason against the Croatian nation ... Yugoslavia must be destroyed - be it with the help of the Russians or the Americans, of Communists, non-Communists or anti-Communists - with the help of anyone willing the destruction of Yugoslavia: destroyed by the dialectic of the word, or by dynamite - but at all costs destroyed."

Odpor had its Australian branch based in Melbourne. It was linked to the Odpor headquarters in Spain and to other arms of the Ustashe movement around the world. The Australian branch was led by Ustashe Srecko Blaz Rover

Odpor was heavily involved in racketeering, attempted murder, extortion, hijacking, terrorist bombing, and other violent crimes. After Luburić's death, his successors on the organization commanding post, sought out criminal organization ties with La Cosa Nostra, the Provisional Irish Republican Army, and the Croatian Mafia in San Pedro.

Odpor most spectacular action was the 10 September 1976 hijacking of Trans World Airlines flight, en route from New York to Chicago. Odpor's five hijackers diverted the plane to Newfoundland, from there to Iceland, and ultimately to Paris with  passengers aboard. The terrorists had planted a bomb in Grand Central Station. After authorities met the terrorists' demands, the bomb location was revealed. The bomb deactivation killed one policeman and another three wounded, when they tried to deactivate it. After terrorists learned that the bomb in New York had exploded and killed a policeman, they surrendered to French police.

The leaders of the hijackers of TWA Flight 355, Zvonko Bušić and his wife, Julienne Bušić, were both convicted on U.S. federal charges of air piracy and murder in May 1977 and sentenced to life imprisonment.

Julienne Bušić was released from prison on lifelong parole in 1989. Zvonko Bušić briefly escaped from prison on 16 March 1987 but was quickly captured two days later. Julienne Bušić was appointed by President Franjo Tudjman to the diplomatic post of adviser to the Croatian ambassador to the United States. This appointment of a convicted terrorist to a diplomatic post within the United States drew protests in December 1994 from the New York Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association as well as from Kathlyn Murray, the widow of the police officer killed by the bomb in Grand Central Station in 1976.

Her husband, Zvonko Bušić, was paroled in July 2008 and expelled from the U.S. to Croatia.

In 1980es Odpor carried out five bombings in the United States. Bombed were (causing no injuries):

Odpor was banned in Germany for terrorist activities and operated between legitimate emigre functions and a thuggish underworld. Its leaders tried to distance the organization from the acts of the so-called renegade elements that hijacked international flights and served prison sentences for extortion. It embraced a radical nationalist ideology that differed only marginally from Ustaše ideology.

A number of terrorist attacks against Yugoslavia were organized by this Ustaše organization. They were Miro Barešić's killing of ambassador Vladimir Rolović, bomb attacks in Belgrade cinemas, terrorist group actions in Krajina region during the Croatian Spring of 1971, and the JAT Flight 367 bombing of 1972.

The organization published its own magazine, Drina. Odpor was dissolved in 1991.

[[Karel Plíhal]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Czech musicians, Czech poets, Singer-songwriters

Karel Plíhal (born August 23, 1958 in Přerov, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech folk musician, singer, songwriter, poet and record producer.

[[D.C. United Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Soccer in the United States

The D.C. United Academy is a program for young soccer players that is run by D.C. United, a pro soccer team that plays in Major League Soccer. The "Academy" trains these young soccer players to possibly one day play soccer either in a pro league or in college. 

D.C. United's Academy has several different levels, including, a U-23 team, a U-18 team, a U-16 team and then "Pre-Academy" teams. Pre-Academy teams are for players who are not yet part of the Academy on a normal schedule. 

The teams compete in the United States Soccer Federations' Development Academy league.

[[Bat-and-ball games]]

CATEGORIES: Team sports

Bat-and-ball games are field games played by two teams. They are also known as safe haven (safe zone) games, because players generally score points and take risks by running between various safe zones in the field. These teams take turns "batting" and "fielding." The team that is batting can score. The team that is fielding is defending. Both teams have equal chances batting and fielding. Bat-and-ball games are not timed, but are counted (such as by number of "innings" or "rounds".)

The name bat-and-ball games comes from some common parts of most of these games. In most games, a player on the fielding team puts a ball into play, mostly by throwing the ball. (How the player does this depends on the game's rules.) Then a player on the batting team tries to hit the ball, usually with a "bat." A bat is a kind of club, though the size and shape depend on the rules. This player can then run between the safe zones in the field to score points, though the fielding team can use the ball on the player from the batting team, or a target in one of the safe zones, to get the player "out" if they are not in a safe zone. (In cricket, a player who is out can not score points for the rest of their team's scoring turn, while in other bat-and-ball sports, they might have to wait before batting again.) Thus, the further the batting player can hit the ball away from the defensive players, the more points they are likely to be able to score. 

The two most popular bat-and-ball games in the world are cricket and baseball. Games like golf and hockey, which also use clubs, are not bat-and-ball games. (In golf, there are no teams. In hockey, the teams do not take turns "batting" and "fielding.")

[[Virus classification]]

CATEGORIES: Viruses

Virus classification is the way viruses are put into groups by scientists.

There are many different kinds of viruses. Scientists classify viruses to make it easier to learn about them. Classification also helps scientists to remember viruses and the diseases they cause. The International Committee of Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) is in charge of virus classification. 

Sometimes different viruses have things in common. This is used in classification. For example, if they are made from DNA and protein, or RNA and protein. Other things that are taken into account are the size and shape of the viruses and the diseases they cause.

Similar viruses are first put into "families". Each family has a name. This family name always ends with "-viridae. For example, rotaviruses are in the Reoviridae family and herpes viruses are in the Herpesviridae family.

Viruses in any one family that are almost the same are then put in a smaller group called a "genus".

Another way of classifying viruses is called the Baltimore Classification. This is different from the ICTV one. Some scientists prefer the Baltimore Classification because it is based on how viruses grow in cells. 

[[Enterovirus]]

CATEGORIES: Viruses

Enteroviruses are a group of viruses that usually live in the gut of humans and other mammals. Most do not cause disease there. They can cause a mild form of meningitis, which is an infection near the brain. Some members of this group of viruses, such as poliovirus, can sometimes be more dangerous. They are viruses made for RNA and there are many different kinds of them.

[[Explode (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs

"Explode" is a song recorded by American musician Patrick Stump. The track is the opening song on his debut studio album Soul Punk. The song was leaked on his YouTube channel on May 6, 2011 for promotion towards his album.

==Background== 

On May 6, 2011, Stump updated his website and also posted to his Facebook and Twitter, announcing "I feel like I'm gonna explode 5.9.11". The phrase came from a song called "Explode", which Stump had premiered at a live show. The new song was revealed on May 9, 2011. Stump released the song on a website called Vulture. NyMag.com commented that the song is a lot like the music of Michael Jackson. They also said that it was similar to the music of Stump's old band, Fall Out Boy. The song's video caption, which read "Soul Punk: coming late Summer", was Stump's first official announcement to the public regarding Soul Punk's release date.

Idolator reported that "Explode" features Stump's unique, recognisable vocals and the clever wordplay that used to be expected from Pete Wentz.

[[Kingdom of Italy (1861–1946)]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in Italy, 20th century in Italy, Former monarchies in Italy

The Kingdom of Italy was the Italian state from the Italian unification in 1861 to its defeat in WW2 and dissolution in 1946 when it became the modern day Italian Republic.

[[New Jersey Turnpike]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in the United States, Transport in New Jersey

The New Jersey Turnpike is a toll road in New Jersey. The road runs from near the Delaware Memorial Bridge in the southern part of the state northeast to near the George Washington Bridge in the northern part of the state near New York City. The northern part of the road is a part of Interstate 95. The New Jersey Turnpike is one of the busiest toll roads in the United States.

[[Selectivity]]

Selectivity may refer to:

[[Jordan at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Jordan, Nations at the Olympics

Jordan at the Olympicsis a history which began in 1980.

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Jordan is JOR.

[[Kazakhstan at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Nations at the Olympics, Sport in Kazakhstan

Kazakhstan was first at the Olympic Games as an independent nation in 1994.  They have been in every Games since.  Prior to the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Kazakh athletes were part of the Soviet Union at the Olympics, and were also part of the Unified Team in 1992.

Kazakh athletes have won a total of 52 medals at the Summer Olympic Games, and another six at the Winter Olympic Games.

The National Olympic Committee for Kazakhstan was formed in 1990 and recognized in 1993.

[[North Korea at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in North Korea, Nations at the Olympics

North Korea at the Olympics is a history which includes 17 games in 14 countries and 300+ athletes.  Since 1946, North Korea has contributed to the growth of the "Olympic Movement".

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for the North Korea was NKO.  It is now PRK.

[[South Korea at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in South Korea, Nations at the Olympics

South Korea at the Olympics is a history which includes 32 games in 18 countries and 2,000+ athletes.  Since 1946, South Korea (KOR) has contributed to the growth of the "Olympic Movement".

[[Kuwait at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Kuwait, Nations at the Olympics

Kuwait has been in 10 Summer Olympic Games. They have never been in the Winter Olympic Games.

In the 1992 Barcelona Games, Kuwait received a bronze medal in taekwondo.  It was only a demonstration sport that year so the medal was not official.

The National Olympic Committee for Kuwait was formed in 1957 and recognized in 1966.

[[Kyrgyzstan at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Kyrgyzstan, Nations at the Olympics

Kyrgyzstan has been in four Summer Games and four Winter Games as an independent state.  They have won three medals. The nation was part of the Soviet Union before 1992. In 1992, Kyrgyzstan was on the Unified Team.  Kyrgyzstan was at the 1994 Winter Olympics as their own country after the breakup of the Soviet Union.

[[Laos at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Laos, Nations at the Olympics

Laos has been in seven Summer Olympic Games. They have never been in the Winter Olympic Games. They have never won a medal. 

The National Olympic Committee of Lao was formed in 1975 and recognized in 1979.

[[Lebanon at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Nations at the Olympics, Sport in Lebanon

Lebanon at the Olympicsis a history which began in 1948.

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Lebanon is LBN.

[[Marie Stopes]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1958 deaths, Alumni of University College London, British botanists, British feminists, British writers, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from breast cancer, Female scientists, People from Edinburgh

Marie Carmichael Stopes (Edinburgh, 15 October 1880 – Dorking, 2 October 1958) was a British palaeobotanist, author and campaigner for birth control.

Stopes' newsletter Birth Control News, her book Married Love, and her organisation Marie Stopes International, were hugely important in Britain and throughout the British Empire. She was the founder of British family planning, and fought many battles in print with those whose opinions differed from hers.

[[École normale supérieure]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in France

École normale supérieure is the name for a number of French higher education bodies grand écoles, comparable to universities. In France, universities have to accept all students with a baccalaureat. This is different for the so called Grandes Ecoles, which includes the Ecoles normales supérieures. These schools do not have the obligation to accept anyone, and only a select few can attend studies at these institutions, most of whom will become part of the elite in various areas. Universities have faculties, and each faculty is responsible for one branch of studies. the ENS usually group similar subjects at one school, and do not have faculties.

[[Malaysia at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Malaysia, Nations at the Olympics

Malaysia was first at the Olympic Games in 1956.

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Malaysia was MAL.  It is now MAS.

[[Maldives at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Maldives, Nations at the Olympics

The Maldives were first at the Olympic Games in 1988.  They have been in every Summer Olympic Games since then.  The nation has never been in the Winter Olympic Games.

As of 2011, the Maldives has not won any medals at the Olympics. 

The National Olympic Committee for Maldives was formed in 1985 and recognized by the International Olympic Committee that same year.

[[Mongolia at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Nations at the Olympics, Sport in Mongolia

Mongolia at the Olympics is a history which began in 1956.

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Mongolia is MGL.

[[Myanmar at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Myanmar, Nations at the Olympics

Myanmar, also known as Burma, was first at the Olympic Games in 1948.

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Myanmar is MYA.  In 1964, it was BUR for Burma.

[[Nepal at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Nations at the Olympics, Sport in Nepal

Nepal at the Olympics is a history which began in 1963. 

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Nepal is NEP.

[[Oman at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Oman, Nations at the Olympics

Oman at the Olympics is a history which includes 8 games in 7 countries and 30+ athletes. Since 1982, Oman has contributed to the growth of the "Olympic Movement".

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Oman is OMA.

[[Pakistan at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Pakistan, Nations at the Olympics

Pakistan at the Olympics is a history which includes 17 games in 13 countries and 300+ athletes.  Since 1948, Pakistan  has contributed to the growth of the "Olympic Movement".

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Pakistan is PAK.

[[University of Tarapacá]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Chile, 1982 establishments, 1980s establishments in Chile

The University of Tarapacá (in Spanish: Universidad de Tarapacá) is a Chilean university with 3 headquarters located in Arica and one in Iquique. It's another university in the north of Chile.

[[Ostracoderm]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct fish, Agnatha

The Oststracoderms are a class of extinct fish. They were bony-armoured jawless fish, the Osteostraci ("bony shields"). They lived in what is now North America, Europe and Russia from the Middle Silurian to Upper Devonian. They were the first fish to use gills just for respiration.

Ostracoderms were the first fossil fish to be discovered. They were found in the 1830s in the Old Red Sandstone of Scotland. The genus Cephalaspis is quite a common fossil in these rocks.

[[Nancy Wake]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2011 deaths, World War II people, Order of Australia, Spies, People from Wellington

Nancy Grace Augusta Wake (30 August 1912 – 7 August 2011) known as the "White Mouse", was an Australian who worked as a spy for the British in World War II. At one time she was on the top of the Gestapo's most wanted list. A novel by Sebastian Faulks based on her life called Charlotte Gray, was later made into a movie starring Cate Blanchett.

Wake was born in Wellington, New Zealand in 1911, and moved to Australia when she was two. She ran away from home at the age of 16, and in 1935 went to London. She learned to be a journalist and worked in Paris. She married a rich factory owner, Henry Fioca in 1939. When the war started she became an ambulance driver. She soon became a part of a group led by Pat O'Leary (real name Albert Guérisse) which helped British soldiers escape from France. The Gestapo soon noticed her activities and she fled to Spain. Her husband was captured, tortured and shot dead.

In England she joined the Special Operation Executive (SOE). In April 1944, Wake was parachuted into France to work with the French Resistance before the D-Day landings. She was involved in several major battles with the German army. She claimed to have once killed an SS soldier with her bare hands.

She was given several important medals for bravery including the British George Medal, the French Croix de Guerre (on three occasions), the Médaille de la Résistance and she was made a Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur. The Americans gave her the Medal of Freedom. In 2004 Australia made her a Companion of the Order of Australia.

She was an unusual woman for her time. She had a reputation among the soldiers she worked with for being a heavy drinker. Major John Farmer said about her drinking that "...we just couldn't work out where it all went". When the Australian government offered her a medal she said they could "stick their medals where the monkey sticks his nuts". She sold her medals to support her income in her old age. She said "There was no point in keeping them, I'll probably go to hell and they'd melt anyway".

[[Erymanthian Boar]]

CATEGORIES: Greek legendary creatures, Pigs

In Greek mythology, the Erymanthian Boar (Greek: ὁ Ἐρυμάνθιοs κάπρος; Latin: aper Erymanthius) is a creature. It is known in connection with The Twelve Labours, in which Heracles, the enemy of Hera, visited all the other sites of the Goddess throughout the world to defeat every monster that nature could imagine, and return the early world to his Olympian father, Zeus, who would be its new master. 

[[Mount Tamalpais]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of California, Marin County, California

Mount Tamalpais (tæməlˈpaɪ.ɨs, known locally as "Mount Tam") is a mountain in Marin County, California, United States. It is the highest mountain in the Marin Hills. It is often seen as a symbol of Marin County.

A lot of Mount Tamalpais is on protected public lands such as Mount Tamalpais State Park and the Mount Tamalpais Watershed. The elevation at the East Peak, its second highest point, is 2572. The West Peak, the mountain's highest peak, is 2574 above sea level.

[[Barnard's star]]

CATEGORIES: Red dwarfs

Barnard's Star, also known as Barnard's Runaway Star, is a very low-mass red dwarf star approximately six light-years away from Earth in the constellation of Ophiuchus (the Snake-holder). It is very old, and moving relatively fast.

In 1916, the American astronomer E. E. Barnard measured its proper motion as 10.3 arcseconds per year. This is the largest-known proper motion of any star relative to the Sun. At a distance of about 1.8 parsecs from the Solar System, or just under six light-years, Barnard's Star is the nearest known star in the constellation Ophiuchus, and the fourth-closest known individual star to the Sun, after the three components of the Alpha Centauri system. Despite its proximity, Barnard's Star, at a dim apparent magnitude of about nine, is not visible with the unaided eye; however, it is much brighter in infrared light than it is in visible light.

[[Punjabi language movement]]

CATEGORIES: Punjabi language

The Punjabi Language Movement (PLM) is a linguistic movement in Punjab (Pakistan) aimed at reviving the Punjabi language, art, culture and literature in Pakistan. The Punjabi people constitute the largest ethnic group in Pakistan though Urdu is the national language and Punjabi itself does not have an official status. The PLM's ideologies are based on Punjabi nationalism. 

[[Platanus orientalis]]

CATEGORIES: Trees, Proteales, Plants and animals of Kashmir

Platanus orientalis, also called Oriental plane tree and chenar, is a large, deciduous tree of the Platanaceae family. It is known for its longevity and spreading crown. 

The species name derives from its historical distribution eastward from the Balkans, where it was recognized in ancient Greek history and literature. Following Greek usage it is called Platane or related names in Europe. It was equally as famous to the Iranian-speaking world and from  Turkey to Occupied Kashmir is called Chenar or related names, following the Iranian. 

The native range of the Oriental plane is Eurasia from the Balkans to as far east as at least Iran. Some accounts extend its native range to Iberia in the west, and to the Himalayas in the east. 

The oriental plane is found naturally in riverine settings, together with such trees as alder, willow and poplar. However, it is quite capable of survival and success in dry soils once it is established. In Kashmir it is recognised as the State tree of the region.

[[Koi]]

CATEGORIES: Domesticated animals, Ray-finned fish

Koi (鯉, Romaji: koi) or more specifically nishikigoi (錦鯉, literally "brocaded carp"), are ornamental varieties of common carp (Cyprinus carpio) that are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens.

Koi varieties are distinguished by coloration, patterning, and scalation. Some of the major colors are white, black, red, yellow, blue, and cream.

It is illegal to keep koi in Queensland, Australia because they are an invasive species.

[[Heathen Chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Oasis (band) albums, 2002 albums

Heathen Chemistry is the fifth studio album by English rock band Oasis, released in 2002. It was the final album with drummer Alan White who left in 2004. White was replaced with Zak Starkey.

[[Classical Chinese]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese language

Classical Chinese or literary Chinese is a traditional register of written Chinese. It is based on the grammar and vocabulary of ancient Chinese, so it is very different from any modern spoken form of Chinese. Classical Chinese was once used for almost all formal writing before and during the beginning of the 20th century in China, and during various different periods in Korea, Japan and Vietnam. Among Chinese speakers, Classical Chinese has been largely replaced by written vernacular Chinese, or 白话/白話 báihuà ("plain speech") after the overthrow of the Qing dynasty and therefore the end of Imperial China. Written Vernacular Chinese is a writing style very closely related to modern spoken Mandarin Chinese. At the same time, non-Chinese speakers have largely given up Classical Chinese, and use their local languages or dialects instead.

Although many words and phrases used in Classical Chinese have been replaced by words and phrases made up of different characters in Standard Chinese, many of the characters that were common in Classical Chinese can be found in modern Chinese words and phrases as well as retain their meanings. For example, while the word "to eat" is 食 (shí) in Classical Chinese, it is 吃 (chī) in Standard Chinese. However, the character 食 is still found in words related to food and eating like 食品 (shípĭn), which is the Standard Chinese word for "food". The chart below compares Classical Chinese words to the Standard Chinese words that replaced them. 

Many modern Chinese words and phrases either came from northern dialects or are loanwords from other languages such as Mongolian or Korean.

Due to the changes of the spoken Chinese over the centuries, spoken Chinese lost many sounds that existed in older dialects, and therefore many words in Classical Chinese were beginning to sound too much like each other. Although documents written in Classical Chinese can be reasonably understood by someone who can read Chinese, they can be very difficult to understand when they are read aloud. One-syllable articles, or poems written in Classical Chinese in which every word in the poem is pronounced by the same syllable, are perfect examples that how impractical Classic is as a spoken language. The title of one poem 施氏食狮史 (Shī Shì Shí Shī Shǐ), known as the "Lion-Eating Poet of the Stone Den" in English, literally translates to "The Story of Shi Shi Eating Lions". Every single word of the poem is pronounced "shi", even though they have different tones. If the title were to be translated into Standard Chinese, it be read something like 施氏吃狮子的史诗 (Shī Shì chī shīzi de shǐshī).

Structurally, words in Classical Chinese tend to be much simpler because they are usually made up of one Chinese character, while in Standard Chinese most words are made of two to four characters. This is so that the writer can write what they want to write using as few characters as possible. Examples are found below.

Once again, due to the merging of Chinese sounds, extra characters are added to words in Standard Chinese to distinguish similar-sounding words that would otherwise be impossible to tell apart.

Examples of phrases in Classical Chinese is Confucius's famous quote 有教無類 (yǒu jiào wú lèi), which roughly translates to, "In education, there should be no class distinction."

[[Marc Janko]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Marc Janko (born 25 June 1983 in Vienna) is an Austrian football striker. He plays for Twente Enschede in the  Dutch Eredivisie. He is the son of Eva Janko who won a medal in the 1968 Summer Olympics.

[[2010–11 Manchester United F.C. season]]

CATEGORIES: Football seasons, 2011 in association football, 2010 in association football, 2010 in the United Kingdom, 2011 in the United Kingdom, 2010s in Manchester

The 2010–11 season is Manchester United's 19th season in the Premier League.

In September, Nemanja Vidić named as Manchester United's new captain.

[[Exergaming]]

CATEGORIES: Video games, Fitness

Exergaming or exer-gaming (a portmanteau of "exercise" (moving the body) and  "gaming") is a word used for video games that are also a form of exercise. Exergaming is based upon technology that records body movement. The game type has been credited with promoting an active lifestyle. Exergames are seen as coming from technology changes with the purpose of making videogames more fun.

[[Standing on the Shoulder of Giants]]

CATEGORIES: Oasis (band) albums, 2000 albums

Standing on the Shoulder of Giants is the fourth studio album by English rock band Oasis, released on 28 February 2000.

[[Communications satellite]]

CATEGORIES: Communication, Satellites

Communications satellites are satellites stationed in space for the purpose of telecommunications. They relay radio waves between different places. Most are in synchronous orbit. Direct-broadcast satellites transmit many television channels.

Satellite based communication systems can be used for voice and data transmission in remote and underserved locations such as ships at sea. Satellite internet access is internet access provided through satellites. Satellite based systems can be used for providing high quality broadband internet connection to businesses.

Herman Potočnik (writing as 'Herman Noordung') was the first to propose that space stations use radio to communicate with Earth. In October 1945 Arthur C. Clarke published an article titled "Extraterrestrial relays" in the British magazine Wireless World. The article described artificial satellites in geostationary orbits to relay radio signals. So, Clarke is often quoted as being the inventor of the communications satellite.

Primitive communication satellites were tested in the early 1960s. Geosynchronous satellites became inpotant in the 1970s.

[[Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation]]

CATEGORIES: Non-profit organizations of the United States, Bill Gates

The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) is a non-profit organisation that donates money to fight diseases and poverty. It was founded by Bill Gates, the founder and previous CEO of Microsoft and his wife Melinda Gates.

The money comes from the billions of dollars Bill Gates earned from Microsoft.

[[Mario Party]]

Mario Party can refer to the following:

[[Mario Party (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: Mario Party games, Nintendo 64 games, 1998 video games

Mario Party is the first video game of the Mario Party series. It was made by Japanese company Nintendo and first party company Hudson. It was released for the Nintendo 64 in 1998. It is a party board game.

[[La Paz]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Bolivia, National capitals in South America, 1548 establishments, 1540s establishments in South America

Nuestra Señora de La Paz (ˈnwes.tɾa seˈɲoɾa ðe la pas; Our Lady of Peace; Chuqi Yapu)  is the capital of Bolivia, and La Paz Department. It is the second largest city (in people) only after Santa Cruz de la Sierra. It is in the western part of the country in the department of the same name. It is at an elevation of 3650 above sea level, making it the world's highest de facto capital city.

[[Delaware Route 82]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Delaware, 1952 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Delaware

Delaware Route 82 (DE 82) is a state highway in the northwest suburbs of Wilmington in New Castle County, Delaware. The route runs 5.51 from DE 52 near Greenville to the Pennsylvania border near Yorklyn. There it continues as Pennsylvania Route 82 (PA 82). The route passes through areas of trees and fields in the north part of New Castle County. A lot of the route passes next to the Red Clay Creek. All of the route is a part of the Red Clay Valley Scenic Byway, made in 2005. DE 82 was first given its number by 1952. It was signed onto the same road it is on today. In 2010, DelDOT had planned to remove the route number. But it did not happen because people did not want the route number to be removed.

[[Delaware Route 52]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Delaware

Delaware Route 52 is a state highway in Delaware. It goes from Wilmington north to the Pennsylvania border.

[[Pennsylvania Route 82]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Pennsylvania

Pennsylvania Route 82 is a state highway in Pennsylvania. It goes from the Delaware border north to Elverson.

[[Delaware Route 100]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Delaware

Delaware Route 100 is a state highway in Delaware. It goes from Elsmere north to the Pennsylvania border.

[[Greenville, Delaware]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Delaware

Greenville is a place in Delaware in the United States. It is in New Castle County, which is in the north part of the state. It is north of Wilmington.

[[Yorklyn, Delaware]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Delaware

Yorklyn is a place in Delaware in the United States. It is in New Castle County, which is in the north part of the state. It is north of Wilmington.

[[Kennett Square, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pennsylvania

Kennett Square is a borough in Pennsylvania in the United States. It is in Chester County, which is in the southeast part of the state.

[[Red Clay Creek]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Delaware, Rivers of Pennsylvania

The Red Clay Creek is a creek in Delaware and Pennsylvania in the United States. It goes into the White Clay Creek near Wilmington, Delaware.

[[Wilmington and Western Railroad]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United States

The Wilmington and Western Railroad is a tourist railroad near Wilmington, Delaware in the United States.

[[John Stossel]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American journalists, American television presenters, Writers from Illinois

John F. Stossel is an American libertarian author, columnist, investigative reporter, and television host. He works for Fox News Channel and Fox Business Network. He used to report for 20/20 on ABC.

[[List of numbered routes in Delaware]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Delaware, Delaware-related lists, Lists of roads

The following is a List of numbered routes in Delaware, made up of Interstate highways, U.S. routes, and state routes. The Delaware Department of Transportation is responsible for taking care of the numbered roads in Delaware. State routes in Delaware use a highway sign that has the numbers in a white circle on a black square. Delaware's numbering system is like that of the U.S. Highways in that odd numbered highways (1, 3, 5, 7, or 9) travel north-south and even numbered routes (2, 4, 6, 8, or 0) go east-west. The numbers get bigger as one goes south and west respectively. There are some numbers that do not follow this, however, mostly with routes from other states keeping their number as they enter Delaware.

[[Delaware Department of Transportation]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in Delaware, State departments of transportation in the United States

The Delaware Department of Transportation (DelDOT) is in charge of transportation in Delaware, United States. It owns many roads and runs DART First State, which does public transportation in the state.

[[Nasi kucing]]

CATEGORIES: Rice dishes, Indonesian culture

Nasi kucing (also called sego kucing), meaning cat rice or cat's rice, is an Indonesian rice dish. It comes from Yogyakarta, Semarang, and Surakarta. It can now be found in many places. It is a small serving of rice with different toppings. Often the toppings include chili sauce, dried fish, and tempeh. It is wrapped in banana leaves. 

[[Hyponatremia]]

CATEGORIES: Blood, Health problems

Hyponatremia (British English: hyponatraemia) is when a human body does not have enough salt (sodium) in its blood. It is mostly caused by the presence of too much water.

Hyponatremia is most often a complication of other medical illnesses in which excess water collects in the body faster than can be excreted (for example in congestive heart failure, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH), or polydipsia). Some runners who drink a lot of water before running a marathon also suffer this illness. Drinking too much water  can impair the ability of marathon runners.

[[George II]]

King George II may mean one of two people: 

[[Marlin]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts

Marlins, family Istiophoridae, are fish with an elongated body, a spear-like snout or bill, and a long rigid dorsal fin, which extends forward to form a crest. Its common name is thought to derive from its resemblance to a sailor's marlinspike. Even more so than their close relatives the scombrids, marlin are incredibly fast swimmers, marlins are fast swimmers, reaching speeds of about 80.

Marlin are rarely table fare, appearing mostly in fine restaurants. Most modern sport fishermen release marlin after unhooking.

[[Pufferfish]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts

The pufferfish is a family of fish, with about 100 species. They are also known as the blowfish, fugu, swellfish, and globefish. They are called the pufferfish because when they are threatened, they puff up to about twice their normal size by gulping water. In this enlarged state, the pufferfish can swim at only about half their normal speed. Pufferfish are generally believed to be the second-most poisonous vertebrates in the world, after the golden poison frog. They use tetrodotoxin, a powerful neurotoxin.

Most pufferfish are found in sub-tropical and tropical marine waters (including coral reefs) in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans. Some puffers live in brackish and fresh water. 

The scientific name refers to the four large teeth, fused into an upper and lower plate, which are used for crushing the shells of crustaceans and mollusks, their natural prey.

Even though pufferfish are poisonous, the meat of some species is eaten in Japan (as 河豚, pronounced 'fugu'), Korea (as 복 bok or 복어 bogeo ), and China (as 河豚 hétún). It is prepared by specially trained chefs who know which parts, and how much of them, are safe to eat.

Some people also keep pufferfish as pets.

[[Fort Kent, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maine

Ft. Kent is a town in northern Maine. It touches the Canadian border.

[[Oxytocin]]

CATEGORIES: Hormones

Oxytocin is a hormone found in mammals. It is a peptide hormone and neuropeptide. It acts on the brain. In humans it is released during female reproduction, especially during and after childbirth. 

It has other effects. It encourages pair bonding, and parental behaviour. It is released during intimate moments during orgasms and even hugs. For this reason it is often called the 'love hormone'.

Strange to say, the oxytocin released by the pituitary gland cannot reach the brain: it does have effects on the rest of the body. The reason is that there is a blood–brain barrier which prevents large molecules from getting into the brain. Instead, the hormone is produced by special nerve cells inside the brain. 

Oxytocin is also released through the use of recreational drugs like MDMA and some prescription anti-depressants.

Oxytocin was the first polypeptide hormone to be sequenced and synthesized, by Vincent du Vigneaud and colleagues in 1953.

[[Phil Jones (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, English footballers, Manchester United F.C. players, People from Preston, Lancashire, Sportspeople from Lancashire

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hashtag_United_F.C.

Philip Anthony "Phil" Jones (born 21 February 1992) is an English footballer.  Jones plays as a defender for Manchester United and the England under-21 national team. He played for Blackburn Rovers at both youth and senior levels before joining Manchester United.  Jones usually plays central defender, but can also play as a right-back or defensive midfielder. His transfer market value is now 80 million euro's

[[Bob Burnquist]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Brazilian sportspeople, Skateboarders

Bob Burnquist is a professional skateboarder from Sao Paulo, Brazil. He is in Tony Hawks Pro Skater video games.

[[Aermacchi M.B.339]]

CATEGORIES: Military aircraft, Italian military aircraft

Aermacchi M.B.339 was built by Alenia Aermacchi. The creation of this type was requested by the Aernautica Militaire. They wanted to use it as new trainer.

[[Ocean sunfish]]

CATEGORIES: Ray-finned fish

The ocean sunfish (Mola mola, also called the mola or sun fish) is a large ocean fish found in warm and temperate oceans. It is the heaviest known bony fish in the world. It has an almost circular, flattened body. This unusual fish swims by flapping its long pectoral and dorsal fins; the caudal fin is used as a rudder (for steering). Some sunfish have been seen floating on their sides at the top of the sea; they may be using the sun to heat themselves up. They eat crustaceans, starfish, jellyfish, sponges, mollusks, algae, plankton, squid, and small fish.

The species is native to tropical and temperate waters around the globe. It resembles a fish head with a tail, and its main body is flattened laterally.

[[Remora]]

CATEGORIES: Perciformes

Remora sometimes called a suckerfish or sharksucker, is an elongated, brown fish in the order Perciformes and family Echeneidae. They are small fish that live on and around sharks. They eat stray bits of food left by the shark and tiny shrimp-like parasites that live on the shark's skin. They have sucker-like disks on their heads with which they attach to the shark. 

Both the shark and the remora benefit from the pairing, but the remore benefits much more; this is commensalism. Remora are also known as sucker fish or shark sucker.

[[Rick Snyder]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Governors of Michigan, Businesspeople from Michigan, US Republican Party politicians

Richard Dale Snyder (born August 19, 1958) is an American politician, business executive, venture capitalist, and accountant who was the 48th Governor of Michigan. A member of the Republican Party, he became governor on January 1, 2011 and left office on January 1, 2019.

Snyder was seen as a possible Republican Party candidate for Vice President of the United States in 2012, although Paul Ryan was selected.

A report by the University of Michigan School of Public Health concluded Snyder has "significant legal responsibility" for the Flint water crisis, exposing 6,000 to 12,000 Flint children to lead.

On April 16, 2020, an article was published in Vice gave details and evidence of corruption, and a cover-up by Snyder, including details of how he was warned repeatedly about the dangerous effects of the decisions he had made about the water supply to the city of Flint during the water crisis. In January 2021, Snyder was criminally charged for his role in the crisis.

[[Bibliomania]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms

Bibliomania can be a symptom of obsessive-compulsive disorder, by collecting of books to the point where social relations or health are in danger. It can be connected to stealing (kleptomania) of books.

Bibliomania is not to be confused with bibliophilia, which is the usual love of books.

Don Quixote may be the most famous bibliomaniac in fiction.

[[Jersey Shore]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of New Jersey

The Jersey Shore is the name for the part of New Jersey that is along the Atlantic Ocean.

[[Jefferson Cardoso dos Santos]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Jefferson Cardoso dos Santos (15 February 1986 in São Vicente, Brazil) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga. He is a defender.

He started playing football with his local club  São Vicente Atlético Clube and then went on to Jabaquara Atlético Clube in Brazils 4th league. He became Champion with this team and then went on to Red Bull Brasil. With this team he was two times promoted. In summer 2011 he and his team mate Alex Rafael were invited to train with F.C. Red Bull Salzburg. He played two test matches for Salzburg (Bayer 04 Leverkusen, Olympique Lyon). He convinced the club and so he was signed for Red Bull Salzburg. After some matches as substitution he played his first match in the starting team on 21 August 2011 in a league match versus S.K. Sturm Graz.

[[2010 Russian Premier League]]

CATEGORIES: Russian Premier League

The 2010 Russian Premier League was the 19th season of the Russian Premier League. The team with the most points was Zenit St. Petersburg, with 68 points. CSKA Moscow was second with 62 points. The season started on March 12, 2010. The last match was played November 29, 2010. On November 14, 2010, Zenit St. Petersburg claimed their titles after a 5-0 win against FC Rostov. Lastly, this season was Saturn Moscow Oblast's last season. The team was dissolved after.

[[List of FIFA World Cup goalscorers]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA World Cup players, Lists of footballers

This is a list of FIFA World Cup goalscorers. This is until the 2014 World Cup.

Currently, Miroslav Klose has the most with 16 goals.

[[Chillán Viejo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Chillán Viejo is a Chilean commune in the south of Chillán. According to the Chilean 2002, Chillán Viejo has an area of 292 and 26,172 inhabitants.

[[Pyramid scheme]]

CATEGORIES: Commercial crime, Marketing

A pyramid scheme is a way of making money that cannot continue very long. It involves promising people payment, services or ideals, primarily for enrolling other people into the scheme or training them to take part. It does not supply any real investment or sale of  products or services to the public. Pyramid schemes are a form of fraud. For this reason, pyramid schemes are illegal in many countries. 

This type of scheme has existed for at least a century (100 years). The way the scheme is described is sometimes changed to hide what it is doing. Many people believe that multilevel marketing (MLM) is also a pyramid scheme.

[[The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 books, Children's books, Fairy tales, Collections of fairy tales

The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales is a children's book by Jon Scieszka. It was published in 1992 by Viking. It is a collection of stories which make fun of famous children's stories and fairy tales, such as "Chicken Licken", "The Gingerbread Man" (changed to The Stinky Cheese Man of the title), "The Ugly Duckling", and others. It was illustrated by Lane Smith, who won the Caldecott Honor for his illustrations. This book also won the New York Times Best Illustrated Book award, among numerous awards in many countries.

The book was also re-released in a new edition in 2002 to celebrate its tenth anniversary. This new edition also included a story which had been listed in the Table of Contents of the previous editions, but had not appeared anywhere in the book. This story was printed on the back of the dust jacket.

[[Palestine at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Palestinian culture, Nations at the Olympics

Palestine at the Olympics is a history which includes 5 games in 5 countries and 10+ athletes.  Since 1996, Palestine (PLE) has contributed to the growth of the "Olympic Movement".

[[São Paulo Museum of Art]]

CATEGORIES: Art museums, São Paulo, 1968 establishments, 1960s establishments in Brazil

The São Paulo Museum of Art is an art museum on Paulista Avenue in the city of São Paulo, Brazil. The museum opened in 1968.

[[Philippines at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in the Philippines, Nations at the Olympics

Philippines at the Olympics is a history which includes 23 games in 16 countries and 370+ athletes.  Since 1911, the Philippines has contributed to the growth of the "Olympic Movement".

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for the Philippines is PHI.

[[Robert Louis Stevenson]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish writers, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, 1850 births, 1894 deaths

Robert Louis Stevenson was a Scottish novelist, essayist, poet and travel writer. He was born on 13 November 1850  and died on 3 December 1894.His parents were Thomas Stevenson, a and Margaret Isabella Balfour. He spent much of his childhood sick in bed with lung trouble. He studied law in Edinburgh University. But he turned his interest to writing. Some of his best known works are Treasure Island, Kidnapped and Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll. 

[[Qatar at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Qatar, Nations at the Olympics

Qatar at the Olympics is a history which includes 8 games in 7 countries and 100+ athletes. Since 1979, Oman has contributed to the growth of the "Olympic Movement".

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Qatar is QAT.

[[The Westing Game]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 books, Children's books, Crime fiction books, Young adult novels, Newbery Medal winning books

The Westing Game is a mystery novel written by Ellen Raskin. It was published in 1978 and it won the Newbery Medal in 1979. It was made into a movie which was released in 1997. This movie was released under both the names The Westing Game and Get a Clue.

[[Selous' zebra]]

CATEGORIES: Equids, Mammals of Africa, Zebras

The Selous' zebra (Equus quagga borensis) is one of the six subspecies of the plains zebra (Equus quagga). Selous' Zebra is a critically endangered species. These are often confused with the Damaraland zebras (Equus quagga antiquorum), and the Chapman Zebra (Equus quagga chapmani). The Selous' Zebra's belly is partly striped and they have clean black and white banding. They do not have the brown shadow stripes of the Chapman Zebra. 

Selous's Zebra lives in the northwest of Kenya, parts of Uganda, and the southeast of Sudan.

[[Saudi Arabia at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Saudi Arabia, Nations at the Olympics

Saudi Arabia has been in eight Summer Olympic Games. They first were in the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, West Germany.  They have never been in the Winter Olympic Games.

By Saudi Arabian law, women cannot be in the Olympic Games. However, the International Olympic Committee is reportedly pressuring the Saudi Olympic Committee to send female athletes to the 2012 Summer Olympics.  Others want Saudi Arabia to not be in the Olympics unless they let women in.

The Saudi Arabian Olympic Committee was formed in 1964 and recognized in 1965.

[[BMW in Formula One]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors, Formula One engine manufacturers

BMW has been in Formula One since the beginning of the World Drivers' Championship in 1950. BMW entered several races in the 1950s and 1960s. Often, they ran using the Formula Two rules. In the 1980s, they built the BMW M12/13 inline-four turbocharged engine. This engine was built for the Brabham team. Nelson Piquet won the 1983 championship driving a Brabham-BMW. BMW also supplied the M12/13 engine to the ATS, Arrows, Benetton and Ligier teams. In 1988, Brabham left F1 for the 1988 season, and BMW stopped its official backing of the engines. Arrows still used the engine with the Megatron name. When Formula One banned turbocharged engines in 1989, the M12/13 could no longer be used.

BMW returned to Formula One in 2000. They made a deal to supply engines to only the Williams team. The engine was a new V10 engine. The engine deal with Williams ended after the 2005 season. BMW then bought the rival Sauber team. The BMW Sauber project lasted from 2006 until 2009. Sauber, a former privateer team, became more competitive. In 2008, Robert Kubica won the team's only race, the Canadian Grand Prix, with Nick Heidfeld finishing second. After the 2009 season, BMW withdrew from F1. They sold the team back to its founder, Peter Sauber.

[[List of Interstate Highways]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways, Lists of roads, United States-related lists

Primary Interstate Highways are the major interstate highways of the United States and have a one or two-digit route number.  Even (0, 2, 4, 6, or 8) route numbers are given to east/west routes, with the smaller numbered routes in the  south (I-10) and bigger numbered routes in the north (I-90).  Similarly, odd (1, 3, 5, 7, or 9) route numbers are given to north/south routes, with the smaller numbered routes in the west (I-5) and the bigger numbered routes in the east (I-95).

There are five sets of numbers that are used more than once throughout the system; the highways whose numbers are used more than once are separated by big distances to avoid confusion. Below, these are made separate from each other by West and East.

Three-digit Interstates are spur or loop Interstates that usually are in big cities and areas outside of cities.  The last two digits of a three-digit Interstate are always the number of the route it is related to.  If the first digit is odd (1, 3, 5, 7, or 9), the Interstate is usually a spur route while if the first digit is even (2, 4, 6, 8, or 0), the Interstate is usually a loop route. 

[[Andrew Gaze]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Basketball players, Autobiographers, Sportspeople from Melbourne

Andrew Barry Casson Gaze (born 24 July 1965) is a famous Australian basketball player. He has been very successful in his career.

Andrew is the son of Lindsay Gaze, who coached and played basketball himself. Andrew started playing in the NBL when he was 18 years old. He won the 'rookie of the year' prize in 1984. He scored the most points out of everyone in a season 14 times. This was because he was very good at shooting, including 'three-point' shots. Gaze played with Lanard Copeland at the Melbourne Tigers for most of his career. He often through 'alley oop' passes to Copeland. Gaze helped the Tigers reach the finals almost every year. He also helped them win two championships.

Gaze played in the Olympic Games for Australia in 1984, 1988, 1992, 1996 and 2000. In 2000 he became only the third basketball player to play in 5 Olympic Games. He led the team to 4th place at the 1988, 1996 and 2000 Olympics.) He was chosen to be the flag-bearer for the Australian team at the opening ceremony at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. He has scored more points at the Olympics than any other player. He is the second-highest scorer of all-time in World Championship play.

In 1988–99, Gaze played for a season college basketball at Seton Hall. His team reached the 1989 NCAA finals. They lost in overtime to Michigan. He tried out with the NBA's Seattle SuperSonics, but did not make the team. In 1993–94 he played seven games for the Washington Bullets. He also played with the San Antonio Spurs in 1998, but became hurt at the end of the season. The Spurs won the title and Gaze was given a championship ring.

After the Sydney Olympics, Gaze retired from playing overseas. He retired from the NBL on May 12th 2005. He had played for more than 20 years. Soon after, he wrote his autobiography, A Kid, a Ball, a Dream, with help from Grantley Bernard.

Nowadays, Gaze often takes part in TV advertisements. He also commentates for channel 7, SEN 1116 and (occasionally) Fox Sports.  Gaze now coaches for the Melbourne Tigers' junior basketball club. Gaze took part in series five of Dancing with the Stars He is now also working as a presenter on Channel Seven's Guide to the Good Life.

[[Honus Wagner]]

CATEGORIES: 1874 births, 1955 deaths, American baseball players, Sportspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Major League Baseball players, Pittsburgh Pirates managers, Pittsburgh Pirates players, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, 19th century baseball players

Johannes Peter "Honus" Wagner (ˈ; February 24, 1874 – December 6, 1955 ) was an American Major League Baseball shortstop. He was nicknamed "The Flying Dutchman" because he was German and very fast. He played in the National League from 1897 to 1917. He played for the Louisville Colonels for two years, and then for the Pittsburgh Pirates for 17 years. Wagner won eight batting titles, the most in National League history. He held the league record for slugging percentage six times, and the record for stolen bases five times.

He was inducted (added to) the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1936. He was one of the first five members of the hall of fame. He received the second-highest vote total to be added. Ty Cobb is the only person to get more votes. Babe Ruth tied with Wagner for second-highest.

Most historians think that Ty Cobb is the greatest player of the dead-ball era. But some think that Wagner was a better all-around player. Most baseball historians think that Wagner was the greatest shortstop ever. Cobb said that Wagner was "maybe the greatest star ever to take the diamond."

[[Klaipėda]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lithuania

Klaipėda is a city in Lithuania. It is where the Nemunas River  flows into the Baltic Sea. Klaipėda is the third largest city in Lithuania and the capital of Klaipėda County. The German name of the city is Memel. Until 1920, this city was the northernmost city of the German Empire. 

The city's history is complicated. The Port of Klaipėda is important in the area. It is a usually ice-free port on the Baltic Sea. It has been controlled by the Teutonic Knights, the Duchy of Prussia, the Kingdom of Prussia, the German Empire, the Entente States, Lithuania, and the Third Reich. The city became part of Lithuania while it was a Soviet Socialist Republic. Klaipėda remained part of Lithuania after it again became independent state.

The population shrank from 207,100 in 1992 to 177,823 in 2011. Popular seaside resorts found close to Klaipėda are Nida to the south on the Curonian Spit, and Palanga to the north.

[[JIT]]

CATEGORIES: Computer programming

JIT, Just-In-Time compilation is a way to translate bytecode instructions to instructions the processor understands. Bytecode is a set of computer instructions for a processor that only exists on paper. 

The alternative to a JIT is an interpreter that looks at each bytecode instruction individually and then decides what to with it. When you run over the same part of the program again, an interpreter has to make the decisions again. While a JIT makes the decisions on how to handle the bytecode once, and then stores it as native processor instructions (this takes memory). Properly deciding how to translate bytecode take some time, so you have some minor slowdown in startup speed. A proper modern JIT first runs a regular interpreter, and then does the JIT step once it knows something is used frequently.

[[Hınıs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Turkey

Hınıs is a town in Erzurum district in east of Turkey. Over 30,000 people live there, mainly Kurdish.

[[Avro 683 Lancaster]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Air Force aircraft

Avro 683 Lancaster was developed out of Avro 679 Manchester. It was the most used RAF bomber in the Second World War. The changes made on Avro 679, like four Rolls-Royce Merlin X instead of two powerplants and longer wings, have led to the new name Avro 683. Royal Air Force ordered 1070 pieces of this airplane.  After the success on the war places, Avro sold the production licence to other companies. One of those was Packard, who bought the licence for powerplant production and improved them. The variant with the most produced pieces was Avro 683 B I, a plane which was the base of RAF Bomber Command at that time. 

[[Indre (department)]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Centre-Val de Loire, 1790 establishments

Indre is a department in the centre of France in the Centre-Val de Loire region. It is named after the Indre river, the most important river in the department.

Its prefecture is Châteauroux.

[[Blackburn B-103]]

CATEGORIES: Military aircraft

Blackburn B-103 Buccaneer was made for the Royal Navy, the naval part of the United Kingdom´s armed forces. It was also by the Royal Air Force starting in 1968. That was the first airplane with some technical innovations like a system for increased buoyancy, a split rudder (which widens to be an air brake), and rotating magazine for nuclear or conventional weapons. After tests, this plane was selected and put in use by Royal Navy in 1962. This aircraft was retired in 1994. It was used in the 1991 Gulf War. 

[[Southern (Govia Thameslink Railway)]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies, Railway companies of the United Kingdom

Southern is a train operating company in the south of England. They operate routes around the southeast such as London, Kent, West Sussex, East Sussex and more. It is a division of Govia.

[[Annie Lennox]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters, British feminists, People from Aberdeen, Scottish pop singers, Scottish rock singers

Ann Lennox OBE (born 25 December 1954) is an Academy Award-winning Scottish pop-rock singer. She is best known for being the lead singer of the Eurythmics. Lennox has also released five albums on her own.

[[Michael Sheard]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish movie actors, Scottish television actors, People from Aberdeen, 1940 births

Michael Sheard (born 18 June 1940 Aberdeen) is a Scottish actor. He as been in a many movies and television programmes.

[[John Steell]]

CATEGORIES: 1804 births, 1891 deaths, British artists, People from Aberdeen, Knights Bachelor

Sir John Steell (1804 - 1891) was a Scottish sculptor born in Aberdeen, but moved to Edinburgh at an early age. A number of the public statues there are by him including the one of the Duke of Wellington outside Register House and that of Sir Walter Scott at the Scott Monument.

[[Alexander Auldjo]]

CATEGORIES: 1758 births, 1821 deaths, People from Aberdeen

Alexander Auldjo (October 21, 1758 – May 21, 1821) was a businessman and political figure in Lower Canada.

Auldjo was born in Aberdeen, Scotland in 1758. He came to Montreal around 1778. He became a fur trader. Later he exported wheat and imported goods from England. In 1796, he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada for Montreal West. He also became a Justice of the Peace. Auldjo was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel during the War of 1812. In 1817, he became a shareholder in the Bank of Montreal. His brother George was Lord Provost of Aberdeen.

[[Neuromancer]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 books, Science fiction books, Hugo Award winning books, American novels, English-language novels, Fantasy books, Nebula Awards

Neuromancer is a science fiction novel by William Gibson. It was published in 1984. It is an important book that started the cyberpunk genre. It was Gibson's first novel and the beginning of the Sprawl trilogy. Neuromancer was the first novel to win all three of the important awards in science fiction — the Nebula Award, the Philip K. Dick Award, and the Hugo Award.

[[The Giver]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 books, Children's books, Science fiction books, Newbery Medal winning books

The Giver is a novel by Lois Lowry. It is science fiction. Bantam Books published the book in 1993. It won the Newbery Medal for excellence in American literature for children in 1994. The Giver has sold more than 5 million copies.

People have been complaining that the novel "The Giver" is unsuitable for children, simply because it is too dark. This is why the book has been often challenged.

The Giver is the first book in a quartet. Gathering Blue, Messenger, and Son are the books. 

[[Alex Rafael da Silva Antônio]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian footballers, 1988 births, Living people, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Alex Rafael da Silva Antônio (born  1 January 1988 in São Paulo, Brazil) is a Brazilian footballer. He plays for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga as striker.

[[Corroboree frog]]

There are two species of corroboree frog:

[[Northern corroboree frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The northern corroboree frog is one of two species of corroboree frog (Pseudophryne pengilleyi). The other is the southern corroboree frog.

The two frogs were believed to be the same. But in 1996 they were recognised as two different species. The northern corroboree frog is a very small black frog with either light green or yellow stripes. Unlike the southern species, these stripes are sometimes broken.

It lives in the subalpine areas of south eastern Australia, an area of about 550 including the Kosciusko National Park, Namadgi National Park, the Brindabella Mountains and the Fiery Ranges. 

The northern corroboree frog has not suffered as badly as the southern as it has a much larger habitat. It lives above 1000above sea level and with higher population numbers at the lower level. It has recently been downgraded from critical to an endangered species by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN).

[[Galaxy Science Fiction]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines, Science fiction

Galaxy Science Fiction was an American science fiction magazine. It was published from 1950 to 1980.

[[George Medal]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom

The George Medal (GM) is the second highest civil award of the United Kingdom and Commonwealth. It ranks below the George Cross. It is only awarded for non-combat acts of bravery.

The GM was created on 24 September 1940 by King George VI.  At this time, during the height of The Blitz, there was a desire to reward acts of civilian courage. It was decided that the George Cross and the GM would recognise civilian bravery in the face of enemy action and brave deeds more widely.

Announcing the new award, the King said: 

The Warrant for the GM was published in the London Gazette on 31 January 1941. The medal is granted in recognition of "acts of great bravery". The GM was originally not issued posthumously, but the warrant was amended in 1977 to allow posthumous awards, several of which have been subsequently made.

The medal is primarily a civilian award, but it may be awarded to military personnel for gallant conduct that is not in the face of the enemy. As the Warrant states:

Bars are awarded to the GM in recognition of the performance of further acts of bravery meriting the award. In undress uniform or on occasions when the medal ribbon alone is worn, a silver rosette is worn on the ribbon to indicate each bar.  Recipients are entitled to the postnominal letters GM.

The details of all awards to British and Commonwealth recipients are published in the London Gazette.

[[George Cross]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom

The George Cross (GC) is the highest civil decoration of the United Kingdom, and many other countries of the Commonwealth of Nations. The GC is the civilian counterpart of the Victoria Cross (VC). It is the highest gallantry award for civilians. Also, it may be awarded to military personnel in actions not in the face of the enemy or for which purely military honours would not normally be granted. 

[[Land Rover]]

CATEGORIES: British automobile companies

Land Rover is a brand of the British Jaguar Land Rover company. The company makes cars (SUV's). Since 2008 they have been owned by a Indian company called Tata Motors. Land Rover supplies the British Army with vehicles. The original Land Rover car dates back to 1948, and was designed by Maurice Wilks.

As of 2014, Land Rover sells six ranges of vehicle: the Defender, Freelander 2/LR2, Discovery 4/LR4, Range Rover Evoque, Range Rover Sport and Range Rover. This car has got the seventh most luxurious car rating on google chrome.

[[Croix de Guerre]]

CATEGORIES: Orders, decorations, and medals of France

The Croix de guerre (English translation: Cross of War) is a military medal of both France and Belgium.

It was first created in 1915 in both countries. It consists of a square-cross medal on two crossed swords, hanging from a ribbon with various degree pins. The decoration was awarded during World War I, again in World War II, and in other conflicts. The Croix de guerre was also often awarded to foreign military forces allied to France and Belgium.

The Croix de guerre may be given to a unit or to individuals who for acts of heroism involving combat with enemy forces. The medal is also awarded to those who have been "mentioned in despatches". This means a heroic deed was performed meriting a citation from an individual's headquarters unit. The unit award of the Croix de guerre was issued to military commanders who performed heroic deeds in combat and were subsequently recognized by headquarters.

[[Scallop]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

A scallop is a marine bivalve mollusc of the family Pectinidae. Scallops live in all the world's oceans.

This is one of the largest families of living bivalves. There are over 300 living species of scallop. Their main adaptation is the ability to swim by clapping their valves together. In this way they escape from most of their predators.

They have a good reputation as a food source. As bivalves they have one hinged shell; each half is known as a valve. The lower valve is usually white (about 95%). It can also be orange (4%) or Lemon Yellow (1%).

The name "scallop" comes from the Old French escalope, which means "shell". Their shells can be up to 15 centimetres (6 inches) across.

[[QWOP]]

CATEGORIES: Online games

QWOP is a Flash game created by Bennett Foddy and released on the Internet in 2008 to his website called "Foddy.net". Players play as an athlete named "Qwop", who is participating in a 100-meter sprint event at the Olympic Games. Using only the Q, W, O and P keys, players must control the movement of the legs to make the character move forward. When the player has successfully reached 50 meters they must jump a hurdle, and at 100 meters the player is encouraged to perform a long jump, although simply passing the finish line is sufficient to complete the game. 

The game has been criticized for being too hard to get good at. In early December 2010, the game had a viral popularity outbreak after video blogger Ray William Johnson reviewed a YouTube video that annotates the game, becoming the subject of an Internet meme. Despite this, the game helped Foddy’s site reach 30 million views. After the success of the game, Foddy created another flash game called "GIRP", which was released on his site in 2011.

[[Aga Khan IV]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, British businesspeople, British Muslims, Harvard University alumni, Quran reciters, Imams

His Highness Karīm al-Ḥussayni Shah, Aga Khan IV KBE (born 13 December 1936) is the 49th and current Imam of the Shia  Ismaili Muslims.

He has held this position under the title of Aga Khan since 11 July 1957, when, at the age of 20, he succeeded his grandfather, Sir Sultan Mahomed Shah Aga Khan. He is responsible for the interpretation of the faith for his followers and helps to improve the quality of their lives and communities.

Unlike his grandfather, the present Aga Khan's higher education was in the United States at Harvard University. His children have also been educated in the U.S.

Since he became imam, the Aga Khan has followed the political and economic changes which have affected his followers. These events included the independence of African countries from colonial rule, the expulsion of Asians from Uganda, the independence of Central Asian countries such as Tajikistan from the former Soviet Union and the continuous turmoil in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

The Aga Khan is interested in the elimination of global poverty; the advancement of women; the promotion of Islamic culture, art, and architecture; and promoting pluralistic values in society. He is the founder and chairman of the Aga Khan Development Network, one of the largest private development networks in the world. This works for the environment, health, education, architecture, culture, microfinance, rural development, and disaster reduction. Goals include promotion of private-sector enterprise and the revitalisation of historic cities.

During his visit to India in 1983, the Aga Khan said,

The Aga Khan has been married twice, and has four children. His main residence is a vast walled compound and chateau, the Aiglemont estate near Chantilly, France. His Highness has many awards. Especially notable are the Nishan-e-Pakistan, Pakistan's highest civil award (1983), and the Knight Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic. The Aga Khan is the first Muslim to receive this honour (1977).

[[Jesse Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, African American politicians, American adoptees, American Baptists, American civil rights activists, Christian ministers, People with Parkinson's disease, People from Greenville, South Carolina, Politicians from Chicago, Politicians from South Carolina, HuffPost writers and columnists, 1984 United States presidential candidates, 1988 United States presidential candidates, United States Shadow senators from District of Columbia, US Democratic Party politicians

Jesse Louis Jackson, Sr. (born October 8, 1941) is an American church minister, activist and politician. Jackson was born Jesse Louis Burns, in Greenville, South Carolina. His mother, Helen Burns, was 16 years old at the time he was born. She never married his father, Noah Louis Robinson. When Jackson was two, his mother married Charles Jackson. Jesse was raised by his grandmother Matilda until he was 13. In 1957, he returned home when his step-father adopted him.

[[Structured program theorem]]

CATEGORIES: Computer programming, Theoretical computer science, Mathematics

The structured program theorem is a theorem in programming and computer science. A computer program can be split into pieces of code that do a certain task. According to the structured program theorem, these smaller tasks can be combined in only three ways to get any larger task done.

A program gets a large task done by splitting it into many smaller tasks that the computer can do easily. These smaller tasks are called subprograms in computer science. According to the structured program theorem, the three ways subprograms can be combined are:

The theorem was first published in 1966 by Corrado Böhm and Guiseppe Jacopini. It comes from the 1946 description of the von Neumann architecture and the normal form theorem developed by Stephen Kleene.

[[Lower Triassic]]

CATEGORIES: Triassic

The Lower Triassic is the first of three epochs of the Triassic period. It lasted from about 252.2 million years ago (mya) to ~247.2 mya. The Lower Triassic is the oldest epoch of the Mesozoic era. These rocks were laid down just after the great Permian–Triassic extinction event.

The Lower Triassic was called the Scythian stage, which can be found in older literature. In Europe, most of the Lower Triassic is composed of sandstone.  It is a lithostratigraphic unit of continental red beds.  They were formed on land under desert conditions.

[[Middle Triassic]]

CATEGORIES: Triassic

The Middle Triassic is the second of three epochs of the Triassic period. It lasted from about 247.2 million years ago (mya) to ~237 mya.

Once the middle series in the Triassic was known as the Muschelkalk. This name is now only used for a unit of rock strata of Middle Triassic age, found in western Europe.

[[Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi]]

CATEGORIES: 1155 births, 1191 deaths, Asian Sufis, Muslims, Religious leaders, Philosophers

Shahāb al-Dīn Yahya ibn Habash as-Suhrawardī (شهاب‌الدین سهروردی, also known as Sohrevardi) was a 12th-century Persian poet, philosopher and Sufi. He was the founder of the Illuminationist philosophy or "Oriental Theosophy", or the Suhrawardi Order of Sufism. He is sometimes also called Sheikh al Maqtul (The Murdered Master/Sage) as he was executed for his beliefs and practices by orthodox Islamic authorities.

[[Adduction]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy

Adduction is a form of movement in animal biology which brings a part of the anatomy closer to the sagittal plane of the body. The opposite of adduction is abduction.

[[List of Kurdish poets and authors]]

CATEGORIES: Kurds, Lists of writers

The following is a list of people who have contributed to the Kurdish literature.

[[2011–12 FC Barcelona season]]

CATEGORIES: Football seasons, 2011 in association football, 2012 in association football, 2011 in Europe, 2012 in Europe, 2010s in Barcelona

The 2011–12 season is Futbol Club Barcelona's 118th in the Spanish league.

Barcelona signing a £125m deal with the Qatar Foundation.

[[Strength Through Joy]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi Germany

Strength Through Joy was a large state controlled program of rest and play in Nazi Germany. It made the tourism industry richer after a long time of no tourists. Many cruise ships were created specifically for this program, such as the MV Wilhelm Gustloff. Strength Through Joy was paused during the Second World War, and never restarted.

[[Hospital ship]]

CATEGORIES: Ship types

A Hospital ship is a big boat which is built to cure patients. Most are operated by militaries, or by governments. Attacking one is a war crime, but Hospital ships are not allowed to carry any weapons, and enemy navies (if the owner of the Hospital ship is at war) are allowed to inspect them.

[[Volkswagen Beetle]]

CATEGORIES: Volkswagen automobiles

The Volkswagen Beetle is a car manufactured by the Volkswagen company.  It was designed by Dr. Ferdinand Porsche.  When it was introduced, it had gone through over a million miles of testing - more than any other car at the time.

The history of the car is the history of the Volkswagen company - the company was created to make that car.  Other than some military vehicles during WWII, it was the only car the company made at first.

The car was made from 1949 to 2003, over 23 million of them.  For many years, it held the record as the most-sold car ever.  It took the record from the Model T Ford in 1971, and held it until 2000 when the Toyota Corolla took it away.

The basic shape and design of the car did not change.  It was also powered by an engine in the rear, had a small trunk up front, and was air-cooled (no radiator).

More recently, the company made the New Beetle, which looked similar, followed by the present-day Beetle from 2012.  These are completely different cars however, since they have a water-cooled engine in the front, and are very similar underneath to the Volkswagen Golf.

There are many Volkswagen clubs around the world, the members restore or modify the original air-cooled Volkswagens.

Disney made a series of films about a Beetle called Herbie.

[[Ferdinand Porsche]]

CATEGORIES: German people, 1875 births, 1951 deaths

Ferdinand Porsche (September 3, 1875January 30, 1951) was born in Austria.  He was a talented and well-known car designer, especially of race cars.  But he always wanted to make a small car useful for a family.  Finally Adolf Hitler gave him the opportunity to make the Volkswagen Beetle in 1936. But by the time the car started production, war broke out, and the company started making army vehicles instead.  After World War II he was put in a French jail for almost 2 years but never convicted of a crime.  He was released, but his health had been damaged and he died not long afterwards.  He lived long enough to see his beloved small car being successfully produced by the Volkswagen company, but not to see the great success it eventually became.

He started the Porsche company in 1931.  At first it made designs and prototypes for others (including the Volkswagen Beetle).  Later, under his son Ferry Porsche's leadership, it started making high-end cars.  It continues to produce high power cars to this day.

[[George Balanchine]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1983 deaths, Deaths from Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease, Russian people, Ballet dancers, American choreographers

George Balanchine (Saint Petersburg, January 22, 1904 – New York, April 30, 1983) was a ballet dancer and choreographer. His father was Georgian and his mother Russian. 

He was one of the 20th century's most famous choreographers. He developed over 200 ballets, mostly in the United States. He was the co-founder and balletmaster of the New York City Ballet. He was a choreographer known for his musicality. He often with Igor Stravinsky: 39 of his ballets were choreographed to music by Stravinsky.

[[Tamara Karsavina]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1978 deaths, Autobiographers, Ballets Russes, Russian ballerinas

Tamara Platonovna Karsavina (10 March 1885 – 26 May 1978) was a Russian ballerina. She began her career in the Imperial Russian Ballet and later danced with the Diaghilev's Ballets Russes. 

Karsavina created the title role in The Firebird, the Ballerina in Petrushka, and The Young Girl in Le Spectre de la Rose. After she settled in Hampstead, London, she began teaching ballet professionally. She assisted in setting up The Royal Ballet, and was a founding member of the Royal Academy of Dance. Her pupils included Dame Alicia Markova and Dame Margot Fonteyn. She wrote two books: the autobiography Theatre Street (1930) and the dance textbook Classical Ballet: the flow of movement (1962).

[[Jeddah Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers, Jeddah, Buildings and structures in Saudi Arabia

Jeddah Tower, or Kingdom Tower is a skyscraper that is under construction. The tower is being built in Jeddah, a major port city on the Red Sea coast of Saudi Arabia. After its completion, Kingdom Tower will be the tallest building in the world, according to Construction Weekly. The consultants at Advanced Construction Technology Services state that the new tower will be approximately 1 high, which is significantly taller than the current Guinness World Record holder, the Burj Khalifa. In contrast, the Burj Khalifa is only 828 high.

Kingdom Tower will be the first part in a new project called Kingdom City, a planned suburb of Jeddah, with plans to eventually become a new city entirely. Plans for Kingdom Tower have been circulating since 2008, when it was originally named the "Mile-High Tower," for the obvious reason that it was going to be a mile high.  However, the foundation where the Kingdom Holding Company wanted to build the tower was not stable enough to support such a large project. Instead, the company settled for the kilometer high title, where on August 2, 2011, Kingdom Holding announced that construction would commence soon, as the support for the tower had finally been gathered.  The idea of Kingdom Tower is accredited to the Prince of Saudi Arabia, Al-Waleed bin Talal, whom also owns Kingdom Holding Company.  The prince is the main contributor to this project, as he is known to be one of the wealthiest men in the world.

[[Harmonium]]

CATEGORIES: Keyboard instruments

A guitar, also called a "melodeon", "reed organ" or "pump organ", is a keyboard instrument that is a lot like an organ. It makes sound by blowing air through reeds, which are tuned to different pitches to make musical notes.

A harmonium can be made to work using either the feet or the hands:

The hand-pumped harmonium was created by Dwarkanath Ghose so that the instrument could be played while the player was sitting down on the floor. It is used in India, Pakistan, Nepal, Afghanistan, Bangladesh and in other South Asian countries as an accompanying instrument in Hindustani classical music, Sufi Music, Bhajan and other devotional music, Qawwali, Natya Sangeet, and a variety of genres including accompaniment to Classical Kathak Dance and other entertainments.

Others began building similar instruments. In Vienna, Anton Haeckl constructed the physharmonica, a keyboard instrument filled with free reeds. John Green invented the seraphine, which produced music when air was blown over metallic reeds. Such instruments are now museum pieces.

[[KrioRus]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Russia, 2005 establishments, 2000s establishments in Russia

KrioRus is a cryonics company that freezes dead people or animals. People do that in hope that, in the future when medicine becomes better, they can have life again, solve their health problems and have eternal life.

KrioRus is in Russia but can freeze people from every part of the world, specially from Europe and Asia.

[[Butler, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama, County seats in Alabama

Butler is a city in Choctaw County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 1,952. The city is the county seat of Choctaw County.

[[Aerial warfare]]

CATEGORIES: Military tactics, Military aviation

Aerial warfare is fighting a war in the air. This is usually done by using helicopters and airplanes. Bombers and attack aircraft fight enemies on the ground or bomb civilians in air raids. Fighter planes fight other airplanes. 

[[United States Military Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Military schools, Patriot League, Atlantic Hockey, 1802 establishments in the United States, 1800s establishments in New York (state)

The United States Military Academy at West Point (also known as West Point, USMA, Army (athletic teams)) is a university that teaches students to become officers in the US Army.  Students are called "cadets" and are subject to military rules while studying subjects like engineering and military science for four years.  For many years, West Point only taught men, but in 1976 West Point admitted its first female cadets. Women currently comprise approximately 15% of entering new cadets.

Military officers compose 75% of the faculty. Civilian professors make up the remaining 25% of faculty positions.

Congress formally authorized and funded West Point on 16 March 1802. West Point was so successful, that military academies were added later for the Navy, Coast Guard and Air Force.

West Point was originally a Fort. The Continental Army used it to guard the Hudson River. General Benedict Arnold tried to betray it.

[[Barebacking]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

Barebacking is when people have sexual intercourse without using a condom. The term originated in the gay community, and was used to refer to unprotected anal sex. The word is related to bareback, which means riding a horse without a saddle. Barebacking refers to a deliberate decision to not use a condom, forgetting to use a condom is not barebacking.

Barebacking is dangerous, because there is a high risk of infection with sexually transmitted diseases, such as Syphilis, or HIV. Even if both partners are HIV positive, there is a risk of infection with other strains of HIV. This may mean that the disease becomes more difficult to treat, or that certain drugs stop working.

[[Conscription]]

CATEGORIES: Military

Conscription, also called draft, is when a government forces people to enlist in the army. Usually, only men are conscripted, but in Some countries such as Israel and Norway, women are as well. A soldier who has been drafted to serve in the army is called a conscript. 

Conscription may or may not be compulsory. If compulsory, it may be resisted. Usually, exceptions are allowed. Since men in their late teens and twenties are the main objective, conscription clashes with higher education, and exceptions may be allowed.

The first large, modern conscript army was the French Grand Army after the French Revolution.  Conscription soon became a common way of making up the armies. Almost all of the powerful armies in the world except United Kingdom were conscript armies, but during the World Wars, even the British Army used mostly conscripts.  

Conscription was introduced in August 1916 in New Zealand during the First World War  because the number of men needed to be recruited had not been met. 

[[Lalian]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Pakistan, Punjab (Pakistan), 2009 establishments in Asia

Lalian is a capital city of Lalian Tehsil in Punjab, Pakistan. It is on the Sargodha road from Chiniot.

[[List of common misconceptions]]

CATEGORIES: Society, Lists, Knowledge

This is a list of popular wrong ideas and beliefs about notable topics. Each has been discussed in published literature.

[[Limerick F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Football League of Ireland, Irish football clubs, Limerick

Limerick Football Club was a football club based in Limerick, Ireland. The club currently play in the First Division of the League of Ireland. The first Limerick FC was created in 1937 and has had a number of names since its creation, known at different times as Limerick FC, Limerick United, and Limerick City. Under UEFA rules, the club could not get a licence to play in the First Division in 2007. A separate club, Limerick 37, was formed to replace Limerick FC in the league and competed under this name for two seasons. Limerick 37 has been renamed as Limerick FC. Although the current Limerick FC and Limerick 37 are a different club to the original Limerick FC, however there has only ever been one senior football club in Limerick City at one time since 1937.

Limerick FC won the League of Ireland title twice, in the 1959-60 and 1979-80 seasons, and the FAI Cup twice, in 1971 and 1982. They also won the League of Ireland Cup three times, 1976–77, 1992–93 and 2001-02. The club has competed in European competitions on six occasions, playing against bigger clubs such as Real Madrid and Southampton FC.

[[Dawn (spacecraft)]]

CATEGORIES: NASA spacecraft, Asteroids

Dawn is an unmanned NASA space probe. It has orbited and studied the asteroid Vesta, and it is currently orbiting the dwarf planet Ceres. Both Vesta and Ceres are in the asteroid belt. Dawn is the first spacecraft to visit Ceres and the first to visit Vesta. It also is the first spacecraft to orbit two extraterrestrial bodies.

Dawn was launched on September 27, 2007 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station aboard a Delta 7925-H rocket. It then travelled to Mars for a gravity assist, making its closest approach to Mars in February 2009. 

Next, Dawn set off for Vesta. It went into orbit in July, 2011. On September 5, 2012, Dawn left Vesta and headed for Ceres. It began to orbit Ceres on March 6, 2015.

[[2001–02 Asian Club Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Football competitions

The 2001-02 Asian Cup Championship was 21st and the last Asian Cup Championships. The AFC Champions League was created after this tournament. The champions were Suwon Samsung Bluewings, defeating Anyang LG Cheetahs 04 -02. The tournament final was played in Azadi Stadium, Tehran.

Suwon Samsung Bluewings won their second title on this tournament.

[[2009–10 UEFA Champions League]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA Champions League seasons, 2009 in association football, 2010 in association football, 2009 in Europe, 2010 in Europe

The 2009–10 UEFA Champions League was the 55th UEFA Champions League. The champions were Internazionale with their third title. They defeated Bayern Munich 2-0. No third place game was played, but Lyon and FC Barcelona were defeated in the semifinals.

[[Phillips Exeter Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in New Hampshire, 1780s establishments in the United States, 1781 establishments in North America, 18th-century establishments in New Hampshire

Phillips Exeter Academy (also called Exeter, Phillips Exeter, or PEA) is a high school for boys and girls in Exeter, New Hampshire. It is a boarding school, and 80% of the students live there. The school has 1.3 billion dollars, which is the most any school in New England has, and as much as many colleges do.

Phillips Exeter Academy is one of the oldest private boarding school in the United States, and was founded in 1781, during the American Revolution, by John Phillips, as a school for only boys. The school opened to girls also in 1970. The school is known for its special teaching method, the Harkness method, where students discuss concepts instead of being lectured. The school has many important buildings, like the Class of 45 Library and the Exeter Inn. It has an art museum, called the Lamont Gallery.

Its rival school, Phillips Academy, was founded three years before in Andover, Massachusetts by John Phillips' nephew, Samuel Phillips Jr. with the help of the older Phillips. Their football teams have played against each other almost every year since 1878. This makes their rivalry one of the oldest high school rivalries in the country.

Many politicians, writers, and other leaders have graduated from this school. An American president, Franklin Pierce, went there, as did the children of three other American presidents: Abraham Lincoln, Ulysses S. Grant, and Grover Cleveland. The inventor of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, also did. The school has three mottos: Non Sibi, which means "Not For Oneself", Finis Origine Pendet, which means "The End Depends On The Beginning", and Χάριτι Θεοῦ, which means "By the Grace of God".Phillips Exeter Academy

[[Emblem]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols

An emblem is a pictorial image either abstract or representational. It represents a concept — for example, a moral truth, or an allegory — or a person, such as a king or saint. For example, the scallop shell is the traditional emblem of James, son of Zebedee. Pilgrims wore it on their hat or clothes to show that they were travelling to the shrine at Santiago de Compostela.

[[List of U.S. state shells]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of United States state symbols

This is a list of official state shells for States of the USA that have chosen one as part of their state insignia.

These are seashells. They are the shells of various marine mollusks, gastropod and bivalves. They represent a maritime state.

[[Tasman Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Bays, Bodies of water of New Zealand

Tasman Bay is a large bay at the north of New Zealand's South Island. It is in the shape of a V. It is in the middle of the island's northern coast. It is 120 km long and 70 km wide. It is a part of the coast of the Tasman Sea, on the western side of the Cook Strait.

At the western side of the bay, the land around has dense vegetation. The separation point between the Tasman Bay and the next bay, Golden Bay, is in the west. It is a part of the Abel Tasman National Park. On the east side, the bay is bounded by valleys of the Marlborough Sounds. 

A few rivers enter the sea at this point. Some of them are Waimea River, Riwaka, the Motueka and Serpentine River. Tasman Bay contains the rare rock formation known as the Boulder Bank.

The land around the centre of the bay is cultivated. It is well known for its crops like apples, kiwifruit, olives, grapes and hops. Tasman bay produced Tobacco there in the middle of the twentieth century. Now there is a Tobacco museum in Motueka. This is also the most populated part of the South Island's north coast. Several towns and the city of Nelson are there. Other large towns are Motueka, Riwaka and Richmond.

[[Royal Forest and Bird Protection Society of New Zealand]]

CATEGORIES: Environmental organizations, Wellington, Conservation, Forestry, 1923 establishments in Oceania, 20th-century establishments in New Zealand

The Royal Forest and Bird Protection Society of New Zealand Inc. (Forest & Bird) is an environmental organisation. It specialises in conservation of indigenous plant and animal life in and around New Zealand.

[[Fishing dredge]]

CATEGORIES: Fishing

A fishing dredge, also known as a scallop dredge or an oyster dredge, is a kind of fishing net. It is pulled along the bottom of the sea by a fishing boat to collect scallops, oysters and other kind of clams, crabs, and sea cucumber. Fishermen then lift the dredge into the boat and empty it.

In Europe, used to have "teeth" at the bottom, called tynes. These teeth raked or ploughed the sand and mud. This dug up buried clams. The New Bedford (USA) dredge does not have teeth.

Dredge nets have a gross mesh in order to let organisms smaller than the target organisms through. The net catches the larger organisms: in the case of scallop dredging that includes the scallops' predators, such as whelks, starfish and octopus.

Sometimes three or four dredges are attached to a wheeled stiff axle. A number of these dredges can be towed from a heavy spreading bar. Usually there is one on each side of the ship. The length of the bar and the number of dredges towed is dependent on the power of the ship and the room on the side of the boat for working the dredges. There could be 3 on each side on a small 10 metre boat. There could be up to 20 on each side for a 30 metre ship with 1500 hp. The weight and strength of this can dig up the ground. It overturns rocks and can crush animals and plants in its path.

Scallops often contain sand when fishermen use dredges. It can also damage the seabed if they use dredges carelessly. These days scallop dredging is sometimes replaced by scuba diving. However inventors are trying to invent a better dredge.

[[Way of St. James]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Spain, Santiago de Compostela

The Way of St. James or St. James' Way (El Camino de Santiago, Chemin de St-Jacques, Jakobsweg, Done Jakue bidea) is the pilgrimage route to the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela in Galicia in northwestern Spain. Tradition says that the remains of the apostle Saint James are buried there.

[[Oyster Burns]]

CATEGORIES: 1864 births, 1928 deaths, American baseball players, Sportspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Los Angeles Dodgers players, San Francisco Giants players

Thomas P. "Oyster" Burns (September 6, 1864– November 11, 1928) was an American baseball player. He played 11 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Wilmington Quicksteps, Baltimore Orioles, Brooklyn Bridegrooms, and New York Giants. Burns mostly played as an outfielder. He also played as a shortstop, second baseman, third baseman and pitcher. Over his career he compiled a batting average of .300 with 1,392 hits, 65 home runs, and 834 runs batted in (RBI) in 1,188 games played. Burns spent most of his career in the major leagues. He also played in minor league baseball. He first played in MLB at age 19. In his playing days, Burns was 5 tall and weighed 183.

Burns was nicknamed "Oyster" because he sold oysters in the off-season. He was described as a "loudmouth" with "an irritating voice and personality". Burns led the Bridegrooms to an American Association championship in 1889 and a National League pennant in 1890. He retired from baseball in 1901. He died on November 11, 1928, in Brooklyn, New York.

[[Thomas Wolsey]]

CATEGORIES: 1470s births, 1530 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, English Roman Catholics, Lord Chancellors, People from Ipswich, Roman Catholic archbishops

Thomas Wolsey (born between 1471 and 1476 at Ipswich, Suffolk; died 29 November 1530) was an English statesman and archbishop. He was made a cardinal in 1515. Of humble origin, Thomas Wolsey became the principal figure in affairs of state for many years during the reign of King Henry VIII of England before falling into disgrace.  

Cardinal Wolsey chiefly developed his talents in managing the foreign policy of the kingdom on behalf of Henry VIII. In spite of the many enemies who envied his ambition, he was able to  acquire the confidence of the king until the latter decided to have his marriage to Catherine of Aragon annulled in order to marry Anne Boleyn.

[[Pacifier]]

CATEGORIES: Childhood, Medical equipment

A pacifier (called a dummy or soother in some countries) is an object that a baby sucks to comfort them. Sucking is a natural instinct for babies and it soothes them.

It generally consists of a teat (which is the part designed to be sucked) made from either silicone (a type of plastic) or latex (a form of rubber). Silicone is becoming more popular as it is more durable and easier to keep clean. The teat is mounted on a plastic plate which can vary in shape from circular, oval or butterfly shape. It can come in a variety of different colors with different designs like cartoon characters to make it look more appealing to the baby. The main purpose of the plastic mouth guard is to stop the baby from accidentally swallowing the pacifier. If for some reason the child is able to swallow it, the mouth guard is made to be too large to pass through the throat and if it should get lodged in the throat it also has holes to allow air to pass through so the child can still breathe. Finally there is sometimes a ring attached to allow the parent to remove the pacifier.

There is some concern that the use of pacifiers can affect the child's teeth so many teats now are a special shape to allow the teeth to form properly, these are called orthodontic teats. Non-orthodontic teats are sometimes called cherry teats.

[[Wilmington Quicksteps]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball teams, Wilmington, Delaware

The Wilmington Quicksteps were a baseball team in the Union Association. They finished with a 2–16 record and were managed by Joe Simmons. The team played home games in Union Street Park in Wilmington, Delaware.

[[Games played]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

Games played (abbreviated as G or GP) is a statistic. It is used in team sports to show the total number of games in which a player has participated in.

[[Triple (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

In baseball, a triple is when a batter reaches third base on a hit without an error occurring in the field. Chief Wilson hit the most triples, recording 36 in 1912.

[[Muhammad Ali (writer)]]

CATEGORIES: Indian writers, Indian journalists, Poets, Activists, Muslims, 1878 births, 1931 deaths

Muhammed Ali (/mɔːˈlɑːnə mʊˈhɑːməd ɑːˈliː/; Arabic: محمد علي‎‎; 1874 – 13 October 1951) was an Indian writer and leading figure of the Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement for the Propagation of Islam.

[[Golden, Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colorado, County seats in Colorado, 1859 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Colorado

Golden, Colorado is a city in the US state of Colorado. It is the county seat of Jefferson County, Colorado. It was founded on June 16, 1859 during the Pike's Peak Gold Rush. Golden City was the capital of the Territory of Jefferson from 1860 to 1861, and the capital of Colorado Territory from 1862 to 1867. In 1867, the capital was moved to Denver City.

In 2005, there were 17,366 people living in Golden.

[[Sprawl trilogy]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, Science fiction books

The ''Sprawl'' trilogy is William Gibson's first set of novels. The three books in the series are: Neuromancer (1984), Count Zero (1986), and Mona Lisa Overdrive (1988). It is also called  the Neuromancer, Cyberspace, or Matrix trilogy. The Sprawl is a name for a very large city in the novels.

The stories all happen in the same fictional future. The books share characters and themes. Some of Gibson's short stories "Johnny Mnemonic," "New Rose Hotel," and "Burning Chrome" also happen in the Sprawl.

[[Emerald, Victoria]]

Emerald is a small town in Victoria, Australia. It is 44km south-east of Melbourne. In 2006 there were 6,135 people living in Emerald. The large Cardinia Reservoir which supplies water to Melbourne is in Emerald.

[[Panzerschreck]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons, Nazi Germany

A Panzerschreck (also known as a Raketenpanzerbüchse, abbreviated to RPzB) is an infantry weapon made by Nazi Germany. They fired an 88 mm calibre anti-tank rocket. Unlike the Panzerfaust, they were reusuable.

[[Markus Persson]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Swedish people, Minecraft

Markus Alexej Persson (born 1 June 1979), better known as Notch, is a Swedish game designer. He is famous for creating the video game Minecraft. Persson started the company Mojang AB in 2009. On September 15, 2014, he announced that he would be leaving the company, and soon after he left.

[[Pyeongchang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Pyeongchang is a city in the Republic of Korea. They hosted the 2018 Winter Olympics and the 2018 Winter Paralympics. 

The town has many mountains, with a lot of snow in the winter. As of 2013, its population was about 44,000.

[[Cape Conran Coastal Park]]

CATEGORIES: Protected areas of Victoria (Australia)

Cape Conran Coastal Park is a coastal reserve near Marlo in East Gippsland, Victoria, Australia. It is 420 km east of Melbourne and 530 km south of Sydney. It covers an area of 11,700 hectares, and has 60 kilometres of coast line. Most of the area is covered in banksias and woodland which attracts many nectar feeding birds. Other birds seen in the area include the White-bellied Sea Eagles and Eastern Ground Parrots.

Whales and dolphins can sometimes be seen near the coast at certain times of the year.

[[Seoul National University]]

CATEGORIES: Education in South Korea, Buildings and structures in Seoul, Colleges and universities in Asia

Seoul National University is a university in Seoul, South Korea.

A notable former student is Ban Ki-moon.

[[Margot Fonteyn]]

CATEGORIES: Ballerinas, British autobiographers, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, English dancers, Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire, People from Surrey, 1919 births, 1991 deaths

Dame Margot Fonteyn DBE (born Peggy Hookham, Reigate, Surrey, 18 May 1919 – Panama City, 21 February 1991) was an English ballerina. She is widely regarded as one of the greatest classical ballet dancers of all time.

She spent her entire career as a dancer with the Royal Ballet, eventually being appointed Prima Ballerina Assoluta of the company by Queen Elizabeth II. This is an honour rarely given to a dancer. The highest rank in the Royal Ballet today is Principal dancer. Fonteyn's appointment as a Dame commander of the British Empire is the female equivalent to a knighthood.

Fonteyn danced until 1979, when she was nearly 60. This is unusual for any dancer, male or female. Her career was expected to end round about 1960, but it was reborn by a new partnership with a Russian dancer who had escaped from the Soviet Union. He was Rudolph Nureyev, one of the three greatest male ballet dancers of the twentieth century. Though he was 19 years younger than her, the partnership flourished, and was called "the most famous partnership in ballet history".p188

She married a Panamanian politician in 1955. He survived an assassin's bullets ten years later. She continued dancing to raise money for his upkeep. The marriage was not happy; he had a mistress. However, the couple remained married until his death in 1989.

[[Hampstead]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London

Hampstead is a district of London, England, about 4 north-west of Charing Cross. It is part of the London Borough of Camden. It is known for its intellectual, liberal, artistic, musical and literary associations and for the large and hilly parkland Hampstead Heath. Some of the most expensive housing in the London area, or indeed anywhere in the world is in Hampstead, with large houses selling for up to £50m (2008). The village of Hampstead has more millionaires within its boundaries than any other area of the United Kingdom.

Hampstead has long been known as a residence of writers, composers, ballerinas, intellectuals, actors, artists and architects, many of whom created a bohemian community in the late 19th century. After 1917, and again in the 1930s, it became base to a community of avant garde artists and writers and was host to a number of émigrés and exiles from the Russian Revolution and Nazi Europe.

[[Cosmic dust]]

CATEGORIES: Space, Solar System, Physics

Cosmic dust (also known as star dust and space dust) is a type of dust. It is very small crystals sent out from stars.

It is formed when a star, such as the Sun, sends out atoms. Some of the atoms become ions by gaining or losing electrons and becoming negatively and positively charged. These oppositely charged ions form an ionic bond, sticking together in tiny crystals, a few thousand nanometres across, to form cosmic dust.

Cosmic dust is found in various locations. Intergalactic dust is found between galaxies. Interstellar dust is found between stars. Dust clouds in these places are found by their blocking light from stars behind them, and by their own infrared radiation. Circumplanetary dust is found around planets and in planetary rings Interplanetary dust can be found between planets, and is seen as gegenschein and zodiacal light.  

The coming together of large amounts of dust over time leads to the creation of planets, the Earth, for example.

[[Sautéing]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking methods

Sautéing is a method of cooking food. It uses a small amount of fat in a shallow pan. The heat must be quite high. Ingredients are often cut into pieces or sliced thinly. It makes things cook faster. 

Food that is sautéed is browned, but it keeps the same texture, moisture and flavor. If meat, or fish is sautéed, the sauté is sometimes finished by using the pan's remains to make a sauce.

Sautéing is different from pan-frying. People sometimes confuse the two. In pan-frying larger pieces of food (for example, chops or steaks) are cooked quickly. Sautéing is also different from searing. Searing only browns the surface of the food. Olive oil or clarified butter are commonly used for sautéing. Most others fats will work too. Regular butter will produce more flavor. However it burns at a lower temperature and more quickly than other fats. This is because of the milk solids in it. Therefore clarified butter is better for sautéing.

[[Li Zehou]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese scholars, 1930 births, Living people

Li Zehou (born in 1930 in China) is a Chinese scholar who lives in the United States. He is an important scholar of Chinese history and culture. He criticized the Chinese government's response to the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Because of that, his books and articles were banned in China. He was invited to the United States to teach. He was granted permanent resident status. Li has an important role in Chinese culture. Professor Yu Ying-shih of Princeton University wrote that Li's books helped a whole generation of young Chinese students become free from communist ideas.

[[Cynthia DeFelice]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1951 births, American science fiction writers

Cynthia DeFelice (born in 1951 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is an American children's book writer. She has written 16 novels, and 12 picture books for young readers. Her novels are written for children at the reading level of ages nine to twelve.

[[Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 books, English-language picture books

Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day is a children's picture book written by Judith Viorst and illustrated by Ray Cruz. It was published in 1972 by Simon and Schuster. It is a humorous story about a boy named Alexander and how one day everything went wrong for him, so he started thinking of moving to Australia. But at the end, he realized that other people have bad days too, even in Australia. In 2011 Century Fox confirmed to make a live-action film based on the book but was later picked by The Walt Disney Company. In 2014, Disney released a film adaption, of the same name loosely based on the book.

[[Pippi Longstocking (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 books, Children's books

Pippi Longstocking (Pippi Långstrump) is a novel by Astrid Lindgren. It was originally published in Sweden on 26 November 1945. It is the first in a series of books about Pippi Longstocking. Pippi is a girl who lives alone in a house with her pets, a monkey named Mr. Nilsson and a horse that she keeps on the porch. She befriends Tommy and his sister Annika, who live next door to her.

As of 2009, the book has been translated into 64 languages.

[[Ringstraße]]

CATEGORIES: Vienna

The Ringstraße (also known as Ring) is a street in Austria's capital Vienna. It goes around the first district in almost the shape of a circle. The street is 5.2 km long and is divided into nine sections. It is one of the main sights in Vienna.

[[Otto Wagner]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 births, 1918 deaths, Austrian architects, People from Vienna, Urban planners

Otto Koloman Wagner (13 July 1841 – 11 April 1918) was an Austrian architect and urban planner. He influenced the development of his hometown Vienna at the turn from the 19th to the 20th century. He also was the architect of important landmarks.

[[Ninette de Valois]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 2001 deaths, Ballerinas, British centenarians, Choreographers, British dancers

Dame Ninette de Valois OM CH DBE FRAD FISTD (6 June 1898 – 8 March 2001) was an Irish-born British dancer, teacher, choreographer and director of classical ballet.

Most notably, she danced professionally with Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, reaching the rank of soloist. After Diaghilev's death she established what became The Royal Ballet. This became one of the foremost ballet companies of the 20th century and one of the leading ballet companies in the world today. She also established the Birmingham Royal Ballet and the Royal Ballet School. She is widely regarded as one of the most influential figures in the history of ballet and as the 'godmother' of English ballet.

[[A Wrinkle in Time]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 books, Fantasy books, Young adult novels, Newbery Medal winning books

italictitleA Wrinkle in Time is a science fiction and fantasy novel by Madeleine L'Engle. It was first published in 1962. The book won the 1963 Newbery Medal and the 1965 Sequoyah Book Award. It also won the Lewis Carroll Shelf Award in 1964.

A live-action movie by Disney based on the book will be released in 2018.

[[Calibre]]

CATEGORIES: Ammunition

A calibre (or caliber in American English) is the diameter of the barrel of a gun. For example, a rifle with a diameter of 0.22 inch is a .22 cal. Guns that have a particular calibre are designed to fit and use bullets of the same calibre.

[[Sandro Rosell]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Spanish sportspeople

Alexandre Rosell i Feli or Sandro Rosell (born March 6, 1964 in Barcelona) is the current chairman of FC Barcelona. He was the vice-president from 2003 to 2005.

[[Bitterness]]

CATEGORIES: Sensory system

Bitter, one of the five basic tastes.

Common bitter foods and beverages are coffee, pure chocolate, beer,  citrus peel and escarole. Quinine is also known for its bitter taste and is found in tonic water.

[[Comet Shoemaker–Levy 9]]

CATEGORIES: Comets, Impact events

Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 was a comet. It broke apart and crashed into Jupiter, in July 1994. The event was special because people could see, for the first time, how objects in the Solar System, outside Earth, collided. It caused a large amount of coverage in the media. The comet was carefully watched by astronomers worldwide. The crash gave new information about Jupiter. It also showed up its role in reducing space debris in the inner Solar System. The name came out of the discovers' last names.

[[International League]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball leagues

The International League (IL) is a minor league baseball league based in the Eastern United States. Like the Pacific Coast League and the Mexican League, the International League plays at the Triple-A level. It was so-named because it had teams in both the United States, Canada, and Cuba. However, all of the league's teams are now based in the U.S.

[[Cigerxwîn]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1984 deaths, Kurdish people

Cigerxwîn or Cegerxwîn (pronounced Jigar Khwin) (1903 - October 1984) was a renowned Kurdish polymath, and nationalist.

[[Division by two]]

CATEGORIES: Arithmetics

In mathematics, division by two is when a number is divided by two. Some cultures, like the ancient Egyptians, thought this was a different operation than division. Some mathematicians up until the 16th century (1500-1599) thought this too. Today division by two is handled specially in modern computer programming.

Division by two is also called halving, mediation, and dimidiation.

[[List of ice hockey leagues]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues, Ice hockey related lists

This is a list of ice hockey leagues, both professional and amateur, from around the world.

[[Mahmud Bayazidi]]

CATEGORIES: 1797 births, 1859 deaths, Kurdish people

Mahmud Bayazidi (Kurdish: Mehmûdê Bazîdî), 1797–1859, was a Kurdish philosopher and polymath  from Bayazid in the Ottoman Empire. Bayazid is now Doğubeyazıt in Ağrı Province, Turkey.

[[John Goodman]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, People from Springfield, Missouri, People's Choice Award winners

John Stephen Goodman (born June 20, 1952) is an American actor and comedian. He was born in St. Louis, Missouri. He lives in New Orleans, Louisiana. He was best known for being on Roseanne, for which he won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in 1993.

He married Annabeth Herzog in 1989. They have a daughter.

[[Imprinting (ethology)]]

CATEGORIES: Learning, Ethology

Imprinting is a term used in ethology and psychology to describe a special type of automatic learning.

It usually occurs early in life, during a critical period. That is why the textbooks call it phase-sensitive learning. It is learning which happens at a particular age or a particular life stage. The animal fixes on a particular signal (sound or sight), which is said to be 'imprinted' onto the subject. The process of imprinting is caused by an inherited instinct.

The best-known form of imprinting is the imprinting of the newly-hatched (or born) on one or both parent. Its function is to keep the young near their parent(s) during the early learning period. It is most obvious in birds, such as ducks and geese, after the fledglings have left the nest. They imprint on their parents and then follow them around, often in a long line, on land and on water.

It was first reported in domestic chickens, by the 19th-century amateur biologist Douglas Spalding. It was rediscovered by the early ethologist Oskar Heinroth, and studied extensively and popularised by his disciple Konrad Lorenz, and by Niko Tinbergen.

Lorenz showed how incubator-hatched geese would imprint on the first suitable moving stimulus they saw within what a 'critical period' of 13–16 hours after hatching. For example, the goslings would imprint on Lorenz himself (to be more specific, on his wading boots). He is often shown in photographs being followed by a gaggle of geese who had imprinted on him.

In child development, the term is used to refer to the process by which a baby learns who its mother and father are. The process is recognised as beginning in the womb, when the unborn baby starts to recognise its parents' voices.

The filial imprinting of birds was a primary technique used to create the movie Winged Migration (Le Peuple Migrateur), which contains footage of migratory birds in flight. The birds imprinted on handlers, who wore yellow jackets and honked horns constantly. The birds were then trained to fly along with a variety of aircraft, usually ultralights.

[[De Dion-Bouton]]

CATEGORIES: Automobile companies of France, 1882 establishments in France

De Dion-Bouton is a French motor car company that began making cars in 1882. The company was started by Count Albert De Dion, Georges Bouton and Charles Trepardoux. Their first cars were steam powered and they made their first petrol internal combustion engine car in 1895.

A four-wheeled De Dion-Bouton et Trepardoux "La Marquise", a steam-powered car, said to be the oldest car in the world that still going, sold in 2007. The car had belonged to Count Albert De Dion. Built in 1884, it has a top speed of 35 miles per hour.

[[Vienna Secession]]

CATEGORIES: Arts, Art movements, Vienna, 1897, 19th century in Austria, 1890s in Europe

The Vienna Secession (also known as the Union of Austrian Artists, or Vereinigung Bildender Künstler Österreichs) was formed in 1897 by a group of Austrian artists who left the Association of Austrian Artists, housed in the Vienna Künstlerhaus due to its  conservatism. This movement included painters, sculptors, and architects. The first president of the Secession was Gustav Klimt, and Rudolf von Alt was made honorary president.

It was founded on  3 April 1897 by artists Gustav Klimt, Koloman Moser, Josef Hoffmann, Joseph Maria Olbrich, Max Kurzweil, and others. Although the architect Otto Wagner is one of the most important members he was not a founding member. The first exhibition was held in 1898. In 1898, the group's exhibition house was built near Karlsplatz. It was designed by Joseph Maria Olbrich, the exhibition building soon became known simply as "the Secession" (die Sezession). Their work was also published in a magazin called "Ver sacrum".

1903 Josef Hoffmann and Koloman Moser founded the Wiener Werkstätten, a union of artists who wanted to reform  the applied arts (arts and crafts). 1905 Klimt and other artists left the group due to different opinions about art.

[[Ken Olsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2011 deaths, Businesspeople from Connecticut, American engineers, Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni, People from Bridgeport, Connecticut

Kenneth Harry Olsen (February 20, 1926 —  February 6, 2011) was an American engineer and entrepreneur. He started Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) in 1957 with  Harlan Anderson.

[[Debbie Wasserman Schultz]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Jewish American politicians, Jewish women politicians, People from Queens, Politicians from New York City, United States representatives from Florida, University of Florida alumni, US Democratic Party politicians

Debbie Wasserman Schultz (born September 27, 1966) is the U.S. Representative for Florida since 2005. She was the Chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, the leader the Democratic Party from 2011 until she resigned in 2016. From 1993 to 2004, she served in the Florida House of Representatives and the Florida Senate.

Her district covers parts of Broward and Miami-Dade counties. Her district includes the cities of Fort Lauderdale and Miami Beach.

[[Curtin University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Australia, 1966 establishments in Oceania, 1960s establishments in Australia

Curtin University (formerly known as Curtin University of Technology) is the largest university in Australia. Its main campus is in Bentley, Western Australia.

[[Midnight]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of a day

The time period "00:00 - 00:01" is midnight. On computer clocks, the day changes to the next day the minute(s) after midnight.

Midnight is the opposite of solar noon, which is when the Sun is highest in the sky.

[[Rottnest Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Australia, Geography of Western Australia

Rottnest Island (also known as Rotto or just Rottnest) is 18 kilometres from the mainland of Western Australia. It is called Wadjemup by the Noongar tribe, which means land across the water. Rottnest is a popular tourist attaction.

[[Southern Professional Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues in the United States, 2004 establishments in North Carolina

The Southern Professional Hockey League (SPHL) is a low-level professional ice hockey league based in Charlotte, North Carolina, with teams located in the southeastern United States.

[[Ligue Nord-Américaine de Hockey]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues in Canada

The Ligue Nord-Américaine de Hockey(North American Hockey League) (LNAH) was founded in 2004 and is a low-level professional league based in the Canadian province of Quebec.

[[Federal Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues in the United States

The Federal Hockey League (FHL) is a professional ice hockey league with teams in the Northeastern United States and Ontario.

[[International Ice Hockey Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey, 1908 establishments in Europe, International organizations, Zürich, Sports organizations

The International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) (French: Ligue Internationale de Hockey sur Glace) is the worldwide governing body for ice hockey and in-line hockey. It is based in Zurich, Switzerland, and has 70 members. It is responsible for the management of international ice hockey tournaments, and maintains the IIHF World Ranking.

Despite its worldwide authority, the IIHF has little control of hockey in North America, where the National Hockey League (NHL) is the highest hockey organization. Its base of power rests in Europe with the respective national governing bodies and leagues. Canada (Hockey Canada) and the United States (USA Hockey) are the only members who have their own rulebooks.

Decisions of the IIHF can be appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne, Switzerland.

The IIHF museum was located within the International Hockey Hall of Fame Museum located in Kingston, Ontario from 1992 to 1997. After terminating the partnership with the International Hockey Hall of Fame, the IIHF signed an agreement with the NHL to house their museum within the Hockey Hall of Fame. In 1998, the IIHF museum relocated to Toronto, Ontario, occupying over 3500 within the Hockey Hall of Fame.

As part of the centennial celebrations of the IIHF's founding, the 2008 IIHF World Championship was held in Canada, the perennial leaders of the sport. This was the first time the championships were hosted in Canada. Russia went on to win the 2008 Championship.

[[Canadian Junior Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues in Canada

The Canadian Junior Hockey League (CJHL), an association of Canadian Junior A ice hockey leagues and teams, formed in November 1993, emerging from the Canada West Association of Junior 'A' Hockey.

[[Alberta Junior Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues in Canada, Sport in Alberta

The Alberta Junior Hockey League (AJHL) is an Alberta-based Junior A hockey league that belongs to the Canadian Junior Hockey League (CJHL).

[[British Columbia Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues in Canada

The British Columbia Hockey League is a Junior "A" ice hockey league from British Columbia under Hockey Canada, a subsection of the Canadian Junior Hockey League.

[[Central Canada Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues in Canada

The Central Canada Hockey League (CCHL) is a Canadian Junior "A" ice hockey league operating in eastern Ontario, Canada.

[[Quebec Junior AAA Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues in Canada

The Ligue de Hockey Junior AAA Quebec or Quebec Junior AAA Hockey League is a Hockey Quebec Junior "AAA" ice hockey league. It is a member of Hockey Canada and the Canadian Junior Hockey League.

[[Czech Extraliga]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey in the Czech Republic, Ice hockey leagues

The Czech Extraliga (Extraliga ledního hokeje, ELH) is the highest-level ice hockey league in the Czech Republic. As of 2009, it is ranked by the IIHF as the third strongest league in Europe.

[[Deutsche Eishockey Liga]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues

The Deutsche Eishockey Liga (German Ice Hockey League, shortname DEL) is a German professional ice hockey league, which currently has the highest number of American and Canadian players outside of North America. 

[[Kontinental Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues, 2008 establishments

The Kontinental Hockey League (KHL) (Континентальная Хоккейная Лига, Kontinental'naya Khokkeynaya Liga) is an international professional ice hockey league in Eurasia founded in 2008.

[[Apple strudel]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts, Austrian food

Apple strudel (Apfelstrudel) is a traditional Austrian dessert. It is also known in most of the countries which formed the Austro-Hungarian Empire.

[[Ostreoida]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

The order Ostreoida includes the oysters and other families of bivalves such as Pectinidae (mostly scallops). 

[[Pectinina]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

Pectinina is a suborder in the Bivalve order Ostreoida. It contains the superfamilies Pectinoidea and Anomioidea.

[[Constantine Samuel Rafinesque]]

CATEGORIES: French botanists, French zoologists, French writers, 1783 births, 1840 deaths, Linguists

Constantine Samuel Rafinesque-Schmaltz (October 22, 1783 – September 18, 1840) was a nineteenth-century polymath. He contributed to botany, zoology, the study of prehistoric earthworks in North America and Mesoamerican ancient linguistics.

Rafinesque was eccentric. People often say he was an "erratic genius". He was an autodidact. He was  successful in many things. He was good as a zoologist, botanist, writer and polyglot. He wrote prolifically on such diverse topics as anthropology, biology, geology, and linguistics. Today, scholars say that he was far ahead of his time in many of these fields.

[[Ostreidae]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

Ostreidae are the true oysters. The family includes most species eaten under the name oyster. Pearl oysters are not true oysters because they belong to a different order, the Pterioida.

Like scallops, true oysters have a central adductor muscle. This causes a scar in the middle of the shell. It is the point of attachment. The shell is often irregular because oysters attach to substrates.

[[Lens (anatomy)]]

CATEGORIES: Eye anatomy

The crystalline lens is a transparent, biconvex  structure in the eye. With the cornea it helps to refract light to be focused on the retina. The lens changes shape. This changes the focal distance of the eye so that it can focus on objects at various distances. This adjustment of the lens is called accommodation. It is similar to the focusing of a photographic camera when it focuses its lenses. The lens is flatter on the inside.

The lens is also called the aquula (Latin, a little stream, dim. of aqua, water) or crystalline lens. In humans, the refractive power of the lens in its natural environment is approximately 18 dioptres. This is about one-third of the eye's total power.

[[Pecten (bivalve)]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

Pecten is a genus of large scallops or saltwater clams, marine bivalve mollusks in the family Pectinidae.

This is the type genus of the family. Pecten have lived since the Triassic Era and swim by flopping their shells.

The name "Pecten" is the Latin word for a comb or rake.

Shell petroleum company has used its logo with a shell since 1904.

[[Byssus]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

Byssus is a silky filament by which certain molluscs attach to hard surfaces. It also means a rare fabric. It is also called sea silk, and is its fibre source.

[[Lake Ülemiste]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Europe, Geography of Estonia

Lake Ülemiste (Ülemiste järv) a lake in Estonia. It is the largest of the lakes near Tallinn, the capital city. Tallinn takes its drinking water from this lake. The lake gets its water mostly from the small Kurna stream and the larger Pirita River (through the Vaskjala-Ülemiste canal).

There is a legend about this lake. The legend says that the "Old Man of Lake Ülemiste" (Ülemiste vanake) lives in the lake. When anyone meets him, he always asks: "Is Tallinn ready yet?". If the other person answers "Yes, the city is ready.", then the old man will send the lake waters out to cover the city of Tallinn. In this way, if anyone meets this old man, they should answer: "No, the city is not ready. There is a lot of work to do still." In this way the city can be saved.

[[Sachertorte]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes, Dishes named after people, Austrian food

Sachertorte  (Sacher cake) is a  chocolate cake with a chocolate icing and a apricot jam filling. It is a typical sweet from Vienna. It is named after Franz Sacher, who invented the recipe.

[[Salzburger Nockerl]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian food, Desserts, Egg dishes

Salzburger Nockerl is a sweet dessert from Salzburg, Austria.

The dessert is made of egg yolk, flour, sugar, salt, vanilla, and milk mixed into a thin dough. It is always freshly prepared. It is served warm with powdered sugar on it.  The powdered sugar is said to represent the snow-covered peaks of the Gaisberg, Moenchsberg and Nonnberg.

In the operetta "Saison in Salzburg" (Season in Salzburg) by Fred Raymond, the dessert is praised in a song as "“Suess wie die Liebe und zart wie ein Kuss” (meaning Sweet as love and tender as a kiss in German). A legend says that they were invented by Salome Alt, the concubine of Salzburg′s Archbishop Wolf Dietrich von Raitenau in the early 17th century.

[[Thermochemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Physical chemistry

Thermochemistry is the study of the energy and heat to do with chemical reactions and physical transformations (physical changes). Physical transformations are when a state of matter (a solid or liquid, for example) changes to another state. Examples of transformations include melting (when a solid becomes a liquid) and boiling (when a liquid becomes a gas).

A reaction gives out or takes in energy. A physical transformation also gives out or takes in energy. Thermochemistry looks at these energy changes, particularly on a system's energy exchange with its surroundings. Thermochemistry is useful in predicting reactant and product quantities at all times during a given reaction. Thermochemists do this by using data, including entropy determinations. Thermochemists will tell if a reaction is spontaneous or non-spontaneous, favorable or unfavorable.  

Endothermic reactions take in heat.  Exothermic reactions give out heat.  Thermochemistry combines the concepts of thermodynamics with the idea of energy in the form of chemical bonds. It includes calculations of such quantities as heat capacity, heat of combustion, heat of formation, enthalpy, entropy, free energy, and calories.

[[Kurt Schuschnigg]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1977 deaths, American academics, American political scientists, Austrian people of World War II, Chancellors of Austria, Government ministers of Austria, Holocaust survivors, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Kurt Alois Josef Johann Schuschnigg (1897–1977, until 1919, Edler von Schuschnigg) was the 15th Chancellor of Austria. He was in office between the assassination of his predecessor, Engelbert Dollfuss in 1934, and the annexation of Austria in 1938. The time of Dollfuss' and Schuschnigg's reign is known as Austrofascism today. He survived the war as a prisoner. After the war, he took US citizenship, and became a professor for  state law in the United States. In 1968, he returned to Austria, where he died in 1977. 

Schuschnigg studied law in Freiburg im Breisgau and Innsbruck. The nazi Otto Planetta killed Dollfuss, in 1934, in an event that is known as July putsch today. During the war, the NSDAP saw Planetta as a hero. Schuschnigg became the next Chancellor, and at age 36, is the youngest person to become chanellor to this date. 

Schuschnigg was a conservative and an Austrian nationalist. He also supported the idea of Austria as a catholic nation. During his time in office, he was opposed to the idea of Austria becoming a part of Germany. Adolf Hitler began to make show aggression towards Austria in the later 1930s. Schuschnigg planned a referendum on the issue, and this was strongly opposed by the Nazis. In his last major speech, he gave an emotional appeal to Austrian independence and nationalism, finishing with the line "Red White Red, until we're dead!" (referring to the colors of the Austrian flag). Schuschnigg was forced to step down on 11th March 1938, and to hand power to Dr. Arthur Seyß-Inquart. One day later, Austria was annexed to Germany. 

Schuschnigg was arrested by the Gestapo soon after this. He was sent to the infamous Dachau Concentration Camp, where he spent most of the war. After Dachau was liberated by allied armed forces he moved to the United States. He wrote books on his political career and worked in academia in the US. In 1968 he retired from being a professor and retired to Austria, where he died of natural causes in 1977. 

[[Valeria Kozlova]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Russian singers, Russian composers, Russian actors

Valeria Sergeyevna Kozlova (Вале́рия Серге́евна Козло́ва; born on January 22, 1988) is a Russian singer, composer, songwriter, drummer and actress. She was a member of the music group Ranetki from 2005 until 2008.

She was in a relationship with Ranetki's producer Sergei Milnichenko (b.1966) from 2005 until 2008.

[[Diario Frontera]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 establishments, Newspapers in South America, Mérida (state)

Diario Frontera is a Venezuelan regional newspaper, headquartered in Ejido, in the state of Mérida. Founded in 1978, its slogan is "El diario del occidente del país" (The Daily of the occident of the country).

[[Charles Doolittle Walcott]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 births, 1927 deaths, American paleontologists, American geologists, Scientists from New York

Charles Doolittle Walcott (March 31, 1850 – February 9, 1927) was an American geologist and invertebrate paleontologist. He became known for his discovery in 1909 of well-preserved fossils in the Burgess Shale of British Columbia, Canada.

Walcott became Director of the U.S. Geological Survey 1894–1907, and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1907–1927. He discovered a number of important fossil sites. At the Walcott Quarry, the lowest (earliest) of the Burgess Shale deposits, Walcott collected 65,000 specimens between 1910 and 1924. The site dates to the Middle Cambrian, and is in the Canadian Rockies.

The Walcott-Rust quarry is near Russia, New York. This site has produced some of the best preserved trilobites ever found, including enrolled specimens with soft body parts.

[[Mérida (state)]]

CATEGORIES: 1864 establishments, Mérida (state), Establishments in Venezuela, 19th-century establishments in South America, States of Venezuela

Estado Mérida (esˈtaðo ˈmeɾiða) is one of the 23 states of Venezuela. The state capital is Mérida. Mérida State covers a total surface area of 11,300 km² and, in 2007, had an estimated population of 843,800.

[[Microsoft Agent]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft

Microsoft Agent is the technology created by Microsoft which uses animated characters Text to speech engines, and Speech recognition software to improve interaction with computer users. It comes pre-installed with Windows 2000 through to Windows Vista but not on Windows 7.

[[Gideon Welles]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of the Navy, 1802 births, 1878 deaths, Politicians from Connecticut, American abolitionists, American journalists, American lawyers, American literature, Members of the Cabinet of the United States

Gideon Welles (July 1, 1802 – February 11, 1878) was the United States Secretary of the Navy during the presidencies of Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson.  He served from March 7, 1861 until March 4, 1869. He was from Glastonbury, Connecticut.

[[Keble College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1870 establishments in Europe, 1870s establishments in England

Keble College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford in England. Its main buildings are on Parks Road, opposite the University Museum and the University Parks.  Keble is one of the larger colleges, with 435 undergraduates and 245 graduate students. The head of the college is the Warden (currently Sir Jonathan Phillips) and senior academic members are Fellows.

Keble was founded in 1870, having been built as a monument to John Keble, a leading member of the Oxford Movement. As originally constituted it was for men only and the fellows were mostly bachelors resident in the college. In the period after the second World War the trends were towards scientific courses (the major area devoted to science east of the University Museum influenced this) and eventually co-education for men and women from 1979 onwards.

It remains distinctive for its once-controversial neo-gothic red-brick buildings designed by William Butterfield. During the 20th century the college has been extended several times by new buildings.

[[New York Clipper]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in New York City, 1853 establishments in the United States, 1924 disestablishments in the United States, 1850s establishments in New York (state), 1920s disestablishments in New York (state)

The New York Clipper, also known as The Clipper, was a weekly entertainment newspaper published in New York City from 1853 to 1924. It covered topics such as dance, music, the outdoors, and sports.

[[Baltimore Orioles (19th century)]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball teams, Sports in Baltimore, Maryland, 1882 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Maryland, 1899 disestablishments, 1890s disestablishments in the United States

The Baltimore Orioles were a 19th-century American Association and National League. They formed in 1882 and went defunct 1899. The team, which featured numerous future Hall of Famers, finished in first place three consecutive years (1894–1896) and won the Temple Cup championship in 1896 and 1897.

[[Sayabec]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Quebec, 1894 establishments, 1890s establishments in Canada

Sayabec is a small town called "municipality" in Quebec, Canada. It was established in 1894. 1,877 people live there. Sayabec is in the Matapedia Valley close to the Matapedia Lake.

[[Arrows]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One

This article is about the Formula One racing team. For other uses of the term arrow, see Arrow.

Arrows Grand Prix International was a Formula One team active from 1978 to 2002. The team was also known as Footwork.

[[Bella Thorne]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Actors from Florida, American artists, American child actors, American child singers, American Christians, American dancers, American LGBT rights activists, American movie actors, American pop singers, American television actors, Pansexual people, Disney people, LGBT actors, LGBT Christians, LGBT models, LGBT musicians, LGBT people from Florida, LGBT singers, Living people, Models from Florida, Musicians from Florida, Singers from Florida, American voice actors

Annabella Avery "Bella" Thorne (born October 8, 1997) is an American actress, dancer, singer, and model. She started as a child model and actress who has appeared in more than 20 movies and television series and more than 60 commercials. She is best known for her role as the young dancer CeCe Jones on the Disney Channel series Shake It Up!.

[[François Mitterrand]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1996 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, Deaths from prostate cancer, French lawyers, French mayors, Presidents of France, Princes of Andorra, Socialist Party (France) politicians

François Maurice Adrien Marie Mitterrand (26 October 1916 – 8 January 1996) was a French politician who was the President of the French Republic from 21 May 1981 until 17 May 1995. He was born in Jarnac in the Charente department. He was a member of the Socialist Party. Before being elected president, he had held several positions in the French Cabinet. As President of France, he was also one of the Co-Princes of Andorra. Jacques Chirac was President of France and ex officio Co-Prince of Andorra after him. Mitterrand died of prostate cancer in Paris. He was laid to rest in his birthplace Jarnac.

From 1959 to 1981, Mitterrand was also mayor of Château-Chinon (Ville), a municipality in the Nièvre department.

[[Afonso IV of Portugal]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and Queens of Portugal, 1291 births, 1357 deaths

Afonso IV (ɐˈfõsu; 8 February 1291 – 28 May 1357), called the Brave (o Bravo), was the seventh king of Portugal and the Algarve from 1325 until his death. He was the only son that King Denis of Portugal had with his wife Elizabeth of Aragon. Afonso married Beatrice of Castile (1293–1359) in 1309, daughter of Sancho IV, King of Castile and María de Molina, and had four sons and three daughters by her. He also had another daughter.

[[Burgenland]]

CATEGORIES: Burgenland

The Burgenland (Austro-Bavarian: Burgnlaund, Croatian: Gradišće, Hungarian: Felsőőrvidék, Őrvidék, Lajtabánság) is one of the nine federal states of the Federal Republic of Austria. It is the youngest of the nine states and came to Austria after the First World War in 1921. The name Vierburgenland (Land of Four Castles) was created in 1919. It was derived from the name of the four vármegye of the Kingdom of Hungary (in German Komitate, 'counties') known in Hungarian as Pozsony, Moson, Sopron and Vas, or in German as Pressburg, Wieselburg, Ödenburg and Eisenburg. Because Pressburg was given to Czechoslovakia, the number was dropped. In 1922 the name was adopted by the province assembly.

[[Organometallic chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Organometallic chemistry

Organometallic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds containing bonds between carbon and a metal. It combines aspects of inorganic chemistry (the study of non-carbon bonds) and organic chemistry (the study of carbon bonds).

Examples of organometallic compounds are tetraethyllead; it was used as a fuel (leaded gasoline) additive in the past. Also Methylcobalamin (Vitamin B12) is a common organometallic compound.

[[Coniston Water]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of the United Kingdom, Cumbria, Geography of England

Coniston Water (usually called just Coniston) is a lake in Cumbria. It is the third largest lake in the Lake District. It is 5 long and 0.5 wide. The lake has an elevation of 143 feet (44 m) above sea level. It drains to the sea via the River Crake.

[[Delirium tremens]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms, Addiction

Delirium tremens (often called DTs or "the DTs") is a medical emergency.  It is the worst form of alcohol withdrawal, which can happen when a person who drinks a lot of alcohol suddenly stops drinking. "Delirium" means very bad confusion that comes on quickly; "tremens" means "shaking."

Scientists think the DTs happen because the autonomic nervous system gets too excited.  It works too hard and will not shut off.

DTs were first written about in 1813.

[[Brian Cox (physicist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, English pop musicians, English physicists, Musicians from Lancashire, Officers of the Order of the British Empire

Brian Edward Cox OBE FRS (born 3 March 1968) is a British particle physicist. He is also a professor at the University of Manchester and a Royal Society University Research Fellow. He works on the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). Cox presents some BBC science television programmes the most notable being Stargazing Live and Wonders of Universe. He also presented some episodes of Horizon.

[[How to Win Friends and Influence People]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 books, Non-fiction books

How to Win Friends and Influence People is a self-help book. It was written by Dale Carnegie and first published in 1936. It is one of the best selling self-help books ever published. Since 1936, over 15 million copies have been sold worldwide.

[[Jemma Palmer]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Big Brother contestants, English professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Birmingham

Jemma "Jem" Palmer (born 10 April 1986) is an English model and professional wrestler. She was briefly signed to World Wrestling Entertainment. She is also known by the name Inferno. She used this name in the 2008 British television series Gladiators. In 2011, she became known for taking part in the twelfth series of Big Brother.

[[Damien Sandow]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, People from Worcester, Massachusetts, Sportspeople from Massachusetts, WWE wrestlers

Aaron Steven Haddad (born August 3, 1982) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for his time in the WWE where he competed under the ring name, Damien Sandow.

He won the 2013 Money in the Bank for a World Heavyweight Championship Money in the Bank opportunity but became the first wrestler to outright lose his cash-in title match when he was defeated by John Cena on the October 28 episode of Raw.

[[Ulf von Euler]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1983 deaths, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, Swedish scientists, Biologists

Ulf Svante von Euler (7 February 1905 – 9 March 1983) was a Swedish physiologist and pharmacologist. He won a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1970 for his work on neurotransmitters.

[[The Fighting Temptations]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s musical movies, 2003 drama movies, English-language movies, American musical movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Jonathan Lynn

The Fighting Temptations is a 2003 musical drama movie with Cuba Gooding Jr., and Beyoncé Knowles.

[[Titus O'Neil]]

CATEGORIES: American professional wrestlers, 1977 births, American football players, Sportspeople from Florida, Living people

Thaddeus Bullard (born April 29, 1977 in Boynton Beach, Florida) better known under the ring name Titus O'Neil, is an American professional wrestler and former American football player currently signed to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).

He is one half of the Prime Time Players along with Darren Young. He competed on the second season of NXT where he finished 5th and also competed on the fifth season of NXT called NXT Redemption. He played professional football in the Arena Football League for the Utah Blaze, Tampa Bay Storm, Las Vegas Gladiators and Carolina Cobras.

[[Paul Bearer]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2013 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from blood clot, People from Mobile, Alabama, Sportspeople from Alabama, WWE Hall of Fame

William Alvin "bill" Moody (10 March 1947 - 5 March 2013) better known by his ring name “The Father of Destruction” and “The Fat Man (or Fatman)” Paul Bearer as well as Percival Pringle III, was an American professional wrestling manager and professional wrestler. He was best known for managing both The Undertaker as well as his on-screen brother, Kane in the WWF/WWE.

Moody was born on 10 April 1947 in Mobile, Alabama. He died on 5 March 2013 in Mobile, Alabama from a heart attack. Club board member of Cauliflower Alley Club "Cowboy" Bob Kelly said that during a reunion on 2 March, Moody was having trouble breathing and was also coughing. Moody said that he was going to be treated for respiratory problems and Kelly said that Moody was treated for a blood clot after the reunion.

[[Maury Povich]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1939 births, American television talk show hosts, American game show hosts

Maurice Richard "Maury" Povich (born January 17, 1939) is an American television talk show host.  He hosts the tabloid talk show Maury.

[[Darwinopterus]]

CATEGORIES: Pterosaurs

Darwinopterus (meaning "Darwin's wing") is a genus of pterosaur, discovered in China and named after Charles Darwin. It is the first known pterosaur to display features of both long-tailed (rhamphorhynchoid) and short-tailed (pterodactyloid) pterosaurs. Darwinopterus is a transitional fossil between the two groups. 

Between 30 and 40 fossil specimens have been found, all collected from the Tiaojishan Formation, which dates to the Middle Jurassic, 160 million years ago (mya). The type species, D. modularis, was described in February 2010. 

Two additional species, D. linglongtaensis and D. robustodens, were described from the same fossil beds in December 2010 and June 2011, respectively.

The specimens showed sexual dimorphism: the males had crests on their heads, and narrower hips than the females.

[[Rubén Sierra]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, American League All-Stars, Detroit Tigers players, Chicago White Sox players, Cincinnati Reds players, Living people, Minnesota Twins players, New York Yankees players, Oakland Athletics players, Seattle Mariners players, Sportspeople from Puerto Rico, Texas Rangers players, Toronto Blue Jays players

Rubén Sierra (b. October 6, 1965) is a retired Puerto Rican Major League Baseball player.  Sierra was an outfielder.

[[Matt Clement]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, San Diego Padres players, Florida Marlins players, Chicago Cubs players, Boston Red Sox players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Matthew Paul Clement (born August 12, 1974, in Butler, Pennsylvania) is a former Major League Baseball starting pitcher. Clement played for the San Diego Padres, Florida Marlins, Chicago Cubs and Boston Red Sox. While on the Red Sox active roster, he was injured all of the 2007 season. He batted and threw right-handed.

On April 5, 2009, Clement said he was no longer going to play baseball.

[[Tarkovsky]]

CATEGORIES: Russian-language surnames

Tarkovsky (Тарковский) is a Russian surname. The feminine form is Tarkovskaya (Тарковская). A well-known person with this name was Andrei Tarkovsky, a Soviet movie director. 

[[Marin County, California]]

CATEGORIES: Marin County, California, 1850 establishments in California

Marin County, California is a county in the US state of California. It is north of the San Francisco Bay.

[[Dolce & Gabbana]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in Europe, Italian fashion houses, Milan, 1980s establishments in Italy

Dolce & Gabbana, often called D&G, is an Italian fashion label. They make and sell clothes including shirts and underwear. The company was founded in Milan in 1985 by Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana.

[[Transitional fossil]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Fossils

Transitional fossils (or missing links) are the fossilised remains of lifeforms that show features typical of two distinct groups. It may be a rare fossil, such as Archaeopteryx, which shows early features  of a group which later becomes widespread.

The rarity of transitional forms is interesting. It suggests the new forms are not yet dominant in the ecology of their time, and their populations are relatively small. It follows that their fossils would be scarce. In the Solnhofen limestone where Archaeopteryx was found, there are more examples of pterosaurs of several genera than there are of the proto-bird. In the Jurassic, the pterosaurs were dominant in the air.

But in the Lower Cretaceous the situation is reversed. The pterosaurs are in decline, and large numbers of different bird species are found in the famous Chinese lagerstatten deposits such as the Jehol biota. The Lower Cretaceous birds are clearly more bird-like, and the features they developed enabled them to invade habitat niches which had been the preserve of pterosaurs, or maybe were not previously exploited at all.

[[Jan Vyčítal]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2020 deaths, Czech musicians

Jan Vyčítal (March 8, 1942 in Prague, Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia – March 1, 2020) was a Czech country music singer and songwriter. He was founding member of Greenhorns. 

Vyčítal died on March 1, 2020 at the age of 77.

[[Period 3 element]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table

A period 3 element is an element found on the third period (row) of the periodic table. The row has eight elements sodium, magnesium, aluminium, silicon, phosphorus, sulfur, chlorine, and argon.

Period 3 elements have electrons in the first three electron shells. The first and second electron shells are always full. The third electron shell (valence electrons) fills when atomic number gets bigger. Two electrons join the 3s orbital, and six electrons join the 3p orbitals.

[[Period 2 element]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table

A period 2 element is an element in the second period (row) of the periodic table. Period 2 has eight elements: lithium, beryllium, boron, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine and neon. Their atomic numbers go from 3 to 10.

Period 2 elements have electrons in the first two electron shells. The first electron shell is always full. The second electron shell (valence electrons) fills when atomic number gets bigger. Two electrons join the 2s orbital, and six electrons join the 2p orbitals.

These atoms can become stable in two ways:

[[Mariner 1]]

CATEGORIES: Mariner program

Mariner 1 was a NASA spacecraft. It was the first spacecraft in the Mariner program. Mariner 1 was planned to do a Venus fly-by. However, it was destroyed by the Range Safety Officer 293 seconds after launch. It was destroyed because the rocket moved off course and was a safety risk. Mariner 1 was followed by Mariner 2.

[[Cornish cookery]]

CATEGORIES: Cornwall, Cooking

Cornish cookery denotes the cooking styles, traditions and recipes associated with Cornwall. It has been heavily influenced by the geography of the county as well as its social history.

Being a peninsula, fish dishes form a major part of the historical and modern recipes in Cornwall, with the fishing industry playing a major part in its economy. The iconic dish of Cornwall, the pasty, has its roots in the mining industry. 

Cornwall's cookery has influenced and been influenced by other British cuisine, as well as having similarities with the cuisine of its neighbour, Devon.

Much of Cornwall's farming land is suitable for milk production and one of the by products is clotted cream (cream thickened by cooking). This forms the basis for many local specialities including Cornish fudge and Cornish ice cream and is used in Cornish cream teas. Cornish clotted cream is protected under EU law, and cannot be made anywhere else. 

[[National Gallery]]

National gallery may refer to: 

[[Pedro Rodríguez Ledesma]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Spanish footballers, Santa Cruz de Tenerife

Pedro Eliezer Rodríguez Ledesma, commonly known as Pedro (born 28 July 1987) is a Spanish footballer who plays for AS Roma and the Spanish national team.

[[Sergio Busquets]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Spanish footballers

Sergio Busquets i Burgos (born 16 July 1988) is a Spanish footballer who plays for FC Barcelona and the Spanish national team.

[[Edifício Itália]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers in Brazil, São Paulo, 1965 establishments, 1960s establishments in Brazil

Edifício Itália  is a skyscraper in São Paulo, Brazil. It is 165 meters (550 feet) tall and has 46 floors. It was built in 1965.

[[Start]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

The start is a beginning of an activity or the beginning of a race. It can also mean switching on an engine. 

[[Ito Hirobumi]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 births, 1909 deaths, Anti-Communists, Japanese educators, Japanese politicians, Murder victims, People from Yamaguchi Prefecture

Ito Hirobumi was a Japanese politician and thinker. He served as the 1st, 5th, 7th, 10th Prime Minister of Japan.

Ito was the first Japanese Governor General of Korea 1896–1909. 

[[Complexity class]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

A Complexity class is a concept from theoretical computer science and mathematics: All problems that have the same complexity are in the same complexity class. This means, that for a given input, they need about the same amount of resources, such as compute time, or memory. The most often used models for complexity are time complexity, which measures the time needed to calculate a result, or space complexity, which looks at the amount of memory or storage needed. When talking about complexity classes, a worst case scenario is usually assumed.

[[Saif al-Islam al-Gaddafi]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, People from Tripoli

Saif al-Islam al-Gaddafi (born June 25, 1972) is one of the sons of Muammar al-Gaddafi. Saif studied architecture and political science. He holds a PhD from the London School of Economics. Saif presides the Gaddafi International Foundation of Charitable Associations. In 2011, the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant against Saif. The court said that Saif may have committed crimes against humanity. According to the court, the Gaddafi regime used torture, killed people and raped women to incite the population to support the regime.

After the Libyan civil war, Gaddafi was arrested.  He tried to flee but was caught. He was flown to Zintan and has stayed there.

[[Kim Jong-suk]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 1949 deaths, North Korean politicians

Kim Jong-suk(김정숙, December 24, 1917 – September 22, 1949) was a Korean independence activist, and communist politician. She was the first wife of North Korean President Kim Il-sung, and the mother of Kim Jong-Il, North Korean Great Leader.

[[Pope Pius VI]]

CATEGORIES: 1717 births, 1799 deaths, Italian popes

Pope Pius VI (Pius Sextus; 25 December, 1717 – 29 August 1799), born Giovanni Angelo Braschi, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 251st Pope from 1775 to 1799.

Pope Clement XIII named him treasurer of the Roman Church in 1766.

[[Mariner 2]]

CATEGORIES: Mariner program

Mariner 2 was a NASA spacecraft. It was the second spacecraft in the Mariner program. Mariner 2 was the first successful mission from Earth to another planet.

[[Period 1 element]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table

A period 1 element is an element in the first period (row) of the periodic table. The periodic table is arranged in rows to show repeating properties of the elements. When the atomic number increases, the element have different properties. A new row begins when chemical properties repeat. It means that elements in the same group have similar properties. The first period has less elements than any other periods in the periodic table. There are only two elements in the first period: hydrogen and helium. We can explain why there is less elements in the first row in modern theories of atomic structure. This is because in quantum physics, this period fills up the 1s orbital. Period 1 elements follows the duet rule, they only need two electrons to complete their valence shell. These elements can only hold two electrons, both in the 1s orbital. Therefore, period 1 can have only two elements.

[[Peugeot 5008]]

CATEGORIES: Peugeot automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Peugeot 5008 is a MPV automobile produced by Peugeot since 2009. It is a longer version of the Peugeot 3008 and a MPV version of the Peugeot 308.

[[Fiat Multipla]]

CATEGORIES: Fiat automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Fiat Multipla is a car produced by Fiat between 1998 and 2010. The original model became well known for its styling that divided opinion before it was facelifted in 2004. Fiat discontinued the model in 2010. It is a MPV version of the Fiat Bravo.

[[2011 Virginia earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 earthquakes, 2011 in the United States, 2010s in Virginia, August 2011 events, Earthquakes in the United States

The 2011 Virginia earthquake was a magnitude 5.8 (Mw) earthquake in the U.S. state of Virginia on August 23, 2011, at 1:51 PM EDT (17:51 UTC). The focus was 60 northwest of Richmond and 8 from the town of Mineral, Virginia. The earthquake was along the Spotsylvania Fault, an ancient fault line that now sits in the middle of the North American plate. Four aftershocks happened within twelve hours of the main earthquake. The aftershocks had magnitudes 2.8, 2.2, 4.2 and 3.4. About 35 hours after the main earthquake, a sixth aftershock of  magnitude 4.5 occurred. As of August 30, there have been 19 aftershocks, most of them minor.

There are very few strong earthquakes east of the Rockies in the U.S. This was only the second magnitude 5.8 in the last last 114 years. The other was the 1944 quake on the New York-Ontario border.

[[TSV Hartberg]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Styria

The Turn- und Sportverein Hartberg is a football club from Hartberg, Styria. The club is playing in the First league, the second division in Austrian football. Beside the football section the club has 14 others, like chess, Judo and gymnastics.

[[Candidatus]]

CATEGORIES: Bacteria, Taxonomy

Candidatus  is a term in the taxonomy (scientific classification) of bacteria.

It is a label put before the name of a bacterium which cannot be grown on an agar plate or in any other bacteriology culture. An example would be "Candidatus Phytoplasma allocasuarinae". Candidatus status may be used when a species or genus is well studied but cannot be cultured. Nowadays much information is got by 16S ribosomal RNA sequence analysis.

[[Carsonella ruddii]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria

Candidatus Carsonella ruddii is an endosymbiotic gamma proteobacterium. It has the smallest known genome of any bacterium.

The species is an endosymbiont that is present in all species of phloem sap-feeding insects known as psyllids. The endosymbionts occurs in a specialised structure known as the bacteriome.

In 2006 the genome of one strain of Ca. C. ruddi was sequenced at RIKEN in Japan and the University of Arizona. The genome is a circular chromosome of 159,662 base pairs and has a high coding density (97%) with many overlapping genes and reduced gene length. The number of predicted genes was 182, also the lowest on record (NCBI-Genome). Numerous genes considered essential for life seem to be missing, suggesting that the species may have achieved organelle-like status.

In comparison, Mycoplasma genitalium, which has the smallest genome of any free-living organism, has a genome of 521 genes.

[[French Civil Aviation University]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of the French Civil Aviation University, Alumni of the École nationale de l'aviation civile, 1949 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in France, French Civil Aviation University

The French Civil Aviation University (French: École nationale de l'aviation civile), also known as ENAC, is a French public aeronautical grande école. It was created on 28 August 1949. It has locations in Biscarosse, Carcassonne, Castelnaudary, Château-Arnoux-Saint-Auban, Grenoble, Melun, Montpellier, Muret, Saint-Yan and Toulouse, in France. It is a member of the Conférence des Grandes Écoles, the University of Toulouse, and of the Aerospace Valley. It is one of five founders of France AEROTECH.

ENAC provides training in civil aeronautics. The university has around 25 courses. These include aerospace engineering, Masters, Mastères Spécialisés, and courses for technicians, airline pilots, air traffic controllers, managers and flight instructors (people who teach others to fly planes).

[[Institut Polytechnique des Sciences Avancées]]

CATEGORIES: Alumni of the Institut polytechnique des sciences avancées, Engineering schools, Aerospace engineering, Aviation in France, Technical colleges and universities in France, 1961 establishments in Europe, Institut polytechnique des sciences avancées, Toulouse, 1960s establishments in France, Lyon, Marseille

The Institut polytechnique des sciences avancées, often called IPSA, is a private aeronautical university localized next to Paris, Lyon, Marseille and Toulouse in France, in the Île-de-France and Midi-Pyrénées,

The university is part of IONIS Education Group and has been created in 1961,,.

[[Büsingen am Hochrhein]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Baden-Württemberg, Konstanz (district)

Büsingen am Hochrhein often just known as Busingen, is a German village. It is part of the German state (Bundesland) of Baden-Württemberg. The village belongs to the district (Kreis) of Konstanz. Büsingen has an area of about 7.62. About 1,350 people live there. The village is the only exclave of Germany. It is surrounded by territory that belongs to Switzerland.

A 680-metre wide strip of Swiss land separates the village from the rest of Germany. The village next to Büsingen is the Swiss village Dörflingen.

There are no border controls between Büsingen and Switzerland because Büsingen is in a customs union with this country. The two countries agreed this in 1964 and the treaty became law in 1967. At the same time another even small part of West Germany separated from the rest of the country by land belonging to Switzerland, called Verenahof became part of the Swiss village of Büttenhardt.

Because the village is completely surrounded by Swiss territory, but is politically German, many things exist twice there. Büsingen has for example two postal codes and residents may have phone numbers from two countries. The official currency is the Euro. However, most things like electricity and cable television come from Switzerland and have to be paid in Swiss francs. Büsingen depends heavily on Switzerland in economics.

Büsingen only has one elementary school. Pupils can attend the school there up to the fourth grade. After this, the parents have to decide whether the children should attend a German or a Swiss school.

A Swiss Postbus connects the village to the Swiss city Schaffhausen the Swiss villages Dörflingen, Buch and Ramsen and the German village Randegg.

Most people who live in Büsingen, work in Switzerland and earn their salary in Swiss francs. 

Büsingen has a large proportion of residents who are retired people, many are Swiss, because they pay little or no tax on their pensions. 

About 30% of the resident population of Büsingen hold a Swiss passport.

[[CAE Global Academy Phoenix]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation, Mesa, Arizona, 1995 establishments in the United States

CAE Global Academy Phoenix (formerly Sabena Airline Training Center) is a private flight school (airline pilot training) in Mesa, Arizona, USA. The school is located at Falcon Field airport and has 49 aircraft including 15 Diamond DA20-C1, 10 Diamond DA40, 4 Diamond DA42-L360, 11 Piper Archer, 8 Piper Arrow and one Beechcraft 90. The school has also three flight simulators.

[[Mastère Spécialisé]]

CATEGORIES: Qualifications, 1986 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in France

A Mastère Spécialisé (MS), also called Specialized Master or Advanced Master, is a French degree (created in 1986) that a person gets after completing a Master's degree and then continuing to study in a Grande École in some specific field. These students are considered to possess more advanced knowledge of the field that they study, as compared to those who only get a Master's degree.

The course takes one year to complete, including at least four months of practical internship.

[[Beaumaris Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Wales, 1330 establishments, 14th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in Wales

Beaumaris Castle (beau marais, Literal translation: beautiful marsh) was a castle built in Beaumaris, Anglesey, Wales by King Edward I of England. King Edward built the castle to help him take over North Wales. It was one of several castles built along the North Wales coast.

[[Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines]]

CATEGORIES: Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines University faculty, Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, 1991 establishments in France, Île-de-France

Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines is a French public university created in 1991, in the department of Yvelines and since 2002, in Hauts-de-Seine. It is mainly in the cities of Versailles, Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, Mantes-en-Yvelines and Vélizy-Villacoublay and Rambouillet. It has eight campuses.

It has 19,000 students, 752 staff people and 1389 teachers and researchers. 285 teachers outside of the university come each year to give courses.

The subjects taught are the sciences, the social sciences, the political sciences, engineering, technology and medicine. It also has courses about the relationship between economy, ethics, natural environment and sustainable development.

[[Cuthbert]]

CATEGORIES: Monks, Christian saints

Saint Cuthbert (c. 634 – 20 March 687) was an Anglo-Saxon monk, bishop and hermit associated with the monasteries of Melrose and Lindisfarne in the Kingdom of Northumbria, at that time including, in modern terms, northern England as well as south-eastern Scotland as far north as the Firth of Forth. Afterwards he became one of the most important medieval saints of England, his cult being centred at Durham Cathedral. Cuthbert is regarded as the patron saint of northern England. His feast day is 20 March.

[[Durham Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: 1090s establishments, Anglican Cathedrals, Durham, World Heritage Sites in the United Kingdom

The Cathedral Church of Christ, Blessed Mary the Virgin and St Cuthbert of Durham (usually known as Durham Cathedral) is a cathedral in the city of Durham, England, the seat of the Anglican Bishop of Durham. The Bishopric dates from 995, with the present cathedral being founded in AD 1093. The cathedral is known as one of the finest examples of Norman architecture.  It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

The present cathedral replaces the 10th century "White Church" built as part of a monastic foundation to house the shrine of Saint Cuthbert of Lindisfarne. The treasures of Durham Cathedral include relics of St Cuthbert, the head of St Oswald of Northumbria and the remains of the Venerable Bede. 

Durham Cathedral occupies a strategic position on a promontory high above the River Wear. The cathedral is a major tourist attraction, the central tower of 217 feet (66 m) giving views of Durham and the surrounding area.

There are many famous people who are interred (buried) in the Cathedral and in the surrounding grounds including Bishop Alfred Tucker.

[[Lofoten]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Norway

Lofoten is an archipelago and a traditional district in the county of Nordland, Norway. Though lying within the Arctic Circle, Lofoten has one of the world's largest higher temperature anomalies relative to its high latitude.

Lofoten is well known for its natural beauty within Norway. Lofoten includes the municipalities of Vågan, Vestvågøy, Flakstad, Moskenes, Værøy and Røst. The main islands, running from north to south, are

whilst further to the south are the small and isolated islands of Værøy and Røst. The total land area amounts to 1,227 km², and the population totals 24,500.

Between the mainland and the Lofoten archipelago is the vast, open Vestfjord, and to the north is Vesterålen. The main towns in Lofoten are Leknes in Vestvågøy and Svolvær in Vågan.

The islands have for more than 1,000 years been the centre of great cod fisheries, especially in winter, when the cod migrate south from the Barents Sea and gather in Lofoten to spawn. In the lowland areas, particularly Vestvågøy, agriculture is important and has been so since the Bronze Age.

[[Black hole information paradox]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics, Black holes

The black hole information paradox is a phenomenon in astrophysics. It is when quantum mechanics and general relativity are put together. 

This phenomenon states that the information a physical system has can be lost when it enters a black hole. The object that falls into a black hole, only keeps information about its spin, mass and charge. However, quantum mechanics suggests that information cannot be lost. This makes it a paradox.

It is said that all objects that fall into a blackhole are reset.

[[Sabena Flight Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation, Colleges and universities in Europe, 1953 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Belgium

CAE Global Academy Brussels Sabena Flight Academy is a Belgian flight school created in 1953. It is in Steenokkerzeel (Brussels Airport). The school trains airline pilot and is part of CAE Global Academy.

[[1988 Pacific hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific hurricane seasons, 1988

The 1988 Pacific hurricane season officially started May 15, 1988 in the eastern Pacific, and June 1, 1988 in the central Pacific, and lasted until November 30, 1988. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the northeastern Pacific Ocean.

Despite there being twenty-three tropical cyclones, there were very few notable storms this year. Only four storms came anywhere near to threatening land. Tropical Storm Aletta and Hurricane Kristy both caused minor flooding in Mexico. Elsewhere, Uleki was a central north Pacific hurricane that crossed the dateline and became a typhoon. In addition, Tropical Depression Seventeen-E and Tropical Storm Miriam both entered from the Atlantic Ocean, were they were called Hurricane Debby and Hurricane Joan, respectively.

[[Period 5 element]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table

A period 5 element is an element in the fifth period (row) of the periodic table.  It contains 18 elements, beginning at Rubidium and ending at Xenon.

Period 5 elements have electrons in the first five electron shells. All period 5 elements have one or more electrons in the fifth electron shell (valence electrons). When atomic number increases by one, another electron is added. Two electrons join the 5s orbital, ten electrons join the 4d orbital, and six electrons join the 5p orbitals.

[[Period 6 element]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table

A period 6 element is an element in the sixth period (row) of the periodic table.  It contains 32 elements, beginning at Caesium and ending with Radon. The Lanthanides (also called the rare earth elements) are part of this period. The lanthanides stretch from lanthanum (57) to lutetium (71).

Period 6 elements have electrons in the first six electron shells. All period 6 elements have one or more electrons in the sixth electron shell (valence electrons). When atomic number increases by one, another electron is added. Two electrons join the 6s orbital, 14 electrons join the 4f orbital, ten electrons join the 5d orbital, and six electrons join the 6p orbitals.

[[Period 7 element]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table

A period 7 element is an element in the seventh period (row) of the periodic table.  It contains  32 elements, beginning at francium and ending with oganesson. The Actinides are part of this period. They are all really radioactive. As of 2016, period 7 elements are the last period of elements that have been made.

Period 7 elements have electrons in the first seven electron shells. All period 7 elements have one or more electrons in the seventh electron shell (valence electrons). When atomic number increases by one, another electron is added. Two electrons join the 7s orbital, 14 electrons join the 5f orbital, ten electrons join the 6d orbital, and six electrons join the 7p orbitals.

[[Caroline Wozniacki]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Danish sportspeople, Female tennis players, Odense, World No. 1 tennis players

Caroline Wozniacki (born 11 July 1990) is a Danish professional tennis player. As of January 2018, she is the number 2 ranked female tennis player in the world. She used to be world number one. In her career, she has won one Grand Slam (2018 Australian Open) and 23 singles tournaments on the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) Tour. She also reached the finals of the 2009 and 2014 U.S. Open. She lost to Kim Clijsters and Serena Williams.

Wozniacki was born in Odense to Polish Catholic immigrant parents. She was engaged to golfer Rory McIlroy until 2014.

[[Algeciras]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Andalusia, Municipalities in Andalusia

Algeciras is a city in the south of Spain. Is on the Mediterranean coast, in the Bay of Gibraltar. It is also the most important port in the country.

In 2009, about 116,209 people lived in the city. The municipal area is 86 km². It is approximately 20 km to the north of Africa.

The city has a long history. It was founded by phoenicians. Named Iulia Traducta by the Romans in the First Century.

In 711, Arab from the North of Africa invaded the city and renamed it Al-Yazirat al-Hadra (green island). In 1344 the city was conquered by Alfonso XI of Castile but it was reconquered by moors in 1369, ten years before Algeciras was destroyed.

In 1704 the city was refounded by Gibraltarians refugees.

[[Luke Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people

Luke Mitchell (born 17 April 1985) is an Australian actor from Queensland. Now living in Sydney, he is known for his role as Romeo Smith on the soap opera Home and Away. He is presently dating his co-star Rebecca Breeds who plays Ruby Buckton on Home and Away.

[[Chris Smalling]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Black British sportspeople, English footballers, Manchester United F.C. players, Premier League players, Sportspeople from London

Christopher Lloyd Smalling (born 22 November 1989) is an English footballer who plays for Manchester United.

[[Jonny Evans]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Northern Irish footballers, Sportspeople from Belfast

Jonathan (Jonny) Grant Evans (born 2 January 1988) is a Northern Irish footballer who plays for Leicester City and Northern Ireland.

[[Danny Welbeck]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, English footballers, Arsenal F.C. players, Manchester United F.C. players, Premier League players

Daniel (Danny) Nii Tackie Mensah Welbeck (born 26 November 1990) is an English international footballer who plays for Manchester United. He is of Ghanaian descent. Welbeck debuted for Manchester United in a league match against Sunderland.

[[Rafael Pereira da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Rio de Janeiro

Rafael Pereira da Silva (born 9 July 1990) is a Brazilian footballer who plays for Manchester United.

[[Fábio Pereira da Silva]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Rio de Janeiro

Fábio Pereira da Silva (born 9 July 1990) is a Brazilian footballer who plays for Manchester United.

He's the twin brother of Rafael Pereira da Saliva

[[Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty

An Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) is an area of countryside considered to have significant landscape value in England, Wales or Northern Ireland. Natural England designates them on behalf of the United Kingdom government. The Countryside Council for Wales designates them on behalf of the Welsh Government. The Northern Ireland Environment Agency designates them on behalf of the Northern Ireland Executive.

The chief purpose of the AONB designation is to conserve and enhance the natural beauty of the landscape, with two secondary aims: meeting the need for quiet enjoyment of the countryside and having regard for the interests of those who live and work there. To achieve these aims, AONBs rely on planning controls and practical countryside management.

As they have the same landscape quality, AONBs may be compared to the national parks of England and Wales. AONBs are created under the same legislation as the national parks, the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949. Unlike AONBs, national parks have their own authorities, have special legal powers to prevent unsympathetic development, and are well known to many inhabitants of England, Wales and Northern Ireland. 

There are 35 AONBs in England, four in Wales, one (Wye Valley) that is in both England and Wales and nine in Northern Ireland. The first AONB was awarded in 1956 to the Gower Peninsula, south Wales. The most recently confirmed is the Tamar Valley AONB in 1994. The smallest AONB is the Isles of Scilly (1976), 16, and the largest AONB is the Cotswolds (1966), 2038. The AONBs of England and Wales together cover around 18% of the countryside in the two countries.

[[Chaturanga]]

CATEGORIES: Chess variants

Chaturanga is the earliest known form of chess, 6th century AD.

This precursor of modern chess originated in the northern Indian subcontinent during the Gupta empire. 'Chaturanga' translates as 'the four divisions', meaning infantry, cavalry, elephantry, and chariotry. They were the four divisions of an Indian army at the time, and no doubt the game was thought of as a war-game. At that time the game had no female piece: what we now call the queen was called Mantri, meaning a minister or advisor.

The game eventually spread to the rest of the world after the Muslim conquest of Persia. It was then called Shatranj.

From the beginning until the end of the 15th century the pieces we call bishops and queens had limited movement, and it took longer to get the pieces into action. In modern chess, the original pieces evolved into the modern pawn, knight, bishop, and rook, respectively.p173; p74

[[Shatranj]]

CATEGORIES: Chess variants

Chatrang, or Shatranj, was the name given to the early game of chess when it travelled to Persia and then to the Arab world.

In Sassanid Persia around 600 the name became Chatrang and the rules were developed further, and players started calling Shāh! (Persian for 'King') when threatening the opponent's king, and Shāh māt! (Persian for 'the king is finished') when the king could not escape from attack. These exclamations persisted in chess as it traveled to other lands.

The game was taken up by the Muslim world after the Islamic conquest of Persia, with the pieces largely retaining their Persian names; in Arabic "māt" or "māta" مَاتَ means "died", "is dead". In Arabic, the game became Shatranj. In all other languages, the name of the game is derived either from shatranj or from shah.

One interesting fact is that the Arabs divided their game into the same three stages which we do today: opening, middlegame and endgame.p234

[[Ice cap]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

An  ice cap is a large mass of ice. 

Ice caps cover less than 50 000 km² of land area. Sheets of ice covering more than 50 000 km² are called ice sheets. 

Ice caps are usually in high areas, but they are not limited to them.

[[Carbon–hydrogen bond activation]]

CATEGORIES: Organometallic chemistry

Carbon–hydrogen bond activation or C-H activation is a reaction that breaks a carbon–hydrogen bond.  Most times, the reaction involves organometallic complexes. The reaction path has coordination of a hydrocarbon to the inner-sphere of the metal atom (“M”). The reaction path includes either an intermediate “alkane or arene complex” or as a transition state leading to a "M-C" intermediate. The reaction path makes C-H activation different from other reactions. During the C-H breaking event the hydrocarbyl group remains linked in the inner-sphere and under the influence of the metal atom.

Chemists study C-H activation because for many years chemists believed that C-H bonds were unreactive.  Both theoretical studies as well as experiments now show that C-H bonds can be broken. This is done by a nearby metal atom changing the electron distribution of the C-H bond (coordination).  Much chemical research looks at the design and synthesis of new reagents and catalysts that can affect C-H activation.  The goal of this research is the conversion of cheap and abundant alkanes into valuable functionalized organic compounds.

Historians say that Otto Dimroth discovered the first C-H activation reaction. In 1902, he reported that benzene reacted with mercury(II) acetate (See: organomercury), but some scholars do not view this reaction as being a C-H activation.  Goldman & Goldberg later wrote, C-H activation looks like H-H activation: both can be achieved by electrophilic or oxidative addition. The first true C-H activation reaction was reported by Joseph Chatt in 1965 with insertion of a ruthenium atom ligated to dmpe in the C-H bond of naphthalene. 

[[Egyptian literature]]

CATEGORIES: Egypt, Literature by nationality

Egyptian literature is some of the earliest known literature. The Egyptians were the first culture to develop the book.

[[Phormium tenax]]

CATEGORIES: Medicinal plants, New Zealand

Phormium tenax (harakeke in Māori, New Zealand flax) is an evergreen perennial plant from New Zealand and Norfolk Island. It is an important fibre plant and also a popular garden plant.

The plant grows as a clump of long, straplike leaves up to two meters long. It grows a much taller flowering shoot, with dramatic yellow or red flowers.

The fibre from the plant was used by the Māori of New Zealand to make baskets. It was also used in rope and sail making. after the arrival of Europeans up until at least WWII

In other countries Phormium tenax is an invasive species. On Saint Helena it is taking over the land from the critically endangered species Elaphoglossum dimorphum.

[[Extensive reading]]

CATEGORIES: Learning

Extensive reading is a way of learning a language, especially a second or foreign language, by reading large mount of texts.

[[30 Minutes or Less]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 comedy movies, American action movies, American adventure movies, American criminal comedy movies, Multilingual movies

30 Minutes or Less is a 2011 action-comedy-crime movie that was produced by Stuart Cornfeld, Ben Stiller and Jeremy Kramer and was directed by Ruben Fleischer. 30 Minutes or Less was released on August 12, 2011 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 45% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 51 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Chemical education]]

CATEGORIES: Education by subject, Chemistry

Chemistry education is the study of the teaching and learning of chemistry. Topics in chemistry education include understanding how students learn chemistry and how best to teach chemistry. Researchers in chemistry education try to improve learning results by improving teaching methods and training chemistry teachers. Researchers study many teaching modes, including: classroom lecture, demonstrations, and laboratory activities.

There is a world-wide shortage of chemistry teachers.June 2013 This is because people with science training can get jobs that pay more outside of teaching. It is hard to keep science teachers. More than 45,000 math and science teachers left teaching in the United States just after the 1999–2000 school year.

[[SC Rheindorf Altach]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vorarlberg

The SC Rheindorf Altach is a football club from Altach,Vorarlberg. The club is playing in the Austrian First league, the second division in Austrian football. The official name is Cashpoint Sportclub Rheindorf Altach, due to sponsorship of Austrian sports betting company Cashpoint.

The second team (SC Altach Amateure) is playing in the Regionalliga West (3rd level).

[[Hurricane Irene]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in weather, Hurricanes in the United States, 2011 in the United States, 21st century in Puerto Rico, 2010s in the Bahamas

Hurricane Irene was a 2011 Atlantic hurricane, which reached Category 3 on the Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale, that struck the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, Hispaniola and the Bahamas, resulting in very serious damage. It also struck the East Coast of the United States and Canada. It formed on August 20 and dissolved on August 29. In summer/autumn 2011, the name Irene was retired from future use. It was replaced by Irma for 2017.

[[Jean-François de Galaup, comte de Lapérouse]]

CATEGORIES: 1741 births, 1788 deaths, French people

Jean-François de Galaup, comte de La Pérouse (1741—1788) was a French navigator who explored the Pacific Ocean. He died when his ship was wrecked in the New Hebrides during 1788. He met the English when they arrived in Australia with the First Fleet in January 1788. After a short stay in Botany Bay, he sailed away into the Pacific.

[[Anna Hazare]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Hindus, Indian activists, Nonviolence advocates

Kisan Baburao Hazare known as Anna Hazare (born 15 June 1937) is an Indian social activist. He is known for developing a village called Ralegaon Siddhi in India. He played a large part in the 2011 Indian anti-corruption movement. He has served in the Indian Army. He won the third highest award in India, the Padma Bhushan.

In April 2011, he started an indefinite hunger strike to pressurize the Indian Government to accept his demands on corruption. The Government accepted his demands later, and he ended his fast.

In August 2011, he started another hunger strike. This time, he wanted the Government to pass an Ombudsman bill. He ended the fast after the Parliament of India accepted his demands. This movement got a lot of support from city people across India.

Hazare has been criticized for many things like his strong views on justice, and forced vasectomy to control population.

[[Simone Weil]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1943 deaths, 20th century philosophers, French philosophers, Jewish activists, Jewish philosophers, Jews who converted to Christianity, Nonviolence advocates, Scientists from Paris

Simone Weil (3 February 1909 in Paris, France – 24 August 1943 in Ashford, Kent, England), was a French philosopher, gnostic, Christian mystic, and activist for social justice and soteriology of Jewish descent.

[[BBC Knowledge Magazine]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of the United Kingdom, BBC

BBC Knowledge Magazine was a magazine made by the BBC. It had articles about science, nature and history. The magazine was launched in North America, in 2008. It closed in November 2012. It reprinted articles from BBC Focus Magazine, BBC History Magazine and BBC Wildlife Magazine. It was available in many countries and was edited by different people. A digital version of BBC Knowledge Magazine was available.

The magazine was chosen as one of the top ten magazines of 2008 by Library Journal. 

[[Norman Manley International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in North America, Jamaica

Norman Manley International Airport KIN, formerly Palisadoes Airport, is an airport in Kingston in Jamaica. It is operated by NMIA Airports Limited. It is one of Air Jamaica's hubs, Sangster International Airport being the other. It is also one of Caribbean Airline's hubs, and is the hub for Skylan Airways. It was named in honour of Norman Washington Manley, one of Jamaica's national heroes. More than 130 international flights leave Norman Manley International Airport each week. The airport is on the Palisadoes tombolo in outer Kingston Harbour; it fronts the city on one side and the Caribbean Sea on the other.

[[Song Jin-woo]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1945 deaths, Anti-Communists, South Korean politicians, South Korean journalists

Song Jin-woo (송진우 Hanja 宋鎭禹, May 8 1889-December 30 1945), the Republic of Korean (대한민국; 大韓民國) politician, educationist, journalist, and founder of Korean Democratic party (한국민주당; 韓國民主黨), the Dong-A Ilbo(동아일보; 東亞日報). He is also known by his pen name Goha (고하; 古下).

when 1945, He was assassinated Provisional Government of Republic of Koreas(대한민국 임시정부; 大韓民國임시정부) Guard a terrorist organizations Baekuisa(백의사; 白衣社), aged 56. After he died he was given the Order of Merit for National Foundation(건국훈장; 建國勳章) in 1962.

[[Karl Decker]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2005 deaths, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, Austrian football managers, Austria national football team managers

Karl Decker  (September 5, 1921 - September 27, 2005) was an Austrian footballer and football coach. He played most of his active time for First Vienna FC as midfielder.

[[Mohammed bin Hammam]]

CATEGORIES: Qatari people

Mohammed bin Hammam (Arabic: محمد بن همّام; born 8 May 1949) is a Qatari who used to be a football administrator and the AFC President (1 August 2002 to 14 June 2011).

During the 2022 FIFA World Cup bidding, Mohammed bin Hammam was rumored to have bribed officials, so that Qatar can host.

[[Bisphenol A]]

CATEGORIES: Hormones

Bisphenol A (BPA) is an organic compound which has two phenol functional groups. It is used to make polycarbonate plastic, epoxy resins, and other things.

Scientist discovered in the mid 1930s that people and animals react to BPA in the same way that they react to hormone (oestrogen-like effects.) Some stores stopped selling products made with BPA in 2008 because government reports said BPA was not safe for humans. Many news stories wrote about BPA safety. 

A 2010 report from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said that contact with BPA could hurt fetuses (unborn children), infants and young children. In September 2010, Canada became the first country to say that BPA was a toxic substance. In the European Union and Canada, BPA cannot be used to make baby bottles.

[[Joe Clark]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Canadian diplomats, Roman Catholics, Canadian writers, Politicians from Alberta, Privy Councillors (Canada), Leaders of the Opposition (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada

Charles Joseph "Joe" Clark CAN (born June 5, 1939) is a politician from Canada. He served as Canada's Prime Minister from 1979-1980. He was elected Prime Minister when he was 40 years old, making him the youngest Prime Minister in Canadian history.

[[Norfolk Broads]]

CATEGORIES: Norfolk, Suffolk, Waterways

The Broads are a network of mostly navigable rivers and lakes in the English counties of Norfolk and Suffolk. The Broads, and some nearby land were made into a special protected area (like a national park) by The Norfolk and Suffolk Broads Act of 1988. The Broads Authority has managed the area since 1989.

The total area is 303, mostly in Norfolk, with over 200 of navigable waterways. There are seven rivers and 63 broads, mostly less than 4 deep.  Thirteen broads are generally open to navigation, with a further three having navigable channels.  

Although the terms Norfolk Broads and Suffolk Broads are used to identify specific areas within the two counties respectively, the whole area is frequently referred to as the "Norfolk Broads".  

[[Boko Haram]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 establishments, 21st century in Nigeria, Crime in Nigeria, Islamic State, Rebel militia groups in Africa, Sunni organizations

Boko Haram is a branch of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. The name of the group means "Western" or "non-Islamic" education is a sin. The group is centred in Borno State in northeastern Nigeria. It wants to make Islamic law the only law in Nigeria. It also wants to outlaw education that is not based on Islam. The group sees itself as similar to the Taliban, which are active in Afghanistan. Locally, the group is known as the "Taliban". The official name of the group is Jama'atu Ahlis Sunna Lidda'awati wal-Jihad, which in Arabic means "People Committed to the Propagation of the Prophet's Teachings and Jihad."  They also call themselves 'Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP).

The group was formed in Maiduguri, Borno State, in 2002. Its insurgency began in 2009. They follow an extreme version of Sunni Islam. Local residents of the area soon called the group Boko Haram. Loosely translated from the local Hausa language, this means Western education is forbidden. Residents gave it the name because of its strong opposition to Western education, which it sees as corrupting Muslims.  The term "Boko Haram" comes from the Hausa word 'boko' meaning "Animist, western or otherwise non-Islamic education" and the Arabic word 'haram' figuratively meaning "sin" (literally, "forbidden").

Boko Haram opposes not only Western education, but Western culture and science as well. The group also forbids the wearing of shirts and trousers and the act of voting in elections.  In its view, the Nigerian state is run by non-believers.

In a 2009 BBC interview, Mohammed Yusuf, the group's leader at the time, said he rejects the fact that the earth is a sphere and views it as contrary to Islam, along with Darwinism and the fact that rain comes from water evaporated by the sun.

Boko Haram often carry out bombings, kidnappings and shootings, as well as arson and looting. They have killed thousands of people in Africa, attacking civilian and military targets. There are many terrorist activities for which Boko Haram have claimed responsibility: 

Boko Haram is not associated with the group Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta which fights against the oil industry in the Niger Delta, since 2006.

On 14 April 2014, Boko Haram kidnapped 276 teenagers from a secondary school in Chibok, Borno. Boko Haram killed at least 100 people in Baga, Borno, in January 2015. About 620 buildings were damaged or destroyed by fire.

In the mid-2010s, Boko Haram extended its activities into Cameroon, Chad and Niger. It became part of Islamic State in March 2015.

[[Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta]]

CATEGORIES: History of Nigeria, Nationalist organizations in Africa, National liberation movements, Rebel militia groups in Africa

The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta is one of the largest militant groups in the Niger delta. Many people in the delta are poor. The Nigerian government has contracts that allow international companies to extract crude oil in the delta. This extraction causes massive damage to the environment. According to the magazine The Economist, the organization wants more of the profit of the oil extraction to go to the poor region, where the oil is extracted. 

According to the magazine, the organisation is used by several armed groups; these groups are sometimes paid to launch attacks. The payment is done  either with weapons or with money.

MEND has been linked to attacks on petroleum operations in Nigeria as part of the Conflict in the Niger Delta, engaging in actions including sabotage, theft, property destruction, guerrilla warfare, and kidnapping.

MEND's stated goals are to localize control of Nigeria's oil and to secure reparations from the federal government for pollution caused by the oil industry. In an interview with one of the group's leaders, who used the alias Major-General Godswill Tamuno, the BBC reported that MEND was fighting for "total control" of the Niger Delta's oil wealth, saying local people had not gained from the riches under the ground and the region's creeks and swamps."  

In a January 2006 email, MEND warned the oil industry, "It must be clear that the Nigerian government cannot protect your workers or assets. Leave our land while you can or die in it....  Our aim is to totally destroy the capacity of the Nigerian government to export oil." Additionally MEND has called upon President Olusegun Obasanjo to free two jailed Ijaw leaders — Mujahid Dokubo-Asari, who is jailed and charged with treason, and Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, a former governor of Bayelsa State convicted of corruption. Obasanjo's successor, President Umaru Musa Yar'Adua authorised the release of Dokubo-Asari and Alamieyeseigha in 2007.

[[Urbanization]]

CATEGORIES: Geography

Urbanization (or urbanisation) is a term from geography. The base of the word is the Latin urbs, which means city. The term urbanisation means that lifestyle that is common in a city becomes prevalent. This can happen in two different ways:

Physical urbanization has been observed for centuries. In developing countries this is the main form of urbanization. In developed countries, functional urbanization is the main form of urbanization. With functional urbanization, people living in the city center move to the countryside, next to the city; this is known as suburbanization.

[[Moliniana]]

CATEGORIES: Journals, Botany, Santiago de Chile

Moliniana was a botanical journal issued between 1955 and 1966 in Santiago, Chile. Its contents were botany, phytochemistry and related topics. Gunckel, Looser and Navas were writers.

[[You Suffer]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 songs

"You Suffer" is a song by the British grindcore band Napalm Death. It is from their debut album, Scum. Guinness Book of Records has mentioned the song as the shortest recorded song ever.  It is precisely 1.316 seconds long.

The song was written by band members Nicholas Bullen and Justin Broadrick. This was during the sessions for the From Enslavement to Obliteration demo recording in March 1986. The song is featured on the album Scum, released in 1987.

According to Broadrick, "You Suffer" was meant as a joke. He called it "retarded", "ridiculous" but "hilarious". He added that they played the song "in front of 30 local kids, like, every weekend." for about thirty times.

Nic Bullen said that the short length of the song was inspired by Wehrmacht's 1985 song "E!"

Zak Smith quotes the lyrics to the song, which he describes as the "shortest punk song on the subject of suffering (or any subject)" at the conclusion of his memoir We Did Porn.

[[Frankie Fredericks]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Male athletes, Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Olympic silver medalists, Sport in Namibia, Sprinters, People from Windhoek

Frank ''Frankie'' Fredericks (born 2 October, 1967) is a Namibian runner.  

[[Jagged Little Pill]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums, Alanis Morissette albums

Jagged Little Pill is the third studio album and the first to be released internationally by Canadian singer-songwriter Alanis Morissette. The album saw Morissette changing her style and genre. Morissette's sound in the album was rock, but her previous songs were dance pop. The title is a metaphor for lessons of life that are hard to accept. The album was Morissette's breakthrough album, and contained six hits, "You Oughta Know", "Ironic", "You Learn", "Hand in My Pocket", "Head over Feet", and "All I Really Want". The album spent twelve weeks at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 albums chart. By 2009, the album had sold 33 million units worldwide.  It was ranked by the Billboard 200 as the number one selling album of the 1990s.

During the three consecutive years in the late 1990s of Grammy Awards, Morissette received five wins out of nine nominations from the album. In 1996, she won the Album of the Year & Best Rock Album. Her 1997 nominations such as "Ironic" for Record of the Year & Best Music Video in Short Form did not win her an award. But in 1998, she won again for Best Music Video in Long Form from her release of Jagged Little Pill, Live. In October 2002, Rolling Stone ranked it number 31 on its Women In Rock - The 50 Essential Albums list, and in 2003 the magazine ranked it number 327 on its list of The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. The album also holds a title in The Definitive 200 Albums list, in which it is placed at number 26.

[[Jack Layton]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from cancer of unknown primary origin, Cancer deaths in Ontario, Politicians from Montreal, Politicians from Toronto, Leaders of the Opposition (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Ontario, Privy Councillors (Canada)

John Gilbert "Jack" Layton CAN (July 18, 1950 – August 22, 2011) was a Canadian politician and the Leader of the Official Opposition. He was the leader of the New Democratic Party from 2003 to 2011, and previously sat on Toronto City Council. He was the Member of Parliament for the riding of Toronto—Danforth from 2004 until his death.

He was a son of Progressive Conservative cabinet minister Robert Layton (1925-2002). He was born in Montreal and raised in Hudson, Quebec. He rose to prominence in Toronto municipal politics where he campaigned tirelessly for the needs of ordinary citizens and for environmental issues. Eventually, he became head of the Federation of Canadian Municipalities. In 2003, he was elected leader of the NDP on the first ballot of the convention, and the NDP almost doubled its popular vote in the 2004 election.

Thirty seven NDP MPs were elected under Layton in the 2008 election. In the 2011 federal election, he led the NDP to a historic total of 103 seats and formed the Official Opposition. Although recovering from illness, Layton campaigned tirelessly, and inspired many people. Importantly, the NDP had increased its number of Quebec MPs from one to fifty-nine seats, almost eliminating the previous Bloc Québécois MPs. 

Layton died at his home in Toronto on August 22, 2011, aged 61, after suffering from cancer of unknown primary origin. Layton's body had a lying-in-state before a state funeral was held in Toronto. He was married to fellow MP Olivia Chow.

[[Green politics]]

CATEGORIES: Green politics

Green politics is a kind of politics that has been on the rise since the 1970s. The parties and movements that follow these ideas are usually called green:

Greens have been most successful in Germany.

[[QRpedia]]

CATEGORIES: Free software, Encodings

QRpedia is a web system for mobile devices, like mobile phones. It uses QR codes to show  Wikipedia articles to people. The articles are shown in the user's own language.

[[Gun Hägglund]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2011 deaths, Swedish television presenters, Translators

Karin Gunvor Sjöblom Hägglund (2 March 1932–19 August 2011) was Swedish television star. She is better known as Gun Hägglund. Hägglund is the first female in Sweden who presented news on television. She was the news presenter of Aktuellt in 1958.

Hägglund was born in Örnsköldsvik, Sweden and died in Visby. She was married to the Swedish news editor Karl-Axel Sjöblom. Both hosted and moderated the popular Swedish TV show Halv sju. Her husband died in 1982. Hägglund died in 2011 after a short illness.

Her career started in 1955 when she started working for the Swedish radio. She was a secretary and program announcer. In 1958, she moved to television shows and became the first female in Sweden to present the news. Hägglund presented the national news show Aktuellt. Furthermore, she worked as a translator. She translated movies and TV shows.

For 30 years, until 1997, Hägglund was involved in the Swedish National Association of Promotion of Cycling. First she was Secretary-General and later Executive Chairman. In that position, she published some books about cycling.

[[Conrotatory and disrotatory]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical reactions

These terms describe two classes of an electrocyclic reaction (a type of organic chemical reactions). In a conrotatory mode, the substituents located at the ends of a conjugated double bond system move in the same (clockwise or counterclockwise) direction during ring opening or ring closure.  In a disrotatory mode, they move in opposite directions.

An example is the conversion of trans-cis-trans-2,4,6-octatriene to cis-dimethylcyclohexadiene (top of figure).  The orbital mechanics of the reaction needs a disrotatory mode.  The orbital symmetry of the octatriene's highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) requires for the end pi orbitals to move in opposite directions to form the correct symmetry found in the sigma bond.

Thermal rearrangements of all conjugated systems containing 4n + 2 pi electron are stereospecific. This is based on preservation of orbital symmetry in the highest occupied molecular orbital. Systems containing 4n pi electrons show the opposite conrotatory mode. This is also true for rearrangements of 4n + 2 pi (where n is a whole number) electrons driven by light (photoinduced).  Photoinduced rearrangements of 4n pi electron systems (where the number of electrons is divisible by 4) follow the disrotatory rule.

The Woodward–Hoffmann rules summarize the above different reactions.

The following picture also shows the difference between conrotatory and disrotatory reactions:

[[Catherine Deneuve]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Actors from Paris, French movie actors

Catherine Deneuve (born 22 October 1943) is a French actress. She is the daughter of two well-known actors. She has two sisters; Françoise Dorléac (1942-1967) and Sylvie (born 1946), also both actresses, the former was killed in a car accident. She has a maternal half-sister, Danielle (born 1937).

She began acting on movies as a teenager. Her first major role is in Jacques Demy's 1964 movie Les Parapluies de Cherbourg. She has since then worked with some of the greatest movie directors, notably Roman Polanski's in Repulsion (1965), and Luis Buñuel's in Belle de Jour (1967) and Tristana (1970) and François Truffaut's in Le Dernier Métro (1982). She made a commercial for the perfume Chanel No 5. She is a close friend of fashion designer Yves Saint Laurent.

She married British photographer David Bailey from 1965 to 1972. She has had relationships with movie director Roger Vadim (1928-2000), with whom she had a son, Christian Vadim (born 1963), and Italian actor Marcello Mastroianni (1924-1996), with whom she had a daughter, Chiara Mastroianni (born 1972). Both her children are actors.

[[Samir Bargachi]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Atheists, LGBT people, LGBT rights activists, Moroccan people

Samir Bargachi, (سمير بركاشي , (born 10 September 1987) is a Moroccan LGBT rights activist. He is the founder and leader of Kifkif, the first LGBT organization in Morocco.

Bargachi is an atheist.

[[Odontoceti]]

CATEGORIES: Cetaceans

The Odontoceti is a suborder of the cetaceans. They are the toothed whales.

The Odontoceti includes  all the whales which eat prey larger than plankton. Examples are: sperm whales, beaked whales, dolphins, and others. As the name suggests, the suborder has teeth rather than the baleen of Mysticeti whales. This means they are predators of small to large sized prey. 

The Sperm Whale Physeter, the Killer Whale Orca and the Pilot Whale Globicephala all take large prey. By means of co-operation, Killer Whales can take prey larger than themselves, up to and including Blue Whale calves. Sperm Whales are specialist feeders on giant squid.

There are about 73 species.

[[Allen Telescope Array]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical observatories in California, Telescopes, SETI, 2007 establishments in California, 2011 disestablishments in the United States, 2010s disestablishments in California, 2011 establishments in California, 2012 disestablishments in the United States

The Allen Telescope Array (ATA) was developed by the SETI Institute and the Radio Astronomy Laboratory (RAL) at the University of California, Berkeley to construct a radio interferometer that is dedicated to radio astronomy observations. At the same time, it is also used for the search for extraterrestrial intelligence.

The ATA is at the Hat Creek Radio Observatory, 290 northeast of San Francisco, California. The goal is to have 350 antennas. To start, 42 antennas (ATA-42) were put to work on 11 October 2007. However, a lack of money stopped operations in April 2011. In August 2011, ATA got short-term funding. In 2012 UC Berkeley quit the project.

It is named after Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft. Its old name was the One Hectare Telescope (1hT).

[[Herring gull]]

CATEGORIES: Charadriiformes

The herring gull (Larus argentatus or European herring gull) is a large gull (up to 26 inches or 66 cm long). It is the most abundant and best known of all gulls along the shores of western Europe. It breeds across Northern Europe, Western Europe, Scandinavia and the Baltic states. 

Some herring gulls, especially those resident in colder areas, migrate further south in winter, but many are permanent residents, e.g. in the British Isles, Iceland, or on the North Sea shores. European herring gulls are also abundant around inland garbage dumps, and some have even adapted to life in inland cities.

[[Lesser black-backed gull]]

CATEGORIES: Charadriiformes

The lesser black-backed gull (Larus fuscus) is a large gull that breeds on the Atlantic coasts of Europe. It is migratory, wintering from the British Isles south to West Africa. It is a regular winter visitor to the east coast of North America, probably from the breeding population in Iceland.

This species breeds in colonies on coasts and lakes. It makes a lined nest on the ground or a cliff. Normally, three eggs are laid. In some cities the species nests in towns and cities, often with herring gulls.

They are similar in size but slightly smaller than the herring gull. The taxonomy of the herring gull / lesser black-backed gull group is very complicated. Different authorities recognise between two and eight species. This group has a ring distribution around the northern hemisphere. Differences between adjacent forms in this ring are fairly small, but by the time the circuit is completed, the end members, herring gull and lesser black-backed gull, are clearly different species.

The only species it might be confused with in Europe is the great black-backed gull. Lesser is a smaller bird, with slimmer build, yellow rather than pinkish legs, and smaller white "mirrors" at the wing tips. 

The bill is yellow with a red spot. When the young peck the red spot, The adults feed them by regurgitation. This is an inherited behaviour called a fixed action pattern or releaser. 

[[Arab Indonesians]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Asia, Indonesian people

Arab Indonesians are citizens of Indonesia. Their origin is Arab, and they are mainly from Hadrami. Until 1919, they were part of Dutch East Indies' law. Some people later gained economic power through real estate investment and trading. Currently, most of them can be found in Java and South Sumatra. They are almost all (generally orthodox) Muslims.

[[Christina Aguilera (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Christina Aguilera albums, Debut albums, 1999 albums, Grammy Award-winning albums, Pop albums

Christina Aguilera is the first album by American singer Christina Aguilera, released on August 24, 1999. The success of this album made Aguilera the Best New Artist at Grammy Awards of 2000.

[[Alien hand syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Syndromes

Alien Hand Syndrome (also known as anarchic hand, AHS or Doctor Strangeglove Syndrome) is a condition that seems to cause a person's hand to move on its own. 

[[Christina Aguilera discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies, Christina Aguilera

This is the discography for Christina Aguilera. She has released six studio albums, twenty solo singles, four video albums, and twenty-seven music videos.

[[My Kind of Christmas]]

CATEGORIES: Christina Aguilera albums, 2000 albums

My Kind of Christmas is a Christmas collection by Christina Aguilera, released on October 24, 2000.

[[Stripped]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 albums, Christina Aguilera albums

Stripped is the fourth studio album by American singer Christina Aguilera. The album sold over 13 million copies. Music critics gave it mixed reviews.

It was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 2004 Grammy Awards.

"Dirrty" was released as the album's first single. The video was directed by Dave LaChapelle. It was protested in Thailand.

The album's second single "Beautiful" won a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance in 2004.

The third single, "Fighter", got good reviews from music critics.

"Can't Hold Us Down" had Lil' Kim rapping in it. It was nominated a Grammy Award for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals at the 2004 Grammy Awards.

The album's last single "The Voice Within" was released	October 27, 2003.

[[Back to Basics]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Christina Aguilera albums

Back to Basics is the fifth studio album by Christina Aguilera. Released on August 10 2006.

[[Bionic]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Christina Aguilera albums

Bionic is the sixth studio album by American pop singer Christina Aguilera, released on June 4 2010, the album was produced by new group of producers.

[[Burlesque (soundtrack)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums

Burlesque: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the studio album by Christina Aguilera and Cher. It was recorded for the movie Burlesque.

[[Dorothea Sophie of Neuburg]]

CATEGORIES: 1670 births, 1748 deaths, Dukes and Duchesses of Parma, House of Farnese

Dorothea Sophie of Neuburg (Dorothea Sophie; 5 July 1670 – 15 September 1748) was a Countess Palatine of Neuburg by birth and later the wife of the two sons of Ranuccio II Farnese, Duke of Parma. 

Married to the Hereditary Prince of Parma in 1690, she was the mother of two children including the future Queen Elisabeth of Spain. Her first husband died after just three years of marriage. Remaining in Parma she was engaged to her brother-in-law, the new Duke of Parma. 

Retiring from the court at the death of her last husband, her grandson the future Charles III of Spain conquered Parma after the extinction of the Farnese and Dorothea Sophie acted as regent of the state till his official majority in January 1735. She died aged seventy-eight just weeks before her second grandson Infante Felipe of Spain became the next duke of Parma. 

[[F.C. Blau-Weiß Linz]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Upper Austria, Linz

FC Blau-Weiß Linz is a Austrian football club from Linz, Upper Austria. The team is playing in the Austrian Football First League .

[[Yinghuo-1]]

CATEGORIES: Spacecraft, People's Republic of China, Mars

Yinghuo-1 was a Chinese spacecraft. People planned for it to be China's first interplanetary mission. Yinghuo-1 was supposed to orbit and study the planet Mars. It was launched with the Russian spacecraft Phobos-Grunt. The spacecraft got into space, but something went wrong and it could not escape earth's gravity. 

The name Yinghuo means firefly in Chinese.

[[Aldershot]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Hampshire

Aldershot (ˈ) is a town in the English county of Hampshire, about 60 km (37 miles) southwest of London. The town is administered by Rushmoor Borough Council. The town has a population of 33,840, while the Aldershot Urban Area, a loose conurbation (which also includes other towns, such as Camberley, Farnborough, and Farnham) has a population of 243,344, making it the 30th-largest urban area in the UK

Aldershot is home to professional football team Aldershot Town who compete in the Football Conference. Prior to 1992 the local club was Aldershot, which folded on 25 March 1992, while playing in the Football League Fourth Division

Aldershot is known for its connection with the British Army. This led to rapid growth from a small village to a Victorian town. Today, Aldershot is known as the "Home of the British Army".

[[Cuckoo (Mineral, Virginia)]]

CATEGORIES: National Register of Historic Places, Buildings and structures in Virginia, 1819 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in Virginia

Cuckoo is a Federal style house in the small unincorporated area Cuckoo, Virginia near Mineral, Virginia. The house was built in 1819 for Henry Pendleton. On August 19, 1994, Cuckoo was added to the list of National Register of Historic Places. The house is near the U.S. Route 33, which curves around the house. Cuckoo has Federal details and Colonial Revival elements from the early 20th century. The house is known for its design, prominence and its association with the Pendleton family of doctors. The house was named for the Cuckoo Tavern. The Pendleton family owns the house since its construction.

[[Centers for Disease Control and Prevention]]

CATEGORIES: United States government agencies, United States Department of Health and Human Services

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (or CDC) are a United States federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services.  CDC main office is in Druid Hills, a neighborhood in northeastern Atlanta, Georgia.   It works to protect public health and safety. It provides information to enhance health decisions. It promotes health as a partner with state health departments and other organizations. When an infectious disease or bad food can cause health problems, the CDC will tell the nation how to fight it. The CDC works on environmental health, occupational safety and health, health promotion, injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States.

[[Maria Anna of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: Archdukes and Archduchesses of Austria, Habsburg Dynasty, 1683 births, 1754 deaths, House of Braganza, Regents, Kings and Queens consort of Portugal

Maria Anna of Austria (Maria Anna Josepha; 7 September 1683 – 14 August 1754) was an Archduchess of Austria as she was a daughter of Leopold I, Holy Roman Emperor. She would become Queen consort and regent of Portugal by her marriage to John V of Portugal. She was the Regent of Portugal from 1742 until 1750 during the illness of her spouse.  In Portugal she was commonly known as Mariana. 

[[In the Zone]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, Britney Spears albums

In the Zone is the fourth studio album by Britney Spears, released on November 13, 2003. She wrote or co-wrote some songs of the album: "Me Against the Music", "Showdown", "Early Mornin", "Touch of My Hand", "The Hook Up", "Shadow", "Brave New Girl" and "Everytime".

[[Brooklyn Botanic Garden]]

CATEGORIES: Botanical gardens in the United States, Brooklyn, 1910 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in New York (state)

Brooklyn Botanic Garden (BBG) is a park in the borough of Brooklyn in New York City. The park has many different plants from many parts of the world. It is near the Prospect Heights, Crown Heights, and Park Slope neighborhoods. The area of the garden is 52. It includes several special gardens or plant collections. The Steinhardt Conservatory which has the C.V. Starr Bonsai Museum is also there. The garden was founded in 1910.

[[SKN St. Pölten]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Lower Austria

Sportklub Niederösterreich St. Pölten is a football club from St. Pölten the capital of the Austrian federal state Lower Austria. St. Poelten plays in the Austrian Football First League, the second division in the Austrian football league system.

[[House of Bourbon-Parma]]

CATEGORIES: Bourbons of Parma, Dukes and Duchesses of Parma

The Bourbons of Parma are a royal family who ruled the Duchy of Parma from 1748 till 1860 when Italy was created. The family was founded by the Infante Philip of Spain, third son of Philip V of Spain and Elisabetta Farnese. The Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle (1748) ended the War of the Austrian Succession, and gave the land to Philip.

Philip married Louise Élisabeth of France and the present pretending duke of Parma (Carlos/Carlo of Parma) is a direct descendant. The duchy was taken by the House of Savoy when the state of Italy was created.

[[English poetry]]

CATEGORIES: Poetry, English literature

The history of English poetry stretches from the middle of the 7th century to today. Over this period, English poets have written some of the longest-surviving poems in Western culture. The language and its poetry have spread around the world.

The earliest surviving poetry from the area now called England was probably transmitted orally (or passed from person to person by mouth, without being written down). It was then written down in versions that do not now survive. Because of this, it is difficult to say which poems were the earliest. There is a lot of controversy over this issue.

A number of major national poetries have developed. These include American, Australian, New Zealand, Canadian and Indian poetry. It may be controversial to describe Irish literature as English or British, even though it is in the English language. 

[[Rearrangement reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Rearrangement reactions

A rearrangement reaction are organic reactions where the carbon skeleton of a molecule is rearranged. The result is a structural isomer of the original molecule. Often a substituent moves from one atom to another atom in the same molecule. In the example below, the substituent R moves from carbon atom 1 to carbon atom 2:

Intermolecular rearrangements also take place. 

Sometimes chemists draw diagrams with arrows that show how electrons are transferred between bonds during a rearrangement reaction.  Many organic chemistry text books have such diagrams.  But they do not tell the full story of the reaction mechanism. The actual mechanism of a rearrangement with an alkyl group moving is for the group to slide smoothly along a bond, not ionic bond-breaking and forming. One example of this is the Wagner-Meerwein rearrangement:

In pericyclic reactions, the orbital interactions are important. The reactions can not be explained by a series of simple discrete electron transfers. But, the curved arrows showing a sequence of discrete electron transfers can give the same result as a rearrangement reaction.  Yet, the diagrams are not necessarily realistic. In allylic rearrangement, the reaction is ionic.

Three important rearrangement reactions are 1,2-rearrangements, pericyclic reactions and olefin metathesis.

[[Computational chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Computational chemistry, Theoretical chemistry

Computational chemistry is a branch of chemistry that uses computer science to help solve chemical problems.  These programs calculate the structures and properties of molecules and solids. Computational chemistry normally complements the information obtained by chemical experiments. It can predict chemical phenomena that have not yet been observed. It is widely used in the design of new drugs and materials.

Computational chemistry can predict structure (that is, the expected positions of the molecule's atoms), absolute and relative (interaction) energies, electronic charge distributions, dipoles and higher multipole moments, vibrational frequencies, reactivity or other spectroscopic quantities, and cross sections for collision with other particles.

Computational chemistry looks at both static and dynamic systems. In all cases, as the size of the system being studied grows, the computer time and other resources (such as memory and disk space) used also grows.  That system can be a single molecule, a group of molecules, or a solid.  Computational chemistry methods range from highly accurate to very approximate. Highly accurate methods are typically feasible only for small systems. 

[[Polymer chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Polymer chemistry

Polymer chemistry (also called macromolecular chemistry) is  the science of chemical synthesis and chemical properties of polymers or macromolecules. According to IUPAC recommendations, macromolecules refer to the individual molecular chains and are the domain of chemistry. Polymers describe the bulk properties of polymer materials and belong to the field of polymer physics (a part of physics).

The different kinds of macromolecules include:

Polymers are formed by polymerization of monomers. Chemists describe a polymer by its degree of polymerization, molar mass distribution, tacticity, copolymer distribution, the degree of branching,  by its end-groups,  crosslinks,  and crystallinity. Chemists also study a polymer's thermal properties such as its glass transition temperature and melting temperature. Polymers in solution have special characteristics for solubility, viscosity and gelation.

[[Chemical synthesis]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical synthesis

In chemistry, chemical synthesis means using chemical reactions to get a product, or several products. This happens by physical and chemical manipulations. Often, several different chemical reactions are used; one after another. In modern laboratory usage, a chemical synthesis is reproducible (if the experiment is done a second time, it will have the same results as the first time), reliable (not broken by small changes in conditions), and established to work in multiple laboratories.

Chemists start to design a chemical synthesis by selecting compounds to combine.  These starting chemicals are known as reagents or reactants.  Chemists do various things to these reagents to synthesize the product, or an intermediate product.  This requires mixing the compounds in a reaction vessel.  The vessel can be a chemical reactor or a simple flask.  Many reactions require some form of work-up procedure before the final product is isolated.

The amount of product in a chemical synthesis is the reaction yield. Typically, chemical yields are expressed as a weight in grams or as a percentage of the total theoretical quantity of product that could be produced. A side reaction is an unwanted chemical reaction taking place that reduces the yield of the wanted product.

The chemist Adolph Wilhelm Hermann Kolbe was the first to use the word synthesis in its present-day meaning.

[[Organic synthesis]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical synthesis, Organic chemistry

Organic synthesis is a special part of chemical synthesis. It builds organic compounds using organic reactions.  Organic molecules can have a higher level of complexity compared to inorganic compounds. So, the synthesis of organic compounds has developed into one of the most important parts of organic chemistry.  There are two main areas of research fields within the general area of organic synthesis: total synthesis and methodology.

[[Alexander Morozevich]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Russian chess players, Chess grandmasters

[[Peter Leko]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Hungarian chess players, Chess grandmasters

[[Abilene Ruff Riders]]

CATEGORIES: American football, Abilene, Texas, Sports in Texas

The Abilene Ruff Riders are an American football team. They play their games at the Taylor County Expo Center in Abilene, Texas. Their team colours are red, black and white. The team logo (the picture they have on their shirts) is a cowboy on a horse. They have a team mascot called Rowdy the Ruffrider, who is a cowboy too.

[[Kifkif]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT, Morocco, Non-profit organizations, 2005 establishments, Establishments in Morocco, 2000s establishments in Africa

The Association of Lesbians, Gays, Bisexuals and Transgenders persons in Morocco (KIFKIF) is a Moroccan non-profit organization working on improving the legal and social status of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. It was founded in 2005 in and is the first LGBT advocacy group in North Africa. Kifkif means equal in Arabic.

[[Jerry Koosman]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, New York Mets players, Minnesota Twins players, Chicago White Sox players, Philadelphia Phillies players, National League All-Stars

Jerry Koosman (born December 23, 1942) is a former baseball player with the New York Mets, Minnesota Twins, Chicago White Sox and Philadelphia Phillies.  He was a pitcher.  He won more than 200 games in his career.  In 1969, he was on the Mets team that won the baseball championship the World Series.  Koosman won two games for the Mets in the 1969 World Series.

In 1968, Koosman finished 2nd by one vote to Johnny Bench in the voting for National League Rookie of the Year, given to the best first year player in the league.  In 1976, Koosman finished 2nd to Randy Jones in the voting for National League Cy Young Award, given to the league's best pitcher. Koosman won at least 20 games in both 1976 and 1979.

[[Tom Cleverley]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, English footballers, People from Basingstoke, People from Bradford, Sportspeople from Hampshire, Sportspeople from Yorkshire, Premier League players

Thomas (Tom) William Cleverley (born 12 August 1989) is an English footballer. He was born in Basingstoke, Hampshire and grew up in Bradford, West Yorkshire.

Cleverley plays for Premier League club Everton and the England national team.

[[Johnny Bench]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Cincinnati Reds players, Living people, Major League Baseball broadcasters, National League All-Stars, Sportspeople from Oklahoma City

Johnny Bench (born December 7, 1947) is a former baseball player who played for the Cincinnati Reds.  He mostly played catcher.  He hit 389 home runs.  He was the National League Most Valuable Player in both 1970 and 1972.  He was also the National League Rookie of the Year, or best first year player, in 1968.  He was chosen for the All Star Game 14 times.  

He won the baseball championship, the World Series, with Reds in both 1975 and 1976, and was voted the Most Valuable Player of the World Series in 1976.  He was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1989.

Most analysts think either Bench or Iván Rodríguez is the greatest catcher of all time.

[[Gali Akish]]

CATEGORIES: Tatars

ALI AKISH (January 14, 1918, Hailar, China - July 17, 2011, Ankara, Turkey) is a famous journalist, one of the leaders of the Tatar nationalist movement, the Honorary President of the World League of Tatars.

Ali Aksih was a preeminent leader of the Tatar nationalist movement in diaspora. He was born in the city of Hailar (Manchuria), where he attended a local Tatar elementary school before entering a Russian lycee. After completing the lycee in 1936, he went to study at Al-Azhar University in Cairo (Egypt), and in 1938, along with another young nationalist, Ahat Ginish, went to Poland. Akish and Ginish served as technical assistants to Ayaz Iskhaki at the Idel-Ural National Center, where the newspaper “Yanga Milli Yul" (New National Path) was published. Their work was interrupted by the invasion of Poland by the Nazi and Soviet forces.

Akish lived from 1940 to 1966 in Turkey where he was involved with the diaspora national movement. His pamphlet “Problems of Idel-Ural and Soviet Imperialism” printed in 1963 received great attention and provoked repercussions in the USSR in the form of two books, one ostensibly written by the President of the Tatar ASSR, Salikh Batiyev in 1977. In 1966 Ali Akish joined the Tatar-Bashkir Service of Radio Liberty, Inc. In 1983, he retired from this position and went again to Ankara. Over the years he wrote numerous articles in emigree publications and other forums such as Turk Kulturu, and in 1985 published a 59 page booklet, similar to his first, called "Idel-Ural'da Hurriyet Mucadelesi" (Struggle for Freedom in Idel-Ural).

In 1994, after reading Vladimir Zhirinovsky's book "Last Thrust to the South," he wrote an article for the Turkish newspaper "Milliyet" in which he denounced the Russian nationalists' imperial and anti-Turkish aspirations. The article was highly significant as one of the first published in Turkey critical of Zhirinovsky and his views.

He was able to visit Kazan, the capital of the Republic of Tatarstan in Russia. On his first visit to Kazan he brought, at his own expense, a computer that he donated to the Tatar Public Center. Akish dedicated his whole life to the liberation of the Tatar people from colonial oppression. The World Tatar League named him honorary president in recognition of his achievements. A school was named in his honor in the city of Chally (Naberezhniye Chelny) in Tatarstan. 

[[Yield (chemistry)]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

In chemistry, yield (also called chemical yield or reaction yield) is the amount of product resulting from a chemical reaction. The absolute yield gives the weight in grams, and the molar yield gives the number of moles.

The fractional yield, relative yield, or percentage yield shows how completely a synthetic procedure worked. It is calculated by dividing the amount of product by the theoretical yield (the unit of measurement for both must be the same):

To get the percentage yield, one must multiply the fractional yield by 100% (e.g., 0.673 × 100% = 67.3%).

The ideal percentage yield of a chemical reaction is 100%, but it cannot be achieved because measurements are never completely accurate. Yields around 100% are "quantitative", yields above 90% are "excellent", yields above 80% are "very good", yields above 70% are "good", yields above 50% are "fair", and yields below 40% are "poor".

[[Impulse]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Impulse might mean:

[[Alexis Sánchez]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Chilean footballers, People from Antofagasta Region, 2010 FIFA World Cup players, 2014 FIFA World Cup players, Arsenal F.C. players, Manchester United F.C. players

Alexis Alejandro Sánchez Sánchez (born 19 December 1988), is a Chilean footballer who currently plays for English club Manchester United FC and the Chile national team.

In July 2014, Sanchez signed for Arsenal on a long-term contract for an undisclosed fee, reported to be around £35 million. In January 2018, he joined The Red Devils after Henrikh Mkhitaryan swapped clubs with him to Arsenal FC.

[[Dry cleaning]]

CATEGORIES: Physical chemistry, Hygiene, Knowledge, Skills, Clothing

Dry cleaning (or dry-cleaning) is any cleaning process for clothing and textiles using a chemical solvent (a chemical that can dissolve certain compounds) rather than water. The solvent used is usually tetrachloroethylene (perchloroethylene). The solvent is called "perc" in the industry and "dry-cleaning fluid" by the public. It is often used instead of hand washing delicate fabrics. People use dry cleaning because it takes less work than hand washing.

[[Evolution of cetaceans]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Cetaceans

The Cetaceans (whales, dolphins and porpoises) are mammalian marine descendants of land mammals. Their terrestrial origins are indicated by:

The question of how land animals evolved into ocean-going leviathans was a mystery until recent discoveries in Pakistan revealed several stages in the transition of cetaceans from land to sea.

[[Coal ball]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Geology

A Coal ball is a permineralised life form that is full of calcium, magnesium and occasionally iron sulfide. They generally have a round shape. Coal balls are not made of coal, even though they have the name "coal ball".

In 1855, two English scientists, Joseph Dalton Hooker and Edward William Binney, found coal balls in England. Because of that, the initial research on coal balls was done in Europe. Coal balls were found and identified in North America in 1922. Since then, coal balls have been found in other countries and several theories on their formation have been proposed.

Marie Stopes and D.M.S. Watson also examined coal ball samples. They agreed that coal balls formed in situ. They also added that interaction with a marine environment was necessary for a coal ball to form.

Coal balls are in coal seams across North America and Eurasia. North American coal balls are in more places than in Europe. The oldest coal balls were found in Germany and former Czechoslovakia.

In 1962, Sergius Mamay and Ellis Yochelson found signs of marine animal remains in North American coal balls.

The quality of the preservation of organic material depends on the speed of the burial process and the degree of compression before undergoing permineralisation. Generally, coal balls resulting from remains that have a quick burial with little decay and pressure have a higher preservation degree. However, plant remains in most coal balls show various signs of decay and collapse.

[[Napster]]

CATEGORIES: File sharing

Napster was a computer program that allowed people to share music over the Internet. It was shut down as the result of a lawsuit by the RIAA. Napster has since reopened with some changes

[[Paul Flory]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1985 deaths, American chemists, Scientists from Illinois, People from Elgin, Illinois, Autobiographers, American Nobel Prize winners

Chemistry

Paul John Flory (June 19, 1910 – September 9, 1985) was an American chemist and Nobel laureate. He worked in the field of polymers, or macromolecules.  He was a leading pioneer in understanding how polymers dissolve in solutions. He won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1974 "for his fundamental achievements, both theoretical and experimental, in the physical chemistry of macromolecules."

[[Alpine butterfly knot]]

CATEGORIES: Knots

The alpine butterfly loop is a knot used to form a loop in the middle of a rope.  Once tied, the loop will not shift up and down the rope. It is good for adding a stationary loop in a continuous piece of rope, without bending the rope.

[[List of knots]]

CATEGORIES: Knots, Lists

This page is a list of knots.

[[Reef knot]]

CATEGORIES: Binding knots, Joining knots

The reef knot (or square knot) is a knot that is often used to tie two ropes together.

[[Sheet bend]]

CATEGORIES: Joining knots

The sheet bend is a knot made to join two ends of rope together.

[[Extinction (astronomy)]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy

Interstellar extinction is when the electromagnetic radiation of an astronomical object is blocked and/or scattered by other astronomical objects and cosmic dust.

Also known as galactic extinction when the object is in the Milky Way.

[[Astronomical object]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical objects

An astronomical object is any natural body that floats in space.  For example, stars, planets, meteoroids, moons, and other space objects.

[[Masala (movie genre)]]

CATEGORIES: Cinema of India, Cinema of Pakistan, Bangladeshi culture

Masala (مصالہ‏; मसाला) is a word used in South East Asia, mainly India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. It is used for  a style of Indian movies where there is a mix of various styles of movies in one movie. For example, a movie can show action, comedy, drama, and romance. This movie style is used very often in South Indian films as it helps make the movies appeal to more viewers. Famous masala directors include S. Shankar, Perarasu and K. S. Ravikumar.

[[Sharaf Khan Bidlisi]]

CATEGORIES: Kurdish people, 1543 births, 1603 deaths, Princes and princesses, Historians

Sharaf Khan Bidlisi (Şerefxan Bedlîsî, 1543 Endash1603), was a Kurdish prince and historian. In 1597 he wrote a book on Kurdish history, Sharafnama.

[[Informal economy]]

CATEGORIES: Labor, Economic markets, Feminism

The informal economy is that part of economy which is not reported in official statistics such as the gross domestic product of a country. The informal economy is not taxed, and includes the black market. In developing countries over 70% of the people work in this form of economy. They are self-employed, because it is difficult to find an employer to hire them. People working in this form of economy have no social benefits or social security, which are usually only given by the state to those who have made tax contributions. 

Usually, most people working in this form of economy are women; they work in the most erratic and corrupt segments of the job market.

Sixty percent of female workers in developing countries are employed by the informal sector. There are two main reasons why this is the case: First, the kind of employment that is available caters mostly to women. Secondly, most women either work from home, because they also have to take care of children, or they work as street vendors; both of these kinds of work are classified in the informal sector. 

What is more, most people at the top positions of the sector are men, and most people in the bottom positions are women.

For example, very few women are employers who hire others and more women are likely to be involved in smaller scale operations. Labor markets, household decisions, and states all propagate this gender inequality. The gender gap in terms of wage is even higher in the informal sector than the formal sector.

[[Two half-hitches]]

CATEGORIES: Hitches

Two half-hitches is a knot that is often used to attach rope to poles or other objects.  It is one of many knots that are called hitches.  When a clove hitch is tied around a rope, it forms the two half-hitches.

[[Clove hitch]]

CATEGORIES: Hitches

A clove hitch is a knot that is tied around an object. It is a kind of hitch knot. When a clove hitch is tied around a rope, it forms a knot called Two half-hitches.

[[The Hunchback of Notre Dame (1996 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 movies, American family movies, American musical movies, Disney animated movies, Disney Renaissance, English-language movies, Fiction set in the past, Movies based on books, Movies composed by Alan Menken, Movies composed by David Newman, Movies set in Paris, The Hunchback of Notre Dame (Disney)

The Hunchback of Notre Dame is a 1996 American animated musical drama movie based on Victor Hugo's novel. It was produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It is the 34th Disney animated movie. It follows the deformed bell-ringer attempting to gain acceptance into society.

The movie stars Tom Hulce, Demi Moore, Tony Jay, Kevin Kline, Paul Kandel, Jason Alexander, Charles Kimbrough, David Ogden Stiers and Mary Wickes in her final movie role. Produced during a period known as the Disney Renaissance, the movie is considered to be one of Disney's darkest animated movie because its narrative explores such mature themes as infanticide, lust, damnation, genocide, and sin, despite the changes made from the original source material in order to ensure a G rating received by the MPAA. The musical score was written by Alan Menken, with songs written by Menken and lyricist Stephen Schwartz, who had previously collaborated on Pocahontas.

The movie was released on June 21, 1996 to largely positive reviews and was a commercial success, grossing over $325 million worldwide and becoming the fifth highest-grossing release of 1996. The movie received Academy Award and Golden Globe Award nominations for Menken's musical score. A darker, more Gothic stage adaptation of the movie, was rewritten and directed by James Lapine and produced by Walt Disney Theatrical in Berlin, Germany, as Der Glöckner von Notre Dame, and ran from 1999 to 2002. A direct-to-video sequel, The Hunchback of Notre Dame II, was released in 2002.

[[Biological engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Engineering

Biological engineering (also known as biotechnological engineering and bioengineering) is any type of engineering that is applied to living things.

[[Audi A8]]

CATEGORIES: Audi automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Audi A8 is the largest car produced by Audi. It replaced the Audi V8 in 1994, and is available with either short or long wheelbase. The range incorporates 6-, 8-, 10- and 12-cylinder petrol engines and 6- and 8-cylinder diesel engines. A more sporty version is the Audi S8.

[[Mariner 3]]

CATEGORIES: Mariner program

Mariner 3 was a NASA spacecraft. It was the third spacecraft in the Mariner program. It was designed to take photos of the planet Mars after an eight month journey studying interplanetary (between planet) space. However, the spacecraft lost power eight hours after launch, and it never achieved the correct Mars trajectory. It eventually entered a heliocentric (Sun-centred) orbit.

[[Selenography]]

CATEGORIES: Moon

Selenography is the study of the physical features of the Moon.

[[Sorption]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

When two chemical substances come in contact with each other, through what is called a phase, they will interact with each other in that phase. They may also have an  interface. If a substance accumulates within a phase this is called absorption, if the same process happens on the interface, it is called adsorption. In the year 1909, James William McBain introduced the word Sorption to describe such a process, in the case where it is not easy or meaningful to make a difference between absorption and adsorption. 

Examples of where the concept of sorption is important are measuring the pollution of the environment; using sorption it is possible to bind pollutants to small particles in the air (called aerosols), or in the soil (where they bind to colloids). Sorption makes these bindings possible. In much the same way, polluants can be transported over long distances. 

Machines and processes that use sorption include the absorption refrigerator and solar air conditioning.

[[Dreaming of You (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1995 songs

"Dreaming of You" is a song by Mexican-American Tejano pop singer Selena. It was released as the second single from the album of the same name (1995).

[[Selenology]]

CATEGORIES: Moon

Selenology is the science of the Moon. It is a branch of astronomy.

[[Fobos-Grunt]]

CATEGORIES: Spacecraft, Mars, 2011 in Russia, 2012 in Russia

Fobos-Grunt (also spelled Phobos-Grunt, also called Phobos Sample Return Mission) was an unmanned Russian spacecraft. It was an attempted sample return mission to Phobos, a moon of the planet Mars. Scientists intended Phobos-Grunt to orbit and study Mars. It was meant to look at Mars' atmosphere and dust storms, plasma and radiation. Then, Phobos-Grunt should have landed on Phobos and returned a 200 g soil sample to Earth.

The spacecraft was the first Russian interplanetary mission since Mars 96. It was launched on 8 November 2011 (UTC), aboard a Zenit rocket, at Baikonur Cosmodrome. It was sent with the Chinese spacecraft Yinghuo-1 and  with the Living Interplanetary Flight Experiment.

The name Phobos-Grunt (Фобос-Грунт) is Russian for Phobos-Soil.

[[Wade Belak]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2011 deaths, American Hockey League players, Calgary Flames players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Colorado Avalanche players, Florida Panthers players, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Nashville Predators players, People from Saskatoon, Saskatoon Blades players, Sportspeople who committed suicide, Suicides in Canada, Toronto Maple Leafs players

Wade Belak (July 3, 1976 – August 31, 2011) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player that played a career total of 18 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He was drafted by the Quebec Nordiques with the 12th overall pick in the 1994 NHL Entry Draft. Belak retired from the NHL on March 8, 2011 and remained with the Predators in an organizational role. On August 31, 2011, He was found dead in his condo at the One King Street West hotel in Toronto. His death was later treated as a suicide by Toronto police. Before his death he was preparing to take part in the upcoming season of Battle of the Blades.

[[Skate (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: Sports video games, 2007 video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games

Skate (marketed as skate.) is a skateboarding video game that was published by Electronic Arts. It is available for the PlayStation 3 and the Xbox 360 systems. The game is also featured as a mobile phone game which can be downloaded. The game is the first in the Skate video game series. It was followed by Skate 2 in 2009 and Skate 3 in 2010. 

[[Skate 2]]

CATEGORIES: Sports video games, 2009 video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games

Skate 2 is a skateboarding video game that was published by Electronic Arts. It is available for the PlayStation 3 and the Xbox 360 systems. The game was the second in the Skate video game series. It was followed by Skate 3 which was released in 2010. The game got very good reviews with a 7.5 out of 10 from GameSpot and a 83 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Skate 3]]

CATEGORIES: Sports video games, 2010 video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games

Skate 3 is a skateboarding video game that was published by Electronic Arts. It is available for the PlayStation 3 and the Xbox 360 video game systems. The game was the third in the Skate video game series. The game takes place in the city of Port Carverton. The city also embraces skateboarding which was unlike the second game where they had a "skateboarding is a crime" mentality. The game got good reviews with a 7.5 out of 10 from GameSpot and a 80 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Materials science]]

CATEGORIES: Materials science

Materials science studies the properties of matter to solve science and engineering problems. It uses applied physics and chemistry. Supersmall nanotechnology has got attention in recent years. There are many inventions of new material. Work on why structures fail or break down is very important to engineering.

[[Catwalk]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements, Fashion

A catwalk is a raised walkway. The term is most often used for fashion shows, where models walk along showing off the clothes. A catwalk on a ship is a passageway above decks. A similar term is runway, but it need not be off the ground.

[[About a Girl (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Nirvana songs, 1989 songs

"About a Girl" by the grunge band Nirvana is the third song on Nirvana's first album Bleach. It was one of Kurt Cobain's less heavy songs of the ones he wrote for the band. Compared to "Blew" and "Downer" it is considered quite mild.

[[The Rescuers]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 comedy movies, 1977 drama movies, American animated movies, American buddy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American family movies, American musical movies, Disney animated movies, Movies based on books, Movies about animals

The Rescuers is a 1977 American animated comedy-drama adventure movie. It was produced by Walt Disney Productions. It was first released to movie theaters on June 22, 1977, by Buena Vista Distribution. It is the 23rd Disney animated movie. The movie is about the Rescue Aid Society, an international mouse organization in New York City and shadowing the United Nations. They are dedicated to helping abduction victims around the world at large. Two of these mice, shy janitor Bernard (Bob Newhart) and his co-agent, the elegant Miss Bianca (Eva Gabor), set out to rescue Penny (Michelle Stacy), an orphan girl who is being held prisoner in Devil's Bayou by treasure huntress Madame Medusa (Geraldine Page).

The movie is based on a series of books by Margery Sharp, mainly The Rescuers and Miss Bianca. The movie was very successful. Later Disney released a sequel called The Rescuers Down Under in 1990. This made this movie the first Disney animated movie to have a sequel.

[[Logan Medal of the Arts]]

CATEGORIES: Art awards

The Logan Medal of the Arts was an arts prize started in 1907. Art Institute of Chicago helped to award the prize.  From 1917 through 1940, 270 awards were given.  

The Medal was named for arts patron Frank Granger Logan. Logan founded the brokerage house of Logan & Bryan. He served over 50 years on the board of the Institute.  He and his wife, Josephine Hancock Logan, administered the award consistent with their support of the Society for Sanity in Art. They founded that Society in 1936. Josephine Logan also wrote a book in 1937 called Sanity in Art.  The Logans strongly opposed all forms of modern art, including cubism, surrealism, and abstract expressionism.

[[Thames Barrier]]

CATEGORIES: River Thames, Civil engineering, Buildings and structures in England, Flood control

The Thames Barrier is the world's second-largest movable flood barrier, after the Oosterscheldekering in the Netherlands. It is downstream of central London. Its purpose is to prevent London from being flooded by exceptionally high tides and storm surges moving up from the North Sea. It is raised (closed) only during high tide; at ebb tide it is lowered to release the water which backs up behind it.

The barrier's northern bank is in the London Borough of Newham and its southern bank is in the London Borough of Greenwich. The report of Hermann Bondi into the North Sea flood of 1953 affecting parts of the Thames Estuary and parts of London was what led to the building of the barrier.

[[Environmental chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry, Chemistry, Environmental chemistry, Water pollution

Environmental chemistry is the scientific study of the chemical and biochemical phenomena that occur in natural places. Environmental chemistry can be defined as the study of the sources, reactions, transport, effects, and fates of chemical species in the air, soil, and water environments; and the effect of human activity on these. Environmental chemistry is an interdisciplinary science that includes atmospheric, aquatic and soil chemistry, as well as uses analytical chemistry. It is related to environmental and other areas of science. It is different from green chemistry, which tries to reduce potential pollution at its source.

Environmental chemistry starts by understanding how the uncontaminated environment works. It identifies the chemicals that are present naturally. It studies the concentration and effects of those chemicals. Then, it accurately study the effects humans have on the environment through the release of chemicals.

Environmental chemists draw on a range of concepts from chemistry and various environmental sciences to assist in their study of what is happening to a chemical in the environment. Important general concepts from chemistry include understanding chemical reactions and equations, solutions, units, sampling, and analytical techniques. Chemists study compounds with biological activity such as pheromones.

[[Foster the People]]

CATEGORIES: American pop music groups, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California

Foster the People is an American indie pop band from Los Angeles, California. Foster the People have four members: Mark Foster, Isom Innis, Mark Pontius, and Sean Cimino. Their best known song is "Pumped Up Kicks" which was released on September 14, 2010 and reached #1 on Billboard's Alternative Songs chart, #3 on the Rock Songs tally and #3 on the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Joseph-Louis Lagrange]]

CATEGORIES: 1736 births, 1813 deaths, Alumni of the École Polytechnique, French mathematicians, Italian mathematicians, People from Turin, Theoretical physicists

Joseph-Louis Lagrange (born Giuseppe Lodovico Luigi Lagrangia, Turin, Piedmont, 25 January 1736 – Paris, 10 April 1813) was a mathematician and astronomer. According to one authority, he was "the greatest mathematician of the eighteenth century".

He lived part of his life in Prussia and part in France. He made significant contributions to mathematical analysis, from number theory, to classical and celestial mechanics. 

On the recommendation of Euler and d'Alembert, in 1766 Lagrange succeeded Euler as the director of mathematics at the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin. He stayed there for over twenty years, producing a large body of work and winning several prizes of the French Academy of Sciences. 

Lagrange's treatise on analytical mechanics, first published in 1788, was the best treatment of classical mechanics since Newton, and helped the development of mathematical physics in the nineteenth century.

[[Homeless World Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Homelessness, Football competitions, Football in Austria, Graz, 2003 establishments

The Homeless World Cup is an football competition for homeless people all over the world. Starting in 2003 in Graz, Austria, the competition brings together homeless people with the aim to end homelessness.

[[I Know What You Did Last Summer]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 horror movies, 1997 thriller movies, 1990s horror thriller movies, 1990s mystery movies, 1990s serial killer movies, 1990s teen horror movies, American horror thriller movies, American mystery movies, American serial killer movies, American teen horror movies, Columbia Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies about revenge, Movies based on books, Movies set in North Carolina, Slasher movies

I Know What You Did Last Summer is a 1997 American teen slasher movie. The movie is based on the novel of the same name by Lois Duncan. The movie was directed by Jim Gillespie. It stars Jennifer Love Hewitt, Freddie Prinze, Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Matthew Lillard, Neve Campbell and Ryan Phillippe. The writer is Kevin Williamson (the writer of Scream). It was followed by two sequels: I Still Know What You Did Last Summer and I'll Always Know What You Did Last Summer.

[[Amu Darya]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Afghanistan

The Amu Darya (آمودریا, Āmūdaryā; جيحون, Jihôn or Jayhoun; גּוֹזָן, Gozan ), also called Oxus and Amu River, is a major river in Central Asia. It is formed by the junction of the Vakhsh and Panj. In ancient times, the river was regarded as the boundary between Iran and Turan.

[[Founding Fathers of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Founding Fathers of the United States

The Founding Fathers refers to certain men who lived during the American Revolutionary War era.  These men signed the Declaration of Independence, either helped write the Constitution of the United States, or helped win the American Revolutionary War.  Many of these men were members of the Continental Congress at some point.  The term was first applied to these people in 1916.

There were many people who were Founding Fathers.  Some scholars like to limit them to a small number, such as seven: George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, and James Madison.

Most of the Founding Fathers were large landowners or rich merchants.  The majority owned slaves.  After the Constitution, many of the Founding Fathers became leaders in the federal government.

[[CNDO/2]]

CATEGORIES: Semiempirical quantum chemistry methods

CNDO is the short cut for Complete Neglect of Differential Overlap. It is both 1) a method for learning key facts about molecular orbitals as well as 2) the name of a particular set of computer programs. CNDO is based on quantum chemistry. It is one of the first semi-empirical quantum chemistry methods. It uses two approximations:

CNDO builds a mathematical model of a molecule. CNDO starts with the position of the positively charged nuclei of the atoms and the negatively charged electron clouds surrounding them.  Quantum chemistry tells the model the probability distribution of electron locations based on atomic orbitals.  From this information, CNDO computes data about the resulting molecular orbitals.

CNDO/2 is the main version of CNDO. John Pople and coworkers first wrote CNDO/2.

[[Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers]]

CATEGORIES: Argentina, Music industry

Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers (CAPIF) is a group that represents the music industry in Argentina.

[[AMPROFON]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican music, Music industry

Asociación Mexicana de Productores de Fonogramas y Videogramas (AMPROFON) is a group that represents the music industry in Mexico.

[[Signature song]]

CATEGORIES: Songs

A signature song is a song that is best known for a music artist because of its popularity among their fans. Signature songs can be songs that helped boost an artist's fan base, popularity, fame, and bookings. 

[[Selena (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s biographical movies, 1997 drama movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Jennifer Lopez, Movies set in Texas, Movies based on real life events, Selena, Spanish-language movies

Selena is an epic biographical drama movie. It was released on March 21, 1997, by Warner Bros. Gregory Nava was the director and the screenwriter. The movie is about the singer Selena. She was murdered at age 23 by her friend, an ex-employee of her clothing stores. The movie also describes how Selena started in the music business and her family's problems. Jennifer Lopez starred as Selena, and many music critics believe this movie made Lopez famous. Selena was produced by Abraham Quintanilla, Jr. (Selena's father), Moctesuma Esparza and Robert Katz.

Lopez was given $1 million for her role as Selena, making her the highest-paid Hispanic woman ever, at the time. The movie soundtrack contained two unreleased songs, two tribute songs and two melodies. It reached number seven on the US Billboard 200 chart. It was certified platinum for shipments of one million copies in the United States.bagamash

Nava had a budget of $20 million to make this movie. They filmed the movie in Corpus Christi, San Antonio and Houston, Texas. Over 35,000 fans participated in the Houston Astrodome scene. The movie made $15,599,598 on its first week, the number one movie for that week. In total, it made $35,281,794 in 101 days. Selena had mostly good reviews from critics, though many thought the movie did not tell the true story of Selena. The movie won several ALMA Awards and Imagen Foundation Awards. It was nominated for a Golden Globe Award, MTV Movie Awards and a Young Artist Award.

[[Selena ¡VIVE!]]

CATEGORIES: Selena

Selena ¡VIVE! was a tribute concert that was held on April 7, 2005. It was held a week after the 10th anniversary of Selena's death. Over 65,000 fans attended the concert, which featured high-profile artists.

Selena ¡VIVE! is the highest-rated and most-viewed Spanish-language show in American television history. The show, which lasted over three hours, scored a 35.9 Nielsen household rating.

[[You and I]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Lady Gaga songs

"You and I" is a song by American pop singer Lady Gaga from her third album Born This Way. it was released as the fourth single from the album on August 23, 2011.  Gaga wrote the song herself and produced it with R.J. "Mutt" Lange, who is known for his 14-year marriage to Canadian country pop singer Shania Twain and was Twain's writing partner and producer.

The song reached the top ten in the US and Canada.  The Recording Industry Association of America certified the song triple-Platinum on February 29, 2016, for sales and shipments of three million copies across the United States.

[[Kalam]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Islamic theology

Kalām (علم الكلام, literally "speech" or "words") is the Islamic discipline of seeking theological knowledge through dialectic (debate and argument). It also promotes prudence and logical reasoning. A practitioner of kalām is called a mutakallim (plural mutakallimiin).

[[Ohio Senate]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Ohio, State upper houses in the United States

The Ohio State Senate is the upper house of the Ohio General Assembly. There are 33 State Senators. The state legislature meets in the Ohio Statehouse in Columbus, Ohio.  The President of the Senate presides over the body when in session. He is currently Matt Huffman. The Senate is currently controlled by the Republican Party.

Senators serve four year terms. The terms of the Senators are staggered so that about half the membership is elected every two years. The Senators representing the even-numbered districts are elected in years evenly divisible by four. The Senators from the odd-numbered districts are elected in even-numbered years not divisible by four. Senators are limited to two terms.

Each Senator represents approximately 330,000 Ohioans. Each Senate District covers three Ohio House districts.

[[Snare drum]]

CATEGORIES: Drums

The snare drum or side drum is a percussion instrument. It has strands of snares made of curled metal wire, metal cable, plastic cable, or gut cords. They are stretched across the skin on the bottom of the drum. Pipe and tabor and some military snare drums can have a second set of snares on the bottom side of the top head. This is used to make a "brighter" sound. The snare drum is considered one of the most important drums of the drum kit.

The snare drum can make some special sounds:

[[Economic boom]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Economic boom is a phase when the economy has a huge increase. It is a natural cycle.

The United States of America had an essential supply of natural resources such as timber, iron, coal, minerals, oil and land. Immigrants provided a plentiful and cheap work force to utilise these resources. This enabled America to become a huge economic power at the beginning of the 20th century. These resources were an important foundation for the economy.

Whilst European economies suffered during the First World War, the USA experienced significant growth. US banks loaned money to Europe and businesses sold much needed goods. The war also provided a stimulus for inventions in production, materials and advertising. Immediately after the war there was a small slump but from 1922 the USA experienced an unprecedented economic boom.

Electricity developed slowly before the war but during the 1920s the electricity industry experienced a huge boom. By 1929 the majority of houses in America had electricity and 70 per cent of them used it for lighting purposes. As a result of the development of factories to produce consumer goods for the American people, the demand for electricity doubled. Electrical power was introduced in factories to drive machinery, and thus it became possible to introduce mass production to a number of factories, eg refrigerators, washing machines, vacuum cleaners and radio sets.

The car industry is the best example of mass production during the period. Henry Ford was a pioneer with his idea of producing affordable cars for the people of America. He set about realising his dream by producing his early cars in small workshops. He had groups of men working for him and gradually the cars were built.

Henry Ford and his son posing in the model F Ford car in 1905.

Henry Ford and his son posing in the model F Ford car in 1905

Henry Ford's hard work bore fruit. As he produced more and more cars, he could reduce his prices. By 1925 the price of a car was around $290, which was much cheaper than the price of $850 in 1908. Henry Ford was of the opinion that it was better to sell more cars for a small profit, as that meant employing more workers.

By 1929 Americans owned 23 million cars. The workers earned good wages ($5 per day), thousands of jobs were created, roads were built, petrol stations were built, as were hotels and restaurants. Therefore the entire economy was given a substantial boost due to the car industry.

In order to help American people to purchase the new goods that were available, systems of hire-purchase and credit were introduced. This meant that a person could buy something by paying for it on a monthly basis. As a result, the majority of Americans could afford expensive goods. In order to encourage Americans to take advantage of the scheme, advertisements were placed on roadsides, on the radio, in newspapers and in cinemas.

During the same period, chain stores appeared for the first time, eg J P Penney. Catalogue shopping also became fashionable as it was a convenient way of buying goods.

[[Tremors (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 comedy movies, 1990 horror movies, 1990 science fiction movies, 1990s science fiction horror movies, American comedy movies, American science fiction horror movies, Comedy horror movies, English-language movies, Monster movies, Movies set in Nevada, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by Ron Underwood

Tremors is an American science fiction comedy horror movie. It is set in Nevada and is directed by Ron Underwood. The screenplay was written by S.S. Wilson and Brent Maddock.

[[Tremor]]

CATEGORIES: Medical signs, Muscular system

In biology, a tremor is when antagonist muscles move repeatedly without being controlled. There are different forms of tremors. Very often, a tremor is a symptom for another condition, and not its cause. People with a tremor are not necessarily sick. For example, physiological tremors are measurable, but not visible; they occur in all humans.

[[Grignard reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Organometallic chemistry, Chemical reactions

The Grignard reaction (pronounced /ɡriɲar/) is an organometallic chemical reaction in which alkyl- or aryl-magnesium halides (Grignard reagents) attack electrophilic carbon atoms that are present within polar bonds (for example, in a carbonyl group as in the example shown below). Grignard reagents act as nucleophiles. The Grignard reaction produces a carbon–carbon bond. It alters hybridization about the reaction center.  The Grignard reaction is an important tool in the formation of carbon–carbon bonds. It also can form carbon–phosphorus, carbon–tin, carbon–silicon, carbon–boron and other carbon–heteroatom bonds.

It is a nucleophilic organometallic addition reaction. The high pKa value of the alkyl component (pKa = ~45) makes the reaction irreversible. Grignard reactions are not ionic. The Grignard reagent exists as an organometallic cluster (in ether).

The disadvantage of Grignard reagents is that they readily react with protic solvents (such as water), or with functional groups with acidic protons, such as alcohols and amines. Atmospheric humidity can alter the yield of making a Grignard reagent from magnesium turnings and an alkyl halide. One of many methods used to exclude water from the reaction atmosphere is to flame-dry the reaction vessel to evaporate all moisture, which is then sealed to prevent moisture from returning. Chemists then use ultrasound to activate the surface of the magnesium so that it consumes any water present.  This can allow Grignard reagents to form with less sensitivity to water being present.

Another disadvantage of Grignard reagents is that they do not readily form carbon–carbon bonds by reacting with alkyl halides by an SN2 mechanism.

François Auguste Victor Grignard discovered Grignard reactions and reagents. They are named after this French chemist  (University of Nancy, France) who was awarded the 1912 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this work.

[[Peach (disambiguation)]]

Peach can mean:

[[Giant Magellan Telescope]]

CATEGORIES: Telescopes, Chile

The Giant Magellan Telescope (GMT) will be the world's largest telescope when it is completed in 2025. Instead of one large mirror, the GMT will have seven separate mirrors working together. This will mean its collecting area is bigger than the actual mirror surfaces. It will be made of seven 8.4 diameter mirror parts. It will have a the resolving power of a 24.5 mirror. Its collecting area will be the same as a 21.4 mirror. The telescope will have over four times the ability to gather light than existing telescopes. It will produce images up to ten times clearer than the Hubble Space Telescope. It will cost $700 million.

[[Stinging nettle]]

CATEGORIES: Urticaceae

Stinging nettles (Urtica dioica) are a type of plant which have stinging defensive hairs on the leaves and stems. Stinging nettles can be found in America, Europe and Asia. 

[[Ferrari F50]]

CATEGORIES: Ferrari

The Ferrari F50 is a sports car made by Ferrari in 1995. It was created to celebrate the company's 50th anniversary. The car has two doors. It is a two-seated convertible with a removable hardtop. It has a 4.7 L V12 engine that was based on the 3.5 L V12 used in the 1992 Ferrari F92A Formula One car.

Only 349 Ferrari F50's were made. This was because Ferrari wanted it to be rare. The last F50 was produced in Maranello, Italy in July 1997.

The Ferrari F50 can travel at over 200 miles per hour.

[[Mass spectrum]]

CATEGORIES: Spectroscopy, Mass spectrometry

Note parent peak corresponding to molecular mass M = 92

(C7H8+) and highest peak at M-1 = 91 (C7H7+, quasi-stable tropylium cation).]]

A mass spectrum is an intensity versus m/z (mass-to-charge ratio) plot that represents a chemical analysis. The mass spectrum of a sample is a pattern representing the distribution of ions by mass (more correctly: mass-to-charge ratio) in a sample. It is a histogram usually made using an instrument called a mass spectrometer. Not all mass spectra of a given substance are the same. It can depend on the operating conditions of the instrument. For example, some mass spectrometers break the analyte molecules into many pieces; others observe the intact molecular masses with little fragmentation. A mass spectrum can represent many different types of information based on the type of mass spectrometer and the specific experiment; however, all plots of intensity vs. mass-to-charge are called "mass spectra".

Common fragmentation processes for organic molecules are the McLafferty rearrangement and alpha cleavage.

In the past, chemists with PhD degrees were needed to interpret mass spectra. Today, computer programs read the data and identify the compounds in a sample.

[[Stuntman (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: Racing video games, 2002 video games, Game Boy Advance games, PlayStation 2 games

Stuntman is a racing/action video game that was published by Infogrames and Atari. It was released for the PlayStation 2 and the Game Boy Advance systems. The game is also featured as a mobile phone game which could be downloaded. Stuntman was followed by the 2007 sequel, Stuntman: Ignition. The game received positive reviews, GameSpot gave it a 8.0 out of 10 and IGN gave it a 8.6 out of 10.

[[God's Invitation]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

[[Eh, Eh (Nothing Else I Can Say)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 songs, Lady Gaga songs, Pop songs

"Eh, Eh (Nothing Else I Can Say)" is a single by Lady Gaga.  It appeared on Gaga's debut album The Fame and was released as a single on January 10, 2009.cn  Its music video references Gaga's Italian heritage.  Though the single did not chart in the United States, the Recording Industry Association of America certified the song gold on February 29, 2016, for shipments and streams equal to 500,000 copies there.cn  "Eh, Eh" charted in the top ten in France, New Zealand and Sweden.cn

[[SN2 reaction]]

The SN2 reaction (also known as bimolecular nucleophilic substitution) is a substitution reaction in organic chemistry. It is a type of nucleophilic substitution, where a lone pair from a nucleophile attacks an electron deficient electrophilic center and bonds to it. This expels another group called a "leaving group". So, the incoming group replaces the leaving group in one step. Since two reacting species are involved in the slow, rate-determining step of the reaction, this leads to the name ''bimolecular nucleophilic substitution, or SN2. Among inorganic chemists, the SN2 reaction is often known as the interchange mechanism''.

[[SN1 reaction]]

The SN1 reaction is a substitution reaction in organic chemistry. "SN" stands for nucleophilic substitution and the "1" represents the fact that the rate-determining step involves only one molecule (unimolecular). The reaction involves a carbocation intermediate. Some common SN1 reactions are of secondary or tertiary alkyl halides under strongly basic conditions or, under strongly acidic conditions, with secondary or tertiary alcohols.  With primary alkyl halides, the alternative SN2 reaction occurs.  Among inorganic chemists, the SN1 reaction is often known as the dissociative mechanism. Christopher Ingold et al. first proposed the reaction mechanism in 1940.

[[SC Austria Lustenau]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian football clubs, Football clubs of Vorarlberg

SC Austria Lustenau is a football club from Lustenau, Vorarlberg. The club is playing in the Erste Liga, the second division in Austria.

[[Kazunori Yamauchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Japanese video game designers, Japanese racecar drivers, People from Chiba Prefecture

Kazunori Yamauchi is a Japanese game designer, professional racing driver, and most notably, CEO of Polyphony Digital and producer of the Gran Turismo series.

[[Cradle of Humankind]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of South Africa, Evolution, World Heritage Sites in Africa, Archaeological sites in Africa, History of South Africa, Prehistoric Africa

The Cradle of Humankind is a World Heritage Site. It was first named by UNESCO in 1999. The site is about 50 kilometres northwest of Johannesburg, South Africa in the Gauteng province, and occupies 47000. 

The site's limestone caves, including the Sterkfontein Caves, were where fossils were found. A 2.3-million year-old fossil Australopithecus africanus (nicknamed 'Mrs. Ples') was found in 1947 by Robert Broom and John T. Robinson. The find followed the 1924 discovery of the juvenile Australopithecus africanus skull, 'Taung Child', by Raymond Dart, at Taung in the North West Province of South Africa, where excavations still continue.

The name Cradle of Humankind reflects the fact that the site has produced a large number, as well as some of the oldest, hominid fossils ever found, some dating back as far as 3.5 million years ago. Sterkfontein alone has produced more than a third of early hominid fossils ever found.

[[Lokomotiv Yaroslavl plane crash]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 disasters, 2011 in Russia, Aviation disasters in the 2010s

[[Lokomotiv Yaroslavl]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Russia, Ice hockey teams in Russia

Lokomotiv Yaroslavl (Локомотив Яросла́вль) is a Russian professional ice hockey team playing in the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL).

[[Overhand knot]]

CATEGORIES: Knots

The overhand knot is the simplest knot that can be created.  It is often used as a stopper knot at the end of a rope.

[[Knot theory]]

CATEGORIES: Knots

Knot theory is the study of knots in mathematics.  In knot theory, the ends of the rope are attached so that there is no possible way for the knot to be untied.  Peter Guthrie Tait was the first person to make charts describing mathematical knots in the 1860s.

[[Fabergé egg]]

CATEGORIES: History of Russia, House of Holstein-Gottorp-Romanov, Jewelry

A Fabergé egg is one of the jewelled eggs made by Peter Carl Fabergé and his company between 1885 and 1917.

The most famous are those made for the Russian Tsars Alexander III and Nicholas II. They were Easter gifts for their wives and mothers, and are called the 'Imperial' Fabergé eggs. The House of Fabergé made about 52 imperial eggs, of which 46 have survived. Two more were planned for Easter 1918, but were not delivered, due to the Russian Revolution.

[[Primary care doctor]]

CATEGORIES: Health care

A primary care doctor (PCD) or primary care physician (PCP) is a doctor who provides general medical care. These doctors can answer health concerns and medical conditions a patient may have. They also can prescribe medicine for their patients, based on information gathered.

[[Anthology (Selena album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 albums, Selena albums, Greatest hits albums

Anthology was a greatest hits album by Selena. The album included remixed songs from Selena's early music career. Two EPs were released as a promotion. The album sold over 1,200,000 copies.

[[All My Hits/Todos Mis Exitos]]

CATEGORIES: Selena albums, 1999 albums

All My Hits/Todos Mis Exitos was a greatest hits album by Selena. The album included a collectable rose-pin for fans. The album sold over 1,200,000 copies in the United States.

[[All My Hits Vol. 2]]

CATEGORIES: Selena albums, 2000 albums

All My Hits/Todos Mis Exitos Vol. 2 was the second series of the All My Hits collection. It was a greatest hits album by Selena. The album included a heart-necklace for fans. The album sold over 400,000 copies in the United States.

[[Ones (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Selena albums, 2002 albums

Ones is a greatest hits album by Selena. The album included an unreleased ballad song. The album sold over 500,000 copies in the United States.

[[Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front]]

CATEGORIES: Kashmir, Nationalist organizations in Asia, National liberation movements

JKLF seeks independence of Jammu and Kashmir state from both India and Pakistan.

The JKLF claims that they are not Islamist, but are nationalist, and opposes  the emergence of the territories into either Pakistan or India but rather wants the region of Kashmir to separate from the three countries and become independent.

In 1982 branches were established in Pakistan-administered Kashmir, Pakistan and in 1987 in Indian-administered Kashmir (Jammu and Kashmir).

[[Mirador de la Flor]]

CATEGORIES: Selena, Statues, Texas

Mirador de la Flor ("Overlook of the Flower") is a life-sized statue that is in Corpus Christi, Texas. The statue is a memorial to American singer Selena. The statue was ordered by the Mayor of Corpus Christi as a tourist attraction in 1997. Hundreds of fans visit the statue weekly from all over the world. The statue faces Corpus Christi bay, where the gun that killed Selena was thrown. A second life-sized statue of Selena was made in Mexico in March 2011.

[[Marie Joséphine of Savoy]]

CATEGORIES: 1753 births, 1810 deaths, House of Bourbon, House of Savoy, Princes and Princesses of Savoy

Marie Joséphine of Savoy (Maria Giuseppina Luigia; 2 September 1753 – 13 November 1810) was the wife of the future Louis XVIII of France. She was a princess of Savoy by birth, became the titular Queen consort, and was known by her title: Her Royal Highness, Countess of Provence (comtesse de Provence).

[[Islam in Palestine]]

CATEGORIES: Palestinian culture, Islam by country

Islam is the religion of the majority of the Palestinian population residing in the Palestinian territories, with Muslims comprising 75% of the population of the West Bank, and 99% of the population of the Gaza Strip.

Jerusalem is Islam's third holiest city after Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia. The Haram al Sharif (Temple Mount) of Jerusalem is believed by Muslims to be the location from which Muhammad ascended to Jannah (paradise); there is no mention of Jerusalem in the Koran, however.

This widely accepted Islamic belief raises the religious and spiritual importance to them of the Dome of the Rock and the adjacent al-Aqsa Mosque. Muslims are sensitive to and mindful of the circumstance that two mosques along with the rest of East Jerusalem are claimed and illegally occupied by the state of Israel.

[[Specific impulse]]

CATEGORIES: Spaceflight, Mechanics

Specific impulse (often shortened to Isp) is a way to describe how well a rocket performs. It is also used to describe how well a jet engine performs. It can be used to compare rockets of different sizes. It is a way to know how much force a given engine makes for each bit of fuel. To do this, one needs to know how much fuel is in the engine. A high specific impulse means that a rocket needs less fuel to perform as well. If the specific impulse is lower, it means that the rocket needs more fuel to perform as well. 

Specific impulse is a useful value to compare rocket or jet engines. It is used much like miles per gallon or litres per 100 kilometres is used to compare cars.  An engine with a higher specific impulse uses fuel better. This means that the same amount of fuel lets the rocket go faster after all fuel is depleted.

A rocket engine with a higher specific impulse doesn't mean it's 'more powerful'. That is, it will not make the rocket accelerate harder. In fact, the designs for engines with the highest specific impulse, like ion engines, are the 'weakest' of all types of engines. They accelerate the rocket slowly but steadily over a long period of time using only a tiny amount of fuel. In a race between two rockets with the same amount of fuel and two different engines the one with the more powerful engine will take an early lead, but when it burns down all its fuel, the rocket with higher specific impulse will still have some fuel left and will continue to accelerate. Eventually it will overtake its counterpart and will win the race if the distance is big enough for it to use its long-term advantage.

[[Aromatic hydrocarbon]]

CATEGORIES: Hydrocarbons

An aromatic hydrocarbon, or arene, is a hydrocarbon ring compound. It has alternating double and single bonds between carbon atoms forming rings. Many of the compounds have a sweet scent, hence the term 'aromatic'. The ring of six carbon atoms in aromatic compounds is known as a benzene ring, after the simplest possible hydrocarbon ring, benzene. Aromatic hydrocarbons can be monocyclic (MAH) or polycyclic (PAH).

Some non-benzene-based compounds called heteroarenes, which follow Hückel's rule, are also aromatic compounds. In these compounds, at least one carbon atom is replaced by one of oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur.

[[Erich Probst]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1988 deaths, Austrian footballers, Austrian football managers, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Erich Probst (5 December 1927 – 16 March 1988) was an Austrian footballer.He played as striker for different teams in Vienna and also abroad.

[[Mac Miller]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, 2018 deaths, American hip hop musicians, American jazz singers, American rap musicians from Pennsylvania, American record producers, American television personalities, Businesspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Drug-related deaths, Jewish American musicians, Jewish businesspeople, Singers from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Warner Bros. Records artists

Malcolm James McCormick (January 19, 1992 – September 7, 2018), known professionally as Mac Miller, was an American rapper, singer, songwriter, and record producer. He was also a noted under the pseudonym Larry Fisherman.

In early 2010, Miller signed a record deal with Pittsburgh-based indie record label Rostrum Records. He subsequently began recording his debut studio album Blue Slide Park, and released it on November 8, 2011. The album went on to debut at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart, making it the first independently distributed debut album to top the chart since Tha Dogg Pound's 1995 album, Dogg Food.

In early 2013, Miller launched REMember Music, his own record label imprint, named after a friend who died. Miller's second album, Watching Movies with the Sound Off, was released on June 18, 2013. In January 2014, Miller announced he was no longer signed to Rostrum Records. In October 2014, it was reported Miller signed a record deal for him and his label REMember, with Warner Bros. Records.

Miller died of an accidental drug overdose on September 7, 2018 at the age of 26. The cause of death was because Miller had mixed Fentanyl with Cocaine.

[[Crossfade (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American hard rock bands, American heavy metal bands, Post-grunge bands, Columbia, South Carolina, Musical groups established in 1999, 1999 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in South Carolina

Crossfade is an American rock band from Columbia, South Carolina. Crossfade has three members in the band; the current band members are Ed Sloan, Les Hall, and Mitch James. Their best known song is "Cold" which was released on May 25, 2004 and reached #2 on Billboard's Alternative Songs chart and #3 on the Billboard Mainstream Rock Tracks.

[[Yabasic]]

CATEGORIES: Computer programming, Programming languages

Yabasic (Yet Another BASIC) is an interpreter program for a version of BASIC. BASIC is a programming language. BASIC was designed by John George Kemeny and Thomas Kurtz, in 1964. However, Yabasic was born in 1995, 32 years later. Pedro Sá and Thomas Larsen are now developing version 3 of Yabasic. Yasbic is very compact at about 250 kilobytes total length.

[[Shaun Marsh]]

CATEGORIES: Australian cricketers, Sportspeople from Western Australia, 1983 births, Living people

Shaun Edward Marsh (born 9 July, 1983 in Narrogin, Western Australia) is an Australian cricketer. He is nicknamed 'Sos'. He is a left-handed batsman with a first-class batting average of 40.

On 8 September, 2011, Marsh made his Test debut for Australia in the 2nd Test against Sri Lanka at Pallekele in replace of the unavailable Ricky Ponting. Thus far in the Australian innings, Marsh has scored 87* batting with Michael Hussey in a 148 run partnership.

[[Isolobal principle]]

CATEGORIES: Organometallic chemistry

The isolobal principle (also known as isolobal analogy) is way to predict bonding properties of organometallic compounds. In organometallic chemistry, it relates the structure of organic ligands that can bind to inorganic molecular fragments. Roald Hoffmann described molecular fragments as isolobal "if the number, symmetry properties, approximate energy and shape of the frontier orbitals and the number of electrons in them are similar – not identical, but similar." One can predict the bonding and reactivity of a lesser-known pieces from that of a better-known pieces if the two molecular fragments have similar frontier orbitals, the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO). Isolobal compounds are analogs to isoelectronic compounds that share the same number of valence electrons and structure. A graphic representation of isolobal structures, with the isolobal pairs connected through a double-headed arrow with half an orbital below, is found in Figure 1.

For his work on the isolobal analogy, Hoffmann was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1981, which he shared with Kenichi Fukui. In his Nobel Prize lecture, Hoffmann stressed that the isolobal analogy is a useful, yet simple, model. It does fail in certain instances.

[[Alcibiades]]

CATEGORIES: 450s BC births, 404 BC deaths, Ancient Greek military people, Ancient Greek politicians, Generals, People from Athens

Alcibiades, son of Clinias,  c. 450–404 BC), was a prominent Athenian statesman, orator, and general. He was the last famous member of his mother's aristocratic family, which fell from power after the Peloponnesian War. He played a major role later in that conflict as a strategic advisor, military commander, and politician.

During the course of the Peloponnesian War, Alcibiades changed sides on several occasions. In his native Athens in the early 410s BC, he advocated an aggressive foreign policy, and spoke in favor of an invasion of Sicily. He fled to Sparta after his political enemies brought charges of sacrilege against him.

In Sparta, he served as a strategic adviser, proposing or supervising several major campaigns against Athens. In Sparta too, however, Alcibiades soon made powerful enemies and was forced to defect to Persia. There he served as an adviser to the satrap Tissaphernes until his Athenian political allies brought about his recall. He then served as an Athenian general for several years, but his enemies eventually succeeded in exiling him a second time.

The Sicilian Expedition to Magna Graecia was Alcibiades' idea but his enemies prevented him from commanding. His rival Nicias took command, and the expedition failed disastrously. In the years that he served Sparta, Alcibiades played a role in Athens' undoing; the capture of Decelea and the revolts of several critical Athenian subjects occurred either at his suggestion or under his supervision.

Once restored to his native city, however, he played a crucial role in a string of Athenian victories that eventually brought Sparta to seek a peace with Athens. He favored unconventional tactics, frequently winning cities over by treachery or negotiation rather than by siege.p151 Alcibiades' military and political talents frequently proved valuable to whichever state he worked for. His talent for making powerful enemies ensured that he never remained in one place for long. By the end of the war (which he had helped rekindle in the early 410s) his days of political power were a bygone memory.

In his youth Alcibiades had been a pupil of Socrates. This was something which told against Socrates at his trial.

[[Enamorada de Ti]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 songs, Selena songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"Enamorada de Ti" (I'm In Love With You) is a song recorded by American singer Selena. The song was written by Selena's brother who was the producer of her music A.B. Quintanilla III. The song was also written by a Selena y Los Dinos band member Pete Astudillo. It was for her second studio album Ven Conmigo (1990). The song is about a women who has strong emotions for a man. She exclaims that without him, she will have nothing.

The song was not an official single. However, it did peak at number 32 on the Mexican Singles Chart. The song also appealed to a younger crowd. This helped Tejano music to be liked by many young adults. Many LGBT Selena fans had done many cover versions of "Enamorada de Ti", who had been performed the song during many drag shows across America. "Enamorada de Ti" was given positive feedback from music critics. Many of them wrote about how the song was the first freestyle song to be mixed with Tejano. Selena had promoted the song on her Ven Conmigo Tour, which lasted from 1990-1992.

[[Cold cathode]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics

A cold cathode is a cathode (a type of electrode) that is not heated directly by a filament or element, although a cold cathode can heat up during use as a side effect of normal current flow. The term cold cathode is often used to refer to cold cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFLs), which are often used were a long life is needed. Applications for cold cathode lamps include general lighting, backlights for LCD TVs and computer monitors, and artistic lighting such as computer case mods and automotive customization.

[[Freestyle music]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic dance music

Freestyle music or Latin freestyle is a type of electronic dance music. It became popular during the mid and late 1980s. However, this kind of music started falling in fame during the 1990s. Freestyle music continues to be created and played on radio stations that are still of interest to the Latin and Italian communities.

[[Furia Musical]]

CATEGORIES: Music magazines

Furia Musical was a Mexican music magazine. The magazine was published by Editorial Televisa, who also produces TVyNovelas. Furia Musical was published in Mexico and southern United States. Its editors wrote articles about Mexican music, Chicano rock, Tejano music and Norteno. Their awards show, Premios Furia Musical, was broadcast by Televisa, Galavisión and Univision. The December 2006 issue was the final issue of the magazine.

[[TVyNovelas]]

CATEGORIES: Music magazines

TVyNovelas is a Mexican music and gossip magazine. The magazine is published by Editorial Televisa. The magazine is available in the United States (and Puerto Rico), Mexico, Argentina, Chile and Colombia. TVyNovelas is one of the most-widely read magazine for Spanish-language soap opera fans. Their awards show, Premios TVyNovelas, is broadcast on Televisa and Univision.

[[Fugues (magazine)]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines of Canada, LGBT

Fugues is a French/English gay magazine. The monthly magazine has been published in Montreal, Quebec, Canada since April 1984. The magazine focuses on LGBT culture, nightlife, music, health, fashion, travel and local festivals.

[[Maginot Line]]

CATEGORIES: Fortifications of World War II

The Maginot Line (Ligne Maginot, liɲ maʒino) was a long line of walls, forts, and armed defenses that the French built after the First World War. It is named after André Maginot, who was the French Minister of war when it was built. The Maginot Line was made of a number of fortifications and bunkers, close to the French border to Germany, Belgium,  Luxembourg and Italy. Today, the fortifications towards Italy are commonly called Alpin Line. The Maginot Line was built between 1930 and 1940.

During the First World War, the German Army had built the Hindenburg Line, which is similar. 

The plan was that the French army would have time to get ready and go north to Belgium and win any battle with the German army there. In the Second World War the German army and French army met in the Ardennes (forest) in Belgium. The French army lost, opening the way to German victory in the Battle of France.

[[Alpha cleavage]]

CATEGORIES: Organic reactions, Mass spectrometry

Alpha cleavage, (α-cleavage) in organic chemistry, refers to the act of breaking the carbon-carbon bond, next to the carbon bearing a specified functional group.

[[Diabetic ketoacidosis]]

CATEGORIES: Diabetes mellitus, Diseases

Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) is a medical emergency that can happen in people with diabetes mellitus. DKA happens mostly in people with Type 1 diabetes, although it may happen in some people that have Type 2 diabetes.

DKA happens when a person does not have enough insulin in their body.  All of the cells in the body need glucose (sugar) to survive, because the body needs sugar to make energy.  Insulin breaks down glucose into a form that the body can use for energy.  Without insulin, sugar stays in the blood and cannot get into the cells.  This causes high blood sugar levels and makes it impossible for the cells to use glucose to make energy.

DKA can be caused by not having enough insulin, eating too many carbohydrates, and sometimes physical or mental stress.  DKA can also be a sign that a person has diabetes that has not been discovered, or is not being controlled well.

DKA is diagnosed through blood and urine testing.  These tests will show high blood sugar, which does not happen with other forms of ketoacidosis.

DKA was first discovered around 1886.  Before insulin therapy was first used in the 1920s, DKA almost always caused death.

[[Thornicroft's giraffe]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals of Africa

The Thornicroft's giraffe (giraffa camelopardalis thornicrofti), also known as Thornicroft giraffe or Rhodesian giraffe, is a subspecies of giraffe. Thornicroft giraffes do not have any captive populations. Fewer than 1,500 remain in the wild. Rhodesian giraffes have star or leafy shaped spots that extend to their leg. These girrafes are restricted to eastern Zambia and the Luangwa Valley.The Luangwa national parks were declared game reserves because conservationist wanted to conserve the Thorncroft Giraffe,uniqui to the Luangwa valley of Zambia,Like all giraffes, Rhodesian giraffes share the same ancestors with deer and bovids.

[[Simple aromatic rings]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Simple aromatic rings, also known as simple arenes or simple aromatics, are aromatic organic compounds. They consist only of a conjugated planar ring system with delocalized pi electron clouds. Many simple aromatic rings have trivial names. They are usually found as substructures of more complex molecules ("substituted aromatics"). Typical simple aromatic compounds are benzene, indole, and cyclotetradecaheptaene.

Simple aromatic rings with non-carbon ring atoms are called "heterocyclic". For example, rings can include oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur. Molecules with one ring are called monocyclic as in benzene. Molecules with two rings are called bicyclic as in naphthalene. Molecules with more than two rings are called polycyclic as in anthracene. Simple monocyclic aromatic rings are usually five-membered rings like pyrrole or six-membered rings like pyridine. Fused aromatic rings consist of monocyclic rings that share their connecting bonds.

[[Antiknock agent]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical substances, Fuel

An antiknock agent is added to gasoline. It reduces engine knocking and increase the fuel's octane rating.

Gasoline is a fuel mixture. High compression internal combustion engines place gasoline under great pressure. The pressure can cause the gasoline to ignite early (pre-ignition or detonation) causing a damaging knocking sound, also called "pinging" or "pinking". 

Originally, organic compounds with lead were added to petrol to prevent knocking: tetraethyllead (TEL). This is now banned because the lead affects people's health. Various alternatives have been tried. 2,2,4-trimethylpentane, an isomer of octane, is one example.

[[Fat Lip]]

CATEGORIES: Sum 41 songs, 2001 songs

"Fat Lip" is a 2001 punk rock song by the Canadian pop punk band Sum 41 and is the first single from their debut studio album All Killer, No Filler, which was released in 2001. The song was written by Raine Maida and was produced by both Arnold Lanni and Raine Maida.  Fat Lip has been featured in several movies and video games, such as EA Sports' NHL 2002, American Pie 2, Guitar Hero, GuitarFreaks V4, DrumMania V4 and Guitar Hero 5 (downloadable track) and Smallville. The band has also performed Fat Lip on Saturday Night Live. The music video was ranked as #75 on "MuchMusic's 100 Best Videos".

[[In Too Deep (Sum 41 song)]]

CATEGORIES: Sum 41 songs, 2001 songs

"In Too Deep" is a 2001 pop punk song by the rock band Sum 41 and is the second single from their debut studio album All Killer, No Filler, which was released in 2001. The music video for In Too Deep is a parody of the diving scene from the movie, Back to School.

[[Liberal Animation]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

Liberal Animation is the debut studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX.

It was self-released in 1988 and was later re-released in 1991 under their record label, Epitaph. The producers of the album were Brett Gurewitz and NOFX. The title of the album is a play on the phrase "animal liberation".

[[Moshchena]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ukraine, 1543 establishments, Establishments in Ukraine, 1540s establishments in Europe

Moshchena (Мощена, Moszczana) is a village in Kovel Raion, Volyn Oblast, Ukraine. It has a population of 581 people.

The first mention of the village dates from 1543.

[[Adaptive Combat Rifle]]

CATEGORIES: Assault rifles, 5.56 mm firearms

The Adaptive Combat Rifle (ACR) is a modular assault rifle, designed by Magpul Industries of Erie, Colorado, and known initially as the Masada. In late January 2008, Bushmaster made a licensing agreement with Magpul. In this agreement, Bushmaster would take over the production, development and sales of the ACR.

Bushmaster Firearms, with the help from Remington Arms (a sister company) has made many design changes to the ACR. These were made to meet what the U.S. military requirements. The Remington ACR which is intended for the military market is capable of fully automatic fire. Bushmaster offers a semi-automatic only ACR for the civilian market. Bushmaster says that they will soon have conversion kits which can change the caliber of the rifle.

[[Río Alseseca]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Mexico, Tlaxcala

The Alseseca River is a short river in the interior part of Mexico. It is in the state of Tlaxcala. The Alseseca runs through the city of Puebla de Zaragoza. It is one of the many rivers that come from the dormant volcano La Malinche. The Alseseca river runs south-east until it enters the lake of Valsequillo.

Between 1960 and 1980, several companies set up factories in Puebla. With no protection of the river and the increasing urban growth, many companies and people threw waste into the river, which gradually became a stream of sewage. Today the pollution in the river has decreased considerably, and using it as a "garbage dump" is illegal.

Due to illegal logging in the area, deforestation has caused the river to flood in the rainy season. Since 2000, about 100 families have been affected by the overflowing of the river in villages like Aleseca and Lopez Portillo. In addition to the floods, the existing pollution in the water has caused cases of cholera and salmonella in some of the houses closest to river. Since 1995, the city government has taken action to reduce the flooding of the river. It has built barriers and dikes.

[[North Arlington, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in New Jersey

North Arlington is a borough in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. As of the 2010 United States Census, the borough population was 15,392. As the site of Holy Cross Cemetery, which has interred over 250,000 individuals since its establishment in 1915, North Arlington has over 15 times more dead people than living.

[[Holy Cross Cemetery, North Arlington]]

CATEGORIES: New Jersey, 1915 establishments in the United States, Cemeteries in the United States, 20th-century establishments in New Jersey

Holy Cross Cemetery is a cemetery in North Arlington, New Jersey, United States. Since its establishment in 1915, it has buried over 250,000 people. The cemetery operates under the supervision of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Newark.

[[EMI Latin]]

CATEGORIES: Latin music, Record labels

EMI Televisa Music or EMI Latin and EMI International is a record company that specializes in Latin music. EMI Latin was founded in 1989, and Selena became the first artist to sign. Jose Behar was the former head of EMI Latin.

[[Harry Von der Horst]]

CATEGORIES: 1850s births, 1905 deaths, Sportspeople from Baltimore, Maryland, Baseball executives

Harry Von der Horst (1850 or 1851, Baltimore, Maryland  - 1905) was an American businessman. He was an executive in Major League Baseball and a former owner of the Baltimore Orioles and Brooklyn Superbas. He was one of the principal founders and owners of the old 19th century Baltimore Orioles. He eventually sold the team, but remained as the club secretary until his death in 1905.

[[Center field]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball positions

A center fielder, abbreviated CF, is the outfielder in baseball who plays defense in center field – the baseball fielding position between left field and right field. In the numbering system used to record defensive plays, the center fielder is assigned the number 8.

[[Tom Daly (infielder)]]

CATEGORIES: Cincinnati Reds players, Chicago White Sox players, 1866 births, 1938 deaths, Sportspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Thomas Peter Daly (February 7, 1866, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania - October 29, 1938, in Brooklyn, New York) was a catcher and second baseman who played in the Major Leagues from 1887 to 1903. He played for the Chicago Cubs, Washington Nationals, Brooklyn Dodgers, Chicago White Sox and Cincinnati Reds.

[[LP record]]

CATEGORIES: Audio disc

An LP record (or long-play record) is a type of gramophone record. It is a 33⅓ rpm vinyl disc with little lines called grooves that go around the center. It is generally either 10- or 12-inches in diameter. They are played by a turntable. A turntable spins the record while a lever with a small needle on the bottom. The needle goes in between the little grooves.  When this happens, music is played.

The LP record was introduced by Colombia Records in 1948. It then became the new way the music industry released recordings. In the 1960s, cassettes were introduced. This was a cheaper way to record music and not hear the noise that came from the LP record. However, the LP record continued to be more popular until the 1970s when the compact disc was introduced.

The long-playing record is an analog recording format. The digital recording of sound was only made practical by the technical advances in microprocessors and computing which occurred in the 1970s and 1980s. LP's sound quality, it contains more distortion than many other modern music formats.

[[Cumbia music]]

CATEGORIES: Latin music

Cumbia music is a Latin music genre. Cumbia music came from Colombia's Caribbean-coastal region. Cumbia music has become popular in Colombia, Mexico and Argentina. Cumbia has dance and tropical music mixed. In the 1990s, Selena helped Cumbia music become more popular with songs like "Baila Esta Cumbia", "No Quiero Saber", "No Debes Jugar", "La Llamada" and "Como La Flor". She also helped "Technocumbia" rise in popularity with "Techno Cumbia". Shakira had also recorded several songs in Cumbia.Source?

[[Canadian Hot 100]]

CATEGORIES: Record charts

The Canadian Hot 100 is a music chart that ranks popular music. It is published on Billboard magazine weekly. The Canadian Hot 100 ranks songs that have gained popularity in radio airplay in Canada. The Canadian Hot 100 is similar to the US Hot 100 chart. The Canadian Hot 100 ranks rock, country, adult contemporary and Top 40 genres.

[[Texas Monthly]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines, Texas, Weekly magazines, 1973 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Texas

Texas Monthly is a monthly magazine that is published in Texas. Texas Monthly was founded in 1973 by Michael R. Levy. Texas Monthly talks about life, music, politics, environment, industry and education in Texas. The magazine has over 300,000 subscribers and is read by 2,500,000 people monthly. The magazine also won ten "National Magazine Awards".

[[Dulce Amor (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1988 songs

"Dulce Amor" ("Sweet Love") is a song by the American singer Selena. The song was nominated "Song of the Year" at the 1989 Tejano Music Awards. Selena's brother, A.B. Quintanilla III had written the song. It was the lead single from the album of the same name (1988). The song had its key signature in common time. It was performed on G minor with 106 beats per minute. The songs lyrics are about a girl expressing her emotions about a guy she really loves. The song was mixed with Cumbia music and Jazz fusion.

[[Juan Gabriel]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2016 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles County, California, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Latin singers, Mexican singer-songwriters, People from Michoacán, Latin Grammy Award winners

Alberto Aguilera Valadez or commonly known as "Juan Gabriel" was a Mexican singer and songwriter. He was also regarded as the "most famous living representatives of Mexican music".

Fue el principal cantante de la música regional mexicana contemporánea en el último tercio del siglo XX hasta el momento de su muerte. Ha vendido más de 150 millones de discos como solista, productor musical y junto a la española Rocío Dúrcal.2 Sus composiciones han sido traducidas a idiomas tan diversos como turco, alemán, francés, italiano, tagalo, japonés, griego, papiamento, portugués e inglés. Era conocido también por realizar obras destinadas a ofrecer las oportunidades de desarrollo a la niñez desafortunada, no solamente en México, también en Venezuela y otros países. Fue benefactor directo de más de un centenar de menores albergados en una escuela llamada «Semjase», creada por él en 1987 en Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua.3

Falleció a los 66 años a causa de un infarto agudo de miocardio4 mientras desarrollaba su gira «MéXIIco es todo».56

[[Costumbres]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 songs, Selena songs, Spanish-language songs

"Costumbres" is a song by American singer Selena. The song was written by Juan Gabriel, a Mexican songwriter, who gave the rights to Selena to record. The song first appeared on Dulce Amor (1988). It became a single off of Siempre Selena (1996). The remix version is included in Siempre Selena.

[[Sony Music Latin]]

CATEGORIES: Latin music, Sony, Miami, Florida, 1980 establishments in the United States

Sony Music Latin is a record company that specializes in Latin music. It is owned by Sony Music Entertainment.

[[Ranchera music]]

CATEGORIES: Latin music

Ranchera is a Latin music genre. Ranchera is usually sung by one or more people with a guitar. It is popularized in Mexico. This type of music can be traced back to the Mexican Revolution. It is also similar to Mariachi music.

[[Mariachi]]

CATEGORIES: Latin music

Mariachi is a Latin music genre. It is popularized in Mexico and its culture. This type of music includes instruments such as the violin, trumpet, guitar, vihuela, guitarrón and sometimes a harp. Mariachi is sung and performed mostly in bands. However, some solo artists such as Selena and Alejandro Fernández have recorded and performed Mariachi songs.

[[Joseph Serchuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1993 deaths, Holocaust survivors, Israeli Jews, Naturalized citizens of Israel, Polish Jews, World War II people

Joseph Serchuk (1919 in Chełm - 6 November 1993) was the commander of the Jewish partisan unit in the Lublin area in Poland during the Holocaust. After the war, he testified at trials of Nazis and he received special recognition from the State of Israel.

[[Angry Birds]]

CATEGORIES: Mobile games

Angry Birds was a puzzle video game developed by Rovio Entertainment from Finland. In the game there are wingless birds. The player uses a slingshot to launch them at pigs that are on or in different structures. The player has to destroy all the pigs in the map to unlock another level. A spin off game, in which you play as the pigs, was also released called Bad Piggies on September 27, 2012.

[[Fishmonger]]

CATEGORIES: Food-related occupations

A fishmonger is someone who sells fish and seafood. Fishmongers can be wholesalers or retailers. In many places there are fewer fishmongers than there used to be. Supermarkets have often replaced independent seafood sellers. Female fishmongers used to have a separate name, fishwife.

[[Deep frying]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking methods

Deep frying is a way of cooking food by putting it in hot oil or fat. Deep frying cooks food very quickly. Deep frying is popular is the United Kingdom - one dish popular in the United Kingdom is fish and chips.

[[Nauru national football team]]

CATEGORIES: National football teams, Nauru

The Nauru national football team is the football team that comes from Nauru. The teams current Ello Ranking is 184. The team does not have a FIFA Ranking because the team is not part of FIFA.

[[Corruption Perceptions Index]]

CATEGORIES: Crime by country, Lists of countries

The Corruption Perceptions Index is an index that shows how corrupt certain countries are. Denmark has been the least corrupt nation eight times, while Somalia has been the most corrupt nation six times. All the information on this page is from Transparency International.

[[Newhall, California]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

Newhall is the southernmost district  of Santa Clarita, California. It is the oldest district of Santa Clarita. Before 1987, Newhall was an independent but unincorporated town.  It was the first permanent Anglo settlement in the valley.

It is named after businessman Henry Newhall. Newhall is home to the William S. Hart County Park. It has tours of the famous silent movie maker's mansion. Over the years, Newhall has been the location for many movies, including Suddenly (1954) and Disney's The World's Greatest Athlete (1973).

[[George Andrew Olah]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2017 deaths, People from Budapest, Hungarian people, American chemists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Hungarian Nobel Prize winners, American Nobel Prize winners

Chemistry

George Andrew Olah (May 22, 1927 – March 8, 2017) was an Hungarian-born American chemist. His research involves the generation and reactivity of carbocations using superacids. For this research, Olah was awarded a Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1994.  The American Chemical Society gave him its highest honor, the Priestley Medal.

[[Serie D]]

CATEGORIES: Football in Italy, Football leagues

Serie D is the top level of the non-professional football clubs in Italy. Serie D ranks just below Serie C.

[[Eigenvalues and eigenvectors]]

CATEGORIES: Basic physics ideas, Linear algebra

[[Superacid]]

CATEGORIES: Acids

A superacid is an acid with an acidity greater than that of 100% pure sulfuric acid. According to the modern definition, a superacid has a chemical potential of the proton higher than that of pure sulfuric acid.

Chemists use strong acids to break down other molecules. Some molecules are so strong (held together with strong chemical bonds) that they resist attack by common acids. Superacids can break down molecules that stand up to most other acids.

Commercially available superacids include trifluoromethanesulfonic acid (CF3SO3H), also known as triflic acid, and fluorosulfonic acid (FSO3H). Both superacids are about a thousand times stronger (that is, have more negative H0 values) than sulfuric acid. The strongest superacids are prepared by the combination of two components, a strong Lewis acid and a strong Brønsted acid. The strongest known superacid is fluoroantimonic acid.

[[Sick building syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Syndromes, Environment, Air pollution, Buildings and structures

Sick building syndrome (SBS) is a combination of illnesses (a syndrome) associated with a human's place of work (office building) or dwelling. A 1984 World Health Organization report into suggested up to 30% of new and remodeled buildings around the world may be linked to symptoms of SBS. Most of the sick building syndrome is related to poor indoor air quality.

SBS can be caused by flaws in the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems. Other causes have been contaminants produced by outgassing of some types of building materials, volatile organic compounds (VOC), molds (see mold health issues), improper exhaust ventilation of ozone (byproduct of some office machinery), using light industrial chemicals in the building, or lack of adequate fresh-air intake/air filtration (see Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value).

People try to fix SBS symptoms by increasing the overall turn-over rate of fresh air exchange between the building's air and the outside air. But the new green building design goals should be able to avoid most of the SBS sources in the first place. Cleaners should lower their use of dangerous VOC cleaning compounds, and get rid of conditions that cause allergenic, potentially-deadly mold growth.

[[Andrea Libman]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Singers from Toronto, Canadian voice actors, Actors from Toronto

Andrea Eva Libman (born July 19, 1984 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada) is a Canadian voice actress, television writer and singer who is best known for voicing Chi-Chi in Dragon Ball, Emmy in Dragon Tales, and Pinkie Pie and Fluttershy in My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic. She also made on-screen appearances in the television shows Highlander: The Series, Susie Q, The Lotus Eaters, and Lyddie.

[[17 Again (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 comedy-drama movies, 2000s fantasy-comedy movies, 2000s teen comedy movies, 2000s teen drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American fantasy-comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, American teen drama movies, English-language movies

17 Again is a 2009 American comedy-drama fantasy movie that was produced by Adam Shankman, Richard S. Wright, Jennifer Gibgot, Tom Rosenberg and Gary Lucchesi and was directed by Burr Steers. 17 Again is about a 37-year-old man who becomes 17 again. It was released on April 17, 2009 in North America. The movie received mixed to positive reviews with a 55% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 48 out of 100 from Metacritic

[[Four Christmases]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 comedy-drama movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, English-language movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, German drama movies, Christmas movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies set in San Francisco

Four Christmases is an 2008 American romantic comedy movie that was produced by Gary Barber, Roger Birnbaum, Jonathan Glickman, Vince Vaughn and Reese Witherspoon and was directed by Seth Gordon. Four Christmases was released on November 26, 2008 in North America. The movie received negative reviews with a 25% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 41 out of 100 from Metacritic.

[[Automatic firearm]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

An automatic firearm is a firearm which will keep firing as long as the trigger is being pulled and there is still ammunition in the magazine.

An automatic weapon works by firing, automatically removing the cartridge case from the chamber, ejecting it from the side of the gun, and then loads a new cartridge into the chamber.

[[Input device]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Data input

In computing, an input device is computer hardware which is used to enter data for processing. Examples of input devices include keyboard, mouse, image scanner, digital cameras and joysticks. A touchscreen is a combined input and output device.

[[Output device]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Computer science

In computing, an output device is a peripheral equipment device that is used to give the results of processed data. 

[[Hitting for the cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball statistics

In baseball, a player hits for the cycle when they hit a single, a double, a triple, and a home run in the same game. It does not have to be in that order. Collecting the hits in that order is known as a natural cycle.

[[Doubleheader (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball

In baseball, a doubleheader is a game played between two teams on the same day. This is usually as a result of weather moving postponing a game.

[[Louisville Colonels]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball teams, Sportspeople from Louisville, Kentucky, 1882 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Kentucky, 1899 disestablishments, 1890s disestablishments in the United States

The Louisville Colonels were a Major League Baseball team that played from 1882 to 1899. The Colonels represented the city of Louisville, Kentucky, in the United States. 

The team played in the American Association (AA). This was an early American major league baseball league from the 1800s. The team was first called the Louisville Eclipse from 1882 to 1884. Then it was renamed the Louisville Colonels in 1885. The name the Colonels comes from the Kentucky colonel, a title of honor in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.

In 1891, the AA folded (stopped existing). The Colonels then joined the National League. The team played for the National League through 1899. 

Notable Colonel players include Fred Clarke, Honus Wagner, and Rube Waddell.

[[Player-coach]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

A player-coach, in sports, is a member of a sports team who simultaneously holds both playing and coaching duties. The term can be used to refer to both players who serve as head coaches, or as assistant coaches.

[[Batting average]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball statistics, Cricket

Batting average is a statistic that is used in cricket and baseball measuring the batting of cricket batsmen or baseball hitters. 

[[New World rats and mice]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

The New World rats and mice are a group of rodents from the family Cricetidae. They are mammals with fur and long tails. These animals live in the wild in North and South America. The group is very large, with about 500 different species. Biologists are not sure whether the group is descended from a common ancestor, so there is no scientific name for it. There are three subfamilies, Neotominae, Sigmodontinae and Tylomyinae.

Members of the New World rats and mice have occupied different ecological niches. Because of this, they have developed different forms. Most of them resemble rats or mice in appearance, but some look like voles, moles, gerbils or shrews. The biggest of them are Kunsia, with about 16–30 cm body length, and about 8–16 cm tail. Among the smallest are Baiomys, with about 5–8 cm body length, and about 5 cm tail.

Most of the New World rats and mice live on the ground, but are good climbers. Some live in trees. Others dig holes in the ground, or live part of their life in the water. New world rats and mice do not hibernate, but on cold days in winter, they sometimes fall into a torpor.

The New World rats and mice have many predators, and usually live only a short time. In the wild, these animals usually live for less than a year, but they have reached ages of up to five years old when kept indoors and protected by people. Some species have adapted to humans, and are hemerophile. This has also shown in some common names, such as the Cotton rat, Marsh rice rat, Brown Cane Mouse or Short-tailed Cane Mouse.

[[Susana González]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Mexican television actors, Mexican movie actors, Living people, People from Zacatecas

Susana Alejandra González del Río (born on October 2, 1973 in Calera de Víctor Rosales, Zacatecas) is a Mexican actress known for her talent, beauty and docile character.

When she was 18 years old, she won a scholarship to Televisa's acting academy. She won the hearts of the people because of her charisma and sweetness.

She has two children, Santiago and Susana. Her parents are Refugio and Elvira, and her siblings are José and Erica.

[[Fabián Robles]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican television actors, 1974 births, Living people, Guanajuato (state)

Fabián Robles (born in León de los Aldama, Guanajuato, Mexico, on April 16, 1974) is a Mexican actor.

[[Marlene Favela]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican television actors, Mexican movie actors, Mexican stage actors, 1976 births, Living people

Silvia Marlene Favela Meraz (born on August 5, 1976 in Santiago Papasquiaro, Durango, Mexico) is a Mexican actress and model She is known for acting in many soap operas. These include Gata Salvaje, El Zorro, the Sword and the Rose, The Heirs of Mount and 's face Vengeance. She was also in the American movie Species - The Awakening. 

[[Ninón Sevilla]]

CATEGORIES: Cuban actors, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Deaths from myocardial infarction, 1921 births, 2015 deaths

Ninón Sevilla (Emelia Pérez Castellanos, November 10, 1921 – January 1, 2015) was a Cuban-Mexican movie dancer and actress who was active during the "golden age" of Mexican cinema. She was considered one of the greatest Cuban stars and the queen of the 'rumberas' (a style of movie dancing).

She was raised by her aunt. She danced her way through Havana night clubs and cabarets, and arrived in Mexico in 1945.

[[LG Optimus 2X]]

CATEGORIES: LG mobile phones

The LG Optimus 2X is a smartphone made by LG Electronics. The Optimus 2X is the world's first smartphone with a dual-core processor. The smartphone holds the Guinness World Record for this.

[[INDO]]

CATEGORIES: Semiempirical quantum chemistry methods

INDO stands for Intermediate Neglect of Differential Overlap. It is a semi-empirical quantum chemistry method that is a development of the complete neglect of differential overlap (CNDO/2) method  developed by John Pople. Like CNDO/2 it uses zero-differential overlap for the two-electron integrals. Integrals for over orbitals centered on the same atom are included in the INDO method.

The method is now rarely used in its original form. But it is the basis for several other methods, such as MINDO, ZINDO and SINDO.

[[Wiswesser Line Notation]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical nomenclature, Cheminformatics

Wiswesser Line Notation, also referred to as WLN, was the first line notation that precisely describes complex molecules. The notation is simple, so that trained chemists as well as computers can translate it.  It was invented by William J. Wiswesser in 1949.

The keypunch was the main data entry device when WLN was developed. Keypunches could only type capital letters(A-Z), numbers(0-9), and a few special characters(& / -). So, the symbols used in WLN were limited so that they could be stored on punched cards.

[[Hemerophile]]

CATEGORIES: Animals, Plants

Hemerophile is a term used for animals and plants that profit from the changes humans have made to their environment. For this reason, they can often be found in the cultural landscape of humans; they are said to follow humans. Some species that live closely together with humans, and that have followed them to their immediate surroundings are called synanthropes. 

[[The Winter's Tale]]

CATEGORIES: Plays by William Shakespeare

The Winter's Tale is a play by William Shakespeare, published in the First Folio, in 1623. It was grouped among the comedies, but some modern editors have relabelled the play as one of Shakespeare's late romances. Some critics, among them W. W. Lawrence, consider it to be one of Shakespeare's "problem plays", because the first three acts are filled with intense psychological drama, while the last two acts are comedic and supply a happy ending. 

Despite this, the play has been popular, and there are different adaptations of it to the stage. The first was done by  David Garrick in his adaptation called Florizel and Perdita; first performed in 1754 and published in 1756. The Winter's Tale was revived again in the 19th century, when the third "pastoral" act was widely popular). In the second half of the 20th century The Winter's Tale  was often performed as a whole. The text was usually taken from the First Folio.

[[William Griffiths (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 births, 1973 deaths, British politicians, Labour MPs (UK)

William Griffiths (7 April 1912–14 April 1973) was a British Labour Party politician in the United Kingdom.  He was Member of Parliament for Moss Side from 1945 until 1950. He represented Manchester Exchange from 1950 until his death in 1973.

[[Gran Turismo (PlayStation Portable)]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation Portable-only games, 2009 video games, Gran Turismo series

Gran Turismo is the PlayStation Portable game of the Gran Turismo racing series. It has over 700 cars.

The fastest cars are the Bugatti Veyron, and the two Formula One cars.[Source?]

[[Remipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Crustaceans

Remipedia is a class of blind crustaceans. They live in coastal aquifers.

So long as the water is salty, these little animals can be found.

They are found in almost every ocean basin, including in Australia, the Caribbean Sea, the Atlantic Ocean. They live in subtropical waters.

The first described remipede was a fossil called Tesnusocaris goldichi (early Pennsylvanian). Since 1979 at least 17 living species have been identified.

Genetic studies suggest that remipedes are the arthropods most closely related to insects.

[[Hokkien]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese language, Languages of China

Hokkien refers to a Chinese language spoken in Southern Fujian, Taiwan and many Southeast Asian countries such as Malaysia and Singapore. It is similar to Teochew.

[[Kumaranalloor]]

CATEGORIES: Kerala

Kumaranallor is a place in Kerala, India. It is in Kottayam District. It is well known for the Devi Temple.

[[Ichinoseki, Iwate]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Iwate Prefecture

Ichinoseki is a city in the south of Iwate Prefecture, Japan and on the Iwai River. After Morioka and Ōshū, it is the third largest city in the prefecture.

[[Maxillopoda]]

CATEGORIES: Crustaceans

Maxillopoda is a diverse class of crustaceans which includes the barnacles, copepods and a number of related animals.

It does not appear to be a monophyletic group, and no single character unites all the members.

[[Line notation]]

CATEGORIES: Notation, Chemical nomenclature, Musical notation

Line notation is a text-based notation system using ASCII characters.  It is most often used for chemical nomenclature. An entire chemical structure is written on a single straight line.

Line notation can also be a word and symbol description of an electrochemical cell used in chemistry. 

[[Cephalocarida]]

CATEGORIES: Crustaceans

Cephalocarida is a class inside the subphylum Crustacea that has only twelve shrimp-like benthic species. They were discovered in 1955, and are commonly referred to as horseshoe shrimps.

All cephalocaridans are in just one family: Hutchinsoniellidae. Even though there is no fossil record of cephalocaridans, most specialists believe them to be basal (primitive) among crustaceans.

[[Dulce Amor Tour]]

CATEGORIES: Concert tours, 1988 in the United States, 1989 in Texas, 20th century in San Antonio, Texas, 20th century in Dallas, Texas, 20th century in Houston, Texas, History of Austin, Texas

The Dulce Amor Tour was the seventh small concert tour by American singer Selena. The tour was to promote her seventh independent LP record Dulce Amor (1988). The tour began on November 26, 1988 in Corpus Christi, Texas. The concert ended on July 26, 1989 in Houston, Texas. Selena had sung a lot of covers during this tour. She also had begun designing her own clothing. 

Selena was inspired by Janet Jackson, Madonna and Paula Abdul for designing her own clothing. Selena was inspired by Michael Jackson for dance moves that she could perform. In some concerts, Selena was underpaid by venues across Texas. She was not paid fairly because she was a female lead-singer in a male-dominated genre. Selena had food thrown at her by Tejano fans at one of her concerts. 

The concert tour had grossed only $4,500. The concert ended because of angry fans and because Selena was being promoted to EMI Latin.

[[Church's Chicken]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Texas, American fast food restaurants, San Antonio, Texas

Church's Chicken is a restaurant franchise that specializes primarily in fried chicken, but also sells french fries, mashed potatoes and biscuits. It was founded in San Antonio on April 17, 1952. Its headquarters are in Sandy Springs, Georgia. Church's is the 4th largest fried chicken franchise in the United States, the largest being Kentucky Fried Chicken.

[[PPSh-41]]

CATEGORIES: Submachine guns

The PPSh-41 (''Pistolet-Pulemyot Shpagina''; Пистолет-пулемёт Шпагина; "Shpagin machine pistol") is a Soviet submachine gun. It was designed by Georgi Shpagin. The PPSh-41 was supposed to be a cheaper, simpler gun to use than the PPD-40. The PPD-40 was in Soviet service at that time. The PPSh-41 officially replaced the PPD-40 in 1941. The PPSh-41 was supposed to be used by conscripted soldiers with very little training. The PPSh-41 got its ammunition from a magazine. It was also a selective fire submachine gun. It was made mostly of stamped steel. It fired the 7.62×25mm pistol round. The PPSh-41 was used a lot during World War II and the Korean War, as it was the most produced SMG throughout the wars. It was still in use in Vietnam with the Viet Cong as late as 1970 as the Chinese Type 50 (a copy). There were even some PPSh-41's captured by US soldiers as late as the Iraq War.

[[Geto Boys]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rap music groups, Hip hop bands, Musical groups from Texas, Musicians from Houston, Texas, Warner Bros. Records artists

Geto Boys (Formerly Ghetto Boys) is an American rap group from Houston, Texas. Geto Boys have three members in the band; the current band members are Bushwick Bill, Scarface and Willie D. The best is known for their use of misogyny, gore, psychotic experiences, and necrophilia in their lyrics. The band originally consisted of members; Prince Johnny C, The Slim Jukebox, DJ Ready Red, and Little Billy. Little Billy later became known as Bushwick Bill.

[[IONIS Education Group]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in France, 1980 establishments in France

IONIS Education Group  is the leading private higher education group in France. The group was created in 1980 and has more than 20,000 students and 62,000 alumni in 2015 currently working in business, IT, aviation, energy, transportation, biology, management, finance, marketing, communication, and design. 25 schools are members of the group.

It also has an independent non-profit Foundation.

[[Scarface (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Muslims, American rap musicians from Texas, Singers from Houston, Texas

Brad Terrence Jordan (born November 9, 1970 in Houston, Texas), known by his stage name, Scarface, is an American rapper. He is best known as being a member of the rap group, Geto Boys. Scarface also appears in the video games Def Jam Vendetta and Def Jam: Fight for NY. He is cited as being an influence to many different rappers.

[[Die Deutschen Inschriften]]

CATEGORIES: History of Germany

Die Deutschen Inschriften des Mittelalters und der Frühen Neuzeit (DI) (English: The German Inscriptions of Medieval and Early Modern Times) is one of the oldest collections of historical inscriptions. The series tries to collect, to describe and to explain a huge number of inscriptions. The inscriptions used date from medieval and early modern times. The Inscriptions are in today's Federal Republic of Germany, Republic of Austria and South Tyrol. The project was instituted by the German linguist Friedrich Panzer (from Heidelberg) in 1934. The historians Karl Brandi (from Göttingen) and Hans Hirsch (from Vienna) helped him with his effort. The scientists planed the task as an interacademic venture to publish writings concerning epigraphy. By now 81 volumes have been published. An individual volume contains usually the inscriptions of a single city, of a German district or an Austrian district. Several of the Academies of Sciences work together to publish the volumes and to push the project further. The German Academies involved are in Berlin, Düsseldorf, Heidelberg, Leipzig, Mainz, Göttingen und München. Also the Austrian Academy of Sciences in Vienna is involved. The Reichert-Verlag is the publishing house of the scientific editions.

[[Buenos Amigos]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1991 songs, Spanish-language songs

"Buenos Amigos" ("Good Friends") is a duet from American singer Selena and Salvadoran singer Alvaro Torres. The song became Selena's first number-one single. It peaked at number-one on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks in 1992. The single "Como La Flor" (1992) became Selena's first solo artist single.

[[¿Qué Creias?]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1992 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"¿Qué Creias?" ("What Did You Think?") is a song by American singer Selena. ¿Qué Creias? became the third single from Entre A Mi Mundo (1992). It peaked at number 14 on the Hot Latin Tracks and number 16 on the Latin Regional Mexican Airplay chart. 

[[Amame]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1992 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"Amame" ("Love Me") is a song by American singer Selena. "Amame" became the fourth and last single from Entre A Mi Mundo (1992). "Amame" peaked at number 27 on the Hot Latin Tracks and number 21 on the Regional Mexican Airplay chart. "Amame" was remixed for Anthology (1998). It included a ballad version of the song.

[[No Debes Jugar]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1993 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"No Debes Jugar" ("You Shouldn't Play Around") is a song by American singer Selena. The song was the lead single from Selena Live! (1993). The song peaked at number three on the Hot Latin Tracks, Latin Regional Mexican Airplay and Latin Pop Airplay chart. 

[[La Llamada]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1993 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"La Llamada" ("The Phone Call") is a song by American singer Selena. "La Llamada" became the second single from Selena Live! (1993). The music video was filmed in Malibu, CaliforniaFebruary 2012. The song peaked at number five on the Hot Latin Tracks, number six on the Latin Regional Mexican Airplay and number eight on the Latin Pop Airplay charts. 

[[Tú Robaste Mi Corazón]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1993 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"Tu Robaste Mi Corazón" ("You Stole My Heart") is a duet by Mexican-American singer Selena and Mexican-American singer Emilio Navaira. "Tu Robaste Mi Corazon" was the third and last single from Selena Live! (1993). In Siempre Selena (1996), the male parts of the song was performed by Pete Astudillo. The song peaked at number five on the Hot Latin Tracks, number six on the Latin Pop Airplay and number eight on the Latin Regional Mexican Airplay charts.

[[Donde Quiera Que Estés]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 songs, Selena songs, Spanish-language songs

"Dondequiera Que Estés" ("Wherever You Are") is a single released by Selena with a duet with the Barrio Boyzz. The song was a major hit in 1994, staying at #1 for 6 weeks on top of the Hot Latin Tracks chart.

[[Bushwick Bill]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, American rap musicians from Texas, Singers from Houston, Texas, People with dwarfism

Richard Shaw (December 8, 1966 – June 9, 2019), known by his stage name, Bushwick Bill, was an American rapper of Jamaican descent. He was best known as being a member of the rap group, Geto Boys. Bushwick Bill has dwarfism.

[[Bidi Bidi Bom Bom]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1994 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs, Selena Gomez songs

"Bidi Bidi Bom Bom" is a song by American singer Selena.

[[Fotos y Recuerdos]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1994 songs, Spanish-language songs

"Fotos y Recuerdos" ("Pictures and Memories") is a song by American singer Selena. The song sampled the song "Back on the Chain Gang" by The PretendersFebruary 2012.

[[Gullfoss]]

CATEGORIES: Waterfalls, Bodies of water of Europe, Geography of Iceland

Gulfoss is a waterfall in Iceland. It is part of the Golden Circle tour, which is a popular tour that many tourists take. The Golden Circle shows you the national park Þingvellir, the waterfall Gullfoss (meaning "golden falls"), and the geothermally active valley of Haukadalur, which contains the geysers (erupting hot-springs). In Icelandic, 'Gul' means 'Gold' or 'Golden' and 'Foss' translates into 'Fall'.

[[Si Una Vez]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 songs, Selena songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"Si Una Vez" ("If Once") is a song by American singer Selena. It was released as the fifth single from Amor Prohibido (1994).

[[I Could Fall in Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 songs, 1990s ballads, Pop ballads, Rhythm and blues ballads, Selena songs, Soul ballads

"I Could Fall in Love" is a song by American Tejano singer Selena. It was written and produced by Keith Thomas. It was for Selena's fifth album Dreaming of You (1995). The song's lyrics are about a woman who loves a guy. She is scared of rejection so she decides not to tell him and keeps it to herself.

It was released in the United States on June 26, 1995 as a promotional recording and not as a CD single. Because of this, it was not eligible for the Billboard Hot 100 chart. The song was released three months after Selena was killed by her friend and ex-employer of her clothing stores, Yolanda Saldivar. "I Could Fall in Love" reached number eight on the US Hot 100 Airplay chart. It reached number one in Canada and the US Latin Pop Airplay chart. "I Could Fall in Love" had also reached many other positions on other charts.

Helped by heavy rotation, "I Could Fall in Love" became Selena's most famous songs. It also helped her gain English speaking fans. Many American Idol contestants have covered the song. Puerto Rican singer and actress, Jennifer Lopez have covered the song as a tribute to Selena during one of her concerts. Cuban singer, Gloria Estefan have covered the song during the Selena ¡VIVE! concert held on April 9, 2005.

[[Willie D]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, American rap musicians from Texas, Singers from Houston, Texas

William James Dennis (born November 1, 1966 in Houston, Texas), known by as, Willie D, is an American rapper and record producer. He is best known as being a member of the rap group, Geto Boys. Willie D took up boxing at the age of 11 and in 1985, became the Golden Gloves Champion for the State of Texas. Instead of becoming a professional boxer, he became a well known MC. J Prince, the founder of Rap-A-Lot Records saw his talent and added him to the his label as well as the group which would become known as The Geto Boys.

[[CiCi's Pizza]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in the United States, American fast food restaurants, Companies based in Texas

CiCi's Pizza is an American buffet restaurant chain based in Coppell, Texas.

[[I'm Getting Used to You]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1995 songs

"I'm Getting Used To You" is a song by American singer Selena. "I'm Getting Used To You" became the third single released from Dreaming of You (1995). 

[[El Toro Relajo]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1995 songs, Spanish-language songs

"El Toro Relajo" ("The Messy Bull") is a song by American singer Selena. It was the fourth single released from Dreaming of You (1995) in the United States. It became the second single released for Mexico. The song was originally recorded for the Don Juan DeMarco movie soundtrack. Selena played a mariachi singer in that movie.

[[Techno Cumbia]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1994 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"Techno Cumbia" is a song by American singer Selena. The song was the fifth single released from Dreaming of You (1995). It was originally the last single from Amor Prohibido (1994). "Techno Cumbia" was made from Techno music and Cumbia music combined. A music video was released after Selena's murder.

[[Tú Sólo Tú]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1995 songs, Spanish-language songs

"Tú Sólo Tú" ("You, Only You") is a song by American singer Selena. "Tú Sólo Tú" became the last single released from Dreaming of You (1995). 

[[Captive Heart]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1995 songs

"Captive Heart" is a song by American singer Selena. It was released as a promotional single, however it managed to impact music charts in the United States. It also received mixed to negative reviews from music critics. The song was a electropop song.

[[Siempre Hace Frío]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1996 songs, Spanish-language songs

"Siempre Hace Frio" ("It's Always Cold") is a song by American singer Selena. It was released as the lead single from Siempre Selena (1996). It was released after Selena's murder. A music video was released, starring Jennifer Lopez as "Selena". She later had the role as Selena in the 1997 movie about Selena's life.

[[Funeral home]]

CATEGORIES: Death, Business

A funeral home is a place that helps take care of people who have died. Usually people go there for funerals.

[[Isotope electrochemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Physical chemistry, Isotopes

Isotope electrochemistry is a field within electrochemistry concerned with various topics like electrochemical separation of isotopes, electrochemical estimation of isotopic exchange equilibrium constants, electrochemical kinetic isotope effect, electrochemical isotope sensors, etc.

Chemists are actively working in this area. It overlaps with many other chemistry areas of both theoretical and practical importance like nuclear engineering, electrochemical technology, geochemistry, sensors and instrumentation.

[[Where Did the Feeling Go?]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1997 songs

"Where Did The Feeling Go?" is a song by Australian soft rock duo Air Supply. In 1989, American singer Selena had done a cover version of the song. The song was not released until after her murder. The single was released on the movie soundtrack in 1997. Selena's version peaked at number 88 on the Canadian Hot 100 chart and number 26 on the Adult Top 40 chartJanuary 2012.

[[Is It the Beat?]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1997 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla

"Is It The Beat?" is a song by American singer Selena. The dance-pop song peaked at number four on the US Hot Dance Club SongsDecember 2011. It was also the English version of "Enamorada de Ti". Selena had recorded several versions for this song. She had performed the freestyle version at live concerts in 1989-1991. The single was not released until after Selena's murder. It was included in the movie soundtrack in 1997. It was released with dance-club remixes.

[[Last Dance/The Hustle/On the Radio]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1997 songs

"Last Dance/The Hustle/On The Radio" (or the Disco Medley) is a medley by American singer Selena. The medley had sampled the songs the "Last Dance", "The Hustle" and "On The Radio" by Donna Summer. The Mexican release had "Viviras Selena" (a tribute/various artists song) which was written by Pete Astudillo.

[[A Boy Like That]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s songs, Selena songs

"A Boy Like That" is a popular Broadway song. "A Boy Like That" (originally "A Boy Like That/I Have A Love") was written by Leonard Bernstein and Stephen Sondheim for the musical play, The West Side Story (1957). The song was performed by Chita Rivera (Anita) and Carol Lawrence (Maria). In the 1960 movie version the roles were played by Rita Moreno and Natalie Wood, but the songs were dubbed by Betty Wand and Marni Nixon (as both Anita and Maria). 

[[Sukiyaki (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, Selena songs, 1961 songs, Japanese music

"Ue o Muite Arukō" ("I Shall Walk Looking Up") is a song by Japanese singer Kyu Sakamoto. It was dubbed "Sukiyaki" in popular culture. The song peaked on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the United States in 1963, and was the only Japanese language song to do so. The song sold over 13 million copies internationally.

[[Biophysical chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry, Biology

Biophysical chemistry is the study of biological systems. It looks for explanations of the various phenomena in biological systems in terms of either the molecules that make up the system or the supra-molecular structure of these systems. 

Biophysical chemists use various tools used in physical chemistry to probe the structure of biological systems. These tools include spectroscopic methods like nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and X-ray diffraction. For example, the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2009 was based on x-ray diffraction studies of ribosomes.

Biophysical chemists study protein structure and the functional structure  of cell membranes. For example, enzyme action can be explained in terms of the shape of a pocket in the protein molecule that matches the shape of the substrate molecule or its modification due to binding of a metal ion. Similarly, biophysical chemists study the structure and function of the biomembranes using model supramolecular structures. These include liposomes or phospholipid vesicles of different compositions and sizes.

The oldest well-known institute for biophysical chemistry is Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry in Göttingen. The Biophysics Department of King's College London is where the X-ray crystallography studies of DNA was done in the early 1950s.

[[Bioinorganic chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

Bioinorganic chemistry studies the role of metals in biology. It also studies  natural phenomena such as the behaviour of metalloproteins and artificially introduced metals in medicine and toxicology.  Many biological processes such as respiration depend on some inorganic molecules. Bioinorganic chemistry also includes the study of inorganic models or mimics that imitate the way metalloproteins work.

It is a mix of biochemistry and inorganic chemistry. Bioinorganic chemistry studies the implications for biology of electron-transfer proteins, substrate bindings and activation, atom and group chemistry as well as metal properties.

[[Kōji]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese food

Kōji (麹 or こうじ) is a fermented food.

A mold called Aspergillus oryzae is added to rice, barley, or soy beans. This mold turns starch into sugar. Kōji is an ingredient in making many Japanese foods and drinks such as: sake, mirin, miso, vinegar, pickles, soy sauce, shōchū, and awamori.

[[Koji]]

Koji or kōji means:

In Japan, Kōji may mean:

[[Madea]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters

Mabel "Madea" Simmons is a fictional African American character. "Madea" is played by Tyler Perry in drag clothing.

[[Royal ghost frog]]

CATEGORIES: South Africa, Frogs

The Royal ghost frog (Heleophryne regis) is a species of frog in the Heleophrynidae family.

It is endemic to South Africa.

Its natural habitats are temperate forests, Mediterranean-type shrubby vegetation, and rivers.

It is threatened by habitat loss.

[[Joey Tribbiani]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional American people, Fictional characters introduced in 1994, Friends characters

Joey Tribbiani is a fictional character on American sitcom Friends, portrayed by Matt LeBlanc. In the series, Joey is an actor, and plays "Dr. Drake Ramoray" on Days Of Our Lives.

[[Doburoku]]

CATEGORIES: Fermented drinks, Japanese food

Doburoku is a kind of sake. It is an alcoholic drink made in Japan. It is made with steamed rice, kōji, water, and yeast. Actual doburoku is only made with special permission. Something similar is often sold as nigori sake.

It is very easy to make at home with simple kitchen tools. However, this kind of sake is not legal to make at home in Japan.

[[Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Handicapped University]]

Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Handicapped University (or in short JRHU) (जगद्गुरुरामभद्राचार्यविकलाङ्गविश्वविद्यालयः, जगद्गुरु रामभद्राचार्य विकलांग विश्वविद्यालय), is a university in Chitrakoot, Uttar Pradesh, India. It is the first university in India and the world which is only for disabled people. It was started on September 27, 2001 by Jagadguru Rambhadracharya. It is run by a trust named as Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Viklang Shikshan Sansthan. The trust is responsible for all planned works of the university. It was created by a local law of the Uttar Pradesh Government, which was afterwards accepted as the Uttar Pradesh State Act 32 (2001) by the Uttar Pradesh legislature. This act assigned Jagadguru Rambhadracharya as the chancellor of this university for his entire life.

The university offers graduate, post-graduate and doctorate degrees in courses such as Sanskrit, Hindi, English, Sociology, Psychology, Fine Arts, Special education, Education, History, Culture & Archeology, Computer & Information Sciences, Vocational Education, Law, Economics, and Prosthetics and Orthotics. The university is planning to give courses in Ayurveda and Medical Sciences from 2013. The permission to enter into the university is limited to only four types of disabled students – those who are blind, or have difficulty in hearing, having difficulty in walking or having some mental illness, as defined in the Disability Act (1995) of the Government of India. Various degrees were given to 354 disabled students in the second graduation ceremony of the university which was held in March 2010. In the third graduation ceremony which was held in January 2011, 388 disabled students were given degrees. All the facilities in the university such as classrooms, hostel and laboratory etc. are disabled friendly.

[[Pons]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain

The pons is part of the hindbrain, the ancient rear part of the brain. It acts as a bridge, and has nerve fibres connecting the cerebellum to the medulla oblongata. In humans it is above the medulla and below the midbrain.

Mainly, its function is to carry white fibres ("wiring") which conduct signals from the cerebrum down to the cerebellum and medulla, and tracts that carry the sensory signals up into the thalamus.

[[Dibutyl sebacate]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Dibutyl sebacate (DBS) is an organic compound. It is used as a plasticizer. It is a dibutyl ester of sebacic acid. Its main use is to produce plastics. It can make cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate propionate, ethyl cellulose, polyvinyl butyral, polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene, and other plastics. These plastics are used in the food packaging industry, in medical devices, and in pharmaceutical applications. For example, it is used as a plasticizer for film coating of tablets, beads, and granules.

It is used make synthetic rubbers (especially nitrile rubber and neoprene). It is also used as a lubricant (something that reduces friction between moving surfaces) in shaving lotions, and a flavoring additive in non-alcoholic beverages, ice cream, ices, candy, and baked goods. DBS works well with a range of plastic materials. It has good properties at low temperatures, and helps plastics from being dissolved by oil. Dibutyl sebacate is also used as a desensitizer in Otto fuel II, a torpedo monopropellant.

DBS is also called Morflex, Kodaflex, polycizer, Proviplast 1944 and PX 404.

[[Tombolo]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

A tombolo is a line of sand that connects an island to the main land or to another island. They are often shaped like a hammer as they have been created by a complex process, called longshore drift. The word 'tombolo' translates to mound. It is a shaped piece of sand that is attached to something called a spit or bar. 

[[Habituation]]

CATEGORIES: Learning, Physiology

Habituation is a basic activity whereby an animal responds less to repeated stimuli. It is a primitive kind of learning.

The learning that underlies habituation is a basic process of biological systems. Animals do not need conscious motivation or awareness for it to occur. Habituation enables organisms to distinguish meaningful information from background stimuli.

Habituation occurs in all animals, as well as in the large protozoan Stentor coeruleus. The decrease in responding is specific to the habituated stimulus. For example, if one was habituated to the taste of lemon, their responding would increase significantly when presented with the taste of lime.  

Two factors that can influence habituation include the time between each stimulus, and the length of time the stimulus is presented. Shorter intervals and longer durations increase habituation, and vice versa.

[[Nasal consonant]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

A nasal consonant is a type of consonant produced with a lowered velum in the mouth, allowing air to come out through the nose, while the air is not allowed to pass through the mouth because something (like the tongue or the lips) is stopping it. Examples of nasal consonants in English are n and m, in words such as nose and mouth.

[[Term (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Algebra

A term is a mathematical expression.

[[Francisco Hernández de Córdoba (founder of Nicaragua)]]

CATEGORIES: 1470s births, 1526 deaths, Nicaraguan people

Francisco Hernández de Córdoba (1475 ? - 1526) is usually reputed as the founder of Nicaragua, and in fact he founded two important Nicaraguan cities, Granada and León. 

[[Francisco Hernández de Córdoba (Yucatán conquistador)]]

CATEGORIES: 1517 deaths, History of Mesoamerica, Spanish explorers, Year of birth unknown

Francisco Hernández de Córdoba (died 1517) was a Spanish conquistador, known to history mainly for the ill-fated expedition he led in 1517, in the course of which the first European accounts of the Yucatán Peninsula were compiled.

[[International Direct Dialing]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications

International Direct Dialing (IDD) is an international telephone call dialed by the caller rather than going via an operator. Since late in the twentieth century, most international calls are direct dialed.

International calls are made by dialing the international call prefix for the country one is in, followed by the country calling code for the country one wishes to call, then the phone number within that country. When phone numbers are published for use abroad, they include the country calling code, but replace the international call prefix with "+" to signify that the caller should use the prefix appropriate for their country.

[[Direct-broadcast satellite]]

CATEGORIES: Television technology

Direct broadcast satellite (DBS) is a term used to refer to satellite television signals intended for home use.

[[Rage]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Rage is an emotion. It is an outward expression of great anger. In Charles Darwin's The Expression of the Emotions he showed that many emotions are shown the same way in many different societies. The expressions of these emotions is largely genetic, and inherited. Rage can be confused with Anger and have similar causes but Rage is more severe.

[[Wii U]]

CATEGORIES: Nintendo video game consoles

The Wii U (ˌ WEE) is a video game console that was released by Nintendo on November 18, 2012, and is the successor of the Wii. The video game machine, or console, was first shown in Nintendo's press conference at the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2011 on June 7, 2011, and was released for sale on November 18, 2012 in North America; November 30, 2012 in Europe and Australia; and December 8, 2012 in Japan. The system has been described as a part of the eighth generation of video game consoles.

The Wii U is Nintendo's sixth home video game console and their first to use 1080p high-definition graphics. The Wii U has a new controller with a touchscreen, which allows the player to continue playing a game by showing the game even when the television is off. Wii games work on the Wii U, and Wii U games can be played with Wii controllers and extras, such as the Wii Remote, Wii MotionPlus, Wii Balance Board, and the Classic Controller. It also has a controller shaped like the Xbox 360 controller, for the hardcore gamers. Nintendo GameCube games and controllers will not work on the Wii U without the adapter used for Super Smash Bros for Wii U. However, it only works for that game. Like on the Wii and Nintendo 3DS, players can create Miis. The best-selling games for the system included Mario Kart 8, New Super Mario Bros. U, and Nintendo Land. The Wii U received positive reviews but did not sell well at all. It has to deal with confusion if the game pad was a Wii accessory.

The Wii U sold 13.56 million units, which makes it the second lowest-selling Nintendo console, behind the Virtual Boy.

[[FG 42]]

CATEGORIES: Battle rifles, Light machine guns, 8 mm firearms

The FG 42 (German: Fallschirmjägergewehr 42 or "paratrooper rifle 42") was a battle rifle. It was made in Nazi Germany during World War II. The weapon was made for use by Fallschirmjäger airborne infantry in 1942. It was used in small amounts until the war ended.

The FG 42 had the power of a light machine gun. It was light and was no larger than the Kar 98k bolt-action rifle. The FG 42 is thought to be one of the most advanced weapons of World War II. It helped shape the modern assault rifle idea.

[[Bioorganic chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

Bioorganic chemistry is a science that combines organic chemistry and biochemistry. Bioorganic chemistry expands organic chemistry towards biology. This differs from biochemistry, which studies biological processes using chemistry. When investigating enzymes and cofactors, bioorganic chemistry overlaps bioinorganic chemistry.

Biophysical organic chemistry is a term used when attempting to describe intimate details of molecular recognition by bioorganic chemistry. 

Bioorganic chemistry is that branch of life science, which deals with the study of biological processes using chemical methods.

[[Carbocation]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

A carbocation is an ion with a positively-charged carbon atom. The charged carbon atom in a carbocation is a "sextet" (that is, it has only six electrons in its outer valence shell instead of eight valence electrons.) Carbon atoms with eight valence electrons have the maximum stability (octet rule). Therefore, carbocations are often reactive, seeking to fill the octet of valence electrons as well as regain a neutral charge. Logic would say that carbocation have sp3 hybridization with an empty sp3 orbital giving positive charge. However, the reactivity of a carbocation more closely resembles sp2 hybridization with a trigonal planar molecular geometry.

[[Isodesmic reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Computational chemistry

An isodesmic reaction is a chemical reaction where the type of chemical bonds broken in the reactant are the same as the type of bonds formed in the reaction product. This type of reaction is often used as a hypothetical reaction in thermochemistry.

An example of an isodesmic reaction is 

Equation 1 describes the deprotonation of a methyl halide by a methyl anion. The energy change associated with this exothermic reaction can be calculated using a computer. The energy change increases going from fluorine to chlorine to bromine and iodine. This shows that the CH2I- anion is the most stable and least basic of all the halides. Each of these reactions are isodesmic. The energy change in each example also depends on the difference in bond energy of the C-X bond in the base and conjugate acid. In other cases, the difference may be due to steric strain (the blocking of atoms by other atoms). The steric strain is small in fluorine (which is a small diameter atom) but large in iodine (in favor of the anion). So, the energy change grows between each example halide despite the fact that C-F bonds are stronger than C-I bonds.

The related term homodesmotic reaction also takes into account orbital hybridization. Homodesmotic reactions also have the same number of carbon to hydrogen (C-H) bonds. An example of a homodesmotic reaction is:

[[Spit]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

A spit is a depositional landform found off coasts. Spits connect to the beach, and extend into the sea. A spit forms because the sand on the beach is moved by the waves along the shore, and the sand collects at the end to form a spit. The process of the waves moving the sand along the shore is known as longshore drift.

[[Sawfish]]

CATEGORIES: Rays

The sawfish are a family of rays which have a long body, like a shark. One feature that separates a sawfish from other rays is its long, saw-like snout. On either side of this rostrum are little teeth like a saw. 

Sawfish have a mouth, nostrils, and gill slits under their body, just like a ray. Also, their pectoral fins are enlarged, like those of a ray. Also like rays, when they settle on the bottom, they take in water through two spiracles just behing the eyes. This gets water to the gills without sand.

Several species can grow to about 7.

[[Eagle ray]]

CATEGORIES: Rays

Eagle rays are cartilaginous fish in the ray family Myliobatidae. They are mostly large species living in the open ocean rather than on the sea bottom.

Eagle rays feed on molluscs and crustaceans, crushing their shells with their flattened teeth, while devil rays and manta rays filter plankton from the water. 

They are excellent swimmers and are able to breach the water up to several metres above the surface. Compared with other rays, they have long tails, and well-defined diamond-shaped bodies. They are ovoviviparous, giving birth to up to six young at a time. They range from 48 to 9.1 in length.

The tail looks like a whip and may be as long as the body. It is armed with a sting. Eagle rays live close to the coast in depths of 1 to 30 metres and in exceptional cases they are found as deep as 300 m. The eagle ray is commonly seen cruising along sandy beaches in very shallow waters.

[[Glasgow Prestwick Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Scotland

Glasgow Prestwick Airport  PIK is the second airport serving Glasgow. It also serves the Greater Glasgow area. It is 1 northeast of the town of Prestwick in South Ayrshire. It is 32 miles from the city centre of Glasgow.

Prestwick is Scotland's largest airport by size. However, Edinburgh Airport, Glasgow International and Aberdeen Airport all handle more passengers. The year with the most passengers passing through Prestwick was 2007. Since 2007, a lot less passengers pass through Prestwick. 1.3 million passengers passed through the airport in 2011. This was 22% reduction from 2010.

Douglas Fowler McIntyre and the Duke of Hamilton owned the airport at first. These people were the first to fly a plane to the top of Mount Everest in 1933. During and after World War II it was a Royal Air Force base. In 1952 it was made a United States Air Force base.

The airport was made bigger in the early 1960s: the runway was made longer and a new terminal building was made. The new, bigger airport opened in 1964. Today, Glasgow Prestwick is mostly used by Ryanair.

On 8 March 2012, Infratil, the company which owns Prestwick, said that they had placed the airport up for sale. The Chief Executive Marco Bogoievski said that he does not regret selling the airport.

The Royal Navy Fleet Air Arm uses part of the airport. It has 3 Sea King helicopters there for search and rescue. They cover Ben Nevis, the Lakes, Northern Ireland and 200 NM (370 km; 230 mi) past the Irish coast. This force is often called 'HMS Gannet'. 15 officers, 11 ratings, 28 civil servants and 50 civilian staff work at the base.

[[Shamarpa]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhism

Shamarpa or more formally Kunzig Shamar Rinpoche is Tibetan Buddhis teacher. Together with Karmapa he is the second lineage holder of the Karma Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism. Shamarpa is regarded as manifestation of Amitabha Buddha. He also is the second lama who consciously incarnates in subsequent order of Buddhist teachers. 

The first Shamar Rinpoche Khedrup Drakpa Senge (1284–1349) was the principal disciple of the 3rd Karmapa Rangjung Dorje.

[[Naropa]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhism

Nāropā (956–1041) was an Indian Buddhist teacher. He was the disciple of Tilopa and also brother and pupil of Niguma. Naropa was the main teacher of Marpa, the founder of the Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism.

[[Iodine deficiency]]

CATEGORIES: Nutrition, Health problems

Iodine deficiency is when there is not enough iodine in the body.  Iodine is an essential trace element. The thyroid hormones thyroxine and triiodotyronine have iodine. In areas where marine food is not eaten, there is low iodine in the diet. This causes iodine deficiency which gives rise to

goiter (so-called endemic goiter), as well as cretinism, which results in developmental delays and other health problems.

The Lancet has said, "According to WHO, in 2007, nearly 2 billion individuals had insufficient iodine intake, a third being of school age. ... Thus iodine deficiency, as the single greatest preventable cause of mental retardation, is an important public-health problem."  Iodine deficiency causes diseases of the oral and salivary glands.

In these areas,small amounts of iodine to table salt in form of sodium iodide, potassium iodide, and/or potassium iodate is added. This helps preventing iodine deficiency. This product is known as iodized salt. Iodine compounds have also been added to other foods. This includes flour, water and milk in areas of deficiency. Seafood is also a well known source of iodine. Thus, iodine deficiency is more common in mountainous regions of the world where food is grown in soil poor in iodine.

[[John Haymes Newton]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from North Carolina

John Newton (born 1965) is an American actor.  He is best known for his work on the television series Superboy and Melrose Place.

[[William Griffiths (VC)]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 births, 1879 deaths, Victoria Cross winners, Irish people

William Griffiths VC (1841–22 January 1879) was an Irish recipient of the Victoria Cross.

[[Trachea]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy

The trachea, or windpipe, is the bony tube that connects the nose and mouth to the lungs, and is an important part of the vertebrate respiratory system. In mammals, the trachea begins at the lower part of the larynx and continues to the lungs, where it branches into the right and left bronchi. Inflammation of the trachea can lead to other conditions, such as tracheitis, which is the inflammation of the linings of the trachea.

[[Pete Smith (baseball, born 1966)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, American baseball players, Atlanta Braves players, Baltimore Orioles players, Cincinnati Reds players, Living people, New York Mets players, San Diego Padres players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts

Peter John Smith (born February 27, 1966 in Abington, Massachusetts) is a former Major League Baseball starting pitcher. He was drafted by the Philadelphia Phillies in the 1st round (21st overall pick) in the amateur draft of 1984. Smith was signed on June 14, 1984 to play Minor League Baseball in the Philadelphia Phillies organization. He batted and threw right-handed during his baseball career.

[[Pete L. Smith]]

CATEGORIES: American baseball players, Boston Red Sox players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts, 1940 births, Living people

Peter Luke Smith (born March 19, 1940) is a former Major League Baseball pitcher who played from 1962 to 1963 for the Boston Red Sox.

[[Trachea (disambiguation)]]

The trachea is a tube in animals that connects the mouth to the lungs.

Trachea might also refer to:

[[Urban Dictionary]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in California, American websites

Urban Dictionary is a website which is a dictionary of slang words. The website was created in 1999 by California Polytechnic State University freshman, Aaron Peckham. The website was listed as #29 in Time's list of 50 best websites of 2008. The website has been featured on Tosh.0's "words of the week". As of January 2011, Urban Dictionary has a alexa rating of 688.

[[Electric ray]]

CATEGORIES: Rays, Cartilaginous fish

The electric rays are a group of rays, flattened cartilaginous fish with enlarged pectoral fins. They are the order Torpediniformes. 

They can produce an electric discharge, ranging from as little as 8 volts up to 220 volts depending on species. There are 69 species in four subfamilies.

These rays have battery-like electric organs on both sides of their heads, which can make a powerful electric shock. They use this shock to stun their prey and for their own self defense.

Electric rays are found from shallow coastal waters down to at least 1000 depth. They are sluggish and slow moving, propelling themselves along with their tails, rather than using their disc-shaped bodies, as other rays do. They feed on invertebrates and small fish. They lie in wait for prey below the sand or other substrate, using their electricity to stun and capture it.

[[Krispy Kreme]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 establishments in the United States, American food companies, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 1930s establishments in North Carolina

Krispy Kreme is the name of an international chain of doughnut shops that was made by Vernon Rudolph in 1937. The real parent company of Krispy Kreme is Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Inc.

While selling all types of doughnuts, Krispy Kreme's signature is a glazed doughnut that is traditionally served warm.

Loblaws supermarkets and Petro-Canada gas stations in Canada have Krispy Kreme. In the United Kingdom Tesco supermarkets, Tesco Extra and Moto service stations carry Krispy Kreme products.

[[Infinite (Eminem album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 albums, Debut albums, Eminem albums, Hip hop albums, Hip hop soul albums, R&B albums

Infinite is the debut studio album by American rapper, Eminem. It was released on November 12, 1996. It was produced by Jeff & Mark Bass, Denaun Porter, DJ Head, Eminem and DJ Rec. The album was given 2.5 out of 5 stars by Allmusic.

[[The Slim Shady LP]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 albums, Eminem albums, Hip hop albums, Comedy hip hop albums

The Slim Shady LP is the second studio album and the major-label debut by American rapper, Eminem. It was released on February 23, 1999 and was produced by Dr. Dre, Eminem, Mark & Jeff Bass, and Mel-Man. The album got critical and commercial success. It debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 charts. The first single from the album is "My Name Is". It earned Eminem a Grammy Award for Best Rap Album and was included in Rolling Stone Magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.

[[Gampopa]]

CATEGORIES: Tibetan Buddhist lamas, 1079 births, 1153 deaths

Gampopa Sonam Rinchen (1079–1153) is Tibetan Buddhist teacher - lama, holder of the Kagyu school, one of the four major schools of Tibetan Buddhism. 

He was the most important (or sun like) student of Milarepa.  

In his young years Gampopa was a physician in Dagpo region of S. Tibet. Before studying under Milarepa, Gampopa had studied the Kadampa tradition, which belongs to gradual Mahayana path. He searched for, and eventually met Milarepa, and attained realization of ultimate reality under his guidance. 

Four of his disciples  founded the four "major" Kagyu schools:

[[The Marshall Mathers LP]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums, Eminem albums, Hip hop albums, Comedy hip hop albums

The Marshall Mathers LP is the third studio album by American rapper, Eminem. The Marshall Mathers LP was released on May 23, 2000 and was produced by Dr. Dre, Mel-Man, Bass Brothers, Eminem and The 45 King. The album was given 5 out of 5 stars by Allmusic. The Marshall Mathers LP 2, the sequel to The Marshall Mathers LP, was released on November 5, 2013.

[[Trill consonant]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

A trill consonant is a consonant that is made by vibrating an articulator, or hitting it many times against something else. For example, the  in the Spanish word "perro" is an alveolar trill, where the tongue is hit many times against the alveolar ridge, or the place just behind the teeth. This vibration is caused by a flow of air.

There are three trill consonants in the International Phonetic Alphabet. These are:

[[The Eminem Show]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 albums, Eminem albums, Hip hop albums, Comedy hip hop albums, Alternative hip hop albums

The Eminem Show is the fourth studio album by American rapper, Eminem. It was released on May 26, 2002 and was produced by Eminem, Jeff Bass, Dr. Dre, and Mr. Porter. The album was given 4 out of 5 stars by Allmusic. On March 7, 2011, the album was certified ten-times-platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America for sales of over ten million copies.

[[Encore (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Eminem albums

Encore is the fifth studio album by American rapper, Eminem. Encore was released on November 12, 2004 and was produced by Dr. Dre, Eminem, Luis Resto, Mike Elizondo and Mark Batson. The album was given 3 out of 5 stars by Allmusic. It was nominated for Best Rap Album, Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group for the song "Encore" and Best Rap Solo Performance for "Mockingbird" at the 48th Grammy Awards.

[[Relapse (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Eminem albums

Relapse is the sixth studio album by American rapper, Eminem. Relapse was released on May 15, 2009. It was produced by Dr. Dre, Eminem, Dawaun Parker, Mark Batson, Trevor Lawrence, Doc Ish, Boi-1da. The album was given 4 out of 5 stars by Allmusic.

[[Demersal]]

CATEGORIES: Fish, Ecology

Demersal animals live on or near the bottom of the sea or lakes. The term is usually applied to fish. 

They occupy the sea floors and lake beds, which usually consist of mud, sand, gravel or rocks. In coastal waters they are found on or near the continental shelf, and in deep waters they are found on or near the continental slope or along the continental rise. They are not generally found in the deepest waters, such as abyssal depths or on the abyssal plain, but they can be found around seamounts and islands. The word demersal comes from the Latin demergere, which means to sink.

Demersal fish are bottom feeders. They can be contrasted with pelagic fish which live and feed away from the bottom in the open water column. Demersal fish fillets contain little fish oil (one to four percent), whereas pelagic fish can contain up to 30 percent.

[[S&M Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

S&M Airlines is the second studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX. S&M Airlines was released on September 5, 1989. The producer of the album was Brett Gurewitz. The last track on the album is a cover of the Fleetwood Mac song, "Go On Your Way".

[[Ribbed]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

Ribbed is the third studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX. Ribbed was released on March 26, 1991. The producer of the album was Brett Gurewitz. Ribbed was also the last album produced for the band by Brett Gurewitz.

[[Selena Etc.]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 establishments in the United States, 2009 disestablishments in the United States, Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Selena

Selena Etc. is American singer Selena's clothing store chain. She began designing and manufacturing in 1993 and opened two boutiques. The two stores were in Corpus Christi and the other in San Antonio. Both had beauty salons. Hispanic Business reported that the singer earned over $5,000,000 dollars from these boutiques. One was going to open in Monterrey, Mexico in 1995 but did not because of her death. In 2009, Chris Perez, widower of Selena, had to close the stores due to the recession of 2007.

[[Through the Years/A Traves de los Años]]

CATEGORIES: Selena albums, 2007 albums, Spanish-language albums

Through the Years/A Traves de los Años is a album by American singer Selena. The album contained an unreleased song called "Feelings". The song was recorded when Selena was only 7 years old.

The album peaked at number 28 on the Top Latin Albums Chart and was certified Gold by the RIAA.February 2012

[[Wet 'n Wild]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks in the United States

Wet 'n Wild is a chain of waterparks including Wet 'n Wild Orlando and Wet 'n Wild Hawaii. Orlando's Wet 'n Wild is across the street from Universal Studios Orlando. Wet 'n Wild is owned by Universal Parks in Orlando.

[[Alice Paul]]

CATEGORIES: 1885 births, 1977 deaths, Quakers, Civil disobedience

Alice Stokes Paul (January 11, 1885 – July 9, 1977) was an American suffragist and activist. Along with Lucy Burns and others, she led a successful campaign for women's suffrage. Her work resulted in the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in 1920. Lucy Burns was part of the National American Woman  Suffrage Association (NAWSA) and she had been treated badly was but she went to save the women rights by suffering. Lucy Burns met Alice Paul in the police station in London when both were arrested because they were protesting Parliament

Paul was the original author of a proposed Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) to the Constitution in 1923. The ERA would not get to the Senate for a vote until 1972. That year, it was approved by the Senate and submitted to the state legislatures for ratification. Approval by 38 states was required to ratify the amendment. Not enough states — only 35 — voted in favor before the deadline. However, people still work to have the states pass the ERA passed by Congress in the 1970s. Other people are working to add a new equality amendment to the US Constitution. Also, almost half of the U.S. states have adopted the ERA into their state constitutions. Alice paul was treated badly but she  stood up for the women rights. History day b.h. 

[[White Trash, Two Heebs and a Bean]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

White Trash, Two Heebs and a Bean is the fourth studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX. White Trash, Two Heebs and a Bean was released on November 5, 1992. The producer of the album was Donnell Cameron, NOFX. The original album title was going to be White Trash, Two Kikes, and a Spic but guitar player Eric Melvin changed it after feeling guilty. It is also the first album with guitar player El Hefe.

[[Punk in Drublic]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

Punk in Drublic is the fourth studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX. Punk in Drublic was released on July 19, 1994. The producers of the album were Ryan Greene and Fat Mike. It is NOFX's most successful album and peaked at #12 on Billboard's Heatseekers chart.

[[Canton of Lucerne]]

CATEGORIES: Canton of Lucerne

Lucerne (German: Luzern, Swiss German: Lozärn, French: Lucerne, Italian: Lucerna, Romansh: Lucerna) is a canton of Switzerland. It can be found in the centre of Switzerland. As of 31 December 2018, the canton has 409,557 people lived there. The capital is Lucerne.

[[Basel-Landschaft]]

CATEGORIES: Basel-Landschaft

The Canton of Basel-Landschaft is a canton of Switzerland. The capital is Liestal.

[[Basel-Stadt]]

CATEGORIES: Basel-Stadt

Basel-Stadt is one of the 26 cantons of Switzerland. The capital is Basel. It is the smallest canton by area.

[[Canton of Neuchâtel]]

CATEGORIES: Canton of Neuchâtel

Neuchâtel is a French-speaking canton in western Switzerland. As of 2018, 176,850 people lived there. The capital is Neuchâtel.

[[PlayStation Vita]]

CATEGORIES: Sony, PlayStation, Sony consoles

The PlayStation Vita is a handheld game console made by Sony Computer Entertainment. It is the replacement model to the PlayStation Portable. It was released in Japan on December 17, 2011. It was released in Europe, North America, South America and Singapore on February 22, 2012. It was released in Australia on February 23, 2012.

It competes with the Nintendo 3DS. It is part of the eighth generation of gaming.

It was discontinued on Amazon on October 12, 2017.

[[La Salle University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic 10 Conference, Colleges and universities in Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1863 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Pennsylvania

La Salle University is a private, co-educational, Roman Catholic university in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The university has about 7,554 students. It was founded in 1863. The current president of the university is Bro. Michael McGinniss.

[[George Washington University]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic 10 Conference, Colleges and universities in the District of Columbia, 1821 establishments in the United States

The George Washington University is a private, coeducational university in Washington, D.C.. The university has about 24,531 students. It was founded on February 9, 1821. The current president of the university is Steven Knapp. 

[[Feathered dinosaur]]

CATEGORIES: Coelurosaurs, Feathered dinosaurs

A feathered dinosaur is a dinosaur with feathers. It is now thought that all coelurosaurs, and perhaps all theropods, had feathers.

The possibility that dinosaurs are closely related to birds raised the possibility of feathers. Fossils of Archaeopteryx include well-preserved feathers, but it was not until the early 1990s that clearly non-bird dinosaur fossils were discovered with preserved feathers. About 40 genera of theropods are now known to be feathered.

Most of these fossils come from the Yixian formation in China. The fossil feathers of one specimen, Shuvuuia deserti, have been tested positive for beta-keratin in immunological tests. This is the main protein in bird feathers.

[[Monoculture]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Monoculture is growing a single crop in a large area.  Farmers decide what is the best crop, and grow only that. This is very common in modern agriculture, as it simplifies the farm and allows relatively few people to harvest large amounts.  Monocultures have problems, however: Pests and diseases that attack only one kind of plant can spread more easily when they only find that kind.  Each kind of plant also needs particular nutrients from the soil.  Fertilizers are used to supply that nutrient.  Farmers who don't understand farming may ruin their farm.

One example of a monoculture is the cavendish banana.

[[Rahonavis]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous dinosaurs, Feathered dinosaurs

Rahonavis is a genus of bird-like feathered dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous, 70–65 million years ago (mya) of what is now northwestern Madagascar.

It is known from a partial skeleton found in a quarry. Rahonavis was a small predator, at about 70 long, with the typical Velociraptor-like raised sickle claw on the second toe.

[[Gran Turismo 2]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 video games, Gran Turismo series

Gran Turismo 2 is the second racing game in the Gran Turismo series. Game is developed by Polyphony Digital and published by Sony Computer Entertainment in 1999 for PlayStation. The game has over 500 cars  and over 20 tracks.

[[Wii Party]]

CATEGORIES: Wii games, 2010 video games, Party video games

Wii Party is a party video game for the Nintendo Wii games console. It was released in Japan on July 8, 2010, in North America on October 3, 2010, and in Europe on October 8, 2010. It takes elements from the Mario Party series, which is another video game series that is made by Nintendo. It has over 80 minigames, like Spin-Off, and House Party.

Board Game Island

In the beginning the players play a minigame to set an order. The winner gets a normal dice plus a gold dice,the second placed 

gets a silver dice, the 3rd place is playing with the bronze dice and the last one does not get anything. He has to play with only one normal dice. The gold dice has the numbers 1 - 6,the silver dice has the numbers 1 - 3,the bronze dice has the numbers 1 - 2 while the normal dice the normal 1 - 6. After the minigame the winner starts first. Then it is the turn of the second place. Place 3 plays as third one and the loser as last one. The object of the game is to reach the mountaintop as first. On the way to the goal there are many happening spaces which makes it harder or easier to win. After each player rolled the dices a minigame appears. 

Globe Trot

The players go on a journey around the world. But in contrast to the other game the player has to take card to move. He can go 

1,2 or 3 spaces. Each player gets 10 coins in the beginning, an Easter egg from the Mario Party series.The object is to reach special points on the globe (as example: Buy a fan in Japan or eat a Hamburger in the USA.)The visiting of a point costs 10 coins. With any visiting the player collects photos. The player who has the most at the end wins. 

Bingo

A game that makes always fun while playing. As a parody to the famous gambling Bingo. Each player chooses a card with Mii's faces on it. Then the game begins. A huge bingo machine drops balls in every round. The balls show Mii's faces. If a player has 3 faces in a row a voice calls 'Bingo!' and the player wins. So called Minigame balls make the players play a minigame. The winner can choose which face we wants to choose.

Mii of a kind

The players swap their Miis against Miis in the middle. The player who has two rows with 3 same Miis in it wins. It is a parody of the card game Thirty-one. 

Spin Off

Players spin a wheel and get money. The player who has the surpreme amount of money wins.

[[UEFA Women's Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Football competitions, UEFA

The UEFA Women's Championship is the women's version of the UEFA European Football Championship. Germany has had the most titles so far (eight titles). The first champion of the tournament was Sweden

The tournament was founded in 1984. The current champions are Germany. Three of the tournaments have been part of the European Competition for Representative Women's Teams and all the rest have been UEFA Women's Championship.

[[Separatist movements of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Pakistan, National liberation movements

Pakistan was established in 1947 as a state for Muslims of colonial India. The driving force behind the movement for Pakistan was the educated Muslim in the Muslim minority states of United Province and Bombay Presidency, those of the Muslim majority areas such as Punjab region, Sindh or Bengal, parts of which eventually formed Pakistan were less enthusiastic and joined the cause of Pakistan in the last years before independence and partition. Its formation was based on the basis of Islamic nationalism. However, due to rampant corruption within the ranks of the government and bureaucracy, economic inequality between the country's two wings caused mainly by a lack of representative government and the government's indifference to the efforts of fierce ethno-nationalistic politicians like Mujeeb-ur-Rehman, colonial East Bengal (Eastern Pakistan) Civil war of and Partition of Pakistan the Bhola cyclone and the 1970 elections were the major factors, resulting in the formation of a new linguistic state of the People's Republic of Bangladesh.

[[Buddhism in Bangladesh]]

CATEGORIES: Bangladeshi culture, Buddhism

Buddhism is the third largest religion in Bangladesh with about 0.7% of population adhering to Theravada Buddhism. Most of the practitioners are from the south-eastern district of Chittagong and Chittagong Hill TractsFebruary 2012.

[[Soweto]]

CATEGORIES: Johannesburg

Soweto is a part of Johannesburg, South Africa. The name used to stand for Southwestern townships. The vast majority of its residents are black. Soweto is known by Soweto Uprising occurred in 1976.

[[Synagogue of Besançon]]

CATEGORIES: Synagogues, Buildings and structures in France, Judaism in France, Besançon

The synagogue of Besançon (synagogue de Besançon or temple israélite de Besançon) is a synagogue in the French city of Besançon, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté. It was built in the center of the city between 1869 and 1871 by Pierre Manotte, and has a Moroccan style. 

This Jewish shrine replaced an old flad that held everyone in Besançon, about 600 persons in the 1860s. The new building just can hold about 200 persons. All rites are Sephardi.

[[Eurovision Song Contest 2012]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in music, Eurovision Song Contest, Baku, 21st century in Azerbaijan

The 57th Annual Eurovision Song Contest was held in Baku, Azerbaijan in May of 2012. It was held in Azerbaijan since they won in 2011 with their singers Ell & Nikki with their song "Running Scared" in Düsseldorf, Germany. 

Forty-two countries announced their participation in this year's contest which less than the 2011 edition when that year, forty-three countries participated in the contest. This year's contest, saw the return of Montenegro after not being part in the Eurovision Song Contest since 2009 and the withdrawal of Armenia and Poland.

Sweden and its representative Loreen, won the contest with the song "Euphoria" with 372 points; ahead Russia, Serbia, the host of the Eurovision Song Contest 2012, Azerbaijan and Albania.

[[Helle Thorning-Schmidt]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Denmark, 1966 births, Living people

Helle Thorning-Schmidt  (born 14 December 1966) is a Danish politician. She is the leader of the Danish Social Democrats and is the first female Prime Minister of Denmark. She left the government in 2015.

[[Samantha Stosur]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Australian tennis players, Sportspeople from Queensland, Female tennis players, People from Brisbane

Samantha Jane "Sam" Stosur  (born 30 March 1984) is an Australian professional tennis player.  She won the 2011 US Open singles title and was a finalist at the 2010 French Open.  Stosur is ranked World No. 5 and her career high in singles is World No. 4, achieved on 21 February 2011. She is a former world No. 1 on the WTA Tour in doubles with Lisa Raymond from the United States.She is currently Australian Number  1.

[[Pallas]]

CATEGORIES: Titans

Pallas (Πάλλας) was a Titan from Greek mythology. He was associated with war, killed by Athena in the contest to fight for Zeus. Most sources say he was the son of Crius and Eurybia, the brother of Astraeus and Perses, and the husband of Styx. He was the father of Zelus, Nike, Kratos, and Bia. In addition, he has been named as the father of Scylla, Fontes, and Lacus. Some say he was the son of Megamedes and father of Selene, and is also recorded as the father of Eos.

The city Pellene, in Achaea, was named after Pallas, as was the asteroid 2 Pallas.

[[Childhood obesity]]

CATEGORIES: Obesity

Childhood obesity consists of excess body fat that adversely affects children's health and well being. Obesity for children is especially dangerous because many overweight children will become overweight adults. Health problems related to overweight kids include but are not limited to Type 2 diabetes in adolescence and young adulthood, heart disease, stroke and high blood pressure, diseases which until recently were not common in children and teenagers.

[[Fricative consonant]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

A fricative consonant is a consonant that is made when you squeeze air through a small hole or gap in your mouth. For example, the gaps between your teeth can make fricative consonants; when these gaps are used, the fricatives are called sibilants. Some examples of sibilants in English are s, z, ʃ, and ʒ. 

English has a fairly large number of fricatives, and it has both voiced and voiceless fricatives. Its voiceless fricatives are s, ʃ, f, and θ, and its voiced fricatives are z, ʒ, v, and ð 

[[FIFA World Rankings]]

CATEGORIES: FIFA

The FIFA World Rankings is a ranking of men's football teams selected by FIFA. Currently, the team ranked #1 is Belgium. The rankings were first made in 1993. The first team to receive first place was Germany.

A points system is used, with points being awarded based on the results of all FIFA-recognized full international matches.

FIFA announced in June 2018 that the ranking system would be updated following the 2018 World Cup. The calculation method to be adopted will be closely modeled after the Elo rating system and rankings of its member associations will be updated on a game-by-game basis. The weighting designated for each confederation for ranking purposes was removed. However, the new method does not account for home or away games and margin of the victory, unlike the Elo rankings. This produced a more altered ranking table, with Germany falling to 15th and 2018 World Cup champions France moving to the top of the ranking.

[[Central limit theorem]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

In probability theory and statistics, the central limit theorems, abbreviated as CLT, are theorems about the limiting behaviors of aggregated probability distributions. They say that given a large number of independent random variables, their sum will follow a stable distribution. If the variance of the random variables is finite, then a Gaussian distribution will result. This is one of the reasons why this distribution is also known as normal distribution. 

The best known and most important of these is known as the central limit theorem. It is about large numbers of random variables with the same distribution, each with an identical finite variance and expected value.  

There are different generalisations of this theorem. Some of these generalisations no longer require an identical distribution of all random variables. In these generalisations, another precondition makes sure that no single random variable has a bigger influence on the outcome than the others. Examples are the Lindeberg and Lyapunov conditions. 

The name of the theorem is based on a paper George Pólya written in 1920, About the Central Limit Theorem in Probability Theory and the Moment problem.

[[MG 42]]

CATEGORIES: General-purpose machine guns, 8 mm firearms

The MG 42 (shortened from German: Maschinengewehr 42, or "machine gun 42") was a  general-purpose machine gun. It was created in Nazi Germany. It began being used by the Wehrmacht in 1942. It was used with (and sometimes replaced) the MG 34 machine gun in the German Armed Forces. Both weapons were made and used until the end of the war.

The MG 42 was known for being reliable, simple and easy to use. However, it is best known for its very high rate of fire so the Germans called it "Hitlersäge", or "Hitler's saw". There were other automatic weapon designs with similar firepower. Some examples of these are the French Darne, the Hungarian-Gebauer, the Russian 7.62mm ShKAS and the British Vickers K machine gun. However, because the MG 42 got its ammunition from a belt and its barrel was easy to change, it could fire for longer periods of time than these weapons.

The MG 42 was used to create new weapons after Nazi Germany surrendered. The MG1 (MG 42/59) was nearly exactly the same as the MG 42. The MG1 became the MG1A3, which in turn became the MG 3. The Swiss MG 51, SIG MG 710-3, Austrian MG 74, and the Spanish 5.56mm Ameli light machine gun were all designed from the MG 42. The M60 and Belgian MAG also copied some features. The MG 42 was still used by many armed groups after the war.

[[Chocolate gravy]]

CATEGORIES: Sauces

Chocolate gravy is a type of gravy made with fat, flour, cocoa powder and sometimes sugar. In the United States, there is a dish called biscuits and gravy, for which chocolate gravy is often used.

[[Waziristan]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Pakistan

Waziristan (Pashto and وزیرستان, "land of the Wazir") is a mountainous region of northwest Pakistan, bordering Afghanistan and covering about 11585. It is part of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, which is not part of any of the country's four provinces.

[[Chemical biology]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry, Cells

Chemical biology is a science that combines the fields of chemistry and biology. It involves the application of chemical techniques and tools, often compounds produced through synthetic chemistry, to the study and manipulation of biological systems.

It is different from biochemistry. Biochemistry is the study of the chemistry of biological molecules. For example, a biochemist studies the three-dimensional structure of a protein and how that structure relates to the chemistry of the protein. Also, biochemistry studies the way enzymes work. Chemical biologists use chemical principles to modulate systems. They do this to either investigate biology relationships or create new functions. In this way, the research done by chemical biologists is often closer to that of cell biology than biochemistry. Biochemists work in the chemistry of biology, but chemical biologists work in chemistry applied to biology.

[[Solid-state chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

Solid-state chemistry, (also called materials chemistry) is the study of the synthesis, structure, and properties of solid phase materials. It focuses on non-molecular solids. It has much in common with solid-state physics, mineralogy, crystallography, ceramics, metallurgy, thermodynamics, materials science and electronics. It focuses on the synthesis of new materials and their characterization.

[[Abdominal obesity]]

CATEGORIES: Obesity

Abdominal obesity, also called central body obesity, is a condition involving excess fat surrounding the abdomen and an increase in waist size in humans. Obesity in this area is linked to Type 2 Diabetes, insulin resistance and heart disease in humans of both genders.

[[Alveolar consonant]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

An alveolar consonant is a consonant with the tongue close to the alveolar ridge, which is the part just behind our teeth. Alveolar consonants that are pronounced with the tip of the tongue, like in English, are called apical consonants while those pronounced using the blade of the tongue which is the flat part of the tongue behind the tip, are called laminal consonants. Alveolar consonants in English are n, t, d, s, and l. The alveolar consonants n, the alveolar nasal, and t, the voiceless alveolar plosive, are the most common sounds in human languages. 

[[List of programming languages]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages, Computer-related lists

This is a list of programming languages.

[[John George Kemeny]]

CATEGORIES: Computer scientists, 1926 births, 1992 deaths

John George Kemeny (31 May 1926 - 26 December 1992) developed BASIC with Thomas Eugene Kurtz at Dartmouth College, in 1964.

[[List of bus models]]

CATEGORIES: Buses, Transport lists

The following is a list of buses. It is not complete. The different types of bus, used in this chart, are:

There are over 300 buses in this list.

The year that is displayed refers to the first year of the model.

[[Odontochelys]]

CATEGORIES: Turtles, Marine reptiles

Odontochelys is the oldest known turtle to have been discovered. It was first described from three 220 million year-old specimens excavated in Upper Triassic rocks in Guizhou, China.

As a primitive turtle, Odontochelys differed from modern turtles in several ways. Modern turtles possess a horny beak without any teeth in their mouth. In contrast, Odontochelys fossils had teeth in their upper and lower jaws. 

One of the most striking features of turtles, both modern and prehistoric alike, are their dorsal shells, forming an armored carapace over the body of the animal. Odontochelys only had the bottom portion of a turtle's armor, the plastron. It did not yet have a solid carapace as most other turtles do. Instead of a solid carapace, Odontochelys had broadened ribs like those of modern turtle embryos that still have not started developing the ossified plates of a carapace.

In a comparison of skull proportions, the skull of Odontochelys is far more elongated in front of the eyes compared to other turtles. The tail of the prehistoric turtle was longer in proportion to its body than other turtles. In addition, the transverse processes found in the tail are not fused such as in later turtles. 

Taken together, these anatomical differences mean that Odontochelys has some of the most primitive features ever seen in a turtle and is somewhat of a transitional fossil. Some scientists, however, are skeptical of this idea. Reisz and Head suggest that Odontochelys does not represent a turtle with a partly evolved shell, but that it is a descendant of an older, land–living turtle, and that the shell became reversed. Such shells can be seen on modern turtles, like the leatherback turtles (the genus Dermochelys).

It is likely that Odontochelys was aquatic, as the fossil specimens were found in marine deposits full of  conodonts and ammonites. The primitive turtle swam in shallow marine waters close to shore.

The species' name, Odontochelys semitestacea literally means "toothed turtle with a half-shell" - an apt description of its most striking physical characteristics.

[[Band gap]]

CATEGORIES: Quantum mechanics

A band gap, also called a bandgap or energy gap, is an energy range in a solid where no electron states can exist. The term is used in solid-state physics and chemistry.

Band gaps can be found in insulators and semiconductors.  In graphs of the electronic band structure of solids, the band gap is the energy difference (in electron volts) between the top of the valence band and the bottom of the conduction band. This is the same as the energy needed to free an outer shell electron from its orbit about the nucleus to become a mobile charge carrier. The free electron is able to move freely within the solid material.  So the band gap is a major factor determining the electrical conductivity of a solid.  Substances with large band gaps are generally insulators, those with smaller band gaps are semiconductors. Conductors either have very small band gaps or no band gap if the energy levels of valence and conduction bands overlap.

[[Deal or No Deal (UK game show)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 British television series debuts, 2000s British television series, 2010s British television series, British television game shows, English-language television programs

Deal or No Deal is the British version of the game show franchise of the same name. It is presented by Noel Edmonds, and produced by Endemol. It began showing in 2005. Players can win £250,000 (US$388,800). The odds of winning it is only 4 in 1715 (1 in 429, or 2 in 858). This is because a player might take a offer from the banker.

The show is on Channel 4 at 4p.m. on weekdays. It runs for 60 minutes, including adverts.

[[Moves Like Jagger]]

CATEGORIES: Maroon 5 songs, Christina Aguilera songs, 2011 songs

"Moves Like Jagger" is a dance pop single released by American pop rock band Maroon 5 on June 22, 2011 internationally and digitally. The single features pop singer-songwriter Christina Aguilera and was produced by Shellback, Benny Blanco, and Ari Levine. The song was later put on the Maroon 5 album Hands All Over in July of 2011 for the re-release. The song peaked at number-one on the Billboard Hot 100 singles' chart for four weeks and number-one on the Billboard Digital Songs chart for three weeks. The song will not feature on the upcoming fourth studio album Overexposed, which is scheduled for release on June 26, 2012.

The song's lyrics refer to a male protagonist's ability to impress a female with his dance moves, which he compares to those of The Rolling Stones frontman Mick Jagger. The song received a positive critical appreciation, many of them complimented the vocal chemistry between Levine and Aguilera and labeled it "an irresistible summer hit".

[[David Walliams]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Actors from London, Actors from Surrey, British children's writers, British television producers, British television writers, Comedians from London, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, People with bipolar disorder, British swimmers, Writers from London, Writers from Surrey

David Edward Williams GBR (born 20 August 1971), known professionally as David Walliams, is a British actor, comedian and writer. He is known for his partnership with Matt Lucas on the TV sketch show Little Britain and its predecessor Rock Profile. More recently, he and Lucas wrote and starred in Come Fly with Me.

[[Luton]]

CATEGORIES: Luton

Luton is a large town in Bedfordshire, England. It is about 30 north of London. It is on the M1 motorway and has mainline trains from King's Cross and St Pancras stations. It is an industrial town which has diversified from its original base as a manufacturer of hats and cars. Its fine communications means it has many people who commute to work in London.  It has a population of 213,052 (mid-2019 estimate).

[[Superbase]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

In chemistry, a superbase is an extremely strong base. It is a compound that has a high affinity for protons.

Hydroxide ion is the strongest base possible in water (aqueous) solutions, but superbases are much stronger than aqueous bases.  Such bases are useful in organic synthesis and are fundamental to physical organic chemistry. 

Superbases have been described and used since the 1850s.  Reactions involving superbases often require special techniques since they are destroyed by water, carbon dioxide, and oxygen in the air. Inert atmosphere techniques and low temperatures minimize these side reactions.

[[Argyria]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems

Argyria is a medical condition caused by the exposure to silver. People with this condition may have a change in skin color to pale or "greyish".

[[Windows Task Manager]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Windows Task Manager is a task manager application. It is part of the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems. Windows Task Manager gives detailed information about computer performance and applications that are currently running. It also gives information about processes and CPU usage, commit charge and memory information, network activity and statistics, logged-in users, and system services. The application can be used to set process priorities, processor affinity, forcibly terminating (ending) processes. In Windows XP only, the application can be used to shut down, restart, hibernate or log off from Windows.

[[Chemical species]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

A chemical species is one of a group of atoms, molecules, molecular fragments, ions, etc., made to go through to a chemical process or to a measurement. Generally, a chemical species can be defined as an ensemble of chemically identical molecular entities that can explore the same set of molecular energy levels on a defined time scale. Chemists also use chemical species to mean a set of chemically identical atomic or molecular structural units in a solid array.

For example, when molecules of NaCl dissolve in water we don't really have any NaCl as such in the solution. We have Na+ and Cl- ions because NaCl dissociates. We say the species present in solution are Na+(aq) and Cl-(aq). In this case, the species present in solution are the ions. In other cases, where the molecules don't dissolve in water, we would have molecular species in solution rather than ionic species.

In supramolecular chemistry, chemical species are those supramolecular structures whose interactions and associations are brought about by forming or breaking intermolecular bonds. Studying these actions is the main topic of supramolecular chemistry. 

[[Task manager]]

CATEGORIES: Software

A task manager is a computer program that is used to show information about the processes and programs running on a computer. Task managers also show the general status of the computer. They can be used to terminate (end) processes and programs, as well as change the processes priority. An example of a task manager is Windows Task Manager.

[[Blind spot (vision)]]

CATEGORIES: Experiments, Vision

A blind spot is a part of the visual field our brains get no information from. It is the place in the visual field that corresponds to the lack of light-detecting photoreceptor cells where the optic nerve passes through the optic disc of the retina. Since there are no cells to detect light on the optic disc, a part of the field of vision is not perceived. The brain fills in with surrounding detail  with information from the other eye, so the blind spot is not normally perceived.

Although all vertebrates have this blind spot, cephalopod eyes, which are superficially similar, do not. In them, the optic nerve approaches the receptors from behind, so it does not create a break in the retina.

The first documented observation of the phenomenon was in the 1660s by Edme Mariotte in France. At the time it was generally thought that the point at which the optic nerve entered the eye should actually be the most sensitive portion of the retina; however, Mariotte's discovery disproved this theory.

[[Lo Barnechea]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Lo Barnechea is a commune and city of Santiago Province. According to the Chilean census in 2002, Lo Barnechea has an area of 1024 and 74,749 people live there.December 2011.

[[Incubus (1966 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 movies, American horror movies, Esperanto

Incubus is an American horror movie. It is black and white. It was released in 1966 and a restored copy of the movie was released in 2001. Leslie Stevens directed the movie and William Shatner starred in it. The actors in the movie did not speak in English. They spoke in Esperanto. The movie was called Inkubo in Esperanto. Incubus was lost for many years, but an old copy was found in France. The movie was filmed in 18 days in California during 1965. Incubus did not become popular and was only distributed in France. Some people believe the movie is cursed because of all of the bad things that happened to the actors and crew. Several of them died by murder or suicide, or had other bad things happen to them, after making the movie.

[[Supramolecular chemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

Supramolecular chemistry is area of chemistry that studies the relationship and linking molecules into bigger systems. It focuses on the chemical systems made up of a discrete number of assembled molecular subunits or components. The study of non-covalent interactions is crucial to understanding many biological processes from cell structure to vision that rely on these forces for structure and function. Biological systems are often the inspiration for supramolecular research.

[[Chondroitin sulfate]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Chondroitin sulfate is a sulfated glycosaminoglycan (GAG). It is a chain of alternating sugars (N-acetylgalactosamine and glucuronic acid). It is usually found attached to proteins as part of a proteoglycan. A chondroitin chain can have over 100 individual sugars, each of which can be sulfated in variable positions and quantities.  Chondroitin sulfate is an important structural component of cartilage and provides much of its resistance to compression. Along with glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate has become a widely used dietary supplement for treatment of osteoarthritis. It is commonly extracted from shark cartilage.

[[Red Bull X2010]]

CATEGORIES: Gran Turismo series

Red Bull X2010 is not a real car. It is a fictional car in the PlayStation 3 video game Gran Turismo 5 that can go over 400 km/h, and over 6G's. It laps the Nürburgring in less than 4 minutes.January 2012. Adrian Newey designed it

[[Ireland (disambiguation)]]

Ireland may refer to:

[[Banbasa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uttarakhand, Towns in India

Banbasa is the smallest town in Champawat district in Uttarakhand, India. The famous shri Purnagiri temple is only 35 km from here. It is near the Nepal border (Gaddachoki-Banbasa).

[[Velar consonant]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

A velar consonant is a consonant that is pronounced with the back part of the tongue against the soft palate, also known as the velum, which is the back part of the roof of the mouth. Velar consonants in English are k, g and ŋ. The consonant k is the most common in all human languages. 

These are the velar consonants in the IPA.

[[George Church]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, American geneticists, Scientists from Boston, Massachusetts, Scientists from Florida, Living people

George Church (born August 28, 1954) is an American molecular geneticist. He was one of the people who set out to analyse the human genetic code, the sequence of genes in human DNA.

Church is Professor of Genetics at Harvard Medical School, Professor of Health Sciences and Technology at Harvard and MIT, and a core faculty member at the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering at Harvard University.

With Walter Gilbert he developed the first direct genomic sequencing method in 1984, and helped start the Human Genome Project in 1984 while he was a research scientist at newly formed Biogen Inc.

He invented ways of analysing huge amounts of chemical data, homologous recombination methods, and DNA array synthesizers. Automated sequencing & software in Genome Therapeutics Corp. gave the first commercial genome sequence, (the human pathogen, Helicobacter pylori) in 1994.

Church started the Personal Genome Project (PGP) in 2005, and in 2007 he founded the U.S. personal genomics company Knome (with Jorge Conde and Sundar Subramaniam).

Church does research on synthetic (artificial) biology and is director of the U.S. Department of Energy Center on Bioenergy at Harvard & MIT, and Director of the National Institutes of Health Center of Excellence in Genomic Science at Harvard.

He has been advisor to 22 companies. He co-founded Codon Devices, a biotech startup dedicated to synthetic biology. It produces DNA sequences to order. He co-founded LS9, which is focused on biofuels or renewable petroleum technologies.

In 2009 he founded Pathogenica, with Yemi Adesokan, in order to pioneer commercial applications for pathogen sequencing technology.

In September 2010, Dr. Church was honored for his work in genetics with the Mass High Tech All-Star Award. He is a senior editor for Molecular Systems Biology.

According to Forbes, Church suffers from narcolepsy.

[[Revolutions per minute]]

CATEGORIES: Units of measurement

Revolutions per minute, sometimes called RPM, is a measure of angular frequency. It means the number of times something spins in one minute.

For example, if a wheel spins one time in one second, it is doing 60 RPM, because there is 60 seconds in one minute.

[[Walter Gilbert]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, American physicists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, Harvard University alumni, Nobel Prize in Chemistry winners, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Boston, Massachusetts, Living people, American molecular biologists

Walter Gilbert (born March 21, 1932) is an American physicist, biochemist, molecular biology pioneer, and Nobel laureate. He helped develop DNA sequence analysis.

[[Optic chiasma]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain, Vision

The optic chiasma, or 'optic chiasm', is the part of the brain where the optic nerves (CN II) partially cross. The optic chiasm is located at the bottom of the brain immediately below the hypothalamus.

[[Chimaera (fish)]]

CATEGORIES: Cartilaginous fish

Chimaeras are cartilaginous fish in the order Chimaeriformes. They are sometimes known informally as 'ghost sharks'.

They may be the "oldest and most enigmatic groups of fishes alive today". Their closest living relatives are sharks, though in evolutionary terms they branched off from sharks nearly 400 million years ago and have remained isolated ever since.

At one time they were a diverse and abundant group, as shown by the fossil record. They are now found mainly to deep water. There are fifty living species in six genera and three families. Studying the evolution of these species has been problematic because there are few good fossils. DNA sequences have become the preferred approach to understanding speciation.

The order appeared about 420 million years ago during the Silurian. The three living families seem to have diverged during the late Jurassic to early Cretaceous (170–120 million years ago.

[[Mainframe computer]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

Mainframes (also called "big iron") are powerful computers used for large information processing jobs.  They are mainly used by government institutions and large companies for tasks such as census, industry and consumer statistics, enterprise resource planning, and financial transaction processing.  Mainframe computers are specially used as servers on the World Wide Web (WWW). They are distinct from supercomputers.

The term originally referred to the large cabinets that housed the central processing unit and main memory of early computers. Later the term was used to distinguish very big computers from less powerful ones ("minicomputers" or "personal computers").

[[Heavy Petting Zoo]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

Heavy Petting Zoo is the sixth studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX. Heavy Petting Zoo was released on January 31, 1996. The producers of the album were Ryan Greene and NOFX. The title of the album is a combination of the words heavy petting and petting zoo.

[[So Long and Thanks for All the Shoes]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

So Long and Thanks for All the Shoes is the seventh studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX. So Long and Thanks for All the Shoes was released on November 11, 1997. The producers of the album were Ryan Greene and Fat Mike. The title of the album comes from the title of the fourth book of Douglas Adams's The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish and the common practice of punk rock fans when they throw shoes lost by crowd surfers on stage.

[[Pump Up the Valuum]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

Pump Up the Valuum is the eighth studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX. Pump Up the Valuum was released on June 13, 2000. The producers of the album were Ryan Greene and Fat Mike. The title of the album is purposely spelled wrong to avoid a lawsuit with Valium and is a play on words.

[[Youth]]

CATEGORIES: Life

Youth is the opposite of elderly. When something is new, it can be called young. Sometimes "young" is only for living things, and things that are not alive are "new". The word youth is often used to describe young people from the beginning of the teen years to the beginning of adulthood.

Old can refer to someone or something's age.

Young can mean that something is current to date or well before its "best by" date. 

Different things lose their youth or grow old at different rates.  For example, some machines are only be considered young for roughly one year.  There are laws about the age of majority when young teenagers are legally treated as adults.  Even after that age, these youth may still be seen as immature.  This is because complete mental and emotional development is not done until around age 21, and because many young people have not yet had adult life experiences.  

For some people, youth is an obsession. They want to look young.  Because of this, they use various products like face cream and plastic surgery, to stop or slow their looking older.  The "Fountain of Youth" was a popular myth, and people thought that if you took water from the fountain, you would never be old.  Now however, we know that this was a myth, and it was not magical at all.

[[Simplified molecular input line entry specification]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical nomenclature, Cheminformatics

The simplified molecular input line entry specification or SMILES is a line notation for the chemical structure of molecules. It uses a short series ASCII characters to represent structures. Most molecule editor computer programs can draw a two-dimensional diagram or a three-dimensional model of a molecule based on its SMILES code.

In July 2006, the IUPAC introduced the InChI as a standard line notation for representing chemical structures.  People think that it is easier for humans to understand SMILES than InChI. Some chemists argue that SMILES is better than InChI because many different software programs support it. SMILES also has theoretical (for example, graph theory) backing.

[[Insulin resistance]]

CATEGORIES: Endocrine system, Health problems

Insulin resistance is a serious condition in which insulin becomes less able to lower the level of glucose (sugar) in the blood.  Usually, insulin helps sugar move out of the blood and into the body's cells.  In the cells, the body can use sugar to make energy.  If this does not happen correctly, too much sugar stays in the blood.  This is called hyperglycemia.  If the blood glucose level is above normal for a long time, this can lead to major health problems. 

Insulin resistance often causes certain types of diabetes mellitus, especially type 2 diabetes or latent autoimmune diabetes of adults. A condition called 'metabolic syndrome' is strongly tied to insulin resistance.

[[Cheminformatics]]

CATEGORIES: Computational chemistry, Cheminformatics

Cheminformatics (also known as chemoinformatics and chemical informatics) is the study of large amounts of chemical information. It is done mostly with the help of computers. These tools are used by pharmaceutical companies to discovery new drugs.

Cheminformatics uses computer science and information technology to help solve chemistry problems. Cheminformatics deals with algorithms, databases and information systems, web technologies, artificial intelligence and soft computing, information and computation theory, software engineering, data mining, image processing, modeling and simulation, signal processing, discrete mathematics, control and system theory, circuit theory, and statistics, for generating new knowledge of chemistry.

[[The War on Errorism]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

The War on Errorism is the ninth studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX. The War on Errorism was released on May 6, 2003. The producers of the album were Ryan Greene and Fat Mike. The album pokes fun at former U.S. president George W. Bush and criticizes him and his policies.

[[Wolves in Wolves' Clothing]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

Wolves in Wolves' Clothing is the tenth studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX. Wolves in Wolves' Clothing was released on April 18, 2006. The producers of the album were Bill Stevenson, Jason Livermore and Fat Mike. The first 1062 vinyl copies of Wolves in Wolves' Clothing were pressed yellow/green vinyl.

[[Coaster (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, NOFX albums, Punk albums

Coaster is the tenth studio album by American punk rock band, NOFX. Coaster was released on April 28, 2009. The producer of the album was Bill Stevenson. The album was released as Frisbee on vinyl.

[[2Pacalypse Now]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 albums, Debut albums, Tupac Shakur albums, Hip hop albums

2Pacalypse Now is the first studio album by American rapper, Tupac Shakur. 2Pacalypse Now was released on November 12, 1991. Many other rap artist have seen the album as a source of inspiration. The song "I Don't Give a Fuck" was featured in the 2004 video game, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.

[[Strictly 4 My N.I.G.G.A.Z.]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 albums, Tupac Shakur albums

Strictly 4 My N.I.G.G.A.Z. is the second studio album by American rapper, Tupac Shakur. Strictly 4 My N.I.G.G.A.Z. was released on February 16, 1993. The album is 2Pac's tenth biggest selling album with 1,366,000 units moved to date.

[[Alexander Oparin]]

CATEGORIES: Russian scientists, 1894 births, 1980 deaths, Biochemists

Alexander Ivanovich Oparin  (Uglich, Russia, 2 March – Moscow, 21 April 1980) was a Soviet biochemist.

He was notable for his ideas on the origin of life, and for writing an early book The Origin of Life. One of his ideas was that oxygen would tend to destroy organic molecules essential for the evolution of early life. It was later found that the earth's atmosphere at first had almost no oxygen in it.

He also studied the biochemistry of plants, and enzyme reactions in plant cells. He developed the foundations for industrial biochemistry in the USSR.

[[Sy Oliver]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1988 deaths, American jazz musicians, American composers, Jazz composers, Trumpeters, Musicians from Michigan, People from Battle Creek, Michigan

Melvin "Sy" Oliver (17 December 1910 in Battle Creek, Michigan – 28 May 1988 in New York City) was a jazz arranger, trumpeter, composer, singer, and band leader. His mother was a piano teacher and his father was a multi-instrumentalist who made a name for himself demonstrating saxophones at a time that instrument was little used outside of marching bands.

Oliver left home at 17 to play with Zack Whyte and his Chocolate Beau Brummels and later with Alphonse Trent. He sang and played trumpet with these bands, becoming known for his "growling" horn playing.

Sy arranged and conducted many songs for Ella Fitzgerald from her years with Decca Records. As a composer, one of his most famous songs was "T'ain't What You Do (It's the Way That You Do It)" which he co-wrote with Trummy Young.

He joined Jimmie Lunceford's band in 1933 and contributed many hit arrangements to the band, including "My Blue Heaven" and "Ain't She Sweet". In 1939, he became one of the first African Americans with a prominent role in a white band when he joined Tommy Dorsey as an arranger, though he stopped playing trumpet at that time. (Fletcher Henderson joined the Benny Goodman orchestra as the arranger in the same year.) He led the transition of the Dorsey band from Dixieland to modern big band. His joining was instrumental in Buddy Rich's decision to join Dorsey. His arrangement of "On the Sunny Side of the Street" was a big hit for Dorsey, as were his own compositions "Yes Indeed" (a gospel-jazz tune that was later recorded by Ray Charles), "Opus One," "The Minor is Muggin'," "T.D.'s Boogie Woogie," and "Well, Git It."

After leaving Dorsey, Oliver continued working as a free-lance arranger. One of his more successful such efforts was the Frank Sinatra album I Remember Tommy, a combined tribute to each man's former boss---and as music director for Decca Records.

In later years, up until 1980, he led his own jazz band, for which he took up the trumpet again.

[[Aristolochiaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Piperales

The Aristolochiaceae, or Birthwort family, are a family of flowering plants with seven genera and about 400 species belonging to the order Piperales. The type genus is Aristolochia L.

[[Not Myself Tonight]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Christina Aguilera songs

"Not Myself Tonight" is a song by American singer Christina Aguilera, from her 2010 album Bionic. The song was written by Jamal "Polow da Don" Jones, Ester Dean, Jason Perry and Greg Curtis. It is a uptempo electropop song that using synthesizers and tribal drums.January 2012 Its lyrics refer to adopting a different persona on the dancefloor. It was released on April 13, 2010 as the first single from Aguilera's Bionic album. "Not Myself Tonight" was a hit single in Asian area.January 2012

[[Whistler]]

Whistler may mean:

[[Context (language)]]

CATEGORIES: Human communication, Linguistics

Context in language is what surrounds a word or piece of text. In order to understand what words mean, we have to know something about the situation where they are used. In print, a word, phrase or sentence has other text around it. This helps the reader to understand the piece in question. In speech, the social setting as well as the language help the listener to understand what is said.

Something like: "You can take it whenever you need to" might refer to almost anything. However, if it is said by a doctor to a patient, then the context is clear, and the listener can guess it refers to some kind of medication. So the context is what goes with a text (written or spoken) which helps the reader (or listener) understand the communication.

However, to understand what is really going on, we may need to go beyond what is said or written. A simple phrase, such as "I hate you" can mean exactly the opposite. All kinds of clues are needed to understand what has been said. Along with verbal communication comes non-verbal communication.

[[2011 Sindh floods]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 disasters in Asia, 2010s floods, 2010s in Pakistan, August 2011 events, Floods in Pakistan, History of Sindh, September events

The 2011 Sindh floods occurred in August and September 2011 because of a lot of rain in Sindh, Eastern Balochistan, and Southern Punjab, Pakistan. The floods caused a lot of damage. 270 people were killed, and 5.3 million people were affected. 1.2 million homes were flooded. At least 1.7 million acres of land were ruined by the flooding. It was the worst flooding in Pakistan since the 2010 floods.

[[Being (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums

Being is a mini-album by singer Ella Koon. The album was made by well known music producers Eric Kwok (Chinese) and Yanagiman (Japanese). 

Popular hits include: "Coral Island" (珊瑚島), "Incomplete Thoughts" (殘念), and "Silent Paper Kite" (響不了的紙鳶).

[[Take a Shine To...]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums

Take a Shine To... is an album by Ella Koon, released in July 2011. It was released a year after her well-received 2010 mini-album Being. Hit songs include Ella’s first self-composed song “Reluctant to Part (依依)”, which is produced by hitmaker Chiu Tsang Hei with lyrics penned by Siu Hak. The album also contains RICOH camera CM song “A Moment of Interaction (一刻感應)” and the latest plug “Let Him Go (由他去)”.

[[Jungle green]]

Jungle green is a color that is a rich tone of medium green.

The specific tone of the color jungle green called "jungle green" by Crayola was formulated by Crayola in 1990.

The first recorded use of jungle green as a color name in English was in 1926. 

[[Rohypnol]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Drugs used in psychiatry

Rohypnol is the common name for a drug or Benzodiazepine called flunitrazepam. A slang term for it is roofies. The drug is sold legally, and it has many medical uses. It is a strong hypnotic (a drug that causes sleep); a sedative (causing relaxation and sleepiness); an anticonvulsant (fighting seizures); an anxiolytic (relieving anxiety); amnestic (causing forgetfulness); and skeletal muscle relaxant.  Most often, it is used as a treatment for sleep disorders like insomnia. It is thought to be one of the most effective hypnotic medications.

Like other hypnotics, flunitrazepam should be used only on a short-term basis or in those with serious insomnia on an occasional basis.

Flunitrazepam is often called a date rape drug because it is very powerful, has strong effects, and can cause strong amnesia (causing a person to forget what happened after taking the drug). 

[[Sponge cake]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes

Sponge cake is a cake made of flour (usually wheat flour), sugar, and eggs.

[[Metabolic syndrome]]

CATEGORIES: Syndromes

Metabolic syndrome is a combination of several medical issues. They increase the risk for heart disease, stroke and type 2 diabetes. 25% of people of the United States have metabolic syndrome. 

The term "metabolic syndrome" dates back to at least the late 1950s, but came into common usage in the late 1970s to describe various associations of risk factors with diabetes mellitus that had been noted as early as the 1920s.

[[Me Against the World]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 albums, Tupac Shakur albums

Me Against the World is the third studio album by American rapper, Tupac Shakur. Me Against the World was released on March 14, 1995. The album was released when 2Pac was imprisoned and it debuted at #1 on the Billboard 200. By having this happen, it made him the first artist to have an album debut at number one on Billboard 200 while serving time in prison. It was nominated for Best Rap Album at the 1996 Grammy Awards. The album's first single "Dear Mama" was nominated for Best Rap Solo Performance.

[[Palatal consonant]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

A palatal consonant is a consonant that is pronounced with the body (the middle part) of the tongue against the hard palate (which is the middle part of the roof of the mouth). There is only one palatal consonant in English which is j, which is the sound for "y" in the English word "yes". The most common palatal consonant used in the world is j.

[[Approximant consonant]]

CATEGORIES: Pronunciation

An approximant consonant is a consonant that sounds in some ways like a vowel. For example, lateral approximants like the sound for "l" in the English word "like", the sound for "r" in the English word "right", and semivowels like the sound for "y" in "yes" and the sound for "w" in "wet" are all approximants. These sounds are pronounced by bringing two parts of the mouth, for example the tongue and the roof of the mouth, close to each other. However, it is not close enough to cause the air to be blocked, like in a fricative consonant. Also, the parts are not far apart enough to become a vowel.

[[All Eyez on Me]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 albums, Tupac Shakur albums

All Eyez on Me is the fourth studio album by American rapper, Tupac Shakur. All Eyez on Me was released on February 13, 1996. The album was certified 5× Platinum after just 2 months in April 1996 and 9× platinum in 1998. The album also featured the Billboard Hot 100 number one singles "How Do U Want It" and "California Love".

[[Windows 8]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft operating systems

Windows 8 is a version of Microsoft's Windows computer operating system. Windows 8 was released everywhere on October 26, 2012. The president of the Windows Division, Steven Sinofsky, said: "With this system we shall make the biggest change from Windows 95", as they have removed the "Start" button and designed a new tile-based user interface to replace the "Start" menu (which first appeared in Windows 95).

Several versions of Windows 8 were made available to software developers well before the final release. The first of these, the Developer Preview, came out in September 2011. On February 29, 2012, Microsoft released a beta version of Windows 8.0 known as the Consumer Preview. Anyone could register online to download this version for free. After the Consumer Preview, a final preview named "Release Preview" was released on May 31, 2012. 

On October 26, 2012, Windows 8, as well as a version for devices using ARM processors, called Windows RT and unable to run most Windows applications, both became available to the general public. On the same day, Microsoft also put new devices running Windows 8, including its newly-created Surface tablets up for sale in stores and online.

An update for Windows 8 was released on October 17, 2013, and it is called Windows 8.1. Windows 8.1 returns the normal "Start" button to the taskbar. During development, Windows 8.1 was known as "Blue".

Windows 10 was made to replace Windows 8, and it came out on July 29, 2015. Users who owned Windows 7 with Service Pack 1 installed, or Windows 8.1, were able to upgrade to Windows 10 for free until July 29, 2016.

[[Windows To Go]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft Windows software

Windows To Go is a feature in Windows 8 and later that allows the entire system to run from a USB flash drive or external USB Hard Drive.

In September 2011 Microsoft officially announced Windows To Go at the Build Conference, and gave out bootable USB Flash drives. These could hold 32GB of information. They also had Windows To Go pre-installed.

[[Dardistan]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Pakistan, Geography of Afghanistan, Kashmir

Dardistan (Perso-Arabic: داردستان) is a name for the northern Pakistan, and Kashmir in the upper Indus valleys and parts of north-eastern Afghanistan. It is inhabited by the Dards speaking Dardic languages.February 2012

[[Lahore Stock Exchange]]

CATEGORIES: Stock exchanges, Economy of Pakistan, Lahore

Lahore Stock Exchange (Guarantee) Limited (LSE) is Pakistan's second-largest stock exchange after the Karachi Stock Exchange.December 2011 It is in Lahore.

[[M25 motorway]]

CATEGORIES: Motorways in England

The M25 motorway, or London Orbital, is a 117 orbital motorway around Greater London.

The motorway was first suggested early in the 20th century, and a few sections were built in the early 1970s. The M25 was completed in 1986: is one of the world's longest orbital roads.

It is one of the busiest and most congested parts of the British motorway network. 196,000 vehicles were recorded in a single day near London Heathrow Airport. The M25 is a crucial link between the four main London airports: Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted and Luton.

Bearing in mind that no motorways go through the centre of London, the M25 is a main route connecting north with south, and east with the west of England.

The motorway was originally built with only six lanes (three each way), despite research which suggested eight lanes were necessary. Now a fourth lane exists over most of the motorway, and more in special sections (see diagram). Plans were scaled back in 2009 in response to rising costs, but work is still going on.

[[Harold Urey]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1981 deaths, Nobel Prize in Chemistry winners, Foreign Members of the Royal Society, American chemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Indiana, Columbia University faculty

Harold Clayton Urey (April 29, 1893 – January 5, 1981) was an American physical chemist. His pioneering work on isotopes earned him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1934. He played a significant role in the development of the atom bomb, and he had ideas on the development of organic life from non-living matter.

[[German Reich]]

CATEGORIES: German Reich

German Reich (Deutsches Reich) was the official name for Germany from 1871 to 1945. 

The history of Germany during the time of the German Reich is usually broken into three parts:

Adolf Hitler called as NCR Hitler.

[[Trịnh Công Sơn]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2001 deaths

Trịnh Công Sơn (February 28, 1939 – April 1, 2001) was a Vietnamese composer, musician, painter and songwriter. 

He, along with Pham Duy and Van Cao, is widely considered one of the three salient figures of modern (non-classical) Vietnamese musicFebruary 2012.

[[Constituent Assembly of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Pakistan, Parliaments, Pakistan Movement

The Constituent Assembly of Pakistan was Pakistan's first parliament and first met on 10 August, 1947. The next day Quaid-i-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah (1876-1948), was elected as the President of the assembly and the new national flag was approved. On 14 August, 1947, Jinnah gave a speech which outlined the important principles of the future government of an independent Pakistan. Jinnah was chosen as the first Governor-General of Pakistan. The assembly's main task was to write a new constitution for Pakistan.

This was a difficult task, however the assembly did agree on the "Objective Resolution" on 12 March, 1949. A special committee of 24 members of the Constituent Assembly worked on a constitution based on the ideas in the Objective Resolution. The Governor-General, Ghulam Muhammad, shut down the assembly on 24 October 1954, before the draft constitution could be presented. The President of the Assembly, took legal action as he believed that shutting down the assembly was illegal. He lost the case in the Federal Court.

A second Constituent Assembly of Pakistan was formed on 28 May 1955. They wrote the new constitution which came into force on 23 March 1956. 

[[Piranha 3D]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 movies, 2010 3D movies, Movies about animals, English-language movies

Piranha 3D is a 3-D movie directed by Alexandre Aja. It stars Elisabeth Shue, Steven R. McQueen, Jessica Szohr, Jerry O'Connell, Kelly Brook, Riley Steele, Gianna Michaels, Christopher Lloyd, Ving Rhames, Roberto Chavira, Dina Meyer, Sage Ryan, Brooklynn Proulx and special starring Richard Dreyfuss.

[[You Lost Me]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Christina Aguilera songs, Pop ballads, Songs about infidelity

"You Lost Me" is a song by American singer Christina Aguilera, from her 2010 album Bionic. The song was written by Aguilera, Samuel Dixon and Sia Furler.January 2012 It's a slow melody pop-ballad song that talks about a cheating boyfriend, who has left the world in Aguilera's view as "infected". It was released on July 6, 2010 as the third single from Aguilera's Bionic album.

[[Metric system]]

CATEGORIES: Measurement, Systems

The metric system is a number of different systems of measurement with length based on the metre, mass on the gram, and volume on the litre. This system is used around the world. It was developed in France and first introduced there in 1795, 2 years after the execution of Louis XVI. The metric units are based on decimal groups (multiples of ten). At first the metric system was based on two quantities: length and weight. The basic units were called the metre and the gramme.

In 1866, the United States started to use the metric system, and is widely used except by the public. By 1875, many countries in Europe and in Latin America had changed to using the metric system. In 1875, seventeen countries signed the Metre Convention agreeing to share responsibility for defining and managing the metre and kilogram standards. The prototype copies of the metre and of the kilogram were called the "international prototype metre" and "international prototype kilogram". A new organization called the International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM) was set up. The international prototype metre and kilogram were kept at the BIPM headquarters. In 1960, the rules for the metric system were revised. The revised system was called the "International System of Units" (which is often called "SI" for short). The definition of SI also included rules for writing SI quantities. These rules are the same for all countries. In the 1970s, many people in the United Kingdom and the rest of the Commonwealth started using the metric system in their places of work.

[[Piranha 3DD]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 movies, Movies about animals, English-language movies

Piranha 3DD is a 2011 movie directed by John Gulager taken from the subject by Alexandre Aja.

The movie is the sequel to Piranha 3D. It stars Ving Rhames and Christopher Lloyd.

[[Matisyahu]]

CATEGORIES: American rap musicians from Pennsylvania, American rock musicians, Reggae musicians, Singers from Pennsylvania, 1979 births, Living people

Matthew Paul Miller (born June 30, 1979), better known by his name and stage name Matisyahu, is a Jewish-American singer. He combines elements of reggae, rap, beatbox, alternative rock and Hasidic themes in his music.

[[Tom Waits]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles County, California, American movie actors, Musicians from Los Angeles County, California, People from Pomona, California, Singers from Los Angeles County, California

Thomas Alan "Tom" Waits (born December 7, 1949) is an American singer, songwriter, actor, and composer. He is  known for his distinct voice, electric instrumentation, and occasionally surreal lyrics. His work often includes elements of the blues, jazz, and musical theatre.

[[Allama Iqbal International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Pakistan

Allama Iqbal International Airport in Lahore is the second-largest civil airport in Pakistan, serving the capital of Punjab province. It has both international and domestic air traffic. It was first called the  Lahore International Airport, but it was renamed in 2003 for Allama Sir Muhammad Iqbal. He was the Islamic poet-philosopher who was a major supporter for the creation of the state of Pakistan. The airport can has parking for 20 aircraft, and the airport terminal can handle up to five million passengers a year.

[[Woolly rhinoceros]]

CATEGORIES: Rhinoceroses

The woolly rhinoceros (Coelodonta antiquitatis) was a large mammal species of rhinoceros, now extinct. It was widespread throughout the tundra of northern Eurasia during the Pleistocene epoch, about 1.8 million years ago until about 10,000 years ago (the end of the last ice age). 

Recently, the earliest known woolly rhino fossil was discovered from 3.6 million years in the Himalayas on the cold Tibetan plateau. It lived there during a period of general climate warmth around the earth. It is believed that they migrated from there to other parts when the ice age developed.

[[Woolly mammoth]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct elephants, Mammals of North America

The woolly mammoth (Mammuthus primigenius), is a species of mammoth. They were large elephants which lived during the ice ages. The animal is known from bones and frozen carcasses from northern North America and northern Eurasia. The best preserved carcasses were found in Siberia. They are perhaps the most well known species of mammoth.

This mammoth species was first recorded in deposits of a former glaciation in Eurasia, perhaps 150,000 years ago.

The woolly mammoth coexisted with early humans, who hunted them. Their bones and tusks were used as tools, and dwellings. Mammoths were also hunted for food. The species disappeared from most of its range at the end of the Pleistocene (10,000 years ago), with a dwarfed race still living on Wrangel Island until about 1700 BC.

Cave paintings of the woolly mammoth have been found in caves in France and Spain. Woolly mammoths are closely related to the Asian Elephant. 

[[Rival (disambiguation)]]

Rival or rivals may refer to:

[[Renewable energy in Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan, Renewable energy

Renewable energy in Pakistan is mostly solar and wind power.  It is a relatively underdeveloped sector. In recent years, environmental groups and the authorities explored renewable energy resources for energy production. New renewable energy projects were designed to address the energy crises and power shortages affecting the country.

[[Welfare]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights, Welfare economics

Welfare is an idea from economics and Social Security. The idea is that everyone should have a minimal living standard. People who cannot reach this standard will be supported, usually by the state. Using welfare, everyone has their basic needs covered. This idea is different from the idea of charity.

Welfare can take different forms:

Welfare money is given by the government, charities, and other groups of people to help homeless, old, illness, poor, and disabled people (people who cannot help themselves), and also helps children (child support).

Welfare can also be called the well-being of someone or a group of people: their happiness, health, safety, and fortune.

In countries like Germany, Japan, United States, Sweden, and France, government welfare also is used to help the needy.

[[Independent politician]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

In politics, an Independent is someone who is NOT a member of any political party. Independents can have a centrist opinion on what they want to do when they are elected, or they may have extreme opinions that are very different from what other parties have. Also, there are some politicians who may choose to contest an election by themselves as an Independent candidate even if they used to be a member of a political party, because they do not want to follow their party's political ideology. Some Independents may create their own political party just to take part in an election.

[[RNE]]

CATEGORIES: Radio

RNE (Spanish: "Radio Nacional de España") (English: "Spain's National Radio") is a Spanish public radio broadcaster. Since 1973 it's integrated on the RTVE group. Now, RNE is made up of 6 radio channels:

[[Cleveland Barons (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, Sports in Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 establishments in the United States, 1978 disestablishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Ohio

The Cleveland Barons were a professional ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL) from 1976–78. They had been the California Golden Seals, which had played in Oakland since 1967. The franchise was then moved to Cleveland. After only two seasons, the team joined with the Minnesota North Stars.

[[Colorado Rockies (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, Sports in Denver, Colorado, 1976 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Colorado, 1982 disestablishments in the United States

The Colorado Rockies were an American professional ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They played in Denver, Colorado, from 1976 to 1982. They had been the Kansas City Scouts, a 1974 expansion team, until the franchise was moved to Denver. In 1982 the franchise again moved to East Rutherford, New Jersey, in 1982 and was renamed the New Jersey Devils. The NHL did not return to Denver until 1995, when the Quebec Nordiques moved to become the Colorado Avalanche.

[[Hamilton Tigers]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, Sport in Hamilton, 1920 establishments, 1925 disestablishments, 1920s establishments in Canada, 20th century disestablishments in Canada

The Hamilton Tigers were a professional ice hockey team, and a member of the National Hockey League (NHL). They were based in Hamilton, Ontario, and played from 1920–1925. The Tigers were formed from the sale of the Quebec Bulldogs NHL franchise. After years of struggling, the team finished first in the league in the 1924-25 NHL season. However, after a players' strike at the end of the season the team broke up. 

[[Montreal Maroons]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, 1924 establishments in North America, 1920s establishments in Canada, 1938 disestablishments, 20th century disestablishments in Canada

The Montreal Maroons (officially the Montreal Professional Hockey Club) was a professional ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They played in the NHL from 1924 to 1938, winning the Stanley Cup in 1926 and 1935.

[[Ottawa Senators (original)]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, 1883 establishments, 1880s establishments in Canada, 1954 disestablishments, 20th century disestablishments in Canada

The Ottawa Senators were an amateur, and later, professional, ice hockey team based in Ottawa, Canada which existed from 1883 to 1954. The club was the first hockey club in Ontario, a founding member of the National Hockey League (NHL) and played in the NHL from 1917 until 1934. The club, which was officially the Ottawa Hockey Club (Ottawa HC), was known by several nicknames, including the Generals in the 1890s, the Silver Seven from 1903 to 1907 and the Senators dating from 1908.

[[Pittsburgh Pirates (NHL)]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, 1925 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Pennsylvania

The Pittsburgh Pirates were an American professional ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL), based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania from 1925–26 to 1929–30. The nickname comes from the baseball team also based in the city. For the 1930–31 season the team moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and played one season as the Philadelphia Quakers.

[[St. Louis Eagles]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, 1934 establishments in the United States, 1935 disestablishments, 20th-century establishments in Missouri, 1930s disestablishments in the United States, 20th-century disestablishments in Missouri

The St. Louis Eagles were a professional ice hockey team and a former member of the National Hockey League (NHL) based in St. Louis, Missouri. The Eagles lasted for only one year, playing in the 1934–35 NHL season.

[[Reconciliation]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

In Christian theology, reconciliation is the process of repairing one's relationship with God. This comes after atonement. It is a part of salvation. Reconciliation is the end of the estrangement, caused by original sin, between God and his people. John Calvin describes reconciliation as the peace between humanity and God that results from atoning for religious sin.

[[Safi Airways]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia, Kabul

Safi Airways Co. (خطوط هوایی صافی) is an Afghan airline. The airline Safi Airways - IATA-Code 4Q - was started in 2006 by Rahim Safi, an Afghan Businessman. This private airline has its head office in the Safi Airline Center in Shahr-e-Naw, Kabul and an administrative office in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.

[[Slovak Extraliga]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues

The Slovak Extraliga is the top level ice hockey league in Slovakia. It was founded in 1993, the same year that Slovakia became and independent country. 

[[Swedish Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 establishments in Europe, Ice hockey in Sweden, Ice hockey leagues, 1970s establishments in Sweden

The Swedish Hockey League (SHL), Svenska hockeyligan is a professional ice hockey league in the country of Sweden. It was founded in 1975 as the Swedish Elite League Elitserien i ishockey, and is the top level of ice hockey in Sweden. The name was changed in June 2013.

[[Victorious]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 American television series debuts, 2013 American television series endings, 2010s American sitcoms, American teen comedy television series, High school television series, Nickelodeon television series, Television series about friendship, Television series about sisters, Television series set in Los Angeles, California, English-language television programs

Victorious (stylized as VIC'TORi'OUS) is an American sitcom created by Dan Schneider that originally aired on Nickelodeon from March 27, 2010, to February 2, 2013. The show revolves around aspiring singer Tori Vega (portrayed by Victoria Justice), a teenager who attends a performing arts high school called Hollywood Arts High School, after taking her older sister Trina's (Daniella Monet) place in a showcase while getting into screwball situations on a daily basis. On her first day at Hollywood Arts, she meets Andre Harris (Leon Thomas III), Robbie Shapiro (Matt Bennett), Rex Powers (Robbie's puppet), Jade West (Elizabeth Gillies), Cat Valentine (Ariana Grande), and Beck Oliver (Avan Jogia). 

[[Samanid dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: History of Afghanistan, History of Pakistan, Royal dynasties

The Samani dynasty (سامانیان Sāmāniyān), also called the Samanid Empire, or simply Samanids (819–999) was a Tajik state and empire in Central Asia and Greater Iran. It is named after its founder Saman Khuda, who converted to Sunni Islam. He had been born a member of the Zoroastrian nobility. It was the first Persian empire in Greater Iran and Central Asia after the Sassanid Persian empire collapsed because of the Arab conquest.

[[Prime Minister of Singapore]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Singapore, Political office-holders in Singapore, Lists of prime ministers

The Prime Minister of the Republic of Singapore is the head of the government of the Republic of Singapore. The President of Singapore chooses as Prime Minister a Member of Parliament (MP) who, he thinks, will have the highest chance of being supported by a majority of MPs.

The first time there was a Prime Minister was in 1959 and it was chosen by the Governor of Singapore and later the Yang di-Pertuan Negara (head of state), when Singapore could have the power to govern as the State of Singapore inside the British Empire. The title of Prime Minister did not change after Singapore merged with the Federation of Malaya, Sarawak and British North Borneo, while Singapore was a state in the Federation of Malaysia from 1963 to 1965, and after independence in 1965.

Lee Kuan Yew was the first prime minister of Singapore from 1959 to 1990 and retired on 26 November 1990. Goh Chok Tong took over Lee Kuan Yew, while Lee Kuan Yew  was given the job of Senior Minister in the Prime Minister's Office. Goh Chok Tong retired on 12 August 2004 and was replaced by Lee Kuan Yew's son Lee Hsien Loong. Goh was given the job of Senior Minister, and the older Lee the job of Minister Mentor.

[[Rhipidistia]]

CATEGORIES: Lobe-finned fish

The Rhipidistia are lobe-finned fish, and include the ancestors of the tetrapods. The Rhipidistia are a subgroup of Sarcopterygii which includes the lungfish (Dipnoi) and the tetrapodomorphs.

As cladistic understanding of the vertebrates has improved over the last few decades a monophyletic Rhipidistia is now understood to include the ancestor of the whole Tetrapoda. 

[[Elisheva]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament people, Ancient Israeli people

Elisheva or Elisheba was a wife of the priest Aaron. They are mentioned in the Bible. Aaron was a brother of the prophet Moses.

She is known as Alishahda in Islam.

Her father was Amminadab and her brother was Nahshon.

Her sons were Nadab and Abihu, Ithamar and Eleazar.

She was buried in the Tomb of the Matriarchs.

[[Amminadab]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament people, Ancient Israeli people

Amminadab was a man mentioned in the Bible as an ancestor of Jesus.

He was a son of Ram and father of Nahshon and Elisheva, who married priest Aaron.

Laurence Gardner proposed Amminadab to be pharaoh Akhenaten.

[[Moose Jaw Warriors]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 establishments, Canadian Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in Saskatchewan, Western Hockey League

The Moose Jaw Warriors is a Canadian professional ice hockey team that began playing in 1984. They currently play in the Western Hockey League. They play their home games in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan at the Mosaic Place. They have reached the WHL finals once in 2006 but were swept in 4 games by the Vancouver Giants. They were originally known as the Winnipeg Warriors until relocating to Moose Jaw in 1984.

[[Ice hockey at the Olympic Games]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey competitions, Winter Olympic sports

Ice hockey tournaments have been played at the Olympic Games since 1920. The men's tournament was first played at the 1920 Summer Olympics, but was moved to the Winter Olympics in 1924. The women's tournament was first held at the 1998 Winter Olympics. Canada holds the record for the most Gold medals, with 11. 

[[Ice Hockey World Championships]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey competitions

The Ice Hockey World Championships are a yearly ice hockey tournament organized by the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF). The World Championships were first officially held at the 1920 Summer Olympics. The IIHF was created in 1908 while the European Championships, the predecessor to the World Championships, were first held in 1910. The tournament held at the 1920 Summer Olympics is recognized as the first Ice Hockey World Championship. Between 1920 and 1968, the Olympic hockey tournament was also considered the World Championship for that year. The first World Championship that was held as an individual event was in 1930.

[[Tangier]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 establishments, Phoenician colonies, Cities in Morocco

Tangier, also Tangiers (Tifinagh: ⵜⴰⵏⵊⴰ Tanja, archaic Berber name: Tingi, Arabic: طنجة Ṭanja) is a city in northern Morocco with a population of about 700,000 (2008 census). It lies on the North African coast at the western entrance to the Strait of Gibraltar where the Mediterranean meets the Atlantic Ocean off Cape Spartel. It is the capital of the Tangier-Tetouan Region and of the Tangier-Asilah prefecture of Morocco near the Spanish border. 

The history of Tangier is very rich due to the historical presence of many civilizations and cultures starting from the 5th century BC. Between the period of being a Phoenician town to the independence era around the 1950s, Tangier was a place—and, sometimes a refuge—for many cultures. However, it was not until 1923 that Tangier was attributed an international status by foreign colonial powers, thus becoming a destination for many Europeans, Americans and Indians alike.

The city is currently undergoing rapid development and modernization. Projects include new 5-star hotels along the bay, a modern business district called Tangier City Centre, a new airport terminal and a new soccer stadium. Tangier's economy is also set to benefit greatly from the new Tanger-Med port.

[[Tunisair]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in  Tunisia, 1948 establishments, Airlines of Africa, Tunis

Société Tunisienne de l'Air, or Tunisair (الخطوط التونسية) is the flag carrier airline of Tunisia.  Formed in 1948, it operates scheduled international services to European, African and Middle Eastern destinations.  Its main base is Tunis-Carthage International Airport. The airline's head office is in Tunis, near Tunis Airport.

[[Senior Minister]]

CATEGORIES: Political office-holders in Singapore

Senior Minister (国务资政, used to be called 内阁资政／內閣資政 before 12 August 2004, Menteri Kanan) is a political office in the Prime Minister's Office. The job of Senior Minister in the political system of Singapore is taken by a prime minister or senior cabinet minister when he or she retires from that office, but still can help the government with their long experience. However, some opposition critics say that the job of senior minister shows no respect for the political opposition in Singapore and the reliance of Singapore on a dominant-party system.

The last Senior Ministers of Singapore were Goh Chok Tong, the second Prime Minister of Singapore and S Jayakumar, former Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore. This job has been held by Goh since August 12, 2004, and used to be held by Lee Kuan Yew, the first Prime Minister of Singapore, from November 28, 1990, until August 12, 2004, and S. Rajaratnam, former Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore, from 1985 to 1988. After Goh Chok Tong became Senior Minister, a new ministerial job, the Minister Mentor, was created and given to Lee Kuan Yew. On 26 March 2009, Prime Minister of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong announced that the Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore (DPM) S. Jayakumar would let go of his job as the DPM and become Senior Minister in the Prime Minister's Office. 

In the the 2011 general elections, S. Jayakumar did not contest in the election and retired from politics.

After the elections, the Senior Minister position was renamed to Emeritus Senior Minister and is still headed by former prime minister Goh Chok Tong.

[[Edifício Altino Arantes]]

CATEGORIES: São Paulo, Skyscrapers in Brazil, 1947 establishments in South America, 1940s establishments in Brazil

Edifício Altino Arantes  is a skyscraper in São Paulo, Brazil. It is 161 meters (528 feet) tall and has 36 floors. It was built in 1947.

[[1918–1920 unrest in Split]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Italy, History of Croatia

In 1918–1920, a series of incidents took place at Spalato (now Split) between Dalmatian Italians and local South Slavs fighting -with ethnic disturbances, revolts and bloody clashes- for the control of the city.

[[Decagon]]

CATEGORIES: Polygons

A decagon is a shape with 10 sides and 10 corners.

[[To a Mouse]]

CATEGORIES: 18th-century British poems, 1785, 1780s works

"To a Mouse, on Turning Her Up in Her Nest with the Plough" (also known as just "To a Mouse") is a poem written by Robert Burns. The poem was written in Scots in 1785. "To a Mouse" is about a young man who accidentally overturns the soil of a mouse’s nest.

John Steinbeck named his novella Of Mice and Men after a line in the seventh stanza of the poem. This line is: "The best laid schemes o' mice an' men / Gang aft agley" ("The best laid schemes of mice and men / Go often askew"). 

[[Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers]]

CATEGORIES: Tom Petty, American rock bands, Blues bands, Musical groups from Florida, Warner Bros. Records artists

Tom Petty And The Heartbreakers is an American rock band from Gainesville, Florida. Tom Petty And The Heartbreakers have six members in the band; the current band members are Tom Petty, Mike Campbell, Benmont Tench, Ron Blair, Scott Thurston and Steve Ferrone. The band received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 1999. The band have won many Grammy Awards and were also the recipients of 2006's Billboard Century Award.

[[Echiura]]

CATEGORIES: Annelids

The Echiura, or spoon worms, are a small group of marine animals. They are often considered to be a group of annelids, although they lack the segmented structure found in other members of that group, and so may also be treated as a separate phylum.

However, phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences place echiurans and Sipuncula within the Annelida.

[[Acoelomorpha]]

CATEGORIES: Invertebrates, Minor phyla

The Acoelomorpha are a group of animals with features that were once put in the phylum Platyhelminthes (flatworms).

In 2004 molecular studies showed that this was wrong. 

Now it is clear that their closest relatives are the Xenoturbellida, and the two groups make up the proposed new phylum, the Xenacoelomorpha.

Most researchers believe them to be basal among the bilateria, slightly more derived than the Cnidaria. Recent results suggest that they (along with Xenoturbella) may lie near the base of the deuterostomes. An ongoing collaborative research project has "the researchers ... confident that they can reach an agreement about where acoels fit in evolutionary history".

Acoels are almost entirely marine, living between grains of sediment, swimming as plankton, or crawling on algae. Acoels have a statocyst, which presumably helps them orient to gravity. Their soft bodies make them difficult to classify.

[[Atlantic 10 Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic 10 Conference, NCAA Division I athletics conferences, 1976 establishments in the United States

The Atlantic 10 Conference (A10) is a NCAA conference that plays in NCAA Division I. The conference is headquartered in Newport News, Virginia and features universities and colleges from the Eastern and Midwestern United States.

[[Chess rating system]]

CATEGORIES: Chess

A chess rating system is a system used in chess to estimate the strength of a player, based on his performance against other players. They are used by all national chess organisations, and by FIDE, the International Chess Federation. In these systems a higher number indicates a stronger player. In general, a player's rating goes up if he performs better than expected and down if he performs worse than expected. The Elo rating system is used by FIDE and by many countries.

The first modern rating system was used by the Correspondence Chess League of America in 1939. Soviet player Andrey Khachatoruv proposed a similar system in 1946. The first one that made an impact on international chess was the Ingo system in 1948. The USCF (United States Chess Federation) adopted the Harkness system in 1950. Shortly after, the British Chess Federation started using a system devised by Sir Richard Clarke, a statistician and senior civil servant. The USCF switched to the Elo rating system in 1960, which was adopted by FIDE in 1970.

[[Great white pelican]]

CATEGORIES: Pelecaniformes

The great white pelican (Pelecanus onocrotalus) is also known as the Eastern white pelican, white pelican, or old world white pelican.  They are the second largest birds in the pelican family, with only the Dalmatian pelican larger than them.

The pelican breeds in southeastern Europe, south Asia, and Africa.  They are most common in Africa, as 80% of the 90,000 breeding pairs mate there.  However, because of climate change and humans using the wetlands they live in, some populations of great white pelicans are declining.

[[Lipase]]

CATEGORIES: Enzymes

A lipase is an enzyme that catalyzes the formation or cleavage (hydrolysis) of fats (lipids).

Lipases are essential for the digestion, transport and processing of lipids in the diet. Fats, oils and triglycerides are present in most (perhaps all) living organisms. Genes coding for lipases are even present in certain viruses.

[[Nikolai Volkoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Croatian sportspeople, Former WWE wrestlers, 2018 deaths, Professional wrestlers, WWE Hall of Fame, Yugoslavian sportspeople

Josip Nikolai Peruzović (14 October 1947 – 29 July 2018) better known by his ring name, Nikolai Volkoff, was a Yugoslavian professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling with World Wrestling Federation. Although the character he played was portrayed as Russian, He actually came from Croatia and has a mixed background that was not entirely Russian. He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2005 by Jim Ross.

Volkoff died on July 29, 2018 at the age of 70 just days after being released from a hospital in Glen Arm, Maryland where he had been treated for dehydration.

[[Palate]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

The palate is the roof of the mouth in humans and other mammals. It separates the oral cavity (mouth) from the nasal cavity.

A similar structure is found in crocodilia, but, in most other tetrapods, the oral and nasal cavities are not truly separate.

The palate is divided into two parts, the anterior bony hard palate, and the posterior fleshy soft palate or velum.

The hard palate is formed before birth.  If the fusion is not complete, it is called a cleft palate. This is a birth or congenital defect.

As the roof of the mouth was once considered the seat of the sense of taste, palate can also refer to this sense itself, as in the phrase "a discriminating palate". By further extension, the flavour of a food (particularly beer or wine) may be called its palate.

[[Mariner 4]]

CATEGORIES: Mariner program

Mariner 4 was a NASA spacecraft. It was the fourth spacecraft in the Mariner program. It was sent on a Mars flyby mission. It was the first successful mission to Mars. The spacecraft was launched on November 28, 1964 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Mariner 4 reached Mars after an eight-month journey. The spacecraft became the first spacecraft to take close-up photographs of another planet. The spacecraft also had other instruments to study the atmosphere of Mars.

The total cost of the Mariner 4 mission is estimated at $83.2 million. Total research, development, launch, and support costs for the Mariner series of spacecraft (Mariners 1 through 10) was approximately $554 million.

[[Mario Lemieux]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Art Ross Trophy winners, Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy winners, Calder Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey centres, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Cancer survivors, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, People from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Laval Voisins players, Living people, Order of Canada, People from Montreal, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Stanley Cup champions

Mario Lemieux, OC, (born October 5, 1965 in Montreal, Quebec, Canada) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey player. He is considered to be one of the best players of all time. He played 17 seasons as a forward with the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League from 1984-2006. He currently co-owns both the Pittsburgh Penguins and their farm team, the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1997. He was also inducted into the Canada's Walk of Fame in 2004.

[[Gordie Howe]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Art Ross Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Detroit Red Wings players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hartford Whalers players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Stanley Cup champions, World Hockey Association players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Gordie Howe, OC (March 31, 1928 – June 10, 2016) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player. He played for the Detroit Red Wings and the Hartford Whalers of the National Hockey League, and the Houston Aeros and the New England Whalers in the World Hockey Association. Howe was often known as Mr. Hockey, and was considered to be one of the best hockey players ever. He was born in Floral, Saskatchewan.

On October 26, 2014, Howe suffered a serious stroke. On December 2, 2014, Howe had another stroke and was taken to a hospital and was placed in ICU. He died on June 10, 2016 at his son's home in Sylvania, Ohio from complications of the stroke he suffered a year ago, aged 88.

[[Soviet Championship League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues

The Soviet Championship League was the top level ice hockey league in the Soviet Union from 1946-1992.

[[Russian Superleague]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues

The Russian Superleague was the top level ice hockey league in Russia from 1992-2008. It was known as the International Hockey League from 1992-1996.

[[Czechoslovak First Ice Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues

The Czechoslovak First Ice Hockey League was the top level of ice hockey in Czechoslovakia from 1930 until the breakup of Czechoslovakia in 1993. It was replaced by the Slovak Extraliga in SlovakiaFebruary 2012, and the Czech Extraliga in the Czech RepublicFebruary 2012.

[[Myxozoa]]

CATEGORIES: Cnidarians, Parasites

The Myxozoa  are a group of parasitic animals of aquatic environments. Some of them, such as Myxobolus cerebralis, are important parasites of fishes that people eat.

Over 1300 species have been described and many have a two-host life cycle, involving a fish and an annelid worm or bryozoan.

They were once considered as parasitic protozoa, but are now known to be members of the phylum Cnidaria. Analysis of 50 coding genes from Buddenbrockia showed the Myxozoa were severely modified members of the Cnidaria.

Similarities between myxozoan 'polar capsules' and cnidarian nematocysts (stinging cells) had been known for a long time, but previously were thought to be the result of convergent evolution.

[[Pederpes]]

CATEGORIES: Stem tetrapods, Fossils

Pederpes is an extinct genus of early Carboniferous tetrapod, dating from the lower Mississippian, 359–345 million years ago (mya). Pederpes contains one species, P. finneyae, 1 m long. A single fossil was found in East Kirton quarry, West Lothian, Scotland, in early Carboniferous rocks. It is the first (and only) known near-complete skeleton of a tetrapod from the earliest Carboniferous. It lacks only the tail and some digits.

Pederpes had a large, somewhat triangular head, similar to that of later American Whatcheeria. This specimen shows the earliest example of a foot adapted for walking on land.  The feet look like the feet of later, more terrestrially adapted Carboniferous forms. Pederpes is therefore the earliest known tetrapod that walked on land.

It fits in the middle of the a gap in the fossil record which separates the aquatic Devonian tetrapods from the terrestrial ones of the mid-Carboniferous.

[[Yolanda Saldívar]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, American people convicted of murder, American prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment, Criminals from Texas, Selena

Yolanda Saldívar (born September 19, 1960) is an American murderer. She was convicted of Selena's murder in March 1995. Saldívar is currently serving a life sentence in a Texas jail. She will be eligible for parole in 2025. 

Saldívar was a registered nurse who  met with Selena after a concert in 1991. They became friends quickly and Selena offered her a job as her fan club's president and another job, at her boutique (Selena Etc.)February 2012

On March 31, 1995, Saldívar and Selena met at a hotel room in Corpus Christi, Texas. Selena was there to get some missing documents that Saldívar stole from her. Saldívar claimed she was raped and needed Selena's help. Selena drove Saldívar to the hospital where doctors told Selena that Saldívar was not raped. They drove back to the hotel. Selena asked for the documents one last time. When Selena went to close the door, Saldivar took a gun from her purse and held Selena at gunpoint. In order to stop her from closing the door, she pulled the trigger and shot Selena in the back. Selena ran to the hotel lobby where she fell. Staff called 9-1-1. Selena was taken to a local hospital, but was declared dead. Saldivar went to her pickup truck and threatened suicide, but gave herself up after nine hours. 

Saldívar's trial for the murder of Selena was followed by the Hispanic community in the United States. She was convicted and sentenced to life in prison soon after. It is believed that Saldívar will never leave prison in her lifetime because of the impact of her crime and the many death threats she has received if she were to ever make parole in 2025 

[[Candlelight vigil]]

CATEGORIES: Death customs

A candlelight vigil is where a group of people mourn the loss of someone who was close to them. These events are usually held at sunset. Many vigils can be for someone who recently died and are remembered with silence and a candle burning.

[[Univision]]

CATEGORIES: Companies based in California

Univisión is one of the largest Hispanic television channels in the United States.January 2012

It was founded by the largest media company in Mexico (now known as Grupo Televisa) as a means to spread Spanish programming in the United States. Univision has grown to be the largest Spanish-language media outlet in the U.S.January 2012  Its daily news program Noticiero Univisión, co-anchored by Jorge Ramos and María Elena Salinas, has in several occasions outdone (in number of ratings) major English-language network evening news programming such as CBS, NBC, and ABC's World News TonightJanuary 2012.

Univisión and Telemundo USA have been competing for the top spot among Hispanic viewers for many years, often imitating each other's programming.

Univisión headquarters are based in Los Angeles, although much of its programming is filmed in Miami. Among its shows are El Show De Cristina (talkshow hosted by Cristina Saralegui), Don Francisco's Sábado Gigante, Despierta América (morning show), Primer Impacto (newsmagazine), Aquí y Ahora (premier investigative nightly newsmagazine),  and Noticiero Univisión (news program conducted by Jorge Ramos and Maria Elena Salinas).

In 2013, Univision and ABC News announced that they were to become partners and will form a new channel called Fusion. Fusion will show English news for Hispanic audiences. The channel began broadcasting on October 28, 2013.

[[Lake Jackson, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Lake Jackson is a city in Brazoria County, Texas.  As of a 2006 U.S. Census Bureau the city population was 27,614.

Lake Jackson is named after an oxbow lake of the same name. The city is the birthplace of famous Tejano superstar, Selena, rock musician Casey McPherson, and hometown of country music singers Cole Deggs and Shade Deggs of the group Cole Deggs & The Lonesome. The city has also long been the hometown of Ron Paul, the Congressman who represents Texas' 14th Congressional District.

[[Quinceañera]]

CATEGORIES: Birthdays

The Quinceañera is a young Latina woman's celebration of her fifteenth birthday, which is celebrated in a specific and different way from her other birthdays. It is the same as the English version of a Sweet Sixteen.

The celebration begins with a Thanksgiving Mass, in which the quinceañera arrives in formal dress, accompanied by her parents, godparents, seven maids of honor and seven chamberlains. After the Mass, the younger sisters, female cousins and friends of the quinceañera pass out party favors, and the quinceañera leaves her bouquet in an altar to the Virgin Mary. The Mass is followed by a party at either the quinceañera's home or in a banquet hall rented for the occasion.

[[High school diploma]]

CATEGORIES: Education in Canada, Education in the United States

A high school diploma is awarded for anyone who completed their high school credits. In the United States, it is considered the minimum education required for government jobs and higher education.

[[The American School of Correspondence]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in the United States, 1897 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Illinois

The American School of Correspondence is an American distance education high school in Lansing, Illinois. It was founded in 1897, and is accredited. The school has about 50,000 students.  The American School offers its own high school diploma.

The school was in the Hyde Park, Chicago, neighborhood from 1912 to 1996. Then it moved to south suburban Lansing.

[[Rick Trevi]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican singers, Singers from Houston, Texas, 1971 births, Living people

Rick Trevino (born on June 15, 1971 in Houston, Texas) is a Mexican-American country music singer.  His first country music hit was in 1993 with "Just Enough Rope" from his self-titled second albumFebruary 2012. This was followed with "Honky Tonk Crowd," "She Can't Say I Didn't Cry," "Doctor Time," and "Bobbie Ann Mason." He has also charted with "Learning as You Go," "Runnin' Out of Reasons to Run," and "I Only Get This Way With You."

Rick has played with Tejano greats such as Freddie Fender and Flaco Jiminez, and was a member of the band, Los Super 7. His upcoming album includes the track "Better in Texas"February 2012.

[[SBK Records]]

CATEGORIES: Record labels

SBK Records is a record label started in the late 1980s. It was a sub-division of EMI RecordsFebruary 2012.

Stephen Swid, Martin Bandier and Charles Koppelman formed the production company for a reported $295 million. The label had several hits with Vanilla Ice, Jon Secada, Wilson Phillips, Technotronic and Teenage Mutant Ninja TurtlesFebruary 2012. 

SBK Records shut down in 1995 after the murder of Selena. SBK Records signed her for a crossover dealFebruary 2012.

[[Spokesperson]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

A spokesman (spokesperson or spokeswoman), or spokesmodel is a person who speaks on behalf of others, but is understood not to be necessarily part of the others (e.g. hired to represent the others). 

A spokesperson's job is to faithfully (with good intentions) represent and promote for how the organization will run, even if he/she doesn't agree with the organization's opinions. Because of this, spokespeople are normally people who are highly experienced employees, or people who have been supporting the organization's goals for a long time.

[[Elopement (marriage)]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage

An elopement is a marriage done in secret or private. Elopement may be an alternative to a large expensive wedding. It may also be illegal or against religious customs. In some parts of the world, Bali for example, elopement is the preferred form of marriage. Celebrities often elope to escape the paparazzi. 

[[La Carcacha]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1992 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"La Carcacha" ("The Jalopy") is a song by American singer Selena. The music video became Selena's first music video, which was released in 1992. The song also helped Selena to tour in Mexico and reached within the top ten of Billboard's Hot Latin Tracks chartFebruary 2012.

[[Music venue]]

CATEGORIES: Music venues

A music venue is any location of a music performance. In the music industry, it is common to refer to concert sites as venues, especially among touring acts.

[[Duet]]

CATEGORIES: Music

A duet is a musical composition for two performers, most often used for a vocal or piano duet. For other instruments, the word duo is often used. 

The word duet is used in any of the following ways:

[[Álvaro Torres]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Latin singers, Salvadoran writers, Singer-songwriters

Álvaro Germán Ibarra Torres (born April 9, 1954) is a Salvadoran singer-songwriter. He is known for singing a duet with American singer Selena for the song "Buenos Amigos" in 1991February 2012. The song peaked at number-one on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks chart.

[[Hot Latin Tracks]]

CATEGORIES: Record charts

Hot Latin Tracks is a record chart published by Billboard magazine. The chart is based on Spanish-language songs airplay in the United States. English-language songs are allowed to peak within the chart, if a Hispanic singer had recorded itFebruary 2012.

[[Dos Mujeres, Un Camino]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 television series debuts, 1993 establishments in North America, 1990s establishments in Mexico

Dos Mujeres, un Camino is a 1993 telenovela that was produced in Mexico by Televisa. It was one of that network's most seen soap operas everFebruary 2012. The story centers a Mexican truck driver working for his family. He falls in love with a woman on the road. His complicated life and consequence for his new love is also in the story.

The show had the highest ratings when it had airedFebruary 2012. 

[[Premio Lo Nuestro]]

CATEGORIES: Music awards

Lo Nuestro is an awards show for Latin music. It is produced by television network Univision. The awards began in 1989. Artists with awards are Celia Cruz, Gloria Estefan, Juan Gabriel, Juanes, Luis Miguel, Maná,  RBD, Selena, Shakira and ThalíaFebruary 2012. 

The artist with the most Premios Lo Nuestro awards is Puerto Rican singer Olga Tañón.

[[Broadcast Music, Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: Music industry

Broadcast Music Incorporated or BMI is an organization to protect music rights in the communications business.  It was founded by ASCAP, who were boycotting radio at the time (1944). Both BMI and ASCAP, as well as other organizations like SESAC monitor performances of the music to which they control the rights. BMI has historically been more open to composers of rock and roll,  jazz, folk music, blues, and country music who sing and play their own musicFebruary 2012.

In 2013, BMI made $944 million and gave $814 million to its songwriters.

[[Barrio Boyzz]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 1991 establishments in New York (state), 2000s American music groups, 2001 disestablishments in the United States, American boy bands, American pop music groups, American R&B bands, Latin music, Musical groups disestablished in 2001, Musical groups established in 1991, Musical groups from New York City

The Barrio Boyzz were a Puerto Rican boy band. The group was founded in New York City by Joe Jacket (of New Kids on The Block). They were signed to SBK Records in 1991. They also starred in the 1994 movie I Like It Like That. Their duet with American singer Selena called "Donde Quiera Que Estés" peaked at number-one on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks in 1994. The band disbanded in 2001February 2012.

[[Don Juan DeMarco]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 comedy movies, 1995 drama movies, 1995 romance movies, English-language movies

Don Juan DeMarco is a 1995 movie starring Johnny Depp. It was released to theaters by Warner Bros.

[[Joggins]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Canada, Nova Scotia, Lagerstätten

Joggins, Nova Scotia, Canada, is famous for its fossils dating to the Pennsylvanian 'Coal Age' of Earth history. On July 7, 2008 a 15 km length of the coast comprising the Joggins Fossil Cliffs was officially inscribed on the World Heritage List.

The dating of this site has been debated, with dates from 320 million years ago (mya) to 305 mya being suggested.p39 It is now settled as 314.5–313.4 mya +/- 1.1 million years.p40

[[Josh Duhamel]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American models, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American Roman Catholics, Actors from North Dakota, Musicians from North Dakota, People from Minot, North Dakota

Joshua David "Josh" Duhamel (born November 14, 1972) is an American actor and former fashion model. He is well known for his role in the movie Transformers.  From 2009 to 2017, he was married to singer Fergie.

[[Volkswagen Scirocco]]

CATEGORIES: Volkswagen automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1970s automobiles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles

The Volkswagen Scirocco is a car produced by Volkswagen from 1982 to 1992 and again since 2008.The Scirocco is a sports coupé with 3 doors and a 4-cylinder petrol or diesel engine.

[[Tetrapodomorph]]

CATEGORIES: Lobe-finned fish, Tetrapods

Tetrapodomorpha is a clade of vertebrates. It is a clade of the Sarcopterygii which includes tetrapods (four-limbed vertebrates) and their closest relatives. Tetrapodomorpha is part of Rhipidistia. 

Advanced transitional fossils between fish and the early labyrinthodonts, like Tiktaalik, are informally called 'fishapods' by their discoverers. They are half-fish half-tetrapods, in appearance and limb morphology. 

Tetrapodomorpha contains 

Among the characters defining tetrapodomorphs are modifications to the fins, notably a humerus with convex head articulating with the glenoid fossa (the socket of the shoulder joint).

Tetrapodomorph fossils are known from the early Devonian onwards, and include Eusthenopteron, Osteolepis, Panderichthys, Tiktaalik, Ventastega and Kenichthys.

The fossils of the early Mississippian, Pederpes and Whatcheeria are regarded as early tetrapods whose relationships are not yet clear.

[[National League A]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues

The National League A is a professional ice hockey league in Switzerland. Before the 2007-08 season, it was known as the Nationalliga A.

[[Shoulder]]

CATEGORIES: Joints

The human shoulder is made up of three bones: the clavicle (collarbone), the scapula (shoulder blade), and the humerus (upper arm bone) as well as muscles, ligaments and tendons.  

The articulations (surfaces) between the bones of the shoulder make up the shoulder joints. The shoulder joint is the part of the body where the humerus attaches to the scapula, the head sitting in the glenoid fossa. The shoulder as a whole is the complete group of structures in the region of the joint.

There are two kinds of cartilage in the joint. The first type is the white cartilage on the ends of the bones (called articular cartilage) which allows the bones to glide and move on each other. When this type of cartilage starts to wear out (a process called arthritis), the joint becomes painful and stiff. 

The labrum is a second kind of cartilage in the shoulder which is distinctly different from the articular cartilage. This cartilage is more fibrous or rigid than the cartilage on the ends of the ball and socket. Also, this cartilage is also found only around the socket where it is attached.

The shoulder must be mobile enough for the wide range actions of the arms and hands, but also stable enough to allow for actions such as lifting, pushing and pulling.  The compromise between mobility and stability results in many shoulder problems not faced by other joints such as the hip.

[[1941–42 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 in North America, 1942 in North America

The 1941–42 NHL season was the 25th season of the National Hockey League. Seven teams played 48 games each. The Toronto Maple Leafs would win the Stanley Cup defeating the Detroit Red Wings winning four straight after losing the first three in a best-of-seven series, a feat only repeated twice in NHL history as of the 2010 season.

[[1942–43 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 in North America

The 1942–43 NHL season was the 26th season of the National Hockey League NHL). Six teams played 50 games each. This is the first season of the "Original Six" era of the NHL. The league's long-time president Frank Calder died due to heart disease. The Detroit Red Wings defeated the Boston Bruins to win the Stanley Cup.

[[Wilfred Owen]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1918 deaths, British Army people, British military personnel of World War I, English LGBT people, English poets, LGBT military people, LGBT poets, Military people killed in World War I, People from Oswestry

Wilfred Edward Salty Owen MC (18 March 1893 – 4 November 1918) was an English poet and soldier, one of the leading poets of the First World War.

Owen was born in Shropshire, and had three siblings; two brothers and a sister.  When he was very small, the family moved to Birkenhead, where he went to school.  Later, he attended Shrewsbury Technical School.  Although he passed the exams necessary to go to university, he was unable to go because his parents could not afford the fees.  Before the war, he worked as an assistant to a vicar, and then went to France to teach English to the children of a French family.  About a year after war broke out, he joined the army as a junior officer, and was eventually sent back to France with the Manchester Regiment in 1916.

Conditions for troops on the Western Front were very harsh, and Owen suffered several bad experiences that led to him being considered unfit to continue fighting.  He was sent to Craiglockhart War Hospital in Edinburgh for treatment by a psychiatrist.  While there, he wrote poetry, and became editor of the hospital magazine, which was called The Hydra.  Soon afterwards, a better-known poet called Siegfried Sassoon arrived at the hospital as a patient, and the two became great friends.  Sassoon helped Owen to improve his writing, and introduced him to other writers and publishers.  Although Sassoon had made a public protest against the war, he quickly grew tired of life at the hospital, and went back to France to continue fighting.  In the meantime, Owen was given a job in the Northern Command Depot at Ripon, where he did not have to do any fighting.

When Owen was considered to be well enough to return to fighting, his friends were very worried about him.  He spent an afternoon with Siegfried Sassoon, who had been sent home after being seriously wounded; Sassoon tried to persuade Owen not to go back, but Owen had little choice.  He returned to France in July 1918.

Perhaps because he had previously been accused of being a coward, Owen was determined to show what a good soldier he could be.  On 1 October 1918 he led his men in an attack near the village of Joncourt, and his bravery was recognised by his being awarded the Military Cross.  However, shortly afterwards, while trying to cross the Sambre canal with his men, he was killed.  He died at the age of 25, only a week before the end of the war.

Owen never married, and is thought to have been homosexual, although there is no surviving evidence to prove this.

[[World Cup of Hockey]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey competitions

The World Cup of Hockey is an international ice hockey tournament, and is the successor to the Canada Cup, which was held from 1976 to 1991. The World Cup of Hockey has been held twice, in 1996 and 2004.

[[Pop icon]]

CATEGORIES: Culture

Pop icon is a celebrity whose popularity stays the same or even increases as time goes by.

Most pop icons achieve their status through death, typically at a young age.February 2012 The worship of pop icons is due only in part to their actual accomplishments. Some of the most notable pop icons are James Dean, Michael Jackson, John F. Kennedy and Marilyn Monroe. However, even celebrities who died old can become a pop icon like Elvis Presley.

Death nearly always increases the fame of a pop icon. Many people respect the dead. Others feel a close personal connection with the dead icon and want to remember the celebrity. Death also increases any value of all items that belonged to the pop icon.

[[Canada Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey competitions

The Canada Cup was an international ice hockey tournament that was held five times from 1976 to 1991. Canada won the Cup four out of five times, and the Soviet Union won it once.

[[Donna Summer]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2012 deaths, African American musicians, American Christians, American R&B singers, American singer-songwriters, Cancer deaths in Florida, Deaths from lung cancer, Disco, Grammy Award winners, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, Singers from Boston, Massachusetts

Donna Adrian Gaines (December 31, 1948 – May 17, 2012), known by her stage name Donna Summer, was an American singer-songwriter. She was an African American Christian who was born and raised in Boston, Massachusetts. She became famous during the disco era in the 1970s and became a pop icon. She died of lung cancer in Englewood, Florida. In 1982 she released a single with Michael Jackson, Lionel Richie, and Stevie Wonder called "State of Independence".  She became known for songs like "Hot Stuff", "Last Dance", and "She Works Hard for the Money".

In 1974, Summer married Helmuth Sommer (which led to her stage name Summer) but divorced him two years later.  She married Bruce Sudano in 1990 and had two children with him.

[[D.A.R.E.]]

CATEGORIES: Education in the United States

Drug Abuse Resistance Education, better known as DARE or D.A.R.E., is an educational program for elementary  students. Students who enter the program sign a pledge to never use illegal drugs and attend a series of speeches for seventeen weeks provided by local law enforcement warning of the dangers of drug abuse.

[[Fundraising]]

CATEGORIES: Finance

Fundraising is the process of raising money for charities. Charities may use these to continue providing free after school activities for children, raise money for a cure and help elders and other patients with low income.

This may be achieved in many ways.

Some ways include:

[[Life imprisonment]]

CATEGORIES: Punishments, Imprisonment and detention

Life imprisonment is a term used for a sentence of imprisonment. The effect of such a sentence is different in each jurisdiction. Life in prison is known by others as a humane alternative to the death penalty for the most serious crimes such as murder, terrorism, etc.

[[Gregory Nava]]

CATEGORIES: American movie directors, People from San Diego, California, 1949 births, Living people

Gregory James Nava is an American movie director. Nava was born on April 10, 1949 in San Diego, California. He won several awards for his movies.

[[People En Espanol]]

CATEGORIES: Magazines

People en Espanol is a Spanish-language magazine published by Time Warner, Inc. that debuted in 1996 out of the success of the Selena tribute issue. As of 2006, it was the Spanish-language magazine of largest readership in the United States, reaching 4.2 million readers with each issue.

[[Golden Eagle Award]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s establishments in Russia, 2002 establishments, Movie awards, Television, Russian culture

Golden Eagle Award (премия Золотой Орел) is a Russian national award for movies and TV series, run by the Russian Academy of Cinema Arts since 2002. It like the Academy Awards and gives out in 20 nominations each January. The ceremony is held at the Mosfilm studios, where some of the most acclaimed Soviet features were filmed.

[[American Bank Center]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment venues, Sports buildings in Texas, Corpus Christi, Texas, Convention and exhibition centers in the United States

The American Bank Center is a Convention Center and 8,156-seat arena in Corpus Christi, Texas. The centre is host to many conventions, concerts, performances, and sporting events. The arena is home to the Corpus Christi Rayz ice hockey team, as well as the Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi Islanders men's and women's basketball teams. As well as the convention facilities and arena, the American Bank Center also features the Selena Auditorium, named after Selena. The American Bank Center is in Corpus Christi's Bayfront Arts and Science Park.

[[Selena Forever]]

CATEGORIES: Selena, 2000s musicals, Musicals based on movies

Selena Forever is a musical. It is about American singer Selena's life. It stars Veronica Vazquez as "Selena". The musical is based on the movie Selena.

[[Murder of Selena]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 in the United States, 1990s in Texas, 1990s murders in the United States, Corpus Christi, Texas, March events, Murder in 1995, Murders by firearm in Texas, Selena

The murder of American singer Selena Quintanilla happened on March 31, 1995. Fans were saddened when the news of Selena's death was released by the media. She was shot and killed by Yolanda Saldivar. Saldivar was an employee and manager for Selena's boutiques and fan club and was found to have been embezzling money.

Selena did not believe her best friend could do something like that and tried to maintain their friendship. However, by March, 1995 Saldivar and Selena's friendship had begun to crumble. Selena and her husband Chris Pérez visited Saldívar on 30 March 1995 to get the documents that she had stolen. Saldívar did not give Selena all the documents. On the morning of 31 March 1995, Selena met up with Saldívar to collect paperwork and missing documents for tax preparations. At the hotel, Selena demanded that Saldívar give her the missing financial papers. Saldívar then claimed that she was raped in Mexico. Selena took her to a local hospital where doctors found that Saldívar was lying. This made Selena decide to end her friendship with Saldívar. Saldívar wanted to quit with Selena and Selena tried to convince her not to. When Selena went to close the door, Saldivar took a gun from her purse and held Selena at gunpoint. In order to stop her from closing the door, she pulled the trigger and shot Selena in the back. Selena was taken to a local hospital, but was declared dead. Saldivar went to her pickup truck and threatened suicide, but gave herself up after nine hours.

Saldivar pleaded not guilty to the charge of murder, claiming that the shooting was an accident. However, she was found guilty by jury and sentenced to life in prison with eligibility for parole in 2025. A lot of tributes were done throughout the United States and Mexico. Two life-sized statues were made in her honor. A 1997 movie was produced by Warner Bros.. It starred Jennifer Lopez as her breakthrough role.

Selena's death has been compared to those of Elvis Presley and John Lennon.Who compared? Need citation to justify. Selena's death was called Black Friday by some Texans. George W. Bush declared April 16 as "Selena Day" in Texas. The event has gone on to become known as one of the darkest days in music history and helped to increase Selena's popularity in the United States.July 2020

[[MG 34]]

CATEGORIES: General-purpose machine guns, 8 mm firearms

The ''Maschinengewehr'' 34, or MG 34, was a general-purpose machine gun. It was developed in Nazi Germany. It was first made and accepted in 1934. It was first given to soldiers in 1935. It fires the 7.92 x 57mm Mauser cartridge.

It was designed to be able to be a light machine gun and be able to do other things as well. This was an early example of a general-purpose machine gun. When it is being used as a light machine gun, a bipod can be attached to it. If it is being used for other things, it is put onto a tripod and is belt-fed. In a battle, the bipod version was used mostly. This turned the MG 34 into an infantry support weapon. Later, the MG 34 started to be used less for the MG 42.

[[Ramy Ayach]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Druze, Lebanese singers

Ramy Ayach (رامي عياش) is a Lebanese singer. He was born on August 18, 1980 in Baakleen, Lebanon. Ayach was born as the oldest child. He was raised in the mountains of Lebanon. He became aware of his music and started singing in public places. He then became one of the most popular Arabian singers in the Middle East.

[[Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: History of Afghanistan

The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (Pashto: د افغانستان اسلامي امارت, Da Afġānistān Islāmī Amārāt) is an Islamic state governed by the Taliban that is the de facto current government of Afghanistan since 2021, has also ruled the country from 1996 to 2001.

Between 1996 and 2001, it controlled approximately 90% of the country as an insurgency, whereas remaining regions in the northeast were held by the Northern Alliance, which maintained broad international recognition as a continuation of the Islamic State of Afghanistan. After the September 11 attacks and subsequent declaration of a "War on Terrorism" by the United States, international opposition to the regime drastically increased, with diplomatic recognition from the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan being rescinded.

The Islamic Emirate was overthrown by the Northern Alliance on 17 December 2001, which had been bolstered by the ISAF coalition established after a U.S.-led invasion of the country two months prior. The Taliban has continued to refer to itself as the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in official communications from 2001 until 2021.

During the 2021 Taliban offensive, the Islamic Emirate regained effective control of the governance of Afghanistan following the Fall of Kabul on 15 August 2021.

[[Palestinian Jews]]

CATEGORIES: Palestinian culture, Judaism

A Palestinian Jew is a Jewish inhabitant of Palestine (or Land of Israel) at various points in the region's history (see Dispute over usage of the term below). Jews in Palestine prior to the establishment of the State of Israel are more commonly referred to as "Yishuv" (Jewish Community). A distinction is drawn between the "Old Yishuv," that is, the pre-existing Jews in the land of Israel, and the "New Yishuv," that is, the newly-arrived Jewish immigrants after the First Aliyah in 1881.  After the modern State of Israel was born in 1948, native Jews in Palestine became citizens of Israel, and the term "Palestinian Jews" largely fell into disuse.

[[Christianity in Palestine]]

CATEGORIES: Palestinian culture, Christianity by country

Some people who speak Arabic and live on the territory called Palestine today are Christians. These include Oriental Orthodoxy, Eastern Orthodoxy, Catholic (Eastern and Western rites), Protestant, and others. About half of them belong a branch of the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Greek Orthodox Church of Jerusalem. 

Today, less that four percent of the Palestinian Arabs living inside the borders of Palestine are Christians. Many Arabs emigrated, mainly because of wars fought between Egypt, Israel and Jordan. There is also a pressure to join Islam. Surveys done by the British in 1922 and 1946 showed that in 1922, about 9.5%  and in 1946 approximately 7.6% of the Palestinian Arabs were Christians.

[[Dalmatian pelican]]

CATEGORIES: Pelecaniformes

The Dalmatian pelican (Pelecanus crispus) is  a large bird. It lives in wet places such as in swamps and shallow lakes. It can be found from southeastern Europe to Pakistan and China.

It is the largest member of the pelican family. The average length is  170–190 cm (67-75 inches) The average weight is 11–15 kg (24-33 lbs). The wings are around 3 m (10 ft) across. It is the world's heaviest flying bird on average. However, sometimes a few birds from another species may also be as large or larger.

[[Platyzoa]]

CATEGORIES: Groups of phyla

The Platyzoa ("flat animals") are a group of protostomes proposed by Thomas Cavalier-Smith in 1998. This is a taxon above the level of phylum, and is not part of the usual system of classification.

Cavalier-Smith included here the Platyhelminthes (flatworms), and a new phylum Acanthognatha, into which he gathered several previously described phyla of microscopic animals. Subsequent studies have supported Platyzoa as a viable clade, while differing on the phyla included and on relationships within Platyzoa.

[[Lophotrochozoa]]

CATEGORIES: Groups of phyla

The Lophotrochozoa ("crest-bearing animals") are a group of animals above the level of phylum. It is not part of the usual system of classification. They were recently discovered through molecular phylogeny. They include two of the most successful animal phyla, the Mollusca and Annelida. 

[[French food]]

CATEGORIES: French food, Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity

French food has influenced the style of cooking throughout Europe, and its chefs work in restaurants throughout the world.

The roots of modern haute cuisine lie in chefs like La Varenne (1615–1678) and the notable chef of Napoleon, Marie-Antoine Carême (1784–1833). These chefs developed a lighter style of food compared to the food of the Middle Ages. They used fewer spices, and more herbs and creamy ingredients.

Typical ingredients like roux and fish stock, and techniques such as marinading, and dishes such as ragout, were invented. Carême was an expert pâtissier (pastry-maker), and this is still a mark of French cooking. He developed basic sauces, his 'mother sauces'; he had over a hundred sauces in his repertoire, based on the half-dozen mother sauces.

French cooking was introduced in the 20th century by Georges Auguste Escoffier (1846–1935). He was a genius at organisation. He worked out how to run large restaurants, as in a big hotel or a palace: how the staff should be organised; how the menu was prepared. He had methods for everything. Escoffier managed the restaurants and cuisine at the Savoy Hotel and Carlton Hotel in London, the Hôtel Ritz Paris, and some of the greatest cruise ships of the day.

Escoffier's other main contribution was the publication of Le Guide Culinaire in 1903, which spread the understanding of French cookery. However, Escoffier left out much of the culinary character to be found in the regions of France.

Gastro-tourism and the Guide Michelin helped to acquaint people with the rich bourgeois and peasant cuisine of the French countryside in the 20th century. Gascon cuisine has also had great influence over the cuisine in the southwest of France. Many dishes that were once regional have proliferated in variations across the country. Cheese and wine are a major part of the cuisine, playing different roles regionally and nationally. In the north of France, people often prefer to use butter to cook. In the south, they prefer olive oil and garlic. In France, each region has its own special dish; choucroute in Alsace, quiche in Lorraine, cassoulet in the Languedoc-Roussillon, tapenade in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur, bouillabaisse in Marseille.

In November 2010, French gastronomy was added by UNESCO to its lists of the world's 'intangible cultural heritage'.

[[Rock pool]]

CATEGORIES: Biomes, Habitats

Rock pools (or 'tide pools') are rocky pools by the sea. They are in the intertidal zone. They are filled with seawater during high tides, and exist as separate pools at low tide. 

Tide pools are habitats of uniquely adaptable animals that have engaged the special attention of naturalists and marine biologists.

[[Doom engine]]

CATEGORIES: Video game technology

The Doom engine, sometimes called ID Tech 1, is the computer code behind the video game Doom. It is also used by several other games, including Doom 2 (but not Doom 3, which has its own engine). Heavily modified versions of the Doom engine are used in Heretic, Hexen, and Strife.

The Doom engine uses a technique called binary space partitioning to represent 3D levels in a way that a computer can process quickly. It is written mostly in C. The source code has been released for free under the GNU General Public License. Many Doom fans have made their own modified versions called source ports. Source ports often add new features and fix problems in the original engine. Popular source ports include Boom, PrBoom, PrBoom+, Zdoom, and Chocolate Doom.

The Doom engine represents levels internally using structures called linedefs, sidedefs, sectors, verticies, and things (meaning monsters, items, decorations, etc.). The doom engine reads levels and other data from a file called a WAD.

The Doom engine renders levels entirely on the CPU, not the video card, as most video cards at the time (1993) did not have 3D acceleration. This required very efficient algorithms to make the game work on the slow computers of the time.

The Doom engine has been made available for more types of computers than any other first person shooter engine. It is easy for a programmer to make it work on a new type of computer because it is written in C and it uses very few system resources, allowing it to run on handheld computers and computers without a 3D accelerator.

[[Sociolinguistics]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

Sociolinguistics is the study of how language is related to society. It also studies how people affect language usage. Sociolinguistics studies how variety in language changes between groups of people because of things such as race, gender, status, age, etc.

Indian and Japanese linguists first studied the social parts of language in the 1930s. Louis Gauchat in Switzerland also studied this in the early 1900s. However, none of them were known in the West until much later. The study of why language changes started during the late 1900's in the wave model. Thomas Callan Hodson was the first person to us the word sociolinguistics. It was in an article he wrote in 1939 called "Sociolinguistics in India". This was printed in a magazine called Man in India. Sociolinguistics in the West first came in the 1960s. It was pushed forward by linguists such as William Labov (in the US) and Basil Bernstein (in the UK). In the 1960s, William Stewart and Heinz Kloss introduced the simple ideas for the concept of pluricentric languages. This explains how standard language varieties are different between countries (e.g. American/British/Canadian/Australian English; Austrian/German/Swiss German; Bosnian/Croatian/Montenegrin/Serbian Serbo-Croatian).

[[J. G. Ballard]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2009 deaths, Alumni of King's College, Cambridge, British autobiographers, Cancer deaths in London, Deaths from prostate cancer, English novelists

James Graham Ballard (often "Jim"; 15 November 1930 – 19 April 2009) was an English novelist, short story writer, and important member of the New Wave movement in science fiction. His best-known books are  Crash (1973) and Empire of the Sun (1984).

[[Indian cormorant]]

CATEGORIES: Cormorants

The Indian cormorant or Indian shag (Phalacrocorax fuscicollis) is a member of the cormorant family. It is found mainly along the inland waters of the Indian Subcontinent but extending west to Sindh (S Pakistan) and east to Thailand and Cambodia. It is a gregarious species that can be easily distinguished from the similar sized Little cormorant by its blue eye, small head with a sloping forehead and a long narrow bill ending in a hooked tip.

[[Oriental Darter]]

CATEGORIES: Pelecaniformes, Birds of Asia, IUCN Red List near threatened species

The Oriental darter or Indian darter (Anhinga melanogaster), sometimes called snakebird, is a water bird of tropical South Asia and Southeast Asia.

[[Charades]]

CATEGORIES: Games

Charades or charade (ʃ shə or ʃ shə) is a word guessing game. A player acts out a word or phrase and the other players attempt to guess what the word or phrase is in a certain amount of time. The person who is acting usually pantomimes similar sounding words. The game has also been adapted into television shows like Acting Crazy, Party Game, Give Us a Clue, Body Language and Celebrity Charades.

[[Aestivation]]

CATEGORIES: Physiology

Aestivation, also spelled estivation in the USA, is a state of animal dormancy. 

It is somewhat similar to hibernation. The animals are inactive and have a lowered metabolic rate. The state is entered in response to high temperatures and dry conditions. Lungfish have been doing this since the Devonian period. It takes place during times of heat and dryness, the hot dry season, which is often but not necessarily the summer months. A wide range of animals aestivate, including the Nile crocodile and many snails and lady beetles.

Invertebrate and vertebrate animals are known to enter this state to avoid damage from high temperatures and the risk of drying out. Both land- and water-living animals can undergo aestivation.

[[Dormancy]]

CATEGORIES: Metabolism

Dormancy is a period in an organism's life cycle when growth, development, and (in animals) physical activity are temporarily stopped. This minimizes metabolic activity and therefore helps an organism to conserve energy. Dormancy tends to be closely associated with environmental conditions. Organisms can synchronize entry to a dormant phase with their environment through predictive or consequential means.

Predictive dormancy occurs when an organism enters a dormant phase before the onset of adverse conditions. For example, day length and decreasing temperature are used by many plants as triggers to start dormancy before the onset of winter.

Consequential dormancy occurs when organisms enter a dormant phase after adverse conditions arise. This is often found in areas with an unpredictable climate. Sudden changes in conditions may lead to a high mortality rate among animals relying on consequential dormancy. On the other hand, its use can be advantageous, as organisms remain active longer and are able to make greater use of available resources.

[[Wedding officiant]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Marriage

A wedding officiant is a person who is allowed by the government to perform weddings. This person may be a civil servant, or they may hold a religious position (for example, a priest or a rabbi). In some countries, certain religious officials are automatically allowed to perform weddings. In other countries, they must first ask permission from the government. 

Wedding officiants who work for the government must often follow special rules, that others do not have to follow. For example, the government might not allow them to refuse to perform a wedding, if the people who want to get married are allowed to by the law. 

Some countries allow anyone, not just civil servants or religious officials, to become wedding officiants temporarily. A temporary wedding officiant is usually allowed to carry out only one specific wedding that they asked permission for. If they want to perform another one, they have to ask the government for permission again. 

[[Masked booby]]

CATEGORIES: Seabirds

The masked booby, Sula dactylatra, is a large seabird of the booby family, Sulidae.

These birds often fight each other for certain types of fish. Many adults will create a flock of their own to take down a school of fish but many boobies hunt alone so their catch is not stolen by the other birds in the area.

They are often mistaken for the common seagull due to the primary white color on its feathers.

[[Great cormorant]]

CATEGORIES: Cormorants

The great cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo), is a member of the cormorant family of seabirds.  It is a large black bird which breeds in much of the Old World and the Atlantic coast of North America. There is a lot of variation in its size in different parts of the world.Weight is reported to vary from 1.5 to 5.3.

[[Little cormorant]]

CATEGORIES: Cormorants

The little cormorant (Microcarbo niger) is a member of the cormorant family of seabirds.

[[Pygmy cormorant]]

CATEGORIES: Cormorants, Pelecaniformes

The pygmy cormorant (Microcarbo pygmaeus) is a member of the cormorant family of seabirds.

[[Biographical movie]]

CATEGORIES: Biographical movies

A biographical film or biopic is a movie about a particular person or group of people, based on events that actually happened. These may present the events as they actually happened, or may stretch and adjust the truth for other purposes.

Biographical movies often single out the most important events of the lives involved to focus on. They may also cross over between genres, such as drama, comedy and action.

[[List of Selena songs]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, Lists of songs

Selena was an American singer–songwriter. She became the "Queen of Tejano music" by the early 1990s. She had helped the Tejano genre become very popular in the United States. After dominating the Latin music charts, winning every nominated award and signing a tour sponsorship with Coca-Cola, Selena had begun recording songs for a crossover attempt.

[[Joplin, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, Jasper County, Missouri

Joplin is a city in Jasper County Missouri. In 2011, about 25% of the city was destroyed by an EF5 tornado.

[[Bonsai Kitten]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, Shock sites, Hoaxes

Bonsai Kitten was a satirical website which claimed that you could make a "shaped" cat by putting a kitten in a jar and letting it grow into the shape of the jar. It was named after bonsai, a Japanese art in which trees are shaped. The site was made by a university student with the nickname "Dr. Michael Wong Chang". The site claimed that many different shapes and "containment vessels" are possible, including a cube, a sphere, a wire cage, and even a Klein bottle. Supposedly, the kittens are force-fed through a tube, and the kitten's anus is sealed with super glue.

[[Grey heron]]

CATEGORIES: Pelecaniformes

The grey heron (Ardea cinerea) is a bird that lives in temperate parts of Europe, Asia and also parts of Africa. It has long legs and walks through shallow water looking for food. The bird's scientific name is Ardea cinerea.

The heron is intelligent, and can catch prey so large it can only swallow them with difficulty. Here a green heron uses bread as a bait for fish: YouTube Video

[[Goliath heron]]

CATEGORIES: Pelecaniformes

The Goliath heron (Ardea goliath) is a large wading bird of the heron family Ardeidae. It is found in sub-Saharan Africa, with smaller numbers in Southwest Asia and South Asia.

[[Purple Heron]]

CATEGORIES: Pelecaniformes

The purple heron (Ardea purpurea) is a kind of bird. It has long legs and walk through shallow water looking for food. The purple heron breeds in Africa, central and southern Europe, and southern and eastern Asia.

[[Striated Heron]]

CATEGORIES: Pelecaniformes

The striated heron (Butorides striata) also known as mangrove heron, little heron or green-backed heron, is a small heron.

[[Nauplius]]

CATEGORIES: Crustaceans, Developmental biology

A nauplius (plural: nauplii) is the first larval form of most crustacea. It develops from the egg, and may be followed by later stages before the adult form is reached. In some groups there can be as many as nine larval stages. Sometimes the nauplius stage is passed through in the egg, and then a later stage emerges from the egg.

[[Arnold Skaaland]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2007 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from New York, WWE Hall of Fame

Arnold Skaaland (January 21, 1925 – March 13, 2007) was an American professional wrestler and professional wrestling manager who was best known for wrestling and managing with the World Wide Wrestling Federation/World Wrestling Federation. He was nicknamed "The Golden Boy". During his managing career, he managed Bob Backlund, Tony Parisi, Bruno Sammartino and Rick McGraw. He was inducted into the WWF Hall of Fame in 1994 by Bob Backlund.

[[Fiat Duna]]

CATEGORIES: Fiat automobiles, Front wheel drive vehicles, 1980s automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Fiat Duna is an automobile made by Fiat between 1987 and 2000. It is a sedan and station wagon version of the Fiat Uno.

[[Night of Champions (2011)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in professional wrestling, WWE Night of Champions, Sports in Buffalo, New York, 2011 in New York (state), 21st century in Buffalo, New York, September events

Night of Champions (2011) was a professional wrestling event that was done by WWE. It happened on September 18th, 2011 at the First Niagra Centre in Buffalo, New York. It was the 4th Annual Night of Champions event, and the 11th overall. Seven matches were played. 

[[2010–11 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League seasons, 2010 in North America, 2011 in North America

The 2010–11 NHL season was the 94th season of operation (93rd season of play) of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Dorothée Pousséo]]

CATEGORIES: French voice actors, Child actors, 1979 births, Actors from Paris, Living people

Dorothée Pousséo (born on February 13, 1979 in Paris, France) is a French voice actress.

She is known for being the official French voice of actresses such as Margot Robbie, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen, Brittany Murphy; as well as cartoon characters like Diane in Martin Mystery, Dee Dee in Dexter's Laboratory, and Mandy in The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy.

[[Parallel universe]]

A parallel universe is a universe that is different from the observable universe. This may be due to time travel or other things.

[[Teen Wolf (2011 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 American television series debuts, 2010s American television series, American comedy-drama television series, American fantasy television series, American horror television series, American teen television series, MTV programmes, Television series set in California, English-language television programs

Teen Wolf is an American TV series. It airs on MTV and in reruns on TeenNick. Season 5 is airing June of 2015.

[[Selena (disambiguation)]]

Selena may be for:

[[Odessa, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Odessa is a city in Texas. Odessa had 99,940 people at the 2010 census.

[[Mission, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Mission is a city in Hidalgo County, Texas. 77,058 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[McAllen, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

McAllen is a city in Hidalgo County, Texas. As of the 2010 census 129,877 people lived there. It ranks #22nd as the most populous city in Texas.

[[Municipal corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Urban planning

A municipal corporation is a term used by the local government. An incorporated town is able to create its own laws. These laws are in addition to the laws of the country, province, or state where the town is located.

Municipal corporation happens when an urban neighborhood becomes a self-governing entity under state laws. After this event, an award or declaration is presented by the municipal charter.

[[Hunico]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, WWE wrestlers, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from El Paso, Texas, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Jorge Arias (born September 5, 1977) is a Mexican American professional wrestler. He currently works for the WWE. He is currently portraying the Sin Cara character. He was formerly known by the ring name Hunico. Before working with WWE, Arias was better known under the ring name Incognito. He mainly worked for the Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA) in Mexico and Chikara in the United States. Arias first wrestled under the name "Místico"

[[Lucky Cannon]]

CATEGORIES: American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Florida, Year of birth missing (living people)

Jonathan David "Jon" Emminger is an American professional wrestler better known by the ring names Johnny Prime and Lucky Cannon. He is best known for working with the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), where he appeared on NXT as Lucky Cannon and in their developmental territory, Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) as Johnny Prime.

[[Orlando Cole]]

CATEGORIES: American cellists, 1908 births, 2010 deaths, American teachers

Orlando Cole (August 16, 1908 – January 25, 2010) was a cello teacher who had taught soloists and first cellists in a dozen leading orchestras. Among them are Lynn Harrell, David Cole, Ron Leonard, Owen Carman, Daniel Lee, Lorne Munroe, and Marcie Rosen. He had held master-classes all over the world and continued his seventy-five year teaching career at the Curtis Institute and Temple University with his assistant Metta Watts.

[[Edwin G. Krebs]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2009 deaths, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, American biochemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Iowa

Dr. Edwin G. Krebs (June 6, 1918 – December 21, 2009) was an American biochemist. He and Edmond H. Fischer were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1992 for describing how reversible phosphorylation works as a switch to activate proteins and control different cellular processes.

[[Joseph L. Goldstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, American biochemists, American geneticists, American Nobel Prize winners, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from South Carolina

Joseph L. Goldstein (b. April 18, 1940) is a biochemist and geneticist of Jewish descent. He is from Kingstree, South Carolina. He was given the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine (together with Michael S. Brown) for his research on the metabolism of LDL.

[[International human rights law]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights, International law

International human rights law is a series of the international laws on human rights. International human rights law is based upon the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Charter of the United Nations that declare human dignity and rights of all human being on the earth. Its fundamental philosophy and aim are to prevent war and keep world peace on the earth, with the idea of rule of law. 

[[Genocide Convention]]

CATEGORIES: Genocide, Human rights, International law, 1948, History of the United Nations

The Genocide Convention (formally Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide) is a treaty of the international human rights law on genocide created on 9 December 1948 by United Nations. This is to prevent all form of genocide and its incitation and to show how the actors of those must be punished. 

This Convention protects all ethnic groups and races of any kind of religions.

Now actor of genocide written in this Convention will be judged by the International Criminal Court but there are some countries which do not ratify this Convention and international law on Internationl Criminal Court.

[[Michael Madsen]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Chicago, American movie actors, American movie producers, American photographers, American television actors, American voice actors, Celebrity Big Brother contestants, 1957 births, Living people

Michael Søren Madsen (born September 25, 1957) is an American actor, poet and photographer. He has been in most movies and television series, including Reservoir Dogs, Free Willy, Donnie Brasco, Kill Bill and Sin City. Madsen is also the voice actor for video games, including Grand Theft Auto III, True Crime: Streets of L.A. and DRIV3R.

[[Chris Penn]]

CATEGORIES: Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1965 births, 2006 deaths

Christopher Shannon "Chris" Penn (October 10, 1965 – January 24, 2006) was an American movie and television actor. he is known for being in movies such as  The Wild Life, Reservoir Dogs, Footloose, Rush Hour, True Romance, All the Right Moves and Pale Rider.

[[St. John's IceCaps]]

CATEGORIES: American Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in Canada, St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador

The St. John's IcedCapps are an American Hockey League (AHL) team based in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. Previously the team was the Manitoba Moose and played in Winnipeg, Manitoba.

[[Grand Theft Auto III]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 video games, Grand Theft Auto, Cancelled Nintendo GameCube games, Impact of the September 11 attacks, PlayStation 2 games, Windows games, Xbox games

Grand Theft Auto III is a 2001 open world video game that is the third main entry of the Grand Theft Auto franchise.

[[Lawrence Bender]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, HuffPost writers and columnists, American bloggers

Lawrence Bender (born October 17, 1957) is an American movie producer. He became famous when he was the producer of Reservoir Dogs in 1992. He has produced all of Quentin Tarantino's movies except Death Proof.

In the 1980s, he worked as a grip on the series Tales from the Darkside. In 1989, he produced the movie Intruder, in which leading roles are Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell. He has also been the producer on many other successful movies including Good Will Hunting, The Mexican, the 2007 Academy Award winning movie An Inconvenient Truth, Kill Bill, Pulp Fiction, and the From Dusk Till Dawn trilogy. He was an executive producer of the Legend of Earthsea TV miniseries.

Bender makes cameo appearance in many of the movies he produces: he was a police officer chasing Mr. Pink in Reservoir Dogs, a guest billed as a "long-haired yuppie scum" in both Pulp Fiction and Four Rooms and a hotel clerk in Kill Bill Volume 2.

Since May 2005 Bender has been a blogger at The Huffington Post. He now works in Hollywood running the day-to-day operations of his own production company, Lawrence Bender Productions.  Bender has been working with Nine Inch Nails' Trent Reznor to create a television TV series based on the 2007 album Year Zero.

[[The Cider House Rules (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in Maine, Movies set in the 1920s, Movies set in the 1940s, Movies directed by Lasse Hallström

The Cider House Rules is a 1999 American drama movie. It is set in Maine and was produced by Richard N. Gladstein, Bob Weinstein and Harvey Weinstein and was directed by Lasse Hallström. The Cider House Rules was released on December 17, 1999 in North America. The movie is based on the novel of the same name written by John Irving. The movie received positive reviews with a 72% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 75 out of 100 from Metacritic. The movie won Best Adapted Screenplay and Michael Caine won Best Actor in a Supporting Role at the 72nd Academy Awards.

[[The Bad Girls Club (season 6)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in American television, 2011 television seasons, Bad Girls Club seasons

The Bad Girls Club (season 6) is the sixth season of The Bad Girls Club. It aired on Oxygen on January 10, 2011. 

[[Convention against Torture]]

CATEGORIES: Torture, Human rights, International law

Convention against Torture is a treaty of international human rights law created by United Nations on December 10 1984 that prohibits all kind of torture, any cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment or treatment harming the person's dignity. The Convention entered into force on 26 June 1987. 

The Convention also has the optional protocol that enables national or international organization for human rights investigators to research the prisons in a country that ratifies the protocol for knowing if any torture or inhuman treatments or punishments prohibited by the Convention are done.

[[The Bad Girls Club (season 5)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 in American television, 2010 television seasons, Bad Girls Club seasons

The Bad Girls Club (season 5) (or Bad Girls Club:Miami) was the fifth season of The Bad Girls Club. It aired on Oxygen on August 3, 2010. 

[[Flow (psychology)]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Flow is a term used in psychology to mean the mental state of a person completely immersed in an activity. It is an altered state of consciousness. The person is fully focused, performing actively and successfully. The situation is widely recognized by phrases like in the zone, in the bubble, on the ball, in the moment, wired in, in the groove. The performer almost loses touch with their surroundings: phrases like "lost to the world" reflect this mental absorption.

The term flow was given to this experience by a psychologist, Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. He said it was completely focused motivation. The hallmark of flow is a feeling of spontaneous joy, even rapture, while performing a task. Flow is also described as a deep focus on nothing but the activity – not even oneself or one's emotions.

A flow state can be entered while performing any activity, although it is most likely to occur when one is wholeheartedly performing a task or activity for intrinsic purposes. Intrinsic purposes involve anything that someone does merely because they want to. Extrinsic activities will not cause flow to occur. Extrinsic activities are anything that someone does because there is some other force causing them to do it. Extrinsic activities will not cause flow to occur. Passive activities like taking a bath or even watching TV usually do not elicit flow experiences as individuals have to actively do something to enter a flow state. While the activities that induce flow may vary and be multifaceted, Csikszentmihályi asserts that the experience of flow is similar despite the activity.

[[The Bad Girls Club (season 4)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 in American television, 2009 television seasons, 2010 in American television, 2010 television seasons, Bad Girls Club seasons

The Bad Girls Club 4 was the fourth season of The Bad Girls Club. It aired on Oxygen on December 1, 2009.

[[The Bad Girls Club (season 3)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in American television, 2008 television seasons, 2009 television seasons, Bad Girls Club seasons

The Bad Girls Club (season 3) is the third season of The Bad Girls Club. It aired on Oxygen on December 2, 2008. 

[[The Bad Girls Club (season 2)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in American television, 2007 television seasons, 2008 in American television, 2008 television seasons, Bad Girls Club seasons

The Bad Girls Club season 2 is the second season of The Bad Girls Club. It aired on Oxygen on December 4, 2007. 

[[The Bad Girls Club (season 1)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in American television, 2007 in American television, 2007 television seasons, Bad Girls Club seasons

The Bad Girls Club (season 1) was the first season of The Bad Girls Club. It aired on Oxygen on December 5, 2006.

[[Halifax Mooseheads]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian Hockey League teams, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Ice hockey teams in Canada, Quebec Major Junior Hockey League, 1994 establishments in Canada

The Halifax Mooseheads are a Canadian ice hockey team. They began playing in 1994. The team currently plays in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL). They play their home games in Halifax, Nova Scotia at the Halifax Metro Centre.

[[Johnathan Aitken]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Living people, Medicine Hat Tigers players, Sportspeople from Edmonton, ECHL players

Johnathan James Aitken (born May 24, 1978) is a Canadian retired ice hockey defenceman. Aitken was drafted 8th overall in the 1996 NHL Entry Draft by the Boston Bruins and played three games for them. For the 2000–01 season joined HC Sparta Praha in the Czech Republic. He returned to North America after only a year, and made it back to the NHL during the 2003–04 season with the Chicago Blackhawks, playing 41 games.  Afterwards he headed to the Austrian Hockey League for Klagenfurt AC for the 2006–07 season before retiring from hockey.

[[Ray Allison]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, American Hockey League players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Hartford Whalers players, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Living people, Philadelphia Flyers players

Raymond Peter Allison (born March 4, 1959) is a  Canadian retired professional ice hockey forward who played 7 seasons in the National Hockey League for the Hartford Whalers and Philadelphia Flyers.

[[Edifício Copan]]

CATEGORIES: São Paulo, Skyscrapers in Brazil, 1966 establishments in South America, 1960s establishments in Brazil

Edifício Copan  is a skyscraper in São Paulo, Brazil. It is 140 meters (460 feet) tall and has 38 floors. It was built in 1966. The building was designed by Oscar Niemeyer.

[[UEFA Euro 2012 qualifying Group A]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA Euro 2012 qualifying

This page shows the results for Group A of the UEFA Euro 2012 qualification. Germany qualified, and the Turkey went to the playoffs, which in the end they did not qualify. Germany did not lose a single game, with a record of 10 wins. The top scorer of the group was Miroslav Klose (Germany) with 9 goals.

[[UEFA Euro 2012]]

CATEGORIES: UEFA Euro 2012

The UEFA Euro 2012 was the 14th UEFA European Football Championship tournament. Its formal name was 2012 UEFA European Football Championship. It was held in 8 June to 1 July. All the European football teams could compete. In general the contet of match was more higher than FIFA World Cup. The defending champion was Spain. The tournament was hosted in Poland and Ukraine. 16 teams were qualified for the final group stage. The winner of competition qualifies for the FIFA Confederations Cup.

[[Private property]]

CATEGORIES: Property

Private property is a concept used in law, which is defined as a certain type of thing which is owned and controlled by an individual or a group separate from the state. Private property differs from public property, where such property belongs to all. That way, a person may own a car, but the park in the city is only administered by the city, and belongs to all people (or to no one at all).  

Different schools of thought have different ideas of how private property should be handled.  

For instance, according to capitalism, private property is needed so that a society can work as it should. That way, trade can only be done using private property. As a secondary example, private property in Marxist theory refers to the means of production, such as mines, factories, burger joints, and so on. These are things communists want to be democratically owned by workers. This is different from personal property, such as a toothbrush.  stub

[[Radiata]]

CATEGORIES: Groups of phyla, Taxonomy

The Radiata is a superphylum which includes both the echinoderms and the ctenophores. It is not part of the usual classification system, and is not used by all biologists.

The group includes the radially symmetric animals of the Eumetazoa. The echinoderms, however, are members of the Bilateria, because they exhibit bilateral symmetry in their developing stages. Their radial symmetry is secondary.

Thomas Cavalier-Smith in 1983 defined a subkingdom called Radiata consisting of the phyla Porifera, Myxozoa, Placozoa, Cnidaria and Ctenophora in Radiata, that is, all the animals that are not in Bilateria. 

The Five Kingdom classification of Lynn Margulis and K.V. Schwartz keeps only Cnidaria and Ctenophora in Radiata. 

Cladistic classifications do not recognize Radiata as a clade. The radiata, in this sense, are diploblastic, meaning they have two primary germ layers: endoderm and ectoderm. Cavalier-Smith's use of the term Radiata includes animals with a single germ layer such as sponges.

Although radial symmetry is usually given as a defining characteristic of radiates, a few members of the class Anthozoa, which are now considered as the most basal and oldest group of cnidarians, are actually bilaterally symmetric. 

Newer research strongly indicates that bilateral symmetry evolved before the split between Cnidaria and Bilateria: the radially symmetrical cnidarians have evolved radial symmetry secondarily. This means the bilaterism in species like N. vectensis has a primary origin. Also the free-swimming planula larvae of cnidarians exhibit bilateral symmetry. Ctenophores show biradial symmetry.

[[Wangari Maathai]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from ovarian cancer, Environmentalists, Nobel Peace Prize winners

Wangari Muta Mary Jo Maathai (1 April 1940 – 25 September 2011) was a Kenyan environmentalist, political activist and the first African woman to receive the Nobel Peace Prize in 2004. 

[[Trochophore]]

CATEGORIES: Invertebrates, Developmental biology

A trochophore is a type of larva found in marine plankton. It belongs to animals of several related phyla, in the superphylum Lophotrochozoa.

They have  two or more bands of cilia. By moving their cilia rapidly, a water eddy is created. In this way they control the direction of their movement. Also, in this way they bring their food closer, to capture it more easily.

[[Orthonectida]]

CATEGORIES: Minor phyla, Parasites

Orthonectida is a small phylum of poorly-known parasites of marine invertebrates. They are among the simplest of multi-cellular organisms. 

[[Lophophore]]

CATEGORIES: Invertebrates, Developmental biology

The lophophore is the characteristic feeding organ of four major groups of animals: the Brachiopoda, Bryozoa, Entoprocta, and Phoronida. All lophophores are found in aquatic organisms.

[[Rhombozoa]]

CATEGORIES: Invertebrates, Parasites

The Rhombozoa, or Dicyemida, are a group of tiny parasites that live in the renal appendages of cephalopods.

Classification is controversial. They are probably a new phylum. Traditionally, dicyemids have been grouped with the Orthonectida in the Mesozoa. However, molecular phylogeny indicates that dicyemids may be more closely related to the roundworms. 

[[Besitos]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1988 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"Besitos" ("Kisses") is a song by American singer Selena. The song became the fourth and last single from Selena (1989). The song peaked at number-twenty on the US Hot Latin Tracks.

[[Baila Esta Cumbia]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1990 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"Baila Esta Cumbia" ("Dance This Cumbia") is a song by American singer Selena. The song was the lead single from Ven Conmigo (1990). It peaked at number-one on the Mexican Singles Chart (1994), Italy Singles Chart (1996), Argentinian Singles Chart (1994) and France Singles Chart (1995). It peaked in the top 20 on the US Hot Latin Tracks (1990), Latin Regional Mexican Airplay (1991) chart and the Spanish Singles Chart (1996). It then became one of Selena's signature songs. Her brother, A.B. Quintanilla III remixed the song as "Baila Esta Kumbia". It peaked at number 44 on the US Hot Latin Tracks and number 16 on the Latin Regional Mexican Airplay chart. A.B. performed the song during the Selena ¡VIVE! tribute concert with his band.

[[No Quiero Saber]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1990 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"No Quiero Saber" ("I Don't Want To Know") is a song by American singer Selena. The song was featured at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia as a remix version.

[[Ya Ves]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1990 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"Ya Ves" ("You See") is a song by American singer Selena. It was the second single released from Ven Conmigo (1990). The song was covered at the Selena ¡VIVE! tribute concert. "Ya Ves" was selected as "AMG pick tracks".

[[La Tracalera]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1984 songs, Spanish-language songs

"La Tracalera" ("The Party Girl") is a song by American singer Selena. The song was first recorded in 1985 for The New Girl in Town. It was re-recorded in 1990 for Ven Conmigo. The original version of the song called "El Tracalero" ("The Party Boy") was recorded by Selena's father Abraham Quintanilla Jr. Abraham had his own band called "Los Dinos" from the 1960s-1970s. Anselmo Sanchez Chavez covered the song in 1996.

[[El Chico Del Apartamento 512]]

CATEGORIES: Selena songs, 1994 songs, Songs written by A.B. Quintanilla, Spanish-language songs

"El Chico Del Apartamento 512" ("The Boy In Apartment 512") is the sixth and final single released from Selena's grammy nominated album Amor Prohibido (1994). The song never had a music video because it was released one day before Selena was killed. The song had positive feedback from music critics. The song was performed on C minor with 102 beats per minute. The song was covered by many Latin American artists.

[[Greatest Hits (Selena album)]]

CATEGORIES: Selena albums, 2003 albums, Greatest hits albums

Greatest Hits is a compilation album by American singer Selena. The songs used in the album were all in English. The only two other English songs Selena recorded that did not made it on the album were "Give Me One More Chance" and "Call Me". Both of those songs were on Selena y Los Dinos (1984). The album peaked at number 108 on the Billboard 200 chart in 2003. A special edition of the album was released. It had a DVD of all of Selena's music videos.

[[Momentos Intimos]]

CATEGORIES: Selena albums, 2004 albums, Compilation albums

Momentos Intimos ("Intimate Moments") is a compilation album by American singer Selena. It was released on March 23, 2004.

[[Dos Historias]]

CATEGORIES: Selena albums, 2006 albums, Compilation albums

Dos Historias ("Two Stories") is a compilation album by American singer Selena and Mexican singer Ana Barbara. The album peaked at number three on the US Latin Regional Mexican Albums chart. It also peaked at number 21 on the Top Latin Albums Chart on Billboard in 2006.

[[2011 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 2011 in weather

The 2011 Atlantic hurricane season was one of the most active Atlantic hurricane seasons since 1851. The season started on June 1, 2011 and it ended on November 30, 2011. This season has been "above-average". This means that there has been a lot of tropical cyclones that have developed in the Atlantic basin. The season started when Tropical Storm Arlene formed on June 29. It formed in the Gulf of Mexico. It then made landfall on Veracruz. The storm killed 25 people. The amount of damage was $223 million (2011 USD). After Arlene dissipated, a lot of tropical storms began developing. Most of them developed from a frontal boundary. Which makes this season the first time to have the first eight named storms to have not reached hurricane status.

The record ended when Hurricane Irene formed in late August. Irene also became the first major hurricane (being a category three or higher on the Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale). After Irene dissipated, Hurricane Katia became the second major hurricane of the season. With seventeen tropical storms, only four became hurricanes. The following hurricane was Hurricane Rina. Between September 7-9, there were three tropical cyclones active, which were Katia, Maria and Nate. This information made the Climate Prediction Center issue a La Niña Advisory.

[[Oxygen (TV channel)]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks

Oxygen is a US TV channel, currently available in 65 million homes. It was launched in 2000 and carries programming aimed at women.

[[Kerry Harvick]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1974 births, Country musicians, singers from Texas

Kerry Harvick (born September 10, 1974; Comanche, Texas) is an American country music singer. She first appeared on Oxygen's first season of The Bad Girls Club. 

[[Ireland's Call]]

CATEGORIES: Sport in Ireland, Songs

Ireland's Call is the anthem for the Ireland national rugby union team. The anthem replaced "Amhrán na bhFiann" because the players had came from both Ireland and Northern Ireland.

[[Chinese musical system]]

CATEGORIES: Music, China

The ancient Chinese musical system depends on very ancient mathematics used to determine sound frequencies. The easiest way to explain it is to work through a real example.

Suppose that somebody wanted to make a musical instrument that could play any song in the ancient Chinese system. Here are the instructions:

Make a wooden box 105 cm long and 60 cm wide. Put guides for the strings near each end of the box, and fix it so that these two guides are 99 cm apart. 

Multiply 99 cm by 2/3, which is 66 cm. Place a fret all the way across the box on the 66 cm line.

Multiply 66 cm by 4/3, which is 88 cm. Place a fret along the 88 cm line. 

Multiply 88 cm by 2/3, which is 58.66...6 cm. Place a fret along this line. 

Multiply 58.66...6 cm by 4/3, which is 78.22...2 cm. Place a fret along this line. 

Multiply 78.22...2 cm by 2/3, which is 54.148148...148 cm. Place a fret along this line.

Multiply 54.148148...148 cm by 4/3, which is 69.531 cm. Place a fret along this line.

Multiply 69.531 cm by 2/3, which is 46.354 -- and which is too short, so double it to get 92.708 cm. Place a fret along this line.

Multiply 92.708 cm by 4/3...

Multiply the previous answer by 2/3...

Keep going until you have put down eleven frets.

Counting the frequency on the open string and the frequencies on the fretted strings, for each string there will be 12 defined frequencies.

Tune the bottom string to some basic frequency. Tune the next string to the frequency of the bottom string at the first fret. Tune the third string to the bottom string's second fret. Keep going until you have tuned all twelve strings. 

When you pluck these strings at all the fretted and unfretted positions, you will get 144 frequencies. Some of them will be duplicates, but not as many as you might think because this system is not like the Equal tempered system now used for almost all Western music.

Out of each twelve frequencies on a single string, you can make many selections of either five frequencies (for the pentatonic scales) or seven frequencies (for the heptatonic scales).

Here is a chart showing how frequencies and scales can be produced. The frequency of 440 hertz could have been any other frequency. Once this frequency is chosen, it is multiplied by the ratios to produce the first column of frequencies. Each of these 12 frequencies is used to start its own column. (See the dotted red line for one example.) Any five frequencies in a column can be chosen to make a pentatonic scale, as long as they are not right together and are not more than two apart. 

In the United States, students are taught the scale whose notes are named: "do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, and ti." Those seven (known to many from the "Doe, a deer, a female deer" song) produce a major scale. In Western music we also use a minor scale fairly frequently. But we only have those two. Chinese traditional music uses five different scales of five notes each. It also has pentatonic scales, but they are not discussed in this article.  

[[The Enemy (Higson novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 books, Young adult novels, Horror novels

The Enemy is a young adult horror novel. It was written by English author Charlie Higson. The novel takes place in London. It is about the life of children after a worldwide sickness has turned adults into zombies. It was published by Puffin Books in the UK on 3 September 2009.

[[David Norris]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1944 births, Irish politicians

David Patrick Bernard Norris (born 1 July 1944) is an Irish scholar, independent Senator, and gay and civil rights activist.

He was in the election for President of Ireland in 2011.  If elected, he would have become the world's first openly gay head of state.  He left the race before the election.

Norris lives in his house in Dublin. The house is on North Great Georges Street. When he bought the house he became a landlord.

He was a lecturer in Trinity College Dublin. He is especially interested in James Joyce.

[[Spinneret]]

CATEGORIES: Spiders

A spinneret is the part of a spider's body that makes its silk. Spiders have one, two, or three pairs of spinnerets. The spinnerets are usually close together. 

[[Endocardium]]

CATEGORIES: Heart, Anatomy of the cardiovascular system

The Endocardium is the innermost layer of tissue which lines the inside of the heart. It plays a role in controlling the function of the myocardium, the heart muscle. The endocardium is made of simple epithelial cells similar to those which line blood vessels.

In addition to lining the inside of the heart, the endocardium also regulates heart contractions and aids cardiac embryo development.

[[Selena singles discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies, Selena songs

This is the singles discography page of American singer Selena. This list has her 93 singles, two EPs and eight duets she had made in her music career. Selena was named the "top Latin artist of the '90s" as well as the "Best selling Latin artist of the decade" by Billboard. Mostly because of her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart, including seven number-one hits. To date, Selena has sold over 5,000,000 singles worldwide.

"Contigo Quiero Estar" ("With You, I Want To Be) was the lead single from Selena (1989). The song peaked at number eight on the US Hot Latin Tracks. "Baila Esta Cumbia" ("Dance This Cumbia") was the lead single from Ven Conmigo (1990). The song peaked at number 20 on the Hot Latin Tracks. The song "Buenos Amigos" ("Good Friends") was a duet with Salvadoran singer Alvaro Torres. The song peaked at number-one on the Hot Latin Tracks. It became Selena's and Torres' first number-one single. The song was a non-album single for Selena because it was not included in any of Selena's albums when she was alive. "La Carcacha" ("The Jalopy") became the lead single off of Entre A Mi Mundo (1992). The song peaked at number seven on the Latin Regional Mexican Airplay chart. "Como La Flor" ("Like A Flower") became one of Selena's signature songs. The song peaked at number-one on the Hot Latin Tracks. It became Selena's first song to peak at number-one as a solo artist. "¿Qué Creias?" ("What Did You Think?") became the third single released from Entre A Mi Mundo. The song peaked at number 14 on the Hot Latin Tracks. "Como La Flor", "La Carcacha" and "¿Qué Creias?" helped Selena to be accepted into Mexico. She began touring there for the first time and broke several audience attendance records. After Selena had won her first Grammy Award for Selena Live! (1993), the album released three singles. "No Debes Jugar" ("You Must Not Play Around"), "La Llamada" ("The Phone Call") and "Tu Robaste Mi Corazon" ("You Stole My Heart") peaked within the top five of the Hot Latin Tracks chart.

When Amor Prohibido (1994) was released, it had four number-one singles. Selena became the first Hispanic singer to do this. The four number-one singles were "Amor Prohibido" ("Forbidden Love"), "Bidi Bidi Bom Bom", "No Me Queda Mas" ("There's Nothing Left For Me") and "Fotos y Recuerdos" ("Pictures and Memories"). These songs helped expanded Selena's fan base. The non-album single "Donde Quiera Que Estes" ("Wherever You Are") peaked at number-one on both the Hot Latin Tracks and Latin Regional Mexican Airplay charts. The song was a duet with the Barrio Boyzz. The song made Selena to tour in New York City, Puerto Rico, South America and Central America where she was not known before. The songs "Amor Prohibido" and "No Me Queda Mas" became the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995 in the United States Hispanic communities and Mexico.

Selena began recording songs for her crossover album. She only recorded six by January 20, 1995. She was killed on March 31, 1995. The album was released on July 18, 1995 as Dreaming of You. "I Could Fall in Love" peaked at number-one on the Hot Latin Tracks while also peaking in eight different countries worldwide. "Dreaming of You" peaked at number-one in five different music charts worldwide. The song peaked in 13 different countries worldwide. It sold 4,798,706 copies worldwide, while selling 2,000,000 copies in the United States. The song was certified double-platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America. The song was given 11 certifications worldwide. It is among the best-selling singles worldwide. It is the second-fastest-selling single of 1995 in the United States. The song was the 83rd best-selling single of the 1990s in the United Kingdom. It also became the 65th best-selling single of the 1990s in France. "Dreaming of You" and "I Could Fall in Love" continues to be played on radio stations in the United States. The most recent peak positions for the songs was in 2010. The Barrio Boyzz recorded their duet with Selena in English for the crossover album. The English version stood on Spain's music chart for two years straight. After Selena's murder, eighteen singles were released. Many of those peaked in music charts in the United States, Spanish-speaking countries, France and Canada.

[[Beelzebufo]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Fossils

Beelzebufo was a large frog discovered in the Upper Cretaceous of Madagascar. The media called it 'Devil Toad', and 'The Frog From Hell'. The frog lived  some 70 million years ago.

With a body length of about 16 inches (40.5 cm) the frog was larger than any living frog. Its weight in life was about 9-10 lbs (4.5 kg).

[[Fezouata Formation]]

CATEGORIES: Lagerstätten, Morocco

The Upper and Lower Fezouata formations of Morocco are Burgess Shale type deposits dating to the Lower Ordovician. In the fossilized fauna were numerous organisms previously thought to have died out after the mid-Cambrian. The discovery proves conclusively that the Burgess Shale biota did not go extinct in the Cambrian.

[[1961–62 AHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 in ice hockey, 1962 in ice hockey, American Hockey League, 1961 in North America, 1962 in North America

The 1961–62 AHL season was the 26th season of the American Hockey League. The league initiates the James C. Hendy Memorial Award for outstanding team or league executives. The league resumes East and West Divisions. The John D. Chick Trophy is first awarded for the West Division champions of the regular season. The F. G. "Teddy" Oke Trophy is awarded to East Division champions of the regular season. Eight teams played 70 games each in the schedule. The Springfield Indians finished first overall again in the regular season, and won their third consecutive Calder Cup championship.

[[1961 World Ice Hockey Championships]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 in ice hockey, 20th century in Geneva, Sport in Switzerland, 1960s in Europe

The 1961 World Ice Hockey Championships was the 28th time the Ice Hockey World Championships were held. The tournament was in Geneva and Lausanne, Switzerland from March 1 to March 12, 1961. Canada won their nineteenth international title. It would be the last championship for Canada in thirty-three years. Canada was represented by the Trail Smoke Eaters.

[[1961 Stanley Cup Finals]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 in ice hockey, Chicago Blackhawks, Detroit Red Wings, 1961 in the United States, 1960s in Chicago, 20th century in Detroit, Michigan

The 1961 Stanley Cup Final was played by the Detroit Red Wings and the Chicago Blackhawks. Chicago had not been in the Final since 1944, and Detroit had last played in the Final in 1956. The Blackhawks won the best-of-seven series four games to two, winning their third Stanley Cup. This ended up being the last time Chicago won the Cup until 2010, a 49-year drought.

[[Wolf spider]]

CATEGORIES: Lycosidae

A Wolf spider is a member of the group of spiders whose scientific name is the Lycosidae. Lycos means "wolf" in Greek. These spiders get their name from the way they hunt, which the people who named them thought was like the way wolves hunt. However, wolves hunt in packs but spiders are solitary animals. Their way of hunting is more like that of solitary cats such as the cheetahs.55 They generally wait for their prey to wander close by, and then they rush in to kill it.9

The wolf spiders belong to a large group. The smallest are less than 0.04 inches (1 mm) in body length. The largest are around 1.5 inches (38 mm) in body length. Some wolf spiders spend all of their lives above ground (taking the best shelter they can find), others dig burrows but come out of the burrows to wander about and hunt, and some spend almost all of their lives waiting for passing insects in their burrows.

One species of wolf spider gives us the name that is now used in English for an entirely different kind of spider. This is Hogna tarantula because it found around Taranto, a city in Italy. People there once believed that if a human were bitten by one of these wolf spiders, they would surely die unless made to do a wild dance. Actually, Hogna tarantula does not give bites that need medical help. Any deaths from spiders in the area of Taranto probably came from the local Widow spider.8

After a female wolf spider mates, she creates a clear space on the ground, lays down a rough sheet of silk, and on top of that sheet she makes a silken cup in which she lays her eggs. She next closes the cup, making a round ball, and holds onto it using her spinnerets9 until the babies begin to hatch. She then opens the silk ball and lets the baby spiders come out. They all run up her legs and cover the top part of her body.67-75. There may be more than one hundred baby spiders on her back.9

As you can see from the second photograph, mother wolf spiders carry their baby spiders around on their backs. They protect the babies for a few days, and then the babies leave her and go off on their own.  

[[Andrea Cano]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Italian association football goalkeepers, Italian football managers, Sportspeople from Rome

Andrea Cano (born 18 May 1976) is an Italian football manager and former player. He played as a goalkeeper. He is currently a coach for goalkeepers at Padova.

[[Web feed]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

A web feed is an XML-based document which contains a sequence of content items. Web logs or blogs are a common source for web feeds. However, web feeds may also be associated with different sources other than blogs.

The term syndication is used to describe the availability of a web feed for an information source, such as a blog. This is also known as "publishing" a feed.

The term aggregation is used to describe the process of combining the contents of multiple web feeds, such as for display on a single web page. This is also known as "subscribing" to a web feed.

Web feeds are designed to be machine readable, so there is no requirement that they be destined only for user consumption. For example, business partners could use web feeds to exchange information without any user intervention.

Web feeds are commonly in RSS or Atom "feed" format. They may also be in RDF format.

[[Barcelona-Sagrera]]

CATEGORIES: Spain, Barcelona Metro

Estació de la Sagrera (Sagrera station) is an upcoming major transport railway. It will be in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. The railway is currently under construction. They believe it will be finished by 2016-2020. The train will be at Barcelona Metro station that will serve the north of the city. It will include services from AVE high-speed rail. The Spanish Ministry of Public Works, Generalitat de Catalunya and the Barcelona City Council gave money to have the train completed.

[[Connectivity]]

Connect, connection, connections, connected, or connectivity can be:

[[Cross-conjugation]]

CATEGORIES: Organic chemistry

In chemistry, cross-conjugation is a special type of conjugation (a form of connection between two things) in a molecule. When in a set of 3 Pi bonds two pi bonds interact with each other by "conjugation".

[[Eric Serra]]

CATEGORIES: French composers, 1959 births, Living people

Eric Serra (born September 9, 1959) is a French composer, often working with Luc Besson on his movie scores. He has won many awards for his works.

[[Education in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Education in the United States

Education in the United States is provided by the public sector. The federal, state and local governments control and give funds to help local schools. Public education is available everywhere in the United States. School's curriculum, funds, teaching, employment and other policies are created by the elected school boards. 

[[1961 Memorial Cup]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s in Canada, 1961 in ice hockey, Memorial Cup

The 1961 Memorial Cup final was the 43rd junior ice hockey championship of the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association. The teams involved were the Toronto St. Michael's Majors of the Ontario Hockey Association who played against the Edmonton Oil Kings of the Central Alberta Hockey League. St. Michael's won their 4th Memorial Cup, defeating Edmonton 4 games to 2.

[[Ergonomic keyboard]]

CATEGORIES: Computers

An ergonomic keyboard is a computer keyboard. It has a more comfortable, ergonomic design to lower the chances of muscle strain and a lot of other related problems. These keyboards are created in a "V" shape. This can allow the right and left hand to type in a more natural position.

[[1962 Memorial Cup]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 in ice hockey, Memorial Cup, 1960s in Canada

The 1962 Memorial Cup final was the 44th junior ice hockey championship of the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association. The teams playing were the Hamilton Red Wings of the Ontario Hockey Association who completed against the Edmonton Oil Kings. Hamilton won their 1st Memorial Cup, defeating Edmonton 4 games to 1. 

[[1961 in sports]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 in sports

1961 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.

[[2011 in sports]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in sports

2011 in sports will describe the year's events in world sport.

[[Rafael Correa]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, People from Guayaquil, Presidents of Ecuador

Rafael Vicente Correa Delgado  born April 6, 1963 in Guayaquil, was the 43rd President of Ecuador, and in 2009-2010 was the president pro tempore of the UNASUR.

Correa was elected President of Ecuador in late 2006 and took office in January 2007. In December 2008, he declared Ecuador's national debt illegitimate, based on the argument that it had been contracted by despotic prior regimes.

Correa's first term in office had been due to end on January 15, 2011, but the new approved constitution, written by the new National Assembly, called for general elections for April 26, 2009. In that election, Rafael Correa won in the first round with 51.9% of votes counted.

[[Elissa]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Lebanese Christians, Lebanese singers

Elissar Zakaria Khoury (إليسار زكريا خوري) was born on October 27, 1972 in Deir el Ahmar, Lebanon. She is known simply as "Elissa". She is a Lebanese singer. 

[[Bastanak]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums

Bastanak (بستناك; in "Waiting For You") is the fifth studio album by Lebanese singer Elissa. The album won the World Music Award in 2007. Elissa was awarded "Best Lebanese Artist of the Year". The album peaked at number-one in eight Arab music charts.

[[Order of the Solar Temple]]

CATEGORIES: Secret societies, Geneva

The Order of the Solar Temple (or Ordre du Temple Solaire, International Chivalric Organization of the Solar Tradition) was a secret society that existed in the second half of the 20th century and that was based on the belief that the Knights Templar still existed. OTS was started by Joseph Di Mambro and Luc Jouret in 1984 in Geneva as l'Ordre International Chevaleresque de Tradition Solaire (OICTS) and renamed Ordre du Temple Solaire. OTS is considered to be a sect. The organisation was involved in mass suicides in France, Switzerland and Canada. The beliefs of the society were a mix of protestant Christianity and New Age philosophy; it also used and changed different Freemason rituals. 

[[Epistemic community]]

CATEGORIES: Community

Epistemic community is a large network of people who work towards a common knowledge-based goal—like the community of people who work together to create and maintain Wikipedia.

An epistemic community is a group of people who do not have any specific history together. They join to form a kind of community based on a similar focus on an information-based project.  

The community group can be made of people with a range of special interests.

This kind of community has four characteristics or typical features:

The shared explanations for how the community functions includes "the appalling silence of  good people", which encourages the growth of perverse incentives.

An example of a scientific epistemic community is the 1975 Mediterranean Action Plan (MAP).  This is a marine pollution control regime for the Mediterranean Sea developed by the United Nations.

[[Biosemiotics]]

CATEGORIES: Systems theory, Semiotics

Biosemiotics is a science where the models of sign processes are used to study living systems. Unlike biophysics, biochemistry and molecular biology, sciences where the quantitative physical laws are used to explain the living things, biosemioticians study the organisms and phenomena of life on the basis of qualitative semiotic principles.

[[University of Tartu]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Europe, Estonia, 1632 establishments, 1630s establishments in Europe

University of Tartu is the main university in Estonia. It is in Tartu. It is the second oldest university in Northern Europe. It was established in 1632. 

The university is particularly famous due to its semiotics school established by Juri Lotman.

[[Marcel Dionne]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Art Ross Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey centres, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Lady Byng Memorial Trophy winners, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, New York Rangers players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Quebec Major Junior Hockey League players

Marcel Elphege "Little Beaver" Dionne (born August 3, 1951) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He played 18 seasons in the National Hockey League for the Detroit Red Wings, Los Angeles Kings and New York Rangers. Dionne entered the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1992.

[[Infant mortality]]

CATEGORIES: Death, Statistics

Infant mortality is a measure of how many babies die during the first 12 months after birth. It is usually measured as being a number of deaths for every thousand births. The rate of infant mortality in a given place is the total number of babies dying under one year of age divided by the total number of live births during the year, then all multiplied by 1,000. For example, in 2009 the infant mortality rate in the USA was 6.8. That means for every 1000 births, 6.8 babies will die before the age of one.

[[What a Girl Wants]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 songs, Christina Aguilera songs, Billboard Rhythmic Songs number-one singles

"What a Girl Wants" is a 1999 pop song by American singer Christina Aguilera, from her first album Christina Aguilera. It peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100. Aguilera got a Grammy Award nomination for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance with this song.

[[Bryan Trottier]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Art Ross Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey centres, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Calder Trophy winners, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Lethbridge Broncos players, Living people, New York Islanders players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Stanley Cup champions, Swift Current Broncos players

Bryan John Trottier (born July 17, 1956) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey centre who played 18 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the New York Islanders and Pittsburgh Penguins. He won four Stanley Cups with the Islanders, two with the Penguins and one as an assistant coach with the Colorado Avalanche.

On August 4, 2014, Trottier was hired to be an assistant coach of the Buffalo Sabres.

[[Woohoo]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 songs, Christina Aguilera songs, Nicki Minaj, Songs about sexuality

"Woohoo" is a song sung by Christina Aguilera and Nicki Minaj, from Aguilera's 2010 album Bionic. The song was written by Aguilera, Minaj, Claude Kelly, Jamal "Polow da Don" Jones and Ester Dean. It is a uptempo electrohop song with R&B and hip hop influences; lyrically it speaks of cunnilingus. The song was released on May 18, 2010 as the second single from Aguilera's Bionic album.

[[Australian gold rush]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in Australia, Gold rushes, 1850s

The Australian gold rush was a large number of gold discoveries in Australia. Thousands of people came to Australia in the hope of finding a lot of gold and becoming rich. The rush started in 1851 when gold was found near Bathurst, New South Wales and ended with the last rush in 1893 to Kalgoorlie, Western Australia. At each place gold was easily found in rivers and creeks. This was known as alluvial gold and could be found by individual miners using very basic equipment such as a spade and a dish. In most places this alluvial gold was taken in the first few months. To get at the gold that was buried deeper in the ground meant that miners needed to work together and dig tunnels. Eventually large companies were started to raise money so that deep gold mines could be built.

The gold rushes happened when alluvial gold was found. Miners would quickly move there in the hope of being the first to find the surface gold. For example, miners rushing to Clunes, Victoria in August 1851, quickly changed their minds and went to Buninyong when they heard of a new gold discovery. Weeks later gold was found at Ballarat a few miles to the north and within six weeks there were more than 10,000 people digging. But by 1852 most miners had left Ballarat and rushed to the new goldfields at Bendigo.48  In 1854, miners in Ballarat were angry and upset at paying for gold licences. They burned their licences and raised the Eureka Stockade flag in protest. The miners fought soldiers and police officers to protect their rights. This was called the Eureka Stockade. Many people died, but afterwards the miners didn't have to pay for their licences anymore.

The gold rush finished at the end of the 1850s, but gold was still found throughout Australia up until the 1890s.

[[Romney Marsh]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of England, Kent, Sussex

Romney Marsh is a coastal marshland of southern England. It runs from Hythe in Kent to Rye in East Sussex.  It covers about 100 miles2 (260 km2). Romney Marsh is one of three English wetlands, the others being The Fens of East Anglia and the Somerset Levels.

Much of the area has been reclaimed over the centuries, and is now flat farmland. Before the area was drained, it was a cause of malaria among the inhabitants. For much of its history, the Marsh was fringed by a lagoon, which was protected by a shingle beach at Dymchurch.

The Marsh still contains some water features, particularly the Royal Military Canal, completed in 1809, and the River Rother.

At Romney Marsh the coast is at its closest to France, and was several times the point of invasion. In AD 892, a Danish fleet of 250 ships sailed right into the River Rother and took the fortress at Appledore (allegedly built by King Arthur), which they destroyed.

The Romans used the Romney area for a salt industry. Pans of brackish water were left to evaporate, and the salt collected for use in food.

The marsh includes two of the ancient Cinque Ports, New Romney and Hythe, and two ancient towns, Rye and Winchelsea. New Romney was once a port, but is now a mile and a half from the sea. It is the main centre of population on the Marsh.

[[Padua Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Europe, Buildings and structures in Italy, Padua, Transport in Italy

Padua Airport or Gino Allegri (Aeroporto di Padova “Gino Allegri”) QPA, in Padua, Italy, is the principal airport serving Padua.

[[Toxaphene]]

CATEGORIES: Organic compounds

Toxaphene is a chemical substance that is very toxic. It is a persistent organic pollutant, and one of the twelve substances listed in the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants. Its use is banned since 1993. It was used as an insecticide. It was mainly the cotton and soybean growers who used it. It was also used to treat Mange in cattle. The substance damages the lungs, the nervous system and the kidneys. It is a carcinogen and causes mutations and birth defects. Because it is very volatile, it travels easily through the environment. 

[[Eduard Strauss]]

CATEGORIES: 1835 births, 1916 deaths, Austrian composers

Eduard Strauss (b. Vienna, 15 March 1835, d. Vienna, 28 December 1916) was a Viennese composer of light music. He was also a conductor. He was the brother of the more famous composers Johann Strauss II and Josef Strauss, the son of Johann Strauss I, and the father of Johann Strauss III.

[[Jug (container)]]

CATEGORIES: Containers

A jug is a type of container that holds liquid (e.g. water). It has an opening that is often small. This is where the liquid is poured from. Jugs nearly always have a handle.

[[Paul Goldschmidt]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, American baseball players, Arizona Diamondbacks players, Sportspeople from Wilmington, Delaware

Paul Edward Goldschmidt (born September 10, 1987 in Wilmington, Delaware) is an American baseball player. He currently plays as a first baseman for the Arizona Diamondbacks of Major League Baseball (MLB). He debuted for the Diamondbacks on August 1, 2011 in a game against the San Francisco Giants.

[[Dendritic cell]]

CATEGORIES: Blood cells, Immunology

Dendritic cells (DCs) are white blood cells forming part of the mammalian immune system. They process antigen material from pathogens and put it on their surface. There it touches other cells of the immune system.  So, dendritic cells are antigen-presenting cells. They act as messengers between the innate and adaptive immune systems.

Dendritic cells are present in tissues in contact with the external environment. These tissues are the skin, and the inner lining of the nose, lungs, stomach and intestines. They can also be found in an immature state in the blood.

[[Ralph Steinman]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2011 deaths, Canadian academics, Canadian Jews, Canadian Nobel Prize winners, Canadian physicians, Canadian scientists, Cell biology, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Harvard University alumni, Immunologists, Jewish academics, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Jewish scientists, People from Montreal, Scientists from New York City

Ralph Marvin Steinman (January 14, 1943 – September 30, 2011) was a Canadian immunologist and cell biologist at Rockefeller University. He studied a kind of cell in the immune system and called them dendritic cells. He made these discoveries while working in the laboratory of Zanvil A. Cohn. He was of Jewish descent.

On October 3, 2011, the Nobel Committee announced that Steinman had received one-half of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for "his discovery of the dendritic cell and its role in adaptive immunity". The other half went to Bruce Beutler and Jules Hoffmann, for "their discoveries concerning the activation of innate immunity". However, the committee did not know that Steinman had died three days earlier, on September 30, from pancreatic cancer. The committee considered what to do about Steinman's prize, since the rule is that the prize is not awarded posthumously.

The committee later decided that, as the decision to award the prize "was made in good faith", they would not change the award.

Steinman's daughter said that he had joked the previous week with his family about hanging on until the prize announcement. Steinman said: "I know I have got to hold out for that. They don't give it to you if you have passed away. I got to hold out for that".

Steinman had received numerous other awards and recognitions for his life-long work on dendritic cells, such as the Albert Lasker Award (2007), the Gairdner Foundation International Award (2003), and the Cancer Research Institute William B. Coley Award (1998). In addition, he was made a member of Institute of Medicine (U.S.A.; elected 2002) and the National Academy of Sciences (U.S.A.; elected 2001).

[[Residual-current device]]

CATEGORIES: Electrical wiring, Safety, Hardware (mechanical)

A ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCI), or Residual Current Device (RCD) is a type of circuit breaker. This type shuts off electric power (or breaks the electrical circuit),   to protect people from an electric shock caused when some of the current travels through a person's body due to an electrical fault such as a short circuit, insulation failure, or equipment that is not working right. 

Standard  circuit breakers shut off power when the current is too high, like 10, 15, or 20 amps. This protects machinery, and is often good enough to prevent hurting people. 

The GFCI / RCD, however, breaks the circuit when it detects an imbalance of only 0.005 amps (0.030 amps in Australia and some European and Asian countries).  Even this small amount of current, 0.030 amps, going through one human body might possibly kill, by causing paralysis of skeletal muscles and stopping the human heart. 

A standard circuit breaker protects the house electrical wires, receptacles and switches, and appliances and fixtures from dangerous conditions, which could contribute to overheating and possible fire.  A GFCI / RCD on the other hand, protects people from shock and electrocution and is often found in bathrooms or kitchens, but more specifically where electrical devices may be used near sources of water. While using electrical devices in these locations, someone's bare skin may be in contact with water or a wet floor or metal fixtures.  Any of these can provide an alternate path for current to travel in the case of an electrical fault. 

A GFCI / RCD can also prevent dangers from short circuits and other electrical faults that don't involve humans such as a low current short where the current never reaches the trigger point for a circuit breaker, e.g. a live wire falls in a tub of water or moist soil and only 1 or 2 amps of current flow.

[[Calico cat]]

CATEGORIES: Cats, Chromosomes

Calico cat is an American name for cats with three colors. Outside of North America they are usually called tortoiseshell cats or 'tortie-and-white'. A calico cat has a coat of orange or brown and black spots on a white background.  It is not a breed of cat.

Nearly all calico cats are female.  There are male calico cats, but they are very rare. Only one of every 3000 calico cats are male.

[[Bruce Beutler]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, American geneticists, American Nobel Prize winners, American physicians, Immunologists, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Chicago, University of Chicago alumni

Bruce Alan Beutler M.D. (born December 29, 1957 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American immunologist and geneticist of Jewish descent. Together with Jules Hoffmann, he received one-half of the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, for "discoveries concerning the activation of innate immunity" (the other half went to Ralph Steinman for "his discovery of the dendritic cell and its role in adaptive immunity").

Beutler is currently Director of the Center for the Genetics of Host Defense at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, Texas and Professor and Chairman of the Department of Genetics at The Scripps Research Institute, in La Jolla, California. His father, Ernest Beutler, a hematologist and medical geneticist, was also a Professor and Department Chairman at Scripps.

[[Jules Hoffmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, French academics, French biologists, French Nobel Prize winners, Immunologists

Jules A. Hoffmann (born 2 August 1941) is a Luxembourg-born French biologist. He is a research director and member of the board of administrators of the National Center of Scientific Research (CNRS) in Strasbourg, France. In 2007, he became President of the French Academy of Sciences. 

Together with Bruce Beutler, Hoffmann received one-half of the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for "their discoveries concerning the activation of innate immunity". Hoffmann discovered the function of the fruit fly Toll gene in innate immunity. Its mammalian homologues, the toll-like receptors, were discovered by Beutler. Toll-like receptors identify constituents of other organisms like fungi and bacteria, and trigger an immune response. This explains how septic shock can be triggered by bacterial remains.

[[Autoimmune disease]]

CATEGORIES: Autoimmune diseases

Autoimmune disease is when the body's immune system attacks its own body. The function of the immune system is to recognise and reject foreign bodies like bacteria. Sometimes the system goes wrong, and the body itself gets damaged by its immune system. Examples are:

[[Factoid]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

Factoid is stating a fact that is not backed up by evidence.  The factoid may not be trusted because

Factoids become widely treated as if they were true.   

In 1973, the term factoid was created and first used by Norman Mailer. 

A factoid is "an item of unreliable information which is repeated so often that it becomes accepted as a fact".  The most important thing is that the factoid is widely believed.  

A factoid refers to something that looks like a fact, could be a fact, but in fact is not a fact.

The term can also be used to describe partial information without context.

[[Allotropes of carbon]]

CATEGORIES: Carbon

There are several allotropes of carbon.   Diamond and graphite are the most famous.  Graphite is a conductor, a semimetal (an element that is partially a metal and a nonmetal, such as black phosphorus and grey selenium). It can be used, for instance, as the material in the electrodes of an electrical arc lamp. Graphite is the most stable form of solid carbon ever discovered.

Allotropes are different forms of the same chemical element. All elements are made up uniquely of their own atoms.  Any physical differences are because of how the atoms are joined together. Many elements show allotropy because there are a number of ways in which the atoms can be linked together. Also there are different ways in how the molecules can be arranged to make larger structures.

Diamond is one of the best known allotropes of carbon. Its hardness and high dispersion of light make it good for use in jewellery. It also has industrial uses. Diamond is the hardest known natural mineral. This makes it an excellent abrasive. A diamond also holds its luster well. Both diamond and graphite have extremely high melting point, which is unusual for nonmetallic element.

[[SpySheriff]]

CATEGORIES: Malware, Spyware

SpySheriff, also known as  Brave Sentry, SpyAxe, SpywareSheriff,   Pest Trap,   SpyTrooper, Spywareno, and MalwareAlarm, is malware that pretends to be real anti-spyware program. SpySheriff tries to trick the user into buying the program by making false warnings and alerts. It is very difficult to remove SpySheriff from computers, since it hides its parts in "System Restore" folders. SpySheriff also blocks some parts of the computer's administrative tools. Like other rogue antivirus programs, SpySheriff asks the user to register when they click "Remove found threats". SpySheriff can be removed by real antivirus programs.

[[Lunokhod 1]]

CATEGORIES: Soviet spacecraft, Moon, Planetary rovers

Lunokhod 1 was a lunar rover made by the Soviet Union. It was part of the Lunokhod programme. It was the first man made rover (vehicle) to land on another planet. It landed on the Moon on November 17, 1970. It drove around on the Moon for nearly a year, collecting information about the soil and landscape. The Lunokhod had only two speeds, 1 km/h or 2 km/h. It had four TV cameras and was controlled by a five person team on Earth.

It was lost for almost 40 years, but the space rocket which delivered the rover to the Moon was found in photos taken by the NASA Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter. Scientists were then able to follow the rover's tracks and found the rover about 10 km away.  They can now send laser beams to a reflector on the rover which will send them back to Earth. This will help them with measurements to find the exact centre of the Moon.

[[Salmonella enterica]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-negative bacteria, Microbiology

Salmonella enterica is a rod-shaped bacterium. It is a member of the genus Salmonella.

It causes typhoid fever. The symptoms of typhoid fever include nausea, vomiting, and fever. The main source of infection is from swallowing infected water. Food may also be able to pick up the bacterium if it is washed or grown with contaminated water.

[[Irene Castle]]

CATEGORIES: American animal rights activists, 1893 births, 1969 deaths, American dancers, American movie actors

[[Medusa (biology)]]

CATEGORIES: Cnidarians

In biology, a medusa (plural: medusae) is a form of cnidarian in which the body is shaped like an umbrella. The other main body-form is the polyp. 

Medusae vary from bell-shaped to the shape of a thin disk, scarcely convex above and only slightly concave below. The upper or aboral surface is called the exumbrella and the lower surface is called the subumbrella; the mouth is on the lower surface, which may be partially closed by a membrane extending inward from the margin (called the velum). The digestive cavity consists of the gastrovascular cavity and radiating canals which extend toward the margin; these canals may be simple or branching, and vary in number from few to many. The margin of the disk bears sensory organs and tentacles.

In the class Hydrozoa, medusae are the sexual individuals of many species, alternating in the life cycle with asexual polyps. The medusa form of Hydrozoans are known as hydromedusae. A polyp is the form that attaches to a surface, while a medusa is the form that is free-floating; a species of cnidarian may take each form in a different phase of its life.

The medusa form predominates in the classes Scyphozoa (the common, colourful, large jellyfish) and Cubozoa. Except for freshwater hydrozoans like Craspedacusta sowerbyi, these are the only classes in which medusae appear.

Medusae may have many tentacles with which they catch their prey. Sometimes, people bathing in the ocean are touched by a medusa. Their tentacles are long and thin and covered in venomous stinging cells (known as nematocysts). They inject poison which immobilizes small fish. People who are stung should seek medical attention. There have been some deaths after severe medusa stings.

[[Expenditure]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

In economics an expenditure is when a company buys fixed assets that will create a benefit in the future, or when the company upgrades existing assets so that they can be used for a longer time. This constitutes an investment, as the benefits of the use usually last much longer than the fiscal year. Depreciation also happens: the cost that the company took to upgrade or buy the assets will usually not be deducted directly, in one year; depending on the form of calculation used, a part of the cost will be deducted each year, as a form of expense.

[[UN Women]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 establishments, United Nations, Organizations in New York City, Human rights organizations, Women

UN Women is an organization of the United Nations made in 2010. It was made from United Nations Development Fund for Women for equality of gender and women's rights. Michelle Bachelet was the president of the UN Women.

[[Ruslan Salei]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, 2011 deaths, Aviation deaths, American Hockey League players, Belarusian ice hockey players, Colorado Avalanche players, Detroit Red Wings players, Florida Panthers players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Mighty Ducks of Anaheim players, People from Minsk, Ice hockey defencemen

Ruslan "Rusty" Salei (Belarusian: Руслан Салей; November 2, 1974 – September 7, 2011) was a Belarusian professional ice hockey player. During 14 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) he played for the Detroit Red Wings, Colorado Avalanche, Florida Panthers and the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim. On September 7, 2011, the Yakovlev Yak-42 passenger aircraft, carrying the entire Lokomotiv team including Salei crashed near Yaroslavl on its way to Minsk, Belarus.

[[Mr. Know It All]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Kelly Clarkson songs

"Mr. Know It All" is a breakup song by Kelly Clarkson, released in September 2011. Its theme focuses on people that think as though they know it all, but don't really know anything. Mr. Know It All is among many hit songs from Clarkson.

[[Andrei Kostitsyn]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Belarusian ice hockey players, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Nashville Predators players

Andrej Aliehavič Kaścicyn (Belarusian: Андрэй Алегавiч Касціцын; born February 3, 1985), better known as Andrei Kostitsyn, is a Belarusian professional ice hockey forward. Kostitsyn plays for the Montreal Canadiens of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has a younger brother who also plays in the NHL for the Nashville Predators named Sergei.

[[Zygomycota]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi

Zygomycota, or zygote fungi, is a large group of 1600 species of fungi. 

Fungi are put into groups by the way they reproduce. The name Zygomycota comes from zygosporangia, where strong and tough round shaped spores are formed during sexual reproduction. 

They are mostly found living in soil or on decaying plant or animal material. Some are parasites of plants, insects, and small animals. Others form symbiotic relationships with plants, where the plant and the fungi need each other to grow. 

Zygomycete hyphae may be a syncytium, that is, having a mass of nuclei not divided into separate cells. On occasion these can be divided into separate parts by a cell wall called a septum. This only happens where gametes are formed, or to wall off dead hyphae.

[[Sébastien Bordeleau]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, American Hockey League players, French ice hockey players, Hull Olympiques players, Ice hockey centres, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Living people, Minnesota Wild players, Montreal Canadiens players, Nashville Predators players, Phoenix Coyotes players, Sportspeople from Vancouver

Sébastien Bordeleau (born February 15, 1975) is a Canadian-born French professional ice hockey forward, who plays for EHC Biel. NHL player Paulin Bordeleau is his father.

[[Philippe Bozon]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, American Hockey League players, French ice hockey players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, Saint-Jean Castors players, St. Louis Blues players

Philippe Bozon (born November 30, 1966 in Chamonix, Haute-Savoie, France) is a former professional ice hockey player who played for the St. Louis Blues in the National Hockey League (NHL). Bozon was inducted into the IIHF Hall of Fame in 2008.

[[Nizari]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic denominations

The Nizari are the third biggest group of Shiite Ismailites. They emphasize social justice, pluralism and human reason in the framework of Islam. They are the second-largest group of Shiites. There are about 15-20 million, spread over many countries; in Pakistan up to 05% of the people may follow this faith. Nizari still have an imam that is descended from Ali, the current imam is Karim Aga Khan IV.

[[Invisible College]]

CATEGORIES: History of science, Royal Society, 17th century establishments in England

The Invisible College was the name given to themselves by a group of like-minded scientists and natural philosophers in England in the mid-17th century.  The informal association is considered to have been one of the origins of the Royal Society.

The purpose of the invisible college was to encourage each other to develop scientific knowledge through experiments and other kinds of investigation.

Some of the members of the Invisible College were among the founders of the Royal Society in 1660, including Robert Boyle, John Wilkins and Samuel Hartlib.

[[List of WWE Divas Champions]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment championships, Lists of professional wrestlers

The Divas Championship is a professional wrestling championship owned by the WWE. The wrestlers with the most reigns as Divas champion are Eve Torres and AJ Lee with 3 each. The longest reigning champion is Nikki Bella with the aid of her sister brie Bella, holding the championship for 301 days. There is no longer a current Divas champion as the  WWE doesn't want the  women to be classed as a diva and now calls them wwe superstars like the men 

[[Steve Wozniak]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, People from San Jose, California

Steven Gary Wozniak (August 11, 1950 - ) is an American computer engineer.  He is often referred to as "The Woz".  He is from San Jose, California.  In the 1970s, he and Steve Jobs founded Apple Inc..  Wozniak designed the Apple I and Apple II computers.  Wozniak left Apple in the 1980s, but still owns Apple stock.  He has founded several other Silicon Valley companies.  Wozniak holds the patent for the microcomputer.

[[Krzysztof Oliwa]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Calgary Flames players, Columbus Blue Jackets players, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, New York Rangers players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Polish ice hockey players, ECHL players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Krzysztof Artur Oliwa (pronounced '; born April 12, 1973) is a Polish former professional ice hockey player.

[[Edward Leier]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Polish ice hockey players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey centres

Edward "Eddie" Leier (born 3 November 1927) is a Polish-born former baseball player, track athlete, and ice hockey player. As a professional ice hockey player he played two seasons with the Chicago Black Hawks of the National Hockey League.

[[Knut Andresen]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Norwegian ice hockey players

Knut Andresen (born 1959 in Asker, Norway) is a former Norwegian ice hockey player who played for the Norwegian national ice hockey team at the 1980 Winter Olympics.

[[Nik Antropov]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, American Hockey League players, Atlanta Thrashers players, Canadian ice hockey centres, Kazakhstani ice hockey players, Living people, Naturalized citizens of Canada, New York Rangers players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Winnipeg Jets players

Nikolai Aleksandrovich Antropov (Russian: Николай Александрович Антропов; born February 18, 1980) is a former Kazakh professional ice hockey forward for the Winnipeg Jets of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Kevin Dallman]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Kazakhstani ice hockey players, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, St. Louis Blues players, Ontario Hockey League players

Kevin Jonathan Dallman (born February 26, 1981) is a former Kazakhstani-Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman that plays for and captains Barys Astana of the KHL. He also played for the Boston Bruins, St. Louis Blues, and Los Angeles Kings of the National Hockey League (NHL).

Dallman became a citizen of Kazakhstan and is now eligible to play for the country in international competitions. Kevin has also expressed interest in playing for Kazakhstan internationally.

[[Alliance, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

Alliance, Nebraska is an average-sized city in the panhandle of Nebraska. The community consists of mostly farmers and ranchers.

[[Yelena Chernykh]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2011 deaths, Russian stage actors

Yelena Chernykh (née Kolesnichenko; August 24, 1979—October 4, 2011) was a Russian theatre actress.

[[Brian Schmidt]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Harvard University alumni, Australian scientists, Astrophysicists, 1967 births, Australian Nobel Prize winners, American Nobel Prize winners, Australian academics, Scientists from Montana, Australian educators, People from Missoula, Montana

Brian P. Schmidt (born February 24, 1967) is a Distinguished Professor, Australian Research Council Laureate Fellow and astrophysicist at the Australian National University Mount Stromlo Observatory and Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics.  He is widely known for his research in using supernovae as Cosmological Probes.  He currently holds an Australia Research Council Federation Fellowship.  Schmidt shared both the 2006 Shaw Prize in Astronomy and the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physics with Saul Perlmutter and Adam Riess for providing evidence that the expansion of the universe is accelerating.

[[Crab Nebula]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae, Supernovae

The Crab Nebula (catalogue designations M1, NGC 1952, Taurus A) is a supernova remnant and 'pulsar wind nebula' in the constellation of Taurus. The nebula was observed by John Bevis in 1731; it corresponds to a bright supernova recorded by Chinese  and Islamic astronomers in 1054. In 1840, astronomer William Parsons gave it the name it has today.

The nebula is about 6,500 light-years (2 kpc) from Earth. It has a diameter of 11 ly (3.4 pc) and expands at a rate of about 1,500 kilometers per second.  It is part of the Perseus Arm of the Milky Way Galaxy.

At the center of the nebula lies the Crab pulsar, a neutron star (or spinning ball of neutrons), 28–30 km across, which emits pulses of radiation from gamma ray bursts to radio waves with a spin rate of 30.2 times per second. The nebula was the first astronomical object identified with a historical supernova explosion.

The nebula acts as a source of radiation for studying celestial bodies between it and us. In the 1950s and 1960s, the Sun's corona was mapped from observations of the Crab's radio waves passing through it, and in 2003, the thickness of the atmosphere of Saturn's moon Titan was measured as it blocked out X-rays from the nebula.

The cloudy remnants of SN 1054 are now known as the Crab Nebula. The nebula is also referred to as Messier 1 or M1, being the first Messier object catalogued in 1758.

[[Trackball]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware

In computing, a trackball is a pointing input device. It consists of a ball held by a socket containing sensors to detect a rotation of the ball about two axes.  It is like an upside-down mouse with a ball that sticks out.  The user rolls the ball with the thumb, fingers or the palm of the hand to move a cursor and can click one of two buttons (identical to mouse buttons) near the trackball to select desktop objects or position the cursor for text entry.  Currently only three major companies: Logitech, A4Tech and Kensington make many of them.  Microsoft was once a major producer. 

Large trackballs are sometimes seen on computerized special-purpose workstations, such as the radar consoles in an  air traffic control room, or sonar equipment on a ship or submarine, or computer-aided design. Potentiometers capture the trackball orientation.

Many notebook and laptop computers in the late 20th century used a small trackball.  It was usually located in front of the keyboard toward the user.  IBM's ThinkPad series of notebook computers used a "pointing stick", called a TrackPoint, that was integrated into the middle of the keyboard keys.

[[Binary pulsar]]

CATEGORIES: Binary stars, Relativity, Variable stars

A binary pulsar is a pulsar with a binary companion, often a white dwarf or neutron star. In at least one case, the double pulsar PSR J0737-3039, the companion star is another pulsar as well.  

Binary pulsars are one of the few objects which allow physicists to test general relativity in the case of a strong gravitational field. Although the binary companion to the pulsar is usually difficult or impossible to observe, the timing of the pulses from the pulsar can be measured with extraordinary accuracy by radio telescopes. Binary pulsar timing has indirectly confirmed the existence of gravitational radiation and verified Einstein's general theory of relativity.

[[Zacarias Moussaoui]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Al-Qaeda people, French criminals, French prisoners, Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment, September 11 attacks

Zacarias Moussaoui (زكريا موسوي, Zakariyyā Mūsawī; born May 30, 1968) is a French citizen who plead guilty to conspiring to kill citizens of the United States as part of the September 11 attacks. As a result of his conviction, he is serving a life sentence without parole at the Federal ADX Supermax prison in Florence, Colorado.

[[Massari]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Massari, Canadian singers, Lebanese Muslims, Naturalized citizens of Canada

Sari Abboud (ساري عبّود) or simply known as Massari (مصاري) which means "money" in Arabic, is a Lebanese-born contemporary R&B/hip-hop singer. Massari was born in Beirut, Lebanon on December 10, 1980. His family moved to Canada while he was teenager. Massari began performing at a young age. Massari released his debut album Massari in 2005. The album was certified gold by the CRIA for selling 50,000 copies in that country alone. In 2009, Massari released Forever Massari. The album sold over 120,000 copies in Lebanon and Canada, combined. 

[[Kid Nation]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 television series debuts, CBS network shows, American reality television series, English-language television programs

Kid Nation was a reality show. It first aired on the CBS network on September 19, 2007. The show featured 40 children, aged 8–15, living in a ghost town named "Bonanza Town". No one had lived in the town since the 19th century. The children were required to create a functioning society in the town, as well as set up a government system used to solve problems in the town.

At the end of each episode the council awards a cash prize which is a "gold star" worth $20,000 to one of the kids.

[[Big Brother 14 (U.S.)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in American television, 2012 television seasons, Big Brother seasons, American television seasons

Big Brother 14 is the upcoming fourteenth season of the US reality television show Big Brother. The new season was announced during the season finale of Big Brother 13. Julie Chen will continue to host the season. The season premier is scheduled to air on CBS in July 2012.

[[Austrian Hockey League]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey leagues

The Austrian Hockey League (Erste Bank Eishockey Liga) for sponsorship reasons, is the top level of ice hockey in Austria. EC KAC has won the most league titles, with 23.

[[Tamura, Fukushima]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Fukushima Prefecture

Tamura is a city in Fukushima, Japan.  Tamura was created on March 1, 2005 by combining several towns towns and villages from the Tamura District.  They were Funehiki, Ōgoe, Takine, and Tokiwa, and Miyakoji. Between 1 March and 31 August 2011, many people moved to Tamura. The population actually went up by about 1,000 people, or 2%.

[[Mount Stromlo Observatory]]

CATEGORIES: Observatories in Australia, Buildings and structures in Canberra, 1924 establishments, 1920s establishments in Australia

Mount Stromlo Observatory (MSO) just outside of Canberra, Australia, is part of the Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics at the Australian National University (ANU).

[[Pietro Baracchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1851 births, 1926 deaths, Italian astronomers

Pietro Paolo Giovanni Ernesto Baracchi (1851–1926) was an Italian astronomer. He moved to Australia in the 1870's and worked at the Melbourne Observatory. In 1910 the Australian government asked him to find a suitable place for an observatory in the new Australian Capital Territory. Barrachi set up a small observatory on Mount Stromlo in May 1911. This was the first government building in Canberra and was the beginning of the Mount Stromlo Observatory. The observatory had a 9-inch (23 cm) telescope, donated by Ballarat gold miner, James Oddie.

[[Melbourne Observatory]]

CATEGORIES: Observatories in Australia, Buildings and structures in Melbourne, 1861 establishments in Australia

The Melbourne Observatory, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, was built in 1861. It replaced an earlier observatory at Williamstown. The Melbourne Observatory is now part of Melbourne's Royal Botanic Gardens. The observatory had an important role as it used observations of the stars to keep accurate time. It also kept the weather records and scientists were able to make weather predictions.

In 1869 the observatory installed the Great Melbourne Telescope (48 inch) which at that time was the largest steerable telescope in world. There were problems with its size and image accuracy and by 1890 it was no longer used. As Melbourne increased in size the light from the city limited the use of the observatory for serious astronomy. The Great Melbourne Telescope was sold to the Mount Stromlo Observatory in Canberra in 1944. It was destroyed in a bushfire in 2003, but there are plans to rebuild it and set it up as a display at the Melbourne Observatory.

The Melbourne Observatory is no longer used, but the historic equipment is kept in working condition by the Astronomical Society of Victoria. This is an amateur group of volunteers interested in astronomy. They have regular tours, talks and observation nights using the telescopes. The historic buildings are now used as offices for the gardens, a cafe and a shop.

[[Matt Cooke]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Minnesota Wild players, Ontario Hockey League players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Stanley Cup champions, Vancouver Canucks players, Washington Capitals players

Matthew David Cooke (born September 7, 1978) is a former Canadian professional ice hockey left winger. He plays for the Minnesota Wild of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Vancouver Canucks, Washington Capitals and Pittsburgh Penguins.

He is known as a pest because of his way of aggravating opponents. He has also faced many suspensions by the NHL. In 2009, He won the Stanley Cup with the Pittsburgh Penguins.

[[Mencius]]

CATEGORIES: Chinese philosophers, Humanism, 4th century BC births, 3rd century BC deaths

Mèng Kē (孟軻), who is usually known as Meng Zi (孟子)，which means "Master Meng," or Mencius (which is the Latin form of Meng Zi), was not in the generation of students who worked directly with Confucius, but in the second generation after it. He lived from about 371 B.C. to about 289 B.C. Mencius regarded Confucius as the greatest teacher, and he wrote a book in which he tried to explain the full picture behind what Confucius taught. The book is just called by his name, so in English it is called the Mencius.

In his book, Mencius taught that humans are born with four gifts: The first is the natural ability to feel what other people feel and to want to help and protect them. The second is to recognize when you are not doing your share of the job of maintaining a good society. The third is to recognize conflict situations before they grow big and to defuse them. The fourth is to recognize when some other people are hurting other people and want to obtain justice for those being hurt.

Mencius believed that just as the people owed things to the ruler, the ruler also owed things to the people. So if a man held the position of ruler but did not do the things for the people that a ruler should do, then it was acceptable for the people to get rid of the ruler, and even to kill him.

[[Radio frequency]]

CATEGORIES: Electromagnetic radiation, Radio technology

The term Radio frequency refers to electromagnetic radiation in the range of frequencies lower than microwaves. Radio waves at these frequencies have been found useful for long-range communications. Among these frequencies, shortwave radio communications operate at frequencies that can be reflected by the ionosphere and therefore can bounce around the earth. Longwave frequencies are used for relatively short range communications such as the most ordinary of the commercial amplitude modulation (AM) radio stations. Their transmissions ordinarily do not get long bounces.

Different short-wave frequencies (with wavelengths shorter than 120 meters) can be reflected well and transmitted by long bounces around the world during times when different conditions prevail in the ionosphere. So transmitters for such organizations as VOA (Voice of America) and BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation) will change operating frequencies from month to month and also from time to time during a 24 hour period.

[[White-flippered penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins

The white-flippered penguin (Eudyptula minor albosignata) is a subspecies of the little penguin.  Their name comes from the unique white edges on their flippers (wings).

[[Chris Nilan]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, American ice hockey players, Sportspeople from Boston, Massachusetts, Boston Bruins players, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Rangers players, Stanley Cup champions

Christopher John Nilan (born February 9, 1958 in Boston, Massachusetts) is an American retired professional ice hockey forward. He played 15 seasons and 688 regular season games in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Montreal Canadiens, New York Rangers and Boston Bruins organizations. He won the Stanley Cup with the Montreal Canadiens in 1986. His nickname was "Knuckles" because he was to fight with other players.

[[Solar telescope]]

CATEGORIES: Telescopes

A solar telescope is a special telescope used to look at the Sun. By using a range of special filters astronomers are able to study the Sun and look at sunspots and solar eclipses.  A solar telescope also known as a special telescope orbits space.

a) Hubble

b) Observing the X-ray Chandra

[[Dave Semenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2017 deaths, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Deaths from liver cancer, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Edmonton Oilers players, Hartford Whalers players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Sportspeople from Winnipeg, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, World Hockey Association players, Central Professional Hockey League players

David John Semenko (July 12, 1957 – June 29, 2017) was a Canadian professional ice hockey centre that played 2 seasons in the WHA and 10 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Edmonton Oilers, Hartford Whalers and Toronto Maple Leafs organizations. He won back-to-back Stanley Cups in 1984 and 1985 with the Edmonton Oilers. Fans nicknamed Semenko "Cementhead" even though his official team nickname was always "Sammy".

[[Seraikistan]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan

Saraikistan (Saraiki, Punjabi, سراییکستان) is a term used by few Saraikis to mean the southern region of the Punjab province of Pakistan.

[[Hexachlorobenzene]]

CATEGORIES: Carbon compounds, Chlorine compounds

Hexachlorobenzene is an aromatic compound. The molecule structure  resembles benzene, except that hydrogen atoms are replaced by chlorine. It is a colorless powder that is produced using catalysis from Iron(III) chloride or from Hexachlorocyclohexane.  Hexachlorobenzene was used as a fungicide, mostly to treat cereals. The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants forbids its production and use. The main reason for this restriction was that the outbreaks of rare diseases. Certain people eating food that had been treated became ill, and the illness could be linked to this substance. 

[[Chlordane]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Carcinogens

Chlordane is an insecticide, introduced in 1947. It is an organochloride that acts like a contact poison. It can be produced using the Diels–Alder reaction, and has at least 147 constituents. Its main use was in treating seeds, e.g. of potatoes, wheat, or vegetables. It was also used for wood preservation, and against ants and termites. Chlordane only degrades slowly, which means that it is relatively easy to spread it over long distances. It accumulates in the body of animals, in mammals mostly in the nervous system and the liver. Chlordane has been shown to cause cancer in mice; it may cause cancer in humans. Chlordane is toxic. It is listed in the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants.

[[Aldrin]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Aldrin is an insecticide, which was used against termites, locusts and the larvae of Click beetles. Most plants and animals convert it to Dieldrin. It is listed in the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, its production, use and trade are banned since 2004. Aldrin is a neurotoxin. People inhaling it can develop headaches, but also seizures. In humans, Aldrin is converted to dieldrin in the liver. The change will mean that it can leave the body again. The problem is that the change is slow, and the half-life is about a year. Aldrin may be a teratogen, and it probably causes cancer. 

[[Mirex]]

CATEGORIES: Hydrocarbons

Mirex is a chlorinated hydrocarbon that was commercialized as an insecticide. It was later banned because it was harmful to the environment. This white crystalline odorless solid is a derivative of cyclopentadiene. It was popularized to control fire ants but by virtue of its chemical robustness and lipophilicity it was recognized as a bioaccumulative pollutant. However, the spread of the red imported fire ant was actually encouraged by the use of Mirex, as it also kills native ants that are highly competitive with the fire ants. The United States Environmental Protection Agency prohibited its use in 1976.

[[Dieldrin]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Dieldrin is a chlorinated hydrocarbon originally produced in 1948 by J. Hyman & Co, Denver, as an insecticide. Dieldrin is closely related to aldrin. Aldrin reacts further to form dieldrin. Aldrin is not toxic to insects; it is oxidized in the insect to form dieldrin which is the active compound. Both dieldrin and aldrin are named after the Diels-Alder reaction which is used to form aldrin from a mixture of norbornadiene and hexachlorocyclopentadiene.

Dieldrin was developed as an alternative to DDT and has proved to be a highly effective insecticide. It was very widely used during the 1950s to early 1970s. Endrin is a stereoisomer of dieldrin.

However, it is an extremely persistent organic pollutant; it does not degrade easily. Furthermore it tends to biomagnify as it is passed along the food chain.  Long-term exposure has proven toxic to a very wide range of animals including humans. For this reason it is now banned in most of the world.

It has been linked to health problems such as Parkinson's disease, breast cancer, and immune, reproductive, and nervous system damage. It can also adversely affect testicular descent in the fetus if a pregnant woman is exposed to Dieldrin.

Dieldrin is listed in the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants.

[[Endrin]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Organic compounds, Pollution

Endrin is an insecticide that was commonplace among cotton growers and for the treament of cereals. It was also used to kill rodents. It is a neurotoxin. It is a stereoisomer of Dieldrin. In the soil, it can take up to twelve years to decay. It is one of the twelve substances listed in the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, and its production, trade and use is banned since 2004.

[[Mount Stromlo]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Australia, Australian Capital Territory

Mount Stromlo is west of the centre of Canberra, Australia, near the district of Weston Creek. It is about 751 above sea level and 200 above the surrounding plains. The Mount Stromlo Observatory (run by the Australian National University) is on the top of the mountain. Canberra's main water supply treatment plant, supplied by the Cotter River catchment area is nearby. Road access to the mountain is by Cotter Road on the south side, and Uriarra Road on the east and north.  The summit is reached by a road joining Cotter road just outside Duffy.

[[National Museum of Australia]]

CATEGORIES: National museums, Museums in Australia, Government agencies of Australia, Buildings and structures in Canberra, 2001 establishments in Australia

The National Museum of Australia is a social history museum in Australia's capital city, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory. It includes displays on the people of Australia, including the Indigenous Australians, the history of settlement and the environment. It was opened in 2001.

[[Terminal Velocity (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 video games, DOS games

Terminal Velocity is a video game that was published by 3D Realms and was developed by Terminal Reality. The video game was released on May 1, 1995 and was released for the MS-DOS and Mac OS. The game is an arcade-style flight combat game, with simpler game controls and physics than most other flight simulators. The game is best known for it's fast and high-energy action sequences. The game takes place in the year 2704, when the ASFAR (Alliance of Space-Faring Alien Races), of which Earth is a member of, suddenly turns against Earth and their fleet ravages the planet and starts a war. The player has to fly a powerful starfighter called the TV-202, in a series of missions to defeat the enemy. A huge supercomputer known as X.I. (Xenocidic Initiative) is responsible for the war and the final mission is to destroy it.

[[Star Fox 64]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 video games, Nintendo 64 games, Virtual Console games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, Star Fox

Star Fox 64 (also known as Lylat Wars in Australia and Europe) is a video game that was published by Nintendo and was developed by Nintendo EAD. The game was released on April 27, 1997 in Japan, June 30, 1997 in North America, October 20, 1997 in Europe, and October 20, 1997 in Australasia for the Nintendo 64. The game is a reboot of the original Star Fox for the SNES and is the first in the Star Fox series to be released on the Nintendo 64. Star Fox 64 was also the first Nintendo 64 game to include a Rumble Pak. The game received positive reviews with a 8.3 out of ten by GameSpot and 88 out of 100 from Metacritic. The game was ranked as #73 on Nintendo Power's "Top 200 Nintendo Games Ever" and was also listed as the 45th greatest game of all time by Guinness World Records Gamer's Edition in 2009.

[[Teltow]]

Teltow is a place in Germany. The population is around 4,000 and it is in the province of Potsdam-Mittelmark.

[[Page layout]]

CATEGORIES: Typography, Graphics

Page layout is a part of typography and graphic design. It deals with the arrangement and style of elements (content) on a page.

[[Eric Carle]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, American children's writers, Writers from New York, People from Syracuse, New York, American illustrators, Disease-related deaths in Massachusetts, American military personnel of the Korean War

Eric Carle (June 25, 1929 – May 23, 2021) was an American children's author and illustrator. Carle illustrated more than 70 books with some being best sellers. More than 102 million copies of his books have been sold worldwide. His best known work is the 1969 book, The Very Hungry Caterpillar which has been translated into over 50 different languages. 

Carle was born in Syracuse, New York. He was drafted into the U.S. Army during the Korean War and was stationed in Germany with the Second Armored Division and was appointed the position of mail clerk. Carle had a son and a daughter.

Carle died on May 23, 2021 at his studio home in Northampton, Massachusetts from kidney failure aged 91.

[[The Very Hungry Caterpillar]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 books, English-language picture books, Children's books, Children's picture books

The Very Hungry Caterpillar is a children's book by American writer Eric Carle. It is Carle's most famous book, it has been translated into over 50 different languages and has sold 30 million copies worldwide. The book is about a caterpillar that eats food until pupating and becoming a butterfly. The book was inspired by a hole puncher. The New York Times named it as one of the "Ten Best Picture Books of the Year" in 1969. Google celebrated the book's 40th anniversary in 2009 by changing the logo on its main search page to the style used in the book.

[[1920 Duluth lynchings]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 in the United States, Deaths by hanging, Duluth, Minnesota, Murder in the United States, 20th century in Minnesota, Lynching

The 1920 Duluth lynchings occurred when a mob attacked and lynched three black circus workers in Duluth, Minnesota. Beforehand there were rumours that black people had raped a teenager.  A physician who examined the girl found no evidence of rape or assault.

The killings shocked the country, particularly because they had occurred in the northern United States. Four other lynchings had occurred in Minnesota before that time. In 2003, the city of Duluth erected a memorial to the murdered workers. 

[[Lynching]]

CATEGORIES: Civil rights, Murders, Lynching

Lynching is the execution of a person or persons, by the people of an area without the use of a court trial. Often the people lynched have been hanged. Other forms of lynching include being dragged to death behind a car, burning and use of a gun. What makes the execution a lynching is the nature of it being done without a court trial by people who believe the accused is guilty of a crime. Lynchings have been used in the southern states of the United States of America against African Americans during the time of slavery but more commonly after the abolition of slavery during the time of civil rights activism and the times of the various Ku Klux Klans. Lynching continues to be a problem to this day, and is not just limited to southern states. Lynching is murder, and many times the people who do it are never punished. One horrific example of Lynching is Lynching of Jesse Washington.

[[MERLIN]]

CATEGORIES: Telescopes

MERLIN, the Multi-Element Radio Linked Interferometer Network, is an array of radio telescopes. It is spread across Great Britain. There are seven radio telescopes in the array. MERLIN is run by Jodrell Bank Observatory, by the University of Manchester. It is run as a national facility on behalf of the Science and Technology Facilities Council.

[[Grouped data]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

Grouped data is a statistical term used in data analysis. Raw data can be organized by grouping together similar measurements in a table. This frequency table is also called grouped data.

[[Kim Hyun-Soo]]

CATEGORIES: Names

Kim Hyun-Soo (김현수) is a Korean name. The surname is Kim (김), and the given name is Hyun-Soo (현수). It is usually thought of as a unisex name. It can also be spelled as Kim Hyun-Su, Kim Hyeon-Soo or Kim Hyeon-Su.

[[Epitech]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in France, 1999 establishments in France, Réunion

École pour l'informatique et les nouvelles technologies, commonly named EPITECH, is a French private college establishment in Le Kremlin-Bicêtre (close to Paris), Bordeaux, Rennes, Marseille, Lille, Lyon, Montpellier, Nancy, Nantes, Nice, Strasbourg, Saint-André, Réunion and Toulouse, France.

EPITECH is specialized in the different fields of IT. The school is part of IONIS Education Group.

[[École spéciale de mécanique et électricité]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in France, 1905 establishments in France

École spéciale de mécanique et électricité, commonly named ESME-Sudria, is a French private high school establishment located in Paris, Ivry-sur-Seine, Bordeaux, Lille and Lyon, France.

ESME-Sudria is specialized in the fields of electrical engineering, electronics, mechanics, telecommunications, and computer engineering. The school is part of IONIS Education Group.

[[Conférence des Grandes Écoles]]

CATEGORIES: Education in France

The Conference des Grandes Écoles (CGE) is an association of Grandes écoles of engineering and management, all recognized by the state and delivering a national degree after at least 5 years of higher education. Some companies, alumni associations and organizations are also member of CGE. It also organizes the Mastère Spécialisé, the Mastère en sciences and the BADGE programs.

[[Winnipeg Jets (1972–96)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 establishments in Canada, 1996 disestablishments in North America, 1990s disestablishments in Canada, Defunct National Hockey League teams, Ice hockey teams in Canada, Sport in Manitoba, World Hockey Association teams

The Winnipeg Jets were a professional ice hockey team from Winnipeg, Manitoba. The Jets played in the National Hockey League for 17 seasons before being relocated to Phoenix, Arizona and were renamed the Phoenix Coyotes in 1996. A new Winnipeg Jets team was relocated back to Winnipeg from the Atlanta Thrashers in 2011.

[[F♯ (musical note)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical notes

F♯ (eff-sharp or F-sharp; also known as fa dièse or fi) is the seventh semitone of the solfège.

It lies a chromatic semitone above F and a diatonic semitone below G, thus being enharmonic to Sol Bémol or G♭ (G-flat).

[[A (musical note)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical notes

La or A is the sixth note of the solfège. "A" is generally used as a standard for tuning. When the orchestra tunes, the oboe plays an "A" and the rest of the instruments tune to match that pitch. Every string instrument in the orchestra has an A string, from which each player can tune the rest of their instrument.

A0 is the lowest note on the standard piano. The octaves follow A1, A2, etc.. A7 is a few pitches lower than C8, the highest note on the standard piano. The note "A" is not considered to be a certain milestone or mark to hit with voice as, for example, Tenor C is, but it can be extremely demanding in certain octaves.

[[American Old West]]

CATEGORIES: American Old West

The American Old West, or the Wild West means the history, geography, people, and culture of life in the Western United States. This often referring to the period of the later half of the 19th century, between the American Civil War and the end of the century. 

This time is often shown in films like The Searchers, High Noon and Shane, in TV series like Bonanza and in fiction like Little House on the Prairie. Like other popular historical themes such as pirates and ninjas, the relationship between fact and fiction is complex.

[[Desktop publishing]]

CATEGORIES: Typography, Graphics, History of printing

Desktop publishing (also known as DTP) is the creation of documents using page layout software on a personal computer.

The term has been used for publishing at all levels, from small-circulation documents such as local newsletters to books, magazines and newspapers. However the term implies a more professional-looking end result, with a more complex layout, than word processing, and so when introduced in the 1980s was often used in connection with homes and small organisations who could not previously produce publication-quality documents themselves.

[[Gene silencing]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Molecular biology

Gene silencing is a general term describing epigenetic processes of gene regulation. It is used to describe the "switching off" of a gene by a mechanism other than genetic engineering. That is, a gene which would be expressed ("turned on") under normal circumstances is switched off by machinery in the cell. When a gene is silenced it means that its RNA is unable to make a protein.

Genes are regulated at either the transcriptional stage, or later, before translation.  

Transcriptional gene silencing is done by histone modifications, which put heterochromatin around a gene. This means the transcriptional machinery (RNA polymerase, transcription factors, etc.) cannot get at the gene. Genes may be silenced by DNA methylation. This happens regularly during development, when genes are turned on and off at different stages.

Post-transcriptional gene silencing is done by blocking or destroying the mRNA of a particular gene. The destruction of the mRNA prevents translation to form an active gene product (in most cases, a protein). A common way mRNA gets silenced is by RNAi. 

Both transcriptional and post-transcriptional gene silencing are used to regulate genes. Methods of gene silencing also protect the organism's genome from transposons and viruses. Gene silencing thus may be part of an ancient immune system protecting cells from such infectious DNA and RNA.

[[Neurospora]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi, Model organisms

Neurospora is a genus of Ascomycete fungi. The best known species in this genus is Neurospora crassa, a common model organism in genetics and molecular biology.

The first published account of this fungus was from an infestation of French bakeries in 1843.

N. crassa is used as a model organism because it is easy to grow and has a haploid life cycle that makes genetic analysis simple since recessive traits will show up in the offspring. Analysis of genetic recombination is facilitated by the ordered arrangement of the products of meiosis in Neurospora ascospores. Its entire genome of seven chromosomes has been sequenced.

Neurospora was used by Edward Tatum and George Wells Beadle in their experiments for which they won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1958. Beadle and Tatum exposed N. crassa to x-rays, causing mutations. They then observed failures in metabolic pathways caused by errors in specific enzymes. This led them to propose the "one gene, one enzyme" hypothesis that specific genes code for specific proteins.  Their hypothesis was later elaborated to enzyme pathways by Norman Horowitz, also working on Neurospora.

In the 24 April 2003 issue of Nature, the genome of N. crassa was reported as completely sequenced. The genome is about 43 megabases long and includes approximately 10,000 genes. There is a project underway to produce strains containing knockout mutants of every N. crassa gene.

In its natural environment, N. crassa lives mainly in tropical and sub-tropical regions. It can be found growing on dead plant matter after fires. Neurospora is actively used in research around the world. It is important in the elucidation of molecular events involved in circadian rhythms, epigenetics and gene silencing, cell polarity, cell fusion, development, as well as many aspects of cell biology and biochemistry.

Strains and other materials for working with Neurospora are available from the

[[Rosemont, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois

Rosemont is a village in Illinois in the United States. It is near the O'Hare Airport, just northwest of Chicago.  The Allstate Arena is in Rosemont.

[[Satellite television]]

CATEGORIES: Television technology

Satellite television is a way of sending television signals.  Television channels go to a ground station, which sends them by radio waves to a communications satellite in space.  The satellite then transmits that signal back to earth. People with a satellite dish can receive the signals.  Very often, satellite television is provided as a pay television service (especially to places where cable TV is not available).  Here are some examples:

[[Granada television]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct companies of the United Kingdom, Entertainment companies

Granada Television was a television production company. It owned an ITV television channel of the same name. It produced a number of shows for many television stations (like Channel 4 and Sky). The company is now known as ITV Studios, which is owned by ITV plc. Granada's best known programme is the long-running soap opera Coronation Street. 

[[Heptachlor]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

Heptachlor is an insecticide. It was used against ants, termites, against mosquitos of the genus Anopheles, that can spread malaria and as a general pesticide.  In humans, heptachlor damages the liver, and the central nervous system. It may cause cancer. It is sold as a powder. The Diels-Alder reaction is used to produce it. The compound is very stable and can stay in the environment for decades. 

Hepltachlor is one of the substances listed in the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants.

[[Magellan Telescopes]]

CATEGORIES: Telescopes, Astronomical observatories in Chile

The Magellan Telescopes are two 6.5m diameter optical telescopes at the Las Campanas Observatory in Chile. The two were named after the Portuguese explorer, Ferdinand Magellan. Each telescope is also named; the Baade after astronomer Walter Baade, and the Clay after the philanthropist Landon T. Clay.

First light for the telescopes was on September 15, 2000 for the Baade, and September 7, 2002 for the Clay.

The Carnegie Institution for Science, University of Arizona, Harvard University, University of Michigan and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology worked together to build and operate the twin telescopes.

The Magellan Planet Search Program is looking for planets using a spectrograph mounted on the 6.5m Magellan II (Clay) telescope.

[[Las Campanas Observatory]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical observatories in Chile

Las Campanas Observatory  is an astronomical observatory in the southern Atacama desert in Chile.  It is owned and operated by the Carnegie Institution for Science. It was built in 1969 as the main observing site for the Carnegie Institution for Science. The headquarters is located in La Serena, Chile and the observatory is about 100 northeast of the city. The observatory is at 2400 above sea level.

On February 24, 1987, Ian Shelton and Oscar Duhalde first saw the Supernova 1987A (SN 1987A).

[[Tyler Perry]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Actors from Louisiana, African American actors, African American movie directors, African American movie producers, African American writers, American Christians, Screenwriters from Louisiana, Writers from New Orleans, Louisiana

Tyler Perry (born September 13, 1969 in New Orleans) is an African American playwright and actor, whose work plays are usually for encouragement to African Americans. Having started writing plays at age 18, Perry created a successful touring theater company, videos of whose performances were sold on DVD. As of March 2005, the plays had grossed over $75 million in ticket and DVD sales. He is well known for his plays on Madea.  At age 16, he had his first name legally changed from Emmitt to Tyler in an effort to distance himself from his father. 

[[Be Easy]]

CATEGORIES: Massari, 2005 songs

"Be Easy" is a song by Canadian-Lebanese singer Massari. The song peaked at number four on the Canadian Singles Chart, number 70 on the German Singles Chart and number 24 on the Portuguese Singles Chart. The song became the second single from Massari (2005). The music video won "Best Pop Video of the Year" at the 2006 MuchMusic Video Awards.

[[Smile for Me]]

CATEGORIES: Massari, 2005 songs

"Smile for Me" is a song by Canadian-Lebanese singer Massari. The song was the lead single from Massari (2005).

[[Massari (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 albums, Debut albums, Massari, R&B albums, Pop albums, Hip hop albums

Massari ("Money") is the debut album by Canadian-Lebanese singer Massari. It was released in 2005. It was certified gold for selling 50,000 copies in Canada.

[[Spectrograph]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy, Physics

A spectrograph  is an instrument that breaks up a wave into a frequency spectrum. These could be sound, light or radio waves. For example the frequency spectrum of light is the brightness (intensity) and the amount of each colour. There are several kinds of machines called spectrographs, used to look at different waves. The term was first used in 1884.

A spectrograph is closely related to a polychromator.

[[Ken Mogi]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Scientists from Tokyo, University of Tokyo alumni

Ken Mogi is a Japanese scientist. He studies the human brain. He works a researcher at Sony Computer Science Laboratories and teaches at the Tokyo Institute of Technology.

[[Occupy Wall Street]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 in New York (state), 2010s in New York City, Protests in the 2010s

Occupy Wall Street was a protest that started in 2011 in New York City and spread into other cities all over the United States. Citizens protested against how poor and wealthy people have lived in different ways and are treated differently by other people, and also against the way corporations used their money. People in New York started protesting in Zuccotti Park on September 17, and some people decided to camp there overnight. It grew to include several thousand people, with many different political views. Protesters included some communists, political moderates, liberals, conservatives, and libertarians.

Many of the Occupy protests in the rest of the country only started as in the middle of October. In some places, like Denver, Oakland, and New York City itself, police acted violently. In some places, including Miami, the protests were peaceful and some police officers supported the protests.  After 2011 the numbers of people involved dwindled away. 

[[Thelma]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Thelma is a female given name which in Greek means "will and volition". There are many celebrities going under this feminine name. Also, there are many television series featuring characters with the name Thelma. In addition, a deadly tropical cyclone by the name Thelma struck the Philippines in latter 1991.

[[First light (astronomy)]]

CATEGORIES: Telescopes

In astronomy, first light is the first time a telescope is used to look at the Universe. This is often not the first time the telescope has been used. Tests will have been done during daylight to make sure everything is working. Images taken during first light are not normally of scientific interest. They are usually poor quality as the parts of the telescope have not been properly adjusted for best performance. Usually, a well-known and spectacular astronomical object is chosen. First light is always a moment of great excitement, both for the people who designed and built the telescope, and for the astronomical community.

For example, the 200-inch Hale Telescope saw first light January 26, 1949, targeting a nebula located in the constellation Monoceros. under the direction of American astronomer Edwin Hubble. The image was published in many magazines. 

The Large Binocular Telescope had its first light with a single primary mirror on October 12, 2005. This was a view of NGC 891, a spiral galaxy in the Andromeda constellation . The second mirror was installed in January 2006 and the telescope became fully operational in January 2008. 

In physical cosmology, first light refers to the light coming from the first generation of hyperstars. These were formed less than a billion years after the big bang, bringing an end to the cosmological Dark Ages.

[[Esther Vergeer]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Dutch Paralympic gold medalists, Dutch Paralympic silver medalists, Dutch wheelchair basketball players, Dutch wheelchair tennis players, 2000 Summer Paralympics, 2004 Summer Paralympics, 2008 Summer Paralympics, 2012 Summer Paralympics, Sportspeople from Utrecht (province)

Esther Mary Vergeer (born 18 July 1981, Woerden) is a Dutch wheelchair tennis player. Vergeer has not lost a match in singles since February 2003. She has won 39 Grand Slam titles, five Paralympic Gold Medals and 21 Masters titles. Vergeer has been the world number one since 1999. Vergeer is also a former wheelchair basketball player. She was part of the team which won the European Championships in 1997.

[[Liz Kendall]]

CATEGORIES: Labour MPs (UK), 1971 births, Living people

Elizabeth Louise Kendall (born 1971) has been the MP for Leicester West since 2010. She is a member of the Labour party.

[[Keith Vaz]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Labour MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from London

Nigel Keith Anthony Standish Vaz, known as Keith Vaz, was born 26 November 1956 in Aden, Yemen to Indian parents. He moved to Twickenham, London during his childhood. He is the MP for Leicester South.

In 2007, Vaz was diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes.

[[Korie Homan]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, Dutch Paralympic gold medalists, Dutch Paralympic silver medalists, Dutch wheelchair tennis players, Sportspeople from Drenthe

Korie Homan (born 16 June 1986, de Wijk) is a retired Dutch wheelchair tennis player. Homan was part of the current Paralympic doubles champion team. Homan is the former Australian Open Champion. She has won all the Grand Slam doubles titles. In 2009 she complete the Grand Slam with Esther Vergeer. In 2011 Homan retired from playing because of a wrist injury.

[[Party realignment in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United States, Politics

A party realignment in the United States is when the country transitions from being mostly run by one political party to mostly run by another political party.  During party realignments, some groups of people who used to vote for one party vote for the other one.  Sometimes, political parties end and new ones begin.  Party realignments can happen because of important events in history or because of changes in the kinds of people in the country.  

[[Krishna]]

CATEGORIES: Krishna, Hindu gods and goddesses

Krishna is an important God(Para Brahman) in Hinduism. He is considered to have been an avatar of the god Vishnu. Krishna is believed to have been a real person who took part in the war known as the Mahabharata. He is a central character in the important Hindu scripture the Bhagavad Gita. Hindus often consider him a warrior, hero, teacher and philosopher and a great leader.

[[Rotating furnace]]

CATEGORIES: Telescopes, Optics

A rotating furnace is a special type of furnace used to make lenses or mirrors for telescopes. Glass is placed in the furnace which is then spun up and heated. The top surface of the melted glass takes on a concave shape. The glass is cooled while still spinning. The spinning makes the glass the same shape as the main mirror used in a telescope. Computer controlled grinding machines can correct the shape of the glass. The concave top surface can be coated with silver and be used as a focusing mirror. The shape of bottom surface is made by the container the glass was melted in. The technology is being used for the Giant Magellan Telescope's seven mirrors. 

Large focusing mirrors can also be made using liquid mercury, such as the Large Zenith Telescope. The rotation is continuous and the metal remains liquid; once all waves and imbalances die out, the telescope is then used.  

[[Dependent and independent variables]]

CATEGORIES: Experiments, Mathematics

In an experiment, the variables used can be classed as either dependent or independent variables. The dependent variable is the possible outcome of the experiment; the effect. It depends on what happens to other variables in the experiment. The dependent variable is basically the part that you are changing. For example, if you want to know how much light a plant needs to grow, the amount of growth is the dependent. If you wanted to see if a plant would grow better in hot or cold areas your independent variable would be the temperature of the air.

The independent variable is the variable that you have control over, what you can choose and manipulate. It is usually what you think will affect the dependent variable. In some cases, you may not be able to manipulate the independent variable. It may be something that is already there and is fixed, something you would like to evaluate with respect to how it affects something else, the independent variable like color, kind, time. As an example, you are interested in how stress affects heart rate in humans. Your independent variable would be the stress and the dependent variable would be the heart rate. You can directly manipulate stress levels in your human subjects and measure how those stress levels change heart rate.

[[Hamnet Shakespeare]]

CATEGORIES: 1585 births, 1596 deaths, People from Warwickshire, Twin people from England

Hamnet Shakespeare (baptised 2 February 1585 – buried 11 August 1596) was the only son of William Shakespeare and Anne Hathaway.  He was the twin brother of Judith Shakespeare. He died at age 11.  How he died is not known. There are several ideas about a possible relationship between Hamnet and his father's play Hamlet. Other ideas state there is a relationship between Hamnet's death and the writing of King John, Romeo and Juliet, Julius Caesar, and Twelfth Night. These ideas of a relationship became popular as early as the 18th century.  They continued into the 1930s.  In the 1930s, thinkers who believed in modernism and New Criticism said the relationship did not matter.  Modernism and New Criticism thinkers believe that a writer's life does not change his writing.   More recently, as New Criticism has become less popular, the ideas about Hamnet and his father's work have been talked about again.

[[Large Zenith Telescope]]

CATEGORIES: Canada, Telescopes

The Large Zenith Telescope (LZT) is a 6.0 metre diameter telescope. It is in the University of British Columbia's Malcolm Knapp Research Forest, about 70 east of Vancouver. It is one of the largest  telescopes in the world. 

A zenith telescope is only able to look straight up. This means that it can use a mirror which is a smoothly spinning pan filled with liquid mercury. The LZT uses 28 litres of mercury, spinning once every 8.5 seconds. This type of mirror can be made much larger and cheaper than a conventional mirror, which means it collects much more light. This light is focused into a CCD to make an image. The LZT is used for "transit imaging". This means that earth's rotation moves stars past the telescope. Images can be taken by moving the sensor electronically in step with this movement.

The telescope was made in 1994 using parts from the three-metre diameter NASA Orbital Debris Observatory telescope, which was retired a couple years earlier after several years of use.

[[Stéphane Hessel]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Political activists, French diplomats, People from Berlin

Stéphane Frédéric Hessel (20 October 1917 - 27 February 2013) was a German-French diplomat and political activist. He was born in Berlin and became a French citizen in 1939. He was active in the Resistance in France during the Second World War. After the war, he was secretary to one of the writers of the United Nation's Universal Declaration of Human Rights and took part in World Conference on Human Rights that adopted Vienna Declaration He also opposed inequality in wealth and war by Israel in Palestine. 

[[First Battle of Maryang San]]

CATEGORIES: 1951, Korean War, 1950s in Australia

The Battle of Maryang San is known as Australia's greatest accomplishment in the Korean War. The battle occurred when the US General George Fleet called for forces to capture some positions just prior to the signing of the truce at Panmanjan.

[[Ferdinand I of Bulgaria]]

CATEGORIES: Knights of the Golden Fleece, Bisexual people, 1861 births, 1948 deaths, Bulgarian people, Kings and queens, Botanists, Philatelists

Ferdinand I of Bulgaria (26 February 1861spaced ndash10 September 1948) was a Bulgarian monarch, author, botanist, and philatelist.

[[Fugacity]]

CATEGORIES: Thermodynamics

[[Laava]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Brazilian singers

Laava is the stage name of Brazilian singer Fernanda Brandao.

[[Jay Brannan]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Actors from Austin, Texas, American movie actors, LGBT actors, LGBT people from Texas, LGBT singers, LGBT songwriters, Singer-songwriters from Texas

Jay Brannan (March 29, 1982) is an American singer-songwriter. He grew up in Austin, Texas and is gay. His family, who were very conservative Baptists, had a hard time accepting this. Brannan moved to California after one year of being at college. Brannan had wanted to become an actor and landed his first role in Shortbus in 2003. He recorded "Soda Shop" which was featured in the movie soundtrack. After this, Brannan continued singing songs. He began performing acoustic versions on YouTube and became very popular without any promotion.

Brannan had acted in his second movie Holding Trevor in 2007. A year later, his debut album Goddamned was released. Brannan promoted the album during his Goddamned Tour. The following year, he released his second studio album called In Living Cover. The album peaked at number 10 the US Top Heatseekers on Billboard.

Brannan's voice is a tenor and has been compared to many female artists. Many feedback's from music critics have been mixed to negative. Brannan's music was called "The Little Mermaid on crack", while he stated that he writes songs out of anger and pain. Jer Fairall of PopMatters gave Brannan's debut album a mixed review, stating "with likeability to spare, Brannan's music nevertheless needs to grow up a bit". Brannan has said in interviews that he wishes not to be called a "gay singer".

[[Marojejy National Park]]

CATEGORIES: Madagascar, National parks in Africa

Marojejy National Park is a national Park of Madagascar in northeastern Madagascar.

[[Philo T. Farnsworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1971 deaths, American inventors, Deaths from pneumonia, American Latter Day Saints, Businesspeople from Idaho, Businesspeople from Utah, Television people, Scientists from Idaho, Scientists from Utah

Philo Taylor Farnsworth (August 19, 1906 - March 11, 1971) was an American inventor.  He was from Beaver, Utah and grew up in Idaho.  He was a Mormon and went to college at Brigham Young University.  

He is one of several people who can claim to have invented television.  He invented the picture tube and built the first all-electric TV set.  He had built his first prototype in 1927, and presented it in 1928.  For the next few years, Farnsworth fought a battle with RCA over his patents.  By 1936, he was filming television programs.  He did a lot of research in nuclear fusion.  He also invented the modern method of air-traffic control.

A statue of Farnsworth represents Utah in the United States Capitol.

[[Luigi Bruins]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, Dutch footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Sportspeople from Rotterdam

Luigi Bruins (born 9 March 1987 in Rotterdam) is a Dutch footballer who currently plays for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.

Bruins was born in Rotterdam and is of Italian descent.

[[Gerund]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of speech

A gerund is a verb used as a noun. 

In English, the gerund is formed by adding -ing to a verb root. It is identical in form to the present participle (ending in -ing) and can behave as a verb within a clause (so that it may be modified by an adverb or have an object), but the clause as a whole (sometimes consisting of only one word, the gerund itself) acts as a noun within the larger sentence. For example: ''Eating this cake is easy.''

In "Eating this cake is easy", "eating this cake", although traditionally known as a phrase, is referred to as a non-finite clause in modern linguistics.  "Eating" is the verb in the clause, while "this cake" is the object of the verb.  "Eating this cake" acts as a noun phrase within the sentence as a whole, though; the subject of the sentence is the non-finite clause, specifically eating.

Other examples of the gerund:

Not all nouns that are identical in form to the present participle are gerunds. The formal distinction is that a gerund is a verbal noun – a noun derived from a verb that retains verb characteristics, that functions simultaneously as a noun and a verb, while other nouns in the form of the present participle (ending in -ing) are deverbal nouns, which function as common nouns, not as verbs at all. Compare:

[[Institution of Electrical Engineers]]

CATEGORIES: Organisations based in the United Kingdom

The Institution of Electrical Engineers (I.E.E., pronounced I-double-E or I-E-E) was a British professional organisation of electronics, electrical, manufacturing, and Information Technology professionals. It focused on electrical engineers. The I.E.E. was founded in 1871 as the Society of Telegraph Engineers. It changed its name in 1880 to the Society of Telegraph Engineers and Electricians. The name changed again to the Institution of Electrical Engineers in 1889. It was Incorporated by a Royal Charter in 1921. In 2006, the I.E.E. merged with the Institution of Incorporated Engineers (I.I.E.) to form the Institution of Engineering and Technology (I.E.T.). Before the merger, the I.E.E. was the largest professional engineering society in Europe, with a worldwide membership of around 120,000.

[[Participle]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of speech

In linguistics, a participle is a word that shares some characteristics of both verbs and adjectives. Examples of participle formation are:

As noun-modifiers, participles usually precede the noun (like adjectives), but in many cases they can or must follow it:

[[Diary of a Mad Black Woman]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, American comedy movies, Movies set in Atlanta, Georgia, English-language movies, Movies about divorce, Lionsgate movies

Diary of a Mad Black Woman is a 2005 movie. It was based on a play written by Tyler Perry. The movie starred Kimberly Elise, Shemar Moore, Cicely Tyson, Steve Harris, and Tyler Perry. The movie was directed by Darren Grant. It was released in the US on February 25, 2005. The movie became the top-grossing film in the United States in mid-March of 2005.

[[Crash Bandicoot (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: PlayStation games, 1996 video games, Crash Bandicoot games, Naughty Dog games

Crash Bandicoot is a platform game made by Naughty Dog in 1996 for the PlayStation, featuring the character by the same name. In it, Crash must fight Dr. Neo Cortex's henchmen (bosses) in order to save Tawna, his beloved bandicoot girlfriend for revenge on Cortex. The game sold 6.8 million copies, becoming the 8th best-selling PlayStation video games of all time.

[[Messerschmitt]]

CATEGORIES: Aviation

Messerschmitt AG was a German aircraft manufacturer.  It was founded in 1916, re-founded in 1938, and named for designer Willy Messerschmitt.  It was headquarted in Augsburg, Germany.  It made most of the fighter planes the Germans used in World War II.  They made the Bf 109 and 110 fighter plane, the Me 321 transport plane and the Me 262 "Swallow" jet fighter.  Many of their plane parts were made by people from concentration camps.  After the war, the company made cars, bicycles, and prefab homes.  In 1969, Messerschmitt merged with Bölkow and Blohm, and today exists as EADS Germany

[[J Balvin]]

CATEGORIES: Colombian singers, Songwriters, 1985 births, Living people, Reggaeton, Latin Grammy Award winners

José Álvaro Osorio Balvin (J Balvin) is a Colombian reggaeton singer.

[[Killers (1997)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 movies, English-language movies

Killers is a 1997 movie directed by David Michael Latt and distributed by The Asylum.

[[List of frogs and toads in New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Amphibians, Lists of animals

This is a list of frogs and toads that are in the US state of New Jersey. There are 13 frogs and 3 toads. Most of these frogs and toads hibernate during the winter time. They are more active during the late spring, summer and early fall seasons.

[[Northern Cricket Frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs

The northern cricket frog (Acris crepitans) is a species of small Hylid frogs. They are native to the United States and northeastern Mexico. Northern cricket frogs are small frogs, between 0.75 and 1.5 inches (19–38 mm) long. They eat crickets and small insects. They usually reproduce in April through May. Tadpoles hatch within a few days.

[[Ted Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2002 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Cryonically preserved people, American baseball players, Boston Red Sox players, Sportspeople from San Diego, California

Theodore Samuel "Ted" Williams (born Teddy Samuel; August 30, 1918 - July 5, 2002) was an American professional baseball player for Boston Red Sox. He was the last player in Major League Baseball to go past a batting average of .400 (40%) in a single season. Williams  was born in San Diego, California.

Williams died on July 5, 2002 from cardiac arrest in Inverness, Florida, aged 83. His head is chronologically frozen.

[[Empress Suiko]]

CATEGORIES: 554 births, 628 deaths, Emperors of Japan

Empress Suiko (554–628) was the 33rd Emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  Her reign started in 593 and ended in 628.  Historians consider details about the life of Empress Suiko to be possibly legendary, but probable. The name Suiko-tennō was created for her posthumously by later generations.

The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

In the history of Japan, Suiko was the first of eight women to be empress. The seven others were: (a) Kōgyoku/Saimei, (b) Jitō, (c) Gemmei, (d) Genshō, (e) Kōken/Shōtoku, (f) Meishō, and (g) Go-Sakuramachi.

[[Berkshire Hathaway]]

CATEGORIES: American financial companies, Insurance companies

Berkshire Hathaway is an investment company mostly owned and controlled by Warren Buffett.  It owns many different companies.  It owns several companies completely, and holds large portions of other companies.  It has 27,000 shareholders, and Bill Gates is one of the company's directors.

It takes its name from a textile mill that was started in 1839, bought by Buffett in 1964, and closed in 1985.

Since Berkshire Hathaway's stock has gained a lot of value and never split, a single share of "A stock" is now worth over $400,000.  Because of this, there is a "B" stock that sells for a small fraction of the "A stock".

[[Battle of Valcour Island]]

CATEGORIES: 1776 in New York (state), Battles of the American Revolutionary War, October events

The naval Battle of Valcour Island took place on October 11, 1776 on Lake Champlain. The battle was also known as the Battle of Valcour Bay. The main battle had took place in Valcour Bay, a strait between the New York mainland and Valcour Island. The battle was known as one of the first naval battles of the American Revolutionary War. It was also known as one of the first battle from the Royal Navy. Benedict Arnold demanded that the Americans flee from their ships. The ships were destroyed by a British force, which was controlled by General Guy Charleton. The British had planned to reach the upper Hudson River valley, however the American defense of Lake Champlain stalled the British from reaching it.

In June 1776, The Continental Army had moved away from enemy forces in Quebec to Fort Ticonderoga and Fort Crown Point. They had spent that summer fixing their forts and building more ships to build their army. General Carleton had a 9,000 man army at Fot Saint-Jean. However, he needed to build an object to carry all of them over the lake. The Americans had either taken or destroyed most of the ships on the lake.

On October 11, Arnold took the British vessels to a different location. He had chosen to give the British limited advantages. Many American ships were damaged or destroyed during the battle. Arnold had took the American vessels past the British vessels during that night. He had took them toward Crown Point and Ticonderoga. However, because of dangerous weather, more of the vessels were captured or burned before they had reached Crown Point.  When Arnold had reached Crown Point he had the fort's buildings burned. He then left to Ticonderoga.

Thomas Pringle, James Dacres, Edward Pellew and John Schank, who were officers, had became admirals in the Royal Navy. Valcour Bay, where the battle had begun, is now a National Historic Landmark. The USS Philadelphia, which had sank after the battle on October 11, was risen from the ocean in 1934. USS Spitfire, which was located in 1997, is on the National Register of Historic Places.

[[Valcour Bay]]

CATEGORIES: American Revolutionary War, Straits

Valcour Bay is a strait between the New York mainland and Valcour Island. It is four miles south from Plattsburgh, New York. The bay was where the Battle of Valcour Island had happened during the American Revolutionary War. On October 11, 1776, the presence of an American fleet on the west shore of Lake Champlain, at Valcour Bay, hampered the British and allowed an American victory at Saratoga a year later, a turning point in the Revolutionary War. In 1961 Valcour Bay was declared a National Historic Landmark.

[[Valcour Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of New York

Valcour Island lies in Lake Champlain, forming a strait against the New York mainland.  On October 11, 1776, a naval engagement known as the Battle of Valcour Island was fought in that strait between British and United States naval forces.

[[Guy Carleton, 1st Baron Dorchester]]

CATEGORIES: 1724 births, 1808 deaths, British Army generals

Sir Guy Carleton, 1st Baron Dorchester (1724-1808) was a British soldier and Governor of Canada. Colonel Carleton was a part of James Wolfe's attack on Quebec City during the Battle of the Plains of Abraham. General Carleton repelled the American attack on Quebec in 1775. He was governor of Canada twice, 1768-1778 and 1785-1795.

[[Bleeding Love]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 songs, Leona Lewis

"Bleeding Love" is a song by Leona Lewis. It was released as her official second single on 29 October 2007 from her first album Spirit. The song is written and produced by Ryan Tedder. 

"Bleeding Love" is said to be like a classic Prince record, or Whitney Houston's "My Love Is Your Love".

Lewis had performed the song on the live show of the fourth series of The X Factor.

[[TBS]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks, Time Warner, Companies based in Atlanta, Georgia, 1976 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

TBS (Turner Broadcasting System) is an American cable TV network that shows sports and variety programming. TBS is well known for its broadcasts of the Atlanta Braves Major League Baseball team and various National Basketball Association games. TBS also shows reruns of popular network television shows from the past.

[[Good Luck Charlie]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American television series, 2011 American television series debuts, 2014 American television series endings, American sitcoms, Disney Channel shows, Television series by Disney, English-language television programs

Good Luck Charlie is an American sitcom. It was created by Phil Baker and Drew Vaupen. They wanted to create a program that would appeal to entire families, not just children. Production began in August 2009. The show premiered on Disney Channel in the United States on April 4, 2010. It premiered in Canada on April 5, 2010. It premiered in the United Kingdom and Ireland on May 14, 2010. It premiered in Colorado america on July 23, 2010. In March 2011, a feature-length Christmas Disney Channel Original Movie based on the series, entitled Good Luck Charlie, It's Christmas!, began production for a December 2011 premiere. In June 2013, Disney Channel announced that the series would end its run after four seasons. The finale aired on February 16, 2014, with a one-hour episode.

[[Shake It Up (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, 2010s American television series, 2010 American television series debuts, 2013 American television series endings, Disney Channel shows, Television series by Disney, English-language television programs

Shake It Up! is a Disney Channel original series starring Bella Thorne, Zendaya Coleman, and Roshon Fegan. The show is in a show-within-a-show format. It premiered on November 7, 2010. In 2011, Disney Channel confirmed that a movie based on the show is currently being produced.

[[Indian Camp]]

CATEGORIES: 1924, 20th-century American short stories

"Indian Camp" is a short story written by Ernest Hemingway.

[[Help Wanted (SpongeBob SquarePants)]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants episodes, 1999 television episodes

"Help Wanted" is the pilot episode of SpongeBob SquarePants. It is the first episode of the first season. It first aired on May 1, 1999.

[[Magellanic Clouds]]

CATEGORIES: Local galaxies, Dwarf galaxies

The Magellanic Clouds are two irregular, dwarf galaxies. They do not have a regular shape, and only have a few billion stars. The Magellanic Clouds can only be seen from the southern hemisphere. They orbit the Milky Way galaxy.  They, along with the Milky Way and Andromeda Galaxy, are part of the Local Group of over 50 galaxies.  The two clouds are known as the:

[[Christmas Who?]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants episodes, 2000 in American television, 2000 television episodes, Christmas television episodes

"Christmas Who?" (also known as "The SpongeBob Christmas Special") is the 28 episode of the second season of SpongeBob SquarePants. The special received positive feedback. A reviewer on Reviewstream.com calls it "a great story of the holiday spirit". The special currently ranks a high 9.1 out of 10 on TV.com.

[[Graveyard Shift]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants episodes, 2002 in American television, 2002 television episodes

"Graveyard Shift" is the 36th episode of the second season of SpongeBob SquarePants. Reviewstream had given a positive feedback, stating that it is a "funny episode," although stating that "it might frighten younger viewers." A DVD Verdict critic also stated the episode to be one of his favorites, stating that it had a "funny dialogue." DVD Talk also gave a positive score.

[[Sailor Mouth]]

CATEGORIES: SpongeBob SquarePants episodes, 2001 in American television, 2001 television episodes, Television episodes about profanity

"Sailor Mouth" is the 38th episode of the second season of SpongeBob SquarePants. The episode was watched by 8.7 million viewers. Erik Wiese, a member of the SpongeBob SquarePants crew, stated that "Sailor Mouth" was one of his favorite episodes because of its random and satirical nature, saying "Sometimes SpongeBob just catches me off-guard."

[[Amor Prohibido (disambiguation)]]

Amor Prohibido ("Forbidden Love") may be for:

[[Trinomial nomenclature]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy

In biology, trinomial nomenclature is used to name living things at a rank lower than species. The term trinomial nomenclature means "three-part name" or "system of three-part names".  

If living things r than species get a scientific name, each name has three parts.  The first part indicates the genus, the second part indicates the species, and the third part is particular to the living thing (at whatever rank it has been assigned).

[[Dreaming of You (disambiguation)]]

Dreaming of You may be for:

[[Como La Flor (disambiguation)]]

Como La Flor may be for:

[[Siberian crane]]

CATEGORIES: Critically endangered species, Cranes

The Siberian crane (Grus leucogeranus) or Siberian white crane or snow crane, is a critically endangered crane.  They occur in three groups: the eastern group, which migrates from eastern Siberia to China, the central group, which migrates from western Siberia to India, and the western group, which migrate from western Russia to Iran

[[The Climb (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs, Miley Cyrus songs

The Climb is a song performed by Miley Cyrus. It was released in 2009 as part of Hannah Montana: The Movie. The song received strong musical ranks on the charts worldwide.

[[Nyarlathotep]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in written fiction

Nyarlathotep is the god of nightmares and chaos in the Cthulhu Mythos, a fictional universe. It has many forms.

It is one of the oldest beings within the Mythos, along with Yog-Sothoth and Shub-Niggurath.

Unlike most other Mythos beings, Nyarlathotep enjoys interacting with humans (and other helpless critters) and then driving them mad. It is also credited with giving humans the atomic bomb, with hopes that humanity kills itself off.

[[Suiko Seamount]]

CATEGORIES: Seamounts, Pacific Ocean, Volcanoes of Oceania

Suiko Seamount is an underwater volcano (seamount) of the Hawaiian–Emperor seamount chain in the Pacific Ocean. Suiko is an extinct volcano. 

The seamount is also known as the "Suiko Guyot" because it has a flat top.  This undersea geologic feature is also called a "guyot" or "tablemount".

This seabed mountain is named after Empress Suiko of Japan.

The last eruption from Suiko seamount was 60 million years ago.

[[DeVry University]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s establishments in Illinois, 1931 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Illinois

DeVry University is a private university with campuses in the United States. Its main programs of study are business administration, computer engineering, electrical engineering, network communication management, and other technology related studies. 

The university operates on a trimester course schedule and, if taken full time, a person can graduate with a Bachelor's Degree in three years or less.

[[Nintoku Seamount]]

CATEGORIES: Seamounts, Pacific Ocean, Volcanoes of Oceania

Nintoku Seamount is an underwater volcano (seamount) of the Hawaiian–Emperor seamount chain in the Pacific Ocean.  Nintoku is an extinct volcano.

The seamount is also known as the "Nintoku Guyot" because it has a flat top.  This undersea geologic feature is also called a "guyot" or "tablemount".

This seabed mountain is named after Emperor Nintoku of Japan.

The last eruption from Nintoku seamount was 65 million years ago.

[[Light machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Light machine guns

A light machine gun, or LMG, is a type of machine gun that is designed to be used by only one soldier. Light machine guns are often used as squad automatic weapons.

[[Meiji Seamount]]

CATEGORIES: Seamounts, Pacific Ocean, Volcanoes of Oceania

Meiji Seamount is an underwater volcano (seamount) of the Hawaiian–Emperor seamount chain in the Pacific Ocean.  Meiji is an extinct volcano. 

The seamount is also known as "Meiji Guyot" because it has a flat top. This undersea geologic feature is also called a "guyot" or "tablemount".

This seabed mountain is named after Emperor Meiji of Japan.

The last eruption from Meiji seamount was 62 million years ago.

[[E. E. Cummings]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1962 deaths, American poets, American Christians, Harvard University alumni, Writers from Massachusetts

Edward Estlin Cummings (October 14, 1894 – September 3, 1962) or best known as E. E. Cummings was an American poet. He is also known for his works as a painter, essayist, author, and playwright. He had created about 2,900 poems, two autobiographical novels, four plays and several essays. E. E. Cummings had done a lot of drawings as well as paintings. He is best known as the preeminent voice of 20th century poetry. 

[[Yūryaku Seamount]]

CATEGORIES: Seamounts, Pacific Ocean, Volcanoes of Oceania

Yūryaku Seamount is an underwater volcano (seamount) of the Hawaiian–Emperor seamount chain in the Pacific Ocean.  Yūryaku is an extinct volcano.   

The seamount is also known as the "Yūryaku Guyot" because it has a flat top.  This undersea geologic feature is also called a "guyot" or "tablemount". 

This seabed mountain is named after Emperor Yūryaku of Japan.

The last eruption from Yūryaku seamount was 43 million years ago.

[[Kimmei Seamount]]

CATEGORIES: Seamounts, Pacific Ocean, Volcanoes of Oceania

Kimmei Seamount is an underwater volcano (seamount) of the  Hawaiian–Emperor seamount chain in the Pacific Ocean.  Kimmei is an extinct volcano.

This seabed mountain is named after Emperor Kimmei of Japan.

The last eruption from Kimmei seamount was 40 million years ago. Kimmei was formed at least 47.9 million years ago.

[[Minister Mentor]]

CATEGORIES: Members of the Cabinet of Singapore, Political office-holders in Singapore

Minister Mentor (内阁资政, Menteri Mentor) is a Singapore cabinet position created in 2004 as part of a change in Singapore's political leadership. The reason the government gave for creating this job is that Lee Kuan Yew can still help and advise the government.

The newly appointed Prime Minister, Lee Hsien Loong (son of Lee Kuan Yew and the next prime minister after Goh Chok Tong), announced Lee Kuan Yew's new  together with the naming of his Cabinet on August 12, 2004.  Before being appointed as Minister Mentor, Lee Kuan Yew held the post of Senior Minister (1990–2004) in the Cabinet of then Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong. This role of Minister Mentor was considered by some academics to be a sign that Lee Kuan Yew, despite no longer being the Prime Minister of Singapore, still had some power in Singapore's government.

On 14th May 2011, Lee and Senior Minister Goh Chok Tong announced their retirement from the cabinet after General Elections 2011, which had changed Singapore's politics.

The late founding Prime Minister, Mr Lee Kuan Yew was the first and only Minister Mentor of Singapore. 

[[Double helix]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry, Molecular biology

In geometry, a double helix (plural double helices) is two helices with the same axis, but they differ by a translation along the axis. The term is most often used in reference to the nucleic acid double helix, the main structure of nucleic like DNA and RNA.

[[Cuatro Torres Business Area]]

CATEGORIES: Madrid, 2000s establishments in Spain

Cuatro Torres Business Area is a place in Madrid. "Cuatro Torres" is Spanish. It means "Four Towers" in English. Four skyscrapers were built here between 2006 and 2009. Each building is about 250 m tall. They are the tallest buildings in Spain.

[[Trillion]]

CATEGORIES: Integers

a Trillion (also known as one trillion and 1012) is a number used as a place value in space or biological stats.

[[Frank Abagnale]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American fraudsters, Businesspeople from New York City

Frank William Abagnale, Jr. (born April 27, 1948 in Bronxville, New York City, United States) is an American security consultant. He used to be a check forger, impostor, and escape artist. He had a bad reputation in the 1960s for passing $2.5 million worth of carefully forged checks across 26 countries for five years, beginning when he was 16 years old.

He said he had created at least eight separate identities, pretending to be an airline pilot, a doctor, a prison agent, and a lawyer. He escaped from police custody twice (once from a moving airplane at the airport and once from an American prison), before he was 21 years old.

He served less than five years in prison before starting to work for the American federal (national) government. He is a consultant and lecturer at the academy of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), which is the national police of the United States. He also runs Abagnale & Associates, a financial fraud consultancy company.

Abagnale's life story was made into the movie Catch Me If You Can directed by Steven Spielberg in 2002 and starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks. It is based on the autobiography Catch Me If You Can by Frank Abagnale. A Broadway musical Catch Me If You Can opened in April 2011 in New York City.

[[Someone like You (Adele song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s ballads, 2011 songs, Adele songs, Pop ballads, Soul songs, R&B songs, Torch songs

"Someone like You" is the second hit single on Adele's record 21. The song was released in 2011. This was her first number one song in the United Kingdom and her second in the USA. It received positive review by music critics.February 2012  The song is played only with Adele's voice and piano.

In 2012, the song was certified quintuple-Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America.  "Someone like You" is Adele's third-best selling single in the United States, after "Rolling in the Deep" and "Hello".  It reached number 24 on Billboard's Year-End Hot 100 of 2011 and number 43 on the year-end chart for 2012.

[[Kegon Falls]]

CATEGORIES: Waterfalls, Bodies of water of Japan, Geography of Japan

Kegon Falls (華厳滝 Kegon no Taki) is a waterfall in Japan in Nikkō National Park in Tochigi Prefecture on the island of Honshū. It is fed by Lake Chūzenji, which is the source of the Oshiri River which flows through this waterfall. The waterfall is 97 high. The Kegon Falls and Nikkō National Park are one of the most famous and popular places in Japan. Thousands of people visit each year. 

In 1927, the Kegon Falls was recognized as one of the "Eight Views" which best showed Japan and its culture in the Shōwa period.

The waterfall is also infamous for suicides, especially among Japanese youth (Werther Effect).

[[Razor shell]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

Razor shells, also called razor clams, are bivalves with the shape of an old-fashioned cut-throat razor. They use their shells to work into the sand and hide beneath the surface.

Ensis, of the family Pharidae, is found on sandy beaches in Northern Europe and Eastern Canada, such as Prince Edward Island. Ensis arcuatus prefers coarser sand than its relatives E. ensis and E. siliqua.

There is also another family of razor shells, the Solenidae. Some think Solen and Ensis are close relatives, and some think they are similar because of convergent evolution. The matter will probably be made clear by sequence analysis in the furure.

[[Cockle]]

CATEGORIES: Bivalves

Cockles are a group of (mostly) small, edible, saltwater clams. They are marine bivalve molluscs in the family Cardiidae. 

They are very common on sandy sheltered beaches throughout the world. The distinctive rounded shells of cockles are symmetrical, and are heart-shaped when viewed from the end. In most genera there are numerous radial ribs (ridges on the shell). The genus Laevicardium, the egg cockles, have very smooth shells.

The mantle has three openings (inhalant, exhalant, and pedal) for siphoning water and for the foot to stick out. Cockles are capable of 'jumping' by bending and straightening the foot. Cockles burrow using the foot, and feed by filtering plankton from the surrounding water. Some species reach maturity quickly.

Confusingly, the common name "cockle" is also given (by seafood sellers) to a number of other small edible bivalves which have a somewhat similar shape, however these bivalves are in other families such as the Veneridae (Venus clams) and the Arcidae (ark clams). Cockles in the family Cardiidae are sometimes known as "true cockles" in order to distinguish them from these other species.

[[Vernon Castle]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1918 deaths, English dancers

[[Wildfire]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Fire

Wildfire is a general term which includes forest fires, grassland fires, bushfires, brush fires and any other vegetation fire in countryside areas.

Wildfires occur in every continent except Antarctica. They can occur naturally and spontaneously, but many are caused by humans, accidentally or deliberately. Fossil records and human history show that wildfires do occur at intervals. The Great Oxygenation Event and the spread of land plants made Earth a planet of fire.

Wildfires can cause extensive damage to property and human life, but they also have some beneficial effects on wilderness areas. Some plant species depend on the effects of fire for growth and reproduction, although large wildfires may also have negative ecological effects.

Strategies of wildfire prevention, detection, and suppression have varied over the years. One of the more controversial methods is controlled burn: People permit or light small fires to burn away some of the fuel for a potential wildfire. While some wildfires burn in remote forested regions, they can cause extensive destruction of homes and other property in the zone between developed areas and undeveloped wilderness.

[[Bipod]]

CATEGORIES: Photography, Firearms

Bipod comes from the Latin and Greek words "bi" and "pod". "Bi" means "two" and "pod" means "foot", or "feet". A bipod is sometimes attached to a firearm to help support it. It also makes it more stable. It gives the best stability along two axes of motion: side-to-side and up-and-down. 

[[Emperor Jomei]]

CATEGORIES: 593 births, 641 deaths, Emperors of Japan

Emperor Jomei was the 34th Emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  His reign started in 629 and ended in 641.  Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Jomei to be possibly legendary, but probable. The name Jomei-tennō was created for him posthumously by later generations.

The conventionally accepted names and sequence of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as "traditional" until the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.

[[Lawson Inada]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, American jazz musicians, American poets, Musicians from California, Writers from California, People from Fresno, California

Lawson Fusao Inada (born 1938 in Fresno, California) is an American poet and was the fifth poet laureate of the U.S. state of Oregon.

[[Nobushige Hozumi]]

CATEGORIES: 1856 births, 1926 deaths, Japanese politicians, People from Ehime Prefecture

Hozumi Nobushige was a Japanese statesman and legal expert in Meiji period.

Hozumi was appointed to the House of Peers in 1890.

In 1915, he was ennobled with the title of danshaku (baron) under the kazoku system.

In 1916, Horzumi was named to the Emperor's Privy Council in 1916.

[[Sport Relief]]

CATEGORIES: BBC, Sports

Sport Relief is a charity event from Comic Relief that happens every two years. It is held in association with BBC Sport. The event brings together the worlds of sport and entertainment to raise money to help vulnerable people in both the UK and the world's poorest countries. At the heart of the campaign is the Sport Relief Mile.

[[Pope Gregory I]]

CATEGORIES: 540 births, 604 deaths, Christian theologians, Christian writers, Italian popes, People from Rome

Pope Gregory I (Gregorius Primus; c. 540 – 12 March 604), better known in English as Gregory the Great, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 64th Pope from 3 September 590 to his death in 604.

Gregory was born in Rome, but the date of his birth is not certain.  He was the son of a noble Roman family.

Gregory was elected pope in 590.

[[Casino Marina del Sol]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Chile, 21st-century establishments in Chile, 2005 establishments in South America

The Casino Marina del Sol is the largest casino in Chile. It is in the city of Talcahuano. It opened in 2005 under a Chilean law allowing casinos. It contains a casino, hotel, gym, spa, disco, museum and car park.

[[Functional magnetic resonance imaging]]

CATEGORIES: Medical tests, Medical imaging

Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) is a special type of MRI that makes it possible to watch different areas of a person's brain while they do different tasks.

A functional MRI shows the use of oxygen in different brain areas. The Deoxyhemoglobin in blood absorbs a radiowave signal and later emits it (sends it back out). Oxyhemoglobin does not. When an area of the brain is active, the blood flow to that area increases and more oxyhemoglobin is delivered to supply the active cells with oxygen. This means less of the signal is absorbed. An active area of the  brain absorbs and emits less energy than a less active area. This can be seen live as it is happening when different areas of the brain 'light up' on the images as they become less active.

[[My Prerogative]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 songs, Britney Spears songs

"My Prerogative" is a song first released in 1988 in the United States and then recorded again in 2004. The earlier version was by Bobby Brown. The 2004 version was by Britney Spears. Other people have covered the song since then. It has been sampled in other songs.

[[Cultural icon]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols, Cultural history

A cultural icon can be a symbol, logo, picture, name, face, person, building, or other image. It is easily recognized and generally represents an object or idea with great cultural significance to a wide cultural group. It has a special status as representing, or important to, or loved by, a particular group of people, a place, or a period in history.

In the media, many well-known examples of popular culture have been called "iconic". Some writers say that the word is overused.

[[Sciadopitys]]

CATEGORIES: Conifers, Living fossils, Fossil plants

Sciadopitys,  the Japanese umbrella-pine, is a unique conifer. It is endemic to Japan, and the sole surviving member of the family Sciadopityaceae. It is a living fossil with no close relatives: its fossils date from 230 million years ago. 

It is an evergreen tree that can grow 15-27m tall. Its brown main shoots have whorls of 7–12 cm long flexible green "cladodes". These look like, and perform the function of, leaves but are actually composed of stem tissue. Occasionally, a cladode will fork and produce a bud in the 'v' of the fork, just like a normal stem. 

The cones are 6–11 cm long, mature in about 18 months, and have flattish scales that open to release the seeds.

It is a very attractive tree and is popular in gardens, despite its slow growth rate and high cost. Koyamaki was chosen as the Japanese Imperial crest for Prince Hisahito of Akishino, currently third in line to the Chrysanthemum Throne.

The plant was first introduced to Europe by John Gould Veitch in September 1860.

Infrared microspectroscopy has identified conifers of the family Sciadopityaceae as the principal source of Baltic amber.

[[General-purpose machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Medium machine guns, General-purpose machine guns

A general-purpose machine gun (GPMG) is a machine gun which gets its ammunition from a belt. It can be used in many different roles: it can support infantry from a bipod or tripod or be put onto a helicopter or armoured vehicle. It can provide fire support for vehicles or infantry from a variety of mounts.

A general-purpose machine gun is generally a medium machine gun. It also fires rifle cartridges like the 7.62×51mm NATO or 7.92x57mm Mauser. It is usually used from a bipod, tripod or on a vehicle. This is because it is usually too powerful and heavy to be fired well on foot or while moving.

[[Yamashiro Province]]

CATEGORIES: Former provinces of Japan, Kyoto Prefecture

Yamashiro Province was a old province of Japan in the area of Kyoto Prefecture on the island of Honshū.

Kyoto is in the former Yamashiro Province.   

[[Symphyla]]

CATEGORIES: Myriapods

Symphyla are soil-dwelling arthropods in the subphylum Myriapoda. 

They are relatives of centipedes. Symphylans look like centipedes, but are smaller and translucent. They move through the pores between soil particles. They are found from the surface down to a depth of about 50 cm. They eat decaying vegetation, and can do harm in agriculture by eating seeds, roots, and root hairs in cultivated soil.

They feed on decayed vegetation.

[[Pauropod]]

CATEGORIES: Myriapods

Pauropods are a type of myriapod. They form the only order in the class Pauropoda. About 500 species in four families are found worldwide, living in soil and leaf mold. 

[[Defence against herbivory]]

CATEGORIES: Botany, Coevolution, Ecology

Defence against herbivory describes plant defences to avoid being eaten. There are many adaptations which improve the survival and reproduction of plants by reducing the effect of herbivores.

Many plants produce chemicals which change the behaviour, growth, or survival of herbivores. These chemical defences can act as repellents or toxins to herbivores, or reduce plant digestibility. Some plants, known as hyperaccumulators, specialise in storing heavy metals which are toxic to animals.

Some plants encourage the presence of natural enemies of herbivores, which in turn protect the plant. Some plants provide a home for ants which defend the plant strongly.

Other defensive strategies used by plants include escaping or avoiding herbivores in time or in place. They may grow where plants are not easily found or got at by herbivores. They may grow when herbivores are not around. Herbivores may get diverted towards non-essential parts, or a plant may be able to recover from the damage caused by herbivory.

Each type of defence can be either constitutive (always present in the plant), or induced (produced in reaction to damage or stress caused by herbivores). Plants can and do react to damage.

Historically, insects have been the most significant herbivores, especially the larvae of insects. The evolution of land plants is closely associated with the evolution of insects.  While most plant defences are directed against insects, other defences have evolved that are aimed at vertebrate herbivores, such as birds and mammals.

The study of plant defences against herbivory is important, not only from an evolutionary viewpoint, but also because these defences can be used in agriculture, including human and livestock food sources.

[[Wheeling Tunnel]]

CATEGORIES: Tunnels

The Wheeling Tunnel is a pair of tunnels in Wheeling, Ohio County, West Virginia. The tunnels allow Interstate 70 and U.S. Route 250 to go through Wheeling Hill. Each tunnel has two lanes of each road.

The tunnel is run by the West Virginia Division of Highways.  Opened in 1966, the Wheeling Tunnel cost $6.9 million to build. It was rebuilt between 2007 and 2010 for $13.7 million.  In 2009, an average of 59,600 cars used the tunnel every day.

[[Postgenderism]]

CATEGORIES: Gender

Postgenderism means 'beyond gender'.

The word is used to describe the idea, the social current or the evolution that fades or gets rid of gender and/or sex in humans and society.

It is also used to describe a set of social norms or a persons identity that goes beyond classical gender and sex-determinations and places them in the past, let them fade or dissapear.

Postgenderism argues that marking people into different sex of gender groups and gender roles is not needed and results in a limitation on the possibilities of people and what they can achieve in life.

It foresees that gender will disappear with humans that don't want this, as a result of always changing ways the human species organises their lives and as a result of new technology advances.

[[Kawachi Province]]

CATEGORIES: Former provinces of Japan, Osaka Prefecture

Kawachi Province was a old province of Japan in the area of Osaka Prefecture on the island of Honshū. 

[[Karl Friedrich Schinkel]]

CATEGORIES: 1781 births, 1841 deaths, German architects, German painters, People from Brandenburg, People from Prussia, Urban planners

Karl Friedrich Schinkel (13 March 1781 – 9 October 1841) was a Prussian architect, city planner, and painter.  He also designed furniture and stage sets. Schinkel was one of the most importat architects of Germany and designed both neoclassical and neogothic buildings.

[[Hey, Soul Sister]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 songs

"Hey, Soul Sister" is a hit song under the musical group Train. The single was released in August 2009 as the lead single on Train's fifth album Save Me, San Francisco. This song peaked at number 3 on Billboard Hot 100 and is Train's highest and its most commercially successful song, though the single was not eligible for any Grammy Award in the General Field.

[[Hardwood]]

CATEGORIES: Wood

Hardwood is wood from deciduous trees and broad-leaf evergreen trees.  All hardwoods are angiosperms (flowering plants), the largest group of land plants.

Hardwood is contrasted to softwood, which comes from conifers, cone bearing seed plants. Hardwoods are not always harder than softwoods, balsa wood being an example of this. Hardwood trees are more varied than softwoods and there are about 100 times more species of hardwood than there are softwoods. Hardwoods usually have broad leaves. Hardwoods all have enclosed nuts or seeds, where softwoods are gymnosperms, naked seed plants.leis

Each species of hardwood has its own set of properties, however they have some properties in common. Hardwoods normally have broad leaves and come from deciduous or broad-leafed evergreen trees. Hardwoods grow slower than softwoods. Evergreen softwoods grow faster than deciduous hardwoods, and can grow to a larger size. Some hardwoods are excellent for carving. One of the hardest hardwoods is black ironwood which is recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records as the heaviest wood. Ironwoods are so dense that they sink in water rather than float as other woods do.

The properties of the wood are caused by its structure. Hardwoods have a denser structure, which is the reason they are usually harder and heavier. Hardwood has xylem vessels which are used to transport water. Their cell walls are strongly lignified: lignin is a hard material used to support plants above the surface. The quantity of lignin is probably the main factor in their hardness.

Softwoods have a vascular structure which looks similar to a bunch of drinking straws held together. They also have lignin, but of a slightly different type, and less of it than most hardwoods.

[[HM Prison Pentridge]]

CATEGORIES: Prisons, Buildings and structures in Melbourne, Law enforcement in Australia, 1851 establishments, 1997 disestablishments, 1850s establishments in Australia, 20th century disestablishments in Australia

HM Prison Pentridge was an Australian prison built in 1850 in Coburg, Victoria. The first prisoners arrived in 1851. The prison was closed on 1 May 1997.

Pentridge was often known by the nicknames "The Bluestone College", "Coburg College" or the "College of Knowledge". The grounds were originally landscaped by renowned landscape gardener Hugh Linaker. Since closing, much of the prison has been pulled down to make way for a housing development. Large buildings have been built and a 16 floor modern apartment block is being planned.

The northern section of the prison being developed by Valad Property Group and the other areas by Pentridge Village. The National Trust does not like the development plans approved by Heritage Victoria. These plans include taking down sections of the outside walls and building apartments between the historic prison buildings.

[[Michael Chabon]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Washington, D.C., Living people, 1963 births, Pulitzer Prize winners

Michael Chabon is an American author. His first novel was called The Mysteries of Pittsburgh  and published in 1988. Chabon was 25 years old. The book made him famous among writers. He has also written genre fiction. Chabon published The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay in 2000. It won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 2001. 

[[Amit]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

[[Izumi Province]]

CATEGORIES: Former provinces of Japan, Osaka Prefecture

Izumi Province was an old province of Japan in the area of Osaka Prefecture on the island of Honshū. 

[[Settsu Province]]

CATEGORIES: Former provinces of Japan, Osaka Prefecture

Settsu Province was a old province of Japan in the area of Hyōgo Prefecture and Osaka Prefecture on the island of Honshū. 

The ancient capital city of the province was Osaka.

[[Chloris]]

CATEGORIES: Greek mythology

Chloris ("Khloris" or Χλωρίς, from "Khloros" or χλωρός, meaning "greenish-yellow," "pale green," "pale," or "fresh") refers to several figures in Greek mythology. Some stories refer to different characters. Others refer to the same Chloris, but have different details.

[[Portable Network Graphics]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

Portable Network Graphics (Often shortened to PNG) is a bitmapped image format that uses lossless data compression.

Their most common use is within transparent images, as it does support an alpha channel along with a 16-bit color channel.

[[Curaçao]]

CATEGORIES: Dependent territories, Curaçao, Caribbean Community

Curaçao is an island country in the Caribbean Sea. It is one of the ABC islands and is just a short distance north of the Venezuelan Paraguaná Peninsula, and it forms a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Willemstad is the capital of Curaçao.

[[Ox Mountain]]

CATEGORIES: Folklore, Literature

Ox Mountain (牛山 Niú Shān) is a story by the Chinese philosopher Mencius.  In his time this mountain was in very bad shape, and everybody knew how it looked. Here is the story:

Mencius argued that "bad" human natures were produced just as the bad condition of Ox Mountain had been produced, so the answer to "bad" humans was to protect and nurture them from birth. He also thought that punishment does not do much good. It does not cure the root of the problem.

[[Human zoo]]

CATEGORIES: Cultural anthropology

A human zoo was an exhibition that showed people from other cultures. Very often, this was done in similar ways than animals are shown in zoological gardens today. Most such exhibitions were done between 1870 and 1940. Human zoos attracted many people in Europe. They were often based on the idea of unilinealism, scientific racism and social Darwinism. Unilinealism or unilineal evolution is the idea that evolution happens only in one direction; some animal will be "at the peak" of evolution. Because of these ideas, some human zoos placed indigenous people (particularly Africans) in a continuum somewhere between the great apes and humans of European descent. Ethnographic zoos have since been criticized as highly degrading and racist.

[[Rye Beach, New Hampshire]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in New Hampshire, Unincorporated communities in the United States, 1884 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in New Hampshire

Rye Beach is a community in the U.S. state of New Hampshire. It used to be called Pannaway. It is along the Atlantic Ocean. It is in Rye, New Hampshire, United States. It is along New Hampshire Route 1A, near the south of a town named "Rye". 

In the community, there is a hostel. It is called the "Ocean house" and it was built in 1884. When it was built, it was small, but over time, it reached 4 stories and it had room for 250 guests. It was called the Philbrick Hotel when it was first built, but an Admiral called David Farragut visited the hotel, so it sometimes was called "Farragut House".

[[Dan Wheldon]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, 2011 deaths, Accidental deaths in the United States, Deaths in sport, English racecar drivers, Sportspeople from Buckinghamshire, IndyCar Series drivers

Daniel Clive Wheldon (22 June 1978 – 16 October 2011) was a British motor racing driver. He was the 2005 Indy Racing League IndyCar Series champion. He was also the winner of the Indianapolis 500 in 2005 and 2011. He was killed at the age of 33, in a 15-car crash at the IZOD IndyCar World Championship.

[[Ise Province]]

CATEGORIES: Former provinces of Japan, Mie Prefecture

Ise Province was an old province of Japan in the area of modern Mie Prefecture on the island of Honshū.  

The province had borders with Iga, Kii, Mino, Ōmi, Owari, Shima, and Yamato.

When the province was created in 646, its capital city was Uji-Yamada. 

[[Iga Province]]

CATEGORIES: Former provinces of Japan, Mie Prefecture

Iga Province was an old province of Japan in the area of Mie Prefecture on the island of Honshū. It was sometimes called Ishū. 

The province had borders with Ise, Ōmi, Yamato, and Yamashiro.

The capital city of the province was Ueno, also called Iga-Ueno.

[[Curing salt]]

CATEGORIES: Food ingredients

Curing salt (or pink salt or Prague powder #1) is mixture of salt and sodium nitrate that is used to preserve or cure meats or in the making of sausages. It contains 93.75% table salt and 6.25% sodium nitrite. The sodium nitrite in curing salt is used to stop the growth of Clostridium botulinum in order to prevent botulism. Curing salt may be dyed pink preventing it from being confused with table salt.

[[Ferdinand VI of Spain]]

CATEGORIES: 1713 births, 1759 deaths, People from Madrid, Kings and Queens of Spain, Princes and Princesses of Asturias, Spanish House of Bourbon

Ferdinand VI (Fernando; 23 September 1713 – 10 August 1759) was a King of Spain July 1746 until his death in 1759 aged 49 He was the fourth son of the previous monarch Philip V and his first wife Maria Luisa of Savoy. The third Bourbon to rule Spain, he died childless and his half brother Charles became king. 

[[Neue Wache]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Berlin

The Neue Wache (New Guard House) is a building in central Berlin, the capital of Germany. It is located on the north side of the Unter den Linden. The Neue Wache was designed by the architect Karl Friedrich Schinkel, was built in 1816 and is a leading example of German neoclassicism. Originally it was built as a guardhouse for the troops of the Crown Prince of Prussia, the building has been used as a war memorial since 1931.

King Frederick William III of Prussia ordered the construction of the Neue Wache as a guard house for the nearby Palace of the Crown Prince, to replace the old Artillery Guard House. He commissioned Schinkel, the leading exponent of neoclassicism in architecture, to design the building: this was Schinkel's first major commission in Berlin.

[[Transitivity (grammar)]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar

Transitivity in grammar is about whether a verb has an object or not. A transitive verb has an object; an intransitive verb does not.p1051 Examples:

A transitive verb is an action verb. It expresses something doable (something possible to do). The direct object is something or someone who is the receiver of the action (verb). In the first two examples above, the 'trip' and the 'book' are the direct objects. 'Enjoyed' and 'read' are the transitive verbs.

[[Audio description]]

CATEGORIES: Audio technology

Audio description is an additional track of narration. It is targeted at visually impaired or blind consumers of television, dance, opera, movies or other visual art. In these tracks, a narrator talks through presentation and makes a description about what's happening during natural pauses in audio. Descriptive video service (DVS) is used for the DVDs of certain movies as part of the audio description.

[[Teak]]

CATEGORIES: Lamiaceae, Trees

Teak is the common name for the tropical hardwood tree Tectona grandis and its wood products. Tectona grandis is native to south and southeast Asia and grows in many countries. It has been introduced to Africa and the Caribbean. Burma produces nearly one third of the world's total teak.

The word teak comes from the Malayalam word theka or tekka. This tree is mentioned in the seventh-century literature of the Tamil language known as the Tevaram.

Tectona grandis is a large deciduous tree that is dominant in mixed hardwood forests. It has small, fragrant white flowers and papery leaves that are often hairy on the lower surface.

[[Reel-to-reel tape recorders]]

CATEGORIES: Magnetic tape

Reel-to-reel tape recorders (often called R2R, Open reel decks, etc.) were used during the 20th century, mostly in professional studios from the 1940’s and quickly spread into people’s homes in the 1950s and 1960s. The biggest popularity was in the 1970s, probably because people needed higher quality recordings. This technology was like a revolution, because everyone could record any kind of sound (vinyl records, radio broadcast, voice and music), then play it many times without the quality getting worse, and they could overwrite it many times. This technology has some weak points though: size of reels, sensibility, durability; but still, it has certain advantages over today’s “digital media formats.” Also, some famous bands and artists used reel to reel technology as a musical instrument  or even as a separate band.

[[Gym Class Heroes]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 1990s establishments in New York (state), 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rap music groups, Hip hop bands, Musical groups established in 1997, Musical groups from New York

Gym Class Heroes are an American hip hop band from Geneva, New York. They are associated with other musicians, including but not limited to Patrick Stump and Adam Levine of Maroon 5. On their album As Cruel as School Children is the song Cupid's Chokehold, which samples Breakfast in America by Supertramp. The band's lead singer is Travie McCoy.

[[Artificial cranial deformation]]

CATEGORIES: Traditions, Body art

Artificial cranial deformation, also known as head flattening or head binding is when the skull of a human is changed forever, and on purpose. It is done by changing how a child's skull grows by putting force on the skull. Flat shapes, long shapes and round shapes can be used to do this. It is done on young children. This is because the skull is easier to shape at this time. Usually, the shape that will be used to change the skull is attached about a month after the baby is born. It stays on for around six months after this.

The practice has been most often used in native societies in the Americas, but there are examples from Asia and Europe. The Toulouse deformation was caused by wrapping the head of the newborn, possible to protect it from damage. In pre-modern societies the practice was surprisingly common. 

In most cases the reasons for the practice is not known. 

[[Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United Nations, Human rights, 1965, Politics of South Africa, 20th century in South Africa

Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination is an international treaty (agreement between countries) against racism and racial segregation as one of the series of international human rights law. The United Nations adopted the convention on 21 December 1965 in response to the apartheid policy of South Africa at that time. It came into effect on 4 January 1969. As of April 2019, 88 countries agreed to follow the rules of the Convention, and 190 countries agree in principle.

The Convention defines what racial discrimination is, so that every country in the treaty can agree on how to define discrimination. In Article 1 (the first agreement in the treaty) that racial discrimination is:  "any distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent, or national or ethnic origin which has the purpose or effect of nullifying rid of'' or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural or any other field of public life."

Article 4 of the Convention forbids encouraging any type of racism including hate speech and discrimination. If a country agrees to the Convention, they must make hate speech and participation in hate groups illegal. To make sure that countries follow this rule, the Convention also introduced Article 14, which allows complaints of discrimination to be heard by a committee. Article 14 gives a person, or group of people, from any country who have suffered any discrimination against them because of their race, the right to submit a claim to a committee of the United Nations. These complaints can influence the law in the countries of the people making complaints. 

[[International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations, Human rights

The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights is a treaty made by the United Nations. It is to help civil rights get better.

The rights are listed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is one of the most important treaties in international human rights law. The Covenant was adopted on 16 December 1966 with the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. It was put into force in 1976. The United Nations set up the Committee on Civil and Political Rights (CCPR) to carry out the treaty.

[[International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations, Human rights

The International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights is a treaty made by the United Nations to ensure that the 

economic, social and cultural rights are affirmed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is one of the most important treaties on the international human rights law. This Covenant was adopted in 1966 together with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and entered into force in 1976.

[[Economic, social and cultural rights]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights

Economic, social and cultural rights are a part of human rights. In an important United Nations treaty called The International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the countries in the United Nations agreed that every person in the world should have these rights.  Some examples of these rights include:

These rights were already listed in the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights. However, they were included again in the International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights to make sure that giving people these rights would be the law all across the world.  

A separate Covenant specifically on economic, social, and cultural rights was done for a reason.  These rights were not included in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. These two Covenants were kept separate because civil rights are thought to be protected strongly than economic, social and cultural rights.  A separate Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights was done to make it clear how important these rights are.

As the Vienna Declaration says, all human rights must be protected equally because "all human rights are universal and cannot be divided."

[[Vickers machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Medium machine guns

The Vickers machine gun (also known as the Vickers gun) was a machine gun that was used by the British Army from 1912 to 1968. It was made by Vickers Limited. The gun was very reliable. It was one of the most commonly used weapons in the first world war.

[[Albania at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Nations at the Olympics, Sport in Albania

Albania at the Olympics is a history which began in 1972.

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Albania is ALB.

[[American Samoa at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Nations at the Olympics, American Samoa

American Samoa at the Olympics is a history which includes 8 games in 8 countries and 20+ athletes. Since 1988, American Samoa has contributed to the growth of the "Olympic Movement".

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for American Samoa is ASA.

[[Andorra at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Nations at the Olympics, Sport in Andorra

Andorra at the Olympics is a history which includes 20 games in 25 countries and 50+ athletes. Since 1988, Andorra has contributed to the growth of the "Olympic Movement".

The International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Andorra is AND.

[[Tori Spelling]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, American television producers, American television writers, American voice actors, writers from Los Angeles, California, 1973 births, Living people

Victoria Davey "Tori" Spelling (born on May 16, 1973) is an American actress, television writer and producer. 

[[Royal Standard of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Flags of the United Kingdom, Scotland, Royalty and nobility, British monarchy, 1222 establishments, Establishments in Scotland, 1220s establishments in Europe

The Royal Standard of Scotland, (Bratach rìoghail na h-Alba), also known as the Banner of the King of Scots, or more commonly the Lion Rampant of Scotland, is the Scottish Royal Banner of Arms. Used historically by the King of Scots, the Royal Standard of Scotland differs from Scotland's national flag, the Saltire, in that its correct use is restricted by an Act of the Parliament of Scotland to only a few Great Officers of State who officially represent the Sovereign in Scotland. It is also used in an official capacity at royal residences in Scotland when the Sovereign is not present.

The earliest recorded use of the Lion rampant as a royal emblem in Scotland was by Alexander II in 1222; with the additional embellishment of a double border set with lilies occurring during the reign of Alexander III (1249–1286). This emblem occupied the shield of the  royal coat of arms of the ancient Kingdom of Scotland which, together with a royal banner displaying the same, was used by the King of Scots until the Union of the Crowns in 1603, when James VI acceded to the thrones of the Kingdom of England and Kingdom of Ireland. Since 1603, the Lion rampant of Scotland has been incorporated into both the royal arms and royal banners of successive Scottish then British monarchs in order to symbolise Scotland; as can be seen today in the Royal Standard of the United Kingdom. Although now officially restricted to use by representatives of the Sovereign and at royal residences, the Royal Standard of Scotland continues to be one of Scotland's most recognisable symbols.

[[Flower of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems, Scotland

Flower of Scotland (Flùr na h-Alba) is a Scottish song, used mostly at special occasions and sporting events. Although Scotland has no official national anthem,  Flower of Scotland is one which is used, along with the older Scots Wha Hae, Scotland the Brave and Highland Cathedral. It was written by Roy Williamson of the folk group The Corries, and presented in 1967, and refers to the victory of the Scots, led by Robert the Bruce, over England's Edward II at the Battle of Bannockburn in 1314.

[[Thistle]]

CATEGORIES: Asteraceae, Scotland

Thistle is a group of flowering plants which have sharp prickles on around the flower and are in the Asteraceae family. The prickles often all over the plant – on the stem and flat parts of leaves. This protects the plant against herbivorous animals, stopping them from eating the plant.

The term thistle is sometimes taken to mean exactly those plants in the group Cynareae (synonym: Cardueae), especially the genera Carduus, Cirsium, and Onopordum.  However, plants outside this group are sometimes called thistles, and if this is done thistles would form a polyphyletic group.

Thistle is the floral emblem of Scotland.

[[Football in Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Football in Scotland

Association football is the most popular sport in Scotland. Scotland has the second oldest national Football Association in the world (behind England's FA), and the trophy for the national cup, the Scottish Cup, is the oldest sporting trophy in the world.

Scottish football club Rangers F.C. have won a world record 54 league titles.

Scotland and Scottish football clubs hold many records for football attendances;

The highest ever attendance for a UEFA competition match was in the 1969-70 European Cup semi-final at Hampden Park, Scotland's national stadium. A record 136,505 people attended that Cup semi-final played between Celtic and Leeds United 

The attendance of 149,415 for the Scotland vs. England match of 1937 at Hampden Park is also a European record. 

The attendance of 146,433 for the 1937 Scottish Cup final between Celtic and Aberdeen at Hampden Park is a European record for a club match. 

Rangers' record attendance of 118,567 is a British record for a league match. 

[[Micrograph]]

CATEGORIES: Photography, Microscopes

Micrographs are photographs taken through microscopes to show magnified versions of items. They are used for forensic engineering and forensic science to record trace evidence. Micrographs are also used for scanning electron microscopy so the sample areas selected for analysis are visible.

[[Felix Adjei]]

CATEGORIES: Ghanaian footballers, 1990 births, Living people, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Felix Adjei ( born 17 December 1990) is a football player from Ghana. He plays for F. C. Liefering, the second team of F.C. Red Bull Salzburg, in the SKY GO Erste Liga (2nd level in Austrian football) as midfielder.

[[Wolfgang Köhler]]

CATEGORIES: German psychologists, 1887 births, 1967 deaths

Wolfgang Köhler (21 January 1887 – 11 June 1967) was a German psychologist who, like Max Wertheimer and Kurt Koffka, helped create Gestalt psychology. He was the first to show that apes could solve problems by thinking.

[[Gluten-free diet]]

CATEGORIES: Nutrition

A gluten-free diet is a diet that excludes foods that have gluten. Gluten is a protein found in wheat, barley, rye, and possibly oats. Most breads, cakes, pastas/noodles, beers and pizzas are made with gluten. Gluten is used as a food additive in the form of a flavoring, stabilizing or thickening agent. It is often called "dextrin". Some non-foods, such as medications and vitamin supplements, especially those in tablet form, may contain gluten as a binding agent.

A gluten-free diet is the only medically accepted treatment for wheat allergy and coeliac disease (in North America, it is usually spelled "celiac disease").

Some gluten-free diets also exclude oats. Doctors do not agree on whether oats affect coeliac disease sufferers.

Many alcoholic beverages are gluten free, but many types of whiskey and beer contain gluten, because using grains is a necessary part of their production.

Gluten-free diets have become popular worldwide. Some say that such a diet can cause problems with Vitamin B and magnesium intake by the body, because wheat improves the rate in which humans body can use them.

Gluten-containing ingredients sometimes are used as colorants, preservatives and thickeners in products such as ice cream and ketchup.

Even some cosmetics like lip-balm and lipsticks can contain gluten, so persons wanting to follow such a diet need to learn about which products contain wheat and its byproducts.

[[Little Havana]]

CATEGORIES: Miami, Florida

Little Havana (La Pequeña Habana) is a section of Miami, Florida, where many Cuban immigrants and refugees have settled. The high number of Cuban refugees Florida receives is due to its proximity to Cuba.  It is called Little Havana because Cuba's capital is Havana.  There is also a smaller Little Havana in Tampa, Florida.

In recent years, increasing numbers of Honduran, Nicaraguan, and Guatemalan immigrants have moved into the neighborhood. At the same time, increasing numbers of Cubans left the area for the suburbs in western Miami.  Part of Little Havana is now called Little Managua named after the Nicaraguan capital.

[[Howard Stern]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, American autobiographers, American radio personalities, American television producers, American television talk show hosts, American television writers, Comedians from New York City, People from Queens, Television personalities from New York City, Writers from New York City

Howard Stern (born January 12, 1954) is an American radio and television personality known for his radio show, The Howard Stern Show.

Stern was born in Jackson Heights, Queens, New York City.

He originally started as a disc jockey for a New York station playing rock music.  He discovered a talent for comedy, and developed a wide-ranging confrontational style that encouraged listeners to call in.  Eventually, in the 1990s, his show was widely distributed. As an example, in one of his most infamous episodes, he persuaded a female caller to have phone sex with him on the air.  He made deep buzzing noises into his microphone, and had her sit on a speaker with the volume turned up.

Stern's crude style of entertainment (which many listeners support) has earned him the title "King Of All Media" -- at least in the eyes of his fans.  His show is frequently the subject of complaints by various listeners (and occasionally ethnic groups) who find his shows offensive.  Radio stations airing his show have occasionally been subjected to fines for violating FCC requirements due to the content of the show, but the parent conglomerate (Infinity Broadcasting) that hosts Stern's show seems to consider these fines a necessary price to pay, in order to support Stern's continuing popularity. In 1994 Stern ran for Governor of the state of New York.  

Stern is the most popular and well-known of a variety of offensive radio hosts known generally as "shock jocks."  In spite of the crude content of his show, many radio listeners consider Stern's delivery to be far from the worst quality radio aired today.  His popularity has given rise to a number of imitation "shock jocks" who attempt to outdo Stern in terms of offensiveness and rudeness...but these imitators have found themselves with more troubles to worry about than listener ratings.  In 2002 rival radio hosts Opie and Anthony were fired from their popular radio show after they encouraged a couple to engage in sexual intercourse at Saint Patrick's Cathedral in New York City, then airing a running commentary of the act on their show.  Stern, his supporters note, has not gone out of his way to offend the general public in this manner.

On January 15, 1998 Lance Carvin, who had been stalking Stern, was sentenced to two and a half years in prison for threatening to kill Stern and his family.

[[Myra (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, American child singers, Pop singers, American dancers, Living people, Singers from California

Mayra Caryl Ambrosia Quintana — better known under the mononym, Myra — was born on April 21, 1987 in Los Angeles,California. to Salvador Ambrosia and Consuelo Quintana, Myra is an American singer, dancer and choreographer of Mexican descent. She is the first Latina artist to have been signed to Hollywood Records, Walt Disney Records, and Avex Trax. She rose to prominence in 2001 after recording a cover of Martha and the Vandellas' "Dancing in the Street" for the soundtrack to the 2001 film Recess: School's Out (which she would then re-record in 2002 in Spanish for the Disney Channel original movie, Gotta Kick It Up!). However, her first album released before being signed to Disney -released in 1997, was the Mariachi album Mensajera del Amór, released by Briaz Promotions. At the time of its release, Myra was then known as Mayra Caról. During her Disney-era portion of her career, she contributed her vocals to the song "Miracles Happen (When You Believe)" to the film The Princess Diaries, and it received a 2002 ALMA Award nomination for Outstanding Song in a Motion Picture Soundtrack. Her debut album Myra included these two tracks and were released as singles and both included a music video. The album "Myra" was released in four different formats.

The self-titled album Myra was released in the US and other English-speaking countries in June 8, 2001 It was also released in Japan in 2001 under the title with three additional bonus remixed tracks of the single "Lie, Lie, Lie.", and re-packaged and re-released in 2002 titled Myra + More including those same three remixes, and a bonus track "You’re the Dream" replacing "Wishing on the Same Star." "You’re the Dream" was the Anthem for The Special Olympics hosted by Walt Disney Records. The album was re-recorded in Spanish and titled Milagros which was released on October 16, 2001. The Spanish version of "Miracles Happen (When You Believe" which is titled "Siempre Hay Milagros" was included on the Spanish Version of The Princess Diaries. The Spanish Version of "Dancing in the Streets, (or "Bailando en la Ciudad") was released as a promotional single for the Disney Channel Original Movie Gotta Kick It Up!

Myra made an appearance in the film Max Keeble's Big Move as Chelsea (opposite Brooke Ann Smith) as Jenna, Max Keeble's (Alex D. Linz) love interest. It was around this time she was on tour with Aaron Carter opening for his 2000-2001 "Party Tour." Both of the then Teen Pop artists joined the line up of the 2001 Radio Disney Live! 2001 World Tour which included the artists Hoku, A*Teens, Baha Men, Jump5, Krystal (Super Girl, The Princess Diaries) and others. Myra can also be found on several compilation albums released by Disney.

Since then, Myra has worked with other artists, being featured on a single, "Back to You" by Chicano Rapper, Veze Skante which was accompanied by a music video and is a part of the compilation set "La Costa Nuestra." "La Costa Nuestra is available on iTunes. Myra has also independently released songs via-MySpace which can be found on YouTube and her Official Facebook account in video format. After an extended hiatus, Myra is currently working on her latest project(s) to date and is due for a tremendous return to the music world!

[[3LW]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2007 disestablishments in the United States, American girl groups, American R&B bands, Hip hop bands, Musical groups established in 1999, Musical groups disestablished in 2007, Musical groups from New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey, 1990s establishments in New Jersey

3LW (Three Little Women) were an American girl group. The group consist of Naturi Cora Maria Naughton, born May 20, 1984, Adrienne Eliza Bailon, born October 24, 1983, Kiely Alexis Williams, born July 9, 1986. The band formed in 1999 in Newark, New Jersey.

In August 2002, Naturi Naughton announced that she had been forced out of 3LW. Before the year's end, the ladies held various auditions in Atlanta, Los Angeles and New YorkOctober 2020 in search of a third member. Jessica Benson made the cut and joined 3LW in December. The group disbanded in 2007.

[[Nadia López]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Mexican singers, People from Oaxaca

Nadia Yvonne López Ayuso (born June 21, 1983 in Oaxaca), is a Mexican singer. She was a finalist of the first season of La Academia. Her passion for music began since she was a little girl, setting her to knock on doors by participating on contests, and festivals. 

[[Diana Reyes]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican singers, Latin singers, 1979 births, Living people, Baja California Sur

Diana Reyes (born November 18, 1979)  is a Mexican singer. She records duranguense music.  She was born in La Paz, Baja California Sur.  She has released three gold records since 2004: La Reina del Pasito Duranguense, Las No. 1 de la Reina, and Te Voy a Mostrar.

[[Ivy Queen]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Puerto Rican singers, Rap musicians

Ivy Queen (born Martha Ivelisse Pesante on March 4, 1972 in Añasco, Puerto Rico) is a composer and singer known as "The Queen of Reggaeton".

[[Fanny Lu]]

CATEGORIES: Colombian singers, 1973 births, Living people, Latin singers

Fanny Lucía Martínez de Leeu (born February 8, 1973), more commonly known as Fanny Lú, is a singer from Cali, Colombia. Fanny Lu completed her studies in Colegio Bolivar and then went on later to study at Universidad de los Andes. In 1994, she became a television presenter. Afterward, she went into the music industry.

Fanny's debut album "Lágrimas Cálidas" (Warm Tears) was released in 2006. The album was an instant hit in Latin America. It was very popular in Colombia, where it spent five weeks at #1. The lead single "No Te Pido Flores" (I'm Not Asking for Flowers) also spent 7 weeks at #1 on the Hot 100 Billboard Charts in Latin America, Colombia, Peru, Venezuela, and Mexico, and has received a numerous amount of airplay in Latin radio in the US. The song has also peaked at #16 on the Billboard Hot Latin Songs. The second single from her debut album is the song called "Y Si Te Digo"(And If I Tell You) and it peaked at #1 on the Billboard Hot Latin Songs.

[[Don Omar]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Puerto Rican singers, Latin singers, Reggaeton, Latin Grammy Award winners

Don Omar (born William Omar Landrón Rivera; February 10, 1978 in Puerto Rico ), is a reggaeton singer, composer, actor and producer, and a Puerto Rican Dominican businessman.. He is believed to be one of the best reggaeton artists in Puerto Rico and all of Latin America  and world by many music critics and fans alike. Omar is best known for his songs "Dile" and "Dale Don Dale" from his first album The Last Don and "Reggaeton Latino". His songs are mostly about life and love; some examples of these would be "La Recompenza" (The Reward) and "Aunque te Fuiste" (Even Though You Left Me). The net worth is of $ 22,5 million of dólares. and  sold over 70 million of sales.

[[Kat DeLuna]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, singers from New York City

Kat DeLuna (born Kat Emperatriz de Luna in 1987) is an American crossover artist. Signed to Epic Records, she sings songs in both English as Spanish. At the age of 12, she was invited by the 'Queen of Merengue', Milly Quezada, to sing with her on stage in front of a big crowd of over thousand people. In April 2004, she opened for J Records musician Cassidy as part of the all Latino girl group Coquette. 

[[Aventura]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 1990s establishments in New York (state), 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, 2011 disestablishments in the United States, American R&B bands, Latin music, Musical groups disestablished in 2011, Musical groups established in 1994, Musical groups from New York City

Aventura is a Bachata-R&B music group from New York City. They became popular worldwide with their hit single Obsesión in 2003/2004.

[[Jennifer Peña]]

CATEGORIES: singers from Texas, 1983 births, Living people, Latin singers, People from Corpus Christi, Texas, Tejano musicians

No sourcesJennifer Marcella Peña (born September 17, 1983 in San Antonio, Texas) is a Tejano/Latin pop singer. At age 12, she sang at the Houston Astrodome as a tribute to Selena. Signed by EMI, Peña's first album was nominated for a Tejano Music Award, and after her second album, she appeared on the soundtrack of Selena and was nominated for a Grammy Award. She has since released two more albums, most recently Seducción, both of which have been successful.

Pena's former boyfriend, also a singer, was involved in an argument with singer Obie Bermudez after a multiple artist concert in Texas during the summer of 2004; the argument was apparently started by jealousy from her ex-boyfriend towards Bermudez.

During September of that year, Pena openly admitted to a magazine that she and the famous Puerto Rican rapper Bermudez have been having a serious relationship. 

[[The Cheetah Girls (group)]]

CATEGORIES: American girl groups

The Cheetah Girls started out as a 2003 Summer Line-Up movie for Disney Channel. Within the two years of release, it gained one of the biggest fan franchises in Disney history as well as on the soundtrack charts having a Double Platinum soundtrack and high-rated DVD release. After all of this success three of the original members Adrienne Bailon, Kiely Williams and Sabrina Bryan decided to reunite and record and a song for the Disneymania 3 CD. Raven-Symoné however declined saying that "I want to work on my solo career right now. I loved being a Cheetah Girl but I don't want to be known as 'Galleria from The Cheetah Girls’, and as 'Raven Baxter' forever. Right now I just want to be Raven-Symoné." 

Adrienne Bailon (who at the time had a reoccurring role on That's So Raven) claimed to "understand" but still said she was "disappointed" in Raven for not continuing what she started. However, the 3 remaining Cheetahs recorded I Won't Say (I'm In Love) for Disneymania 3. They also kept their names from The Cheetah Girls movie. Kiely was known as "Aqua", Adrienne was known as "Chanel" and Sabrina was known as "Dorinda". After seeing how much of a response I Won't Say (I'm In Love) received, Disney quickly approached the Cheetahs for a recording contract. Raven was again offered her spot back in the group and again declined. This upset Adrienne so much that she quit as her role of Alana on That's So Raven. The newly reformed Cheetah Girls signed the contract for one album with Walt Disney Records. The stage names Dorinda, Chanel and Aqua were also dropped at this time. Right before the release of their debut album they released a single for the Chicken Little soundtrack called Shake a Tail Feather, a re-make of an old Ray Charles song. Their debut album was a Christmas album titled Cheetah-licious Christmas. They also made a music video for their debut single also titled Cheetah-Licious Christmas. They performed this single at the Walt-Disney Christmas Day Parade and were featured in The Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. After the success of their Christmas album they were reported as signing to Hollywood Records (Owned by Disney but for more successful artists such as Aly & AJ and former Cheetah Raven-Symoné). 

At this time a Cheetah Girls television series was in the works as well. It did however convince former cheetah Raven-Symoné to return for television and film purposes only. The show filmed a total of 4 episodes when it was put on hiatus reason being That's So Raven being renewed for its fourth and final season. The Cheetahs (Including Raven) did however quickly meet up again for a sequel called The Cheetah Girls 2 and recorded a soundtrack for the movie also. It is set to debut on the Disney Channel on August 25, 2006. Raven however left the Cheetah Girls after filming wrapped claiming "Lots of work" that had to be completed. The Cheetah Girls are set to go on a two month tour (it is unknown if Raven will join them) in mid-September of 2006 to promote The Cheetah Girls 2: When in Spain album. After that the Cheetahs are headed back to the recording studio to record their sophomore album. It is still not known if The Cheetah Girls television series will ever be picked up because of the falling out between Raven and Adrienne and Raven's separation from the group. If it is picked up, producers have stated that they will be writing in a major role for the newest 3LW member Jessica Benson. 

The sequel The Cheetah Girls 3 is currently under script development and has been rumored to be a theatrical release. If production continues on The Cheetah Girls 3 then all of the original cheetahs are under contract to return. It has also been rumored that if The Cheetah Girls 3 does well then production will continue on The Cheetah Girls television Series and that Jessica Benson may have a role written into this movie as well as the TV series.

[[Tito Nieves]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Puerto Rican singers

Humberto "Tito" Nieves (June 4, 1958, Río Piedras, Puerto Rico)' became one of the leading Salsa singers of the 1980's and the early 90s. Raised in the U.S., Nieves began his career while participating in Cimarron, a New York-based orchestra. In 1977, he teamed up with the legendary singer Hector Lavoe and his Orchestra and joined Conjunto Clasico later. Nieves decided to start his solo career in 1986, setting himself apart by singing Salsa in English.

[[Manny Manuel]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Puerto Rican singers, American choreographers

Cruz Manuel Hernández Santiago (born December 1, 1972), known by his stage name of Manny Manuel, is a Puerto Rican singer. He sings merengue, boleros, and tropical music. He first became well known as a member of the group Los Sabrosos del Merengue. He started a solo career in 1994. Manuel was born on the mountain town of Orocovis, Puerto Rico. He studied elementary and high school in the José Rojas Cortés School at his hometown. Since a young age, he started performing in talent shows and other musical activities. He later joined the group Tempo Merenguero. He later became a singer and choreographer for the merengue duo of Mayra y Celinés.

After several years, Manuel joined the group Los Sabrosos del Merengue. He joined them at the same time they had their hit song "Fiera Callada". After the success of the song, the group released their first album, Sin Fronteras. Manuel samg a large part of the lyrics on this album. The album included a cover version of Rocío Durcal's song "Te Amo". The group made a second album titled Haciendo Historia. It had hits like "Colegiala" and "Frente a Frente".

After making these two albums with Los Sabrosos, Manuel chose to have a solo career. In June of 1994, Manuel left the group. In October 1 of the same year, he started as a solo performer. Several months later, he released his first solo album. It was titled Rey de Corazones. The album was certified platinum after a few weeks. With the success of the album, on November, 1995, Manuel performed at the Luis A. Ferré Performing Arts Center. He sold out six shows.

In 1996, he followed with his second album titled Auténtico. On May of the same year, he performed at the Guaynabo Performing Arts Center in a special Mother's Day concert. Later, in November, he had a very large concert at the Roberto Clemente Coliseum.

[[Girl in a Coma]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, American punk bands, Musicians from San Antonio, Texas, Musical groups from Texas

Girl In a Coma is a rock band from San Antonio, Texas on Joan Jett's Blackheart Record's label.  The band is made up of sisters Nina(vocals/guitar) and Phanie Diaz (drums) and Jenn Alva (bass). The group recorded a rock version of the song "Si Una Vez" by Selena.

[[Angel y Khriz]]

CATEGORIES: Reggaeton, American musical groups, Puerto Rican entertainers, Musical groups established in 2002, 2002 establishments in the United States, Establishments in Puerto Rico

Khriz y Angel is a Puerto Rican reggaeton group. The band members are Ángel Rivera Guzmán and Chrístian Colón. They work a lot with Luny Tunes another Puerto Rican reggaeton group. They were introduced in 2002 in the CD MVP, by Hector 'El Bambino' with the song "Casando Voy".

Los MVP’s is Khriz Y Angel’s own CD where they present the listener to soulful hits like "Ven Bailalo" and "Te Quiero Ver Hoy", as well as "De Caseria" featuring Divino and the up beat "Ram Pa Pan Pan".   

In the year 2005, they have come up with the songs "Fua", "De Lao A Lao" (bachata and merengue reggaeton versions), and "Mazacotte". They have been compared to artists like Daddy Yankee, Don Omar, and Wisin y Yandel in terms of fame.

[[Karen Rodriguez]]

CATEGORIES: singers from New York City, 1989 births, Living people

Karen Rodriguez (born 1989) is an American singer from New York City, New York.  Her father is Dominican and her mother, Elvira Rodriguez, is Peruvian. She went to LaGuardia Arts School in New York   She played the starring role as Maria in "West Side Story" as a freshman. In 2008, she appeared in the fifth season of a Puerto Rican talent show Objetivo Fama and finished in seventh place.

She considers Selena to be her biggest idol, and is a fan of Juan Gabriel and Juan Luis Guerra.

[[Prince Royce]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1989 births, singers from New York City, Latin singers

Geoffrey Royce Rojas (born May 11, 1989 on the Bronx) known by his stage name Prince Royce is a Dominican-American bachata singer.  He started his career when he signed on with Top Stop Music label. His eponymous debut album, Prince Royce, was recorded in 2009 and released in 2010. The album was produced by Sergio George the manager of Top Stop Music.  The album became a success peaking at #1 on the Billboard Tropical Albums chart.  The lead single from the album, Stand by Me is a cover of a song which was originally composed and performed by Ben E. King. The single reached #1 on the Latin Tropical Airplay chart and #8 on the Top Latin Songs chart.  It was announced on September 8, 2010, that his album would become a nominee for a Latin Grammy Award for "Best Contemporary Tropical Album". 

[[Frankie J]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, American singer-songwriters, Latin singers, Living people

Frankie J (born on February 16 1980 in Baja, California, USA) is an American singer-songwriter. Frankie J had first appeared on A.B. Quintanilla III's band "Kumbia Kings". He later left the band to become a solo artist. His debut album What's a Man to Do was released on May 27, 2003. In 2005, Frankie J released his third studio album The One and debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 chart. It had sold 130,000 copies in one week. It was then certified platinum by the RIAA for shipments of 1 million copies.

[[Q'orianka Kilcher]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, American movie actors, Actors from Hawaii

Q'Orianka Kilcher (born February 11, 1990 in Schweigmait, Germany) German-born American actress. She was raised in Hawaii. Q'Orianka's father is from Peru and he belongs to the Quechua/Huachipaeri, while her mother is of Swiss descent by way of Alaska. Her movie credits include the live action version of How the Grinch Stole Christmas, and the starring role of Pocahontas in The New World.

She is a cousin of pop singer Jewel.     

On June 1, 2010, Kilcher and her mother were arrested. Kilcher chained herself to the gates in front of the White House in Washington, D.C. Her mother poured black paint on her to signify oil. Kilcher was against President Barack Obama's meeting with Peruvian President Alan García. She said Garcia sold land in the Amazon rainforest to corporations while suppressing indigenous protests. She and her mother were charged with disorderly conduct. The charges were dropped on June 6, 2011 after they completed community service.

[[Sara Tavares]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Portuguese singers, Cape Verdean people

Sara Tavares (born 1978) is a Portuguese-Cape Verdian singer. After winning the two music festivals in Portugal, in 1994, Sara Tavares recorded her first album Sara Tavares & Shout. It was released in 1996. This album has gospel, soul, funk and pop influences. After the album was released, Sara performed all over the Portugal, Cape Verde and Paris. She also performed on television programs and at social events. By the end of 1998, Sara Tavares started working on her new album. She stopped performing and went through a long period of introspection trying to find her real influences.

Mi Ma Bo was  Sara Tavares' second album. The name translated from the Criolo (language from Cape Verde) means "Me and You".  Mi Ma Bo was produced by Lokua Kanza, a musician from Kongo.  The album is sung in three different languages (Portuguese, Criolo and English).  In Portugal, Mi Ma Bo is a gold record. In France, Monaco and Andorra, "Querer Sonhar" - one of Sara Tavares' compositions from Mi Ma Bo, is included in an African music compilation, together with artists like Miriam Makeba, Lokua Kanza, Césaria Evora, Youssou N'Dour, Mory Kante. It was released by BMG France.

Her new album Balancé was due in February 2006. In this record produced by Sara herself, she wrote and composed all the songs and played many of the instruments.

[[Conservative Judaism]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish denominations

In Conservative Judaism, Jewish values can be divided into ethical and ritual laws - the ethical laws do not change, while the ritual laws are used in different customs. Because oftentimes Jews have to be a part of the society they live in, some of the ritual laws must be adapted to it. Such adaptations also allow modern lifestyles.

Another belief in conservative Judaism is that the texts that are the basis of Judaism should not be read literally, and that they can be analyzed and criticized like any other text. In Conservative Judaism, women are seen as equal to men and are allowed to sit with the men when attending synagogue, whereas in Orthodox Judaism for example, women are expected to sit in a different area. Women are also allowed to not wear head coverings when attending synagogue.

[[Stringybark Creek]]

CATEGORIES: Ned Kelly

Stringybark Creek is a small creek in the Wombat Ranges, Victoria, Australia. It is famous for the place where three policemen were murdered on 26 October 1878. The policemen, Sergeant Michael Kennedy, Constable Thomas Lonigan, and Constable Michael Scanlan were searching the forest for the Kelly brothers, Ned and Dan Kelly. They were wanted for the attempted murder of another policeman, Constable Fitzpatrick.

The creek is in the Toombullup State Forest, 50km from Benalla and 36km from Mansfield. The area has been developed for visitors and includes picnic area, camping, toilets and walking tracks. A memorial stone was put in place in 2001. It is near the remains of the hut. A tree near the site of two of the murders (Lonigan and Scanlan), the Police/ Kelly Tree, was scarped by a farmer in the 1930s. He carved the names of the three murdered police into it as a memorial. It has had a small copy of Ned Kelly's helmet attached to it.  This caused great upset to the families of the murdered policemen. The other murder site (Kennedy's) is approximately 400 - 500 metres North West. It is across the Stringybark Creek Road. 

[[First Minister]]

CATEGORIES: Prime ministers, Government occupations

A First Minister is the leader of a government. In the United Kingdom, First Minister was once used to mean the same as Prime Minister. Winston Churchill's famous quote: "I did not become His Majesty's First Minister so that I might oversee the liquidation of the British Empire!"

First Minister is now used to describe the leaders of the devolved governments of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. See:

[[North Borneo at the Olympics]]

CATEGORIES: Former nations at the Olympics, Sport in Malaysia, 1956 Summer Olympics, History of Malaysia

North Borneo at the Olympics is a history which includes only one summer olympic game in one country and two athletes.

The British colony of North Borneo competed in the 1956 Summer Olympics at Melbourne in Australia.

This was the only Olympic appearance for the colony.  North Borneo sent two athletes who took part in the triple jump. They failed to win a medal.

In later years, athletes from North Borneo competed as part of the team from Malaysia.

[[Forbes list of billionaires]]

CATEGORIES: Billionaires, Lists of people

Forbes list of billionaires is based on an yearly measurement of wealth and assets which is published by Forbes magazine. The latest list was released in March 2014.

[[Gestalt psychology]]

CATEGORIES: Branches of psychology, Illusions

Gestalt psychology  is a theory of mind and brain formed in Berlin early in the 20th century. 

The idea is that the brain sees things as a whole. The gestalt effect is most clear with sight. We recognise figures and whole forms, not just a collection of lines and curves. In psychology, gestaltism is often opposed to structuralism. The phrase "The whole is greater than the sum of the parts" is often used when explaining Gestalt theory. A better wording is : "The whole is different from the parts".

Early 20th century theorists, such as Kurt Koffka, Max Wertheimer, and Wolfgang Köhler (students of Carl Stumpf) saw vision of objects as all elements taken together in a global construct. This 'gestalt' or 'whole form' approach sought to understand perception – seemingly innate mental laws which determined the way in which objects are perceived.

It is based on the here and now, and in the way you view things. It can be broken up into two: figure or ground, at first glance do you see the figure in front of you or the background?

These laws took several forms. An example is the way we tend to see similar objects, or close together objects, as meaningfully connected. Gestalt has been criticized for being merely descriptive, but it has formed the basis of much further research into the perception of patterns and objects, and of research into behavior, thinking, problem solving and psychopathology.

Gestalt psychology was a forerunner to modern cognitive psychology. It is distinct from gestalt psychotherapy.

[[Max Wertheimer]]

CATEGORIES: 1880 births, 1943 deaths, American psychologists, Czech Jews, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish German academics, Jewish German scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Prague, Refugees from Nazism, Psychologists

Max Wertheimer (Prague, 15 April 1880 – New Rochelle, New York, 12 October 1943) was a psychologist who was one of the three founders of Gestalt psychology, with Kurt Koffka and Wolfgang Köhler.

From 1929 to 1933, Wertheimer was a professor at the University of Frankfurt. When Adolf Hitler became Chancellor of the Third Reich in 1933, it became apparent to Wertheimer that he must leave Germany. In the end, he accepted an offer to teach at The New School in New York.

In New York he continued to investigate problem-solving, or what he preferred to call “productive thinking". The relationship between the book and his earlier work was this: all the problems in the book except one could be solved by considering geometric diagrams. In other words, they were partly visual in essence, and could be represented and partly solved visually. That thread ran through much of the gestalt work.

Wertheimer completed the book (his only book) in late September 1943, and died just three weeks later of a heart attack. Wertheimer was buried in Beechwood Cemetery in New Rochelle, New York.

[[Optical illusion]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Illusions

An optical illusion (also called a visual illusion) is one which shows images that differ from normal reality. 

The information gathered by the eye is processed in the brain to give a perception. That is normal, but in these cases the appearance does not tally with a physical measurement of the stimulus source. 

There are three main types of visual illusion: 

The general explanation for most illusions is the way the brain works on sense data to produce a meaningful perception. A great 19th century psychologist Hermann von Helmholtz described perception as "unconscious inferences from sensory data and past experience". Richard Gregory discussed how the brain makes an hypothesis about what's out there, and sometimes the hypothesis does not quite work out. His model of perception is an interaction between data from sense organs and previous knowledge and experience.

Researcher Mark Changizi of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in New York thinks optical illusions are due to a 'neural lag'. When light hits the retina, about one-tenth of a second goes by before the brain translates the signal into a visual perception of the world. Scientists have known of the lag, and have discussed how humans compensate for it. Some suggest that our motor system somehow modifies our movements to offset the delay.

Changizi asserts that the human visual system has evolved to compensate for neural delays by generating images of what will occur one-tenth of a second into the future. This foresight enables humans to react to events in the present, enabling humans to perform reflexive acts like catching a fly ball and to maneuver smoothly through a crowd. Illusions occur when our brains attempt to perceive the future, and those perceptions do not match reality. 

Essentially, the ideas of Helmholz, Gregory and Changizi are similar. We do not mechanically turn sense data into a picture of the world, as some had thought. What we do is use our brains to work out what it is we are looking at. This involves the use of memory and logic, though at a fast rate. The process is very good, but not foolproof. When it fails we get an illusion.

[[Cassette single]]

CATEGORIES: Music technology

A cassette single is a recording of a single song sold on a  compact audio cassette.  Record companies introduced this sales format in the 1980s. At that time, vinyl record album sales were declining in favor of cassette recordings; the cassette single was introduced to replace the vinyl 45 record in a similar way.

The sales of cassette singles did not exceed vinyl single sales to the same extent as cassette albums had.  As compact disc players became more common, cassette singles were for the most part replaced by CD singles.

[[Guitar solo]]

CATEGORIES: Guitars

A guitar solo is a portion of a musical performance when a guitar is used without other instruments.

In addition to their roles of rhythmic and harmonic accompaniment, guitars are well-suited to performing solo lines. This can take the form of a prominent section where the guitar is heard over other instruments, or unaccompanied, the guitarist providing all the necessary melody and harmony themselves. Many times, a guitar solo is a virtuosic performance in the rock music idiom with a heavily-overdriven electric guitar. However, solo instrumentation for the guitar can be found in a wide variety of musical styles and eras.

Many famous guitarists are known for their solo work. Approaches to solo creation vary from the jagged/atonal approach of Andy Gill from Gang of Four and Andy Partridge from XTC, the studio-produced soundscapes of Jimi Hendrix or Bill Nelson, or the composed approach of Frank Zappa.

The use of the guitar solo in popular music was especially notable during the 1980s, where a flashy and attention-grabbing instrumental was virtually obligatory for a guitar-based band. In later years, guitar solos became viewed as something of an "80s cliché", and their usage declined. Guitar solos in pop music have subsequently become much rarer, and more subdued and understated when used.

[[Music of Colombia]]

CATEGORIES: Music by nationality, Colombian culture

The music of Colombia is an expression of the Colombian culture and has many music types. Modern Colombian culture is a mixture of African, native and European (especially Spanish) music, as well as more modern American and Caribbean musical forms, such as Trinidadian, Cuban and Jamaican.

In the late 1950s, Mexican rock artists like Enrique Guzmán and Cesar Costa became very popular in Colombia.  Soon, native rock bands like Los Speakers earned popularity too.  Starting in 1967, native bands like Genesis combined native music types (like cumbia) with rock.

Cumbia is a mixture of Spanish and African music (which slaves brought to Colombia).  In the 19th century, Colombia got rid of slavery. Since that time, Africans, Indians and other ethnic groups mixed more fully in Colombian music.  Styles like bambuco, vallenato and porro was very important.  When the waltz became popular in the 19th century, Colombian musicians invented a version called pasillo.

[[The Band Perry]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 2005, Country bands, Musical groups from Alabama, Musical groups from Mississippi, Musical groups from Tennessee, 2005 establishments in the United States

The Band Perry is an American musical group. The members are Kimberly, Reed and Neil Perry (the first was born in 1981, the second in 1988 and the latter was born in 1990). Their self titled first record was released on October 12, 2010.

[[Criminal (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Britney Spears songs

"Criminal" is the fourth single released under Britney Spears' seventh studio album Femme Fatale. This song was released on September 30, 2011 and has gotten positive critical acclaim.

[[Sound check]]

CATEGORIES: Concerts, Music

A soundcheck, simplified as sound check is an activity that takes place a couple of hours before a concert. The performer(s) and the sound crew run through a short song to make sure that the sound in the venue is clear and at the right volume and tonal frequencies. Soundchecks are especially important for popular and other musical genres that use heavily-amplified PA systems; having correct sound is very important to the success of such events.  A soundcheck remains part art and not all science, however, because the acoustics of a venue often change somewhat once it is filled with an audience.

Artists who change their set list during the course of a concert tour often use soundchecks as a rehearsal opportunity to try out new material or revive old material, before possibly introducing such material into the concert properly. 

[[Ricky Martin (1991 album)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 albums, Spanish-language albums, Debut albums, Latin music albums, Latin pop albums, Ricky Martin

Ricky Martin is the eponymous debut solo studio album recorded by Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin, It was released  by Sony Discos and Sony Music Mexico November 26, 1991 (see 1991 in music).

[[Latin Pop Albums]]

CATEGORIES: Latin music, Selena, Ricky Martin, Christina Aguilera, Shakira

Latin Pop Albums is a record chart that is published weekly on Billboard magazine. The chart ranks Latin pop albums by the number of recorded sales an album made that week.

[[Peter Carey (novelist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Writers from Victoria (Australia), Booker Prize winners

Peter Carey (born 1943) is an Australian novelist who has won many awards including two Booker Prizes. He first won the Booker Prize in 1988 for his book, Oscar and Lucinda. He won again in 2001 for his book The True History of the Kelly Gang. Only one other author has won this award twice.

Oscar and Lucinda was made into a movie starring Ralph Fiennes. The True History of the Kelly Gang is the story of Australian bushranger, Ned Kelly, written in the style of Ned's famous Jerilderie Letter.

[[Emperor Kanmu]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan, 737 births, 806 deaths

Emperor Kanmu, also written as Kammu, was the 50th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  His reign started in 781 and ended in 806.

Kanmu was the first monarch of the Heian period of the history of Japan.

[[National Cleavage Day]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality, South Africa, Breasts

National Cleavage Day, also known as NCD, is a annual celebration that is held in South Africa. It is held in March or April each year. Many countries celebrating on 19th of May (Proverbs 5:19) The event is sponsored by the brassière marketer wonderbra. National Cleavage Day was started in 2002 and held at the beginning of April every year. The NCD was started in April 2002 in South Africa.

Along with the Wonderbra, Cosmopolitan and 5fm, a SABC radio station have sponsored this event. According to Samantha Paterson, the manager for Wonderbra, the National Cleavage Day had become a great start for women's independence and power in all forms of life, from their careers to their relationships and to their own destiny. Anita Meiring, public relations consultant for Wonderbra, explained The event was created to help build women empowerment about their breast being very unique and that they should be very proud of it. She also stated that "It gives men a legitimate (real) reason to stare (look) at boobs (women's breast)."

National Cleavage Day is celebrated in offices, restaurants and bars throughout the nation.

This event was given negative feedback from Dr. Siqwana-Ndulo. She had said that "This is a pure marketing tool using people's bodies." She then stated that, "The commission is against any person or advertising company which uses people's bodies for marketing purposes be it advertising a car or anything of that sort."

[[Chauchilla Cemetery]]

CATEGORIES: Peru, Cemeteries

Chauchilla Cemetery is a cemetery that has prehistoric remains of prehispanics. Their bodies, which are mummified, contain artifacts. The cemetery is 30 south of the city of Nazca in Peru.

[[Heian period]]

CATEGORIES: Periods in Japanese history

The Heian period is a time in the Japanese history from 794 to 1185. This grouping of years is named after city of Heian-kyō, which is the early name of present day Kyoto.

[[Garnishment]]

CATEGORIES: Law

A garnishment is the means for collecting monetary judgments against a defendant by ordering third parties to pay money directly toward the plaintiff. Wage garnishments are a process of deducting money off employees' monetary compensation (including their salary); these types of garnishments continue until entire debts are paid and can be taken for any debt, however usual examples are:

Wage garnishments can adversely affect credit reputation or one's ability to open bank accounts. The Consumer Credit Protection Act stipulates the amount of income that can be garnished from an individual's wage. Individuals who earn disposable income under $217.50 per week do not receive any wage garnishment. Individuals who receive a disposable income of between $217.50 and $290 per week can have any amount above $217.50 garnished. For weekly disposable earnings above $290, a maximum of 25% can be garnished.

[[Gigantoraptor]]

CATEGORIES: Oviraptorosauria

Gigantoraptor is a genus of giant oviraptorosaur theropod dinosaur that lived 70 million years ago in the later Cretaceous. It was discovered in 2005 in Inner Mongolia.

[[University of Tübingen]]

CATEGORIES: 1477 establishments, Baden-Württemberg, Colleges and universities in Germany, Establishments in Germany, 1470s establishments in Europe

Eberhard Karls University, Tübingen (Eberhard Karls Universität Tübingen) is a public university in the city of Tübingen, Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

[[Pylorus]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the digestive system

Pylorus is a part of digestive system that separates stomach and duodenum. The pylorus controls the opening between the stomach and the duodenum. It stops large pieces of food from leaving the stomach. It also stops digested food from returning to the stomach from the duodenum. It is made of a muscle which stops food when contracted. When the pylorus is relaxed, it allows a small amount of food to pass as its passage is narrow.

[[Huxley family]]

CATEGORIES: Huxley family

The Huxley family is an English family. Members of the family had top careers in science, medicine, art, and literature. Some family members were also high level public servants in the United Kingdom. 

Thomas Henry Huxley (THH) was the oldest male in the family. He was a zoologist and comparative anatomist. He was one of Charles Darwin's main supporters.

Thomas had several grandsons including Aldous, Julian, and Andrew. Aldous Huxley wrote the books Brave New World and Doors of Perception. Julian Huxley studied evolution, wrote Evolution: the New Synthesis, and was the first director of UNESCO. Andrew Huxley was a Nobel prize winning physiologist and was appointed to the Order of Merit. Thomas and Andrew both served as President of the Royal Society, a century apart.

Many of their relatives succeeded in other walks of life.

[[Starfleet]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek, San Francisco in fiction

In the fictional world of the Star Trek television series, books, and video games, Starfleet is the group that manages space exploration.  From the second half of the 22nd Century through at least the 25th Century, Starfleet is a part of the United Federation of Planets, a political group of planets with intelligent life, including Earth and Vulcan.  Members of Starfleet come from many different planets and are from many different species.  Though the mission of Starfleet is peaceful exploration of space, the group is also responsible for defense of Federation planets.

[[Betty Garrett]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American dancers, Actors from Missouri, Singers from Missouri, People from St. Joseph, Missouri, Deaths from aortic aneurysm, 1919 births, 2011 deaths

Betty Garrett (May 23, 1919 - February 12, 2011) was an American singer, dancer, and actor of movies, theatre, and television. She was best known for her work in movie musicals in the 1940s and 1950s. Her acting career was affected when her husband, Larry Parks, was called to the House Un-American Activities Committee. There he admitted having been in the Communist Party, and he gave names of other entertainment people who were in the Party.

Garrett has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. She died of an aortic aneurysm.

[[Simon van der Meer]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2011 deaths, Dutch Nobel Prize winners, Dutch physicists, People from The Hague

This is a Dutch name. The family name is van der Meer, not Meer.

Simon van der Meer (24 November 1925 – 4 March 2011) was a Dutch particle accelerator physicist. He won the Nobel prize in physics. Another physicist, Carlo Rubbia, also won this prize. He won the prize because of his work for the CERN project. This led to the discovery of W and Z particles, which are the two most important things in matter.

[[Gerry Rafferty]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from liver failure, Disease-related deaths in England, Scottish rock singers, Scottish singer-songwriters

Gerry Rafferty (16 April 1947 – 4 January 2011) was a Scottish singer-songwriter. His 1978 album, City to City, reached number one on the music charts in the USA. "Baker Street", a song from the album reached the Top 10 in both the USA and Britain. It featured a distinctive saxophone solo played by Raphael Ravenscroft.

Rafferty was born in Paisley, Scotland and began playing in bands as a teenager. "Stuck in the Middle" was written in the early 1970's with his band "Stealers Wheel". It was a parody of Bob Dylan's style. It became a hit again after being used in the movie Reservoir Dogs directed by Quentin Tarantino in 1992. Rafferty also played in a folk group, the Humblebums, with Scottish comedian Billy Connolly.

He sold more than 10 million albums but did not enjoy working in the music industry which he said he "loathed and detested." He died in Stroud, Gloucestershire, England, from liver failure caused by his alcoholism.

[[Saeed Shehabi]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Bahraini people, Journalists, Political activists

Saeed Shehabi is a Bahraini thinker, political activist, commentator and journalist. He is a regular columnist in the daily Arabic Al-Quds newspaper. He gives regular interviews to the BBC's Middle East Service and AlJazeera. He is also the Director of Abrar House, an Islamic community center in Central London that promotes interfaith work. He is also the leader of the pro-democractic Bahrain Freedom Movement, that is a banned Bahraini opposition group. He was also a founding member of Al-Wefaq National Party. He was previously the editor of Alalam magazine and now hosts a weekly television programme on Alalam TV. He has been living in exile in London since 1979 and returned to Bahrain on two occasions in 2002. He has a PhD in engineering from City University. Saeed Shehabi is married and has seven children.

On August 2010, Bahrain TV  declared that Saeed Shehabi is accused of being the second leading member of a terrorist network. He is currently being tried in absentia along with Hassan Mushaimi. The Bahraini government claimed that a red notice was issued by interpol for his arrest, however this has not been verified. In 1996 he was similarly sentenced to 15 years in prison in absentia.

In the summer of 2009, Saeed Shehabi's home was attacked by arsonists.

[[Steve Prestwich]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, People from Liverpool, English drummers, Australian singers, People from Adelaide, Musicians from South Australia, English rock musicians, Australian drummers, Australian rock musicians

Steven William Prestwich (5 March 1954 — 16 January 2011) was an English born musician who became famous as the drummer in two Australian rock bands, the Little River Band and Cold Chisel Born in Liverpool, his family moved to Adelaide, Australia, in 1971. He formed a band called "Orange" with Jimmy Barnes. This band then became Cold Chisel. Prestwich wrote, and helped write several of the bands biggest hits including "Forever Now", "When The War Is Over", "Nothin’ But You", "Monica", "Best Kept Lies", and "Flame Trees".

When Cold Chisel broke up in 1983, Prestwich joined the Little River Band. He recorded two albums with them. They recorded his song "When The War Is Over" with John Farnham. He played with Cold Chisel again when they reformed for two tours in 1998 and 2003. They had planned to record a new album in 2011. Prestwich recorded two solo albums, Since You've Been Gone in 2000 and Every Highway in 2009.

Prestwich died after surgery to treat a brain tumor in 2011.

[[Culture hero]]

CATEGORIES: Mythology

A culture hero is a person, usually a mythical or legendary person, who is believed to be the first one to do something. In Greek mythology, for example, Prometheus who stole fire from the gods and made it possible for humans to use it for cooking and other purposes. In Chinese mythology, one culture hero is Hou Ji, a person with a human mother and a divine father, who discovered how to grow many crops and taught other humans about farming.

[[Emperor Heizei]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan, 773 births, 824 deaths

Emperor Heizei, also known as Heijō-tennō. was the 51st emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Heizei's reign started in 806 and ended in 809.

[[IPhone 4S]]

CATEGORIES: Messaging, IPhone, Mobile phones released in 2011

The iPhone 4S is the fifth iPhone that was created by Apple. It is very thin, and has a touchscreen.

It was first available for pre-order on October 7, and it went on sale on October 14 in the United States, Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Japan. It was made available in more countries over the next few months.

The iPhone 4S had the same design as the iPhone 4, but has several new features such as an upgrade to the Apple A5 processor, and an 8 MP camera with 1080p video recording. It shipped with iOS 5, which is the fifth major version of Apple's mobile operating system, iOS. It had new features such as iCloud, iMessage, Notification Center, Reminders, and integration with Twitter. It also had a voice activation system named Siri that was included in later generations of mobile Apple products.

[[Sakyo Komatsu]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2011 deaths, Futurists, Japanese novelists, Science fiction writers, People from Osaka

Sakyō Komatsu was a Japanese novelist and science fiction writer.  He is best known for a 1973 book, Japan Sinks (Nihon Chinbotsu).  

[[Norio Ohga]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2011 deaths, Japanese businesspeople, Sony, People from Shizuoka Prefecture

Norio Ohga, also spelled Oga and Ogha, was a Japanese businessman and former president and chairman of Sony Corporation.

[[Farley Granger]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from Santa Clara County, California, American autobiographers, LGBT people from California, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, LGBT actors, Deaths from natural causes, People from San Jose, California

Farley Granger (July 1, 1925 - March 27, 2011) was an American movie, theatre, and television actor. Two of the movies he was in were directed by Alfred Hitchcock: Rope and Strangers on a Train.

Granger was bisexual, and had relationships with both women and men. Some of the people he was involved with were Shelley Winters, Ava Gardner, Leonard Bernstein, and screenwriter Arthur Laurents. His longtime romantic partner was television producer Robert Calhoun.

Granger wrote an autobiography called Include Me Out: My Life From Goldwyn to Broadway. He died of natural causes.

[[Burhanuddin Rabbani]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Afghanistan, Assassinated people, 1940 births, 2011 deaths

Burhanuddin Rabbani (1940 — 20 September 2011) was the President of Afghanistan from 1992 to 1996. He had been a Mujahideen leader who fought against the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. He was removed as President when the Taliban took over in 1996. He then became the leader of the Northern Alliance which took over in Kabul when the Taliban were removed. He became the head of Afghanistan's High Peace Council which was trying to find a way to end the fighting in Afghanistan. He was killed in a suicide attack on his home. A man who claimed to be a Taliban leader met with Rabbini, and then exploded a bomb, which he had hidden in his turban.

[[Norman Corwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 2011 deaths, Writers from Boston, Massachusetts, American journalists

Norman Lewis Corwin (May 3, 1910 – October 18, 2011) was an American writer, producer, and radio host. Born on May 3, 1910, in Boston, Massachusetts, Corwin worked as a writer for several newspapers in the late 1920s and early 1930s. In 1937, Corwin began working as a radio host. During World War II he worked as a news reporter for CBS. Corwin died on October 18, 2011, of natural causes.

[[Bert Jansch]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2011 deaths, British folk musicians, British guitarists, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from lung cancer, Entertainers from Edinburgh, Musicians from Glasgow, Scottish musicians, Scottish singer-songwriters

Herbert "Bert" Jansch (3 November 1943—5 October 2011) was a Scottish singer-songwriter regarded as one of Britain's great folk guitarists. He was born in Glasgow, but his parents were German. After his father left the family they moved to Edinburgh. Jansch made his own guitar by the age of 12. After leaving school he began playing guitar, mainly blues, at various music clubs in Scotland and England.

His first album, Bert Jansch, was made in 1965 and quickly became successful. The song "Needle of Death" about drug addiction, created a lot of interest as this was a subject that was not talked about very much at that time. His second album, It Don't Bother Me, featured his friend John Renbourn, another great guitar player. The two players became very popular as a duo, and made the very successful album, Jack Orion, in 1966. This album had some traditional folk songs, including a version of "Blackwaterside", played in a jazz style. The rock band Led Zepplin later recorded his arrangement of the song.

Jansch and Renbourn made another duo recording in 1966 called Bert and John. They started playing with other musicians they met in London, and finally formed a band, Pentangle, with bass player Danny Thompson, drummer Terry Cox, and vocalist Jacqui McShee. Pentangle was instantly successful. Jansch did not enjoy fame, and left the band in 1973. He continued to play and make albums.

Jansch often played on other people's recordings, including the Babyshambles album Shotter's Nation (2007). In 2010, despite being ill with lung cancer, he went on tour in the USA with American musician, Neil Young. Jansch died of lung cancer in Hampstead, London.

[[Desmond Mason]]

CATEGORIES: Milwaukee Brewers players, Living people, 1977 births, People from Waxahachie, Texas, Seattle SuperSonics players, New Orleans Hornets players, Sacramento Kings players, Oklahoma City Thunder players, Sportspeople from Texas

Desmond Mason is a retired basketball player. He was born on October 11, 1977 in Waxahachie, Texas. He went to Oklahoma State University. In 2000 and 2001 he was named All Rookie award in second place.

[[Ernesto Sabato]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2011 deaths, Argentine painters, Argentine scientists, Argentine writers, Deaths from bronchitis, Disease-related deaths in Argentina, People from Buenos Aires Province, Physicists

Ernesto Sabato (June 24, 1911– April 30, 2011) was an Argentine writer, painter and physicist. He won some of the most important prizes for writing in Spanish and was influential in the literary world of Latin America. He was also famous for investigating war crimes in Argentina. Sabato was a member of the National Commission on the Disappearance of Persons. This tried to find out what had happened to the 30,000 people who went missing during time of military rule from 1976 to 1983.

He was born in Rojas, Buenos Aires Province on 24 June 1911. He was the tenth of eleven sons from an average family. His parents were Francesco Sabato and Giovanna Maria Ferrari, a pair of Italian inmigrants from Calabria. He began to study at the National University of La Plata in 1929, where he studied physics and mathematics. He became a member of a communist youth group and went to the International Lenin School in Moscow to study for two years. He was very concerned about the rise of Stalinism, and went back to Argentina as soon as he could. He went back to the university and completed his PhD in physics. In 1939 he went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, but after going back to Argentina in 1940, he decided that he wanted to be a writer.

His first magazine article was published in 1941, and for the next year he wrote book reviews and translated books into Spanish. His first book, a collection of essays on the morality of science and technology, was published in 1945. His first novel, a thriller, was published in 1948, and has been translated into ten languages. His third novel, Abaddón el exterminador (The Angel of Darkness), was named in France as the best foreign book of 1976.

Sabato died in Santos Lugares, on 30 April, 2011, from bronchitis.

[[Dick King-Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2011 deaths, British children's writers, English novelists, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Writers from Gloucestershire

Dick King-Smith (27 March 1922 – 4 January 2011), was an English author. He wrote many children's books. The most popular was The Sheep-Pig. This book was called Babe the Gallant Pig in the United States. The book was made into the movie Babe.

[[Poly Styrene]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, 2011 deaths, Black British musicians, British punk musicians, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from breast cancer, Disease-related deaths in Sussex, English rock musicians, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Kent, People from Bromley, People with bipolar disorder, Singers from London

Poly Styrene (3 July 1957 – 25 April 2011), was a British musician. She was best known as the singer in the early punk rock band X-Ray Spex.

[[Phoebe Snow]]

CATEGORIES: singers from New York City, 1950 births, 2011 deaths

Phoebe Snow (July 17, 1950 - April 26, 2011) was an American singer. One of her most popular songs was "Poetry Man", from her album Phoebe Snow. She also sang the theme song for the television series A Different World.

In December 1975, Snow gave birth to a daughter, Valerie, who had hydrocephalus (too much liquid around the brain). Snow cared for her until Valerie died in 2007.

Snow suffered a brain hemorrhage (bleeding in the brain) in January 2010, from which she never recovered. Complications from the hemorrhage caused her death.

[[Vann Nath]]

CATEGORIES: Artists, 1946 births, 2011 deaths, Writers, Cambodian people

Vann Nath (1946 – September 5, 2011) was a Cambodian artist, writer and human rights activist.

He was born in Battambang Province in northwestern Cambodia. By age 14 or 15, he was working at factory jobs for very small amounts of money. Nath was a monk from the age of 17 to 21. His sister died, and Vann Nath stopped being a monk. He began to help support the family. He entered a painting school in 1965. He was able to make money by painting after two years of study.

Natt was arrested January 7, 1978 by the Khmer Rouge He wote and painted pictures of his experiences in the Tuol Sleng prison, also known as S-21. He wrote his life story in the 1988 book, A Cambodian Prison Portrait: One Year in the Khmer Rouge's S-21 Prison. It is the only written story by a survivor of the prison. Nath survived because he was a great artist. Comrade Duch did not kill him, so that Natt could make paintings and sculptures of Pol Pot. He played an important role in helping to revive the arts in Cambodia after decades of war and genocide.

During 2001 and 2002, Vann Nath worked with Cambodian movie director Rithy Panh to make a documentary called S-21: The Khmer Rouge Killing Machine. Panh brought together former prisoners and guards from the former Tuol Sleng prison. Vann Nath spoke stringly and asked his former torturers questions.

Vann Nath had many health problems in his life, but he continued to paint and write about life during the time of Pol Pot. He died in 2011 in Phnom Penh. He was 66.

[[Stefan Maierhofer]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, Players of the Austrian national football team, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Stefan Maierhofer (born 16 August 1982) is a football player from Austria.  He plays as striker. Since 2011 he plays for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg.

[[Vittorio Arrigoni]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths by strangulation, Gaza Strip, Italian writers, Italian journalists, Murder victims, People from Lombardy

Vittorio Arrigoni (4 February 1975 in Besana in Brianza, Lombardy - 15 April 2011 in Gaza) was an Italian journalist and peace activist who had gone to live in the Gaza Strip. He was very critical of Israel, but also Islamist groups that wanted an extreme Islamic state. 

An Islamic terrorist group kidnapped Arrigoni and said they would kill him unless the Hamas government released their leader from prison. They showed Arrigoni with his eyes covered, on a YouTube video, with the text "The Italian hostage entered our land only to spread corruption." The police went to a building in Gaza where they found Arrigoni's body. He had been beaten and strangled.

[[Thor Vilhjalmsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2011 deaths, Icelandic writers, People from Edinburgh

Thor Vilhjalmsson (12 August 1925 - 2 March 2011) was an Icelandic writer. His first novel, Maðurinn er alltaf einn (Man is Always Alone) was published in 1950. In 1988 he won the Nordic Council Literary Prize for his novel Grámosinn glóir (Justice Undone).

Vilhjalmsson was born in Edinburgh, Scotland in 1925. He studied at the University of Iceland in 1944-1946, at the University of Nottingham in 1946-1947 and at the Sorbonne in Paris from 1947-1952. He worked as a librarian at the National Library of Iceland in 1953 and at the National Theatre 1955-1957. He was involved in many art groups and events including the Reykjavik Writers Festival, the Writer's Union of Iceland, the Federation of Icelandic Artists, the Reykjavík Arts Festival, the Reykjavík Film Festival and the Reykjavík Judo-Society.

[[Party Rock Anthem]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Billboard Rhythmic Songs number-one singles

"Party Rock Anthem" is a hit song by the American duo LMFAO with English singer Lauren Bennett. The song is the first single off their second album Sorry for Party Rocking, released in 2011. The song hit number one in many countries.

[[Cy Twombly]]

CATEGORIES: American painters, 1928 births, 2011 deaths

Edwin Parker "Cy" Twombly, Jr. (April 25, 1928 – July 5, 2011)  was an American artist. He used the nickname "Cy", after his father and the star baseball pitcher Cy Young.

Twombly was known for his large-scale, freely scribbled, calligraphic-style graffiti paintings, on solid fields of mostly gray, tan, or off-white colors. He exhibited his paintings worldwide. Twombly's paintings blur the line between drawing and painting. Many of his best-known paintings of the late 1960s are reminiscent of a school blackboard on which someone has practiced cursive "e"s. Twombly had at this point discarded painting figurative, representational subject-matter, citing the line or smudge – each mark with its own history – as its proper subject.  

Later, many of his paintings and works on paper moved into "romantic symbolism", and their titles can be interpreted visually through shapes and forms and words. Twombly often quoted the poet Stéphane Mallarmé, as well as many classical myths and allegories in his works. Examples of this are his Apollo and The Artist and a series of eight drawings consisting solely of inscriptions of the word "VIRGIL". In a 1994 retrospective, curator Kirk Varnedoe described Twombly's work as “influential among artists, discomfiting to many critics and truculently difficult not just for a broad public, but for sophisticated initiates of postwar art as well". After acquiring Twombly's Three Studies from the Temeraire (1998–99), the Director of the Art Gallery of New South Wales said "sometimes people need a little bit of help in recognising a great work of art that might be a bit unfamiliar". He is said to have influenced younger artists such as Anselm Kiefer, Francesco Clemente, and Julian Schnabel.

[[Owsley Stanley]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 deaths, 1935 births, Accidental deaths in Australia, American chemists, Australian scientists, Road accident deaths, Scientists from Kentucky

Owsley Stanley (born Augustus Owsley Stanley III, January 19, 1935 – March 13, 2011) also known as Bear, was an important person in the rise of the San Francisco Bay counter-culture. During the Beat-era years of Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters scenes, he was also important in the explosion of 1960's psychedelia culture.

A brilliant and eclectic crafts-person he was best known under the name of "Owsley" - a magician like figure who "cooked" LSD. Under the professional name of Bear he is known around the world as the music producer, engineer and artist to psychedelic rock band the Grateful Dead.

Bear was the road manager for The Grateful Dead. He met the band when Kesey had them come to an Owsley Acid test party to try a new batch of LSD. Bear's technical interests helped the band's interest in electronic, acoustic and mystical properties of sound. He became their sound engineer. He was one of the first to mix sound live, and in stereo, and achieved a high sound quality. He often recorded live tapes behind his mixing board. They developed their own high-fidelity audio components and sound-systems for their performances. The bands tours evolved around a gigantic "Wall of Sound", with stacks of Stanley-designed equipment. His expert changes meant fans of the Grateful Dead could enjoy the full sonic range of the concert even in the outdoors.

His abilities helped The Dead to experiment further afield, playing in dramatic and remote places. Their need for support to tour with big shows, and their need for special equipment, meant that companies formed to supply them. These needs were the starting point for both Marin County's high-end music-instrument makers Alembic Inc and concert-sound manufacturer Meyer Sound.March 2011 And his drug making helped to get the band started.

Stanley was one of the first people to manufacture mass quantities of LSD. His LSD is still known for its quality and purity. Between 1965 and 1967, Stanley produced more than 1.25 million doses of LSD. This amount of quality LSD was responsible for the wide popularity of the drug, and the development of an anti-authoritarian, anti-war counter-culture. From the 'Sunset Strip Riots' in Los Angeles, to the Summer of Love in San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury  was described as "the biggest LSD party in history.". The name "Owsley" was linked to cheap LSD of good quality.

Stanley died in an car accident in Queensland, Australia on March 13, 2011.

[[Miss Independent]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 songs, Kelly Clarkson songs

"Miss Independent" is a 2003 song by the singer-songwriter Kelly Clarkson, released from her album Thankful. It was the second single overall at the time of its release by Clarkson, and her second Top Ten hit in Billboard Hot 100. Miss Independent was nominated with Best Female Pop Vocal Performance; however, the song lost the award to the Christina Aguilera song Beautiful.

[[Bruce Cowan]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2011 deaths, Order of Australia, Politicians from New South Wales, National Party of Australia politicians

David Bruce Cowan, AM (15 January 1926—7 April 2011) was an Australian politician and Minister of the Crown in the cabinets of Tom Lewis and Sir Eric Willis. He was a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly for 14 years from 6 November 1965 until his resignation on 29 August 1980 and then for 13 years in the Australian House of Representatives for Lyne for the Country Party of Australia and its successors, the National Country and then National Parties.

He was the father-in-law of the current Premier of New South Wales, Barry O'Farrell.

Cowan died on 7 April 2011, a week after O'Farrell was elected Premier of New South Wales.

[[Anne Francis]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from New York, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from pancreatic cancer

Anne Francis (September 16, 1930 - January 2, 2011) was an American actress. She was best known for starring in the 1956 science fiction movie Forbidden Planet. In the 1960s, she starred in her own television series, Honey West. She was nominated for an Emmy Award for her work in that series.

Francis was diagnosed with lung cancer in 2007. She died of pancreatic cancer in 2011.

[[Dorothea Puente]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American prisoners, American serial killers, People from Sacramento, California

Dorothea Puente (9 January, 1929 — 27 March, 2011) was an American murderer. She was sent to prison for killing three people at her home in Sacramento, California. Puente ran a boarding house where old people, people with a disability or mental illness were able to live. A social worker thought something was wrong after a mentally disabled person disappeared from her home. When the police searched the house they found seven bodies buried in the yard. Another two bodies were found in a box in the Sacramento River. She killed people with drugs and stole their money. She had taken more than $87,000 from people she had murdered.

Puente had a hard life; her father was an alcoholic and her mother a prostitute. She was placed in an orphanage as a young child where she was sexually abused. She married at 16 years of age and had two children who were both later adopted. At 19 her husband died and she was sent to prison for fraud. She was sent to prison for using drugs to steal from old people. Puente said all the victims died from natural causes. She did not tell anyone they had died because she had only been let out of prison on the condition that she did not look after old people. 

The jury found her guilty of three murders. She died from natural causes while still a prisoner at the Central California Women's Facility in Chowchilla.

[[Paul Baran]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2011 deaths, American computer scientists, Engineers from California

Paul Baran (1926–2011) was an American engineer. He was one of the first people to work in developing computer networks. He invented packet switching networks. Later, he started several companies that made important parts of the Internet and other modern digital communication.

Paul Baran was born in Grodno, Poland (which is now in  Belarus) on April 29, 1926. His family moved to the United States in 1928.  He graduated from Drexel University in 1949 with a degree in electrical engineering. He did technical work on the first commercial computers in the United States. He got a Masters degree in engineering from UCLA. His thesis was on character recognition.

In 1959, Baran joined RAND Corporation. He designed a "survivable" communications system that could keep working across long distances even if hit by nuclear weapons. Baran proved that by dividing communication into short packages, the packages could be easily rerouted when a part of the network was lost. Special computers (called "routers") would steer the packages around the network toward their final destinations. This later became the basic design of the internet.

In 1968, Baran was a founder of the Institute for the Future, and then involved in other networking technologies developed in Silicon Valley. He founded a number of high technology companies.

Baran died in Palo Alto, California at the age of 84 on March 26, 2011, from lung cancer.

[[Tom Gehrels]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2011 deaths, American astronomers, Asteroid discoverers

Tom Gehrels (1925 – 2011), was an American astronomer, Professor Planetary Sciences, and Astronomer at the University of Arizona, Tucson. With co-workers, he discovered over 4,000 asteroids, including Apollo asteroids, Amor asteroids, as well as dozens of Trojan asteroids. Gehrels also discovered a number of comets. In an interview, Gehrels was asked what he would do if an asteroid hit the Earth. He said, "Go out there and have a look, of course."

In the 1970s, Gehrels was in charge of the Imaging Photopolarimeter experiment on the Pioneer 10 and Pioneer 11 satellites which explored the planets, Jupiter and Saturn.

Gehrels edited a number of space science textbooks. One of his sons, Neil Gehrels, was also an astronomer.

Gehrels was part of the Dutch Resistance in World War II. In 1994, he argued that German rocket scientist Wernher von Braun had been involved in Nazi concentration camps during that war.

[[City of Preston]]

CATEGORIES: District and borough councils in Lancashire

[[Diane Cilento]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from Queensland, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Cancer deaths in Queensland, People from the Sunshine Coast, Queensland, Writers from Queensland

Diane Cilento (5 October 1933 – 6 October 2011) was an Australian actress and author. 

[[Charles Napier]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from thrombosis, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, actors from Kentucky

Charles L. Napier (April 12, 1936 – October 5, 2011) was an American actor.

Napier was born on April 12, 1936, near Scottsville, Kentucky, Napier moved to Hollywood after graduating from Western Kentucky University with a degree in art. 

His first acting position in Hollywood was on an episode of Mission: Impossible. Napier later acted as military figures villains, such as playing Marshal Murdock in the movie Rambo: First Blood Part II. 

Napier died on October 5, 2011, in a hospital in Bakersfield, California from thrombosis, aged 75.

[[Elisabeth Sladen]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from Liverpool, Cancer deaths in England, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors

Elisabeth Claira Heath Sladen (1 February 1946 – 19 April 2011) was an English actress. Born on 1 February 1946 in Liverpool, Sladen attended the Elliott-Clarke Drama school. From 1973 to 1976, Sladen played Sarah Jane Smith on Doctor Who. Sladen again played Sarah Jane on a spin-off CBBC show, The Sarah Jane Adventures. She died in Southall, west London on 19 April 2011 from cancer.

[[Jordan Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of the United States, Geography of North Carolina

B. Everett Jordan Lake is a lake in Chatham County, North Carolina. It was made by building a dam on the Haw River. Its area is about 22.

[[U + Ur Hand]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, Pink songs

"U + Ur Hand" was a highly controversial song by the American singer Pink. It was released in 2006. Its lyrics represent men that would flirt at her in nightclubs. The single caused major controversy in the United States due to racy lyrics. Some radio stations declined to play the single because of its controversial subject matter.

[[Melody Thornton]]

CATEGORIES: American singer-songwriters, American dancers, Models from Phoenix, Arizona, Writers from Phoenix, Arizona, 1984 births, Living people, Participants in American reality television series, Singers from Phoenix, Arizona

Melody Thornton (born September 28, 1984) is an American R&B singer-songwriter, vocalist, dancer, model, showgirl and television personality. She became famous because she was in the singing group the Pussycat Dolls. She was the youngest member of the group. She had the second most important singing role, next to the lead singer Nicole Scherzinger. She was noticed for her melismatic vocal runs. In 2010, Thornton left the group to work on her solo career.

[[Jessica Sutta]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American dancers, Models from Florida, American movie actors, American television actors, Pussycat Dolls, Actors from Miami, Florida, Singers from Miami, Florida

Jessica Lynn Sutta (born May 15, 1982) is an American dancer, showgirl, singer, recording artist, model, and actress. She is best known as a member of the American pop girl group and dance ensemble, the Pussycat Dolls. She left the group in January 2010 to embark her solo career. She is currently finishing up her first solo album. It is expected to be released in 2012. She is currently signed to Hollywood Records.

[[Ashley Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: American dancers, Models from Phoenix, Arizona, American movie actors, 1981 births, Living people, Pussycat Dolls, American television personalities, Actors from Phoenix, Arizona

Ashley Maria Roberts (born September 14, 1981) is an American dancer, showgirl, recording artist, model, actress, fashion designer and television personality, best known as a former member of the modern burlesque group the Pussycat Dolls. She left the Pussycat Dolls in 2010, to pursue a solo career in acting.

[[Kimberly Wyatt]]

CATEGORIES: American singer-songwriters, American dancers, American models, American television actors, Actors from Missouri, 1982 births, Living people, Pussycat Dolls

Kimberly Kaye Wyatt (born February 4, 1982) is an American showgirl, singer-songwriter, dancer, model, actress and choreographer. She is probably best known for being in the Pussycat Dolls. She joined the Pussycat Dolls in 2003. In 2010, she said that she left the group, and made a new band called Her Majesty & The Wolves.

[[Edward Hardwicke]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from London, Cancer deaths in England, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Royal Air Force

Edward Hardwicke (7 August 1932 – 16 May 2011), also spelled Edward Hardwick, was an English actor. He is best known for his role as Doctor Watson in The Return of Sherlock Holmes series.

[[Ludmilla Radchenko]]

CATEGORIES: Russian actors, Reality television participants, Russian artists, Russian models, Living people, 1978 births

Ludmilla Radchenko  (Людмила Радченко, born November 11, 1978 in Omsk, Soviet Union) is a Russian model, artist and actress. She is best known in Italy and Anglo-Saxon countries.

[[Gil Scott-Heron]]

CATEGORIES: African American musicians, African American writers, American blues musicians, American jazz musicians, American poets, American soul musicians, Musicians from Chicago, People with HIV/AIDS, Singers from Chicago, Writers from Chicago, 1949 births, 2011 deaths

Gilbert "Gil" Scott-Heron (April 1, 1949 – May 27, 2011) was an American poet, musician, and author. He is best known for his work in spoken-word soul music in the 1960s and 1970s and his work with Brian Jackson.

Scott-Heron is most famous for his poem and song, The Revolution Will Not Be Televised.  This piece helped develop the black protest movement and influenced the rap genre.

In 2010, he released an album titled I'm New Here. 

Scott-Heron was HIV-positive.

[[Basse-Terre]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Guadeloupe, Departmental capitals in France, Regional capitals in France

Basse-Terre is the capital of France's Caribbean département d'outre-mer of Guadeloupe.

[[Separatist movements of India]]

CATEGORIES: Separatist movements of India

Separatist movements are groups of people wanting to start a new country that is separate from a large existing country.

In India, some groups want separate countries for groups that have ethnic or language differences. Some groups call for a separate state, others for regional autonomy while some extreme groups demand complete full independence from India.

[[Manfred Gerlach]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2011 deaths, German mayors, Members of the Volkskammer, People from Leipzig, Politicians from Saxony, Presidents of East Germany

Manfred Gerlach (8 May 1928 — 17 October 2011) was the last President of the German Democratic Republic (East Germany), and the only non-communist to be President.

Born in Leipzig in 1928, Gerlach was arrested at school in 1944 for starting an anti-fascist youth group. After World War Two he joined the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). This was one of the small political parties that the communist government allowed to exist. He studied law at the Walter Ulbricht German Academy of State Sciences and Law. During the 1950's he became General Secretary of the LDP and the mayor of Leipzig. From 1967 to 1990 he was on the Council of State, and its vice-chairman. He became chairman of the LDP in 1967 until it merged with two other parties in 1990, to take part in the first free elections in East Germany.

When Egon Krenz resigned as chaiman of the Council of State on 6 December, 1989, Gerlach became acting chairman ( as head of state  he was effectively the President. After the 1990 elections, the new government reorganized, and removed the Council of State, and Gerlach resigned on 5 April 1990. He died in Berlin in 2011 after a long illness.

[[Jeff Conaway]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, Deaths from pneumonia

Jeffrey Charles William Michael "Jeff" Conaway (October 5, 1950 – May 27, 2011) was an American actor. He appeared in the movie Grease and the television series Taxi and Babylon 5. He was born in Manhattan and grew up in Queens. He worked as a model, child actor, and musician. Conaway had problems with drug addiction and died of problems from taking too many pain medications. 

[[Don Kirshner]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2011 deaths, American songwriters, Record producers

Don Kirshner (April 17, 1934 – January 17, 2011) was an American song publisher and rock producer. He managed successful pop groups such as The Monkees, Kansas, and The Archies. Kirshner was born and raised in the Bronx. He studied at the Bronx High School of Science. One of his classmates there was Bobby Darin.

In the late 1950s and early 1960s Kirshner and his partner Al Nevins had a successful music publishing company called Aldon Music. They managed songwriters from the "Brill Building", including Carole King, Gerry Goffin, Neil Sedaka, Howard Greenfield, Barry Mann, Cynthia Weil and Jack Keller. He also had three record labels: Chairman, Calendar, and Kirshner Records.

ABC Television asked Kirshner to produce a new music TV program call "In Concert". He left after one year to produce his own show called Don Kirshner's Rock Concert. This show featured live rock music performances and was very successful.

He died of heart failure in Boca Raton, Florida on January 17, 2011. He was 76 years old.

[[Dan Peek]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2011 deaths, American rock guitarists, Musicians from Florida, American folk musicians, Country musicians

Daniel Milton "Dan" Peek (November 1, 1950  July 24, 2011) was an American musician. Born in Panama City, Florida, Peek moved to England in 1963. While attending London Central High School, Peek met Dewey Bunnell and Gerry Beckley. They formed the band America, who had eight songs reach the Mainstream Top 40 between 1971 and 1975. Peek left the band in 1977 to work in Contemporary Christian music. He died on July 24, 2011 in Farmington, Missouri.

[[John Dye]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, 2011 deaths, American television actors, Actors from Mississippi

John Carroll Dye (January 31, 1963 – January 10, 2011) was an American actor. He was born in Amory, Mississippi. He attended Mississippi State University and the University of Memphis. In 1994, Dye played the part of Andrew, the angel of death, in the television series Touched by an Angel. The show ran for nine seasons before ending in April 2003. In 2000, he starred in the television movie Once Upon a Christmas. In 2001, he appeared in the sequel Twice Upon a Christmas.

Dye died on January 10, 2011, in San Francisco, California, from heart failure.

[[Park Gyu-ri]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, K-pop singers, South Korean singers, People from Seoul

Park Gyu-ri (born on May 21, 1988 in Seoul) is a South Korean singer. She is often known by the mononym Gyuri. She was a member of the girl group Kara, which was formed by DSP Entertainment in 2007. As the leader of the group, she is reported to have come up with its name.

[[Kang Jiyoung]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, K-pop singers, South Korean singers

Kang Jiyoung (born January 18, 1994) is a South Korean idol singer, former member of the Korean girl group Kara.

[[Cliff Robertson]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2011 deaths, American stage actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winners, Actors from San Diego, California, Best Actor Academy Award winners

Clifford Parker "Cliff" Robertson, III (September 9, 1923 – September 10, 2011) was an American actor with a long movie and television career. Robertson played the role of John F. Kennedy in the 1963 movie PT 109. He won the 1968 Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in the movie Charly. On television, he acted as retired astronaut Buzz Aldrin in the 1976 movie Return to Earth. He played a role based on Director of Central Intelligence Richard Helms in the 1977 movie based on John Ehrlichman's Watergate novel The Company. He played Henry Ford in the 1987 Ford: The Man and the Machine. His last well-known role was Uncle Ben in the three Spider-Man movies made between 2002 and 2007.

[[Jagjit Singh]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2011 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Indian singers

Jagjit Singh (8 February 1941 — 10 October 2011) was an Indian singer. He was known as the "Ghazal King". Ghazal is a classical type of song, dating back to ancient Persia. It uses a special rhyming pattern and the words are written using a special pattern of stanzas. The songs are always about love. Singh, and his wife Chitra Singh who is also a ghazal singer, achieved a lot of commercial success in the 1970's and 1980s. He recorded more than 50 albums.

The ghazal is very popular in Pakistan, and Singh was one of the few Indian singers to become a success in that country. His music was described as "...gentle and soothing, and went to your heart."  Ghazal was once a classical, elite type of music and poetry. Singh was able to make ghazal popular by singing in many different languages, singing ghazal in movies and music videos. He used modern technology and was the first ghazal singer to use multi-tracking.

He died in Mumbai, after a stroke in 2011.

[[Grete Waitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2011 deaths, Cancer deaths in Norway, Competitors in athletics, Female athletes, Medalists at the 1984 Summer Olympics, Norwegian Olympians, Olympic silver medalists, Sportspeople from Oslo

Grete Waitz (1 October 1953 – 19 April 2011) was a Norwegian marathon runner and former world record holder. Waitz won nine New York City Marathons between 1978 and 1988, more than any other runner in history. She won a silver medal at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, California. She won a gold medal at the 1983 World Championships in Athletics in Helsinki.

Waitz also won the London Marathon in 1983 and 1986. The win in 1986 was her personal best time of 2:24:54). She won the Stockholm Marathon in 1988 at 2:28:24. (As of 2011 this is the Stockholm course record for women).

In 2000, Waitz was inducted into the United States National Distance Running Hall of Fame. She died from cancer in 2011.

[[Ryan Dunn]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, 2011 deaths, Accidental deaths in Pennsylvania, American television personalities, Entertainers from Ohio, Road accident deaths in the United States

Ryan Matthew Dunn (June 11, 1977 – June 20, 2011) was an American reality television personality and stuntman. He was best known for being a member of the Jackass and Viva La Bam television programs. He died in car crash in West Goshen Township, Chester County, Pennsylvania. Police reported that Dunn was the driver. His blood alcohol level was 0.196%. That is more than twice the state's legal limit of 0.08%.

[[Knut Steen]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2011 deaths, Norwegian people, Sculptors

Knut Steen (1924 — 22 September 2011) was a Norwegian sculptor. He spent much of his life living between Sandefjord, Norway, and Carrara, Italy. He began sculpting in 1946 and worked with a range of materials including marble, granite, bronze, steel and concrete. In 2011 a small museum was opened in Sandefjord to display some of his work. The collection holds 12 marble sculptures and four works.

[[Pokémon Mystery Dungeon]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon RPGs, Video game spin-offs

Pokémon Mystery Dungeon is a Pokémon game where you form a rescue team (Pokémon Mystery Dungeon Blue and Red Rescue Team) or an exploration team (Pokémon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Darkness, Time and Sky). In the game, the main star is you, and before you start playing, you have to answer a quiz to determine what Pokémon you turn into.

[[Alberto Granado]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2011 deaths, Argentine scientists, Biochemists, Cuban people

Alberto Granado Jiménez (8 August 1922 — 5 March 2011) was an Argentine biochemist. He traveled through South America in 1951 with his friend Che Guevara on a motorcycle. They kept a journal about the trip and what they saw. These writings were the basis for Walter Salle's movie, The Motorcycle Diaries (2004).

Granado was born in Hernando, Argentina, and later studied chemistry and pharmacology at the University of Córdoba. Active in politics, he spent time in prison after taking part in student protests against the government. He met Che at university, and in 1951 they traveled thousands of miles and finally ended up in Caracas, Venezuela. Che went back home to finish his medical degree, but Granado stayed and worked in a leprosy clinic.

Granada moved to Cuba in 1961 and set up the school of medicine at the University of Santiago. He later moved to Havana and was able to work on scientific research. He died in Havana in 2011. He asked for his ashes to be scattered in Cuba, Argentina and Venezuela.

[[Tony Tan]]

CATEGORIES: People's Action Party (Singapore) politicians, Political office-holders in Singapore, 1940 births, Living people

Tony Tan Keng Yam (陈庆炎, born 7 February 1940, in Singapore) is the seventh President of Singapore from 2011 through 2017. Until 1 July 2011, he was Executive Director and Deputy Chairman of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC) and Chairman of Singapore Press Holdings Limited (SPH). He previously was Chairman of Singapore's National Research Foundation and Deputy Chairman of the Research, Innovation and Enterprise Council. In the late 1980s, he was Lee Kuan Yew's first choice to succeed him as Prime Minister of Singapore, but he declined. He later returned to Cabinet and as Singapore's Deputy Prime Minister from 1995 to 2005, and Minister for Defence from 1995 to 2003.

In August 2011, Tan won the Singapore presidential election by a narrow 0.34% margin, and was sworn in as the seventh President of Singapore on 1 September 2011.

[[Nguyen Cao Ky]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2011 deaths, Vietnamese people, Prime ministers

Nguyễn Cao Kỳ (8 September 1930–23 July 2011) was a South Vietnamese military leader, politician and Prime Minister of the Republic of Vietnam in a military junta from 1965 to 1967.

[[Thriller (song)]]

CATEGORIES: Pop songs, 1984 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Thriller" is a 1983 song by Michael Jackson. It was on this album Thriller. It was written by Rod Temperton. The song has been featured on many of his greatest hits albums. It has been covered by other musicians. It was narrated by Vincent Price.

The music video was made by John Landis, George J. Folsey, Jr., and Jackson. It is 13 minutes long and was MTV's first world premiere video. In it Jackson turns into a werecat and a zombie. The video was nominated for six MTV Video Music Awards in 1984. It won Viewers Choice, Best Overall Performance and Best Choreography. It did not win Best Concept Video, Best Male Video, or Video of the Year. In 1985 it won the Grammy Award for Best Video, Long Form.

In 1999 MTV put "Thriller" #1 in their 100 Greatest Music Videos Ever Made list.

In 2009 the video for "Thriller" was added to the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress. It was the first music video ever to be added to it.

In 2013 entered the Billboard Hot 100 again.

[[Equivalence relation]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

With an equivalence relation, it is possible to partition a set into distinct equivalence classes. As an example, consider the set of all animals on a farm and define the following relation: two animals are related if they belong to the same species. Under this relation, a cow is related to an ox, but not to a chicken. In fact, this relation is an equivalence relation because:

In this example, the set of all animals related to a particular ox forms an equivalence class—it is the set of cattle. In fact, the set of all animals on this farm can be partitioned into different equivalence classes (in this case species).

[[Solid-state drive]]

CATEGORIES: Storage devices

A solid-state drive (SSD) is a data storage device, typically used in a computer. It uses flash memory to store data even after power is turned off. SSDs are designed to access data in the same way as traditional hard disk drives (HDDs). A HDD can usually be directly replaced with an SSD.

The best thing about solid state drives is that they have a much faster read/write speed than hard disk drives. They also have no moving parts, which means they don't make noise or break as easily. However, SSDs are can be more expensive than a hard drive. This also means that for the same price, someone can get much more capacity if they select a HDD instead.

A hybrid drive combines the features of an HDD and an SSD into one unit. It contains a large HDD and a smaller SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed files. A hybrid drive can offer almost the same performance as an SSD and it can contain more capacity. The price is also lower than of an SSD. The main market for this drive are the laptop users as these devices can accommodate no more than one drive. 

The solid state drive technology is improving quickly and new SSD models are being introduced often. However, they have not gained popularity among many users. We still find that HDDs are still dominating the market. Sales of SSDs are expected to escalate and overturn that of HDDs after 2020. The biggest draw back to SSDs over hard disk drives is that SSDs have a limited amount of read and writes it can take before the sector fails as is not a large issue with traditional hard disk drives. 

[[Martial Célestin]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2011 deaths, Prime Ministers of Haiti

Martial Lavaud Célestin (October 4, 1913 – February 4, 2011) was the first Prime Minister of Haïti. He was born in Ganthier and worked as a lawyer. President Leslie Manigat made him prime minister in March 1988. A coup removed Célestin from power on 20 June 1988.

[[Norwegian Crusade]]

CATEGORIES: History of Norway, Crusades

The Norwegian Crusade was one of several religious wars in which European countries fought against Muslims in Turkey and the Middle East. The First Crusade was 1095-1099. The Norwegian Crusade was next, from 1107 to 1110. King Sigurd I led the crusade. Sigurd was the first European king to go on crusade to the Holy Land. He did not lose any battles. The Norwegian crusade seems to have been similar to earlier Viking raids.

[[Jumping spider]]

CATEGORIES: Spiders

Jumping spiders belong to the family Salticidae. These spiders catch their prey by jumping on them.

Species live in many habitats, from leaves lying on the ground, to the tops of trees in the forest, and even way up on Mt. Everest. They are found on every continent in the world except for Antarctica. 

At present, 5026 species in 530 genera have been found. They are actually the largest family of spiders, with about 13% of all species.

[[William Lipscomb]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2011 deaths, American chemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, People from Cambridge, Massachusetts, Scientists from Cleveland, Ohio, Harvard University faculty

Chemistry

William Nunn Lipscomb, Jr. (December 9, 1919– April 14, 2011) was a Nobel Prize-winning American inorganic and organic chemist. He worked in nuclear magnetic resonance, theoretical chemistry, boron chemistry, and biochemistry.

Lipscomb was born in Cleveland, Ohio. His family moved to Lexington, Kentucky in 1920.He lived there until he earned his Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry at the University of Kentucky in 1941. Then he earned his Doctor of Philosophy degree in Chemistry from the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) in 1946.

From 1946 to 1959, he taught at the University of Minnesota. From 1959 to 1990, he was a professor of chemistry at Harvard University. After 1990, he became a professor emeritus at Harvard.

Lipscomb went to live in Cambridge, Massachusetts until his death in 2011 from pneumonia.

Lipscomb was one of the first people to use nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) to study chemical structures. He learned out how to look at NMR data to find what atoms are connected together in a molecule.  This is called "chemical shift".

Lipscomb studied molecules. These molecules included boron atoms. Lipscomb used this work to learn basic ideas about how atoms form chemical bonds. Lipscomb and his students created many important ideas in the field of theoretical chemistry. His work on boron compounds won a Nobel Prize in 1976. Three of his students went on to also win separate Nobel Prizes in Chemistry.

Lipscomb's later research was on the atomic structure of proteins. He studied how enzymes work. His group used x-ray diffraction to measure the three-dimensional structure of these proteins. He calculated the exact location of every single atom in these large molecules. Lipscomb then studied these details to learn how the molecules work in biological systems.

Carboxypeptidase A  was the first protein structure from Lipscomb's group.

[[I Am Weasel]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoon Network series, Animated television series, 1990s television series, 1997 American television series debuts, 2000 American television series endings, English-language television programs

I Am Weasel (also spelled as I.M. Weasel because of the character) is an American animated television series produced by Cartoon Network Studios and Hanna-Barbera, created by David Feiss and aired on Cartoon Network. The show is about a very smart weasel named I.M. Weasel who uses his talents to help people in all different ways, and because of this is adored by everybody in the world.  There is also a stupid baboon named I.R. Baboon who wants to be more admired than the weasel by trying to help people in his own way, but this often has bad results and makes everyone dislike him.

I Am Weasel was originally a series of segments in its sister series Cow and Chicken, usually being aired as the third of three segments in a Cow and Chicken episode. The series started on July 15, 1997 and its first four seasons premiered in that format. In 1999, I Am Weasel was separated and got its own half-hour show, premiering as an independent series on June 10, 1999. All of the 52 episodes of I Am Weasel that originally aired on Cow and Chicken began to air in the new independent show, and were later joined by a fifth season with 27 new episodes, for a total of 79 episodes. The series ended in 2000.

[[Hella Haasse]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2011 deaths, Dutch novelists, People from Batavia

Hélène "Hella" Serafia Haasse (2 February 1918 – 29 September 2011) was a Dutch writer. She was often called "the Grand Old Lady" of Dutch literature.

Many people think her greatest book is Heren van de Thee (The Tea Lords). It is famous in many countries around the world. In 1988 Haasse interviewed the Dutch Queen for her 50th birthday.

[[Derived demand]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Derived demand is what happens when someone buys one thing which then makes someone need to buy something else as well. For example if someone bought a car then someone has to buy the metal that is used to build it. 

[[Pete Postlethwaite]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Lancashire, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Members of the Order of the British Empire, People from Warrington, 1946 births, 2011 deaths

Pete Postlethwaite OBE (7 February 1946 – 2 January 2011) was a British actor.  In 1994, he was nominated for an Oscar for his part in In the Name of the Father.  He was also awarded an OBE by Queen Elizabeth II in 2003.

Postlethwaite was born in Warrington, Lancashire and died of pancreatic cancer in Shrewsbury, Shropshire.

[[IHOP]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 establishments in the United States, Companies based in California, Glendale, California, American restaurants

The International House of Pancakes, better known by its acronym IHOP, is a restaurant chain. It serves mostly breakfast foods but also serves lunch and dinner. There are more than 1,500 restaurants in all 50 states as well as in Canada, Mexico, Guatemala, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

[[Otmar Gutmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 1993 deaths, Animators, German entertainers, People from Baden-Württemberg, Television directors, Television producers

Otmar Gutmann (April 24, 1937 in Münstertal - October 13, 1993 in Russikon) was a German television producer, animator and director. He is best known for making the cartoon Pingu.

[[Zwijndrecht, Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in South Holland, Municipalities of South Holland

Zwijndrecht is a town and municipality in the province South Holland in the Netherlands. It is between the cities Rotterdam and Dordrecht.

In 2011, about 44,500 people lived there.

[[Zwijndrecht]]

Zwijndrecht is the name of two cities:

[[Kan'ichi Asakawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1948 deaths, Asian historians, Japanese scientists, Japanologists, People from Fukushima Prefecture, Waseda University alumni, Yale University alumni

Kan'ichi Asakawa was a Japanese academic, author, historian, librarian, curator and peace advocate.

[[OPERA experiment]]

CATEGORIES: Physics, Experiments

The Oscillation Project with Emulsion-tRacking Apparatus (OPERA) is a scientific experiment for detecting tau neutrinos from muon neutrino oscillations. The experiment is a joint effort between the European Centre for Nuclear Research (CERN) and the Gran Sasso National Laboratory (LNGS). In September 2011, OPERA scientists said that they had seen neutrinos appear to travel faster than the speed of light. However, the scientists later found problems in their equipment which had caused the anomaly. The neutrino time of flight was consistent with the speed of light.

[[Ian Nish]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, British historians, Japanologists, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, 1926 births, University of Sydney faculty

Ian Hill Nish CBE (3 June 1926 -  ) is a British academic, a specialist in Japanese studies, and  Emeritus Professor of International History at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE).

He is an expert on the Anglo-Japanese Alliance and Japanese foreign policy.

[[Reggaeton]]

CATEGORIES: Reggaeton, Reggae music

Reggaeton is a form of urban music that first became popular with Latin American youths in the early 1990s. Reggaeton's predecessor originated in Panama as Reggae en Español. After the music's gradual exposure in Puerto Rico, it eventually evolved into reggaeton. It blends British West reggae and dancehall with Latin American genres, as well as hip hop. Modern reggaeton beats follow the structure of the Dem Bow Riddim, a beat created by Jamaican producers Steely & Clevie in the late 80s and early 90s. However, over the years, it has been losing every noticeable similarity with its original reggae origins.

[[First Kashmir War]]

CATEGORIES: Wars involving Pakistan, 1947 in Asia, Wars involving India, Jammu and Kashmir, 1940s in India

The India-Pakistan War of 1947-48 is also known as the First Kashmir War. It was fought between the Dominion of India and Dominion of Pakistan over the former Princely state of Kashmir and Jammu from 1947 to 1948. 

This was the first of four wars fought between the two newly independent nations. The result of the war still affects the geopolitics of both the countries. The result of the war was inconclusive. However, neutral assessments seem to agree that India was the victor of the war because it was able to successfully defend about two-thirds of the Kashmir, including Kashmir valley, Jammu and Ladakh.

[[Indo-Pakistani War of 1965]]

CATEGORIES: 1965, 1960s in Asia, Jammu and Kashmir, Wars involving India, Wars involving Pakistan

More sources

The Indo-Pakistani Fight of 1965 was a war that took place between April 1965 and 23 September 1965 between Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Republic of India. This conflict became known as the Second Kashmir War. Both countries  fought  over the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir. The first Kashmir War took place in  1947. The war began after Pakistan's Operation Gibraltar. In this operation, Pakistan wanted to bring  forces into Indian-held Jammu and Kashmir to conquer the area of Kashmir ruled by India. The five-week war caused thousands of deaths on both sides. It ended when India asked the United Nations (UN) for ceasefire.

[[Nusrat Bhutto]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistani people, 1929 births, 2011 deaths

Begum Nusrat Bhutto (بیگم نصرت بھٹو, بیگم نصرت ڀٽو, March 23, 1929 – October 23, 2011) was an Iranian-Pakistani who was the former First Lady of Pakistan and widow of former Prime Minister of Pakistan Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. She became her husband's successor as the chairman of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) from 1979 to 1983. The couple had four children: PPP chairman and the first and only female Pakistani Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto (1953-2007), Murtaza Bhutto (1954-1996), Sanam Bhutto (born 1957) and Shahnawaz Bhutto (1958-1985). She died on October 23, 2011.

[[Japan studies]]

CATEGORIES: Japan

Japanese studies (or Japanology) is a term generally used to describe the historical and cultural study of Japan.  In North America, the academic field is usually referred to as Japanese studies.  The term "Japanology" is more often used in Europe.

Japanology is the study of many subjects, including

The roots of Japanology begin with the Dutch at Dejima, Nagasaki in the Edo period.

Japanology was encouraged by the Asiatic Society of Japan at Yokohama which was established in 1872.

[[Blind Fool Love]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Italian musical groups, Post-hardcore bands

Blind Fool Love is a post-hardcore Italian band, made in Toscana, Italy in 2005. In 2007 the band released their first demo, followed by the EP Il pianto in May 2011. The first studio album is called La strage di Cupido and was released in September 27, 2011, by Sony Music.

[[Codelco]]

CATEGORIES: Metals, Chile, Santiago de Chile

Codelco-Chile (Corporación Nacional del Cobre de Chile - CODELCO) is a state mining company in Chile that uses and exploits copper.

[[Planet Dinosaur]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 British television series debuts, 2010s British television series, BBC Television programmes, Dinosaurs, Documentaries, English-language television programs

Planet Dinosaur is a six-part documentary television series produced by the BBC, narrated by John Hurt, first aired in the United Kingdom in 2011, produced by VFX studio Jellyfish Pictures. It is the first major dinosaur-related series for BBC One since Walking with Dinosaurs. There are more than 50 different prehistoric species featured, and they and their environments were created entirely as computer-generated images, for only a third of the production cost that was needed a decade earlier for Walking with Dinosaurs. By the time the third episode aired, the companion book to the series was released accompany it. The DVD will be released after the series finishes.

[[Protecting Children from Internet Pornographers Act]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Pornography, United States law, Children

On July 28, 2011, the United States House Judiciary Committee passed the Protecting Children from Internet Pornographers Act of 2011 (HR 1981). The bill passed by a vote of 19-10. Next the bill will be discussed in the House of Representatives. Some people are against this bill because it gives a lot of access to personal information. Some people have said that the bill will not become a law, but the Congressional Budget Office put out a report on October 12, 2011, with the cost of making the changes in the bill. The next step is that the bill will be discussed in the House of Representatives.

[[Aishwarya Rai Bachchan]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Indian movie actors, Indian models, Miss World winners, Indian beauty pageant winners

Aishwarya Rai Bachchan (born 1 November 1973) is an Indian actress. She won the Miss World 1994 pageant.  Her acting has made her one of the most popular celebrities in India. She has won many awards, including two Filmfare Awards. Bachchan also was given the Padma Shri by the Government of India in 2009 and the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the Government of France in 2012. Some parts of the media have called her "the most beautiful woman in the world".

[[Mariner 9]]

CATEGORIES: Mariner program, Mars

Mariner 9 was a NASA spacecraft. It was the ninth spacecraft in the Mariner programme. It was sent to study and orbit the planet Mars. It was the first spacecraft to orbit another planet. Mariner 9 was launched on May 30, 1971 from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Mariner 9 reached Mars on November 13, 1971, after a ~170 day flight. The spacecraft was sent to map 70 % of the surface of Mars and to study the temperature changes of the Martian atmosphere and surface. When it arrived, a dust storm hid the surface of Mars. After a few months the dust settled and Mariner 9 discovered the Valles Marineris.

[[Flemming Jørgensen]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2011 deaths, Danish actors, Danish singers, Danish movie actors

Flemming "Bamse" Duun Jørgensen (7 February 1947 – 1 January 2011) was a Danish pop singer and actor. He was the lead singer of the band Bamses Venner (Teddy (Bear)'s Friends) and also released solo albums. As an actor he received a Robert Award for best male supporting actor in 1986 for the movie Ofelia kommer til byen (Ophelia comes to town). Jørgensen died of a cardiac arrest on New Year's Day in 2011.

[[William George Aston]]

CATEGORIES: Japanologists, British historians, 1841 births, 1911 deaths, British diplomats

William George Aston (9 April 1841 – 22 November 1911) was a British diplomat, author and scholar-expert in the language and history of Japan and Korea.

[[Emperor Junna]]

CATEGORIES: Emperors of Japan, 786 births, 840 deaths

Emperor Junna was the 53rd emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.  His reign started in 823 and ended in 833.

[[Stye]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases and disorders of the eye

Styes (ˈ), also hordeolum (h) are infections at the base of a human eyelid or the eyelash. They are usually formed in the lids and are small red bumps; these styes can be either external or internal. Styes are small-sized and rather short in duration. They happen particularly often in infants, although people of all ages can get it. They're triggered by eye rubbing or poor nutrition. They often last four days under treatment to two weeks without.

[[Isaac Titsingh]]

CATEGORIES: 1745 births, 1812 deaths, Ambassadors of the Netherlands, Dutch esotericists, Dutch historians, Dutch scientists, Fellows of the Royal Society, Freemasons, Japanologists, Writers from Amsterdam

Isaac Titsingh FRS (10 January 1745 in Amsterdam – 2 February 1812 in Paris) was a Dutch surgeon, scholar, merchant-trader and ambassador.

[[Morrison Formation]]

CATEGORIES: Jurassic dinosaurs, Geography of Montana, Geography of Utah, Geography of Colorado, Geography of Nebraska, Geography of Kansas, Geography of Arizona, Geography of New Mexico, Geography of Wyoming, Lagerstätten, Dinosaurs of North America, Geological formations, Sedimentary rocks

The Morrison Formation is a geological formation laid down in the Upper Jurassic. It is a distinctive sequence of sedimentary rock in the western United States, and is named after Morrison, Colorado.  It has been the most fertile source of dinosaur fossils in North America. 

It is composed of mudstone, sandstone, siltstone and limestone. Its colour is light grey, greenish gray, or red. Most of the fossils occur in the green siltstone beds and lower sandstones, relics of the rivers and floodplains of the Jurassic period.

