[[Will Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Adventures in Odyssey, American voice actors, Singers from Cleveland, Ohio, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, Living people

Will Ryan (Born November 13, 1939) is an American voice actor, singer, comedian, musician, composer, writer and producer from Cleveland, Ohio. His music career first began when he was in high school. He then signed the first of two recording contracts with CBS Records.

He got back into music and after moving to California. He began to write and record wacky songs for Disney. He did the voice of Rabbit, Tigger, and Eeyore in Disney Channel's Welcome to Pooh Corner. Since 1988 he has done the voice of Eugene Meltsner (and other characters: Harlow Doyle, Officer O'Ryan, Officer David Harley, etc.) for the Focus on the Family radio series Adventures in Odyssey. 

He also voiced Rabbit in Winnie the Pooh and a Day for Eeyore. He was also the original voice of Petrie in The Land Before Time.

[[Captivity (animal)]]

CATEGORIES: Zoos, Animal rights, Cultural history, Cultural studies

Animals who live under human control or care are in captivity. Captivity can be used as a term meaning the keeping of either domesticated animals (livestock, pets) or wild animals. This may include for example farms, private homes and zoos. Sometimes humans take care of critically endangered animals and therefore these animals are in captivity.

[[Choctaw]]

CATEGORIES: Native American

The Choctaw are a Native American people originally from the southeastern United States.

[[Native Americans in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Native American, Ethnic groups in the United States

Native Americans in the United States (also known as American Indians) are the indigenous peoples from the areas of North America now part of the continental United States, including parts of Alaska. The Cherokee were the first Native Americans to be recognized as US citizens. In the 19th century white colonists called the Cherokee one of the Five Civilized Tribes. The others were Chicksaw, Choctaw, Creek and Seminole. 

There are about 310 Indian reservations in the US. Most Native Americans do not live on a reservation anymore. 

Native Americans are affected by some problems more than White Americans. For example Native Americans are six times more likely to suffer from alcoholism than average.  About 24% live in extreme poverty.  Native American and Native Alaskan women are more likely to be targets of sexual violence than other women.

[[Brian Cowen]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Government ministers of Ireland, Members of Dáil Éireann, Taoisigh of Ireland

Brian Cowen (born 10 January 1960) was the Taoiseach (prime minister) of the Republic of Ireland.  He became the taoiseach on 7 May 2008, after Bertie Ahern, he resigned after losing a general election on 9 March 2011. He was the leader of a political party called Fianna Fáil. They were in a coalition government with the Green Party and the Progressive Democrats. Independent TDs (Irish members of parliament) also support his government.

[[Web chat]]

CATEGORIES: Internet communication, Web browsers

A web chat is a chat system to exchange information via the Web. People use a web browser to communicate with others. Apart from the browser you do not need anything else, which makes a web chat easy to use and ideal for people not very experienced with computers.

On the technical side web chats are often written with Java, Flash or Ajax.

[[British Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix, 1920s establishments in the United Kingdom

The British Grand Prix is a grand prix motor race organised in Great Britain by the Royal Automobile Club. First held in 1950 and after that every year since today.

[[Ob River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Russia, Siberia

The Ob is a river in Siberia. Together with the Lena and the Jenissei, it is one of the most important rivers of Siberia. Depending upon how its length is measured, it can be between 3.650 km and 6.210 km long. Some important cities on the banks of the river include Novosibirsk(Russia's third largest city), Barnaul, Kolpashevo, Nizhnevartovsk, Surgut, Khanty-Mansiysk, Beryozovo, Labytnangi, and Salekhard. The Irtysh is the Ob river's main tributary. Other tributaries include the Omsk, Parabel, Chaya, Tobol and Ishim.

[[Deductive reasoning]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

Deduction is one of the two main types of reasoning. The other is induction. In deduction, we apply a general rule to a particular case.

Deductive arguments are attempts to show that a conclusion must follow from a set of premises or hypotheses. A deductive argument is valid if the conclusion follows necessarily from the premises.

Aristotle, the first person we know who wrote down laws of deduction, gives this example of deduction:

The first two statements are called "premises". The last statement is called the "conclusion". The conclusion is taken from the premises. 

Deductive reasoning is often called "top-down logic", whereas inductive reasoning is called "bottom-up reasoning".

[[Inductive reasoning]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

Induction is one of the main forms of logical reasoning.  The other is deduction.  In induction, we find a general rule by using a large number of particular cases.  For example, watching water in many different situations, we can conclude that water always flows downhill.

Induction is not the method of science, but it can be the starting-point for science. Everyone can see that the sun, moon and stars appear to move across the sky. Early civilisations thought this meant they revolved around the Earth, because that is what they always seem to do. We now know this is quite wrong, but discovering the real explanation was the start of modern science (see Copernicus, Galileo and heliocentrism). What they did was to work out an alternative theory or hypothesis, which eventually was shown to be a much better explanation of all the observations. That is real science, but the observations of the heavens, which started with the Babylonians, showed the regularity which needed to be explained. What science did was to prove the obvious explanation was not the right one.  

Another example is the work of Darwin, who spent half his life collecting interesting facts about animals and plants. If he had stopped there, his name might not be known today. What he did was suggest a way in which all these facts could be explained. It was an hypothesis which could be, and was, tested in every way possible. It is well known now that the theory of evolution by natural selection best explains the way the living world has come to be as we see it. Again, real science was built on a collection of facts which needed an explanation. The philosophy of science is about testing hypotheses, rather than collecting facts, though facts are the basis of all science.

Induction, the collecting of facts, is not by itself science. The philosopher Hume said it meant “instances of which we have had no experience resemble those of which we have had experience”. Later, John Stuart Mill raised the question “Why is a single instance, in some cases, sufficient for a complete induction, while in others examples go such a little way towards establishing a universal proposition?”  Philosophers usually think the real issue is: what distinguishes good from bad inductions? A way to say it is: "If all known As are B, then probably all As whatever are B". 

[[Oklahoma Territory]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in Oklahoma, 1890 establishments in the United States, 1907 disestablishments, 1900s disestablishments in the United States, Former territories of the United States

Oklahoma Territory was an organized territory of the United States from May 2, 1890 until November 16, 1907, when Oklahoma became the 46th state. It was made up of the western area of what is now the state of Oklahoma. The eastern area consisted of the last remaining part of Indian Territory.

[[Scientific theory]]

CATEGORIES: Science, Philosophy of science

In everyday speech, the word "theory" is used as a "best guess". In modern science, a scientific theory is a tested and expanded hypothesis that explains many experiments. It fits ideas together in a framework. If anyone finds a case where all or part of a scientific theory is false, then that theory is either changed or thrown out.

An example of a scientific theory that underwent many changes is the germ theory of disease. In ancient times, people believed that diseases were caused by the gods, or by curses, or by improper behavior. Germs (microorganisms) were unknown, because germs are too small to see. With the invention of the microscope, germs were discovered, and the germ theory of disease was proposed. Thanks to the germ theory of disease, many diseases can now be cured. However, the germ theory of disease had to be modified, because some diseases are not caused by germs. The flu and scurvy are examples of diseases that are not caused by bacteria, but viruses or poor nutrition. Scientists modified the germ theory of disease, so that today we would state that theory as "Some diseases are caused by germs".

To be a scientific theory, a theory must be tested a large number of times, by different scientists in different places, and must pass the test every time. The theory must be stated exactly, sometimes using mathematics. And it must fit in with all of the other scientific theories. Science has many branches. Physics, chemistry, biology, geology, and astronomy are some of the major branches of science. A scientific theory in one branch of science must hold true in all of the other branches of science. For example, the atomic theory of matter, that all matter is made up of atoms, was discovered using physics, but the chemicals used in chemistry, the living tissue used in biology, the rocks studied in geology, and the planets studied in astronomy are all made up of atoms. The atomic theory of matter holds in every area of science.

Sometimes scientists come up with a theory that is wrong. The discovery of an exception to a scientific theory is a major event, and a scientist can become famous by discovering an exception to a rule. Einstein became famous for his theory of relativity, which found an exception to Isaac Newton's laws of motion. Newton's theory, which had been accepted for hundreds of years, had to be changed, and has been changed.

Here is a list of some of the major theories of modern science. These theories have been tested thousands of times, and no exception has been found.

[[Marin-Epagnier]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Neuchâtel, 2009 disestablishments in Europe, 2000s disestablishments in Switzerland

Marin-Epagnier is a former municipality in the district of Neuchâtel in the Swiss canton of Neuchâtel. In 1888, the formerly independent municipality merged with Epagnier and Marin to form Marin-Epagnier. On 1 January 2009, the former municipalities of Marin-Epagnier and Thielle-Wavre joined together and became the new municipality of La Tène.

It lies at the northeastern tip of Lake Neuchâtel close to Biel, at the boundary between French- and German-speaking regions, and at a knot of highways.

The Iron Age archaeological site of La Tène is within Marin-Epagnier's communal boundaries. (See also La Tène culture.) La Tène is a village at the eastern end of the Lake Neuchâtel (Lac de Neuchâtel), a lake in Switzerland. La Tène has a sandy beach, unique in Switzerland.

[[Magdalenenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history

Magdalenenberg is the name for a tumulus grave. It dates from the Iron Age. It lies at the southwestern tip of the Black Forest, in Germany. The nobleman who is buried there was part of the Hallstatt culture. With a volume of 33.000 cubic metres it is the biggest grave from that time in Central Europe.

In his first-hand account of the Gallic Wars (Commentarii de Bello Gallico), Julius Caesar observes that the Gallic people have a moon- based calendar, and that the big event for them was what astronomers now call the Lunar Standstill, which occurs every 18.6 years. Lunar Standstills are marked in several ancient cultures (including sites in Colorado and Ohio), usually by standing stones that indicate the point where the moon seems to rise and set in the same place, instead of rising in one place and appearing to move across the sky to set in another. Now a German scholar, Dr Allard Mees, a researcher at the Römisch-Germanischen Zentralmuseum in Mainz, has discovered evidence to back Caesar’s observation: a huge royal tomb that functions as a lunar calendar and that preserves a map of the sky at Midsummer 618 BC, the presumed date of the burial.

Dr Mees said that Magdalenenberg was ‘the earliest and most complete example of a Celtic calendar focused on the moon’, and that following Caesar’s conquest of Gaul, ‘Gallic culture was destroyed and these types of calendar were completely forgotten in Europe, to be replaced by the Roman sun-based calendar’.

[[Sacred Cenote]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Mexico, Maya civilization, Yucatán (state)

Sacred Cenote (Well of Sacrifice) is a well known cenote at the Maya site of Chichen Itza. One can access it by a 900 foot paved corridor that leads from the Great Plaza. The Sacred Cenote was used for human sacrifices to the rain god Chaac in periods of drought.

[[Cenote]]

CATEGORIES: Geology, Physical geography, Mexico

A cenote is a type of sinkhole that contains groundwater. It is typical in the Mexican Yucatán Peninsula and some nearby Caribbean islands. The term comes from a word used by the lowland Yucatec Maya to refer to any location where groundwater can be got at. 

[[Monkton, Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Kent

Monkton is an English village on the Canterbury-Ramsgate road. It is at the southwestern edge of the Isle of Thanet, Kent near St Nicholas at Wade and Minster-in-Thanet. The church there is dedicated to Mary Magdalene. Inside the Church is a plaque, commemorating a local soldier, Euncie Rochelle, who died in the Iraq war. Monkton is no longer thought of as a village in its own right and is usually assumed to be part of neighbouring village Minster-in-Thanet.

In the November of 2007, the village exploded, with the remains afterwards being burnt down, with firefighters attempting to put out the blaze, but having so few people and being so far away from any other main towns, the thirty firefighters were unable to reach it in time. However, fortunately, all of Monkton's twenty people were evacuated into safety to nearby Minster. However, Minster was reported to have complained about the overcrowding caused by this and threw out the newcomers, expecting them to go back to the destroyed settlement. Unfortunately for the hamlet, Monkton's largest building, a single storey house, was also lost, and therefore it is thought to take a long time before the people of Monkton are able to resettle in a new place, or whether they will be able to reconstruct some of their old one.

[[Electric chair]]

CATEGORIES: Capital punishment

An electric chair is a specially built chair which is used to execute condemned criminals by electrocuting (giving them a strong electric shock) them. This means that they are being killed as a punishment for a crime that they were accused of, usually murder.

An electric chair is a strong wooden chair which has electrodes (which are objects often made out of metal that conduct electricity) for running electric current through the convict's body. One electrode is placed on the convict's head, and another is placed  on the convict's right shin. When the switch is turned on, a 2,000 volt current goes through the convict. The current is to stop the heartbeat, cause unconsciousness, and cause death. Sometimes, the chair was made from the wood of the gallows which it replaced.

The electric chair is sometimes used as the very symbol of death penalty. It is also a part of Americana (that is: cultural symbols of USA) and the electric chairs of many states have ironic nicknames like Old Sparky, Yellow Mama, Gruesome Gertie, Sizzling Sally or Hot Seat. The execution itself is sometimes called "riding the lightning".

[[Santiago Bernabéu Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Madrid, Football stadiums in Spain, 1947 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Spain

The Santiago Bernabéu Stadium is a football stadium in Madrid, Spain. It is the second largest stadium in Spain after the Camp Nou. It has a capacity for 81,044 people. The stadium is called Estadio Santiago Bernabéu in Spanish.

The 1982 FIFA World Cup and the final, were held at the Santiago Bernabéu.  

[[Electrocution]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Torture, Death

Electrocution or electric shock is when electricity passes through something living. It happens when the human body gets in contact with electric current. The word "electrocution" originated as a portmanteau between electricity and execution, referring to those executed by electric chair, but has evolved to describe any fatal encounter with electricity. Nonfatal encounters are called electric shocks, or simply a "shock". 

The human body is affected by electric current (measured in Amperes). If the electric current is strong, it can stop heartbeat and cause death. High current can cause severe burns and even fry the victim alive.   In order for current to flow through a body you need a sufficiently high voltage, typically more than 50 volts AC, and the voltage generator must be able to supply enough current.  Super high voltages, such as from a small Tesla coil, supply such a small amount of current that a person feels just a tickle.  A large Tesla coil can burn and kill. 

Safety devices like a GFCI or RCD try to protect humans from any current greater than 5 to 30 mA  (0.005 to 0.03 Amps).   Human muscles are paralyzed -- you cannot move an affected arm or leg -- at currents from 10 to 20 mA; as a result a victim may be unable to let go of a wire that is shocking him. At around 20 mA breathing is difficult. At about 75mA breathing stops. At 100 mA the heart fibrillates -- death is quick. At 200 mA you get severe musculature contractions and burning.

[[Stora Enso]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Finland, Helsinki

Stora Enso is a Finnish-Swedish cellulose and paper making corporation. It is the one of the largest paper making firms in the world. It was formed by the merger of Swedish mining and forestry products company Stora and Finnish forestry products company Enso-Gutzeit Oy in 1998. 

Its head office is in Helsinki, and it has some 46,000 employees. In 2002 it was the fifth largest pulp and paper maker in money income and in 2005 it was the world's largest pulp and paper manufacturer in terms of tonnes. The Finnish State is the biggest owner in the company.

The Stora corporation originally began as a copper mine (whole name Stora Kopparbergs Bergslag (Big Copper Mountain's Mining Works)). It was founded in 1288 and it is the oldest corporation in the world. It later became also a paper and cellulose maker. Enso-Gutzeit was founded by Mr. Hans Gutzeit in a small town called Enso in Finland. It was founded in 19th century. Both companies were the largest paper and cellulose makers of both countries. It is the second largest corporation in Scandinavia after Nokia.

[[SpeechWeb]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

A SpeechWeb is a collection of SpeechWeb applications.  The collection or web of applications can be navigated using a SpeechWeb browser.

The goals of the SpeechWeb are: 

1. Providing end users with voice only interfaces to remote applications.

2. Providing software developers with a framework to build their user interfaces with.

A SpeechWeb browser is a document or program allowing a human user to interact with a SpeechWeb application.  A SpeechWeb browser can be implemented in X+V, VoiceXML, or others.  An example browser using X+V is available here https://web.archive.org/web/20080914164302/http://cs.uwindsor.ca/~speechweb/p_d_speechweb/index.xml.

A SpeechWeb application is an application that provides a special interface.  The basic idea is that not much more than natural language is used to communicate with the applications.  SpeechWeb applications also need to describe the possible input texts by publishing a  JSGF grammar.

[[Tikal]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in North America, Archaeological sites in Guatemala, Maya civilization

Tikal (or Tik’al, according to modern orthography) is the largest of the ancient ruined cities of the Maya civilization. It lies in modern day Guatemala at 17. Now it is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and a popular tourist spot.  

Tikal was one of the major cultural and population centers of the Maya civilization. The oldest monumental architecture at the site dates to the 4th century BC.  The best time of Tikal was during the Classic Period, from 200 AD to 900 AD. In this period, Tikal was in charge of the Maya region politically, economically, and militarily.  This is because it was linked with areas throughout Mesoamerica, such as central Mexican, the center of Teotihuacan.  After the end of the Late Classic Period, no new major monuments were built.  Some palaces were burned and the population declined. The site was abandoned by the end of the 10th century.

[[Resistance]]

Resistance could mean:

[[Bard]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history

The bard probably belonged to a social class in Celtic Europe. Bards were poets or singers and were most likely were in the service of Celtic nobility. They were probably employed to tell about how good their master (the nobleman) was or to sing about what he did. Today, it is not quite clear what the difference was from a druid. Early Roman scolars used the word vates to refer to all of them, which has been translated as "prophet" or "soothsayer". It is also a common school in the North East Pacific West.

[[Operation]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Operation may refer to:

[[Mausoleum]]

CATEGORIES: Burial monuments and structures

A mausoleum is a building used to store the remains of people who have died. Instead of being buried in soil, like in a cemetery, they are placed in chambers behind walls, or in a vault under the floor. The word came from the name of an ancient king.

[[Venus figurines]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history, Ceramics

Possibly among the earliest traces of art are Venus figurines. These are figurines that show women. Most often the women are shown as being pregnant, with breasts well visible. The figurines occur from Western Europeto Siberia. Most are about 30.000 years old; Two figurimes have been found that are much older, the Venus of Tan-Tan has been dated to 500.000 to 300.000 years ago. It was found in Morocco. The Venus of Berekhat Ram was found on the Golan Heights. It has been dated to 300.000 to 200.000 years ago. It may be the earliest thing that shows the human form. 

Different kind of stone, bones and ivory were used to make the figurines. Some are also made of clay which was then burned in a fire. This is one of the earliest known traces of the use of ceramics.

Today it is not known what the figurines meant for the people who made them. There are two basic interpretations:

Scientists have excluded that they were linked to the fertility of fields, because agriculture had not yet been discovered.

The two figurines that are older may have mostly formed by natural processes. The Venus of Tan-Tan was covered with a substance that could have been some kind of paint. It contained traces of Iron and Manganese. The figurine of Berekhat Ram  shows traces that someone worked on it with a tool. A study done in 1997 states that this could not have been done by nature alone

[[Venus of Tan-Tan]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history

The Venus of Tan-Tan is a venus figurine. It was found in Morocco. It has been dated to be between 300.000 and 500.000 years old. Unlike the other venus figurines, it appears neither male nor female.

[[Venus of Berekhat Ram]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history, Golan Heights, Sculptures

The Venus of Berekhat Ram is a stone that was found on the Golan Heights in 1981. Scientists have proposed to classify it as a Venus figurine, because there are traces it was worked on with a stone tool. The things that have been worked can clearly be told apart from the natural stone. It is therefore agreed that the pebble has been modified by human action, even though it bears little resemblance to the much later "Venus figurines" of about 30.000 years ago.

[[List of Baptists]]

CATEGORIES: Baptists, Lists of people

This is a list of Baptists. This list is not complete.

[[Joy]]

Joy is an emotion of great happiness. 

Joy can also be interpreted as a person's name.

Joy may also refer to:

[[Grace]]

Grace could mean:

in music:

A song:

in religion:

Grace may also be:

[[Chattanooga, Tennessee]]

CATEGORIES: Chattanooga, Tennessee, County seats in Tennessee

Chattanooga is the fourth-largest city in Tennessee, a state in the United States of America. Cities larger than it are Memphis - the largest; Nashville - the capital of the state; and Knoxville. Chattanooga is in the southeast of Tennessee.

The first people to live in the Chattanooga area were Native American Indians with sites dating back to the Upper Paleolithic period.

[[Greenville, South Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Greenville, South Carolina, County seats in South Carolina, 1831 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in South Carolina

Greenville is a city in South Carolina, United States. Bob Jones University is in Greenville. Greenville is in the Blue Ridge region of the state and is the county seat of Greenville County. As of 2010, it had an urban population of 400,492.

[[Jonathan Edwards]]

Jonathan Edwards can mean:

[[Jonathan Edwards (theologian)]]

CATEGORIES: 1703 births, 1758 deaths, American Calvinists, American theologians, Christian religious leaders, Missionaries, People from Massachusetts

Jonathan Edwards (October 5, 1703 – March 22, 1758) was a colonial American preacher, theologian, and missionary to Native Americans.  He was one of the most important people in the Great Awakening, a religious movement in the United States.  He preached a sermon called "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God".

[[Prostate cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Male reproductive system, Cancer

Prostate cancer is a disease in which cancer develops in the prostate, a gland in the male reproductive system. It is often treated with prostatectomy, radiotherapy, or hormonal therapy.

Aggressive prostate cancer is now known to have a genetic basis. Men with gene BRCA2 are more likely to get the cancer, and more likely it will be in its most aggressive form.

[[John Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American lawyers, 2004 United States presidential candidates, American Methodists, Politicians from Raleigh, North Carolina, Politicians from South Carolina, United States senators from North Carolina, US Democratic Party politicians, Businesspeople from South Carolina, Businesspeople from North Carolina, Writers from Raleigh, North Carolina, Writers from South Carolina

Johnny Reid "John" Edwards (born June 10, 1953) is an American politician. He served one term as U.S. Senator from North Carolina.

[[Fuller Theological Seminary]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in California, Christian colleges and universities in the United States, Pasadena, California, Seminaries, 1947 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in California

The Fuller Theological Seminary is in Pasadena, California. It is one of North America's largest seminaries. The Seminary has over 4,300 students from over 67 countries and 108 denominations.

[[Bachelor of Divinity]]

CATEGORIES: Academic degrees, Christian theology

In Western Christian theology, a Bachelor of Divinity (BD or BDiv) is usually an undergraduate academic degree given for courses taken in the study of divinity. At some institutions, the BD is a higher degree than the Bachelor of Arts. 

[[Freespire]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions

Freespire is a Linux distribution made with parts from Ubuntu. It was made to make using free software easy, while giving the choice to use non-free (not open source) parts. These parts might be programs, drivers, or codecs. Linspire, a commercial Linux distribution, is made from Freespire.

[[Spiritual gift]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

In Christianity, the spiritual gifts are gifts given to Christians. Each Christian has his or her own gift (or gifts). They are talked about in the New Testament, mainly in First Corinthians 12, Romans 12, and Ephesians 4. Some believe that they only worked in early Christianity.

[[Sanctification]]

CATEGORIES: Christian terminology, Christian theology

The word sanctification refers to the act of making holy or setting apart as special. The word is used five times in the Authorized Version of the New Testament (1 Corinthians 1:30, 1 Thessalonians 4:3,1 Thessalonians 4:4, 2 Thessalonians 2:13, and 1 Peter 1:2).

To sanctify means “to set apart for special use or purpose,” and “to make holy or sacred,” and etymologically from the Latin verb 'sanctificare' which in turn is from sanctus “holy” and facere “to make.”

When an object or place is made holy, usually a ceremony is performed. Then people see that it is a special object or place and treat it with respect.  A person may also be "set apart for special purpose", as when a priest or pastor is ordained.  

Sanctification can also refer to the process by which a person becomes a good moral person, or  someone with a close relationship to God.  This may not include any ceremony.  Persons who achieve this holiness are sometimes called Saints.  Some churches have a list of saints who have been recognized as having been especially holy persons.   

Generally in Protestant teaching, all Christians are considered saints.  All are expected to become people who are close to God and who live a life like that which Jesus taught.  Reading the Bible, prayer, worshiping God and Jesus and telling others about their faith are important in becoming sanctified. 

[[Glossolalia]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics, Theology, Pentecostalism

Glossolalia, or speaking in tongues, is speaking rapid speech-like syllables which cannot be understood. In some cases it is part of religious practice. Some consider it as a part of a sacred language. It is a common practice amongst Pentecostal and Charismatic Christianity.

[[Christian hedonism]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

Christian hedonism is a controversial Christian doctrine in some evangelical churches, partly those of the Reformed tradition. This term was made by Baptist pastor John Piper in his 1986 book Desiring God. Piper talks about this philosophy of the Christian life as "God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him."

[[Yucatec language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of North America, Maya civilization

Yucatec Maya ("Maaya T'aan" in the revised orthography of the Academia de Lenguas Mayas de Guatemala) is a Mayan language spoken in the Yucatán Peninsula. It is also spoken in northern Belize and parts of Guatemala. To native speakers, it is known only as Maya - "Yucatec" is a label linguists use to distinguish it from other Mayan languages (such as K'iche' and Itza' Maya).

In the Mexican states of Yucatán, northern Campeche and Quintana Roo, Maya remains many speakers' first language today, with approximately 800,000 speakers.

[[Uxmal]]

CATEGORIES: Maya civilization, Archaeological sites in Mexico, Yucatán (state)

Uxmal is a large pre-Columbian city. The ruins are in Mexico today, in the state of Yucatán. According to the records of the Maya, the city was built around the year 500 AD. According to current research, about 25.000 people lived there. Most of the buildings that can be seen today were built between 700 and 1100. After 1200, there seems to be no new construction. The ruling family moved their capital elsewhere, and the population of the city declined. 

According to the documents of the Spanish conquerors, the city still had some importance in the 1550s. It was probably abandoned soon afterwards, as the Spanish built no city nearby.

[[Tayasal]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Guatemala, Maya civilization

Tayasal is a pre-Columbian Maya archaeological site from the Postclassic period.  The site is in the southern Maya lowlands on a small island in Lake Petén Itzá. This island is now part of the Department of Petén in northern Guatemala.  Tayasal was the capital of one of the last independent Maya polities to be conquered by the Spanish conquistadores and colonizers, along with Zacpeten (the capital of the Ko'woj Maya) and Eixequil (the Yalnain capital), in 1697.  

As an archaeological site, it was heavily damaged by the Spanish after its fall.  The capital city of the modern Petén department, Flores, has been built over the island and the nearby shores of the lake.  

The Itza left the Yucatán region in the 13th century and built the city later known as Tayasal as their capital. They called it Noh Petén, or literally "City Island". It was also called Tah Itzá, or Place of the Itzá.

In 1541, Hernán Cortés came to the island, on route to Honduras, but needed to move on and did not try to conquer it due to its very good defensive position. 

The Spanish were not able to conquer the island until 1697, after several attempts, that begun in 1629, when they marched in, from Corozal in Belize, Yucatán and Alta Verapaz, attacked with boats, and destroyed it. Many Itzá people hid in the jungle for years. The structures of Noh Petén were turned into the Roman Catholic Church and other buildings in the city of Flores. 

[[Archaeological site]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites

An archaeological site is a place where physical remains of the past survive. The archaeologists working there will carefully record what they find. They may also change the site so that what has been found can be preserved better.

The site will have trenches so that people can excavate better. To start the excavation, the topsoil will be removed. Special tools like pickaxes and mattocks are used to break up and remove very hard compacted soil. Shovels and spades are used to clear away bulk debris. Other hand tools used in bulk cleanup work are hoes, rakes, forks, and the wheelbarrow to cart it away.

[[Copán]]

CATEGORIES: History of Honduras, Maya civilization

Copán was a Maya city. Today, the ruins are in Honduras, near the border to Guatemala. The kingdom of Copan flourished from the 5th to the 9th century. The people would hire slaves to build houses. If they hired 80 - 100 workers it would usually take them around 2-3 months to finish it

[[Stephenie Meyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Writers from Hartford, Connecticut, Writers from Phoenix, Arizona

Stephenie Meyer (born December 24, 1973 in Hartford, Connecticut) is an American author. She was raised in Phoenix, Arizona. She is the author of the Twilight series. The Host, Meyer's first adult novel, was released on May 6, 2008.

[[Flora Thompson]]

CATEGORIES: 1876 births, 1947 deaths, English novelists, English poets

Flora Jane Thompson (5 December 1876 – 21 May 1947) was an English novelist and poet that was famous for her semi-autobiographical trilogy about the English countryside, Lark Rise to Candleford.

She was born in Juniper Hill, a hamlet in north-east Oxfordshire. She was the eldest of six children of the stonemason Albert and the nursemaid Emma Timms. In her books her favourite brother, Edwin, is mentioned as important companion during her childhood. He was killed near Ypres in 1916. Flora was educated in the village Cottisford and worked in various post offices in southern England. The first of these was Fringford, a village about four miles north-east of Bicester. Flora started work here in 1891, as assistant to the postmistress, Mrs. Kezia Whitton. Among other post offices where Flora worked was that at Grayshott, in Hampshire, and she later moved to Bournemouth. In 1903 she married John William Thompson, with whom she had two sons and a daughter.

Flora benefited from good access to books when the public library opened in Winton, in 1907. Not long after, in 1911, she won an essay competition in The Ladies Companion for a 300-word essay on Jane Austen. She later wrote extensively, publishing short stories and magazine and newspaper articles. She was a keen self-taught naturalist and many of her nature articles were anthologised in 1986.

Her most famous works are the Lark Rise to Candleford trilogy, which she sent as essays to Oxford University Press in 1938 and which were published soon after. The books are a, if autobiographical, but fictionalised social history of rural English life in the late 19th and early 20th century and are now considered minor classics.

Flora Thompson died in 1947 in Brixham, Devon and is buried at Longcross Cemetery, Dartmouth, Devon.

[[ClamWin]]

CATEGORIES: Free software

ClamWin Free Antivirus is a free, open source antivirus software for Microsoft Windows. It provides a graphical user interface to the ClamAV engine.

ClamWin is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License and can be downloaded from the official website for free.

[[Marco van Basten]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Dutch football managers, Dutch footballers, Sportspeople from Utrecht (city), Eredivisie managers

Marcel "Marco" van Basten (born October 31, 1964 in Utrecht, Netherlands) is a former Dutch footballer. He was most recently the manager of the Netherlands national football team. He had to quit playing football early because of an injury that kept him from playing for more than a year.

Van Basten was known for his strength on the ball, his tactical awareness and spectacular strikes and volleys. He is regarded as one of the greatest footballers of all time.

[[Masonry]]

CATEGORIES: Construction

Masonry is the building of structures from individual units laid in and bound together by mortar. The term "masonry" can also refer to the units themselves.

The common materials of masonry construction are brick, stone such as marble, granite, travertine, limestone; concrete block, glass block, and tile. Masonry is generally a highly durable form of construction.

[[Lark Rise to Candleford]]

CATEGORIES: English novels, Fiction set in the past, Oxfordshire, Series of books

Lark Rise to Candleford  is a trilogy of semi-autobiographical novels set in the English countryside in the late 19th century. They were written by Flora Thompson, and first published in that form in 1945. The trilogy includes the previously published stories Lark Rise (1939), Over to Candleford (1941) and Candleford Green (1943).

The stories relate to three communities, a hamlet, the nearby village and the nearest town in Oxfordshire, England. The stories are loosely based around Flora's childhood experiences. The books describe village life through the seasons of the year.

[[Lark Rise to Candleford (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 British television series debuts, 2011 British television series endings, 2000s British television series, 2010s British television series, BBC Television programmes, British drama television series, Oxfordshire, Period television series

Lark Rise to Candleford is a British television costume drama series, adapted by the BBC from Flora Thompson's trilogy of semi-autobiographical novels about the English countryside. The first episode aired on 13 January 2008 on BBC One and BBC HD. Its cast includes actors from other late 2007 and early 2008 BBC costume dramas such as Sense and Sensibility and Cranford.

The story set in Oxfordshire. It is about Laura Timmins, a teenage girl from the village of Lark Rise who is sent by her parents to work as an assistant at the post office in the nearby town of Candleford.  The post office is run by Miss Dorcas Lane, who is a cousin of Laura's mother.  Laura's father, the stonemason Robert Timmins, at first misses her but later becomes proud of her for doing well in her new job.  Laura's friend Alf Arless is in love with her, but, as Laura becomes used to life in Candleford, he realises that she will never return his feelings.

The other post office workers are the postman, Thomas Brown, a very religious man who tries not to get involved in any kind of mischief or fun; the maid Zillah, who has been with Miss Lane for many years and considers herself in charge of the household; and Mrs Macey, the senior assistant who decides to leave when other people find out that her husband has been in prison.

A second series began in January 2009, introducing some new characters. These include a new maid, Minnie, and a rich hotel-owner, James Dowland, who falls in love with Dorcas Lane.

In the end, the series had a four season run. The BBC stopped a fifth season, because the team felt that after four seasons, the time was right to bring in new dramas. It was said they hoped viewers would love the new programmes in the same way.  The last episode on BBC was in early 2011.

[[Cinnabar]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals, Ores

Cinnabar is a mineral. It is the main ore of mercury and is made up of the chemical mercuric sulphide (HgS). Cinnabar exists in two crystal forms. Red cinnabar is used for the pigment vermilion. It is poisonous, and may go black with age. The other crystal form is black, and does not react chemically to anything except strong acids. Cinnabar has a Mohs hardness of 2-2.5. 

Cinnabar has been mined since the Neolithic age. It is a cool metal.

[[Rattlesnake]]

CATEGORIES: Vipers

The rattlesnake is a kind of snake, a reptile. About 50 species of rattlesnakes are known: they are a kind of pit viper. 

There are two groups of rattlesnakes: the genera Crotalus and Sistrurus. All  have a venomous bite, and some are much more dangerous than others. Pit vipers  have a set of heat-sensing "pits" on their heads which help them find prey and move towards it, even in the dark.

The name rattlesnake is used because they have a special tail with several parts on the end that can make a loud bzzzz sound, or rattle. This defends them against predators and large animals. It acts as a warning signal. 

Rattlesnakes are native to the Americas from southwest Canada to central Argentina. They usually live in dry areas.  They eat small animals such as birds and rodents.

When they are young, many are eaten by birds. When they are adult, they have a particular enemy: the common kingsnake, Lampropeltis getula, a colubrid snake.

[[12 Rounds (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, American movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Renny Harlin

12 Rounds is a 2009 movie set to be directed by Renny Harlin and produced by WWE Films. Casting is currently taking place, but professional wrestler John Cena is set to star with Steve Harris, Aidan Gillen, and Brian J. White. Filming has been scheduled to take place in New Orleans between February 25 and May 12, 2008.

[[Miami Seaquarium]]

CATEGORIES: Aquariums, Buildings and structures in Miami, Florida, 1955 establishments in the United States, 1950s establishments in Florida

The Miami Seaquarium is an aquarium on Virginia Key, in Miami, Florida. The park has animals such as dolphins, whales, snakes, crocodiles, alligators, sharks, fish, parrots, turtles or sea turtles, etc. It has been open since 1955.

The main attraction is Lolita, the world's oldest captive orca. She is now the park's only orca. Animal rights activists have long argued that the tank does not meet federal minimum requirements (Animal Welfare Act). The USDA has recently made statements in support of the activists' argument. However, Lolita is a special case.

[[Winter solstice]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical phenomena

The winter solstice is the time when the sun has the biggest distance to the Tropic of Cancer. After this, the sun is going to move to back in the direction of the equator.

The Earth revolves around the Sun. The sunlight reaches the Earth at an angle. On each day of the year, the sun will be perpendicular at a given latitude. At the start of spring and at the start of autumn it passes over the equator. On the June Solstice it is over the Tropic of Cancer, at 23.5 degrees north. In the Northern Hemisphere this is the longest day of the year, which has the shortest night and is called the Summer Solstice. In the Southern Hemisphere this is the shortest day of the year, which has the longest night and is called the Winter Solstice. On the December Solstice it is over the Tropic of Capricorn, at 23.5 degrees south. In the Southern Hemisphere this is the longest day of the year, which has the shortest night and is called the Summer Solstice. In the Northern Hemisphere this is the shortest day of the year, which has the longest night and is called the Winter Solstice.

For the northern hemisphere, the Winter solstice is around 21 December. This means that the sun is at the southern tropic. For the southern Hemisphere, the winter solstice is around 21 June. This means that the sun is at the northern tropic.

The word solstice comes from Latin Sol (sun) and sistere (to not move), winter solstice meaning Sun standstill in winter.

The earth prone and moves in an elliptic way around the sun. Because of this, the point from where the sun is shining moves between the Tropic of Capricorn and the Tropic of Cancer.

The winter solstice is celebrated around 21 December since 1582, when Pope Gregory XIII introduced the Gregorian calendar.

[[Sergio Castillo]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2010 deaths, Chilean sculptors

Sergio Castillo (13 May 1925 – 19 August 2010 in Santiago, Chile) was a sculptor.

He began as an architect. In 1948 he travelled to Paris and took painting courses. After returning to Chile he attended the Faculty of Arts of the University of Chile, where he studied with two known teachers, Lily Garafulic and Marta Colvin. In 1956 he studied at the Art Student League of New York. From 1967 he taught at the University of Chile. He lived and worked for many years at San Lorenzo del Escorial, Spain. In 1985 he joined the faculty of Boston University, in the US. He built several large pieces on the campus of Boston University.

He won the National Award in Art (1997). “50 años creando mis animales en acero” (50 years making my steel animals) is his recent exposition, including things that look a little like animals.

[[Summer solstice]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical phenomena

The summer solstice is when the Sun is at its highest point in the sky during a year. The solstice itself is one moment, but many use the word to mean the day when the solstice happens. The summer solstice does not always happen on exactly the same day.

The word solstice comes from Latin and means that "the Sun stands still".  

For the northern hemisphere, the summer solstice is around 21 June (20, 21 or 22 of June). This means that the sun is at the northern tropic. For the southern hemisphere, the summer solstice is around 21 December. This means that the sun is at the southern tropic.

[[Bearded dragon]]

CATEGORIES: Reptiles of Australia, Lizards

Bearded dragons are agamid lizards in the genus Pogona.

The central bearded dragon is the common name for Pogona vitticeps, which lives in dry areas of Australia The name "bearded dragon" refers to the fringes around and under the head. The underside of the throat turns black if they are stressed or see a potential rival.

[[Mensa International]]

CATEGORIES: Intelligence, Non-profit organizations

Mensa International (or just Mensa) is the largest, oldest and most famous high-IQ group of people in the world. The non-profit organization only has members with high IQs. They must score at the 98th percentile or higher on a standardized, supervised intelligence test. In many cases the IQ you have to have to join is 130.

[[Mensa]]

Mensa, meaning table in Latin, could mean:

When a plural exists, it is often Mensae, such as Cydonia Mensae.

[[Intertel]]

CATEGORIES: Intelligence

Intertel is the second oldest and third largest high IQ society. Members must score in the top one percentile on a standardized, supervised IQ test.

The name was originally "The International Legion of Intelligence" and members are called ILIans.

[[Coweta (disambiguation)]]

Coweta can mean:

[[Dow Jones Industrial Average]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 establishments in the United States

The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJI, also called the DJIA, Dow 30, The Dow Jones or The Dow) is a stock market index. It was created by Charles Dow, who worked for the Wall Street Journal newspaper and later made a new company named Dow Jones & Company.

The stock prices of 30 companies are used to calculate the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The 30 companies are picked by experts who work for Dow Jones. These people pick companies so that the calculated number will represent the general economy of the United States. The rules to pick companies say that all the companies must be from the USA. The rules also say the companies' stocks must be traded on either the NYSE or the Nasdaq Exchange. 

In the past the companies were all heavy industries companies and made things like steel, oil, autos, and appliances. Now the DJIA has many different kinds of companies including some that offer products and services like medicine or software.

Since 2020, these are the companies that currently make up the Dow Jones:

For a list of companies that have once been a part on the Dow Jones but are no longer part of it today, see this list.

[[Old Major (Animal Farm)]]

CATEGORIES: Animal Farm characters, Fictional pigs

Old Major is a character in the book Animal Farm.  He is an award winning elderly Middle White boar. He is twelve years of age, and had 400 piglets. Old Major has a wise and benevolent look but his tushes are never cut. He had given inspiration to the other pigs about the fair rules on the farm once the farmers were gone, before Old Major died. Old Major is based on Marx and Lenin of the Russian Revolution, whose ideas changed into Communism.

[[Yanomami]]

CATEGORIES: South American people

The Yanomami (also spelled Yąnomamö or Yanomama) is a local tribe living in southern Venezuela (Amazonas department) and northern Brazil (Amazonas state and Roraima). There are approximately 35,000 Yanomami people who live in some 200–250 villages. They live in shabonos, which are villages made with wood, straw and palm leaves.

They are also called Yanomamo and Yanam.

The word "Yanomami" means "human being".

The Yanomami tribe have lived in the rain forests of South America for centuries.

They live in small groups, and shelter in one huge house and it is called a Yanos which can hold up to 250 Yanomami people. Each of the sections has its own language.

The Yanomami tribe is also known as the Yanomamo. There is an average of 20,000 Yanomami. 

About 12,000 of them are Yanomamo. They eat plantains which is the most important food. The Yanomami love to hunt. Most of the child     

raising is done by the females of the family. Yanomami tribe villages sometimes have different languages so people from one may not understand the others. Rituals are a very important part of being a Yanomami. There are about 200-250 Yanomami villages in the area between the tropic of cancer to Capricorn. 

Category:South American peoplejsjakakajjs

[[Glamis Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in Scotland, Angus

Glamis Castle is one of the most famous castles in the United Kingdom. It is near the village of Glamis, in Angus, Scotland. It is the home of the Earl and Countess of Strathmore and Kinghorne. Glamis Castle was the childhood home of Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, best known as the Queen Mother. Her daughter, Princess Margaret, was born there. A picture of the castle is featured on the Royal Bank of Scotland ten pound note. 

Parts of the castle and its gardens are open to the public. There is also a tea room for visitors.

There are many famous stories and legends about Glamis Castle. It is said to have more "dark secrets" than any other home in Scotland.

[[Oasis]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts

In geography, an oasis is an isolated place in the desert where there is vegetation. Most often, this occurs around a source of water. Oases provide a habitat for animals and are used as a source of water for humans.

The knowledge of the location of oases has been important for trade and transportation routes in desert areas. Caravans must travel via oases so that supplies of water and food can be refilled. Thus, political or military control of an oasis has in many cases meant control of trade on a particular route. For example, the oases of Awjila, Ghadames and Kufra, in modern-day Libya, have at various times been vital to both North-South and East-West trade in the Sahara desert. The word oasis came into English via Greek ὄασις , which was borrowed from Egyptian wḥ3t or Demotic wḥỉ. It was not borrowed from Coptic ouaḥe (*/waħe/), as is sometimes suggested; the Greek word is attested several centuries before Coptic existed as a written language.

[[Ancient Near East]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history

The Ancient Near East is the name given to early civilizations within a region roughly corresponding to the modern Middle East: Mesopotamia (modern Iraq and Syria), Persia (modern Iran), Anatolia (modern Turkey), the Levant (modern Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Palestine, and Jordan), and Ancient Egypt, from the rise of Sumer in the 4th millennium BCE until the region's conquest by Alexander the Great in the 4th century BCE, or covering both the Bronze Age and the Iron Age in the region. As such, it is a term widely used in the fields of Near Eastern archaeology, ancient history and Egyptology.

Some would exclude Egypt from the ancient Near East as a geographically and culturally distinct area. However, because of Egypt's intimate involvement with the region, especially from the 2nd millennium BCE, this exclusion is rare.

The ancient Near East is considered the cradle of civilization. It was the first to practice intensive year-round agriculture; it gave the rest of the world the first writing system, invented the potter's wheel and then the vehicular- and mill wheel, created the first centralized governments, law codes and empires, as well as introducing social stratification, slavery and organized warfare, and it laid the foundation for the fields of astronomy and mathematics.

[[Boxer (Animal Farm)]]

CATEGORIES: Animal Farm characters, Fictional animals

Boxer is a character from the book Animal Farm by George Orwell.  He is a horse, and is nearly eighteen hands high. In the book he is as strong as two horses put together. He has a white stripe down his nose, and that gives him a strange appearance. But still he was respected for his great power in work and his good character. He works as a cart-horse, as does Clover. Benjamin likes him in secret. 

In the book Boxer falls into the quarry when he was pulling a cart full of rock and is sent to a veterinarian on another farm by Napoleon. Squealer, Napoleon's spokesman, then claims he died peacefully, but Benjamin realises he has actually gone to the knacker's (slang for slaughterhouse, where animals are killed). Boxer was the most hard-working animal in the farm and was respected by all. When Boxer tried to support Snowball against Squealer, Napoleon tries to attack Boxer with his dogs but Boxer easily crushes the dog. Boxer is an ideal character showing loyalty along with his great hard work.  

His slogans are: 

He is a very loyal, caring character, but he is flawed in his lack of intelligence and does not see the real truth behind situations.

[[Benjamin (Animal Farm)]]

CATEGORIES: Animal Farm characters

In the fictional story Animal Farm, Benjamin is the oldest animal on Manor Farm, and very cool-tempered. He seldom speaks, except to make some cynical remark. He is the only animal on the farm that never laughs, saying that there was nothing to laugh at when asked about it. Without admitting it, Benjamin is devoted to Boxer, grazing with him in a small padlock near the orchard on Sundays.  He was not changed by the rebellion that took place towards the beginning of the novel.

[[Atari 2600]]

CATEGORIES: Video game consoles, Atari 2600

The Atari 2600 is a video game console released in the United States in October 1977. The Atari 2600 was originally called the Atari Video Computer System (or VCS). The Atari 2600 uses game cartridges which can be swapped in and out to change games, which was a new idea in video games at the time. Over 30 million Atari 2600 consoles were sold.

[[Master System]]

CATEGORIES: Sega video game consoles

The Sega Master System (SMS) is a video game console made in 1986. It was not very popular in North America and Japan but was very popular in Brazil. One of the most popular game of the Sega Master System was Sonic the Hedgehog.

2015, the Master System was still in production in Brazil by Tectoy. This would make it the world's longest-lived console.

[[Remote control]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics

A remote control is a device used to issue commands (controlling it) from a distance to televisions, DVD players, doorbells  and so on. 

A remote controller does not have a wire and can be held by hand. It has buttons for volume, changing television channels and more.

Infrared or radio signals are used to communicate with the devices. Batteries make remote controls and controllers work. Mostly AAA, AA or coin battery size batteries are used.

[[Spacewar!]]

CATEGORIES: Arcade games

Spacewar! is one of the first known video games. It was released in 1962. It was made by Steve Russell and others. In this game, the player has to shoot the other spaceships while flying around a star. The ships shoot missiles (rockets) which were unaffected (nothing happened) by the gravity. Each ship had only a few missiles and only a little bit of fuel.explode.

[[Giotto di Bondone]]

CATEGORIES: 1267 births, 1337 deaths, 13th century Italian painters, Italian architects, People from Florence, 14th century Italian painters

Giotto di Bondone (c.1267–January 8 1337), usually known as Giotto, was an Italian painter and architect from Florence. He is generally thought of as the first in a line of great artists of the Italian Renaissance.

Giovanni Villani, who lived at the same time as Giotto, wrote that he was the king of painters, who drew all his figures as if they were alive. Villani says that, because he was so clever, the city of Florence gave him a salary.

In the 16th century, the biographer Giorgio Vasari says that Giotto changed painting from the Byzantine style of other artists of his day, and brought to life the great art of painting as it was made by the later Renaissance painters like Leonardo da Vinci. This was because Giotto drew his figures from life, rather than copying the style them from old well-known pictures in the way that the Byzantine artists like Cimabue and Duccio did.

Giotto's greatest work is the decoration of the Scrovegni Chapel in Padua, finished around 1305. The building is sometimes called the "Arena Chapel" because it is on the site of an Ancient Roman arena. This fresco series shows the life of the Virgin and the life of Christ. It is thought of as one of the greatest masterpieces of the Early Renaissance.

Although Vasari wrote about Giotto's life, it is not known how many of the stories are true, because Vasari was writing more than 200 years after Giotto died. Only two things are known for certain. It is known that in 1334 Giotto was chosen by the "commune" (town council) of Florence to design the bell tower next to Florence Cathedral which was being built at that time. It is also known for certain that Giotto painted the "Arena Chapel". But no-one can be certain where he was born, who his teacher was, what he looked like, whether he really painted the famous frescos at Assisi or where he was buried when he died.

[[Pliny the Younger]]

CATEGORIES: 60s births, 113 deaths, Lawyers, Ancient Roman writers, People from Como

Gaius or Caius Plinius Caecilius Secundus, born Gaius or Caius Plinius Caecilius (61/63 in Como - ca. 113), better known as Pliny the Younger, was a lawyer, a remarkable writer, an author, and natural philosopher of Ancient Rome. Pliny's uncle, Pliny the Elder, helped raise and educate him and they were both witnesses to the eruption of Vesuvius on August 24th, 79 AD.

[[Moura Photovoltaic Power Station]]

CATEGORIES: Solar power plants, Buildings and structures in Portugal

The Moura Photovoltaic Power Station is in the municipality of Moura, in the interior region of Alentejo, Portugal. It will have an installed capacity of 62 MWp. The first stage of construction should be finished in 2008 and the second and final stage is scheduled for 2010. Together with the construction of the power station, a solar panel factory is currently being built and there are plans for a research lab dedicated to solar energy.

The brainchild of Prof Mario Baptista Coelho, the founding partner of Renatura and a Professor of Geostrategy of Natural Resources at the Faculty of Sciences of Lisbon, Moura was the first step in proving the feasibility of Very-Large Scale Photovoltaic Plants.

Originally conceptualized in 1999, Moura is a stepping stone in addressing the CO2 issue by way of Solar Energy.

Now fully operational and grid-connected, Moura is currently operated by Acciona, which purchased the project in 2007.

Coped with Moura is the Sunflower Sustainability Project, as in integrated package of the paradigm of sustainability and Zero-Carbon Communities (www.sunflower-project.net).

[[Jérémie]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Haiti, 1756 establishments, 18th-century establishments in Haiti, 1750s establishments in North America

Jérémie (Kréyòl: Jeremi) is a city in southwest Haiti. It is the capital city of the Grand'Anse Département.

Jérémie is also called the City of Poets because of the many writers, poets, and historians that were born or live there, such as Etzer Vilaire and Émile Roumer. The father of the French writer Alexandre Dumas, père, General Thomas-Alexandre Dumas, was born at Madère, near Jérémie.

[[Three Mile Island accident]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear accidents, March events, 1979 in the United States, 20th century in Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

The Three Mile Island accident occurred on March 28th, 1979 at the Three Mile Island Nuclear Power Plant in Pennsylvania.  It was "the single most important event in the fifty-year history of nuclear power regulation in the United States".  Many people have seen the event as a turning point for the nuclear power industry in the United States. 

The Three Mile Island power station is near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The accident resulted in a partial core meltdown in Unit 2 of the nuclear power plant. Unit 2's pressurized water reactor was of 900 MWe capacity. 

The chain of events that led to the crisis at the TMI plant included several minor equipment failures that operator errors drastically compounded, resulting in a major accident. The Three Mile Island accident is largely seen as a failure of crisis management. According to one reviewer of the book:

 

Reactor operators were not trained to deal with accident conditions, and the NRC had not established effective communication with utilities. Moreover, once the accident occurred, the lines of authority proved to be ill defined. The public received conflicting reports that caused needless panic and evacuations. It was these systemic weaknesses in the regulatory system that allowed gifted people to make the mistakes they did.

Large portions of the TMI-2 reactor core melted, though the fact that a partial meltdown had occurred did not become clear until 1985. The greatest source of concern during the TMI crisis was a hydrogen bubble that formed in the top of the pressure vessel which held the core:

Although opinions differed, some reactor experts feared that over time the hydrogen bubble might become flammable or, less likely, explosive by combining with free oxygen in the vessel. If the bubble burned or exploded, it could rupture the pressure vessel and force the damaged reactor core into the containment building. The loss of the vessel would not make a breach of containment inevitable, but it would increase the risk of a disastrous release of radiation.

In the end, the Three Mile Island accident, though it "caused a grave crisis, did not produce a public health disaster". In the face of a core meltdown, the pressure vessel held and there was no breach of the  plant's containment structure. Only "tiny amounts of the most dangerous forms of volatile radiation escaped to the atmosphere". The TMI-2 cleanup took 11 years and cost about US$1 billion.

J. Samuel Walker suggests that the TMI accident incited widespread criticism of nuclear power technology, the nuclear industry, and the NRC. Critics faulted the industry and the NRC for their poor performance both before and after the accident. The international attention garnered by the crisis redoubled the determination of, and enhanced the credibility of, the anti-nuclear movement. Arguably, the United States nuclear industry has never recovered.

Walker reports that studies looking for long-term radiation effects resulting from the accident have reached conflicting conclusions, but it seems that any increase in cancers is slight enough to have occurred by chance.

[[Windscale fire]]

CATEGORIES: 1957, 1950s in the United Kingdom, 20th century in England, Building and structure fires in the United Kingdom, Nuclear accidents, October events

The Windscale fire was a fire in Britain's first nuclear reactor at Windscale (now Sellafield) on 10 October 1957. The fire spread radioactive fallout over hundreds of miles. Some of the most dangerous contamination was kept secret, and its effects only came to light years later. At the back of the reactor, ruptured fuel cartridges containing uranium are still jammed in the fire damaged core, awaiting safe removal. Official estimates are that about a hundred people died from the contamination. The cleanup cost over a hundred million pounds. The Windscale fire was the first fire in any nuclear facility.

[[Alan]]

Alan can be any of the following:

[[Tokaimura nuclear accident]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear accidents, 1999 in Asia, 1990s in Japan

The Tokaimura nuclear accident was a serious nuclear radiation accident in Japan. It took place at a uranium-reprocessing facility in Tokaimura, northeast of Tokyo, Japan, on 30 September 1999. The accident occurred in a very small fuel preparation plant operated by JCO.

The direct cause of the accident was workers putting uranyl nitrate solution containing about 16.6 kg of uranium, which exceeded the critical mass, into a precipitation tank. The tank was not designed to dissolve this type of solution and was not designed to prevent such accidents to happen. As a result, three workers were exposed to neutron radiation doses in excess of allowable limits. Two of these workers later died.

Many emergency workers and nearby residents were hospitalized and hundreds of thousands of others were forced to remain indoors for 24 hours.

[[Nuclear accidents in Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear accidents, History of Japan, Nuclear energy

Nuclear accidents in Japan include the following major cases: 

[[Nuclear energy policy]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Nuclear energy

Nuclear energy policy is a national and international policy concerning some or all aspects of nuclear energy, such as mining for nuclear fuel, extraction and processing of nuclear fuel from the ore, electricity generation by nuclear power, enriching and storing spent nuclear fuel and nuclear fuel reprocessing. Since nuclear energy and nuclear weapons technologies are closely related, military aspirations can act as a factor in energy policy decisions. The fear of nuclear proliferation influences some international nuclear energy policies.

The use of nuclear energy is limited to a relatively small number of countries in the world. As of 2007, only 31 countries, or 16% of the 191 United Nations Member States, operated nuclear power plants. Countries that rely most on nuclear energy were France (with 75% of its electricity generated by nuclear power stations), Lithuania,  Belgium, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Sweden, Ukraine and South Korea. The largest producer of nuclear capacity was the USA with 28% of worldwide capacity, followed by France (18%) and Japan (12%). In 2000, there were 438 commercial nuclear generating units throughout the world, with a total capacity of about 351 gigawatts.

Following the March 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, Germany has permanently shut down eight of its 17 reactors. Italy voted to keep their country non-nuclear. Switzerland and Spain have banned the construction of new reactors. As of 2013, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lichtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Israel, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Norway remain opposed to nuclear power. Germany and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power. Globally, more nuclear power reactors have closed than opened in recent years.

[[Nuclear accident]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear accidents

The most serious nuclear accident has been the Chernobyl disaster in 1986.  Other serious nuclear accidents include Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant accident, Three Mile Island accident, the Windscale fire, Mayak accident, and the SL-1 accident. In the period to 2007, 63 major nuclear accidents have occurred at nuclear power plants. Twenty-nine of these have occurred since the Chernobyl disaster, and 71 percent of all nuclear accidents (45 out of 63) occurred in the United States.

[[Parallel port]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Electrical connectors, Computer buses

The parallel port (also known as a printer port or Centronics port) is a type of interface found on computers for connecting various peripherals. A parallel port is a type of interface found on computers (personal and otherwise) for connecting peripherals. In computing, a parallel port is a parallel communication physical interface. It was a de facto industry standard for many years, and was finally standardized as IEEE 1284 in the late 1990s, which defined a bi-directional version of the port. 

The parallel port interface was originally known as the Parallel Printer Adapter on IBM PC-compatible computers. It was primarily designed to operate a line printer that used IBM's 8-bit extended ASCII character set to print text, but could also be used to adapt other peripherals. Graphical printers, along with a host of other devices, have been designed to communicate with the system.

In the 21st century, the parallel port interface is seeing decreasing use because of the rise of Universal Serial Bus (USB) and FireWire (IEEE 1394) devices, along with network printing using Ethernet.August 2013

[[Plastic surgery]]

CATEGORIES: Surgery

Plastic surgery is a surgery that is done to change the way a person's body looks or works. Some plastic surgeries can change both. Work can be done on someone's bones, cartilage, muscles, fat, and skin.

The two most common forms of plastic surgery are reconstruction (fixing body parts that have been damaged) and cosmetic (changing size shape or color of body parts to make them look better). An example of reconstructive plastic surgery is fixing a part of the body that has been burned. An example of cosmetic plastic surgery is a surgery called a "face-lift": pulling the skin of the face tight so that the client looks younger.

[[Dentist]]

CATEGORIES: Healthcare occupations

[[Nürburgring]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One circuits

The Nürburgring, known as simply "the Ring" by enthusiasts, is the name of a famous motorsport race track in Nürburg, Germany, built in the 1920s around the village and medieval castle of Nürburg in the Eifel, which is about 70 kilometres south of Cologne, 100 kilometres northwest of Mainz, and 120 kilometres northwest of Frankfurt.

Originally, the track featured four track configurations: the 28.265 long Gesamtstrecke ("Whole Course"), which included the 22.810 km Nordschleife ("Northern Loop"), and the 7.747 km Südschleife ("Southern Loop"). There also was a 2.281 km warm-up loop called Zielschleife ("Finish Loop") or better known as Betonschleife, around the pit area.

Between 1982 and 1983 the start-finish area was demolished to create a new GP-Strecke, and this is currently used for all major and international racing events.

[[Aung San Suu Kyi]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Asian politicians, Prime ministers, Burmese people, Nonviolence advocates, Order of Australia, Socialists, Writers, Political prisoners

Aung San Suu Kyi (born 19 June 1945 in Yangon, Burma) is a human rights activist, Nobel Peace Prize winner, and State Counsellor of Myanmar. 

Suu Kyi was not able to be president. Instead, she became the State Counsellor of Myanmar.

She brought some democracy to her country with nonviolence. 

She is the leader of the National League for Democracy in Burma and a famous prisoner. She has been under house arrest several times. Suu Kyi won the Rafto Prize and the Sakharov Prize in 1990, and the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991. In 1992, she was awarded the Jawaharlal Nehru peace prize.

She is sometimes called Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. Daw is not part of her name, but a title for older women. This name shows respect for her.

On 1 February 2021, Aung San Suu Kyi was arrested and removed from power by the military during a coup d'état. The military declared the November 2020 Myanmar general election results fraudulent. On February 3, she was charged with violating Myanmar's import laws  On February 16, Myanmar police filed a second criminal charge against her, this time for violating the country's Natural Disaster Law.

[[Ranger Uranium Mine]]

CATEGORIES: Mining, Geography of the Northern Territory, Nuclear energy

Ranger Uranium Mine is a large uranium deposit in the Kakadu National Park. The uranium is legally owned by the Australian Government, and is sold internationally. This mining, and the presence of uranium in Kakadu have come under controversy, due to the widespread publicity regarding the potential danger of nuclear power and uranium mining.

Kakadu is on the World Heritage List, both for its cultural and natural value, a rare feat because few sites are featured for both reasons.

[[Nevada Test Site]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear weapons, Nuclear energy, Nevada, 1951 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Nevada

The Nevada Test Site is an area set aside for the testing of nuclear weapons. It is looked after by the United States Department of Energy. It is in Nye County, Nevada, about 65 miles (105 km) northwest of Las Vegas. 

The site was begun on January 11, 1951. It covers an area of 1,350 square miles (3,500 km²) of desert and mountain lands. Nuclear testing at the Nevada Test Site began with a one-kiloton (4 terajoule) bomb. This was the same explosive force as a bomb using 1,000 metric tons of TNT. This bomb was dropped on Frenchman Flat on January 27, 1951. Many of the famous photos of the nuclear age were taken at the Nevada Test Site.

When testing ended in 1992, the Energy Department said that more than 300 million curies of radiation remained, making the site one of the most radioactively contaminated places in the United States. 

[[Napoleon (Animal Farm)]]

CATEGORIES: Animal Farm characters, Fictional pigs

Napoleon is a character in the book Animal Farm. Together with Snowball, he is a boar that Mr. Jones is breeding for sale at the market. Napoleon is the only Berkshire boar on Manor Farm. He is fierce-looking, large, and very stubborn, wanting things to be done his own way. Napoleon is very selfish and only cares about his own good.

[[Snowball (Animal Farm)]]

CATEGORIES: Animal Farm characters, Fictional pigs

Snowball is a character in the book Animal Farm. Like Napoleon, Snowball is a boar raised by Mr. Jones for sale. Unlike Napoleon, Snowball's plans and projects are targeted at improving the quality of Manor Farm. He is a vivacious pig, quick in speech, and a brilliant inventor.

Snowball is based on Trotsky of the Russian revolution, who was exiled by Stalin and the KGB (Stalin's secret police).

[[Anti-nuclear movement in Australia]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Australia, Nuclear energy

Australia has no nuclear power stations and the Rudd Labor government was opposed to nuclear power for Australia.  However, Australia does have a small research reactor (OPAL) in Sydney, and it does export uranium. 

Uranium mining and export and nuclear issues have often been the subject of public debate, and the anti-nuclear movement in Australia has a long history. It began with the 1972–73 debate over French nuclear testing in the Pacific, which involved several groups, and the 1976–77 debate about uranium mining in Australia. 

[[Sublingual gland]]

CATEGORIES: Glands

The sublingual glands are one of the main three pairs of salivary glands. The other two are the parotid gland and the submandibular gland. The sublingual glands are located in the front part of the bottom of the mouth, under the tongue. 

[[Anti-nuclear movement in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Energy in the United States, Nuclear energy

right|thumb|250px|Anti-nuclear protest at Harrisburg in 1979, following the Three Mile Island Accident.For many years the anti-nuclear movement in the United States succeeded in delaying or halting commitments to build some new nuclear plants. Anti-nuclear campaigns that captured national public attention in the 1970s involved the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Seabrook Station Nuclear Power Plant, Diablo Canyon Power Plant, Shoreham Nuclear Power Plant, and the Three Mile Island accident.   More recent targeted campaigning has related to the Indian Point Energy Center, Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station, Pilgrim Nuclear Generating Station, Salem Nuclear Power Plant, Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant, Idaho National Laboratory, proposed Yucca Mountain waste repository, the Hanford Site, the Nevada Test Site, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and transportation of nuclear waste from the Los Alamos National Laboratory. Many different groups have been involved in various protests and demonstrations over the years.

More than eighty anti-nuclear groups are operating, or have operated, in the United States. These include: Abalone Alliance, Clamshell Alliance, Greenpeace USA,  Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, Musicians United for Safe Energy, Nevada Desert Experience, Nuclear Control Institute, Nuclear Information and Resource Service, Public Citizen Energy Program, Shad Alliance, and the Sierra Club.

Anti-nuclear protests reached a peak in the 1970s and 1980s and grew out of the environmental movement. Campaigns that captured national public attention involved the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Seabrook Station Nuclear Power Plant, Diablo Canyon Power Plant, Shoreham Nuclear Power Plant, and Three Mile Island.

Beginning in the 1980s, many anti-nuclear power activists began shifting their interest, by joining a rapidly growing nuclear freeze movement, and the primary concern about nuclear hazards in the USA changed from the problems of nuclear power plants to the prospects of nuclear war. On June 12, 1982, one million people demonstrated in New York City's Central Park against nuclear weapons and for an end to the cold war arms race. It was the largest anti-nuclear protest and the largest political demonstration in American history. International Day of Nuclear Disarmament protests were held on June 20, 1983 at 50 sites across the United States. There were many Nevada Desert Experience protests and peace camps at the Nevada Test Site during the 1980s and 1990s.

More recent campaigning by anti-nuclear groups has related to several nuclear power plants including the Enrico Fermi Nuclear Power Plant, Indian Point Energy Center, Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station, Pilgrim Nuclear Generating Station, Salem Nuclear Power Plant, and Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant. There have also been campaigns relating to the Y-12 Nuclear Weapons Plant, the Idaho National Laboratory, Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository proposal, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory,

Some scientists and engineers have expressed reservations about nuclear power, including: Barry Commoner, S. David Freeman, John Gofman, Arnold Gundersen, Mark Z. Jacobson, Amory Lovins, Arjun Makhijani, Gregory Minor, M.V. Ramana, Joseph Romm and Benjamin K. Sovacool. Scientists who have opposed nuclear weapons include Paul M. Doty, Hermann Joseph Muller, Linus Pauling, Eugene Rabinowitch, M.V. Ramana and Frank N. von Hippel.

[[Prajna]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist terminology

Prajna is a Buddhist word meaning wisdom.  It is one of three divisions of the Noble Eightfold Path. The understanding is a goal of contemplation. Buddhism traces its origins to Siddattha Gotama, who lived from about 563 to 483 BCE. He was known as the Buddha, which means "the enlightened one".

[[Squealer (Animal Farm)]]

CATEGORIES: Animal Farm characters, Fictional pigs

Squealer is a porker on Manor Farm  in the book Animal Farm. Squealer is a very fat little piglet, with round cheeks, twinkling eyes, nimble movements, coupled together with a shrill voice. While arguing a difficult point, he skips from side to side and whisks his tail around in a persuasive manner, allowing him to lie with ease. The pig is seen as the propagandist in the book and his ability to use language well makes his speeches believable by the other less intelligent animals.

Squealer is based on the Russia media of Stalin's time, and all the advertisement of Stalin.

[[2006 Palestinian legislative election]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in Asia, 2006 elections, Politics of Palestine

On January 25 2006, Palestinians voted for the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC), the legislature of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA). Without counting the 2005 municipal elections and the January 9, 2005 presidential election, this was the first election to the PLC since 1996; since then, elections had been delayed several times due to the continuing Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Palestinian voters in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank including East Jerusalem were allowed to participate in the election.

Final results show that Hamas won the election, with 74 seats. The ruling party, Fatah, only got 45, giving Hamas the majority of the 132 available seats and the chance to form a majority government on their own. Analysis of election results shows that the number of seats each party won agrees with their percentage of the vote for the 66 list seats. Hamas is overrepresented in the 66 district seats because it nominated more strategically than Fatah and did not have to compete with third parties and independents for the same voters' support.

The Prime Minister, Ahmed Qurei, resigned, but at the request of President Mahmoud Abbas, remained as interim Prime Minister until February 19, when Hamas leader Ismail Haniya formed the new government. The Quartet threatened to cut funds to the Palestinian Authority following the elections.

[[Tizimín]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Yucatán (state)

Tizimín is a city in Mexico. The city is 100 miles east of the Mérida city in Mexico. The Mérida in Mexico is not the same as the Mérida in Spain.

In the Maya language, Tizimín means tapir. A tapir is a big animal that lives in South America.

[[Dick Locher]]

CATEGORIES: Pulitzer Prize winners, American cartoonists, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, 1929 births, 2017 deaths, People from Dubuque, Iowa

Richard Earl "Dick" Locher (June 4, 1929 – August 6, 2017) was a cartoonist. He has made cartoons for lots of things, including the Chicago Tribune. He has also made cartoons for Life, Time, Newsweek, U.S. News and World Report, Forbes, and the Congressional Record. He was born in Dubuque, Iowa.

Locher died of Parkinson's disease on August 6, 2017 in Naperville, Illinois, aged 88.

[[Come See the Paradise]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 drama movies, 1990 romance movies, 1990s war movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Multilingual movies, World War II movies, Movies directed by Alan Parker

Come See the Paradise is a movie made in 1990. It is about people from Japanese families in the United States during World War II. The movie shows how some of those people were put into prison because they were Japanese.

[[Tisa (disambiguation)]]

Tisa can be any of the following:

[[Tisza (disambiguation)]]

Tisza can be any of the following:

[[Paris Tramway Line 1]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in Europe, Transport in France, Paris, 1992 establishments in Europe, 1990s establishments in France

Paris Tramway Line 1 is one of the tram lines in Paris.

It was opened in 1992.

[[Flag of Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: United States state flags, Symbols of Oklahoma

The flag and banner of the U.S. state of Oklahoma is made up of a Osage Nation buffalo-skin shield with seven eagle feathers on a sky blue background.

[[Seal of Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols of Oklahoma, United States state seals

The Great Seal of Oklahoma is a five-pointed star in a circle. The center of the star is made up of the Seal of the Territory of Oklahoma.

Inside the star are seals of five Native American Nations from Oklahoma.

The top point is for the Chickasaw nation, showing a warrior holding a bow and shield.

The upper left-hand point is for the Cherokee Nation, showing  a star with a wreath of oak leaves.

The upper right-hand point is for the Choctaw Nation, showing a tomahawk, a bow, and three crossed arrows.

The lower left-hand point is for the Creek Nation, showing a sheaf of wheat and a plow.

The lower right-hand point is for the Seminole Nation, showing houses and a factory on a lake with a hunter paddling a canoe.

The forty-five small stars around the middle star are for the forty-five states in the Union when Oklahoma became a state in 1907.

[[Orienteering]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

thumb|right|A person orienteeringOrienteering is a sport where people run around an area to certain control points given on a map. There are lots of types of orienteering and the most popular type in Britain and the US is called Foot Orienteering. In orienteering people use a special map which shows where they have to go and in what order. People are timed and the person who is quickest wins. The word Orienteering comes from orientering, which is a word that comes from Sweden.

Orienteering is developed by International Orienteering Federation (IOF).

IOF recognizes the following types of orienteering:

[[Brad Henry]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Governors of Oklahoma, People from Shawnee, Oklahoma, US Democratic Party politicians

Charles Bradford "Brad" Henry, Jr. (born June 10, 1963) is an American politician. He was the Governor of the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Governor of Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Oklahoma

The Governor of the State of Oklahoma is the head of state for the State of Oklahoma, United States. 

The office was created in 1907 when Oklahoma was officially admitted to the United States as the 46th state. Prior to statehood in 1907, the office was preceded by a Presidential appointed Governor of Oklahoma Territory with similar powers. The 28th and current Governor of Oklahoma is Kevin Stitt, a member of the Republican Party.

[[King of the Klondike]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books

King of Klondike is the main chapter of The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck.

[[The Billionaire of Dismal Downs]]

CATEGORIES: DuckTales

"Tbe Billionaire of Dismal Downs" is the ninth episode of The life and times of Scrooge McDuck.

[[A Cage of Nightingales]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, French-language movies, French movies

A Cage of Nightingales is a 1945 French movie directed by Jean Dréville. In French it is called La Cage aux rossignols. It was one of the movies that nearly won an Oscar award. It was first shown in the USA in 1947.

[[Clarence Clifton Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2016 deaths, American lawyers, United States representatives from Nevada, US Republican Party politicians

Clarence Clifton Young (November 7, 1922 – April 3, 2016)  was an American politician from the state of Nevada. He was a member of United States House of Representatives from January 3, 1953 to January 3, 1957. He was from the Republican Party.

Young died in Reno, Nevada on April 3, 2016, aged 93.

[[San Salvador]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in North America, Cities in Central America, El Salvador, 1520s establishments in North America, 1525 establishments, Establishments in El Salvador

San Salvador is the capital and largest city of the nation of El Salvador.

[[Ivybridge]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Devon

Ivybridge is a small town in the county of Devon in South West England.

[[OGame]]

CATEGORIES: Online games

OGame is a browser-based strategy game. The game was created in 2002 by Gameforge. OGame is able to go in different languages. It also has up to 39 uni (for short) or universes.

[[Menopause]]

CATEGORIES: Female reproductive system, Endocrinology

Menopause means the natural and permanent stopping of menstruation. Female hormone levels drop, since they were produced by the ovaries which have now stopped working. The female can no longer have children after this happens.

[[Dong Hoi Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Vietnam, Quang Binh Province, 2008 establishments in Asia, 21st century establishments in Vietnam

Dong Hoi Airport is an airport in Dong Hoi City in Quảng Bình Province, in central Vietnam. It lies 500 km south of Hanoi. This airport is located 6 km north of downtown, in a suburb of the city. The coordinates are 17°30'54N - 106°35'26E (WGS - 84).

The construction of this airport started in September 2004 and finished in May 2008. The first flight to this airport was from Hanoi on May 18, 2008, the date this airport began operation. This airport serves Dong Hoi, Quang Binh where there are a World Heritage Site Phong Nha-Ke Bang National Park and some fine beaches. This airport can serve 300 passengers per peak hour or 500,000 passengers per year.

[[Sandal (footwear)]]

CATEGORIES: Footwear

Sandals are an open type of footwear, with a sole held to the wearer's foot by straps or thongs passing over the instep and around the ankle. While the distinction between sandals and other types of footwear can sometimes be unclear (as in the case of huaraches—the woven leather footwear seen in Mexico), the common understanding is that a sandal reveals most or all of the foot (especially the toes) to view. People may choose to wear sandals for several reasons, among them economy (sandals tend to require less material than shoes), comfort in warm weather, and (especially for women) for reasons of fashion and attractiveness. 

Usually, sandals are worn in warmer climates or during warmer parts of the year, because feet stay cool and dry. The chances of getting a fungal infection on the feet (athlete's foot) is lower than with wearing an enclosed shoe and wearing sandals may be part of treatment for a fungal foot infection.

[[Beetlejuice (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 American television series debuts, 1992 television series endings, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, American comedy television series, Animated television series, Fantasy television series, Horror television series, English-language television programs

Beetlejuice is an American fantasy-comedy-horror television series. It is about a teenage goth girl named Lydia who does not like her school peers and from nowhere a ghost, named Beetlejuice, appears. It aired from 1989-1992.

[[Province of Agrigento]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sicily

Agrigento is a province in the autonomous region of Sicily in Italy.

[[Province of Caltanissetta]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sicily

Caltanissetta is a province in the autonomous region of Sicily in Italy.

[[Province of Catania]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sicily

Catania is a province in the autonomous region Sicily in Italy.

[[Province of Enna]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sicily

Enna is a province in the autonomous region of Sicily in Italy. It is the only Sicilian province which is not next to the ocean.  It became a province in 1926 thanks to Benito Mussolini, who was fascinated by the history of the province, and in particular by the legend of Proserpina. In the province there are 8 lakes, the most important is Pergusa's lake which is the only natural lake of the Sicily; the other lakes are used for the agriculture.

[[Franchise]]

Franchise can mean:

[[Province of Messina]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sicily

Messina (Provincia di Messina; Pruvincia Riggiunali di Missina) is a province in the autonomous region of Sicily.

[[Province of Palermo]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sicily

Palermo is a province in the autonomous region of Sicily in Italy.

[[Province of Ragusa]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sicily

Ragusa is a province in the autonomous region of Sicily, Italy.

[[Patrick Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Actors from Yorkshire, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Knights Bachelor, Officers of the Order of the British Empire

Sir Patrick Stewart GBR (born 13 July 1940) is an English actor. He then served as the Chancellor of University of Huddersfield from 2004 to 2015.   He is also a Shakespearian actor who spent 16 years with the Royal Shakespeare Company, but is best known for playing the role of Capt. Jean-Luc Picard on Star Trek: The Next Generation. He also played Professor X in the X-Men movies and his extensive voice work as Avery Bullock (along with Avery Bullock as B, The Police Academy Chief and Himself) in the animated series American Dad!. He was then given a knighthood by Queen Elizabeth II in her New Years Honours at the start of 2010, and then became "Sir Patrick Stewart".

He was immortalized outside the Chinese Theatre in January 2020.

[[Province of Syracuse]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sicily

Syracuse is a province in the autonomous region of Sicily in Italy. It is well known for its manny archaeological sites and the island of Ortygia.

[[Province of Trapani]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sicily

Trapani is a province in the autonomous region of Sicily in Italy.

[[Province of Cagliari]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sardinia, Communes of the Metropolitan City of Cagliari

[[Province of Carbonia-Iglesias]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sardinia

Carbonia-Iglesias was a province in the autonomous region of Sardinia, Italy.

[[Andy Abraham]]

CATEGORIES: Black British musicians, English pop musicians, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from London, The X Factor contestants, 1974 births, Living people

Andy Abraham (born 17 July 1964, London) is a British singer-songwriter. He is best known for finishing second in the 2005 series of The X Factor in the United Kingdom.

Abraham was the representative for the United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest 2008  with the song Even If. He became the second UK act ever to come in last place in Eurovision.

[[Seahorse]]

CATEGORIES: Syngnathiformes

Seahorses are a type of teleost fish. They are in the genus Hippocampus. They are called 'seahorses' because their head looks like a horse's head. There are about 32–48 species of seahorse. Seahorses live in tropical oceans. 

Seahorses use camouflage to hide.

[[Latvian lats]]

CATEGORIES: Latvia, Former currencies of Europe, 1922 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Latvia, 1940 disestablishments, 1940s disestablishments in Europe, 1993 establishments in Latvia, 2013 disestablishments in Europe

The Latvian lats (plural lati) was the currency used in Latvia in 1922—1940 and in 1993—2013.

It is shortened as Ls and was divided into 100 santīmi

On 1 January 2014, Latvian lats was replaced by the euro. The lats could be used for two weeks alongside euros after the currency was replaced.

[[Parts of speech]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of speech

Parts of speech are types of word in grammar. There are many different word categories: they are called 'lexical categories'. The most common are these:

Verbs, nouns, adjectives, adverbs, and interjections are called open classes because they are parts of speech that can easily add new words. On the other hand, pronouns, prepositions, and conjunctions are closed classes because new words cannot be added easily. For example, since pronouns are a closed class, there are fairly few pronouns: I, me, my, mine, myself, you, your, yours, yourself, he, him, his, his, himself, she, her, her, hers, herself, it, it, its, its, itself, we, us, our, ours, ourselves, they, them, their, theirs, themselves. Since pronouns are used to replace whole noun phrases, there is no need to have many kinds of pronouns. Instead of saying "The Earl of Sandwich introduced the Earl of Sandwich's favorite food, the sandwich", one uses the pronoun "his" to replace "the Earl of Sandwich's" to make the sentence not repeat itself when it doesn't have to, thus the sentence becomes "The Earl of Sandwich introduced his favorite food, the sandwich". New nouns, on the other hand, can easily be made, and are constantly being added into the English language.

[[The Plague Dogs]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 books, Books by Richard Adams, Fantasy books

The Plague Dogs is a 1977 novel written by Richard Adams, who is famous for his well-known and best-selling novel, Watership Down. Like Watership Down, The Plague Dogs was made into a movie by Nepenthe Productions in 1982. It eventually got taken out of the cinema because very few people would come and see it.

[[House (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 American television series debuts, 2012 American television series endings, 2000s American drama television series, 2000s American workplace television series, 2000s medical television series, 2010s American drama television series, 2010s American workplace television series, 2010s medical television series, American medical television series, American workplace drama television series, Fox television series, Television series set in New Jersey, English-language television programs

House is an American medical television drama. It was created by David Shore in 2004 and aired on FOX from 2004-2012. House M.D. has fans all over the world. It is set at the fictional Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital in New Jersey. The show's main character, Doctor Gregory House, is a grumpy, sarcastic man who hates having to deal with his patients. Even though he spends a lot of his time insulting his patients and co-workers, or watching TV in his office, Dr. House almost always manages to cure his patients with his great medical intelligence.

[[Province of Medio Campidano]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sardinia

Medio Campidano is a province in the autonomous region of Sardinia in Italy.

[[Province of Nuoro]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sardinia, Communes of the Province of Nuoro

Nuoro is a province in the autonomous region of Sardinia in Italy.

[[Province of Ogliastra]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sardinia

Ogliastra is a province in the autonomous region of Sardinia in Italy.

[[Province of Olbia-Tempio]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sardinia

Olbia-Tempio is a province in the autonomous region of Sardinia in Italy.

[[Province of Oristano]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sardinia, Communes of the Province of Oristano

Oristano is a province in the autonomous region of Sardinia in Italy.

[[Province of Sassari]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Sardinia, Communes of the Province of Sassari

Sassari is a province in the autonomous region of Sardinia in Italy.

[[Lost cities]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of cities

A lost city is a city that was normal once but, for some reason, became not lived in any more and forgotten about. Many of these cities are called ghost towns.

[[Lost city (disambiguation)]]

Lost City could mean:

Lost Cities could also mean:

The Lost City could mean:

In places:

[[Popol Vuh (German band)]]

CATEGORIES: German rock bands

Popol Vuh was a German Krautrock band that was founded by pianist and keyboardist Florian Fricke in 1970 together with Holger Trulzsch (percussion) and Frank Fiedler (electronics). 

Other important members during the next two decades included Daniel Fichelscher and Robert Eliscu. The band took its name from the Popol Vuh, a manuscript containing the mythology of the Post-Classic Quiché Maya kingdom of highland Guatemala.

[[Franchising]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Marketing

Franchising is a business method that involves the licensing of trademarks and methods of doing business. That can be chain stores, which are retail outlets which share a brand and central management, but also an exclusive right to sell branded merchandise. A similar case is a media franchise, the ownership of the characters and setting of a movie, video game, book, or toys etc., particularly in North American usage. Examples include Pokémon, Harry Potter or Barbie.

[[Province of Alessandria]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Piedmont

Alessandria is a province in the region of Piedmont, Italy.

[[Province of Asti]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Piedmont

Asti is a province in the region of Piedmont, Italy.

[[Province of Biella]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Piedmont

Biella is a province in the region of Piedmont, Italy.

[[Province of Cuneo]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Piedmont

Cuneo is a province in the region of Piedmont, Italy.

[[Province of Novara]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Piedmont

Novara is a province in the region of Piedmont, Italy.

[[Province of Turin]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Piedmont

Turin (or Torino) is a province in the region of Piedmont, Italy.

[[Province of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Piedmont

Verbano-Cusio-Ossola is a province in the region of Piedmont, Italy.

[[Province of Vercelli]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Piedmont

Vercelli is a province in the region of Piedmont, Italy.

[[Province of Campobasso]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Molise

Campobasso is a province in the region of Molise, Italy.

[[Province of Isernia]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Molise

Isernia is a province in the region of Molise, Italy.

[[Province of Ancona]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Marche

The province of Ancona (provincia di Ancona) is a province in the Marche region of Central Italy. Its capital is the city of Ancona, and the province borders the Adriatic Sea. The city of Ancona is also the capital of Marche.

[[Cannon]]

CATEGORIES: Artillery

A cannon is a type of artillery, or large gun. They are made with a large tube called "barrel", and shoot projectiles. Cannons were first made in China, and were used with another Chinese invention, gunpowder. The gunpowder was put at the back of the tube, and the projectile, usually a cannonball, was placed in front. The gunpowder was set on fire, and would explode. This pushed the cannonball out the front of the tube towards the enemy. Howitzers and mortars are similar to cannons but they have shorter barrels and shoot the balls higher.

Modern guns that can shoot many big projectiles quickly and automatically are called autocannons. 

[[Province of Macerata]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Marche

The Province of Macerata (Provincia di Macerata) is a province in the region of Marche in Italy. Its capital is the city of Macerata.

[[Deduction]]

Deduction might mean:

[[Steven Cherundolo]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American footballers, People from Rockford, Illinois

Steven Cherundolo (born February 19, 1979 in Rockford, Illinois) is an American soccer player. He has played most of career (until 2008) for the German football club Hannover 96. Cherundolo plays on the position of a defender.

Before he came to Hannover, Cherundolo played from 1997 to 1998 in an American college soccer league for the University of Portland.

In his first season for Hannover 96, 1998-99, he made four matches in the team which played in the 2nd German league (2. Bundesliga). In the following season, Cherundolo was in the team most of the time, but he had a bad knee injury. He came back during the 2000-01 season and made 18 matches. In the following season, he made 33 of 34 matches and has been a start member of the team most of the time until 2008. 

In 2002 he got up to the 1st league with his club and played the following seasons in the 1st German league (1. Bundesliga). All together Cherundolo made 250 matches for Hannover 96 from 1999 to 2008, scoring six goals. 

Cherundolo made his first match for the United States national team against Jamaica on 8th September 1999. Until 2008 he has made 44 matches for his national team, scoring two goals.

[[WrestleMania XXV]]

CATEGORIES: WrestleMania, 2009 in professional wrestling, Sports in Houston, Texas, 2009 in American television, 2000s in Houston, Texas

WrestleMania XXV (or The 25th Anniversary of WrestleMania or WrestleMania 25), was the twenty-fifth yearly WrestleMania professional wrestling Pay-per-view produced by World Wrestling Entertainment and took place on April 5, 2009 at Reliant Stadium in Houston, Texas. It was the second WrestleMania held in the state of Texas, with the first being WrestleMania X-Seven, at the Reliant Astrodome, also in Houston, which was held in 2001. The tagline for the event was "Everything is bigger in Texas, especially WrestleMania." "Cowboy" by Kid Rock was used in the first promotional advertisement for the event. While WWE calls it the 25th Anniversary, it is only the 24th anniversary as WrestleMania I cannot be an anniversary of itself.

[[Counties of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Romania-related lists, Counties of Romania, Lists of counties

The judeţe (translated in English as "counties") are administrative units of Romania.

The following is a complete list of all the counties in Romania:

Source: http://www.recensamantromania.ro/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/Comunicat_DATE_PROVIZORII_RPL_2011_.pdf

[[Alba County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania, Transylvania

Alba ('al.ba; Hungarian: Fehér) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Transylvania.  The capital of Alba County is Alba Iulia, with a population of 72,405 people.

[[Arad County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania, Transylvania

Arad (a.'rad; Hungarian: Arad, Serbian: Arad/Арад) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Crişana. The capital of Arad County is Arad. About 185,272 people live in Arad County.

[[Sanrio]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of Japan, 1960 establishments in Asia, 1960s establishments in Japan

Sanrio Co., Ltd. 8136 is a Japanese company that makes characters and sells and licenses products with images of characters. The things they make include stationery (pencils, pens writing, paper, etc.), school supplies and gifts. Sanrio's best known character is Hello Kitty, a white cat with red bow and no mouth. Hello Kitty is one of the most successful marketing brands in the world.

Sanrio was started by Shintaro Tsuji as the Yamanashi Silk Company in 1960. In 1973 the company changed its name to "Sanrio." The word Sanrio comes from "san" (meaning three in Japanese) and "río" (meaning river in Spanish"). He named the company Sanrio to join the three rivers of the world.

Besides selling their character goods, Sanrio also takes part in movie production and publishing. Sanrio worked together with Sega Toys to make a series of cartoons, toys, and other products called Jewelpet. They make lots of greeting cards.

The company has worked with UNICEF since 1984.

Sanrio also has two theme parks in Japan, Sanrio Puroland in Tama, Tokyo, and Harmonyland  in Hiji, Ōita, Kyūshū.

[[John Burningham]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, British illustrators, Writers from Surrey

John Burningham (27 April 1936 – 4 January 2019) was a British children's book writer and illustrator.  He won many awards including the Kate Greenaway Medal in 1963 for his book called Borka: The Adventures of a Goose With No Feathers. He was also known for illustrating the book Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang.

Burningham was born April 27, 1936 in Farnham, Surrey, England. Burningham died on 4 January 2019 at the age of 82 from pneumonia.

[[Kate Greenaway Medal]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books, Art awards

The Kate Greenaway Medal is an award that was created in the United Kingdom in 1955.  It was named after the children's illustrator, Kate Greenaway. The medal is given every year to an extremely good work of illustration in children's literature. It is awarded by the Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals (CILIP).

The first award was given to Edward Ardizzone for Tim All Alone in 1956. The winner gets a golden medal and £500 worth of books to give to a library of their choice. 

Since the year 2000, the winner of the Kate Greenaway Medal has also been presented with the Colin Mears Award of £5000.

[[Kate Greenaway]]

CATEGORIES: 1846 births, 1901 deaths, English writers, British illustrators

Catherine "Kate" Greenaway  (London, 17 March 1846-6 November 1901) was a children's book illustrator and writer. Her first book, Under The Window (1879) was a best-seller.

The Kate Greenaway Medal is awarded every year by the UK Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals to an illustrator of children's books.

Greenaway died of breast cancer in 1901 at the age of 55. She is buried in Hampstead Cemetery, London.

[[The Cry of the Icemark]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 books, The Icemark Chronicles

The Cry Of The Icemark is the first book in the Icemark Chronicles that are written by the English author Stuart Hill. The book won the Ottakar's Children's Book Prize in 2005. It also won the 2006 Highlands Children's Book award for Long Novels in 2006. It is followed by The Blade of Fire.

[[Blade of Fire]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 books, Nicosia, The Icemark Chronicles

Blade of Fire is the second book in Stuart Hill's fantasy series, The Icemark Chronicles.  It came out in 2007. It tells the story of Nicosia, the elder heir of the king Cupro.

[[Stuart Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people

Stuart Hill is a British author who was born in 1958. in Leicester England.  He has written two books in The Icemark Chronicles.  They are called The Cry of the Icemark and The Blade of Fire. He is currently writing the third book called "Last Battle Of The Icemark".

[[Chinon]]

CATEGORIES: Subprefectures in France, Communes in Indre-et-Loire

Chinon is a French commune. It is in the west of the Indre-et-Loire department in the Centre-Val de Loire region, to the southwest of Paris, and is a subprefecture in the department. It is also the capital of the arrrondissement of Chinon and the administrative centre of the Chinon canton.

Chinon is in the valley of the Loire river, registered as a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 2000.

[[Pacific Ring of Fire]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific Ocean, Volcanoes, Volcanoes of Asia, Volcanoes of North America, Volcanoes of South America, Volcanoes of Oceania

The Pacific Ring of Fire is an arc around the Pacific Ocean where many volcanoes and earthquakes are formed. The area is also called the Pacific Rim, a term which refers to the coastal areas of the countries round the Pacific.

About three quarters of the world's dormant volcanos and active volcanos are here. The ring is 40,000km long, and there are 452 volcanoes.

About 90% of the world's earthquakes and 81% of the world's largest earthquakes occur along the Ring of Fire. The next most seismic region (5–6% of earthquakes and 17% of the world's largest earthquakes) is the Alpide belt, which extends from Java to Sumatra through the Himalayas, the Mediterranean, and out into the Atlantic. The Mid-Atlantic Ridge is the third most prominent earthquake belt. 

The Ring of Fire is a direct result of plate tectonics and the movement and collisions of crustal plates.

[[Palenque]]

CATEGORIES: Maya civilization, World Heritage Sites in Mexico, Archaeological sites in Mexico, Chiapas

Palenque (Bàak' in Modern Maya) is a Maya archeological site near the Usumacinta River in the Mexican state of Chiapas. It is a medium-sized site, much smaller than large sites like Tikal or Copán. It does, however, contain good examples of architecture, sculpture, roof comb and bas-relief carvings of the Maya time.

[[Jack Hyles]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2001 deaths, American Baptists, Christian ministers, People from Indiana, People from Texas

Jack Frasure Hyles (September 25, 1926 in Texas - February 6, 2001 in Indiana) was a important person in the independent Baptist movement. He was the pastor of the First Baptist Church of Hammond in Hammond, Indiana from 1959 until his death in 2001. 

[[Old Faithful Geyser]]

CATEGORIES: Wyoming, Geysers

Old Faithful is a cone geyser in Wyoming, in Yellowstone National Park in the United States. Old Faithful was named in 1870 during the Washburn-Langford-Doane Expedition and was the first geyser in the park to get a name.

[[Odyssey (disambiguation)]]

The Odyssey is an ancient Greek epic poem by Homer.

Odyssey could also mean:

[[Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata]]

CATEGORIES: Argentine football clubs, 1887 establishments, 1880s establishments in Argentina

Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata (CGE or GELP) is an Argentina sports club, of the city of La Plata, Buenos Aires. It was founded on June 3, 1887 as Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima. Its principal activity is football, and it competes in the First División Argentina, Argentina's premier league.

Its stadium is the "Juan Carlos Zerillo", known as the "Estadio del Bosque", capacity for 33.000 spectators.

Gimnasia were champions of División Intermedia of the Argentine Football in 1915, of the First División in 1929, of the "Copa Centenario de la AFA" in 1994 and of the Second division in 1944, 1947 and 1952; it was runner-up of the First División in 1924, Clausura 1995, Clausura 1996, Apertura 1998, Clausura 2002 and Apertura 2005.

[[Galatians]]

Galatians may refer to

[[Province of Pesaro and Urbino]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Marche

The Province of Pesaro and Urbino (Provincia di Pesaro e Urbino) is a province in the Marche region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Pesaro.

The province is also known as "Riviera of Hills". It is mostly covered by hills and is popular for its beaches.

[[Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall]]

CATEGORIES: House of Windsor, People from Sussex, Royalty from London, 1947 births, Living people

Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall  GCVO (Camilla Rosemary; née Shand; formerly Parker Bowles; born 17 July 1947) is the second wife of Charles, Prince of Wales.

[[Clarence House]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in London, Royal residences in the United Kingdom

Clarence House is the home of Charles, Prince of Wales in London. It is part of St James's Palace, and is on The Mall, close to Buckingham Palace (The Queen's home).

The Prince of Wales lives with his wife, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall there. The Prince of Wales' offices and staff are also based at Clarence House, and any announcements made by his staff are attributed to "Clarence House" as an entity, just like announcements from The Queen are said to be made by "Buckingham Palace".

Prince Charles has lived at Clarence House since 2003. The Queen Mother lived at Clarence House from 1953 (the year after the death of her husband (King George VI)) until 2002, when she died.

[[Heal's]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United Kingdom, 1810 establishments in Europe, 1810s establishments in the United Kingdom

Heal's ("Heal and Sons Ltd") is a British department store furniture and furnishing store chain with six stores. The stores sell an upmarket range of furniture, lighting, accessories, home and garden-wares.

It was founded in 1810 by John Harris Heal and his son.  At first the company made beds.

The work of Sir Ambrose Heal made the company famous.  He worked there for 60 years, from 1893 to 1953.  Ambrose Heal was one of the group of designers, industrialists and business people who founded the Design and Industries Association in 1915.  Their slogan was "Nothing Need Be Ugly".

[[Chain store]]

CATEGORIES: Business

Chain stores are retail stores which share a brand and central management, usually with standardized business methods and practices. They may all have the same owners or may be franchised. Many restaurants are also chains. 

[[Province of Bergamo]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Bergamo is a province in the region of Lombardy in Italy.

[[Province of Brescia]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Brescia is a province in the region of Lombardy in Italy.

[[Province of Como]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Como is a province in the region of Lombardy in Italy.

[[Province of Cremona]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Cremona is a province in the region of Lombardy in Italy.

[[St. Augustine, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Florida, County seats in Florida

St. Augustine is the oldest city in the United States begun by Europeans and filled with people since it was started. The admiral from Spain, Pedro Menéndez de Avilés, started St. Augustine in 1565. There was fighting between England and Spain in 1586, 1702, and 1740 over the city. Spain won each time. In 1763, St. Augustine was given to the English as part of the Treaty of Paris which ended the French and Indian War. After the American colonies became independent from England, another Treaty of Paris, this one in 1783, returned the area to Spain. In 1819, the Adams-Onís Treaty gave all of Florida to the United States.

The largest sign of the years under Spain is the Castillo de San Marcos, a large masonry fort built between 1672 and 1695. This fort still stands.

[[Jefferson Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, 1825 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Louisiana

Jefferson Parish is a parish in the U.S. state of Louisiana. Most of the suburbs of New Orleans are in this parish. Because of this Jefferson parish has the most population in the state.

[[King's Lynn]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Norfolk, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom, Port cities and towns of the North Sea

King's Lynn is a town and port in Norfolk, England. Over the years, the town has been known variously as Bishop's Lynn and Lynn Regis, while it is occasionally referred to by locals as simply Lynn—the Celtic word for lake. 

King's Lynn is the third largest settlement in Norfolk after the city of Norwich and the town of Great Yarmouth. Sandringham House, the Norfolk residence of the British Royal Family, is 6 north-east of King's Lynn.

[[Peterhof]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Russia

Peterhof (or Petergof), meaning "Peter's Court" is a town in Saint Petersburg on the southern shore of the Gulf of Finland. It has a population of about 65,000. It hosts one of two campuses of Saint Petersburg State University. A series of palaces and gardens, laid out on the orders of Peter the Great, and sometimes called the "Russian Versailles", is also there. The palace-ensemble along with the city center is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

In the time of Peter the Great, the sea floor just north of the Petergof site and to the east toward St. Petersburg was too shallow for commercial ships or warships. But to the west of Petergof, the sea floor dropped off to be deep enough for sea vessels. Accordingly, when Peter the Great decided to build St. Petersburg at the eastern end of the Gulf of Finland, he built the commercial harbor for St. Petersburg and the Kronstadt fort across the 20 kilometers (12 miles) of shallow sea to supply and defend his Navy.

[[Haltern am See]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Rhine-Westphalia, Recklinghausen Rural District

Haltern am See (Haltern at the lake, before December 2001 only Haltern) is a town and a municipality in the district of Recklinghausen, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is next to the Lippe River and the Wesel-Datteln Canal, approx. 15 km north of Recklinghausen.  

[[Rapides Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, 1807 establishments in the Territory of Orleans

Rapides Parish (Paroisse des Rapides) is a parish located in the U.S. state of Louisiana. As of the 2010 census, the population was 131,613. The parish seat is Alexandria. Rapides is the French spelling of "rapids" and is pronounced ra-PEEDS (I.P.A. ɹæ.pid͜z). 

The parish was created in 1807 after the United States bought this territory in the Louisiana Purchase.

[[Enteric nervous system]]

CATEGORIES: Nervous system

The enteric nervous system (ENS) is a part of the peripheral nervous system. It controls the reflexes of the gastrointestinal system. 

Some treat the ENS as part of the autonomic nervous system.

[[Carl Frederick Tandberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1988 deaths

Carl Frederick Tandberg (March 22, 1910 – August 26, 1988), was a bass fiddle musician who recorded with Glen Campbell and Frankie Ortega.

[[Personification]]

CATEGORIES: Prose, Metaphors

Personification is a figure of speech where non-living objects are described to seem like people.

In the arts, personification means representing a non-human thing as if it were human. Personification gives human traits and qualities, such as emotions, desires, sensations, gestures and speech, often by way of a metaphor.

Personification is much used in visual arts. Examples in writing are "the leaves waved in the wind", "the ocean heaved a sigh" or "the Sun smiled at us". In easy language personification is just giving an example of a living being for a non-living thing. "The wind shouted". In these examples, the nonhuman subjects are given human characteristics.

Another commonly used personification is found in stories where animals and legendary creatures are attributed labels for recognition. This is called anthropomorphism.

[[The Named]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 books, Guardians of Time Trilogy

The Named is a fantasy book that was written by Marianne Curley.  It is the first book in the Guardians of Time Trilogy.

[[The Dark (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 books, Guardians of Time Trilogy

The Dark is a fantasy book that was written by Marianne Curley.  It is the second book in the Guardians of Time Trilogy.

[[The Key (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 books, Guardians of Time Trilogy

The Key is a fantasy book that was written by Marianne Curley.  It is the third book in the Guardians of Time Trilogy.

[[Marianne Curley]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Writers from New South Wales

Marianne Curley, (born 20 May 1959) is an Australian writer of young-adult novels. She is the author of several fantasy books, including Old Magic and the three novels in the Guardians of Time series. She is most popular outside of Australia, and her books have been translated into several languages, including Spanish, Portuguese, German and Dutch.

[[Guardians of Time Trilogy]]

CATEGORIES: Guardians of Time Trilogy

The ''Guardians of Time'' Trilogy is a series of fictional books that are written by Marianne Curley. The books in this trilogy are The Named, The Dark, and The Key. The trilogy is about a group of people called the Guardians of Time (the Guard), going into history to save the world from the Order of Chaos (the Order), who are trying to history to give themselves more power. The books take place in Angel Falls, Australia

[[Ender's Game]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, Hugo Award winning books, American novels, English-language novels, Nebula Awards, Science fiction books

Ender's Game (1985) is one of the most famous books written by Orson Scott Card. It takes place in Earth's future where mankind has barely survived two attacks by the "buggers", a species of alien, and the International Fleet is getting ready for war. In order to find and train a leader for the next invasion, the world's smartest children, including Ender Wiggin, are taken into a place called Battle School at a very young age. The book takes place around the year 2135, and its sequels Speaker for the Dead, Xenocide, Children of the Mind, A War of Gifts, and Ender in Exile: Ganges follow Ender to different planets as he travels far into the future.

The book was first a novelette that came out in the August 1977 issue of Analog Science Fiction and Fact. Card later made the novel longer and wrote sequels to create the Ender's Game series.

A new version was released in 1991 to keep facts accurate (such as the end of the Soviet Union).

[[Orson Scott Card]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Nebula Award winning writers, Hugo Award winning writers, People from Mesa, Arizona, Writers from Arizona, Writers from Washington, Writers from North Carolina

Orson Scott Card (born August 24, 1951) is a popular American writer, a critic, political writer, and speaker. He is best known for his science fiction books.  His novel Ender's Game and its sequel Speaker for the Dead both won the Hugo Award and the Nebula Award, making Card the only writer (as of 2007) to win both of science fiction's top prizes two years in a row.

Card is an English professor at Southern Virginia University. He has written two books on creative writing. Card teaches other people about writing. He is also a judge in the Writers of the Future competition. Card’s great-great-grandfather is Brigham Young, who was a leader for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).  Card is also a member of the LDS Church.  Today he still writes many fiction works.  He has also produced writing about church, politics, and society in his columns and books.

[[Genius Squad]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 books, Fantasy books, Science fiction books

Genius Squad is a book that was written by Catherine Jinks in 2008.  It was published by Allen & Unwin, Australia. It is the second book in a series that follows the main character Cadel Piggot.

[[Evil Genius (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 books, Fantasy books, Science fiction books

Evil Genius is a book written by Catherine Jinks in 2005.  It was published by Allen & Unwin, Australia. The book is the first in a series that follows the story of Cadel Piggot.

[[Catherine Jinks]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Australian children's writers, Writers from Queensland, Australian science fiction writers, Australian novelists, People from Brisbane

Catherine Jinks (born 1963 in Brisbane, Queensland) is an Australian writer. She has written over thirty books and has won many awards, including the Children's Book Council Of Australia Book of the Year Award three times, the Victorian Premier's Literary Award, the Aurealis Award for Science Fiction, the Australian Ibby Award, and the Davitt Award for Crime Fiction.

[[Public speaking]]

CATEGORIES: Language, Public speaking

Public speaking is speaking to a group of people in an organized way: to give information, influence or persuade, or to entertain the listeners. 

In public speaking there are five important questions, which are often expressed as "who is saying what to whom, using which medium, with what effects?" 

The Ancient Greeks called public speaking rhetoric; the Romans called it oratory. Until the late 20th century it was also called forensic speaking, or forensics.  Propaganda is an another name for speech for or against some point of view.  In George Orwell's words propaganda is a reflection of prejudices and beliefs that colors people's societies aesthetic judgements. Often they are simply fallacies or conjectures.

[[University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Atlantic Coast Conference, Colleges and universities in North Carolina, 1785 establishments in the United States, 18th-century establishments in North Carolina

The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC) is a university in Chapel Hill, North Carolina.  It was founded in 1789. UNC is one of three schools that claim to be the oldest public university in the United States. To be more exact, UNC is the first school in the U.S. to hold classes and graduate students as a public institution; it began teaching students in 1795 and graduated its first students in 1798. (The University of Georgia was founded in 1785, but did not start teaching classes until 1801; The College of William & Mary was founded in 1693 and taught students at that time, but did not become a public school until 1906.)

[[Michigan State University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Big Ten Conference, Central Collegiate Hockey Association, Colleges and universities in Michigan, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, 1855 establishments in Michigan

Michigan State University (or "MSU" for short) is a public university in East Lansing, Michigan.

[[Big Ten (disambiguation)]]

Big Ten could mean:

[[Athletic]]

Athletic could mean:

[[Big Ten Conference]]

CATEGORIES: Big Ten Conference

The Big Ten Conference is the United States' oldest Division I college athletic conference. Most of its 14 member institutions are in the Midwestern United States.

[[Asteroid spectral types]]

CATEGORIES: Asteroids

Asteroids are assigned a type based on spectral shape, color, and sometimes albedo. These types are thought to correspond to an asteroid's surface composition. For small bodies which are not internally differentiated, the surface and internal compositions are presumably similar, while large bodies such as 1 Ceres and 4 Vesta are known to have internal structure.

A list of types can be found at asteroid spectral classes.

[[Saturn's Gallic group of satellites]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

The Gallic group is a dynamical grouping of the prograde irregular satellites of Saturn following similar orbits. Their semi-major axes range between 16 and 19 Gm, their inclinations between 35° and 40°, and their eccentricities around 0.53.

The International Astronomical Union (IAU) reserves names taken from Gallic mythology for these moons.

Similar mean orbital elements led the discoverers to postulate a common origin for the group in a break up of a larger body.

The diagram illustrates the Gallic group in relation to other irregular satellites of Saturn. The eccentricity of the orbits is represented by the yellow segments (extending from the pericentre to the apocentre) with the inclination represented on Y axis.

The four members of the group are (in order of increasing distance from Saturn):

The group was later found to be physically homogenous, all satellites displaying light-red colour (colour indices B − V = 0.91 and V − R = 0.48)

and similar infrared indices   

Remarkably, recent observations revealed that the largest member of the group, Albiorix, displays actually two different colours: one compatible with Eriapo and Tarvos, and another less red. Instead of the common progenitor, it was postulated that Tarvos and Erriapus could be fragments of Albiorix, leaving a large, less red crater.

Such an impact would require a body with the diameter in excess of 1 km and relative velocity close to 5 km/s, resulting in a large crater with the radius of 12 km. Numerous, very large craters observed on Phoebe, prove the existence of such collisions in the Saturnian system's past.

[[Sulawesi]]

CATEGORIES: Sulawesi

Sulawesi (formerly known as Celebes) is one of the four larger Sunda Islands of Indonesia, and is between Borneo and the Maluku Islands.

[[Flores]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Indonesia, Lesser Sunda Islands, Australasia

Flores is one of the Lesser Sunda Islands, an island arc. Its area is about 14300. It goes east from the island of Java. There are about 1.5 million people in Flores. The largest town is Maumere.

Flores is east of Sumbawa and Komodo. It is west of Lembata and the Alor Archipelago. To the southeast is Timor. To the south is the Sumba strait. The Flores Sea is to the north.

On December 12 1992, an earthquake measuring 7.0 on the Richter scale occurred. It killed 2,000 people in the town of Maumere.

[[Sumbawa]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Indonesia, Lesser Sunda Islands, Australasia

Sumbawa is an Indonesian island in the middle of the Lesser Sunda Islands chain. It has Lombok to the west, Flores to the east, and Sumba farther to the southeast. It is in the province of West Nusa Tenggara. 

Sumbawa is 15,448 km² (three times the size of Lombok). About 1.5 million people live there. It marks the boundary between the islands to the west, which were influenced by religion and culture spreading from India, and the region to the east that was not so influenced.

[[Clothing in Ancient Rome]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome, Clothing

Clothing in Ancient Rome is most commonly known by the toga and stola. 

The cloth was made from wool, linen or hemp. Cotton and silk were also used, more rarely. Leather was also used. The kind of clothing showed status.

[[Tibia (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: Massively multiplayer online role-playing games, Online games, 1997 video games

Tibia is a MMORPG video game released in 1997. Three German science students, Stephan Börzsönyi, Guido Lübke, Ulrich Schlott and Stephan Vogler, thought of the idea for the game. It was made by the German company CipSoft.

[[Royal Library of Turin]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Italy, Turin, Libraries in Europe, Museums in Italy, 1839 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in Italy

The Royal Library of Turin is an important museum in Turin, Italy.

It was started by King Charles Albert of Sardinia in 1839.  

Now it has 187,987 print volumes, 4,403 hand-written volumes (manuscripts), 3,000 drawings, 188 books made before 1501 (incunabula), 5,029 books from the 16th century, 20,987 pamphlets, and many engravings and maps. These works come mainly from collections from Savoy.

The most important antique is a self-portrait of Leonardo da Vinci. This self-portrait is in an underground vault that is resistant to fires, earthquakes, and even airplane crashes.

[[Tibia]]

CATEGORIES: Bones

The tibia, also known as the shinbone, or shankbone, is the larger and stronger of the two bones in the leg below the knee in vertebrates. It connects the knee with the ankle bones and is parallel to the fibula. Additionally it is the second largest bone in the body as its supports a significantly large portion of the human bodyweight. The tibia is essential to everyday movement such as standing and walking as well as jumping and running.

[[Chauzon]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Chauzon is a commune of the Ardèche département in the southern part of France.

[[Chazeaux]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Chazeaux is a commune of the Ardèche département in the southern part of France.

[[Cheminas]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Cheminas is a commune of the Ardèche département in the southern part of France.

[[Le Cheylard]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Le Cheylard is a commune of the Ardèche département in the southern part of France.

[[Theory of Colours]]

CATEGORIES: Color, Works by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Works of philosophy, 1810s books, Science books

Theory of Colours (original German title, Zur Farbenlehre) is a book by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe published in 1810. It contains some of the earliest and most accurate descriptions of phenomena such as coloured shadows, refraction, and chromatic aberration.

Its influence extends primarily to the art world, especially among the Pre-Raphaelites. Turner studied it comprehensively, and referred to it in the titles of several paintings. Wassily Kandinsky considered Goethe's theory "one of the most important works".

Although Goethe's work was never well received by physicists, a number of philosophers and physicists have been known to have concerned themselves with it, including Arthur Schopenhauer, Kurt Gödel, Werner Heisenberg, Ludwig Wittgenstein, and Hermann von Helmholtz. Mitchell Feigenbaum even convinced himself that "Goethe had been right about colour!"

In his book, Goethe shows how colour is perceived in a variety of circumstances, and considers Isaac Newton's observations to be special cases. Goethe's concern was not so much with the measurement of colour phenomenon, but with how qualities of colour are perceived. Science has come to understand the distinction between the optical spectrum, as observed by Newton, and the phenomenon of human colour perception as presented by Goethe.

[[Orthodox]]

Orthodox is a word about beliefs. It is made from two Ancient Greek words, ὀρθός orthós „correct, straight“ and δόξα dóxa „teaching, worship".   Orthodoxy means a teaching that is supposed to be close to the original. 

In particular:

in Christianity:

in Judaism:

Jewish organisations:

[[Will Rogers]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1935 deaths, Aviation deaths, American silent movie actors, American radio personalities, American comedians, Actors from Oklahoma, Vaudeville performers

William Penn Adair “Will” Rogers (November 4, 1879 – August 15, 1935) was a Cherokee-American cowboy, comedian, humorist, social commentator, vaudeville performer and actor.

Known as Oklahoma's favorite son, Rogers was born to a well off Indian Territory family and learned to ride horses and use a lariat so well that he was listed in the Guinness Book of World Records for throwing three ropes at once—one around the neck of a horse, another around the horse's rider, and a third around all four legs of the horse. During his life he traveled around the world three times, made 71 movies (50 silent films and 21 "talkies"), wrote more than 4,000 nationally-syndicated newspaper columns, making him a world-famous figure.

By the mid-1930s, Rogers was loved by the American people, and was the highest-paid movie star in Hollywood at the time. During an around-the-world trip with pilot Wiley Post, Rogers died when their small airplane crashed near Barrow, Alaska Territory in 1935.

[[Tetris DX]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 video games, Game Boy Color games

Tetris DX is a video game released in 1998 for the Game Boy Color console. It is a remake of the Game Boy game Tetris. The game can save high scores, has two new modes, and three profiles for three separate players.

[[Alkene]]

CATEGORIES: Functional groups, Alkenes

In organic chemistry, an alkene, olefin, or olefine is an unsaturated chemical compound containing at least one carbon-to-carbon double bond.  The simplest alkenes, with only one double bond, no rings, and no other functional groups, are hydrocarbons with the general formula CnH2n.

Aromatic compounds are often drawn as cyclic alkenes, but their structure and properties are different and they are not considered to be alkenes.

The double bond in the middle makes them more reactive because the molecule is not saturated. An alkene's unsaturation means that it will take the color out of bromine. The names of alkenes always end with -ene.

[[Afrodisiac]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, Brandy albums

Afrodisiac is the fourth studio album by American R&B/pop singer Brandy Norwood, released by Atlantic Records on June 28, 2004 outside North America and on June 29, 2004 (see 2004 in music) in Canada and the United States. It was mostly produced by Timbaland, with more production from Warryn Campbell, Organized Noise, Walter Millsap, Ron Feemster, Big Chuck, and Kanye West. A lot of critics liked the album, but it did not sell a lot of copies. It has sold less copies than any other album she has made so far.

[[Boy (disambiguation)]]

A boy is a young male, usually human, or may refer to a man regardless of age.

Boy, Boys, The Boy, or The Boys may also mean:

[[Speaker for the Dead]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, Hugo Award winning books, American novels, Nebula Awards, Science fiction

Speaker for the Dead (1986) is a science fiction book by Orson Scott Card.  It is a sequel to the novel Ender's Game, and takes place around the year 5135, some 3,000 years after the events in Ender's Game. Because of space travel, the main character Ender is only about 35 years old.

Like Ender's Game, the book won the Hugo Award (1987) and Nebula Award (1986) for outstanding science fiction novel, making Card the first writer to win both of these awards two times in a row. Speaker for the Dead was updated in 1991. It was followed by Xenocide and Children of the Mind.

[[Xenocide]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Xenocide (1991) is a science fiction book that is third in the Ender's Game series.  It was written by Orson Scott Card and was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1992.  It was followed by Children of the Mind.

[[Children of the Mind]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Children of the Mind (1996) is the fourth, and currently the last, book of Orson Scott Card's popular Ender's Game series, a series of science fiction novels that focus on the character Ender Wiggin. Although Card has written some additional novels that take place with in the Ender Saga, they take place in the middle of the storyline and therefore are not sequals to Children of The Mind.

[[Ender's Shadow]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, American novels

Ender's Shadow (1999) is a science fiction book that was written by Orson Scott Card.  It is a parallel novel, which means it has a story that has some of the events in Ender's Game from the point of view of another character named Bean. This book was first titled Urchin, but it was changed before release.  Ender's Shadow is the first of a series that includes Shadow of the Hegemon, Shadow Puppets, and Shadow of the Giant.

[[Shadow of the Hegemon]]

CATEGORIES: Books by Orson Scott Card, 2001 books

Shadow of the Hegemon (2001) is the second book in the Ender's Shadow series (also called the Bean Quartet) by Orson Scott Card.  It is also the sixth book in the Ender's Game series. It is told mostly from the point of view of Bean, a mostly minor character in the first novel Ender's Game.

[[Bernard Haitink]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Dutch conductors, Grammy Award winners, Honorary Companions of Honour, Honorary Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire, People from Amsterdam

Bernard Haitink GBR (b. March 4, 1929, Amsterdam) is a famous Dutch conductor.

Haitink studied music at the conservatoire in Amsterdam, the town where he was born. He started his career playing the violin in orchestras. Then he learned to conduct.

He became second conductor of the Netherlands Radio Union Orchestra in 1955. He then became chief conductor of the Netherlands Radio Philharmonic in 1957. On 7 November 1956 the famous conductor Carlo Maria Giulini was not able to conduct a concert of the Concertgebouw Orchestra so the young Bernard Haitink conducted instead. This helped him to become famous. Three years later he became a conductor of the Amsterdam Concertgebouw Orchestra and he stayed with them for a quarter of a century. In 1963 he became the main conductor of that orchestra, and in 1999 they gave him the title of honorary conductor.

Haitink has also had jobs outside the Netherlands. He was principal conductor of the London Philharmonic Orchestra from 1967 to 1979, music director at Glyndebourne Opera from 1978 to 1988 and at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden from 1987 to 2002. He also held posts with the Dresden Staatskapelle and Boston Symphony Orchestra, and conducted many other great orchestras of the world.

In 1977, he was given an honorary knighthood in the Order of the British Empire 

Haitink has conducted music by many composers from different periods. He has recorded many great works for Phillips, Decca and EMI. In 2004 his recording of Janáček’s opera Jenufa was given the Grammy Award for the best opera recording.

Haitink has five children from his first marriage. He lives in Switzerland with his fourth wife, who used to be a viola player in the orchestra of the Royal Opera House.

[[Shadow Puppets]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Shadow Puppets (2002), by Orson Scott Card, is the sequel to Shadow of the Hegemon and the third book in the Ender's Shadow series (often called the Bean Quartet). It was first going to be called Shadow of Death.

[[Libération]]

CATEGORIES: Paris, French-language newspapers

Libération (also called Libé) is a French daily newspaper founded in Paris in 1973 by Jean-Paul Sartre.

[[Justice]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Virtues

Justice is a concept on ethics and law that means that people behave in a way that is fair, equal and balanced for everyone.

[[Major (disambiguation)]]

Major derives from Latin maior, which means greater. It is used in many contexts:

[[Shadow of the Giant]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Shadow of the Giant (2005) is the fourth book in Orson Scott Card's Ender's Shadow series (sometimes called the Bean Quartet).

[[Metropolitan Tabernacle]]

CATEGORIES: Baptist churches, Buildings and structures in London

The Metropolitan Tabernacle is a large Reformed Baptist church in the Elephant and Castle in London. It was Charles Spurgeon's church for many years.

[[The Icemark Chronicles]]

CATEGORIES: The Icemark Chronicles

The Icemark Chronicles is a series of books consisting of The Cry of the Icemark, followed by Blade of Fire, and Last Battle of the Icemark.  The books were written by Stuart Hill from Leicester. Fox 2000 Pictures have bought the right to create a movie based on the books.  The first is planned for 2008.

[[Songmaster]]

CATEGORIES: Books by Orson Scott Card, Science fiction books, 1980 books, American novels

Songmaster (1980) is a science fiction book by Orson Scott Card.  The story of the Songmaster occurs in a future human empire, and follows Ansset, a young boy whose singing voice has the power of making people's feelings stronger.  This makes him both a possible healer and destroyer. He is trained in the art of singing so perfectly that his songs can show ideas and feelings better than words.  This book was based on Card's short story "Mikal's Songbird".

[[College football]]

CATEGORIES: College football

College football is American football played by teams of students from different American universities, colleges, and military academies. Play between colleges first made American football popular in the United States. College football is still popular today among students, alumni, and other fans of the sport.

American Football is variation of Rugby introduced by Walter Camp.

The very first match between two college teams using new "American" variation of Rugby was played between Princeton and Rutgers University in 1869. First season of college football had only two matches played. The game became popular quickly in coming years.

[[Eye for Eye]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, Hugo Award winning books

Eye for Eye (1987) is a science fiction novella (or short book) by Orson Scott Card.  It first began in the March 1987 issue of Asimov's Science Fiction magazine.  In 1990 it appeared in Card’s short story collection Maps in a Mirror and also as a Tor double novel, with The Tunesmith by Lloyd Biggle, Jr.. It won the Hugo Award for Best Novella in 1988.

[[Seventh Son (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Seventh Son (1987) is an alternate history fantasy book written by Orson Scott Card. It is the first book in Card's The Tales of Alvin Maker series about Alvin Miller, the seventh son of a seventh son. Seventh Son was nominated for both the Hugo Award for Best Novel and the World Fantasy Award. The idea that the seventh son of a seventh son may have special powers is common in folklore around the world.

Seventh sons have strong "knacks" (magical powers or skills), and seventh sons of seventh sons are both very rare and powerful. In fact, young Alvin appears to be the only one in the world.  His powers make him the target of The Unmaker.  After he recognizes Alvin's powers as those of a Maker, he attempts to kill Alvin.

[[Locus Award]]

CATEGORIES: Literary awards, Science fiction awards

The Locus Awards were started in 1971 and are given to winners of Locus Magazine's yearly readers' poll. Currently, the Locus Awards are given at a yearly banquet. Unusually, the publishers of winning works are given a certificate.

The first Locus Award was given in 1971 for works published in 1970.

[[Nebula Award]]

CATEGORIES: Nebula Awards

The Nebula Award is an award given each year by the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (SFWA), for the best science fiction/fantasy fiction written in the United States.

[[Allergen]]

CATEGORIES: Health problems, Physiology

An allergen is something that causes allergies in humans.

Dust, pollen and pet dander are all common allergens. It is possible to be allergic to anything from chlorine to perfume. Food allergies are not as common, but some foods, like peanuts, nuts, seafood and shellfish cause serious allergies in lots of people.

[[Big Six]]

The term Big Six could mean:

The Big Six is the name of:

Bix Six is a nickname for:

[[Kurt Masur]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Connecticut, German conductors

Kurt Masur (18 July 1927 – 19 December 2015) was a German conductor. He conducted many of the world’s leading orchestras. He especially likes conducting German Romantic music.

[[Province of Lecco]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Lecco is a province in the region of Lombardy in italy.

[[Province of Lodi]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Lodi is a province in the region of Lombardy in Italy.

[[Province of Mantua]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Mantua (or Mantova) is a province in the region of Lombardy in Italy.

[[2008 Sichuan earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in China, Earthquakes in the 2000s, Earthquakes in China, History of the People's Republic of China, Sichuan, May events

The 2008 Sichuan earthquake (c=四川大地震) was a big earthquake in China on May 12, 2008. Thousands of people were killed, thousands more people were missing and thousands were hurt. Millions of people were left homeless after their houses fell down. The earthquake could be felt 58 of kilometres away.

[[Alvin Journeyman]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, Science fiction books

Alvin Journeyman (1995) is an alternate history/fantasy book that was written by Orson Scott Card. It is the fourth book in Card's The Tales of Alvin Maker series and is about Alvin Miller, the seventh son of a seventh son.  Being a seventh son of a seventh son gives him magical powers.

[[Province of Milan]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Milan (or Milano) is a province in the region of Lombardy in Italy.

[[Red Prophet]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Red Prophet (1988) is an alternate history/fantasy book by Orson Scott Card. It is the second book in Card's The Tales of Alvin Maker series and is about Alvin Miller, the seventh son of a seventh son. Red Prophet was nominated for the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 1988 and the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1989.

[[Province of Pavia]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Pavia is a province in the region of Lombardy in Italy.

[[Province of Sondrio]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Sondrio is a province in the region of Lombardy in Italy.

[[Province of Varese]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

Varese is a province in the region of Lombardy in Italy.

[[Prentice Alvin]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Prentice Alvin (1989) is an alternate history/fantasy book that was written by Orson Scott Card. It is the third book in Card's The Tales of Alvin Maker series and is about Alvin Miller, the seventh son of a seventh son (this gives him magical powers). Prentice Alvin was considered for the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 1989 and the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1990.

[[George Winston]]

CATEGORIES: American pianists, 1949 births, Living people

George Winston is a pianist from Michigan in the United States of America. He was born there in 1949 but moved   to Montana as a child. Most of his music is about the four seasons and landscapes in the United States of America.

[[Octane]]

CATEGORIES: Alkanes

Octane is an organic compound with the chemical formula C. It is an alkane with eight carbon atoms. It is commonly used in fuel. It is the most important part of gasoline, because it is the part that lets out most of the energy that comes from gasoline when it is burned. A high octane fuel will be better than a low octane fuel.

[[William Herschel]]

CATEGORIES: 1738 births, 1822 deaths, British composers, English astronomers, Fellows of the Royal Society, German musicians

Sir Frederick William Herschel FRS (15 November 1738 – 25 August 1822) was a German-British astronomer, the greatest observational astronomer of the day. He is best known for discovering Uranus in 1781. He also discovered infrared radiation, binary stars, and published important catalogues of stars and nebulae. Herschel built many telescopes, including the largest in the world at that time.

Herschel was also a musician in his younger days. He played the cello, oboe, harpsichord and organ. He composed numerous musical works, including 24 symphonies and many concertos, as well as some church music. 

[[Caiman]]

CATEGORIES: Crocodilia, Animals of South America

The Caiman is a subfamily of the Alligators. The alligators are divided into True alligators and caimans. Caimans and true alligators develop slower than the rest of the crocodiles. Their lifestyle is also slower. Because of this, they grow older than the other crocodiles. In total, there are 6 species of caimans. All of them live in South America, the Spectacled Caiman can also be found in Central America.

There are three groups:

[[Cluj County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania, Transylvania

Cluj is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Transylvania. The capital of Cluj County is Cluj-Napoca. About 755,000 people live in Cluj County.

[[Tangipahoa Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: 1869 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Louisiana

Tangipahoa Parish is a parish in the U.S. State of Louisiana. The parish was put together from parts of 4 other parishes in 1869. Before it was a parish, many slaves were forced to work on sugar plantations in the area. After the Civil War, the white people continued to be very violent towards the black people they had enslaved. All across the south, there were lynchings against black people. Tangipahoa Parish had more lynchings than any nearby parish. 

[[Quetzalcoatl]]

CATEGORIES: Aztec gods and goddesses

Quetzalcóatl (pronounced: ketsalˈkoːaːtɬ in Nahuatl) is an Aztec sky and creator god. The name is a combination of quetzalli, a brightly colored Mesoamerican bird, and coatl, which means serpent; it is therefore usually translated as "feathered serpent" or "plumed serpent". Quetzalcoatl was often pictured as a snake with feathers, although he was sometimes shown in the form of a human. Quetzalcoatl was associated with the planet Venus, as well as being the patron god of the Aztec priesthood, of learning and of knowledge.

The name Quetzalcoatl was also taken on by several ancient Aztec leaders. Many events and characteristics attributed to Quetzalcoatl are therefore exceedingly difficult to separate from the political leaders who took his name. To name one leader Herman Cortes who sailed to the Aztecs to conquer and to steal their gold. Today Quetzalcoatl is arguably the best known Aztec deity but there were several other important Aztec gods too: Tlaloc, Tezcatlipoca and Huitzilopochtli. 

Other Mesoamerican cultures have worshipped a feathered serpent god as well: At Teotihuacan the several monumental structures have images of a feathered serpent (See the so-called "Citadel and Temple of Quetzalcoatl"http://gomexico.about.com/od/ancientsites/ss/teotihuacan_2.htm). One can see similar images at Chichén Itza and Tula. This has led scholars to conclude that the deity called Quetzalcoatl in the Nahuatl language was among the most important deities of Mesoamerica.

[[Heartfire]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 books, Fantasy books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Heartfire (1998) is an alternate history/fantasy book that was written by Orson Scott Card. It is the fifth book in Card's The Tales of Alvin Maker series and is about Alvin Miller, the seventh son of a seventh son (which gives him magical powers).

[[Pattern matching]]

CATEGORIES: Tools

Pattern matching is a family of tools for finding similar objects in different sources.  In image processing, the pattern matching is used for locating a small image (called model) in a bigger one (called target image).  For searching text, regular expressions are commonly used.

The simple way is to move the model in the target image and measure a similarity in each position.  The position with highest value of the similarity will be accepted as result.  The normalized correlation is used as a common metric for similarity.  

The common way to reduce an amount of calculations is using the image pyramid.  When using the image pyramid, the search is started on the reduced target image, and results are improved in the next, more detailed one.  This process is similar to the human vision.

[[The Crystal City]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 books, Books by Orson Scott Card

The Crystal City (2003) is an alternate history/fantasy book that is written by Orson Scott Card. It is the sixth book in Card's The Tales of Alvin Maker series and is about Alvin Miller, the seventh son of a seventh son (which gives him magical powers).

[[The Tales of Alvin Maker]]

CATEGORIES: Books by Orson Scott Card, Series of books

The Tales of Alvin Maker is a series of books by Orson Scott Card. They are about the experiences of a young man named Alvin Miller who finds out that he powers for making and changing things around him.  It takes place in an alternate history of the American frontier in the early 1800s. It is based on early American folklore and superstition.

[[Atlanta Falcons]]

CATEGORIES: Atlanta Falcons, 1966 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

The Atlanta Falcons are an American football team in Atlanta, Georgia. They are a member of the NFC South of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Falcons joined the NFL as a 1966 expansion team. The Falcon's quarterback is Matt Ryan.  Their uniform is a red jersey with white pants.  An old nickname for the Falcons is Red Birds.  In their 42 years in the NFL, the Falcons have a record of 262-386-6 with division championships in 1980, 1998, 2004, 2010 and 2012. They have played twice in the Super Bowl. This was in 1999 in Miami in which they lost to the Denver Broncos and 2017 against the New England Patriots.

Their current stadium since 2017 is the Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia. From 1992 through 2016, the Georgia Dome was their home stadium for 25 seasons before it was destroyed and replaced.

[[New Orleans Saints]]

CATEGORIES: New Orleans Saints

The New Orleans Saints are a professional American football team in New Orleans, Louisiana, USA. The Saints play in the  Southern Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL).

In 1980, the Saints became the first ever NFL team to finish with 1 win and 15 losses.

After a history of bad luck, the Saints won Super Bowl XLIV in the 2009 season off an interception from Peyton Manning by cornerback Tracy Porter. That was also meaningful because only about four years earlier the city was badly hurt when Hurricane Katrina came through in 2005. 

That was later tarnished as in 2012 they and defesnive coodinator Gregg Williams were exposed to have used a bounty stystem, in which players were paid to deliver especially hard/illegal hits to the opponent. Brees denied knowing of the system. The Saints soon recovered and won three straight NFC South division titles.

The team name was inspired by a popular Mardi Gras song called "When the Saints Go Marching In".

The Saints have several famous players including their starting quarterback Drew Brees. They also have  running back Alvin Kamara, wide receiver Michael Thomas and defensive end Cameron Jordan.

[[Los Angeles Rams]]

CATEGORIES: Los Angeles Rams

The Los Angeles Rams are a professional American football team in Los Angeles, California, United States. Originally known as the Cleveland Rams,  and then later as the St. Louis Rams, they are currently in the Western Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The team has won two NFL Championships and one Super Bowl. Their starting quarterback is Matthew Stafford. They play at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood, California.

The Rams played in Cleveland, Ohio from 1936 to 1945, before moving to Los Angeles, California in 1946. The Rams stayed in Los Angeles until the 1995 season, when the team moved to St. Louis, Missouri and played there until 2015.  In 2015, the team wanted to move back to Los Angeles. Stan Kroenke, the team’s current owner, met with other NFL owners to approve the move. The owners approved the Rams' move to Los Angeles with a 30–2 margin. The Rams returned to Los Angeles at the beginning of the 2016 season. The Rams have won the Super Bowl title in 1999, when they were established in St. Louis.

On May 31, 2009, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported that the Rams were up for sale. The sale price was not known, but Forbes magazine's estimated that the Rams' value was $929 million.

[[Gary Lightbody]]

CATEGORIES: Irish singers, Musicians from Northern Ireland, Rock guitarists, 1976 births, Living people

Gary Lightbody was born on 15 June 1976 in Northern Ireland. He is the lead singer of the alternative rock band Snow Patrol. He first started Snow Patrol under the name "Polar Bears" while at the University of Dundee, Scotland, in 1994.

[[Analog Science Fiction and Fact]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines, Science_fiction

Analog Science Fiction and Fact is an American science fiction magazine. As of 2007, it is the longest currently published magazine of that genre. First published in 1930 in the United States with the name Astounding Stories as a pulp magazine, its name has been changed several times, such as Astounding Science-Fiction in 1938, and  Analog Science Fact & Fiction in 1960.

[[Telephone numbers in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone numbers

Telephone numbers in the United Kingdom are as follows:

[[Telnet]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Computer protocols

Telnet is a common network protocol used on the Internet and also inside a LAN (local network). It was developed in 1969 beginning with RFC 15 and is now defined as IETF STD 8, which is one of the first Internet standards. However, due to its lack of security, Telnet has been replaced with Secure Shell (SSH) on most servers.

Telnet is one of the simplest ways to exchange data between two computers. It allows two computers anywhere on a computer network, including the worldwide Internet, to exchange text and other data in real time. It is still widely used for testing computer programs, and is simple enough that it is included on most computers today. But it allows many people to eavesdrop on the data exchange, which is why it has mostly been replaced by SSH.

[[Ofcom]]

CATEGORIES: Telecommunications

Ofcom is the United Kingdom's regulatory body for telecommunications. This means they are responsible for making sure that the law is followed by television and radio broadcasters.

[[Manuel Marulanda]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2008 deaths

Pedro Antonio Marín, (1930-2008) known by his pseudonym, Manuel Marulanda Vélez, and nicknamed by his comrades "Tirofijo" (Sureshot), apparently because of a reputed ability to accurately aim firearms. He was the main leader of the FARC-EP ("Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia - Ejército del Pueblo"). He was born on May 13, 1930 (a date that has been disputed), in a coffee-growing region of west-central Colombia in the Quindío Department, to a peasant family politically aligned with the Liberal Party during La Violencia.

Marulanda himself changed his political and ideological inclinations to the Communist Party (PCC) sometime during the period of "La Violencia" (roughly 1948 to 1958) that followed the assassination of the Liberal Party's leader Jorge Eliécer Gaitán.

He has been considered to be seriously ill, and his death has been reported several times throughout his long career as a guerrilla, but the status of his health remains uncertain.

In March 2006, Alberto Gonzales, the Attorney General of the United States, announced in conjunction with DEA and Department of Justice officials that the State Department had placed a $5 million dollar reward on Tirofijo's head, or for information leading to his capture.  

According to a Brazilian journal, he seems to have sufffered from some form of cancer. There also seem to have been disputes on leadership (of the FARC) in January 2008.

His death has been reported several times; He seems to have died of a heart attack in May 2008 This has now been confirmed.

A Colombian newspaper published an interview with the defense minister of Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos on the 24th of May, 2008. In it,  Santos said, that Colombian intelligence agents thought, that Manuel Marulanda had died on the 26th of March 2008, either of natural causes, or through a heart attack. FARC commander ‘Timochenko’ confirmed on May 25 Telesur that ‘Manuel Marulanda’ died of a heart attack, as announced earlier by the Colombian government and the Colombian armed forces

This information was confirmed on the 25th of May: Marulanda had died of a heart attack.

[[David Livingstone]]

CATEGORIES: 1813 births, 1873 deaths, British Protestants, Congregationalists, Missionaries, People buried in Westminster Abbey, Scottish Christians

David Livingstone (19 March 1813 – 4 May 1873) was a Scottish medical missionary with the London Missionary Society. He wanted to be a missionary, but he could not get many people to convert to Christian beliefs, so instead, he explored and charted much of southern and eastern Africa. He gave the Victoria Falls their name. He named them after his queen, Queen Victoria.

[[Cincinnati Cyclones]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey teams in the United States, Sports in Cincinnati, Ohio

The Cincinnati Cyclones are a ice hockey team in the ECHL (East Coast Hockey League).  They used to be in the IHL (International Hockey League).  The team plays in Cincinnati, Ohio.  The Cyclones won a championship (the Kelly Cup championship) in the 2007–2008 season.  This was the first time they had won a championship in 18 years.

[[Timor]]

CATEGORIES: Divided regions, Islands of Asia, Islands of Indonesia, Lesser Sunda Islands, East Timor, Australasia

Timor is an island at the south end of the Malay Archipelago, north of the Timor Sea. It is divided between the independent state of East Timor, and West Timor, belonging to the Indonesian province of East Nusa Tenggara.

The island's surface is 11,883 square miles (30,777 km²). The name is a variant of timur, Malay for “east”; it is so called because it is at the east end of a chain of islands.

[[Biggar, South Lanarkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Biggar is a town in South Lanarkshire, Scotland. It is a royal burgh, which means a king or queeen thought it was a very good town when Scotland still had its own royal family. There are many museums in Biggar.

[[South Lanarkshire]]

CATEGORIES: South Lanarkshire

South Lanarkshire is a county in the central part of Scotland. It was formerly called Clydesdale. The Strathclyde police currently governs the county.

Some towns in South Lanarkshire are:

[[North Lanarkshire]]

CATEGORIES: North Lanarkshire

North Lanarkshire is a county in the central part of Scotland. It is small compared to nearby South Lanarkshire.  The area was formed in 1996.

[[Motherwell]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Lanarkshire

Motherwell is a large town in North Lanarkshire, Scotland. It is an important town as many people have to come through it to get to places such as Lanark, Hamilton and Glasgow.

[[Stirling engine]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering, Motors

A Stirling engine is a kind of heat engine that converts heat into useful mechanical energy by the movement of a piston inside a cylinder within the engine. Unlike other commonly found heat engines such as the internal combustion engine used in cars and the steam engine used on railways, it re-uses the same gas for each stroke of the piston so there is no noisy exhaust. The same gas is repeatedly heated and cooled within the engine’s cylinder.

To run it needs a supply of heat to heat its hot parts. This can come from a fire, but also from the sun’s rays, from hot rocks near a volcano or from nuclear energy. It also has cold parts which cool the gas inside it and these are kept cold by a stream of air or water flowing over them.

It was invented by a Scottish minister, Reverend Dr. Robert Stirling in 1816.

[[Wishaw]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in North Lanarkshire

Wishaw is a town in North Lanarkshire, Scotland. It is bordered by Motherwell and Carluke, and is split into several areas such as Netherton, Craigneuk, Newmains, Cambusnethan and Pather. 

One of only three hospitals in Lanarkshire is in Wishaw. Wishaw General Hospital is at the bottom of Wishaw, easy to find as it is on the main A721 road. 

[[FARC]]

CATEGORIES: Terrorism, Communism, Rebel militia groups, History of Colombia, 1964 establishments, 1960s establishments in South America

FARC (or FARC-EP) is the abbreviation of Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia - Ejército del Pueblo. This is the name of a guerrilla organisation operating in Colombia. The group says it has Marxist- Leninist roots. When the name of the group is translated into English, it usually reads Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia – People’s Army.

The government of Colombia, the United States, Canada and the European Union have classified the organisation as a terrorist group.  Other countries, such as Ecuador, Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Cuba and Venezuela do not see the group as terrorist. They instead refer to the group as “insurgents”.March 2008 Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, for example, publicly rejected this classification of terrorists in January of 2008. He called on Colombia and other world governments to recognize the guerrillas as a belligerent force. Chávez said that if they were recognised that way, they would then be obliged to stop kidnappings and terror acts in order to respect the Geneva Conventions.

The FARC was established in the 1960s as the military wing of the Colombian Communist Party. The group started as a guerrilla movement.  It became involved with trading illegal drugs during the 1980s. This caused an official separation from the Communist Party and the formation of a political structure it calls the Clandestine Colombian Communist Party.January 2008

The FARC-EP still claims to be a guerrilla movement. According to the Colombian government, FARC has an estimated 6,000-8,000 members in 2008, down from 16,000 in 2001. Other estimates are higher, including up to 18,000 guerrillas, with the FARC themselves claiming in a 2007 interview that they have not been weakened.

The FARC-EP is present in 15-20 percent of Colombia’s territory. Most of them are in southeastern jungles and in plains at the base of the Andes mountains.

In June 2016, the FARC signed a ceasefire accord with the President of Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos in Havana. This accord was seen as a historic step to ending the war that has gone on for fifty years. On 25 August 2016, the Colombian president, Juan Manuel Santos, announced that four years of negotiation had secured a peace deal with FARC and that a national referendum would take place on 2 October. The referendum failed with 50.24% voting against. The Colombian government and the FARC on 24 November signed a revised peace deal, which the Colombian Congress approved on 30 November.

On 27 June 2017, FARC ceased to be an armed group, disarming itself and handing over its weapons to the United Nations.

[[Lanarkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Lanarkshire

Lanarkshire (Siorrachd Lannraig in Gaelic), also called the County of Lanark, is a county of Scotland.

[[Atoll]]

CATEGORIES: Atolls

An atoll is a kind of island. It is made when a coral reef forms around an island that sinks over many years. In the end, the land is gone, and only the coral reef continues to grow until it becomes an atoll, a group of islands shaped like a doughnut. 

Charles Darwin, who is most famous for his theory of evolution, was the first person to find out how atolls form. He said that volcanoes in the ocean sometimes wear away or sink deeper. Coral growing on a volcano likes to be near the surface, and it keeps growing to stay there.

Most atolls are in the warm parts of the Pacific Ocean or the Indian Ocean.

Some island nations like Kiribati, Tuvalu, and the Federated States of Micronesia have atolls as all or part of their country. 

[[Province of Genoa]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Liguria

Genoa (or Genova) is a province in the region of Liguria in Italy.

[[Province of Imperia]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Liguria

Imperia is a province in the region of Liguria in Italy.

[[Province of La Spezia]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Liguria

La Spezia is a province in the region of Liguria in Italy.

[[Province of Savona]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Liguria

Savona is a province in the region of Liguria in Italy.

[[Evelyn Waugh]]

CATEGORIES: Alumni of the University of Oxford, English novelists, English Roman Catholics, Writers from London, 1903 births, 1966 deaths

Evelyn Waugh (pronounce like the word "war") (28 October 1903 – 10 April 1966) was an English writer. He was born in Hampstead and raised in Golders Green, both in north-west London.  

Waugh is well known for his satirical novels which include Decline and Fall, Vile Bodies, Scoop, A Handful of Dust and The Loved One, and especially for Brideshead Revisited and the Sword of Honour trilogy.  When he was writing these novels he used experiences that he had in his own life.  He often described British aristocracy and high society, making satirical fun of them.  However, in his real life he was also attracted to them.

Waugh was a convert to Catholicism. His travel writings and his diaries and letters have also been published.

He was the father of writer Auberon Waugh (1939-2001). 

[[Dima Bilan]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Russian singers, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Eurovision Song Contest winners

Dima Bilan (Дима Билан; born Viktor Belan on December 24, 1981) is a popular Russian singer. Bilan was in the 2006 Eurovision contest. He sang the song "Never Let You Go."  He finished in second place. In the 2008 contest, he came back with song "Believe" and he won with 272 points.

In February 2007 Bilan started to record his first international album in English in Los Angeles, Miami and in Philadelphia in collaboration with producer Jim Beanz and Ryan Tedder. One of the new tracks will be a duet with one of Timbaland's most successful artists, Nelly Furtado.

[[Thankerton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in South Lanarkshire

Thankerton is a village in South Lanarkshire, Scotland, close to Biggar and Lanark. It is at the bottom of Tinto, a hill.

[[Brideshead Revisited]]

CATEGORIES: English novels

Brideshead Revisited, The Sacred & Profane Memories of Captain Charles Ryder is a novel by the English writer Evelyn Waugh.  It was first published in 1945. The novel deals with subjects such as religion, especially Catholicism, and the love of God.  It tells the story of a family called Flyte.  They are an aristocratic family.  The story is told by a narrator called Charles Ryder.

Brideshead Revisited was made into a television serial for ITV, produced by Granada Television, in 1981. A movie of the book was made in 2008.  The movie makes several changes to the story of the book.  The movie is mostly about the relationship between Charles and Julia.

[[Wilt Chamberlain]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 1999 deaths, African-American basketball players, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Philadelphia 76ers players, Los Angeles Lakers players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, American basketball players

Wilton Norman "Wilt" Chamberlain (August 21 1936–October 12 1999) was an American basketball player. Chamberlain played in the NBA during the 1960s, and many people think he is one of the best players in basketball history. At 7 feet 1 inch, he was the tallest and heaviest player in the league for most of his career, and he was one of the most famous people in the game for many years. He is the first and only basketball player to score 100 points in an NBA game. Chamberlain led the league several times in points, accuracy, rebounds and minutes.  He also won 4 NBA Most Valuable Player awards and was placed in the Basketball Hall of Fame.

He won two NBA championships: the first in 1967, with the Philadelphia 76ers, and the second in 1972, with the Los Angeles Lakers.  Chamberlain also played for several seasons with the Philadelphia Warriors and toured with the Harlem Globetrotters. In 1999, he died from congestive heart failure.

[[Kirkfieldbank]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Kirkfieldbank is a village in South Lanarkshire, Scotland. It is close to Lanark. They, along with New Lanark, participate in the Lanark Lanimers. They have one primary school, Kirkfieldbank primary.

[[Jacqueline du Pré]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 1987 deaths, Converts to Judaism, Deaths from multiple sclerosis, People with multiple sclerosis, Cellists, Disease-related deaths in England, Jewish British musicians, Musicians from Oxfordshire

Jacqueline du Pré OBE (26 January 1945 - 19 October 1987) was an English cellist. Today she is thought of as one of the greatest cellists of all time. She is particularly remembered for her performances of the Elgar Cello Concerto. She was still quite young when she became ill with multiple sclerosis and had to give up playing her cello.

[[New Lanark]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in South Lanarkshire, World Heritage Sites in the United Kingdom

New Lanark is the UNESCO World Heritage Site in the South Lanarkshire, Scotland.

[[Master class]]

CATEGORIES: Music education

A master class is a lesson given by a famous musician or artist to a small group of students.  Music students may often have the opportunity to have a masterclass with a famous musician.  They will have prepared a piece of music to play to the teacher.  There is usually an audience watching at a masterclass.

[[North Medwin River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Scotland, Lanarkshire

North Medwyn is a river in the Lanarkshire area of Scotland. The North Medwyn is a tributary of the River Clyde. This means that it flows into the River Clyde.

[[South Medwin River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Scotland, Lanarkshire

The South Medwyn is a river in the Lanarkshire area of Scotland.  As it flows west it joins the River Clyde.  The two rivers join about 1.5 km south of Carnwath.

[[List of rivers of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of rivers of the United Kingdom, Rivers of Scotland

This is a list of rivers of Scotland, by geography and length (at the end):

[[Hamilton, South Lanarkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Lanarkshire

Hamilton (Hamiltoun, Hamaltan) is a town in South Lanarkshire, Scotland. It is the where the council headquarters for South Lanarkshire are situated.

[[Province of Frosinone]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Latium

The Province of Frosinone (Provincia di Frosinone) is a province in the Lazio region of Central Italy. Its capital is the city of Frosinone.

[[Province of Latina]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Latium

The Province of Latina (Provincia di Latina) is a province in the Lazio region of Central Italy. Its capital is the city of Latina.

[[Province of Rieti]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Latium

The Province of Rieti (Provincia di Rieti) is a province in the Lazio region of Central Italy. Its capital is the city of Rieti.

[[Province of Rome]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Latium

Rome (or Roma) is a province in the region of Latium (or Lazio) in Italy.

[[Derren Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Artists from London, English atheists, English entertainers, English LGBT people, English painters, Gay men, LGBT artists, LGBT broadcasters, LGBT writers, British magicians, Psychologists, Television personalities from London, Writers from London

Derren Victor Brown (born 27 February 1971) is an English magician, psychological illusionist, "mentalist", and painter. He was born in Croydon, south London. Brown studied law and German at the University of Bristol. In 1996, he started doing stage shows. He is especially known for "close-up magic", where the subject is, for example, sitting at a table opposite the performer.

Trick of the Mind, Trick or Treat and The System are some of his television programmes shown on Channel 4.

Brown is openly gay. He was an Evangelical Christian in his teens, and became an atheist in his twenties. This is discussed by Brown in the "Messiah" special, and in his book Tricks of the Mind. An interview as part of Richard Dawkins' two-part documentary series The Enemies of Reason, where Brown explained various psychological techniques used by purported psychics and spiritual mediums to manipulate their audiences, Brown also said he sought to strengthen his belief and provide answers to common criticisms of religion by reading the Bible and other Christian religious texts. He found none of the answers he sought and came to the conclusion that his belief (in Christianity) had no basis.

== Sample episodes from TV series == 

The psychological element in Brown's scenarios seems clear.

[[Fall of a Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 books, Fantasy books

Fall of a Kingdom is the first book in the Farsala Trilogy by American author Hilari Bell. It was previously called Flame! It is also called The Book of Sorahb in the series.

[[Rise of a Hero]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 books, Fantasy books

Rise of a Hero is a fantasy book that was written in 2005 by Hilari Bell. It is the second book in the Farsala Trilogy.

[[Forging the Sword]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 books, Fantasy books

Forging the Sword is a fantasy book that was written by Hilari Bell. It is the third and last book in the Farsala Trilogy.

[[Farsala Trilogy]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, Fantasy books

The Farsala Trilogy is a series of three fantasy books that are written by Hilari Bell.  The books follow the story of Jiaan, Kavi, and Soraya as they try to defeat the Hrum Empire.

[[Watchtower]]

CATEGORIES: Towers

A Watchtower or watch tower is a tower used for surveillance. They were used at city walls to see invaders, when they were far away, so the city could prepare for an attack. A watchtower is also used for watching over people (like a town or a city). Watchtowers were popular in the Middle Ages. They are still often used to watch over prisoners and make sure that they don't escape or leave the area. Forestry uses watchtowers to find fires before they become more dangerous.

[[Hilari Bell]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Writers from Denver, Colorado

Hilari Bell (born in 1958) is an American fantasy writer. She is the writer of several science-fiction and fantasy books including the Farsala Trilogy.

[[Argeș County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Argeș ('ar.ʤeʃ) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Wallachia. The capital of Argeș County is Piteşti.

[[List of rivers of Moldova]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Moldova, Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of Europe

This is a list of rivers of Moldova:

[[List of rivers of Croatia]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Croatia, Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of Europe

This is a list of rivers of Croatia, by length:

[[List of rivers of Bulgaria]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Bulgaria, Lists of rivers by country, Lists of rivers of Europe

This is a list of rivers of Bulgaria:

Note: in Bulgarian, reka means river.

[[Henry A. Wallace]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1936 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Vice Presidents of the United States, United States Secretaries of Agriculture, Politicians from Iowa, US Democratic Party politicians, United States Secretaries of Commerce, 20th-century American politicians

Henry Agard Wallace (October 7, 1888 – November 18, 1965) was the 33rd vice president of the United States (1941–45). He was also the eleventh Secretary of Agriculture (1933–40). In addition, he was the tenth Secretary of Commerce (1945–46). In 1948, he ran for president as a member of the Progressive Party.

[[Cumulonimbus cloud]]

CATEGORIES: Clouds

Cumulonimbus (Cb) is a type of cloud that is tall, dense, and involved in thunderstorms and other intense weather. When seen in a storm, it may be called "thunderhead". The clouds can form alone, in clusters, or along a cold front in a squall line, a line of strong winds. Cumulonimbus clouds form from cumulus clouds (namely from cumulus congestus cloud) and can further develop to a supercell, a severe thunderstorm with special features. Cumulonimbus clouds are the source of most tornadoes.

[[Vertical draft]]

CATEGORIES: Weather, Winds

An updraft or downdraft is the vertical movement of air as weather causes two forces to move.

[[Molecular cloud]]

CATEGORIES: Nebulae

A molecular cloud is a kind of cloud in space. It has enough density and size so that molecules can form, usually molecules of hydrogen (H2). Molecular hydrogen is not easy to find. Instead astronomers use infrared telescopes and radio telescopes to look for CO (carbon monoxide). This lets them find the hydrogen molecules that are also there.

[[Covasna County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania, Transylvania

Covasna (ko.'vas.na, Kovászna) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Transylvania. The capital of Covasna County is Sfântu Gheorghe.

[[Phoenix (spacecraft)]]

CATEGORIES: NASA spacecraft

Phoenix was a robotic spacecraft on a space exploration mission on Mars to search water and life there under the Mars Scout Program.It was launched from Florida on 4 Aug 2007 and landed safely on Mars on 25 May 2008.

Mission scientists used instruments aboard the lander to search for environments suitable for microbial life on Mars, and to research the history of water there. It found that there was water in the soil on Mars. 

The mission ended on November 10, 2008.

[[Bacău County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Bacău (ba.'kəu) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Moldavia. The capital of Bacău County is Bacău, with a population of about 130,000 people.

[[Bihor County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Bihor (bi.'hor), in Hungarian: Bihar (bi.'har), is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Crişana. The capital of Bihor County is Oradea.

[[Semi-presidential system]]

CATEGORIES: forms of government

The semi-presidential system is a system of government where both the prime minister and the president run the day-to-day affairs of the state.

[[Unitary state]]

CATEGORIES: Forms of government

A unitary state is a state whose three organs of state are ruled constitutionally as one unit, with central legislature. It differs from a federal state, in which the authority is divided between the head (for example the central government of a country) and the political units governed by it (for example the municipalities or provinces of the country), and also granting some degree of autonomy to those political subdivisions (e.g. As the permission to create their own regional laws, for example).

These are examples of unitary states:

[[List of mountains in Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Romania, Romania-related lists

This is an (incomplete) list of mountains in Romania.   12 mountains are taller than 2,500 meters in Romania:

[[Oltenia]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of Romania

Oltenia is a historical province and area of Romania, in the western part of Wallachia. Oltenia includes the counties:

[[Exploration of Mars]]

CATEGORIES: Spaceflight, Mars

The exploration of Mars has been an important part of the space exploration programs of the Soviet Union (later Russia), the United States, Europe, and Japan. April 2009

[[Dojo]]

CATEGORIES: Martial arts

A dojo (道場) is a Japanese term which literally means "place of the Way". Dojo are sometimes added on to temples.

[[Gorj County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Gorj (gorʒ) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Oltenia. The capital is Târgu Jiu.

[[Dolj County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Dolj (dolʒ) is a county (județ) of Romania, in Oltenia. The capital is Craiova (population: 314,437).

[[Moldoveanu Peak]]

CATEGORIES: Carpathians, Mountains of Romania

Moldoveanu Peak (Romanian: Vârful Moldoveanu) is the highest mountain in Romania. It is in the Făgăraş Mountains of the Southern Carpathians.

The most-used paths to reach Moldoveanu are over the Vistea Mare Peak (2527m), by paths coming from Podragu, Sambata, or by the Vistea Valley. 

The closest locality is Victoria, on the north side. On the south side it is accessible from northwest of Câmpulung.

[[Făgăraş Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of the Carpathians, Mountains of Romania

Făgăraş Mountains are the highest mountains of the Southern Carpathians, in Romania. The highest peaks are Moldoveanu (2544 m), Negoiu (2535 m), Viştea Mare (2527 m), Lespezi (2522 m), Vânătoarea lui Buteanu (2507 m), and Dara (2501 m).

[[Southern Carpathians]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of the Carpathians, Mountains of Romania, Geography of Serbia

The Southern Carpathians (Carpaţii Meridionali), also called the Transylvanian Alps, are a group of mountain ranges. They divide central and southern Romania, on one side, and Serbia, on the other side. They cover part of the Carpathian Mountains that is between the Prahova River in the east and the Timiş and Cerna rivers in the west. To the south they are bounded by the Balkan mountain range of Serbia.

[[Vistea Mare]]

CATEGORIES: Carpathians, Mountains of Romania

Viştea Mare is a mountain peak in the Făgăraş Mountains of the Southern Carpathians of Braşov county in Romania. It has an altitude of 2527. It is the third highest peak in Romania.

[[Victoria, Brașov]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Romania

Victoria is a town in the western part of Brașov County, Romania, near the Făgăraş Mountains. It has a population of about 10,900 people.

[[Câmpulung]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Romania

Câmpulung, or Câmpulung Muscel, is a city in Argeş County, Romania.

[[Saving]]

CATEGORIES: Money

In common usage, saving generally means putting money aside, for example, by putting money in a bank savings account or investing in a pension plan. It involves using less money or not using money at all.

In a broader sense, saving is typically used to refer to economizing, cutting costs, or to rescuing someone or something.

[[Time deposit]]

CATEGORIES: Banks

A time deposit (also known as a term deposit, particularly in Canada, Australia and New Zealand) is a money deposit at a banking institution that cannot be withdrawn for a certain "term" or period of time.

[[Craiova]]

CATEGORIES: County capitals of Romania

Craiova (/kra'jo.va/), the fifth largest Romanian city, is the capital of Dolj County.  It is on the east side of the Jiu River. This is in the central part of Oltenia.

[[Târgu Jiu]]

CATEGORIES: County capitals of Romania

Târgu Jiu (also spelled Tîrgu Jiu) is the capital of Gorj County, Oltenia, Romania.  It is found on the shores of the Jiu River.  It has a population of 101,562 people as of the year 2002.

[[Mineral exploration]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals

Mineral exploration is the process undertaken by companies, partnerships or corporations in finding ore (commercially viable concentrations of minerals) for mining. Mineral exploration is intensive, organised and professional mineral prospecting and, though it frequently uses the services of prospecting, the process of mineral exploration on the whole is much more involved. Work includes finding, testing, and surveying the deposit, and determining the value and cost of exploiting it.

[[Prospecting]]

CATEGORIES: Metals, Minerals

Prospecting is the physical search for minerals, fossils, precious metals or mineral specimens. It is also known as fossicking or, on a large scale, as mineral exploration.

[[Searching]]

Searching and search can mean:

[[Cycloalkane]]

CATEGORIES: Cycloalkanes

Cycloalkanes are hydrocarbons with the carbon atoms connected in a circle with each atom, in simple forms, connected to two hydrogen atoms.

Here is a list of the first ten Cycloalkanes:

[[Isomer]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds, Stereochemistry

An isomer in chemistry is a chemical compound that has the same molecular formula as another, but it has a different arrangement of atoms in space. In other words, isomers are compounds with the same molecular formula but different structural formula. Different isomers have different chemical properties (that is, they may look, or smell, or taste different from each other). 

There are two main categories: stereoisomers and structural isomers. Structural isomers are isomers with the atoms making up the molecule joined together in different ways. Structural isomers can be classified further as chain isomers, position isomers, function group isomers, tautomers metamers and ring chain isomers.

Stereoisomers have different positions of atoms in space and are much more subtle than structural isomers.  See enantiomer for stereoisomers that are related to each other by a reflection: they are mirror images of each other that are non-superimposable. 

[[Huitzilopochtli]]

CATEGORIES: Aztec gods and goddesses

In Aztec mythology, Huitzilopochtli, also spelled Uitzilopochtli, was a god of war, a sun god, and the patron of the city of Tenochtitlan.

[[Tezcatlipoca]]

CATEGORIES: Aztec gods and goddesses

Tezcatlipoca (teskatɬiˈpoːka) was a central deity in Aztec mythology. He was associated with many concepts. Some of these are the night sky, the night winds, hurricanes, the north, the earth, obsidian, enmity, discord, rulership, divination, temptation, sorcery, beauty, war and strife. His name in the Nahuatl language is often translated as "Smoking Mirror" because of his connection to obsidian, the material from which mirrors were made in Mesoamerica and which was used for shamanic rituals. 

He had many names in context with different aspects of his deity: Titlacauan ("We are his Slaves"), Ipalnemoani ("He by whom we live"), Necoc Yaotl ("Enemy of Both Sides"), Tloque Nahuaque ("Lord of the Near and the Nigh") and Yohualli Èecatl (Night, Wind), Ome acatl ("Two Reed"), Ilhuicahua Tlalticpaque ("Possessor of the Sky and Earth").

On pictures he was usually drawn with a black and a yellow stripe painted across his face. He is often shown with his right foot replaced with an obsidian mirror or a snake - an allusion to the creation myth in which he loses his foot battling with the Earth Monster. Sometimes the mirror was shown on his chest, and sometimes smoke would come from the mirror. Tezcatlipocas Nagual, his animal counterpart, was the jaguar and his Jaguar aspect was the deity Tepeyollotl "Mountainheart". 

The Tezcatlipoca figure goes back to earlier Mesoamerican deities worshipped by the Olmec and Maya. Similarities exist with the patron deity of the K'iche' Maya as described in the Popol Vuh.  A central figure of the Popol Vuh was the god Tohil whose name means "obsidian" and who was associated with sacrifice. Also the Classic Maya god of rulership and thunder known to modern Mayanists as "God K", or  the "Manikin Scepter" and to the classic Maya as K'awil was shown with a smoking obsidian knife in his forehead and one leg replaced with a snake.

[[Tezcatlipoca (disambiguation)]]

Tezcatlipoca (teskatɬiˈpoːka) was a central deity in Aztec religion.

Tezcatlipoca may also mean:

[[Province of Viterbo]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Latium

The Province of Viterbo (Provincia di Viterbo) is a province in the Lazio region of Central Italy. Its capital is the city of Viterbo.

The province is also called Tuscia.

[[North London]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London

North London is the northern part of London, England. The area it covers is defined differently for a range of purposes.

[[Province of Gorizia]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Friuli-Venezia Giulia

Gorizia is a province in the region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia in Italy.

[[Tezcatlipoca (DC Comics)]]

CATEGORIES: DC Comics characters

Tezcatlipoca is a fictional character who appeared in the DC Comics' series Wonder Woman and is a god from Aztec mythology. Tezcatlipoca II is a character who appeared in the series Green Arrow and is a hybrid of human and jaguar, a werejaguar.

[[Province of Trieste]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Friuli-Venezia Giulia

The Province of Trieste (Provincia di Trieste, Tržaška pokrajina) is a province in the autonomous Friuli-Venezia Giulia region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Trieste. It has an area of 212 km², and a total population of 242,235 (2001). It has a coastal length of 48.1 km. There are 6 communes in the province.

[[Province of Udine]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Friuli-Venezia Giulia

The Province of Udine (Provincia di Udine, Friulian Provincie di Udin) is a province in the autonomous Friuli-Venezia Giulia region of Italy, bordering Austria and Slovenia. Its capital is the city of Udine.

[[Province of Pordenone]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Friuli-Venezia Giulia

The Province of Pordenone (Provincia di Pordenone) is a province in the autonomous region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia in Italy. Its capital is the city of Pordenone. Before 1968 it was part of the Province of Udine.

[[Province of Bologna]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Emilia-Romagna

Bologna is a province in the region of Emilia-Romagna in Italy.

[[Province of Ferrara]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Emilia-Romagna

The province of Ferrara (provincia di Ferrara) is a province in the Emilia-Romagna region in Northeast Italy, on the Adriatic Sea. Its capital is the city of Ferrara.

[[Province of Forlì-Cesena]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Emilia-Romagna

The province of Forlì-Cesena (provincia di Forlì-Cesena) is a province in the Emilia-Romagna region in northeastern Italy, on the Adriatic Sea. Its capital is the city of Forlì.

[[Province of Modena]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Emilia-Romagna

The Province of Modena (Provincia di Modena) is a province in the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy in northeastern Italy. Its capital is the city of Modena.

[[Province of Parma]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Emilia-Romagna

The Province of Parma (Provincia di Parma) is a province in the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy. Its largest town and capital is the city of Parma.

[[Province of Piacenza]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Emilia-Romagna

The Province of Piacenza (Provincia di Piacenza) is a province in the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy. Its largest town and capital is the city of Piacenza.

[[Province of Ravenna]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Emilia-Romagna

The province of Ravenna (provincia di Ravenna) is a province in the Emilia-Romagna region in Northeast Italy, on the Adriatic Sea. Its capital is the city of Ravenna.

[[Crackme]]

CATEGORIES: Software

A crackme is a small program designed to test a programmers reverse engineering skills. It is also known by the terms reversemes and keygenmes.

They are created to have a legal way to "crack" software.

[[Province of Reggio Emilia]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Emilia-Romagna

The Province of Reggio Emilia (Provincia di Reggio Emilia or Provincia di Reggio nell'Emilia) is a province in the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy in northeastern Italy. Its capital is the city of Reggio Emilia.

[[Province of Rimini]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Emilia-Romagna

The Province of Rimini (Provincia di Rimini) is a province in the Emilia-Romagna region of Italy. Its largest town and capital is the city of Rimini.

The province of Rimini, with a long touristic tradition, is well known by the beach resorts of Rimini, Riccione, Bellaria-Igea Marina, Misano Adriatico and Cattolica, found over 30 along the coast of the Adriatic Sea.

[[Soldering]]

CATEGORIES: Skills, Electronics

Soldering is a process in which two or more metal items are joined together. They are heated with a soldering iron. A filler metal called solder, with a relatively low melting point melts and flows into the joint, mixing with and melting a little of the items being soldered. Soft soldering is characterized by the melting point of the filler metal, which is below 400°C. Some metals such as iron are rarely soldered, because their melting point is too high. 

Solder used in electronic equipment and for many other purposes has a flux to help clean the material that is soldered. The helping hand tool can make soft soldering easier by holding wires still and close together, and magnifying to see smaller wires or circuit boards.

The process can also be undone, which is called desoldering. This involves removing the solder so that the two items can be separated. This can just be done by touching them with the soldering iron until the solder is liquid, then pulling them apart, but there are a few tools that help when trying to desolder something. Solder wick is made of very thin copper wires woven together into a long strip. When the solder wick is placed between the soldering iron and the solder, the wick absorbs the solder, and the items can be taken apart. A desoldering pump is a long tube that has a small hole on one side and a plunger on the other side that can be pushed down. When the plunger is down, the small hole is placed over the solder, and then the solder is heated with the soldering iron. A button on the side of the desoldering pump can be pushed to make the plunger come back up fast enough that it creates suction that sucks the heated solder off the items and into the pump.

[[Corythosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Hadrosauridae

Corythosaurus is a genus of ornithopod. It was a large plant-eating duck-billed dinosaur. It was about 30–33 feet (9–10 m) long, 6.6 feet (2 m) tall at the hips, and weighed 3-5 tons.

Like other hadrosaurs, it had a hollow, bony crest on top of its long head in the shape of a helmet flattened on the sides (Corythosaurus means "helmet lizard"). Its likely functions were sound projection and recognition. Males had larger crests than females and juveniles.

Corythosaurus was like other hadrosaurids, and could move on both two legs and all fours, as shown by footprints of related animals. It had a long tail stiffened by bony tendons that stopped it from drooping. The hands had four fingers, lacking the innermost finger of the  hand. The second, third, and fourth fingers were bunched together and bore hooves, suggesting the animal could have used the hands for support. The fifth finger was free and could be used to manipulate objects. Each foot had only the three central toes.

[[Loitering]]

CATEGORIES: Types of crime

Loitering means to stand around without doing anything. It can also mean to stop many times, or to wait and procrastinate.

[[Ornithopod]]

CATEGORIES: Ornithopods

Ornithopods are the infraorder of bird-hipped dinosaurs. They started out as small, bipedal running grazers, and grew in size and numbers until they became one of the most successful groups of herbivores in the Cretaceous world.

Their major evolutionary advantage was the progressive development of a chewing apparatus that became the most sophisticated ever developed by a reptile. They had beaks, multiple teeth rows, cheek pouches and true chewing. Efficient chewing means faster digestion, as the material is broken into smaller pieces.

They reached their apex in the duck-bills, before they were wiped out by the Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event with all other non-avian dinosaurs. Members are known from all seven continents, although the Antarctic remains are unnamed, and they are generally rare in the Southern Hemisphere.

They are the sister group to the horned dinosaurs (Ceratopsia) and the hard-headed dinosaurs (Pachycephalosauria).

[[Millionaire]]

CATEGORIES: Money

A millionaire (originally and sometimes still millionaire) is a person whose net worth (or wealth) is at least one million units of a currency (most of the times it will be U.S. dollar). Millionaires are on average 61 years old with $3.05 in value. This includes things like the stock market or real estate, not just money.

In June 2020, there were 13 million people in the world who are classified as U.S.-dollar millionaires.

Another commonly used term is multimillionaire. This is used to call a persona having two or more millions of assets. In financial world the word multimillionaire is used to categorize person with $30 million of assets or more. They are also called high net worth individuals (or HNWIs). 

America alone has 4,700,000 million HNWIs, with New York city having the most (an impressive total of 348,000 of them). Geneva has the highest density of super wealthy people per person in the world. 

[[Sell]]

Sell can mean: to sell

[[Sales]]

CATEGORIES: Money

Sales are the activities involved in selling products or services in return for money or other compensation. It is an act of completion of a commercial activity. A salesman is someone who sells products or services, thus generating sales.  

Salespeople reach out to contacts that might be interested in purchasing the product or service that their company is selling — prospects that demonstrate interest through actions like visiting the company website or interacting with the company on social media. The goal is to reach out to leads who have shown interest in or fit the description of the company’s target customer, in hopes of providing them with a solution that results in a purchase of your product or service.  

[[Returns (economics)]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Returns in economics and political economy, are the distributions or payments awarded to the various suppliers of the factors of production. 

[[Mystery play]]

CATEGORIES: Time Warner, Medieval literature

Mystery plays and Miracle plays are among the earliest formally developed plays in medieval Europe.

[[Province of Avellino]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Campania

The Province of Avellino (Provincia di Avellino) is a province in the Campania region of Italy.

[[Province of Benevento]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Campania

The Province of Benevento (Provincia di Benevento) is a province in the Campania region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Benevento.

[[Province of Caserta]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Campania

The Province of Caserta (Provincia di Caserta) is a province in the Campania region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Caserta. The former royal palace of Caserta is located near to the city.

[[Province of Naples]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Campania

The Province of Naples (Provincia di Napoli, Napulitano: Pruvincia 'e Nàpule) is a province in the Campania region of Italy. Its capital city is Naples, within the province there are 92 Comuni of the Province of Naples.

[[Province of Salerno]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Campania

The Province of Salerno (Italian: Provincia di Salerno) is a province in the Campania region of Italy.

[[Siegmund Nissel]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2008 deaths, Austrian Jews, British violinists, German Jews, Jewish British musicians, Musicians from Munich, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Refugees from Nazism

Siegmund Nissel (January 3, 1922 – May 21, 2008) was an Austrian-born British violinist who played second violin in the famous Amadeus Quartet.

Siegmund (Sigi) Nissel was born in Munich to a Jewish family from Vienna. He began playing the violin at the age of 6. His mother died when he was 9. He was taken by his father to Vienna, where his teachers included Max Weissgärber. Soon the political situation became dangerous for Jews in Austria and so, in 1938, the young Nissel was sent from Vienna to Great Britain.

When World War II started Nissel was interned on the Isle of Man.  There he met the violinist Peter Schidlof and later  Norbert Brainin.  They played a lot of music together.  Then they were set free because they were talented musicians.  They studied with the famous violin teacher Max Rostal.  There they met the British cellist, Martin Lovett whose wife was a pupil of Rostal.  The four men played string quartets together, with Peter Schidlof now playing viola.  At first they called themselves the Brainin Quartet, but then Nissel had the idea of the name Amadeus Quartet (Amadeus being one of Mozart's names).

The Amadeus Quartet (which their friends often called the Wolf Gang), gave its first concert in the Wigmore Hall, London in 1948. The hall was full and hundreds of people were turned away.  After this concert they were invited to perform all over the world.  They became the most famous string quartet group of their time.  They made about 200 recordings.  They were especially known for playing quartets by the great classical composers Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert and Brahms, but they also played works by 20th-century composers such as Bartók and Benjamin Britten (who wrote his third quartet for them).

Nissel was the one who organized all the business side for the group.

When Schidlof died from a heart attack in 1987, the Amadeus Quartet no longer existed. Nissel became a well-known teacher of young quartets at the Royal Academy of Music.

Although he had an operation for a brain tumour in 1960 and also a heart bypass he lived to the age of 86.  He was a family man who had a wife, son, daughter and three grandchildren.  He had many honours including an OBE (1970), and honorary doctorates from York University and the Royal Academy of Music.

[[Dong Xian]]

CATEGORIES: 23 BC births, 1 BC deaths, Chinese politicians

Dong Xian (董賢; 23 BC(?) – 1 BC) was a Han Dynasty politician. Within a few years, he rose from obscurity as a minor official to being the most powerful official in the imperial administration of Emperor Ai.

[[Emperor Ai of Han]]

CATEGORIES: 27 BC births, 1 BC deaths, Emperors of Han Dynasty

Emperor Ai of Han (27 BC-1 BC) was an emperor of the Chinese Han Dynasty. He ascended the throne when he was 20, having been made heir by his uncle Emperor Cheng, who was childless, and he reigned from 7 BC to 1 BC.

[[Empress Fu (Ai)]]

CATEGORIES: 1st century BC births, 1 BC deaths, Emperors and Empresses of China

Empress Fu, formally Empress Xiaoai, was an empress during the Han Dynasty. Her personal name is not known. Her husband was Emperor Ai.

[[Empress Zhao Feiyan]]

CATEGORIES: 30s BC births, 1 BC deaths, Emperors and Empresses of China

Empress Zhao Feiyan (c. 32 BC — 1 BC), formally Empress Xiaochen, was an empress during the Han Dynasty.  Zhao Feiyan https://web.archive.org/web/20110614145125/http://feiyanslimmingtea.com/zhao-feiyan-a-fascinating-history was an ordinary girl born to a poor family in Suzhou, who just happened to be spotted dancing by the Emperor who took her away to the palace.  It was her dancing and beautiful figure that became her legacy.

[[Bypass (surgical)]]

CATEGORIES: Surgery, Cardiovascular system

In medicine, a bypass usually means making another route for the blood to flow.  Sometimes an artery, the channel through which the blood flows, becomes blocked up.  The patient has a bypass operation.  Very often the surgeon will take part of a vein from the patient's leg and move it to the place with the blockage so that the blood can flow round the blocked part.

[[Max Rostal]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1991 deaths, Austrian violinists, British violinists

Max Rostal (born Cieszyn, 7 August  1905; died Bern, 6 August 1991) was a violinist who was a famous violin teacher.  He was Austrian-born, but later took British citizenship.

He was born in Cieszyn and studied with Carl Flesch. From 1930-33 he taught at the Berlin Hochschule, from 1944 to 1958 at the Guildhall School of Music, London and then at the conservatory in Bern, Switzerland.  Many of his pupils became famous players.  They include three members of the Amadeus Quartet.

Rostal played a wide variety of music, including many newly composed works such as Violin Concerto no 2 by Béla Bartók.

He died in Bern.

[[Peter Schidlof]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1987 deaths, Austrian Jews, British violinists, Jewish British musicians, Musicians from Vienna, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Refugees from Nazism

Peter Schidlof (July 9, 1922 – August 16, 1987) was an Austrian-British violist.  He played the viola in the Amadeus Quartet. 

Schidlof was born in Göllersdorf near Vienna, but had to leave Austria when the Nazis came.  He went to Great Britain.  Because he was musically talented he won a scholarship to Blundell's School in Devon, but when World War II broke out he was interned.  It was in the internment camp that met Norbert Brainin and Siegmund Nissel.  They often played music together.  When they were freed they became pupils of Max Rostal who persuaded Schidlof to play the viola instead of the violin.  Together with Martin Lovett the four men formed a string quartet which at first they called the Brainin Quartet, but they soon changed the name to Amadeus Quartet.  The Amadeus Quartet gave their first concert at the Wigmore Hall in 1948.  Soon they became world famous, playing in concerts and festivals in many countries.

Schidlof was a calm man who listened very carefully to everything that was going on.  The others called him "Eagle ears".  The four men played together for nearly 40 years until Schidlof's death.

[[Province of Catanzaro]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Calabria

Catanzaro is a province in the region of Calabria in Italy.

[[Province of Cosenza]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Calabria

Cosenza is a province in the region of Calabria in Italy.

[[Province of Crotone]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Calabria

Crotone is a province in the region of Calabria  in Italy.

[[Province of Reggio Calabria]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Calabria

Reggio Calabria is a province in the region of Calabria in Italy.

[[Province of Vibo Valentia]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Calabria

Vibo Valentia is a province in the region of Calabria in Italy.

[[Province of Matera]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Basilicata

Matera is a province in the region of Basilicata in Italy.

[[Province of Potenza]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Basilicata

Potenza is a province in the region of Basilicata in Italy.

[[337]]

CATEGORIES: 337

[[Font]]

CATEGORIES: Typography

In typography, the terms were set when all printing was done with metal type. Font or fount was all the letters or characters of a single size of a typeface. For example, all characters for 9-point Bulmer is a font, and the 10 point size would be another font.

With the increase in the use of personal computers, the definition of font has changed. The term font is now often used as another name for a typeface. The size of the characters has no effect on fonts when using this definition.

[[Lectern]]

CATEGORIES: Furniture

A lectern (from the Latin lectus, past participle of legere, "to read") is a reading desk with a slanted top. It is usually placed on a stand  some other form of support. Documents or books are often put on top of a lectern to make it easier for someone to read them to other people. For example, for Scripture reading, lectures, speechs or sermons. The height and slant of a lectern can usually be changed to so the person reading can stand properly and make good eye-contact with an audience.

[[Cantor]]

CATEGORIES: Surnames

Cantor can mean:

In mathematics Cantor may refer to:

Cantor as a surname may refer to:

Cantor is a shortened form of these names and terms:

[[Epistle]]

CATEGORIES: Letters, Genres, Christian genres

An epistle (from the ἐπιστολή, epistolē, meaning "letter") is a writing sent to a person or group of people. It is usually written as a formal letter. It was common in ancient Egypt, being taught to scribes. The letters in the New Testament from Apostles to Christians are usually referred to as epistles. Those letters said to have been written by Paul are known as the Pauline epistles and the others as the General epistles.

The epistles of Cicero, and of Pliny the Younger tell a lot about life at the time of the Romans. Ovid produced a number of letters while he was in exile at coast of the Black Sea, Seneca's letters influenced many epistle-writers of later times.

[[Anglo-Saxon architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Architecture

Anglo-Saxon architecture was a period in the history of architecture in England and parts of Wales, from the mid-5th century until the Norman Conquest of 1066. Anglo-Saxon buildings in Britain were generally simple, made from wood with thatch for roofing.

There are few remains of Anglo-Saxon architecture. At least fifty churches are of Anglo-Saxon origin. All surviving churches, except one timber church, are built of stone or brick.

[[Norman architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural styles

The term Norman architecture is used to categorize styles of Romanesque architecture made by the Normans in the land that was under their control or influence in the 11th and 12th centuries.

[[English Gothic architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Gothic architecture

[[Salisbury Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Anglican Cathedrals, Salisbury, Cathedrals in England

Salisbury Cathedral is an Anglican cathedral in Salisbury, Wiltshire, England. The main body was completed in only 38 years, starting in 1220. It is considered to be one of the leading examples of Early English architecture.

The cathedral has the tallest church spire in the United Kingdom (123m/404 ft). Visitors can take the 'Tower Tour' where the interior of the hollow spire, with its ancient wood scaffolding, can be seen. The cathedral also has the largest cloister and the largest cathedral precinct ('close') in Britain (80 acres). The Cathedral contains the world's oldest working clock (from AD 1386). It also has one of the four surviving original copies of the Magna Carta (all four original copies are in England). 

Although commonly known as Salisbury Cathedral, the official name is the Cathedral of Saint Mary. In 2008, the cathedral celebrated the 750th anniversary of its consecration in 1258. It is the seat of the Bishop of Salisbury, the Rt. Revd. Nick Holtam (bishop since 2011). 

[[Fan vault]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements

A fan vault is a form of vault used in the Perpendicular Gothic style. All its ribs are of the same curve and spaced the same.

This beautiful and elegant Gothic style of architecture, at its earliest appears in 1351.  stub

[[Gert Fram]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 books, 20th-century American short stories

"Gert Fram" is a short story that was written by Orson Scott Card in 1977. It is in his short story collection Maps in a Mirror. This short story was the first story Card wrote. It first came out in the July 1977 fine arts issue of Ensign magazine under the pen name Byron Walley.

[[Vezina Trophy]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards

The Vezina Trophy is awarded every year to the National Hockey League's goaltender who is chosen as the best goaltender. At the end of each season, the 30 General Managers of the teams in the National Hockey League vote to determine the goaltender who was the most valuable to his team during the regular season. Before 1981, it was awarded to the goaltender(s) of the team allowing the fewest goals during the regular season; now, the William M. Jennings Trophy is awarded under this previous definition.

[[The Memory of Earth]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, Homecoming Saga

The Memory of Earth (1992) is the first book of the Homecoming Saga by Orson Scott Card.  The Homecoming Saga is a fake story about the first 100 years in the Book of Mormon.

[[The Call of Earth]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, Homecoming Saga

The Call of Earth (1992) is the second book in the Homecoming Saga by Orson Scott Card.

[[The Ships of Earth]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, Homecoming Saga

The Ships of Earth (1994) is the third book in the Homecoming Saga.  It was written by Orson Scott Card in 1994.

[[Homecoming Saga]]

CATEGORIES: Books by Orson Scott Card, Homecoming Saga

The Homecoming Saga is a science fiction series by Orson Scott Card. The series is patterned on the Book of Mormon. Some of the names also come from the Book of Mormon.

[[Earthfall]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, Homecoming Saga

Earthfall (1995) is the fourth book of the Homecoming Saga.  It was written by Orson Scott Card in 1995.

[[Earthborn]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, Homecoming Saga, American novels

Earthborn (1995) is the fifth book of the Homecoming Saga.  It was written by Orson Scott Card, and is the last book in the Homecoming Saga.

[[Tor Books]]

CATEGORIES: Book publishing companies, Companies based in New York City, Publishing companies of the United States

Tor Books is an American book publishing company. It is one of two imprints of Tom Doherty Associates, LLC, based in New York City. It is noted for its science fiction and fantasy books. Tom Doherty Associates also publishes mainstream fiction, mystery, and some military history books under its Forge imprint. Tom Doherty Associates, LLC, was formed by Tom Doherty in 1980, and sold to St. Martin's Press in 1986. Along with St. Martin's Press, Henry Holt, and Farrar Straus Giroux, it is now part of the Holtzbrinck group.

[[King's College Chapel, Cambridge]]

CATEGORIES: Churches in England

King's College Chapel is the chapel to King's College of the University of Cambridge. It is one of the finest examples of Gothic Perpendicular architecture. It is the home of the famous King's College Choir.

[[Christopher Wren]]

CATEGORIES: 1632 births, 1723 deaths, English architects, English astronomers, English mathematicians, Fellows of the Royal Society, People from Wiltshire, Presidents of the Royal Society

Sir Christopher Wren (20 October 1632 – 25 February 1723) was a 17th century English architect, designer, astronomer and geometer. He designed 51 churches in London after the Great Fire of London, including St. Paul's Cathedral.

Wren was born on 20 October 1632 in East Knoyle, Wiltshire, England. He was educated at Westminster School and Oxford University. He showed an early talent for mathematics. He invented an instrument for writing in the dark and a pneumatic machine. In 1657, Wren was appointed professor of astronomy at Gresham College in London. Four years later, he was appointed professor of astronomy at Oxford. In 1662, he was one of the founding members of the Royal Society.

Wren developed an interest in architecture following his studies of physics and engineering. In 1664 and 1665, Wren designed the Sheldonian Theatre in Oxford and a chapel for Pembroke College, Cambridge. Thereafter, architecture became his main focus. In 1665, Wren visited Paris. He studied French and Italian baroque styles.

In 1666, the Great Fire of London destroyed much of the medieval city. Wren produced ambitious plans for rebuilding the whole area. His plans were rejected, partly because property owners insisted on keeping the sites of their destroyed buildings. Wren did design 51 new city churches, including a new St Paul's Cathedral. In 1669, he was appointed surveyor of the royal works. This gave him control of all government building in the country. He was knighted in 1673.

In 1675, Wren was commissioned to design the Royal Observatory at Greenwich. In 1682, he designed a hospital in Chelsea, London for retired soldiers, and in 1696 a hospital for sailors in Greenwich. Other buildings include Trinity College Library in Cambridge (1677 - 1692), and the facade of Hampton Court Palace (1689 - 1694). Wren often worked with the same team of craftsmen, including master plasterer John Groves and wood carver Grinling Gibbons.

Wren died on 25 February 1723. He was buried in St. Paul's Cathedral. His gravestone features a Latin inscription which translates as: 'If you seek his memorial, look about you.'

[[Coventry Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Anglican Cathedrals, Cathedrals in England, Coventry

Coventry Cathedral, also known as St. Michael's Cathedral, is an Anglican cathedral. It is in Coventry, West Midlands, England.

In fact, the city has three cathedrals. The first was St. Mary's, a monastic building, only a few ruins of which remain. The second was St Michael's, a 14th-century Gothic Cathedral, which was largely destroyed by a bombing raid in the Second World War. The cathedral was bombed on 14 November 1940 by the German Luftwaffe, which destroyed much of central Coventry. Nails found in the ruins were formed into a cross and consecrated in the Kaiser Wilhelm Gedächtniskirche in Berlin.

The third cathedral is the new St Michael's Cathedral, built to replace the bombed cathedral. It is an important example of 20th century architecture.

The cathedral is the seat of the Bishop of Coventry. The Right Reverend Dr. Christopher Cocksworth is the current Bishop of Coventry. He is the 9th Bishop of Coventry.

[[World Ocean]]

CATEGORIES: Oceans

The World Ocean, or global ocean is a term used to define all the world's oceans as one large interconnected ocean.

It is divided into the standard  oceans: the Atlantic Ocean, Arctic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Pacific Ocean, and the proposed Southern Ocean around the Antarctic. 

The 'World Ocean' is centered on the southern oceans. The Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans can be seen as bays or lobes going northward from the Southern Ocean. Farther north, the Atlantic opens into the Arctic Ocean, which is connected to the Pacific by the Bering Strait:

The approximate shape of the 'World Ocean' can for most purposes be treated as constant, although in detail it is not. Climate change  continually changes its structure, and continental drift does so over a much longer timescale.

[[Bering Strait]]

CATEGORIES: Straits, Geography of North America

The Bering Strait (Russian: Берингов пролив) is a sea strait between Cape Dezhnev, Russia, the easternmost point (169°43' W) of the Asian continent and Cape Prince of Wales on the edge of the Seward Peninsula, Alaska, the westernmost point (168°05' W) of the North American continent, with latitude of about 65° 40' north, slightly south of the Arctic Circle. The strait was made around 40,000 years ago, when an old landmass between Asia and America known as Beringia was flooded at the end of the last ice age. The strait is passed through by the international date line, making from the view of the Russian side from the Alaskan side like looking at tomorrow. 

[[Monolophosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Tetanurans

Monolophosaurus  was a medium-sized theropod from China that lived during the Jurassic period. 

It had one feature not found on any other meat-eating dinosaur  a long, bony ridge that went from its nose back to the top of its head. The area where Monolophosaurus was discovered showed signs that it was sometimes covered with water, so it is possible that this dinosaur lived on the shore of a lake or sea.

The remains of the type of Monolophosaurus preserve a complete skull and partial postcranium.  In fact, these remains are amongst the most complete from the Middle Jurassic of China. The dinosaur was probably a basal tetanuran.

[[Hart's Hope]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 books, Fantasy books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Hart's Hope (1983) is a fantasy book that is written by Orson Scott Card.

[[Twillingate, Newfoundland and Labrador]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Newfoundland and Labrador

Twillingate is a town that can be found on the Twillingate Islands off the coast of Newfoundland. About 2500 people live in the town. It is known for its scenic landscape and friendly hospitality. Twillingate is about an hour and a half north of Gander and an hour north of Lewisporte.

Twillingate's economy is based around the fishery.

[[Gander, Newfoundland and Labrador]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Newfoundland and Labrador

Gander is a town of almost 10,000 people in the central region of Newfoundland, Canada. It is home to the Gander International Airport, which used to be an important point for aircraft to refuel on long flights. Most of the streets in Gander are named after famous aviators, including Amelia Earhart, Alcock and Brown, Charles Lindbergh, Eddie Rickenbacker, Marc Garneau and Chuck Yeager.

[[Trireme]]

CATEGORIES: Boats, warships, Ancient Greece

A Trireme is an ancient oar-driven warship powered by about 170 oarsmen.  It was long and slender, had three tiers of oars and one sail.  On the bow was a battering ram that was used to destroy enemy ships.  The tip of the ram was made of bronze and could easily slice through the side of a wooden ship.

The Trireme was used by people of the Mediterranean Sea from the 7th to the 4th century BC and gets its name from its three rows of oars on each side, manned with one man per oar. The rowing men were not slaves, but were free men who were paid to row. In Ancient Greece, soldiers (called Hoplites)) had to buy their own armour and weapons so men too poor to afford them became trireme rowers in wartime. They had to have a lot of practice at rowing as, during a battle, the ship had to be able to stop, start and turn very quickly. 

As well as the rowing men, there were 30 others on a trireme. Some of these were sailors who worked the sail, others were soldiers who shot arrows and tried to get onto enemy ships, to attack their crews with swords and spears. The man who steered the trireme was called a kubernete by the Greeks. From this we get the English word Governor, for a person who leads a state. 

Because there were many men crowded onto a small ship, triremes could not stay at sea very long. Often, they came to land each evening. The crew would pull the trireme out of the water and then sleep next to it on the beach. 

Before a battle, the mast and sail were taken off and left on the shore. In battle, triremes would attempt to ram or board each other. Some triremes had catapults and ballistas on them, but they were hard to use in battle. Many ancient sea battles involved hundreds of triremes. In the Battle of Salamis, there were around 360 ships on the Greek side and 600 to 800 ships on the Persian side.  

[[Fabrosauridae]]

CATEGORIES: Ornithischia

Fabrosauridae is a proposed family of primitive ornithischian dinosaurs from late Triassic and Jurassic. The proposed "Fabrosaurs" descended from a Lesothosaurus-like animal. The group is not established; it appears to be polyphyletic, and its members may come from several other better-known groups.

[[A Planet Called Treason]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 books, 1988 books, Books by Orson Scott Card

A Planet Called Treason (1979) is a science fiction book that was written by Orson Scott Card.  After being changed, the book was renamed Treason (1988).

[[Saints (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Saints (1983) is a historical fiction book that was written by Orson Scott Card.  Saints tells about the fictional character named Dinah Kirkham, from Manchester, England, who goes to the United States and becomes one of the multiple wives of Joseph Smith, who is founder of the Latter Day Saint movement.

Saints was originally named Woman Of Destiny, even though Orson Scott Card was against this.

[[Hot Sleep]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 books, Science fiction books, Books by Orson Scott Card

Hot Sleep: The Worthing Chronicle (1979) is a science fiction book that was written by Orson Scott Card.  Although it is now out of print, Card's book The Worthing Chronicle (1983) has some of the same story.

[[The Worthing Chronicle]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, Science fiction books

The Worthing Chronicle (1983) is a science fiction book that was written by Orson Scott Card.  This book is out of print, but it was released again in a collection of short stories called The Worthing Saga in 1990.

[[Wyrms (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 books, Books by Orson Scott Card, American novels

Wyrms (1987) is a science fiction book that was written by Orson Scott Card. The story looks at desire, wisdom, and human will.

[[2008 WWE draft]]

CATEGORIES: WWE Raw, WWE SmackDown!, Extreme Championship Wrestling, WWE Drafts, Sports in San Antonio, Texas, 2008 in professional wrestling, 2008 in Texas, 21st century in San Antonio, Texas

The 2008 World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Draft was the fifth yearly (and sixth overall) Draft held by WWE. The Draft was held on June 23, 2008 in San Antonio, Texas from the AT&T Center. The Draft took place live for three hours on WWE's flagship program, Raw, which aired on the USA Network.

[[Poplar Forest]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Virginia, 1812 establishments in the United States, 1810s establishments in Virginia

The Poplar Forest is the retreat home of Thomas Jefferson, third president of the United States of America near Lynchburg, Virginia. 

His wife inherited the 4,819 acre plantation and he built an octagonal retreat  home there which was basically complete in the year 1812.  The home contains a central dining room in the shape of a cube, measuring 20 feet on all sides and lit from a skylight above. Currently under restoration, the building gives a fascinating glimpse of how things were built in those days, as well as showing off a few of Jefferson's inventions such as the triple sash window. Jefferson used the property as a respite from the busy Monticello, which was always welcoming visitors, and spent most of his time there only with close family members. He had a library containing 700 volumes and he used his time there to communicate with his 'absent friends', in other words, to catch up on his written correspondence.

[[Interstate 8]]

CATEGORIES: Interstate Highways, 1964 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in California, 20th-century establishments in Arizona

Interstate 8 or I-8 is an Interstate Highway that runs from Interstate 10 near Casa Grande, Arizona to San Diego, California. The route is 348.25 long.

[[Regis Philbin]]

CATEGORIES: American game show hosts, American television talk show hosts, Singers from New York City, 1931 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from coronary artery disease, Television personalities from New York City, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Connecticut

Regis Francis Xavier Philbin (ˈ; August 25, 1931 – July 24, 2020) was an American media personality, actor and singer, known for hosting talk and game shows since the 1960s. Sometimes called (alternatively attributed to James Brown) "the hardest working man in show business", he held the world record for the most time spent in front of a television camera. He was most widely known for Live! with Regis and Kelly (previously Live! with Regis and Kathie Lee), Who Wants to Be a Millionaire, Million Dollar Password, and for hosting the first season of America's Got Talent.

[[Bill Moggridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2012 deaths, British people, Designers

William (Bill) Moggridge, (25 June 1943 – 8 September 2012) was a British industrial designer and co-founder of the Silicon Valley-based design firm IDEO. He helped design what was arguably the first laptop computer, the GRiD Compass. He was in favour of user-centered design process in product development cycles and also worked towards popularizing interaction design as a mainstream discipline.

Moggridge was the author of Designing Interactions, published in October 2006. 978-0-262-13474-3

He was also involved in design education in the United Kingdom and the United States; teaching at the Royal College of Art, the London Business School and Stanford University.

[[Before I Self Destruct]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, 50 Cent, Hip hop albums

Before I Self Destruct is 50 Cent's fourth album. It was released in 2009.

On the track "The End of My Career", on one of 50 Cent's mixtapes, he said that he has already recorded 12 tracks for the album.

[[Udanoceratops]]

CATEGORIES: Ceratopsids

Udanoceratops had a very large skull (1.5 times the size of the next largest protoceratopid Montanoceratops) with no nasal horn. It most resembles Leptoceratops but with larger nasal apertures, less teeth in the upper jaw and more in the lower jaw - there are also differences in its teeth and skull bones. It has a mixture of advanced and primitive features and may turn out to be a ceratopsid.

[[Thai]]

Thai might mean:

[[Antonio Pappano]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, British conductors, Living people

Antonio Pappano (born December 30, 1959 in Epping) is a British conductor and pianist of Italian origin. He is the conductor of the orchestra of the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden in London, and l'Orchestra dell'Accademia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia in Rome.

Pappano was born in England, but his family had come from Italy. When he was 13 years old, he moved with his family to Connecticut, in the United States. There he had his musical training, learning to play the piano as well as composition and conducting. He became a rehearsal accompanist at the New York City Opera.

Pappano is the youngest conductor to lead the Orchestra of the Royal Opera House in London, accompanying both the Royal Opera and Royal Ballet. He is also an excellent piano accompanist.

[[Boris Berezovsky (pianist)]]

CATEGORIES: Russian pianists, 1969 births, Living people

Boris Berezovsky (Russian: Бори́с Вади́мович Березо́вский; born Moscow, 4 January 1969) is a famous Russian pianist. Berezovsky studied at the Moscow Conservatory.  In 1988 he became well known in the West when he gave a recital in the Wigmore Hall in London. Two years later he won the Gold Medal at the 1990 International Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow.

Boris Berezovsky gives concerts all over the world.  He plays concertos with many of the great orchestras including the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra,  New York Philharmonic, Philadelphia Orchestra, Orchestre de la Monnaie, Rotterdam Philharmonic, Danish National Radio Symphony Orchestra, NDR Hamburg, Hessischer Rundfunk, New Japan Philharmonic, City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and with conductors such as Kurt Masur, Wolfgang Sawallisch, Vladimir Ashkenazy, Mikhail Pletnev and Antonio Pappano. Berezovsky has also made many recordings.

Berezovsky has a daughter, Evelyne Berezovsky (born 1991), who is also a pianist. He now lives in Brussels. Boris is an excellent jazz pianist and performs with his trio in Russian clubs.

[[Balto]]

CATEGORIES: Individual dogs

Balto was the name of a Siberian Husky, born in 1923 and died 1933. He was a back up dog after TOGO. Balto received an outsized portion of the fame from the journey, including more acclaim than Togo. Hence, Seppala bred, named, raised and trained Balto but did not race with him. In a 1927 New York Times article, he claimed that a forgotten dog named Fox has been co-lead with Balto on Kaasen’s team.

In January 1925 Nome, Alaska needed medicine for a diphtheria epidemic. First, a ship tried to bring the medicine but ice was closing into the Bering Sea. The ship could not get to Nome. Next, they tried to bring the medicine by airplane. They could not because there was a blizzard (snow storm). The winds were too strong for the plane. So the medicine was sent by train from Anchorage, Alaska to Nenena, Alaska. Then sled dogs took turns carrying the medicine to Nome. The dog which ran the longest was Togo. Balto was the final dog. He lead the team into Nome. The medicine saved many children (Almost all of the children). Balto, the other dogs and the men who carried the medicine were given a hero's welcome. A few months later in New York City a statue of Balto was placed in Central Park. It is still there today.

[[Colin Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2013 deaths, British conductors, Companions of Honour, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, Grammy Award winners, Knights Bachelor, Musicians from Surrey, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany

Sir  Colin Rex Davis, CH, CBE, (Weybridge, Surrey, 25 September 1927 – London, England 14 April 2013), was a British conductor. He was born in Weybridge, Surrey, UK. Davis went to school at Christ's Hospital before studying the clarinet at the Royal College of Music in London. He was not allowed to take conducting lessons there because he did not play the piano well enough. He still managed to get some experience as conductor of the Kalmar Orchestra with other music students.

In 1952 Davis worked at the Royal Festival Hall, and in the late 1950s conducted the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra. He started to become well-known when he was suddenly asked to conduct Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's opera Don Giovanni at the Royal Festival Hall because Otto Klemperer was ill. A year later, in 1960, he conducted Mozart's The Magic Flute at Glyndebourne because Thomas Beecham was ill.

In the 1960s he worked at Sadler's Wells Opera and with the London Symphony Orchestra. He was Chief Conductor of the BBC Symphony Orchestra. In 1971 he took over from Georg Solti as principal conductor at the Royal Opera House. He stayed there until 1986. He particularly liked conducting the operas of Michael Tippett, giving the first performances of The Knot Garden (1970), and The Ice Break (1977). In 1977 he became the first English conductor to appear at the Bayreuth Festival where he conducted Tannhäuser.

Davis was Principal Guest Conductor of the Boston Symphony Orchestra from 1972 to 1984. He was Chief Conductor at the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra from 1983 to 1993. In 1991, Davis was given the honorary title 'Conductor Laureate' of the Staatskapelle Dresden, the first conductor in the orchestra's history to hold that title. In 1995, Davis became Principal Conductor of the London Symphony Orchestra. He stayed there until 2006, when the orchestra gave him the title of President. From 1998-2003, he was also Principal Guest Conductor of the New York Philharmonic.

He has received many honours, including CH and CBE 

In 1949, Davis married the soprano April Cantelo. They had two children, Suzanne and Christopher. Their marriage ended in 1964, and in that same year, Davis married the young Iranian woman who had been the family au pair, Ashraf “Shamsi” Naini. To satisfy both the Iranian and British authorities, the couple were married three times, once in Iran and twice in the UK, in the Iranian Embassy as well as in a regular UK civil ceremony. They have five children.

On 14 April 2013, it was announced via the London Symphony Orchestra, of which Davis had been the president, that he had died that evening, aged 85, after a short illness.

Davis was not related to the conductor Sir Andrew Davis.

[[Sea caves]]

CATEGORIES: Caves

Sea caves are a hollow chamber in a coastal cliff, made by the pounding power of crashing waves. "Sea arches" and "sea stacks" are also carved from these rocky cliffs.Sea waves carry on both erosional and depositional activities .The process of sea erosion is called marine erosion. 

[[Valery Gergiev]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Russian conductors

Valery Abisalovich Gergiev Вале́рий Абиса́лович Ге́ргиев(born Moscow, 2 May 1953) is a Russian conductor and opera company director of Ossetian birth. He is general director and artistic director of the Mariinsky Theatre, principal conductor of the London Symphony Orchestra and principal guest conductor of the Metropolitan Opera, New York. Valery Gergiev is the artistic director of the White Nights Festival in St. Petersburg.

[[Chris Rock]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, Actors from South Carolina, African American actors, African American comedians, African American movie directors, African American movie producers, African American writers, American movie actors, American screenwriters, American stand-up comedians, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, American voice actors, Comedians from New York, Movie directors from New York, Writers from New York City, Writers from South Carolina, Comedians from South Carolina, Comedians from New York City

Chris Rock (born February 7, 1965) is an American comedian, actor, producer, screenwriter and director. He was born in Andrews, South Carolina and raised in Brooklyn, New York City. He is known for his jokes about racial stereotypes; he talks a lot about differences that are common between black people and white people in the United States. Rock has been in many television shows, such as Everybody Hates Chris and movies, such as Dogma.

[[Province of Bari]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Apulia

Bari is a province in the region of Apulia in Italy.

[[Province of Brindisi]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Apulia

Brindisi is a province in the region of Apulia in Italy.

[[Province of Foggia]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Apulia

Foggia is a province in the region of Apulia in Italy.

[[Province of Lecce]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Apulia

Lecce is a province in the region of Apulia in Italy.

[[Province of Taranto]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Apulia

Taranto is a province in the region of Apulia in Italy.

[[Province of L'Aquila]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Abruzzo

The province of L'Aquila (provincia dell'Aquila) is a province in the Abruzzo region of Southern Italy. Its capital is the city of L'Aquila.

It is the largest province of the region but the one with fewest people living in it; it is a landlocked province, that is, surrounded by other provinces by all sides.

[[Province of Chieti]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Abruzzo

The province of Chieti (provincia di Chieti) is a province in the Abruzzo region of Southern Italy. Its capital is the city of Chieti, and the province borders the Adriatic Sea.

[[Province of Teramo]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Abruzzo

The province of Teramo (provincia di Teramo) is a province in the Abruzzo region of Central Italy. Its capital is the city of Teramo, and the province borders the Adriatic Sea.

[[Province of Pescara]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Abruzzo

The province of Pescara (provincia di Pescara) is a province in the Abruzzo region of Southern Italy, along the Adriatic Sea. Its capital is the city of Pescara.

[[Province of Perugia]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Umbria

The province of Perugia (provincia di Perugia) is a province in the Umbria region of Central Italy. Its capital is the city of Perugia. The city of Perugia is also the capital of Umbria.

[[Province of Terni]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Umbria

The Province of Terni (Provincia di Terni) is a province in the Umbria region of Central Italy. Its capital is the city of Terni.

[[Spurgeon's]]

CATEGORIES: Charities, Christian organizations, Charles Spurgeon

Spurgeon's (it used to be called Spurgeon's Child Care) is a charity based in England. It has international projects in Mexico, Africa and Eastern Europe. Spurgeon's was founded in 1867 by Charles Spurgeon. He started it to care for fatherless boys. The first girls were accepted in 1879.

[[Mastodon]]

CATEGORIES: Extinct elephants, Megafauna

Mastodons or Mastodonts are elephants of the extinct genus Mammut and the family Mammutidae. Mastodons became extinct about 11,000 years ago. 

Mastodons, with mammoths, modern elephants and various older families, are members of the order Proboscidea. As adults they stood between 2.5 and 3 meters (8-10 feet) at the shoulder and weighed between 3500 and 5400 kilograms (4-6 tons). 

Mastodons were browsers on leaves and branches, as shown by their molar teeth.

[[Lost Boys (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 books, Horror novels, Books by Orson Scott Card

Lost Boys (1992) is the first horror novel written by Orson Scott Card.

[[Isleham]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Cambridgeshire, Villages in Cambridgeshire

Isleham is a small village and civil parish in the English county of Cambridgeshire.

[[River Lark]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Lark is a river in England. It flows into the River Great Ouse.

[[New Park Street Chapel]]

CATEGORIES: Baptist churches, Buildings and structures in London, Charles Spurgeon

The New Park Street Chapel was a Reformed Baptist church in Southwark, London. It was built in 1833. The Metropolitan Tabernacle at Elephant and Castle still worships there.

[[Exeter Hall]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in England

Exeter Hall was a hall on the north side of The Strand, London, England. It was built between 1829 and 1831. The hall could hold about 3,000 people. It was used for religious and philanthropic meetings. 

[[William Jewell College]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities in the United States, Colleges and universities in Missouri, 1849 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Missouri

William Jewell College is a private, four-year Christian liberal arts college. It has around 1,274 undergraduate students. It is in Liberty, Missouri, United States

[[Liberty, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri, County seats in Missouri

Liberty is a city in Clay County, Missouri. It is suburb of Kansas City, Missouri. At the 2000 census the city population was 26,232. It is the county seat of Clay County. Liberty is also home to William Jewell College.

[[WWE Draft]]

CATEGORIES: WWE Drafts

The World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Draft Lottery, also known as the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Draft, is a device used to provide new brand competition and to refreshen the promotion's rosters. The Draft was first used during the brand extension of 2002 and the brand extension of 2006, but was officially created and used in 2004, 2005, 2007, and 2008.

[[Battle of Iwo Jima]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 in Japan, Pacific battles of World War II

The Battle of Iwo Jima was the American capture of the Japanese island of Iwo Jima during the Pacific Campaign of World War II. The USA needed to capture Iwo Jima to be able to defeat Japan. Many films were made about it, for example Flags of our Fathers and Letters from Iwo Jima, that were both directed by Clint Eastwood.

It lasted from 19 February – 26 March 1945. It was a major battle in which the United States Armed Forces captured the island of Iwo Jima from the Japanese Empire.

The Americans wanted to capture the island, including its three airfields, and use this area for attacks on the Japanese main islands. This five-week battle had violent fighting.

After suffering such heavy losses, people questioned why the US went into the battle. The island was not useful for the Navy or Air Force.

The Imperial Japanese Army had thick defenses and underground tunnels for cover. The Americans had ships that could fire on the island and total control of the air. 

This invasion was the first American attack on Japanese home territory.

The Japanese general, Tadamichi Kuribayashi, and his soldiers refused to surrender. He and his officers said they would fight until they died.

There were 22,000 Japanese soldiers on Iwo Jima at the beginning of the battle, and only 216 were taken prisoner at the end.

About 3,000 Japanese soldiers kept fighting for weeks.

With no retreat and no possibility of reinforcements, the Japanese had dug in and prepared to fight until they died. This meant that winning the battle, meant the Americans would have to destroy the entire Japanese force stationed on the island.

The battle was made famous by Joe Rosenthal's photograph of the raising of the U.S. flag on top of the 166 Mount Suribachi.

This photo became an important image of this battle, of the war in the Pacific, and of the Marine Corps.

[[Le Chatelier's principle]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry, Physics

Le Châtelier's principle is a principle used in Chemistry and Physics to describe how a system at equilibrium reacts to external changes. 

[[Continental United States]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the United States

The continental United States is the area of the United States of America that is located in the continent of North America. It includes 49 of the 50 states (48 of which are located south of Canada and north of Mexico, known as the "lower 48 states", the other being Alaska) and the District of Columbia, which contains the federal capital, Washington, D.C. The only state which is not part of this is Hawaii (as they are islands in the Pacific Ocean and not part of North America).

"On May 14, 1959, the U.S. Board on Geographic Names issued the following definitions based partially on the reference in the Alaska Omnibus Bill, which defined the Continental United States as "the 49 States on the North American Continent and the District of Columbia..." The Board reaffirmed these definitions on May 13, 1999."

Some sources incorrectly mix up the continental United States with the contiguous United States (which consists simply of the lower 48 states and the District of Columbia). The contiguous United States (also known as the United States Mainland) does not include Alaska, Hawaii, or any other territories under the control of the United States.

Alaska is unique among the US states as it is part of the North American continent, meaning it is attached via Canada, and so is part of the "Continental United States". However, Alaska is not part of the "Contiguous United States", because it is not attached directly to the lower 48 states.

[[Bible Belt]]

CATEGORIES: Christianity in the United States, Regions of the United States

The Bible Belt is term for a part of the United States in which many people believe in conservative Evangelical Protestantism. This makes it a dominant part of the culture.

[[British people]]

CATEGORIES: British people

Britons, British people, or the British are people from Britain – either from the United Kingdom or the island of Great Britain. In history, the people of the British Empire, and later the British Commonwealth, were also named British or Britons.

The first people to be named Britons were the people of ancient Britain, the ancient Britons. The ancient Romans named the people of Britain in Britons. People from Roman Britain called themselves in no. Bede used the spelling in no, the spelling of which was possibly learned from the Old English word of the same meaning.

Originally, the word Briton in the English language meant a person from one of the Brythonic languages-speaking peoples in Great Britain and northern France: mostly the people of Strathclyde, Wales, Cornwall, and Brittany. This meaning of the word was used in Middle English from the 13th century and after. In the 16th and 17th centuries, Briton could also be a name for Welsh people.

The use of Britons to mean all the people of Britain was not common in the English language before the early 18th century. It became more usual after the Acts of Union 1707 joined together the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland into the United Kingdom of Great Britain. The word Briton was frequently used in the 18th and 19th centuries with the suggestion of "qualities of bravery and fortitude". The rare word "Britoness" was sometimes used in the past for women from Britain. Writers like Edmund Spenser, Thomas Babington Macaulay, and Alfred, Lord Tennyson used it for strong women like the ancient British queen Boudica (who fought the Romans) and the English queen, Elizabeth I (whose Royal Navy defeated the Spanish Armada).

[[Scissor-tailed flycatcher]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of North America, Passeriformes, Symbols of Oklahoma

The scissor-tailed flycatcher (Tyrannus forficatus), also known as the Texas bird-of-paradise and swallow-tailed flycatcher, is a type of bird that lives in North America, in the United States and Mexico. It eats insects.  It is grey on top and light grey underneath with pink on the sides.  The wings are dark and it has a long black tail.  It is named "scissor-tailed" because its tail looks like a pair of scissors.  The tail is shorter when it is young, and the bird is not as colorful.

The scissor-tailed flycatcher is closely related to the kingbirds. It is also the state bird of Oklahoma. The common name is derived from its former Latin name-Muscivoria forficata, meaning "flying"-"scissors" and "to devour."  In Oklahoma, scissortails can be found on open prairies, along tree-lined roads, and along roadsides perched on fences, limbs and in isolated trees.  They consume a great number of grasshoppers, crickets, spiders, and other ground-dwelling insects  making them economically important and popular with farmers and ranchers.

Soon after the birds arrive in the state, the males begin their famous "sky dance," a popular site along roadsides during spring and early summer. After climbing about 100 feet in the air, the male makes a series of V-shaped flights, then plunges down in an erratic zigzag course often somersaulting  while uttering a rolling, cackling call.  The performance has been described as "an aerial ballet of incomparable grace." Nesting usually takes place in an isolated tree 7–30 feet  above ground. Often two broods of 4-6 each are raised during the summer.

Scissor-tailed flycatchers are easily identified by their long scissor-like tail, which may reach nine inches in length.  During flight the bird opens its tail like a pair of scissors and folds or closes the "scissors" when perching. The nape of its neck and its back are pearl gray, and the breast is white. Wings are sooty black with a touch of scarlet at the shoulders. The principal threat to scissortails is poaching.  A great number of birds have been killed by poachers who wanted only the bird's tail.

[[Eastern redbud]]

CATEGORIES: Fabaceae, Symbols of Oklahoma

Cercis canadensis L. (also known as the eastern redbud) is a large shrub or small tree native to eastern North America from southern Ontario, Canada south to northern Florida, United States. The tree is also the state tree of Oklahoma.

[[Black Mesa]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Oklahoma

Black Mesa is a mountain in Oklahoma. It is the highest point in the state.

[[Exit]]

EXIT or exit (lat. exit "he/she leaves", pl. exeunt) may mean:

[[Cassowary]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of Australia, Ratites, Endangered species, Flightless birds, Struthioniformes, Birds of Oceania

Cassowaries  (Casuarius) are a kind of large bird which cannot fly. They are part of a group of flightless birds called the ratites. The ostrich, emu, moa (now extinct) and small kiwi are other ratites.

The cassowary lives in the tropical rainforests of New Guinea and north eastern Australia. They are shy birds living deep in the forest. They can also become angry, and they will attack people. This makes it hard to learn about them.

A group of cassowaries is called a shock. 

[[Province of Belluno]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Veneto

The Province of Belluno (Provincia di Belluno; German: Provinz Belluno) is a province in the Veneto region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Belluno.

[[Province of Padua]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Veneto

Padua (or Padova) is a province in the region of Veneto in Italy.

[[Province of Rovigo]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Veneto

The Province of Rovigo (Provincia di Rovigo) is a province in the Veneto region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Rovigo.

[[Oded Fehr]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Israeli movie actors, Israeli television actors, Israeli voice actors, Jewish Israeli actors, People from Tel Aviv

Oded Fehr (עודד פהר; born 23 November 1970 in Tel Aviv) is an Israeli film and television actor. He acted in The Mummy.

[[Cascade]]

A cascade is 

Cascade may also mean:

[[Dromaeosauridae]]

CATEGORIES: Theropods, Dromaeosauridae

Dromaeosaurs are a family of bird-like theropod dinosaurs. They include the famous Velociraptor and Deinonychus. They were small to medium-sized feathered carnivores which flourished in the Cretaceous period. 

They are often called raptors, a term popularized by the movie Jurassic Park. They were fast-running predators.

Dromaeosaurs had a world-wide distribution. They first appeared in the Middle Jurassic, 167 million years ago (mya). The larger types are not found before about 124 mya in the Lower Cretaceous, and are only found in the northern hemisphere. They survived until the end of the Cretaceous, 65.5 mya at the K/T extinction event.

The presence of dromaeosaurs in the Middle Jurassic is shown by isolated fossil teeth, though no dromaeosaurid body fossils have been found this early.

[[Province of Treviso]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Veneto

The Province of Treviso (Provincia di Treviso) is a province in the Veneto region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Treviso.

[[Province of Venice]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Veneto

Venice (or Venezia) is a province in the region of Veneto in Italy.

[[Bullfrog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Symbols of Oklahoma

The American bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana or Lithobates catesbeianus) is a semi-aquatic frog. It belongs to the family Ranidae, or 'true frogs'. Bullfrogs are native to most of North America, Canada and Mexico. The ones that live in northern America hibernate during winter. However, bullfrogs in southern US states are active all the time. Bullfrogs have been seen in South America, Asia, Western Europe and the Caribbean. These bullfrogs were brought on ships. Many people, including pet owners, have placed bullfrogs outside of their native area. They have done this: on purpose because they no longer want them, to control the pest population, or by accident by catching them in fishing nets.

Bullfrogs can adapt and live almost anywhere if there is water nearby. They can eat rodents, insects, small fish, arachnids, small birds, crustaceas, small mammals, worms, and other frogs. Because of this, they have been blamed for many animal extinctions. Bullfrogs live in large bodies of water such as swamps, lakes, and ponds. They like to stay near the edge of the water. During a rainstorm, they may travel on land. They travel in search of a new habitat.

Bullfrogs are prey to various birds like herons, and their life in the wild is much less than in captivity. One captive bullfrog lived almost 16 years. The name "bullfrog" was given because males roar when mating with a female. Bullfrogs can be kept as pets. Captive bullfrogs are given rodents, small fish, crickets, worms, and fruit flies as food and treats. Pet owners may add supplements on the frogs food for health. Bullfrogs can host many viruses, bacteria and parasites. They were blamed for an intraerythrocytic virus outbreak in Canada in 1997. Bullfrogs are the cause of the chytrid fungus spreading into Arizona. The fungus is one of the main reasons that there are fewer amphibians.

A female bullfrog can lay up to 20,000 eggs. Bullfrog tadpoles take up to a year to become a young frog. Males will stay behind and take care of the tadpoles. Males are territorial and will attack any animal, including their own kind, if they come near them. Bullfrogs can reduce the mosquito population. They do this by eating most of the mosquito's larvae. Bullfrogs do not move during the day, except if there is food nearby or when threatened.

Bullfrog legs are eaten by humans. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) rates the bullfrog as "Least Concern", which means that they are not an endangered species. However, they are dying because of habitat loss, water pollution, pesticides, and over harvesting.

[[Irritator]]

CATEGORIES: Spinosauridae, Cretaceous dinosaurs

Irritator (say: irr-irr-it-at-or) is a genus of spinosaurid theropod dinosaur that lived in what is now Brazil during the Lower Cretaceous. Its fossils are known from the Romualdo Formation. Irritator had straight and cone-shaped teeth. Its jaws were low, long and slender, with the nostrils placed well back from the front of the snout (all consistent with fish eating). Irritator also had a narrow crest made of nasal bones on top of the skull. Irritator's name comes from the English word "Irritation". It was given its name due to the feelings of the scientists who described it when they found that fossil dealers had added plaster to the front of the snout. 

[[Kate Hudson]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American screenwriters, American television actors, American television producers, Jewish American actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Writers from Los Angeles, California, 1979 births, Living people

Kate Garry Hudson (born April 19, 1979) is an American actress, movie director, screenwriter and producer. In 2001 she won Golden Globe for this role in Almost Famous and was nominated for Oscar, but Marcia Gay Harden won.

[[Province of Verona]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Veneto

The Province of Verona (Provincia di Verona) is a province in the Veneto region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Verona.

[[Province of Vicenza]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Veneto

The Province of Vicenza (Provincia di Vicenza) is a province in the Veneto region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Vicenza.

[[Petroleum product]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

A petroleum product is an organic compound  made in oil refineries. They result from refining (changing) crude oil (also called Petroleum) into more useful products.

Well-known petroleum products include:

In addition, oil-refineries also sell other things that come from the refining process, most notably

Some Petrochemicals, including plastics, are made from petroleum products.

[[Thomas Spurgeon]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1917 deaths, Baptists, Calvinists, Charles Spurgeon, English Protestants, Evangelists, Twin people

Thomas Spurgeon (20 September 1856–October 1917) was a British Reformed Baptist preacher. He was the pastor of the Metropolitan Tabernacle. He was one of two non-identical twin sons of the famous Charles Haddon Spurgeon (1834-1892).

[[Billings, Montana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Montana, County seats in Montana, 1877 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Montana

Billings is a city in the U.S. State of Montana. Just over 100,000 people live there. It was founded in 1882 as a railroad town. it is the largest city in Montana by population.

Billings Logan International Airport is in the city. It is also home to the Pictograph Cave National Historic Landmark, Lake Elmo State Park and Four Dances Natural Area.

The Yellowstone River flows through the town.

Billings is also the birthplace (and hometown) of the beautiful Miss Teen USA Katie Blair. 

[[West Jordan, Utah]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Utah

West Jordan is a city in the suburbs of Salt Lake City. It is in the U.S. State of Utah. Just over 100,000 people live there.

[[Jackie Robinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 1972 deaths, African-American baseball players, Brooklyn Dodgers players, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Congressional Gold Medal recipients, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Major League Baseball broadcasters, National Baseball Hall of Fame members, National League All-Stars, People from Cairo, Georgia, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state)

Jack Roosevelt "Jackie" Robinson (January 31, 1919 – October 24, 1972) was the first African-American Major League Baseball (MLB) player of modern times. Robinson broke the baseball color barrier when he debuted with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947. He was the first black man to openly play in the major leagues since the 1880s. He had a big role in bringing an end to racial segregation in professional baseball. Up to that point, African-Americans could only play in Negro leagues for six decades. His character and skills challenged the usual basis of segregation. At the time, this basis was part of many other pieces of American life. Robinson and his abilities contributed a lot to the civil rights movement.

Apart from his cultural impact, Robinson had an overall good baseball career. Over ten seasons, he played in six World Series and helped in the Dodgers' 1955 World Championship. He was selected for six consecutive All-Star Games from 1949 to 1954. Robinson received the first MLB Rookie of the Year Award in 1947. He also won the National League Most Valuable Player Award in 1949. He was the first black player to win this award. Robinson was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1962. In 1997, Major League Baseball retired his uniform number, 42, across all major league teams.

Robinson was also known for his activities outside of baseball. He was the first African-American television analyst in Major League Baseball. He was also the first African-American vice-president of a major American company. In the 1960s, he helped establish the Freedom National Bank, an African-American-owned/controlled financial business based in Harlem, New York. In honor of his achievements on and off the field, Robinson was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal after his death.

[[George Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 1624 births, 1691 deaths, British esotericists, Christian mystics, Christian religious leaders, Christian theologians, English Protestants, English theologians, People from Leicestershire, Quakers

George Fox (July 1624 – 13 January 1691) was one of the people that left the Church of England. He was a founder of the Religious Society of Friends, also known as the "Quakers."

[[University of Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: American Lacrosse Conference, Association of American Universities, Big Ten Conference, Central Collegiate Hockey Association, Collegiate Water Polo Association, ECAC Lacrosse, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, University of Michigan, 1810s establishments in Michigan Territory, 1817 establishments in the United States

The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (U of M, U-M, UM or simply Michigan) is a public university in the state of Michigan. The university was started in 1817 in Detroit, about 20 years before Michigan became a state, and moved to Ann Arbor in 1837. It is the state's oldest university and the main campus; there are two other campuses—the University of Michigan-Flint and the University of Michigan–Dearborn.

The university is known around the world, its students being famous people such as U.S. President Gerald Ford, Supreme Court Justices, as well as many heads of states around the world. It is now ranked 18th in the world by "The Times Higher Education-QS World University Rankings," and 21st by the Shanghai Jiao Tong University Institute for Higher Education rankings. In its last survey in 1995, the National Research Council ranked UM 3rd in the United States and is called one of the first eight Public Ivys. The university also has one of the largest research budgets or spending money of any American university and the largest number of living alumni or former students, at 460,000. UM athletic teams are known as very good, especially in football, men's basketball, and ice hockey.

[[List of New York State Senators]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians from New York, Lists of politicians from the United States, New York-related lists

This is a complete list of members of the New York State Senate, past and present. Members currently serving in the Senate as of June 2019 are listed black.

[[Midwestern Baptist Theological Seminary]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities in the United States, Colleges and universities in Missouri, Southern Baptist Convention, Charles Spurgeon, Seminaries

Midwestern Baptist Theological Seminary (MBTS) is one of six official seminaries of the Southern Baptist Convention.  It is in Kansas City, Missouri. It contains the full Spurgeon library.

[[Chemical relaxer]]

CATEGORIES: Hair

A chemical relaxer is used to straighten hair or loosen tight curls by use of chemicals to break the disulphide bonds the hair. It may have side effects such as burns and bald spots if used wrong.

[[Mountain Brook, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alabama

Mountain Brook is a city in Jefferson County, Alabama, United States. The city is a suburb of Birmingham, Alabama. In 2005, Mountain Brook had a population of 20,821, and is on several lists of the United States' richest communities.

Mountain Brook was created after an election was held on March 24, 1942, with 263 voting in favor of incorporation and 67 opposing. The area was founded by Robert Jemison, and the city was designed by Warren H. Manning. Mountain Brook was built around three villages: English Village, Mountain Brook Village, and Crestline Village.

Mountain Brook is the hometown of Friends actress Courteney Cox and missing person Natalee Holloway.

[[Trilobite]]

CATEGORIES: Paleontology, Palaeozoic

Trilobite ("three lobed") are extinct arthropods which were the first animals known to have eyes. They were very numerous during the early Palaeozoic era. Their distribution was worldwide, but only in salt water environments. They disappeared in the Permian–Triassic extinction event.

Trilobites had many lifestyles. Some moved over the sea floor as predators, scavengers, or filter feeders and some swam, feeding on plankton. Most ecological niches of modern marine arthropods are seen in trilobites.

Their bodies were divided into three parts: the head (cephalon), the thorax (chest) made of up to 30 segments, and the tail (pygidium). Underneath, and rarely preserved, are three pairs of legs for the head. There are paired legs for each pleural groove. 

Trilobites are the earliest known animal to have vision. The earliest trilobites had complex, compound eyes with lenses made of calcite. Some trilobites had small eyes or no eyes at all, and probably lived in dark environments.

Trilobites ranged in length from 1 to 72, with a typical size range of 3. The world's largest trilobite, Isotelus rex, was found in 1998 by Canadian scientists on the shores of Hudson Bay.

Trilobites appeared some 600 million years ago during the Cambrian period. They belonged (probably) to the phylum Arthropoda. This phylum includes the most successful (78%) of all animal life forms, including crabs, centipedes, spiders, shrimps and insects. The trilobites, living in shallow seas, flourished as swimmers, crawlers and burrowers for some 350 million years. Over time, they evolved rapidly into a wide variety of strange and beautiful forms.

[[A Wizard of Earthsea]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 books, Earthsea books

A Wizard of Earthsea, written in 1968, is the first of a series of books that are written by Ursula K. Le Guin and set in the fantasy world called Earthsea.  The series is about a wizard named Ged. This book won the 1979 Lewis Carroll Shelf Award.

A mini-series based on A Wizard of Earthsea and The Tombs of Atuan was created on the Sci Fi Channel. Le Guin has said that she was not happy with the mini-series.

[[The Tombs of Atuan]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 books, Earthsea books, Newbery Honor books

The Tombs of Atuan is the second of a series of books that are written by Ursula K. Le Guin.  The book was first published in 1971 and follows on from A Wizard of Earthsea and is continued in The Farthest Shore. The Tombs of Atuan was a Newbery Honor book in 1972.

[[The Farthest Shore]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 books, Earthsea books

The Farthest Shore is the third in a series of books that are written by Ursula K. Le Guin. The book was first published in 1972, and follows on from The Tombs of Atuan. It inspired the Studio Ghibli animated movie Tales from Earthsea. It won the 1973 National Book Award for Children's Books.

[[Tehanu]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 books, Earthsea books, American novels, Nebula Awards

Tehanu was the fourth of Ursula K. Le Guin's Earthsea books. It was written in 1990, and won the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 1990.

[[Tales from Earthsea]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 books, Earthsea books

Tales from Earthsea, by Ursula K. Le Guin, written in 2001, is a collection of short stories from Le Guin's Earthsea series.

[[Canadian Arctic Archipelago]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada

The Canadian Arctic Archipelago, also known as just the Arctic Archipelago, is an archipelago north of the Canadian mainland in the Arctic. There are about 36,563 islands which have much of the territory of Northern Canada – most of Nunavut and part of Northwest Territories.

The archipelago has 94 major islands (bigger than 130 km²), including three of the world's ten biggest islands, and 36,469 minor islands. The bigger islands of the archipelago (over 10,000 km²) are:

[[Victoria Island (Canada)]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada

Victoria Island is an island in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago and the border between Nunavut and the Northwest Territories runs through the island. It is the 9th biggest island of the world, and at 2172911 is Canada's second largest island and nearly double the size of Newfoundland (or only slightly bigger than the size of the island of Great Britain). The western third of the island belongs to the Inuvik Region in the Northwest Territories and the rest is part of Nunavut's Kitikmeot Region.

As of 2006, 1,875 live on Victoria Island. Most of the people (1,477) live in its biggest city, Cambridge Bay.

[[Oswald Chambers]]

CATEGORIES: 1874 births, 1917 deaths, Baptists, People from Aberdeen

Oswald Chambers (1874-1917) was a famous early 20th century Scottish Protestant Christian minister and teacher. He is best known as the author of the devotional My Utmost for His Highest.

[[John F. MacArthur]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, American Calvinists, American Evangelicals, American radio personalities, American theologians, Bob Jones University alumni, Christian ministers, Christian theologians, Christian writers, Creationists, Writers from Los Angeles, California

John F. MacArthur, Jr. (born June 14, 1939 in Los Angeles, California) is a United States Reformed evangelical Bible teacher, writer and pastor. He is known for his radio program called Grace to You. He is the editor of the MacArthur Study Bible, which won a Gold Medallion Book Award for Bibles. 

MacArthur earned academic degrees from Talbot Theological Seminary. He is now the pastor-teacher of Grace Community Church, a megachurch in southern California, and the president of The Master's College and The Master's Seminary. He has written many books and has been a guest on Larry King's television talk show many times as a representative of conservative evangelical Christianity. His opinions about lordship salvation, church growth methods, and the use of psychology are controversial in Christian circles.

[[Jerry Falwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2007 deaths, American activists, American Baptists, American conservatives, Anti-LGBT rights activists, Anti-pornography activists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Virginia, Creationists, Deaths from myocardial infarction, People from Lynchburg, Virginia, Southern Baptist Convention, Television evangelists, Writers from Virginia

Jerry Lamon Falwell, Sr. (August 11, 1933 – May 15, 2007)  was an American evangelical Christian pastor and televangelist. He was the pastor of the Thomas Road Baptist Church, a megachurch in Lynchburg, Virginia. He founded Liberty University in 1971 and co-founded the Moral Majority in 1979. Fallwell was a member of the Southern Baptist Convention.

[[Martiniano Ferreira Botelho]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1939 deaths

Martiniano José Ferreira Botelho (1853 - 1939) was a leading figure in the municipality of Vila Pouca de Aguiar in the early 20th century. He was a doctor, druggist and Portuguese politician, known from his residence as  Lord of the House of the County. 

His humanitarian character was shown by treating his  patients without asking for payment. His wrote a doctoral thesis with the title Breve estudo sobre as águas alcalino-gazósas das Pedras Salgadas.  It was about the way water from the area was used as medicine to make people better. 

Botelho' gave land to the community for the market Square which can be seen today, as well as for the municipal slaughter house and water mine.

[[Battlestar Galactica (2004 TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 American television series debuts, 2009 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, Emmy Award winning programs, Saturn Award winners, Science fiction television series, English-language television programs

Battlestar Galactica is an American science fiction television series filmed in Vancouver. It was created by Ronald D. Moore that first aired in a three-hour miniseries in December of 2003 on the Sci Fi Channel.

The series has gained a wide range of critical acclaim. It won a Emmy Award and Saturn Awards.

[[Ellesmere Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada

Ellesmere Island is part of the Qikiqtaaluk Region of the Canadian territory of Nunavut. 

It is in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, part of the Queen Elizabeth Islands. Cape Columbia is the most northerly point of land in Canada. 

The area of Ellesmere Island is 196235, the world's tenth biggest island and Canada's third biggest island. The Arctic Cordillera mountain system covers much of Ellesmere Island: it is the most mountainous island in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. The Arctic Willow is the only woody species to grow on Ellesmere Island.

In 2001, 168 people lived on Ellesmere Island.  There are three settlements on Ellesmere Island including Alert, Eureka, and Grise Fiord. 

Canadian Forces Station (CFS) Alert on Ellesmere Island is the northernmost settlement in the world. 

[[Banks Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada

Banks Island (73) is one of the bigger members of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. It is in the Inuvik Region of the Northwest Territories, Canada. It is separated from Victoria Island to its east by the Prince of Wales Strait and from the mainland by Amundsen Gulf to its south. The Beaufort Sea lies to its west. To the northeast, McClure Strait separates the island from Prince Patrick Island and Melville Island.

[[Devon Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada, Uninhabited regions

Devon Island is one of the bigger members of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. It is the second-biggest of the Queen Elizabeth Islands, Nunavut, Canada, the 27th biggest island in the world, Canada's 6th biggest island and the biggest island in the world where nobody lives on. Devon Island has an area of 55247. The highest point is the Devon Ice Cap at 6,299 ft/1,920 metres which is part of the Arctic Cordillera. Devon Island has many small mountain ranges, such as the Treuter Mountains, Haddington Range and the Cunningham Mountains.

Devon Island is also notable for having the Haughton impact crater, made some 39 million years ago when a meteorite about 2 km (1.2 mi) in diameter crashed into what were then forests. The impact left a crater about 23 km (14 mi) in diameter, which was a lake for several million years. 

[[Axel Heiberg Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada

Axel Heiberg Island is the 31st biggest island in the world and Canada's 7th biggest island. According to Statistics Canada, it has an area of 43 178 km² (16,671 square miles).

The Inuit people have lived on Axel Heiberg Island in the past, but no one has lived there by the time it was named by Otto Sverdrup, who explored it around 1900. He named it after Axel Heiberg, manager of the Norwegian Ringnes brewery which sponsored the expedition. Other explorers visited the island during the early 20th century, during which time it was claimed by Norway until 1930. It is now part of Nunavut, Canada.

[[Green Bay, Wisconsin]]

CATEGORIES: Green Bay, Wisconsin, County seats in Wisconsin

Green Bay is a city in the U.S. State of Wisconsin (USA). It is the third largest city in Wisconsin. Just over 100,000 people live there. It is named after Green Bay, an arm of Lake Michigan. Green Bay is home of the Green Bay Packers that play at Lambeau Field.

[[Ballista]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons

The ballista (plural ballistae) was one of the first artillery weapons used by the Ancient Greeks. The ballista was invented around 400 BC in the Greek town of Syracuse. It was one of the first catapults, and shot very large and heavy spears far distances.

The ballista resembled a large crossbow. They were made in different sizes. Smaller ones threw smaller missiles such as scaled-up arrows and darts.

The steps to operating the ballista are:

Ballistae would be used if a weapon that fired light, narrow ammunition was needed.

[[Antioch, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Contra Costa County, California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area

Antioch is a city in the U.S. State of California. It is a suburb of San Francisco. Just over 100,000 people live there.

[[Daly City]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area, Settlements in San Mateo County, California, 1911 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in California

Daly City is a city in the U.S. State of California. It is a suburb of San Francisco. Many Filipino people live there.  The Bay Area Rapid Transit train stops there.

[[Portsmouth, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Portsmouth, Virginia

Portsmouth is a city in the U.S. State of Virginia. Just over 100,000 people live there.

[[Banana bread]]

CATEGORIES: Sweet breads

Banana bread is a sweet bread made with batter that is full of mashed bananas, ground cinnamon, and toasted nuts. Some may also have chocolate in them. It was first baked in the United States and became very popular because it was so easy to make. It is different from most breads because it is a quick bread, using baking powder to rise. There are many different kinds of banana bread. The dry ingredients are mixed together in one bowl, and the wet ingredients are mixed together in another bowl. The two are then put together, and baked, and then the making of a banana bread is done.

[[Saurophaganax]]

CATEGORIES: Carnosaurs

Saurophaganax ("lizard-eating master") is a genus of allosaurid dinosaur from the Morrison Formation of Upper Jurassic in Oklahoma. It lived about 151 million years ago). 

Saurophaganax was a very large Morrison allosaurid.  The maximum size of S. maximus has been estimated at anywhere from 10.5 to 13 in length, and around 3 in weight. This means it was perhaps similar in size to Tyrannosaurus or Carcharodontosaurus.

Some paleontologists think it is a species of Allosaurus (Allosaurus maximus). It has also been described as a separate genus. The most recent review of basal tetanurans accepted Saurophaganax as a distinct genus. New possible Saurophaganax material from New Mexico may clear up the status of the genus.

[[Sauroposeidon]]

CATEGORIES: Brachiosaurs

Sauroposeidon is a genus of sauropod dinosaur found in Oklahoma. It is one of the biggest dinosaur yet found.

[[Power cut]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A power cut, sometimes called a power outage or blackout, is a word for when the electric power does not work in an area. It is sometimes caused by a power line (or electricity cable) falling down, but may also happen due to routine maintenance. In poor countries, such as many in Africa, there are regular power cuts as more people try to use the electricity than there is to go around. An uninterruptible power supply can protect sensitive equipment such as computers or other electronics during a power cut, allowing it to be properly shut down.

[[Tim LaHaye]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, American Baptists, American conservatives, American Evangelicals, American military personnel of World War II, American novelists, American political activists, American political writers, Bob Jones University alumni, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Christian eschatology, Christian ministers, Christian writers, Creationists, Deaths from stroke, Left Behind, Republicans (United States), Writers from Detroit, Michigan, Writers from San Diego, California

Timothy Francis "Tim" LaHaye (April 27, 1926 – July 25, 2016) was an American evangelical Baptist minister, author, and speaker. He was best known for co-authoring the Left Behind series with Jerry B. Jenkins. He wrote over 50 books, both fiction and non-fiction. Time magazine named LaHaye "one of the 25 most influental evangelicals in America."

His wife was Beverly LaHaye, founder of Concerned Women for America.

LaHaye died of a stroke on July 25, 2016 in San Diego, California, aged 90.

[[Adrian Rogers]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2005 deaths, American Baptists, American conservatives, Southern Baptist Convention, Television evangelists, Writers from Florida

Adrian Pierce Rogers, Th.D. (September 12, 1931 – November 15, 2005) was an American pastor, author, and a three-term president of the Southern Baptist Convention (1979-1980 and 1986-1988). Rogers was born in West Palm Beach, Florida. He is the starter of Love Worth Finding ministries.

[[Charles Colson]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2012 deaths, American activists, American criminals, American Evangelicals, American lawyers, Christian religious leaders, Christian writers, Civil servants, Converts to Christianity, Presidential Citizens Medal recipients, Republicans (United States), Writers from Boston, Massachusetts

Charles Wendell "Chuck" Colson (October 16, 1931, in Boston, Massachusetts - April 21, 2012) was the chief counsel for President Richard Nixon from 1969 to 1973. Colson was also a public speaker and author. Around 1974 he converted to Christianity, and became an Evangelical Christian.

[[Charles Stanley (evangelist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, American Baptists, American radio personalities, Christian ministers, Christian religious leaders, Christian writers, Entertainers from Virginia, Evangelicals, Southern Baptist Convention, Television evangelists, Television personalities from Georgia (U.S. state), Writers from Atlanta, Georgia, Writers from Virginia

Charles Frazier Stanley (born September 25, 1932 in Dry Fork, Pittsylvania County, Virginia) is the pastor of megachurch First Baptist Church Atlanta in Atlanta, Georgia. He is the starter and president of "In Touch Ministries". Stanley also served two terms as president of the Southern Baptist Convention from 1984 through 1986.

[[Espaillat Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Dominican Republic, 1885 establishments, 1880s establishments in the Dominican Republic

Espaillat is a province in the Dominican Republic. It is in the Cibao region, in the north central part of the country. Its capital is Moca.

The province was created on 1885. It was part of the La Vega province until it was made a province.

[[Reggie White]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, 2004 deaths, College Football Hall of Fame, Pro Football Hall of Fame, American Christians, American football defensive ends, Carolina Panthers players, Green Bay Packers players, Philadelphia Eagles players, Sportspeople from Tennessee, People from Chattanooga, Tennessee

Reginald Howard "Reggie" White (December 19, 1961 – December 26, 2004) was an American football player who is now in the Pro Football Hall of Fame.  He is well known for being a Evangelical Christian minister. This led to his nickname, "the Minister of Defense."

[[Charley Patton]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1934 deaths, Musicians from Mississippi

Charlie Patton (also known as Charley Patton) (May 1, 1891 - April 28, 1934) was an American Delta blues musician. He is thought to be the "Father of Delta Blues" and was one of the most popular of the early recorded blues musicians.

[[Ammonite]]

CATEGORIES: Paleontology, Ammonites

Ammonites were marine cephalopod molluscs of the subclass Ammonoidea. 

Their widely-known fossils show a ribbed spiral-form shell, in the end compartment of which lived the tentacled animal. These creatures lived in the seas from at least 400 to 65 million years ago. They became extinct at the K/T extinction event. Their nearest living relatives are the octopus, squid, cuttlefish and Nautilus.

Nine orders are recognised in the Ammonoidea: five in the Palaeozoic and four in the Mesozoic.

[[Drop]]

CATEGORIES: Matter

A drop is a small bit of liquid, such as water, which is held together by surface tension.

It is normally thought of as falling.

Something that is dropping can sometimes be called dripping.

Drops are often circular in shape, and sometimes when light is refracted through them, it makes a rainbow effect. Rain is an example of when drops fall. Drops are also like bubbles, except they hold liquid instead of a gas, like air.

[[Brindle]]

CATEGORIES: Animals

Brindle is a fur coloring in animals. It mainly appears on dogs, cats, cattle, and sometimes horses. The brindle color is similar to the stripes of a tiger, but much less visible. Animals with a brindle-colored coat are said to be brindled.

[[Interactive fiction]]

CATEGORIES: Types of video games

Interactive Fiction, usually abbreviated as IF, is a kind of computer game. In interactive fiction, the player types words with their keyboard, as an instruction to the main character of a story. One instruction might be:

take lamp

Which would make the main character pick up a lamp.

[[Football League First Division]]

CATEGORIES: English Football League, Football in England

The Football League First Division was a football league. It was the first division of English football between 1888 and 1992. When the Premier League was created in 1992, it became the 2nd division. It was rebranded as the Football League Championship in 2004.

[[Erie, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Erie, Pennsylvania, County seats in Pennsylvania

Erie is a city in the U.S. State of Pennsylvania. It is named after Lake Erie. As of 2001, 103,717 people lived in Erie.

[[Richmond, California]]

CATEGORIES: Richmond, California

Richmond is city in the U.S. State of California. It is a suburb of San Francisco. 103,818 people live in Richmond now. Chevron has an oil refinery here; in 2012 the refinery suffered a large fire.

[[Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 action movies, 1980s adventure movies, Indiana Jones movies, Movies set in the 1910s, Movies set in the 1930s, Movies set in Austria, Movies set in Germany, Movies set in Venice, Movies set in Turkey, Movies set in Asia, Movies set in deserts, Movies composed by John Williams

Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is a 1989 adventure movie directed by Steven Spielberg from a story co-written by executive producer George Lucas and starring Harrison Ford in the title role. It co-stars Sean Connery, Denholm Elliott, Julian Glover, Alison Doody, River Phoenix, and John Rhys-Davies.

[[Jerry Rice]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, African American players of American football, American football wide receivers, Sportspeople from Mississippi

Jerry Lee Rice (born October 13, 1962 in Starkville, Mississippi) is an American retired football player. He was a wide receiver in the NFL, and is widely considered the greatest to ever play this position. He is often thought of as one of the best players in the history of the game. Most of his success was with the San Francisco 49ers.

[[Barry Sanders]]

CATEGORIES: American football running backs, 1968 births, Living people, Sportspeople from Wichita, Kansas, Heisman Trophy winners

Barry David Sanders (born 1968) is a Hall of Fame and Heisman Trophy winning American football running back. He played college football at Oklahoma State University, then spent all of his professional career with the Detroit Lions in the NFL.

[[William McGonagall]]

CATEGORIES: 1825 births, 1902 deaths, Scottish poets, People from Edinburgh

William McGonagall (born Edinburgh, March 1825 – died Edinburgh, 29 September 1902) was a Scottish poet.  He thought he was good at writing poetry, but his poetry was often considered to be the worst poetry in the English language.  He became famous because he was such a bad poet. 

[[Gallimimus]]

CATEGORIES: Coelurosaurs

Gallimimus (chicken mimic) was a fast-running dinosaur. It had a long, thin, flattened, toothless, horny beak, a small head, and a relatively large brain. Gallimimus lived in the Upper Cretaceous, about 75-70 million years ago.

[[Jefferson County, Alabama]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 establishments in Alabama, Alabama counties

Jefferson County is a county in the U.S. state of Alabama.

The county was named after Thomas Jefferson, the third President of the United States. The county has the largest population of all other counties in Alabama. As of the 2000 U.S. census, 662,047 people lived there. The largest city in Jefferson County is Birmingham, Alabama.

[[The Other Wind]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 books, Earthsea books

The Other Wind is the sixth and last of a series of books that are written by Ursula K. Le Guin. It follows on from Tehanu, the fourth book, and the short story "Dragonfly" from the fifth book Tales from Earthsea.

The book won the World Fantasy Award for Best Book in 2002, and was also nominated for the Nebula Award for Best Book in the same year.

[[The Lathe of Heaven]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 books, Books by Ursula K. Le Guin, Science fiction books

The Lathe of Heaven is a 1971 science fiction book that was written by Ursula K. Le Guin. The story is about a character whose dreams change the world. It has been made into two television films.  The book was put up for a Hugo Award and a Nebula Award, and won the Locus Poll Award for best book in 1972.  It was first written in the magazine Amazing Stories.

[[The Eye of the Heron]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 books, Books by Ursula K. Le Guin, Science fiction books

The Eye of the Heron is a 1978 science fiction book by Ursula K. Le Guin.

[[Malafrena]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 books, Books by Ursula K. Le Guin, Novels

Malafrena is a book by Ursula K. Le Guin that was published in 1979 .  The novel takes place in the country of Orsinia, which is also the setting of Le Guin's 1976 story collection, Orsinian Tales.

[[Jesse James]]

CATEGORIES: 1847 births, 1882 deaths, American Baptists, American folklore, American murder victims, American robbers, Murders by firearm in the United States, People from Missouri, Bushwhackers

Jesse Woodson James (September 5, 1847 – April 3, 1882) was an American outlaw. He was the most famous member of the James-Younger Gang in 1875. He was shot in the back of the head and killed by Robert Ford, a member of his gang for a $10,000 bounty that was placed on James by then-Missouri governor Thomas T. Crittenden.

[[Jesse James (disambiguation)]]

Jesse James (1847-1882) was an American outlaw.

Other people named Jesse James:

Jesse James can also mean:

[[Pensacola Christian College]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities in the United States, Colleges and universities in Florida, 1974 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Florida

Pensacola Christian College (PCC) is an accredited, fundamentalist, Independent Baptist college in Pensacola, Florida. It was started in 1974 by Arlin Horton.

It is accredited by the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools since 2013.

[[Moody Bible Institute]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities in the United States, Colleges and universities in Chicago, 1886 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Illinois

Moody Bible Institute (MBI) is an institute in Chicago on the Near North Side. In 1886, it was started by evangelist and businessman Dwight Lyman Moody. MBI has three major ministries: education, broadcasting and publishing.

[[Florence Foster Jenkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 births, 1944 deaths, American opera singers, American socialites, Cardiovascular disease deaths in New York City, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Singers from Pennsylvania, People from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania

Florence Foster Jenkins (born July 19, 1868 in Pennsylvania, U.S.; died November 26, 1944) was an American soprano who became famous because she was such a bad singer.  She sang out of tune, had a very poor sense of rhythm and she was very unmusical.

[[Intonation]]

CATEGORIES: Disambiguation pages

Intonation may mean:

[[William Bligh]]

CATEGORIES: 1754 births, 1817 deaths, Admirals, English explorers, Governors of New South Wales, Mutiny on the Bounty, People from Cornwall, Royal Navy officers, Sailors

William Bligh (9 September 1754–7 December 1817) was an English officer in the British Navy. He sailed with Captain James Cook on his third and final voyage in 1776. In 1787 Bligh was made captain of HMS Bounty and sailed to Tahiti to collect breadfruit trees. A Mutiny on the Bounty prevented finishing this task. In 1806 he was made Governor of New South Wales. After going back to England, Bligh was made a Rear-Admiral and later a Vice-Admiral in the Royal Navy.

[[AppleScript]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

AppleScript is a way for people to write commands and actions on their Apple Macintosh platform. It is a simple language, like English, and is made by Apple Inc. since the year 1993.  The AppleScript program came from the HyperCard program.

[[Pachacuti]]

CATEGORIES: 1471 deaths, Inca civilization

Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui (or Pachacutec; Pachakutiq, whose name means "He who remakes the world" was the ninth Sapa Inca (1438-1471/1472) of the Kingdom of Cuzco, which he transformed into an empire, Tawantinsuyu. He began the era of conquest that, within three generations, expanded the Inca dominion from the valley of Cuzco to nearly the whole of civilized South America. He was the fourth of the Hanan dynasty, and his wife's name is given as Mama Anawarkhi or Coya Anahurque. Their son was Tupac Inca Yupanqui. 

Pachacuti reorganized the new empire, the Tahuantinsuyu or "the united four provinces."  Under his system, there were four apos that each controlled one of four provinces (suyu). 

Despite Pachacuti's political and military talents, he did not improve upon the system of choosing the next Inca. His son became the next Inca without any known dispute, but in future generations the next Inca had to gain control of the empire by winning enough support from the apos, priesthood, and military to either win a civil war or intimidate anyone else from trying to get control of the empire. 

Machu Picchu is believed to date to the time of Pachacuti.

[[IMac]]

CATEGORIES: Apple hardware, Computers

The iMac is an all-in-one personal computer that was first released in 1998. It is made by Apple Inc.. It has been the main part of Apple's consumer desktop offerings since its debut in August 1998, and has evolved through six distinct forms.

Apple adopted Intel processors which post-2006 Macs now run on. Because Mac OS X was written for PowerPC at the time, Mac OS X ran in an emulation environment called Rosetta. Programs and applications received 'Universal Binary' updates to make them run reliably and use less resources of the Rosetta environment, instead hardware accelerating themselves.

iMac models after 2001 were shipped with macOS (formerly known as OS X).

The latest macOS version, 10.12 Sierra, is Intel processor dependent. No PowerPC based computer can run or install it meaning most of the iMac line are not 10.11 compatible.

Some of the newest iMac models don't have CD or disc drives.

On May 2021, 24" iMac with Apple M1 will be released.

[[Melbourne Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Melbourne, Airports in Australia, Buildings and structures in Victoria, Australia

Melbourne Airport MEL is the second busiest airport in Australia.  It is the home base for Tiger Airways Australia and Jetstar.  It is also the home base for cargo airlines Australian Air Express and Toll Priority.  Qantas and Virgin Australia use it as a hub.

Passenger data from paxstat.

[[Craigslist]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 establishments in California, Advertising, Companies based in San Francisco

Craigslist is a centralized network of online communities for free classified advertisements (with jobs, internships, housing, personal advertisements, erotic services, for sale/barter/wanted, services, community, and pets categories) and forums on various topics.

[[Discounts and allowances]]

CATEGORIES: Marketing

Discounts and allowances are when the price of goods or services is made lower. Discounts and allowances can be a change of the price that the manufacturer sells the product for, the retail price (set by the retailer and often attached to the product with a sticker), or the list price (which is quoted to a potential buyer, usually in written form).  The market price (also called effective price) is the amount that the customer pays. The purpose of discounts is to increase short-term sales,  move out-of-date stock, reward valuable customers, encourage distribution. Some discounts and allowances are forms of sales promotion.

[[Sale]]

Sale may refer to:

Places:

People:

Organisations:

[[Classified advertising]]

CATEGORIES: Advertising

Classified advertising is a form of advertising which is particularly common in newspapers, online and other periodicals, e.g. free ads papers or Pennysavers. Classified advertising allows private individuals (not simply companies or corporate entities) to try to sell products or services. 

Classified advertising is called that because it is generally grouped within the publication under headings classifying the product or service being offered (headings such as Accounting, Automobiles, Clothing, Farm Produce, For Sale, For Rent, etc.) and is grouped entirely in a distinct section of the periodical, which makes it distinct from display advertising, which often contains graphics or other art work and which is placed near to editorial content. 

Newspapers are continuing to make less and less money from classified advertising because more and more people are using the Internet now and fewer people are reading newspapers. Classified advertising at some of the larger newspaper chains has dropped 14% to 20% in 2007 while traffic to classified sites has grown 23%.

As the online classified advertising sector develops, there is an increasing emphasis toward specialization. 

[[Huáscar]]

CATEGORIES: 1503 births, 1532 deaths, Emperors and empresses, South American people, Inca rulers

Inti Cusi Huallpa Huáscar, or "Sun of Joy" lived in 1503–1532 and was emperor of the Inca empire from 1527 to 1532 AD, He succeeded his father Huayna Capac and brother Ninan Cuyochi. Both of whom died of smallpox while they fought near Quito. 

On the death of their father and their older brother, the empire was divided between the two surviving brothers, Huáscar and Atahualpa. Huascar got the major part of it with the capital Cusco, and Atahualpa the northern parts, including Quito (now the capital of Ecuador). For a couple of years, the two brothers reigned without problems. Huascar demanded that Atahuallpa swear an oath to him. Atahuallpa refused and the civil war began. Atahualpa's commander lead armies of 100,000 men. About 60,000 men supported Huáscar. This demonstrates the numerical potential of Incan armies. The war was uncompleted, but Atahualpa had a clear advantage when Francisco Pizarro arrived. It was partly due to this civil war that Francisco Pizarro was successful.

[[CLAAS Jaguar]]

CATEGORIES: Agricultural machinery, Land vehicles

The CLAAS Jaguar is a silage harvester made by CLAAS. It has a DaimlerChrysler engine.

[[Thomas Becket]]

CATEGORIES: 1118 births, 1170 deaths, English murder victims, English Roman Catholics, Lord Chancellors, Murders by blade weapons, People from London, People murdered in England, Christian saints

Thomas Becket was an English priest, and Archbishop of Canterbury, who was murdered in Canterbury Cathedral in 1170. People used to think his name was Thomas á Becket, but it is now known to be wrong.

Becket was born in Cheapside, London. He was an intelligent child, who also enjoyed playing sports and hunting. At age 16, he left England to study in Paris.

In 1143, Becket joined the household of Theobald of Bec, as a clerk. He became Archbishop of Canterbury in 1162. He had been a close friend of King Henry II, but they argued about the rights of the Church. This argument between Henry and Becket ended their friendship. Becket resigned as Lord Chancellor and sought to extend the rights of the archbishopric. This led to a series of conflicts with the King. One was on the jurisdiction of secular courts over English clergymen. 

Attempts by Henry to influence the other bishops against Becket began in Westminster in October 1163. The King sought approval of the traditional rights of the royal government over the church. Henry held a meeting with most of the higher English clergy at Clarendon Palace on 30 January 1164.  Becket was officially asked to agree to the King's rights.

Henry summoned Becket to appear before a great council at Northampton Castle on 8 October 1164, to answer allegations. Convicted on the charges, Becket stormed out of the trial and fled to Europe. King Louis VII of France offered Becket protection. He spent nearly two years in the Cistercian abbey of Pontigny, until Henry's threats made him return to Sens.

Beckett returned to England, but the dispute continued. He excommunicated his enemies in the Church, and threatened to do the same to Henry. 

Upon hearing reports of Becket's actions, Henry said things which were understood as wishing Becket killed. The king's exact words are unknown and several versions have been reported. The most commonly quoted, as handed down by oral tradition, is "Who will rid me of this troublesome priest?".

Becket was killed by four of the King's knights on 29 December 1170. He became a saint in 1173. His major shrine is in Canterbury, but was destroyed by order of Henry VIII during his reign.

[[Fortress of Solitude]]

CATEGORIES: Superman, Fictional buildings and structures

The Fortress of Solitude is Superman's Kryptonian base. The first Fortress was a huge iceberg. A huge golden key that only Superman or Supergirl could lift was needed to open the door. Superman built it. The second Fortress was a huge crystalline building. It looked similar to a pile of crystals and icebergs. A green crystal built the second Fortress. The third version was similar to the second one, but was bigger and looked different in the inside. This version was created by the Crystal of Knowledge, a ring like crystal.

[[Brine shrimp]]

CATEGORIES: Branchiopods

Brine shrimp are  small shrimp that live in salt water.  Brine shrimp are Artemia, a genus of aquatic crustacea which has changed little (externally) since the Triassic period. They can often be found in saltwater ponds and marshes, and cannot live very long in fresh water. Artemia avoid most types of predators, such as fish, because they live in waters of very high salinity: (25 parts per thousand). The optimum for Artemia is 100 to 150 parts per thousand. The shrimp grow to be about one centimeter long. Females tend to be larger than males.

Brine shrimp circulatory and respiratory systems work together to remove extra salt from their body and distribute oxygen. They breathe through gills on their feet. The oxygen taken in is carried through the bloodstream. The heart pumps the blood around the body. Brine shrimp have a protein called hemoglobin in their blood. This helps the oxygen to be more efficiently transported to cells around the body. They need hemoglobin because oxygen levels can be very low in salty water. Then, the gills pump the excess salt, water, and carbon dioxide out of the body. Additional salt is pumped out through exocrine glands.

The brine shrimp's body has a head, thorax, and abdomen. A hard exoskeleton covers the entire body. Inside this exoskeleton, which is made of chitin, is where the brine shrimp’s muscles are located. Their muscles are attached internally. They move by beating their tails and by the continuous movement of the legs along their body.

[[Thunder Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Thunder Bay

Thunder Bay is the most populous city in Northwestern Ontario, in Canada. Its population was 107,909 as of the 2016 census. Before, it was two cities called Fort William and Port Arthur. Thunder Bay has the second largest population in Northern Ontario, behind Greater Sudbury.

[[Macroom]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Ireland, County Cork

Macroom is a small town in County Cork, Republic of Ireland. It lies on the River Sullane, a large tributary of the River Lee. 

[[Pecorino cheese]]

CATEGORIES: Pecorino cheeses

thumb|Pecorino RomanoPecorino cheese (or simply Pecorino) is the name for a few kinds of Italian cheeses made from sheep milk.  The word pecora, from which the name comes from, means sheep. Most of these cheeses are aged for some time. They taste rather salty.

[[Pecorino Romano]]

CATEGORIES: Pecorino cheeses

Pecorino Romano is a type of Pecorino cheese. It is mostly made in the Italian state of Lazio (Rome), but it is also made in some bordering municipalities. It is aged for about 5 months. This hard and crumbly cheese similar to Parmigiano-Reggiano is usually used for grating. It is one of the most well known pecorino cheeses.

[[Pecorino Sardo]]

CATEGORIES: Pecorino cheeses

Pecorino Sardo is a type of Pecorino cheese. It is made in the Italian state of Sardinia. It is made from sheep milk, mostly from the local breed. Since 1991, it has Protected designation of origin. It is aged for a couple of months, but can also age up to 6 months. It is not as well known outside of Italy as the Romano or Toscano cheeses. It can be used for grating like other cheeses.

[[Pecorino Toscano]]

CATEGORIES: Pecorino cheeses

Pecorino Toscano is a type of Pecorino cheese. It is made in the Italian state of Tuscany. Since 1996, it has protection of designated origin. The cheese is aged for about 20 days. This firm cheese can be used for grating or it can be eaten with some Mediterranean fruits and vegetables.

[[Pecorino Siciliano]]

CATEGORIES: Pecorino cheeses

Pecorino Siciliano is a type of Pecorino cheese. It comes from the Italian state of Sicily. It comes in a cylinder like shape. It is not well known outside of Italy. Since 1996, it has protected designation of origin. It has a firm and rough texture.

[[Martin Brodeur]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, American Hockey League players, Calder Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, Sportspeople from Montreal, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners, Quebec Major Junior Hockey League players

Martin Pierre Brodeur (born May 6, 1972, in Montreal, Quebec) is a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. He was formerly a ice hockey goaltender for the New Jersey Devils in the National Hockey League (NHL) and ins currently a current team executive for the New Jersey Devils. During his 21-years with the Devils, he was a three-time Stanley Cup champion and holds more than thirty Devils team records.

On June 7, 2014, Brodeur told ESPN that he would test the free agency market for the 2014-15 season.

[[Miikka Kiprusoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American Hockey League players, Calgary Flames players, Living people, San Jose Sharks players, Vezina Trophy winners, Swedish Hockey League players, Finnish ice hockey goaltenders

Miikka Sakari Kiprusoff (pronounced "MEE-kah KIHP-roo-sawf") (born October 26, 1976) is a Finnish retired professional hockey goaltender. He played 11 seasons in the NHL mainly with the Calgary Flames.

The Calgary Flames announced on September 9, 2013 that Kiprusoff had retired.

[[Evgeni Nabokov]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, American Hockey League players, Calder Trophy winners, Kazakhstani ice hockey players, Living people, New York Islanders players, Russian ice hockey players, San Jose Sharks players, Tampa Bay Lightning players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Ice hockey goaltenders

Evgeni Viktorovich Nabokov (Евге́ний Ви́кторович Набо́ков) (born July 25, 1975 in Ust-Kamenogorsk, U.S.S.R., now Kazakhstan), is a Kazakhstani-Russian professional ice hockey goaltender. He used to play for the San Jose Sharks, New York Islanders, and Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League. He has also played for Metallurg Magnitogorsk and SKA St. Petersburg in the Russian Superleague and Kontinental Hockey League. Nabokov played from 1991 until 2015.

[[Henrik Lundqvist]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, New York Rangers players, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Vezina Trophy winners, Swedish Hockey League players, Swedish ice hockey goaltenders

Henrik Lundqvist (ˈhɛnrɪk ˈlɵndkvɪst; born 2 March 1982, in Åre, Sweden) is a Swedish ice hockey goaltender for the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has been nominated for the Vezina Trophy three times. He finished third all three times. His play during his first season resulted in the New York media and Rangers fans giving him the nickname "King Henrik". During the 2006 Winter Olympics in Torino, Italy, he played on the Swedish team when they won their second Olympic Gold Medal.

[[Danube Delta]]

CATEGORIES: River deltas, Biosphere reserves, World Heritage Sites in Europe, Geography of Romania, Geography of Ukraine

The Danube Delta is the second largest delta in Europe, after the Volga Delta. It is one of the best preserved deltas on the continent.  Most of the Danube Delta can be found in Romania, but the northern part of the delta is in Ukraine. In the Ukraine the delta is not preserved as well as it is in Romania.

In 1979, the Danube delta became a Biosphere Reserve.  The coastal ecosystem is recognized as part of UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme.

[[Wallachia]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of Romania, History of Romania, Ottoman Empire

Wallachia (also spelled Walachia; Ţara Românească or "The Romanian Land") is a historical area of Romania. Wallachia is divided into two sections, Muntenia (Greater Wallachia) and Oltenia (Lesser Wallachia). 

[[Romanian War of Independence]]

CATEGORIES: Wars of independence, History of Romania, Rebellions in Europe, 19th century rebellions, 1877, 1878

The Romanian War of Independence was battled in 1877.  It was against the Ottoman Empire. On April 16, Romania and the Russian Empire signed a treaty that allowed Russian troops to pass through Romanian land, so long as the Russians respected the integrity of the Romanians.

On May 21, in the Romanian parliament, Mihail Kogălniceanu said that it was the will of the Romanian people to be independent.  In the beginning of this war, Russia did not want to help the Romanians with the war.

[[Romanian Revolution of 1989]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 in Europe, 1980s riots, 20th century in Romania, 20th century rebellions, Cold War, Coups d'état, Rebellions in Europe, Revolutions

The Romanian Revolution of 1989 was a week-long series of violent riots and fighting in Romania. It took place in late December of 1989.  The fighting began to end Nicolae Ceauşescu's control of the Communist state. In 1989, similar revolutions ended Communist governments in other countries in Eastern Europe. Revolutions in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Albania were peaceful, but in Romania, the revolution was violent and led to the deaths of many, including Ceausescu.

[[List of NHL General Managers]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League lists, Lists of sportspeople

This is a list of general managers in the National Hockey League. In the National Hockey League, the general manager of a team typically controls player trades and talks about contracts  with players. He is also responsible for the coaches.

[[Dominik Hašek]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Buffalo Sabres players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Czech ice hockey players, Czechoslovak ice hockey players, Detroit Red Wings players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Living people, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Ottawa Senators players, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Ice hockey goaltenders

Dominik Hašek, (born January 29, 1965) is a retired professional ice hockey goaltender that played a total of 16 seasons in the National Hockey League.

During his playing career he played for the Detroit Red Wings, Chicago Blackhawks, Buffalo Sabres, and the Ottawa Senators. When he was in Buffalo, he became one of the league's best goaltenders. He was nicknamed "The Dominator." His strong play has been said to have establish European goaltenders in a league dominated by North Americans.

Hašek was one of the league's most successful goaltenders of the 1990s and early 2000s. From 1993 to 2001, he won six Vezina Trophies, and in 1998 he became the first goaltender to win consecutive Hart Trophies.

During the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, he led the Czech national ice hockey team to its first and only Olympic gold medal. The feat made him a popular figure in his home country and prompted hockey legend Wayne Gretzky to call him "the best player in the game."

While with the Red Wings in 2002, Hašek became the first European starting goaltender to win the Stanley Cup.

Doing that, he set a record for shutouts in a postseason year. He came in second in votes for the Conn Smythe Trophy for the playoff's Most Valuable Player.

Hašek was considered an unorthodox goaltender, with a special style that has labelled him a "flopper." He is best known for his concentration, foot speed, flexibility, and unconventional saves, such as covering the puck with his blocker rather than his trapper.

Hašek is seen as a future Hall of Famer by those in the hockey world. He is right now the oldest goalie in the NHL at 43, and  also, the second oldest player in the league after Red Wings teammate Chris Chelios, who is 46.

On June 23, 2014, Hašek was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame.

[[Televangelism]]

CATEGORIES: Television evangelists

Televangelism is the use of modern mass media such as television or radio to speak of the faith. Usually this is done to convince other people of one's own beliefs. It is common with Christianity but also occurs with other religions. The word is a made up of television and evangelism. The term was started by Time magazine. Today it is also used for preachers who use modern mass media, such as radio, or the internet to spread the gospel.

Please note, that televangelism is different from watching a Christian mass (or other religious programme, for example, the blessings Urbi et Orbi of the Pope) on television, or other media.

[[Bernie Parent]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, People from Montreal, Philadelphia Flyers players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, World Hockey Association players, Ontario Hockey League players, Memorial Cup winners, Central Professional Hockey League players

Bernard Marcel Parent (born April 3, 1945 in Montreal, Quebec), better known as Bernie Parent, is a retired  Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender.

[[Tony Esposito]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2021 deaths, American ice hockey players, Calder Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Central Professional Hockey League players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Canadiens players, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

Anthony James "Tony O" Esposito (April 23, 1943 – August 10, 2021) was a professional ice hockey goaltender, who played in the National Hockey League, most notably for the Chicago Black Hawks. He was considered one of the pioneers of the now popular butterfly style. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1988. He was born in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario.

Esposito died on August 10, 2021 at the age of 78, from pancreatic cancer.

[[1973-74 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s in North America

[[Billy Sunday]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 births, 1935 deaths, American Presbyterians, Evangelists, Major League Baseball players, Sportspeople from Illinois, Sportspeople from Iowa

William Ashley "Billy" Sunday (November 19, 1862 in Story County, Iowa – November 6, 1935 in Chicago, Illinois) was an American athlete and religious person. He was an outfielder in baseball's National League during the 1880s. After that he became an influential American Presbyterian evangelist at the start of the 20th century.

[[2007-08 NHL season]]

The 2007–08 NHL season was the 91st season of operation (90th season of play) of the National Hockey League (NHL). It began on September 29, 2007. The regular season ended April 6, 2008. The Stanley Cup playoffs ended on June 4. The Detroit Red Wings won the Stanley Cup.

[[John Newton]]

CATEGORIES: 1725 births, 1807 deaths, British abolitionists, Christian hymnwriters, English activists, English Anglicans, English poets, English priests, Gospel Music Hall of Fame inductees, Royal Navy officers, Sailors, Slavers, Writers from London

John Henry Newton, Jr. (July 24, 1725 – December 21, 1807) was a slave ship captain who became an Anglican clergyman. He was the author of many hymns, including Amazing Grace.

[[John Newton (disambiguation)]]

John Newton may mean:

[[The Beginning Place]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 books, Books by Ursula K. Le Guin, Science fiction books

The Beginning Place is a science fiction book that was written by Ursula K. Le Guin in 1980.

[[Ursula K. Le Guin]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American children's writers, American essayists, American novelists, American poets, American science fiction writers, Hugo Award winning writers, Nebula Award winning writers, American short story writers, Writers from Berkeley, California, Writers from Portland, Oregon

Ursula Kroeber Le Guin (ˈɝsələ ˈkroʊbɚ ləˈgwɪn) (October 21, 1929 – January 22, 2018) was an American writer. She wrote books, poetry, children's books, essays, short stories, fantasy and science fiction.

[[Jan van Eyck]]

CATEGORIES: 1380s births, 1441 deaths, Dutch painters, European diplomats, Flemish painters

Jan van Eyck or Johannes de Eyck (jɑn vɑn ɛik) (before c. 1395 – before 9 July 1441) was an early Dutch painter active in Bruges. He is thought to be one of the best Northern European painters of the 15th century. He was interested in art since he was a child and was encouraged in this career by his older brother, Hubert.

[[Awana]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations, Youth organizations, Acronyms

Awana (an acronym for Approved Workmen Are Not Ashamed, from 2 Timothy 2:15), is an international evangelical non-profit organization. It was founded in 1950. Its headquarters is in Streamwood, Illinois. It was founded by Baptist minister Arthur Rorheim in 1950.

[[Dwight L. Moody]]

CATEGORIES: 1837 births, 1899 deaths, American Evangelicals, Christian hymnwriters, Christian ministers, Evangelists, Writers from Massachusetts

Dwight Lyman (D.L.) Moody (February 5, 1837 – December 22, 1899) was an American evangelist and publisher. He started the Moody Church, Northfield School and Mount Hermon School in Massachusetts (now the Northfield Mount Hermon School), the Moody Bible Institute and Moody Publishers.

[[Fletcher Christian]]

CATEGORIES: 1764 births, 1793 deaths, British military people, Mutiny on the Bounty

Fletcher Christian (September 25, 1764 - 1793) was an English seaman on HMS Bounty when it sailed to Tahiti to collect breadfruit trees in 1787. He led a mutiny (take over) to stop Lieutenant William Bligh returning to England. (See Mutiny on the Bounty). He left Bligh and 18 seaman in a small boat, and went back to Tahiti in the Bounty. Christian and some of the other sailors then sailed to Pitcairn Island to live. Christian was later killed in a fight between the Tahitian men and the seamen.

[[Ichthyosaur]]

CATEGORIES: Ichthyosaurs, Fossils

Ichthyosaurs are an extinct order of marine reptiles from the Mesozoic era.

By the Upper Triassic they are similar in shape to dolphins and to fast predatory fish like tuna (convergent evolution). They are found in marine strata from the earliest Triassic to the Cretaceous, though the early proto-ichthyosaurs are sometimes put in the broader category of Ichthyopterygia. After transitional Triassic types like Mixosaurus and Cymbospondylus, they have essentially the same body shape. Californosaurus was one of the first to have the typical dolphin-like body shape.

Although isolated ichthyosaur vertebrae are quite common, the first fossil which showed the ichthyosaur form was found by Mary Anning (1799–1847) and her brother Joseph. Mary Anning was an early British fossil collector, dealer and paleontologist. Many of her finds may be seen today at the Natural History Museum, London.

[[Ichthyosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ichthyosaurs

Ichthyosaurus was an extinct marine reptile from the Lower Jurassic. It was the first member of the order Ichthyosauria to be discovered. The first complete skeleton was discovered in the early 19th century (1810/11) by Mary Anning in the Dorset Jurassic Coast. Many more specimens were found in Europe, especially from the limestone quarries in Holzmaden, southern Germany.

Ichthyosaurus lived from about 199 to 189 million years ago (mya).

This sleek animal could perhaps swim at speeds up to 25 mph (40 kph).

[[Stenopterygius]]

CATEGORIES: Ichthyosaurs

Stenopterygius was a typical, dolphin-shaped ichthyosaur of the Lower Jurassic. It is like the poster reptile of the ichthyosaur family, Ichthyosaurus, but with slightly narrower flippers  and a smaller head. Its name means "narrow wing".

Stenopterygius was more streamlined than the earlier ichthyosaurs of the Triassic period, and likely swam faster in pursuit of prey.

Some Stenopterygius fossils have been found with the remains of juveniles inside--clearly instances of mothers dying before they could give birth. As with other ichthyosaurs, Stenopterygius females gave birth to live young. Their eggs developed internally before birth.

[[Temnodontosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ichthyosaurs

Temnodontosaurus was an ichthyosaur from the early Jurassic, some 196 to 190 million years ago. It was found in England by Mary Anning, and later in Germany. It was, in fact, her first ichthyosaur. Her brother found the skull, and she found the rest of the skeleton, in about 1810. It was described in 1814. There are four or five species of Temnodontosaurus. They grew to killer whale size, about 30 to 40 feet.

This huge ichthyosaur cruised the shallow seas hunting. But hunting what? A discussion by Christopher McGowan suggests that other reptiles might have been on the menu. McGowan also mentions that in the museum collections are some teeth and bones which suggest even larger ichthyosaurs existed.

[[Californosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ichthyosaurs

Californosaurus was an ichthyosaur, an extinct marine reptile. It was 10 feet (3 m) long. It had four paddle-shaped flippers and sharp teeth in long, pointed jaws (looking a bit like a dolphin). 

Californosaurus lived during the late Triassic period in seas that covered what is now California. It fed on fish and other small marine creatures. Like other ichthyosaurs it probably never came onto dry land, and gave birth in the water.

It is the most basal known true ichthyosaur, shaped more or less like a dolphin. The long-snouted head is small in comparison with the rest of the body, as in basal ichthyosaurs such as Mixosaurus and Cymbospondylus. The tail is sharply turned downwards, in common with more advanced ichthyosaurs, with a small vertical fluke. It may have had a small dorsal fin. 

[[Cymbospondylus]]

CATEGORIES: Ichthyosaurs

Cymbospondylus was a large but primitive Triassic ichthyosaur of the Middle and Upper Triassic. It had a long eel-like body up to 10 meters or more in length.

Cymbospondylus is known from both Germany and Nevada. No doubt, like other large marine reptiles and present-day aquatic mammals, it had a wide oceanic distribution.

[[Mixosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ichthyosaurs

Mixosaurus was a small, common and cosmopolitan Triassic ichthyosaur. It was only about a meter in length. Fossils are known from Alaska, Canada, China, Timor, Indonesia, Italy, Nevada, New Zealand, Spitsbergen, and Svalbard. Thus it lived in the Tethys Sea but also ventured further afield.

Mixosaurus seems to have been a transitional form between the more primitive eel-shaped icthyosaurs such as Cymbospondylus and the more advanced Shatsasaurs and Euichthyosaurs (the latter including the familiar dolphin- or porpoise-shaped icthyosaurs).

[[Ophthalmosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ichthyosaurs

Ophthalmosaurus was an ichthyosaur of the Upper Jurassic (165 to 150 million years ago), named after its large eyes. Well-preserved skeletons, ranging in age from juveniles to adults, have been found in Europe, North America and Argentina.

Ophthalmosaurus had the largest eyes of any vertebrate relative to its body size. Its eyes, 4 inches in diameter, occupied most of the space in the skull. They were protected by bony plates (sclerotic rings), which most likely assisted to maintain the shape of the eyeballs against water pressure at depth.

The size of the eyes and the sclerotic rings suggests that Ophthalmosaurus hunted at a depth where there is not much light or that it may have hunted at night when a prey species was more active. Its snout was long and thin, perfect for snapping at fast, maneuverable, prey.

Calculations suggest that a typical Ophthalmosaurus could stay submerged for approximately 20 minutes or more. The swimming speed of Ophthalmosaurus has been estimated at 2.5 metres per second or greater. Even assuming a conservative speed of 1 m/s, an Ophthalmosaurus would be able to dive to 600 meters and return to the surface within 20 minutes.

The family Ophthalmosauridae continued into the Upper Cretaceous, but this genus became extinct at the end of the Jurassic period.

[[Valve]]

CATEGORIES: Hardware (mechanical)

A valve is a device that it is used to decrease or stop the flow of a fluid (like gases, liquids, fluidized solids, or slurries). It can be installed for example in a pipe or a vessel.

There are many types of valves. Some examples are:

They can be operated manually or automatically.

[[Valve (disambiguation)]]

A valve is a device that regulates the flow of fluids.

Valve may also refer to:

[[Philip Carteret]]

CATEGORIES: 1733 births, 1796 deaths, Admirals, English explorers, Royal Navy officers

Philip Carteret (22 January 1733 – 21 July 1796) was an English officer in the Royal Navy. He sailed as a lieutenant on John Byron's circumnavigation (sailing around) of the world in 1764. He went around the world again as part of the Royal Navy's exploration in 1766. 

[[Judeo-Aramaic]]

CATEGORIES: Semitic languages

Judeo-Aramaic is a dialect of Aramaic that was spoken by many Jews during the Second Temple Period (587 BC-70 AD) and for a few centuries afterward. Probably the mother tongue of Jesus, it was influenced mostly by Hebrew.

[[Sarah Jane Smith]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

Sarah Jane Smith is a fictional character in the British television series Doctor Who and its related spin-offs. She is played by Elisabeth Sladen. Sarah Jane was a companion of the Third and Fourth Doctor. 

She is an investigative journalist. Sarah Jane Smith is one of the companions who travelled the longest with the Doctor; Sarah Jane is also one of the most popular and well known companions. 

Sarah Jane appeared in two spin-offs: K-9 and Company, and the as the main character of the ongoing series The Sarah Jane Adventures. Sarah Jane also appeared in the new Doctor Who series with the Tenth Doctor ("School Reunion", "The Stolen Earth", "Journey's End").

[[Fold mountain]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains, Plate tectonics

Fold mountains are mountains formed mainly by the effects of folding on layers in the upper part of the Earth's crust. The term is rather out of date, though still fairly common in physical geography literature.

In the time before plate tectonics became well understood, the term was used for  mountain belts, such as the Himalayas. These mountain ranges are not caused by the folding of the earth's crust. The main mechanism causing a thickening of the crust at these sites of continent-continent collision along boundary is thrust faulting.

Fold mountains are formed when two tectonic plates move together (a convergent plate boundary). Fold mountains are usually formed from sedimentary rocks which accumulated along the margins of continents. When plates and the continents riding on them collide, the accumulated layers of rock may crumple and fold like a tablecloth that is pushed across a table, particularly if there is a mechanically weak basal layer such as salt.

[[Boris Berezovsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2013 deaths, People from Moscow, Russian businesspeople, Russian mathematicians, Russian Orthodox Christians, Suicides by hanging in the United Kingdom

Boris Abramovich Berezovsky (23 January 1946 – 23 March 2013) was a Russian-British business man, billionaire, and former mathematician. He was best known for the powerful positions he held in the 1990s when Boris Yeltsin was president of Russia.

Berezovsky was deputy secretary of Russia's security council, and a friend of Boris Yeltsin's daughter Tatyana. He had a lot of power over what the newspapers were allowed to print and what the television stations could say. They were not allowed to say anything bad about Yeltsin.

Berezovsky made his fortune importing Mercedes cars into Russia in the 1990s. He made a lot of money from Avtovaz cars and he owned the Sibneft oil company.

When Putin came to power Berezovsky fled to London where he was given political asylum. He said that he was trying to put an end to Putin's power. The Russian authorities accused him of trying to murder several leading critics of Putin's regime, including Alexander Litvinenko and journalist Anna Politkovskaya, in order to make Putin look bad.  The Swiss accused him of taking money illegally.

In 1994 someone tried to kill Berezovsky. Several other people may have tried to kill him. He said these people were Russian agents.

Berezovsky died on 23 March 2013 in Sunninghill, Berkshire, England, aged 67. He lived in London, England. On March 25, police said that his death was caused by hanging. There were no signs of a struggle.

[[Leptictidium]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Mammals

Leptictidium (meaning delicate weasel) was a genus of small prehistoric eutherian from Eocene period. this extinct species of mammal lived alongside the dinosaurs, but died out when the tropical forests opened up. 

Leptictidium had long hind legs, and probably used only those two legs when moving fast. Whether it hopped on two legs or ran bipedally is still a matter of debate. It had a long, bare tail which acted as a counterbalance, and a long, mobile snout to help it find its prey.

The leptictids were found right across Eurasia. Leptictidium itself was a specialised hopper with the best preserved specimens found in the Messel shales of Germany.

[[Oceanic dolphin]]

CATEGORIES: Oceanic dolphins

Oceanic dolphins are the members of the Delphinidae family, of the order Cetacea. They are aquatic mammals. They are found worldwide, mostly in the shallower seas of the continental shelves. These dolphins usually live in the open seas, unlike the river dolphins.

[[Horatio Spafford]]

CATEGORIES: 1828 births, 1888 deaths, American Christians, Christian hymnwriters, Writers from Illinois

Horatio Gates Spafford (October 20, 1828, Troy, New York - October 16, 1888, Jerusalem, Israel) is the author of the hymn "It Is Well with My Soul". Horatio was a lawyer in Chicago. He lost all of his possessions in the great Chicago fire. After that, he lost his only son to a disease at the age of four. He then planned a family holiday and was held up for business reasons. His family went ahead any way, on the ship all four of his daughters died and his wife survived.

Whilst going to meet his grieving wife, he got the inspiration for the song, "It Is Well with My Soul".

[[Cyber high school]]

CATEGORIES: Types of educational institutions

Cyber  high school is a high school on the internet. It teaches students over the Internet. It means that a high school student has the option of receiving their education at home.

[[Always Coming Home]]

CATEGORIES: Books by Ursula K. Le Guin, 1985 books

Always Coming Home is a book that was written by Ursula K. Le Guin in 1985. This book is a novel about a group of humans called the Kesh, living in the future in California.

[[Hainish Cycle]]

CATEGORIES: Hainish Cycle

The Hainish Cycle is the setting for a number of science fiction books and stories that were written by Ursula K. Le Guin. 

[[Fanny Crosby]]

CATEGORIES: 1820 births, 1915 deaths, American Methodists, American poets, American songwriters, Blind people, Christian hymnwriters, Christian writers, Gospel Music Hall of Fame inductees, Writers from New York City

Frances Jane Crosby (usually known as Fanny Crosby) (March 24, 1820 – February 12, 1915) was an American poet and lyricist. She wrote Protestant hymns. She was a lifelong Methodist. She wrote over 8,000 hymns in her life, even though she became blind shortly after she was born. She was also known for her preaching and speaking.

Crosby is one of the most famous hymn writers in history. Some of her most well-known and best-loved songs are "Blessed Assurance", "Pass Me Not, O Gentle Saviour", and "To God Be the Glory".

[[Melville Island (Canada)]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada

Melville Island is a member of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, Canada with an area of 42149. No one lives on Melville Island. It is the 33rd biggest island in the world and Canada's 8th biggest island. Melville Island is shared by the Northwest Territories, which has the western half of the island, and Nunavut, which has the eastern half. The mountains on Melville Island are some of the biggest in the western Canadian Arctic. Some of them reach heights of one kilometre.

Melville Island was first visited by the British explorer Sir William Parry in 1819. Not only did he find the island, but he had to spend the winter at what is now called "Winter Harbour", until August 1, 1820. The island is named for Robert Dundas, 2nd Viscount Melville who was First Sea Lord at the time.

[[Southampton Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada

Southampton Island is one of the bigger members of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. It is a big island at the entrance to Hudson Bay, Canada. It is part of the Kivalliq Region of the Nunavut Territory. The area of the island is 41,214 km². It is the 34th biggest island in the world and Canada's 9th biggest island. The only settlement on Southampton Island is Coral Harbour (pop. 712, Canada 2001 Census), called in Inuit Salliq.

[[Prince of Wales Island (Nunavut)]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada

Prince of Wales Island one of the bigger members of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. It is an Arctic island in Nunavut, Canada, between Victoria Island and Somerset Island and south of the Queen Elizabeth Islands.

It is a low tundra-covered island with an irregular coastline deeply indented by Ommanney Bay in the west and Browne Bay in the east. Its area has been thought to be around 33 339 km². Prince of Wales Island is the world's 40th biggest island and the 10th biggest in Canada. Its highest known point, found at 73°49'N; 97°50'W – and 320 m high – is an unnamed spot in the island's far northeastern end http://www.peakbagger.com/peak.aspx?pid=681 overlooking the Baring Channel, which separates the island from nearby Russell Island.

[[Somerset Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada

Somerset Island is a member of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. It is a big island across the 2 km wide Bellot Strait from the Boothia Peninsula in the Qikiqtaaluk Region of Nunavut, Canada.  It has an area of 9,570 square miles (24,786 km²), making it the 45th biggest island in the world and Canada's twelfth biggest island. No one lives on Somerset Island

[[Provinces of Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Ireland, 1922 disestablishments in Europe

The Provinces of Ireland were the main divisions of Ireland prior to 1922 when it was partitioned as a result of the majority of it becoming independent.  Ireland was divided into four different provinces, or territorial divisions.

The four provinces are:

[[Mission statement]]

CATEGORIES: Business

A mission statement tells the purpose of a company or organization.  Basically, it says in a very short way WHO the organization does something for, WHAT is the kind of thing it does, and WHICH WAY it does it (that is, instead of other ways one could do that same thing). It can be used to tell quickly what the organization does. It can also help to give members of the organization a common idea of what they're here to do. 

A mission statement basically sums up everything that something is about. Put very simply, for performance it would sum up what the purpose of the performance is. That might be to entertain.

Examples:

McDonald's - Mission statement: "To provide the fast food customer food prepared in the same high-quality manner world-wide that is tasty, reasonably-priced & delivered consistently in a low-key décor and friendly atmosphere." December 2011

World Vision - Mission statement (well, part of it): "...working with the poor and oppressed to promote human transformation, seek justice and bear witness to the good news of the Kingdom of God"

[[Mission]]

A mission can be any of the following:

[[Philip Bliss]]

CATEGORIES: 1838 births, 1876 deaths, American Protestants, Christian hymnwriters, Evangelists, Writers from Pennsylvania

Philip Paul Bliss (July 9, 1838 – December 29, 1876) was an American writer of hymns. He was also a Gospel music singer. He wrote many well-known hymns in his lifetime. He also wrote the tune for Horatio Spafford's It Is Well with My Soul.

[[List of European countries by area]]

CATEGORIES: Europe-related lists, Lists of countries

This is a list of European countries, by geographical area:

Notes: Some of these countries are also considered part of Asia. Their names are given in italics and only their European area is given. 

Not all states within the geographical region are part of the European Union, although member states are in the majority. Non-member states are marked with an asterisk (*). This currently includes all of the Asian border states.

Some of the smaller countries, marked (†), are represented indirectly in the EU by larger EU members. 

[[Graphical projection]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

A graphical projection is a protocol by which an image of a three-dimensional object is projected onto a planar surface without the help of math.

[[List of cities in Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Romania, Romania-related lists, Lists of cities in Europe, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Romania, by population for the first section, and a complete listing in the second section:

[[William Wilberforce]]

CATEGORIES: 1759 births, 1833 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British abolitionists, English activists, English Anglicans, English philanthropists, Evangelicals, Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People buried in Westminster Abbey, People from Kingston upon Hull, Politicians from Yorkshire

William Wilberforce (24 August 1759–29 July 1833) was a British evangelical politician and philanthropist. He was a leader of the movement to end the slave trade.

[[Flag of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Romania

The flag of Romania is a vertical tricolour of blue, yellow, and red. The colours stand for the three historical provinces of Romania. The current design was made official in 1994, but the flag has been used since 1989. The first design of the flag was in 1834, but the three colours date from the sixth century. It is very similar to the Flag of Chad.

[[Coat of arms of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Romania, National coats of arms

The Coat of arms of Romania is the coat of arms that has been adopted by the Romanian Parliament on 10 September 1992.  The design for it came from the coat of arms that the Kingdom of Romania created back in 1922. It displays a golden aquila that is holding a cross in its beak.  It also shows a mace and a sword in its claws.  It contains the three colors of the Flag of Romania: red, yellow, and blue.

[[Sighişoara]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Romania, Cities in Romania

Sighişoara is a city and municipality in Mureş County, Romania. It is on the Târnava Mare River.  Sighişoara had a population of 28.102 people as of 2011.May 2021

[[Treaty of Berlin]]

The name Treaty of Berlin can be any of the following treaties:

[[Athens]]

CATEGORIES: Athens, Olympic cities

Athens is one of the most famous cities in the world. It is the capital city of Greece and the most important financial, industrial, maritime, political and cultural center of the country. 

It is also one of the world's oldest cities. Scholars disagree on whether the city is named for the goddess Athena, or the goddess for the city.  Athens has a population of about 4 million people and is growing. It is in the prefecture, or division of the country, of Attica. Its port, Piraeus, is the largest passenger port in Europe, and the second largest port in the world. 

Athens has a borderline cold semi-arid climate (BSk in the Köppen climate classification) and a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Köppen climate classification). The average rainfall is relatively low, due to the rain shadow from the Parnitha mountains. Frost is infrequent and snow does not occur every winter.

[[Quechuas]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in South America, Argentina, Bolivia, Peru

Quechuas is the term used for several ethnic groups in South America that use a Quechua language (Southern Quechua mainly). They belong to several ethnic groups in South America, above all in Peru, Bolivia and Argentina.

The Quechuas of Ecuador call themselves - as well as their language Kichwa - Kichwas or Quichuas. The Kichwa-speaking group of Colombia are the Ingas.

Some (historic) Quechua peoples:

[[Members Church of God International]]

CATEGORIES: Christian denominations, Philippines

The Members Church of God International is a group of members of a Christian denomination with headquarters in the Philippines. Commonly known by their TV show Ang Dating Daan (The Old Path), they have million members and has thousands of locales worldwide. Currently, their presiding minister is Eliseo Soriano ang their vice presiding Minister is Daniel S. Razón. Eliseo Soriano is currently preaching in other countries. They reject the Roman Catholic belief about Trinity.

[[Viceroyalty of Perú]]

CATEGORIES: History of South America, 1540s establishments in South America, 1824 disestablishments, 16th century establishments in Spain, Disestablishments in South America, 1542 establishments

The Viceroyalty of Peru (in Spanish, Virreinato del Perú) was a Spanish colonial administrative district that was created in 1542 and originally contained most of Spanish-ruled South America. It was governed from the capital of Lima. 

[[Vilcabamba, Peru]]

CATEGORIES: Inca civilization, 1572 disestablishments, 16th-century establishments in the Viceroyalty of Peru, 16th century disestablishments in South America, 1530s establishments in South America, 1539 establishments

Vilcabamba  was founded by Manco Inca in 1539 and was the last city of the Inca Empire until it fell to the Spaniards in 1572. That meant the end of Inca resistance to Spanish rule.

[[Vere Gordon Childe]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1957 deaths, Archaeologists, Australian social scientists, People from Sydney

Vere Gordon Childe (Usually known as Gordon Childe) (Sydney, New South Wales, 14 April 1892 – Mount Victoria, New South Wales, 19 October 1957) was an Australian archaeologist. He was best known for his excavation of the unique Neolithic site of Skara Brae in Orkney. He is also credited with coining the terms 'Neolithic Revolution' and 'Urban Revolution'. He attempted to place his discoveries inside a theory of prehistoric development on a wider European and world scale.

[[Eric Bogosian]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American television actors, American playwrights, Actors from Massachusetts, Writers from Massachusetts

Eric Bogosian (born April 24, 1953) is an American actor, playwright, monologist, and novelist. 

[[Jōmon period]]

CATEGORIES: Periods in Japanese history

The Jōmon period is the time in Japanese prehistory which started in roughly 14,000 BC to 10,000 BC. 

The period ended in roughly 500 BC or 400 BC to 300 BC.  

"Jōmon" means "patterns of plaited cord" or "cord-patterned"  from the way they decorated their pottery. 

The Jōmon came long ago from Central Asia and southern Siberia to Japan. They were very different from modern East Asians and were more similar to Europeans and people in the Middle East. Many scientists link them to the paleolithic population of Europe (Cro-Magnon). Their culture is unique and some similarities exists with Native American cultures of the northwestern coastal cultures.

[[Hominid]]

CATEGORIES: Hominids

A hominid is any member of the biological family Hominidae. These are the "great apes", living and extinct. At present there are humans, chimpanzees, gorillas and orangutans.

The word "hominid" has been used in various ways. The classification of the great apes has been revised several times in the last few decades. These revisions led to different uses of the word "hominid". The original meaning of the taxon Hominidae meant only humans and their closest relatives. Now this group is called the Hominina.

The primatological term hominid is easily confused with a number of similar words:

The dispute is really about whether humans and Australopithecines are sufficiently different from chimpanzees to rank as a separate family. In morphology and life style they are, in genetics they are not.

A move from rainforest to savannah and woodland led first to bipedalism (walking on two feet). Later, hunting and social needs led to larger brains and the making and use of tools. These differences between human beings and the other great apes are certainly important. However, a genetically based taxonomic classification shows the genetic differences are not enough to divide us into separate families. Genetics, rather than morphology, is generally more widely accepted as the critical standard. However, many scientists, including anthropologists, use the term "hominid" to mean humans and their direct and near-direct ancestors.

[[Treaty of Berlin (1878)]]

CATEGORIES: 1878, 19th century in France, 1870s in Germany, 19th century in Italy, 1870s in the United Kingdom, Ottoman Empire, 19th century treaties

The Treaty of Berlin was a part of the Congress of Berlin (June 13-July 13, 1878). In it, the United Kingdom, Austria-Hungary, France, Germany, Italy, Russia and the Ottoman Empire wrote the Treaty of San Stefano.

[[2007 enlargement of the European Union]]

CATEGORIES: European Union, Bulgaria, Romania, 21st century in Romania, 2007 in Europe

The 2007 enlargement of the European Union joined Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union. It happened on 1 January 2007. The Treaty of Accession was signed on April 25, 2005 at Luxembourg, Neumünster Abbey. It was the seventh time the Union accepted new members.

[[National Bank of Romania]]

CATEGORIES: Banks, Bucharest, 1880 establishments in Europe

The National Bank of Romania (Banca Naţională a României, BNR) is the central bank of Romania. It started in April 1880. It is in the capital city, Bucharest. The bank's first governor was Eugeniu Carada.

[[Treaty of Berlin (1742)]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century treaties

The Treaty of Berlin was signed on July 28, 1742 between Austrian archduchess Maria Theresa and Frederick II of Prussia. 

[[Treaty of Berlin (1889)]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century treaties, 19th century in Oceania, Samoa, 1880s in the United Kingdom, 1889 in the United States, 19th century in Germany

The Treaty of Berlin was signed on June 14, 1889 between the United States, the British Empire, and the German Empire. 

[[Treaty of Berlin (1899)]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century treaties, Samoa, 1899 in the United States, 1890s in the United Kingdom, 19th century in Germany

The Treaty of Berlin  was signed on 14 November 1899 between the United States, Germany, and the British. 

Before the treaty was signed, the British, Germans, and Americans wanted Samoa to trade with. Based on the treaty, Samoa was divided between Germany and the United States. Western Samoa went to Germany, while Eastern Samoa went to the United States.

[[Treaty of Berlin (1921)]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 in Europe, 1921 in the United States, 1920s in Germany, History of Berlin, 1920s treaties

The Treaty of Berlin (1921) was between the United States and Germany. The US did not agree with parts of the 1919 Treaty of Versailles and wanted to sign a different treaty.

[[Treaty of Berlin (1926)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926, 1920s in Germany, History of Berlin, History of the Soviet Union, 1920s treaties

The Treaty of Berlin was signed on 24 April 1926. It was between Germany and the Soviet Union. Each promised to stay neutral if another country attacked them for the next five years. 

[[Nome, Alaska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Alaska

Nome is a city on the southern Seward Peninsula coast on Norton Sound of the Bering Sea. It is in the Nome Census Area of the U.S. state of Alaska.

The city of Nome claims to be home to the world's largest gold pan.  But the Canadian city of Quesnel, British Columbia also says they do.

In the winter of 1925, there was a diphtheria epidemic among Inuit in the Nome area. Blizzard conditions made delivery of a life-saving serum by airplane from Anchorage impossible. A serum run to Nome by dog sled teams delivered the serum. The sled driver of the final leg of the relay was the Norwegian-born Gunnar Kaasen; his lead sled dog was Balto. The annual Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race commemorates this historic event.

Nome is home to Alaska's oldest newspaper, the Nome Nugget.

The reality television series Bering Sea Gold is set and filmed in Nome.

[[Miaphysitism]]

CATEGORIES: Christology

Miaphysitism (or henophysitism) is an idea about the nature of Christ. The idea says that Jesus Christ had two different aspects, one godly, and one human. It says these two aspects are united in one nature. They are indistinguishable, and they co-exist.  This is very close to the idea of dualism which says that the mind and the body are separate things that combine to make one unit, the person. In the case of miaphysitism, the separate things are Jesus' divine and human traits.  

Miaphysitism has often been considered by Chalcedonian Christians to be a form of monophysitism, but the Oriental Orthodox Churches themselves reject this characterization, Recently, the Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic Churches have begun to take this position more seriously.

[[Monophysitism]]

CATEGORIES: Christology

Monophysitism is an idea about the nature of Jesus Christ. It says that Christ only has one nature, namely the divine one.

[[Nestorius]]

CATEGORIES: 380s births, 450s deaths, Archbishops, Christian saints, Christian theologians, Eastern Christians, Syrian Christians

Nestorius (Νεστόριος; c. 386–c. 451) was Archbishop of Constantinople from 10 April 428 to 22 June 431. His views were popular in the East.

[[List of cities in Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Italy, Lists of cities in Europe, Lists of cities by country, Italy-related lists

A list of cities in Italy. Cities in bold text are capitals of provinces.

[[Night of the Long Knives]]

CATEGORIES: 1934, 1930s in Germany, Sturmabteilung

The Night of the Long Knives (German: De-Nacht_der_langen_Messer.ogg) or "Operation Hummingbird" (Kolibri) was a purge that took place in Nazi Germany. It happened between 30 June and 2 July 1934 when the Nazi regime executed at least 90 people for political reasons. Most of those killed were members of the "Storm Troopers" (SA) (German: Sturmabteilung). 

Adolf Hitler moved against the SA and its leader, Ernst Röhm, because he saw the independence of the SA and the penchant of its members for street violence as a direct threat to his power. Hitler also wanted to forestall any move by leaders of the Reichswehr, the German military, who both feared and despised the SA, to curtail his rule, especially since Röhm made no secret of his ambition to absorb the Reichswehr with himself at its head. 

Finally, Hitler used the purge to go against conservative critics of his regime, especially those loyal to Vice-Chancellor Franz von Papen, and to settle scores with old enemies, such as Kurt von Schleicher.

[[Bistrița-Năsăud County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania, Transylvania

Bistriţa-Năsăud ('bis.tri.ʦa nə.'sə.ud; Hungarian: Beszterce-Naszód) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Transylvania.  The capital of Bistriţa-Năsăud County is Bistriţa.

[[Botoșani County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Botoşani (bo.to.'ʃanʲ) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Moldavia.  The capital of Botoşani County is Botoşani.

[[Perito Moreno Glacier]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Argentina

The Perito Moreno Glacier (50) is a glacier in the southwest of Santa Cruz province, Argentina. It is one of the most important tourist attractions in the Argentine Patagonia.

The 250 km² ice formation, of 30 km in length, is one of 48 glaciers fed by the Southern Patagonian Ice Field in the Andes system shared with Chile. This icefield is the world's third largest reserve of fresh water.

The Perito Moreno Glacier is one of only three Patagonian glaciers that are not retreating. Periodically the glacier advances over the L-shaped "Lago Argentino" ("Argentine Lake").  when it reaches the opposite shore, it forms a natural dam which separates the two halves of the lake. With no escape route, the water-level on the Brazo Rico side of the lake can rise by up to 30 meters above the level of the main lake. The enormous pressure produced by this mass of waters finally breaks the ice barrier holding it back, in a spectacular rupture event. This dam/rupture cycle is not regular and it naturally recurs at any frequency between once a year to less than once a decade.

The Perito Moreno glacier, 78 from El Calafate, was named after the explorer Francisco Moreno, a pioneer who studied the region in the 19th century and played a major role in defending the territory of Argentina in the conflict surrounding the international border dispute with Chile.

[[Uhland, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Uhland is a city in Caldwell and Hays counties in the U.S. state of Texas. There were 386 people living in Uhland as of the year 2006.

The United States Census Bureau says that the city has an area of 1.8 square miles (4.7 km²), all of it land.

[[Catania]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Italy, Cities in Sicily

Catania is a city in the region of Sicily in Italy. It is on the east coast of Sicily, between Messina and Syracuse. It is the capital of the Province of Catania. 313.110 people live in and over 800,000 around Catania. This makes it the second largest city in Sicily. It has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Köppen climate classification).

[[Messina]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Italy, Cities in Sicily

Messina (in sicilian Missìna) is a city in the region of Sicily. It is the capital of the Province of Messina. About 250,000 people live in and about 500,000 people live around Messina. This makes it the third-largest city in Sicily. It has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Koeppen climate classification).

[[Skara Brae]]

CATEGORIES: Neolithic, Buildings and structures in Scotland, World Heritage Sites in the United Kingdom, Orkney

Skara Brae (ˈskɑrə ˈbreɪ) is a large stone-built Neolithic settlement on the Bay of Skaill on the west coast of mainland Orkney, Scotland. It consists of ten houses, and was occupied from roughly 3100–2500BC. It is Europe's most complete Neolithic village. The level of preservation is such that it is a main part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site of the Heart of Neolithic Orkney. This is one of four UNESCO World Heritage Sites in Scotland, the others being the Old Town and New Town of Edinburgh; New Lanark in South Lanarkshire; and St Kilda in the Western Isles.

[[Skara Brae (disambiguation)]]

Skara Brae is a Neolithic settlement on the west coast of mainland Orkney, Scotland.

The name may also refer to:

[[José Théodore]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American Hockey League players, Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Colorado Avalanche players, Florida Panthers players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hull Olympiques players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Saint-Jean Lynx players, Swedish Hockey League players, Vezina Trophy winners, Washington Capitals players

José Nicholas Théodore (born September 13, 1976 in Laval, Quebec) is a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. He plays for the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League. Before that he played for the Montreal Canadiens where he won the Vezina and Hart trophies in 2001–02 before being traded to the Avalanche in 2006.

[[Georges Vézina]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1926 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Deaths from tuberculosis, Disease-related deaths in Quebec, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Infectious disease deaths in Canada, Montreal Canadiens players, Stanley Cup champions, Montreal Canadiens (NHA) players

Joseph-Georges-Gonzague Vézina (pronounced: /veˈzinə/), nicknamed "The Chicoutimi Cucumber" (January 21, 1887 – March 27, 1926) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played five seasons in the National Hockey League and seven in the National Hockey Association for the Montreal Canadiens. He won the Stanley Cup, a trophy for the best hockey team, two times with the Canadiens, in 1916 and 1924. Vézina played in 327 consecutive regular season games and 39 playoff games, before leaving early during a game in 1925 due to illness. Vézina was diagnosed with tuberculosis, and died on March 27, 1926

The only goaltender to play for the Canadiens between 1910 and 1925, Vézina helped the team win the Stanley Cup in 1916 and 1924, while going to the Stanley Cup Finals three more times. Vézina allowed the fewest goals against in the league seven times in his career: four times in the NHA and three times in the NHL. In 1918, Vézina became the first NHL goaltender to record a shutout and the first to earn an assist on a goal. At the start of the 1926–27 NHL season, the Canadiens donated the Vezina Trophy to the NHL as an award to the goaltender who allowed the fewest goals during the season. Since 1981, the award has been given to the best goaltender as chosen by a vote of NHL general managers. In Vézina's hometown of Chicoutimi, the sports arena is named the Centre Georges-Vézina in honour of Vézina. When the Hockey Hall of Fame opened in 1945, Vézina was one of the original twelve inductees.

[[1980–81 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 in the United States, 1981 in the United States

[[List of NHL seasons]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League seasons, National Hockey League lists

This is a list of National Hockey League seasons since the first year of the league, and also of the league which turned into it, the National Hockey Association:

[[Sokker]]

CATEGORIES: Association football, Online games, Sports video games, 2004 video games

Sokker Manager is a realistic, browser-based online football manager game (MMOG) with an exclusive 3D match engine and a 2D match engine. The game, developed in Poland, began in early 2004 and currently has 98 FIFA countries which users can register to, and as of February 2012, there were over 52,000 registered users world-wide. Each month, Sokker is voted one of the best sports game on the internet, out of the top 50 sports game.

The game is free to play, however there is an optional "Plus" service which will give users access to additional in-game tools that can help them progress as a manager. As a manager, you are in complete control of a team, where you must select players and use strategic tactics in order to defeat the opponent.

[[2006-07 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in ice hockey

The 2006–07 NHL season was the 90th season of operation (89th season of play) of the National Hockey League (NHL). The 2007 Stanley Cup Playoffs began on April 11, 2007 and ended on June 6. The Anaheim Ducks won the Stanley Cup. They were the first team from California to win the Cup.

[[Walrus]]

CATEGORIES: Pinnipeds

A walrus is a marine mammal, the only species of the family Odobenidae, which is one of the three pinniped families. They live in the cold northern seas around North America and Europe.

[[Hattrick (computer game)]]

CATEGORIES: Online games, 1997 video games

 Hattrick  is an online football manager game created by  Björn Holmér. It was released on 20 August 1997. The game has an estimated user amount of 1.000.000 ( one million) spread in over 120 countries.

If one registers himself as user he will  receive a team. The user will then play in a competition with other managers. The user has to care for the whole team. This can be done by buying and selling players, training players, creating tactics and by creating line ups.

[[Torres Strait]]

CATEGORIES: Bodies of water of Australia, Geography of Papua New Guinea, Straits

Torres Strait is the narrow sea between Australia's Cape York and New Guinea. It is about 150 wide and filled with islands, coral reefs and sand banks. The first European to sail through the strait Vanessa uis Vaez de Torres in 1606. There are about 240 islands but only 17 of them have people living on them. While there are about 6,800 Torres Strait Islanders living on the islands, about 42,000 islanders now live on the mainland. The islands belong to Australia and are a part of Queensland. They are governed from Thursday Island by the Torres Strait Regional Authority. They are the only part of Australia to share a border with another country, New Guinea.

[[Hat-trick]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words

A hat-trick, hat trick or hattrick in sports means that something is done 3 times. For example: goals, wickets and so forth. 

[[Cape Schanck, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Capes, Geography of Victoria, Australia

Cape Schanck is the south end of the Mornington Peninsula, Victoria, Australia. It is a piece of land that separates Port Phillip Bay and Westernport Bay. It is a narrow headland with cliffs 84.7 metres (278 feet) high. It has a lighthouse made from limestone built in 1859. In December 1800, Cape Schanck was named by Lieutenant James Grant after Admiral James Schank.

[[Simpson Desert]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts of Australia

The Simpson Desert is a very dry part of Australia. It is mainly in the Northern Territory, but also in the north of South Australia and western Queensland. It covers about 176,500 square km, about 2.3% of Australia. The Simpson Desert gets less than 150 ml of rain each year. It is made up of big red sand dunes up to 40 high, 190 long and about 1 apart. At most times there is no surface water, but after rain there can be rivers which flow into normally dry lakes. Temperatures in summer can be more than 50 C, and in winter can be below 0 C.

Early explorers into the Simpson Desert were Charles Sturt 1845, J.McKinlay, W.O. Hodgkinson, C.Winneke 1883, A.Poeppel 1879. The desert was named after A.A.Simpson, President of the Royal Geographical Society of Australasia in 1929. The first European to cross the desert was Ted Colson in 1936. 

No proper roads cross the desert. There are many tracks that were made during the search for gas and oil during the 1960s and 1970s. These tracks include the French Line, the Rig Road, and the QAA Line. Such tracks can be driven on by well-equipped four-wheel drive vehicles which must carry extra fuel and water.

Towns close to the edge of the Simpson Desert include Oodnadatta to the southwest, and Birdsville in the east. On the western side is the Mount Dare hotel and shop. Before 1980, part of the Commonwealth Railways Central Australian line passed along the western side of the Simpson Desert. Within the Simpson people go to see the ruins at Dalhousie Springs, Purnie Bore wetlands, Approdinna Attora Knoll and Poeppel Corner (where Queensland, South Australia and Northern Territory meet).

[[Yves Saint Laurent]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer deaths in France, Deaths from brain cancer, French fashion designers, French LGBT people, Gay men, LGBT fashion designers, 1936 births, 2008 deaths

Yves Saint Laurent (1 August 1936 – 1 June 2008) was a French fashion designer. Born Yves Henri Donat Mathieu Saint Laurent, in Algeria, he was "one of the greatest figures in French fashion in the 20th century" (Daily Telegraph 2/6/08). 

In 1985, in her book, Couture: the Great Fashion Designers, Caroline Rennolds Milbank wrote, "The most consistently celebrated and influential designer of the past twenty-five years, Yves Saint Laurent can be credited both with spurring couture's rise from its Sixties ashes and with finally rendering ready-to-wear reputable". 

Saint Laurent took over from Christian Dior as the chief designer of the House of Dior (now Christian Dior S.A.). Dior, who founded the company after the Second World War, died in 1957. Saint Laurent was promoted, and proved to be a brilliant choice. Saint Laurent completed six fashion collections before he was called up for military service in 1960.

Military service was a disaster for Saint Laurent, who was invalided out, suffering from mental illness. The House of Dior fired him, but he was able to set up his own fashion house with backing from an American millionaire. For the rest of his life the Yves Saint Laurent fashion house was at the top of Parisian couture.

Saint Laurent was openly gay. He and his partner Pierre Bergé had an impressive art collection, which was sold by auction at Christie's in Paris, 2009. The proceeds, about 300 million euros, was used to set up a foundation for AIDS research.

Saint Laurent died of brain cancer in Paris, France, aged 71.

[[Meeting]]

CATEGORIES: Human communication

A meeting is a group of people who come together at one place to discuss something, make something, or play games together. Meetings can range from internet meetings (people who met on the internet who come together) to birthday parties for children. Meetings can be also on formal times, where businessmen come together to discuss. Furthermore, meetings can be political/religious. For instance, politicians meet from time to time to deliberate on issues, map up strategies and trash out issues. Likewise, religious leaders congregate to discuss developing issues, problems and successes chalked.Come to Jesus meetings are called in order to settle disputes between employers and employees as well as airing out personal matters.

[[African buffalo]]

CATEGORIES: Bovines, Mammals of Africa

The African buffalo (Syncerus caffer), is a bovine (cloven hoofed animal). It is also known as the Cape buffalo. They are not closely related to other bovines. Because of its aggressive behavior, it has not been domesticated like the domestic Asian water buffalo. 

[[Philosophy of language]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

Philosophy of language is the study of how languages were created and are used. It is part of Linguistics. In continental philosophy, it is not treated as a subject by itself, but Ludwig Wittgenstein and other analytic philosophers placed particular stress on it.

Like all philosophies, there are some central questions that are important in philosophy of language:

History

Ancient Greek

Plato was the first philosopher we know was interested in philosophy of language although his teacher Socrates probably was too He believed that the smallest parts of words phonemes had meaning even if they were outside the words they are in This is not a very good theory and Plato understood that there were things wrong with it The Stoics also made a complicated philosophy of The Middle Ages The medieval scholars, such as William Occam also were interested in philosophy of language Occam was the first philosopher to think about the possibility of a mental language He also discussed how a word can refer to both its meaning and the actual word itself Modernity 

Philosophy of language only became more popular in the twentieth century, when Ferdinand de Saussure wrote his book Course in general linguistics Since then philosophy of language has played an important part in philosophy as a whole

[[John Edward Gray]]

CATEGORIES: 1800 births, 1875 deaths, British zoologists, English science writers, Philatelists, Fellows of the Royal Society, British naturalists, British ornithologists, British scientists, English biologists, English botanists

John Edward Gray FRS (12 February 1800 – 7 March 1875) studied medicine in London, and became an English zoologist.

Gray was Keeper of Zoology at the British Museum from 1840 until Christmas 1874. That was before the natural history holdings were split off to be the Natural History Museum.

Gray published several catalogues of the museum collections which discussed animal groups and described new species. He improved the collections to make them amongst the best in the world.

During his life he wrote over 500 academic papers, mostly on new species.

Gray was also interested in postage stamps; on 1 May 1840, the day the Penny Black first went on sale, he bought some to keep, thus making him the world's first known stamp collector.

[[Brăila County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Brăila (brə.'i.la) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in Muntenia. The capital of Brăila County is Brăila.

[[Buzău County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Romania

Buzău (bu.'zəu) is a county (judeţ) of Romania, in the area of Muntenia.  The capital of Buzău County is Buzău.

[[The Dispossessed]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 books, Hainish Cycle, Hugo Award winning books

The Dispossessed: An Ambiguous Utopia is a 1974 science fiction book that was written by Ursula K. Le Guin.  It takes place in the same place as the book The Left Hand of Darkness. The book won both the Hugo Award and the Nebula Award in 1975.

[[The Word for World Is Forest]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 books, Hainish Cycle

The Word for World Is Forest is a science fiction book that was written by Ursula K. Le Guin in 1976. It is part of the Hainish Cycle.

[[Rocannon's World]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 books, Hainish Cycle

Rocannon's World was Ursula K. Le Guin's first book.  It was written in 1966 as an Ace Double with Avram Davidson's The Kar-Chee Reign. The book is part of the Hainish Cycle.

[[Procrastination]]

CATEGORIES: Habits, Human behavior

Procrastination is the behavior of putting off actions or tasks to a later time. It can be a very bad thing to do because you do not get enough things done.

[[NightRider]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Melbourne, Bus transport

The Nightrider bus service is a late-night bus service that runs in Melbourne, Victoria.  NightRider buses travel between the city (City Square, Swanston Street) and Melbourne's outer suburbs every 30 minutes between 1.30am – 4.30am on Saturdays and 1.30am – 5.30am on Sundays.  NightRider also has services to the city on most routes after midnight until approximately 3.30am on Saturdays and 4.30am on Sundays, with additional services on some routes.

[[Government of Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Victoria, Australia

The Government of Victoria is the main government of Victoria. Its leader is the Premier of Victoria.

[[Planet of Exile]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 books, Hainish Cycle

Planet of Exile is a 1966 science-fiction book that was written by Ursula K. Le Guin in her Hainish Cycle.  It was first part of an Ace Double in 1966 with Mankind Under the Leash by Thomas M. Disch.

[[City of Illusions]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 books, Hainish Cycle, American novels

City of Illusions is a 1967 science fiction book that was written by Ursula K. Le Guin in her Hainish Cycle. City of Illusions was republished in 1978 with Rocannon's World and Planet of Exile in a set called Three Hainish Novels and in 1994 with the same books in Worlds of Exile and Illusion.

[[WALL-E]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 animated movies, Disney animated movies, English-language movies, Fictional robots, Pixar movies, Movies that won the Best Animated Feature Academy Award, Post-apocalyptic movies, Dystopian movies, Movies directed by Andrew Stanton

Wall-E is a 2008 American animated movie created by Pixar and Disney. It was released on June 27, 2008 by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures.

[[Live-action]]

CATEGORIES: Technology

In movie and video, live-action is a work that is acted out by human actors, instead of animating the works as in the animated version of E. B. White's Charlotte's Web.

[[John Hagee]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, American conservatives, American Pentecostals, American theologians, Anti-Communists, Christian ministers, Christian theologians, Christian writers, Creationists, Television evangelists, Television personalities from Texas, Writers from San Antonio, Texas, Zionists

John Charles Hagee (born April 12, 1940) is the founder and senior pastor of Cornerstone Church in San Antonio, Texas, a church with more than 19,000 members. Hagee is CEO at his non-profit corporation, Global Evangelism Television (GETV).

He is also founder and chairman of Christians United for Israel (CUFI). This is a Christian organization supporting Zionism.

Hagee is a Pentecostal, and wrote a lot of Christian books.

He is critical of Islam, European Union, communism, feminism, abortion and a man-made climate change.

== References == 

[[Protectorate]]

CATEGORIES: Countries

A protectorate is a state that is protected by another, larger and stronger country based on an agreement between the protectorate and the protecting country. These were very common in the 19th century, especially in Africa and South Asia, when European countries would give protection to small states or places there. Often they also made an international trade agreement which restricted the trade of other foreign states. 

The British Empire had many protectorates around the world. The first was The Protectorate of the Commonwealth of England in the 1660s, Bahrain was also a British protectorate until it gained independence. Later, Kuwait was a British protectorate from 1899 to 1961 and is now independent. Sikkim was a protectorate of India until 1975 and now is a state of India. Bhutan is also a protected state of India.

[[Hybrid]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics, Hybrids

A hybrid is the product of mating between individuals of different species or strains. The word is most common when talking about animals and plants.

Mules are hybrid animals. The female parent is a horse and the male parent is a donkey. The result, a mule, is sterile. Not all hybrids are sterile. Many garden plants and crop plants are hybrids. New species are sometimes formed from hybrids between two other species.

[[Charles Sturt]]

CATEGORIES: 1795 births, 1869 deaths, English explorers, Exploration of Australia

Charles Sturt (28 April 1795 — 16 June 1869) was a British Army officer who became an early explorer of Australia. He described the Murray, the Murrumbidgee and Darling Rivers. Sturt searched the desert areas of Australia in the hope of finding an inland sea.

[[List of cities in Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Lists of cities in North America, Mexico-related lists, Lists of cities by country

This is a list of cities in Mexico with a population over 100,000.

[[Taranto]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Italy, Cities in Apulia

Taranto is a city in the Apulia region of Italy. It is the capital of the Province of Taranto. The population is 201,349. Taranto also has a large port.

[[Parma]]

CATEGORIES: Parma, Capital cities in Italy

Parma is a city in the region of Emilia-Romagna. It is the capital of the Province of Parma. About 190,000 people live in Parma. It has one of the oldest universities of the world, the University of Parma.

Parma has a humid subtropical climate (Cfa in the Köppen climate classification). 

[[Olbia]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Italy, Cities and towns in Sardinia, Communes of Sardinia

Olbia (Terranoa, Tarranoa) is a city in the region of Sardinia. Together with Tempio Pausania it is the capital of the Province of Olbia-Tempio.

[[Civitavecchia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lazio

Civitavecchia is a city in the region of Lazio, Italy. It is 80 km north of Rome. It has a sea port.

[[Agrigento]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Italy, Cities in Sicily

Agrigento (Girgenti) is a city in the region of Sicily in southern Italy. It is also the capital of the Province of Agrigento. There are many relics there from the ancient Greeks and the Roman empire.

[[Reggio Emilia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Emilia-Romagna, Capital cities in Italy

Reggio Emilia is a city in the region of Emilia-Romagna in Italy. It has 167,013 people living in it.

[[Coke]]

Coke may mean:

[[The Jungle Book]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 books, Works by Rudyard Kipling, British short stories, Books with jungle settings, Children's books

The Jungle Book is a collection of stories written by Rudyard Kipling. It was published by Macmillan & Co. in 1894. The stories tell about life and legends of the Indian jungle. Parts of The Jungle Book have been adapted to television, movies, the theater, and other media.

[[WrestleMania 21]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in professional wrestling, Sports in Los Angeles, WrestleMania, 2005 in American television, 2000s in Los Angeles, California

WrestleMania 21 was the twenty-first yearly WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on April 3, 2005 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. The official theme song for the event was "Big Time" by The Soundtrack of Our Lives. The secondary theme song was "Behind Those Eyes" by 3 Doors Down. The tagline for WrestleMania 21 was "WrestleMania Goes Hollywood."

The event was a joint-promotion pay-per-view, featuring performers from the Raw and SmackDown! brands. The main match on the Raw brand was Triple H versus Batista for the World Heavyweight Championship, which Batista won by pinfall after executing a Batista Bomb. The main match on the SmackDown! brand was John "Bradshaw" Layfield versus John Cena for the WWE Championship, which Cena won after performing an FU. The featured matches on the undercard included The Undertaker versus Randy Orton, Kurt Angle versus Shawn Michaels, and the first ever Money in the Bank ladder match, which featured six participants from the Raw brand.

WrestleMania 21 was the first WrestleMania held at the Staples Center, but the fifth to take place in the Southern California metropolitan area (following WrestleMania 2, WrestleMania VII, WrestleMania XII and WrestleMania 2000). Tickets sold out in less than one minute for the eventApril 2009, making it the fastest ticket sell-out in the company's history as well as the fastest ticket sell-out at the Staples Center. The event drew a Staples Center record attendance of 20,193 people from 14 countries and 48 states and grossed more than $2.1 million in ticket sales, making it the highest grossing WWE event ever at the Staples Center, and the highest grossing of the five WrestleManias held in California. In addition to those in attendance, the event was seen by millions of fans in more than 90 countries.

[[Tangor]]

CATEGORIES: Citrus

The tangor is a citrus fruit. It is a hybrid of the tangerine and the sweet orange. The name "tangor" is a mix of the "tang" in tangerine and the "or" in orange.

[[Imperial lemon]]

CATEGORIES: Citrus

The Imperial lemon is a lemon and grapefruit hybrid. It is a citrus fruit. Its fruit is slightly larger than a lemon but smaller than a cherimoya.

[[Cagliari]]

CATEGORIES: Communes of Sardinia, Phoenician colonies, Regional capitals in Italy

Cagliari (Casteddu) is a city in the region of Sardinia in Italy. It is also the capital of the Province of Cagliari. Cagliari has one of the biggest ports in the Mediterranea Sea and an international airport.

There are 149,575 people living in the city. With an area of 85.45, its population density is of 149575 inhabitants/km². It is bordered by the comuni of Assemini, Capoterra, Elmas, Monserrato, Quartu Sant'Elena, Quartucciu, Selargius and Sestu.

It is also the seat of the University of Cagliari from 1607 and the Primate Roman Catholic archdiocese of Sardinia, from the 5th century AD.

Cagliari has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Koeppen climate classification).

[[Foggia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Apulia, Capital cities in Italy

Foggia is a city in the region of Apulia, Italy. It is the capital of the Province of Foggia.

[[Rimini]]

CATEGORIES: Rimini, Capital cities in Italy

Rimini is a city in the region of Emilia-Romagna in Italy. It is also the capital of the Province of Rimini. About 138,000 people live in Rimini. 

Rimini is a popular seaside resort known for its bars and nightclubs. It has a humid subtropical climate (Cfa in the Köppen climate classification).

[[Syracuse, Sicily]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Italy, Cities in Sicily

Syracuse (Siracusa, Sarausa) is a city in the region of Sicily in Italy. It is also the capital of the Province of Syracuse. About 125,000 people live in Syracuse. Syracuse is famous for being the place where Archimedes lived.

[[Into the Blue (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: American adventure movies, 2005 movies, English-language movies, 2000s adventure movies

Into the Blue is an American action movie made in 2005.

[[Autofocus]]

CATEGORIES: Optics

Autofocus is a procedure for finding the correct position of the lens for a scene. The autofocus feature can be provided in a system which includes a movable optical element, a motor, an image sensor and a processing unit. The autofocus procedure is done by changing the lense position and image quality measurements in each position. The position that provides the image with the best quality will be used as the best focus.

The image quality may be estimated using image gradients. To speed-up the autofocus procedure, the autofocus is done in two steps: the first run over the full range of the lenses movement with a significant step will provide the estimated position which will be improved in the second run over the small range with a small step. Interpolation between the few best positions may improve the results accuracy.

[[Shiba Inu]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

The Shiba Inu is a breed of dog from Japan. It looks like a smaller version of the Akita Inu, and was first bred for hunting. Shiba Inu is one of seven Japanese dog species recognised as natural symbols of the country.

There are two types of Shiba. Aka-Shiba has red hair, and Kuro-Shiba has black hair. Shiba is a popular among breeders in Japan.

Shiba inu are faithful to their owners and are wary of strangers. They are popular as guard dogs. They are also the subject of an internet meme called Doge. 

[[Lyric]]

Lyric could mean:

[[Military alliance]]

CATEGORIES: Military, Treaties

A military alliance is an alliance that is made with the express purpose of military matters and promises the defense of all of its members.

[[Jugiong, New South Wales]]

Jugiong is a small village on the bank of the Murrumbidgee River in New South Wales, Australia. It is 344 km south west of Sydney on the Hume Highway. The first people to live in the area were indigenous Australians, the Wiradjuri people. The first Europeans were the explorers Hamilton Hume and William Hovell on their trip in 1824.

Henry O'Brien, an Irishman, started farming sheep in 1825. His farm, called the Jugiong Run, was 125,000 acres. Explorer Charles Sturt reached the Murrumbidgee at Jugiong in 1829 at the start of his travels down the river.

[[Egerton Gospel]]

CATEGORIES: Manuscripts

The Egerton Gospel is a set of papyri that are now in the British Museum. The papyri have been dated to the second century. The text they contain may have been written 50-100 AD. It is one of the oldest known fragments of any gospel, or any codex. Soon after the British Museum acquired it in the summer of 1934, it was printed in 1935. It is also called the Unknown Gospel, as no ancient source makes reference to it, in addition to being entirely unknown before its publication.

The surviving fragments include four stories:

The last story has no equivalent in canonical Gospels:

[[Gospel of Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: Gnosticism, New Testament books

The Gospel of Thomas (or the Gospel according to Thomas, Coptic: p.euaggelion p.kata.cwmas) is a text written during the era of the New Testament. It is considered to be an apocryphon. It was found in Nag Hammadi, Egypt in 1945. 

The text is in the form of a codex, bound in what today is known as Coptic binding. It is almost complete. Unlike the other texts, it is not a narrative, but a collection of sayings and short dialogues attributed to Jesus. There are 114 sayings in the text. Most are compatible with the other gospels. They can also be found in one of the other gospels. Some were unknown to scholars before the codex was found. None of the big Christian groups accepts the Gospel of Thomas as canon.

[[Rubik's Cube]]

CATEGORIES: Puzzles

Rubik's Cube is a puzzle cube, and the world's biggest selling toy of all time with over 300,000,000 (300 million) sold. It was invented in 1974 by Hungarian sculptor and professor of architecture Ernő Rubik. In a classic Rubik's Cube, each of the six faces is covered by nine stickers, each of one of six solid colours: white, red, blue, orange, green, and yellow. In currently sold models, white is opposite yellow, blue is opposite green, orange is opposite red, and some might replace blue with black or purple.

[[Flag of Sierra Leone]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Sierra Leone

The flag of Sierra Leone was created in 1961.

[[Flag of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: National flags, Scotland, Flags of the United Kingdom

The flag of Scotland is a white X-shaped cross (a saltire), which represents the cross of the patron saint of Scotland, Saint Andrew on a blue sky. The flag is called the Saltire or the Saint Andrew's Cross.

[[Scanning tunneling microscope]]

CATEGORIES: Microscopes

Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) is a way to view the shape of tiny objects. It can make pictures of atoms on a surface and move the atoms to different places. It was invented by Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer in 1981 at IBM, in Zürich. In 1986 they won the Nobel Prize in Physics for inventing it. 

[[Energy level]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics, Spectroscopy

Simply defined as the different states of potential energy for electrons in an atom. A quantum mechanical system can only be in certain states, so that only certain energy levels are possible.  The term energy level is most commonly used in reference to the electron configuration in atoms or molecules. In other words, the energy spectrum can be quantized (see continuous spectrum for the more general case). 

As with classical potentials, the potential energy is usually set to zero at infinity, leading to a negative potential energy for bound electron states. 

Energy levels are said to be degenerate, if the same energy level is obtained by more than one quantum mechanical state. They are then called degenerate energy levels.

The following sections of this article gives an overview over the most important factors that determine the energy levels of atoms and molecules.

==Atoms== 

[[Atomic nucleus]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics, Matter

The nucleus is the center of an atom.  It is made up of nucleons called (protons and neutrons) and is surrounded by the electron cloud.  The size (diameter) of the nucleus is between 1.6 fm (10−15 m) (for a proton in light hydrogen) to about 15 fm (for the heaviest atoms, such as uranium).  These sizes are much smaller than the size of the atom itself by a factor of about 23,000 (uranium) to about 145,000 (hydrogen).  Although it is only a very small part of the atom, the nucleus has most of the mass.  Almost all of the mass in an atom is made up from the protons and neutrons in the nucleus with a very small contribution from the orbiting electrons.

Neutrons have no charge and protons are positively charged. Because the nucleus is only made up of protons and neutrons it is positively charged. Things that have the same charge repel each other: this repulsion is part of what is called electromagnetic force. Unless there was something else holding the nucleus together it could not exist because the protons would push away from each other. The nucleus is actually held together by another force known as the strong nuclear force.

The word nucleus is from 1704, meaning “kernel of a nut”. In 1844, Michael Faraday used nucleus to describe the “central point of an atom”. The modern atomic meaning was proposed by Ernest Rutherford in 1912. The use of the word nucleus in atomic theory, however, did not happen immediately. In 1916, for example, Gilbert N. Lewis wrote in his famous article The Atom and the Molecule that "the atom is composed of the kernel and an outer atom or shell".

[[List of governors of Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Florida

The head of the government of the state of Florida is called the Governor of Florida. He is not the head of all parts of the government, but is like the state's president, and is head of the executive branch of the state, which is where decisions about running the state are made. He can also give orders to the military people of the state.

The Governor of Florida is elected every four years.

[[Fred McDowell]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1972 deaths, Blues guitarists, Singers from Memphis, Tennessee, Musicians from Memphis, Tennessee, American guitarists

Fred McDowell (January 12  1904 - July 3 1972) (also known as Mississippi Fred McDowell) was a Delta blues singer and guitar player. His parents died when he was young.

[[Taurus Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of Turkey, Mountain ranges

Taurus Mountains (Turkish: Toros Dağları) are a mountain range in Turkey, from which the Euphrates (Turkish: Fırat) and Tigris (Turkish: Dicle) descend into Syria and Iraq. The Manavgat River comes from its southern slopes. 

The mountain range extends along a curve from Lake Eğirdir in the west to the upper reaches of the Euphrates and Tigris in the east. It has many peaks rising above 10,000–12,000 ft (3,000–3,700 m), with the Demirkazık summit in the region known as Aladağlar, at 3,756 meters (12,322 ft.) as the highest point. Another important peak is Medetsiz (3,524 m/11,561 ft) in the Bolkar Dağları section.

This mountain range divides the Mediterranean region of southern Turkey from the central plateau.

Limestone has eroded to form karstic landscapes of waterfalls, underground rivers, and the largest caves of Asia.

At Kestel is a Bronze Age archaeological site where early evidence of tin mining was found.

[[Montes Taurus]]

CATEGORIES: Surface features of the Moon

Montes Taurus is a mountainous region on the Moon. These peaks are on a highland region to the east of the Mare Serenitatis, in the northeastern quadrant of the Moon's near side. The selenographic coordinates of this range are 27.32, and they have a diameter about 170 km. Some of the peaks within the range achieve heights of 3.0 km.

A number of craters lie within this range. At the southwestern edge of the range is Römer crater, and Newcomb crater is in the northeastern section. Several satellite craters also lie throughout the Montes Taurus.

The Montes Taurus were named by Johannes Hevelius for the Taurus mountains in southern Turkey.

[[Sassari]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Italy, Communes of Sardinia

Sassari is a city in the region of Sardinia in Italy. It is the capital of the Province of Sassari. About 130,000 people live in Sassari. This makes it the second largest city in Sardinia. 

[[Bull Hill]]

CATEGORIES: Mountains of the United States, Geography of New York

Bull Hill, sometimes called Mount Taurus, is a mountain in the U.S. state of New York. It is north of the village of Cold Spring on the Hudson River, in Putnam County. It is part of the mountain range known as the Hudson Highlands.

An old quarry can be seen on its south ridge.

The mountain may have gotten its name from a bull that farmers chased down it. The bull's fall gave the Breakneck Ridge its name.

[[Forlì]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Emilia-Romagna, Capital cities in Italy

Forlì is a city in the region of Emilia-Romagna in Italy. It is the capital of the Province of Forlì-Cesena. About 110,000 people live in Forli. It has a humid subtropical climate (Cfa in the Koeppen climate classification).

Benito Mussolini, dictator of Italy during World War Two, was born near Forli, in Predappio.

[[Zagros Mountains]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Iran, Geography of Iraq

[[Latina, Lazio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Lazio, Capital cities in Italy

Latina is a city in the region of Lazio. It is the capital of the Province of Latina. About 110,000 people live in Latina. This makes it the second largest city in Lazio.

[[Monza]]

CATEGORIES: Monza

Monza is a city in the region of Lombardy. In 2009 it will become the capital of the Province of Monza and Brianza. About 120,000 people live in Monza. This makes it the third largest city in Lombardy.

[[Giugliano in Campania]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Campania

Giugliano in Campania is a city the region of Campania in Italy. It is the largest city in Italy that is not a capital of a province. About 105,000 people live there.

[[French Revolution of 1848]]

CATEGORIES: 1848 in Europe, 19th century in France, Democracy movements, Revolutions, February events

The February 1848 Revolution in France ended the reign of King Louis-Philippe, and led to the creation of the French Second Republic (1848-1852). 

The revolution established the principle of the "right to work" (droit au travail), and decided to establish "National Workshops" for the unemployed. At the same time a sort of industrial parliament was established at the Luxembourg Palace, under the presidency of Louis Blanc. Tensions between liberal Orleanist and Radical Republicans and Socialists would cause the June Days Uprising a few months later.  

Meanwhile the revolution inspired other European Revolutions of 1848.

[[Nyon (district)]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Vaud

The District of Nyon is a district in the canton of Vaud, Switzerland. The seat of the district is the city of Nyon.

[[Skip James]]

CATEGORIES: Blues guitarists, Blues pianists, American guitarists, 1902 births, 1969 deaths, Singers from Mississippi, Musicians from Mississippi, American blues singers

Nehemiah Curtis "Skip" James (June 21, 1902 – October 3, 1969) was an American Delta blues singer, guitarist, pianist and songwriter.

[[Nirvana (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 establishments in the United States, 1994 disestablishments in the United States, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, American rock bands, Grunge bands, Musical groups disestablished in 1994, Musical groups established in 1987, Musical groups from Washington, Nirvana (band), 1980s establishments in Washington (state)

See band members section for others

Nirvana was an American rock band formed in Aberdeen, Washington, in 1987. It was founded by singer and guitarist Kurt Cobain and bassist Krist Novoselic. Nirvana had many drummers, but the final and most well known drummer was Dave Grohl, who joined in 1990. The band ended in 1994 after the death of Cobain. Since they formed, they have sold over 75 million records all over the world.

Nirvana were part of a rock music genre from Seattle called grunge. The genre comes from both punk rock and heavy metal. They released their first album, called Bleach, for record label Sub Pop in 1989. Nirvana's style was songs with quiet verses and loud choruses. After signing to record label DGC Records, in 1991, Nirvana became very popular after releasing the song "Smells Like Teen Spirit". This song was the first single from their second album Nevermind (1991), which sold over 30 million copies worldwide. Nirvana becoming popular also made alternative rock popular. Cobain was then called by some people the "spokesman of a generation".

After many tours and the 1992 compilation album Incesticide and EP Hormoaning, Nirvana released their third studio album In Utero (1993). It was well liked by critics and sold 15 million records worldwide. Nirvana ended after the death of Kurt Cobain in 1994. Some live albums have been released since. MTV Unplugged in New York (1994) won a Grammy Award for  Best Alternative Music Album in 1996.

[[Olaf Kölzig]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, American Hockey League players, German ice hockey players, German Olympians, Living people, New Westminster Bruins players, People from Johannesburg, South African sportspeople, Tampa Bay Lightning players, Tri-City Americans players, Vezina Trophy winners, Washington Capitals players, ECHL players, Ice hockey goaltenders

Olaf Kölzig (born April 6, 1970) is a South African-born German retired professional ice hockey goaltender. He played a career total of 14 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Washington Capitals and the Tampa Bay Lightning.

Kölzig was born in South Africa, but he grew up in several cities across Canada and his family moved to Union Bay, British Columbia, Canada, when he was a teenager. Kölzig never applied for Canadian citizenship, which, combined with his German parentage and German passport, allows him to represent Germany internationally. In May 2008 Kolzig announced that he would not return to the Capitals.

[[WrestleMania I]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 in sports, Sports in New York City, WrestleMania, 20th century in New York City, 1980s in New York (state), 1985 in the United States, March events

WrestleMania (chronologically known as WrestleMania I) was the first WrestleMania professional wrestling event produced by the World Wrestling Federation. It took place on March 31, 1985 at Madison Square Garden in New York, New York. The attendance for the event was 19,121 fans. The event was viewed by over one million fans through closed circuit television, making it the largest event on closed-circuit television in the United States at the time. The event was the start of the Rock 'n' Wrestling gimmick, which brought together professional wrestling and the music industry.

[[León, Guanajuato]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Guanajuato (state), 1576 establishments, 16th-century establishments in Mexico, 1570s establishments in North America

Léon is a city in the state of Guanajuato in Mexico. About 1,150,000 people live in Léon. This makes it the seventh largest city in Mexico and the largest city in Guanajuato.

[[Jim Carey (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, American ice hockey goaltenders, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, People from Dorchester, Massachusetts, Sportspeople from Massachusetts, St. Louis Blues players, Vezina Trophy winners, Washington Capitals players

Jim Carey (born May 31, 1974 in Dorchester, Massachusetts) is a  American retired ice hockey goaltender.

[[Ciudad Juárez]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, 1659 establishments, Settlements in Chihuahua, 17th-century establishments in Mexico

Ciudad Juárez is a city in the Mexician state of Chihuahua. About 1,300,000 people live in Ciudad Juárez. This makes it the fifth largest city in Mexico and the largest city in Chihuahua. It is at the border to the USA, opposite El Paso.

[[San Cristóbal Ecatepec]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Settlements in Mexico (state)

San Cristóbal Ecatepec (or Ecatepec de Morelos) is a city in the state of México in Mexico. About 1,700,000 people live there. This makes San Christóbal de Ectatepec the second largest city in Mexico and the largest in the state of México.

[[Jacques Plante]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1986 deaths, American Hockey League players, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Deaths from stomach cancer, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Rangers players, St. Louis Blues players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners, World Hockey Association players

Joseph Jacques Omer "Jake the Snake" Plante (January 17, 1929 – February 27, 1986) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. He grew up in Shawinigan Falls, Quebec, and began to play hockey in 1932. Plante started to play organized hockey at age 12, and his first professional game was at age 18. He played for the Montreal Canadiens from 1953 to 1963; during this time, the team won the Stanley Cup six times, including five wins in a row.

Plante first retired in 1965, but he was asked to come back to the NHL to play for a new team, the St. Louis Blues, in 1968. Plante was traded to the Toronto Maple Leafs in 1970, and then to the Boston Bruins in 1973. He joined the World Hockey Association, first as coach and general manager for the Quebec Nordiques in 1973–74. After his time with Quebec was not successful, Plante played goal for the Edmonton Oilers in 1974–75. Plante retired for the last time during training camp in the 1975-76 season.

Plante is considered one of the most important inventors in ice hockey. Most importantly, Plante was the first NHL goaltender to always wear mask when playing. With the help of other experts, he made and tested many versions of the goalie mask, including a version of today's mask/helmet combination. Plante was the first goaltender to regularly play the puck outside his crease in support of his team's defencemen, and often instructed his teammates from behind the play, as the goaltender usually has the best view of the game.

Plante was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1978. He was chosen as the goaltender of the Canadiens' "dream team" in 1985. He was inducted into the Quebec Sports Pantheon in 1994. Lastly, the Montreal Canadiens retired Plante's sweater, #1, in 1995.

Plante was the eldest of 11 children. In 1949, he married Jacqueline Gagné; they had two sons, Michel and Richard. In 1970, Plante met his second wife, Raymonde Udrisard, with whom he eventually moved to Switzerland. He died in Geneva, on February 27, 1986, shortly after he had been diagnosed with untreatable stomach cancer. He was buried in Sierre.

[[Hockey Hall of Fame]]

CATEGORIES: Hockey Hall of Fame, Ice hockey in Canada

The Hockey Hall of Fame (Temple de la renommée du hockey) is in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is both a sports history museum and a hall of fame. It holds displays about players, teams, National Hockey League (NHL) records, and NHL trophies, including the Stanley Cup. First opened in Kingston, Ontario, the Hockey Hall of Fame was first began in 1943 by James T. Sutherland. The first group of members was selected in 1945, before the Hall of Fame had a permanent location. It moved to Toronto in 1958 after the NHL took away its support for the Kingston location. Its first permanent building opened at Exhibition Place in 1961. Because the Hall was getting too big for its location, it was moved to an old Bank of Montreal building in downtown Toronto in 1993, where it currently is.

[[Léo Dandurand]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1964 deaths, Canadian football, Montreal Canadiens, Referees

Joseph Viateur "Leo" Dandurand (July 9, 1889 – June 26, 1964), was the owner of the Montreal Canadians in the National Hockey League and in the league that evolved into the Canadian Football League.

Dandurand was born in Bourbonnais, Illinois. He moved to Canada with his family when he was 16 years old and attended Collège Sainte-Marie de Montréal. He was a referee in the National Hockey Association and was involved with minor hockey in the Montreal, Quebec area.

On November 2, 1921, Dandurand and his partners, Joseph Cattarinich and Louis Letourneau, purchased the Montreal Canadiens hockey club from the widow of George Kennedy for $11,000. Under Dandurand's ownership, the Canadiens won the Stanley Cup in 1924, 1930, and 1931. Letourneau sold his stake in the club in 1930, and Dandurand and Cattarinich continued as owners until selling the team in 1935 for $165,000.

Along with hockey, Dandurand and his partners were heavily involved with horse racing. In 1932, they bought Blue Bonnets Raceway in Montreal. They owned 17 tracks in Quebec, Ontario, New York, Ohio, Delaware, Illinois, Utah, and Louisiana at the time of Cattarinich's death in 1938. Dandurand was also a boxing and wrestling promoter in Montreal and a director of the Montreal Royals baseball team.

In 1946, Dandurand founded the Montreal Alouettes football team with Eric Cradock and Lew Hayman. The team played in the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union, which later became the CFL's east division.

In his later years, Dandurand owned a successful restaurant in downtown Montreal. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1963 and died of a heart attack on June 26, 1964 at age 75.

The Leo Dandurand Trophy is a CFL award presented each year to the most outstanding lineman in the East Division.

[[Billy Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, New York Islanders players, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

William John "Battlin' Billy" Smith (born December 12, 1950, in Perth, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender and is best known for winning four Stanley Cups and being the first goalie to be score a goal.

[[Bill Durnan]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1972 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Canadiens players, Sportspeople from Toronto, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

William Ronald Durnan (January 22, 1916 – October 31, 1972) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. He played 7 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played his entire NHL career with the Montreal Canadiens. Until Roberto Luongo was named captain of the Vancouver Canucks on September 30, 2008, Durnan was the last goaltender to be a captain in the National Hockey League, and one of only seven ever. Bill Durnan was ambidextrous, meaning he could catch with either hand. This star goalie is one of the greatest Montreal Canadiens in history. He won the Stanley Cup twice with the Canadiens and was a six-time Vezina Trophy winner. Durnan was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1964.

[[1925–26 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1925, 1926, 1920s in North America

[[1926–27 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1926, 1927 in North America

[[1961–62 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 in North America, 1962 in North America

[[Night of Champions (2008)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in professional wrestling, WWE Night of Champions, Sports in Dallas, Texas, 2008 in Texas, 21st century in Dallas, Texas

WWE Night of Champions was the second yearly Night of Champions professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). Though it was the eighth yearly event, it was the second yearly event under the Night of Champions name. It took place on June 29, 2008 at American Airlines Center in Dallas, Texas and featured talent from the Raw, SmackDown, and ECW brands. The official theme song was "Devour" by Shinedown. As a tradition, every championship in WWE was defended at the event.

[[William M. Jennings Trophy]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards

The William M. Jennings Trophy is an award in the National Hockey League (NHL) given each year to "to the goalkeeper(s) having played a minimum of 25 games for the team with the fewest goals scored against it. Winners are selected based on regular-season play." Up until 1981, the Vezina Trophy had been awarded under that definition, but it was later changed and replaced by the Jennings Trophy. Since it began in 1982, it has been awarded at the end of 25 seasons to 27 different players. The most recent winners are Corey Crawford of the Chicago Blackhawks and Carey Price of the Montreal Canadiens, who both allowed only 189 team goals against for their teams in the 2014–15 NHL season.

[[Gemsbok]]

CATEGORIES: Bovids, Mammals of Africa

The gemsbok or gemsbuck (Oryx gazella) is an African plains antelope.  They are found all over Africa, especially Tanzania, Namibia and South Africa.  

[[The Left Hand of Darkness]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 books, Hainish Cycle, Hugo Award winning books

The Left Hand of Darkness is a science fiction book that was written by Ursula K. Le Guin in 1969. It won the 1969 Nebula and 1970 Hugo awards.

[[Akan language]]

CATEGORIES: Niger-Congo languages

Akan is a language group spoken by related peoples in mainly Ghana and eastern Côte d'Ivoire. Akan belongs to the Kwa group of the Niger-Congo language family.

Akan comprises three main mutually intelligible dialects: Fante, Asante Twi and Akwapim Twi. Asante Twi is the widely used.  Akan is the most widely spoken and used indigenous language in Ghana. About 44%, of Ghana’s population of about 22 million, speak Akan as first language. However, about 80% of Ghanaians speak Akan as a first and second language. It is officially recognized for literacy, at least at the lower primary (Primary 1-3) level, and studied at university as a bachelor or masters program. It is the most important indigenous language of Ghana. It is the language of the Western, Central, Ashanti, Eastern, Brong Ahafo regions, and the northern portion of the Volta region of Ghana.

A form of Akan is also spoken in South America, notably Suriname and Jamaica. The language came to these places through the slave trade. 

Akan is studied in major universities in the United States, including Ohio University, Ohio State University, University of Wisconsin, Harvard University, Boston University, Indiana University, Michigan University, and The University of Florida. It has been a regular African language of study in the annual Summer Cooperative African Languages Institute (SCALI) program.

[[Akkadian language]]

CATEGORIES: Semitic languages, Mesopotamia

Akkadian (llišānum akkadītum) or Assyro-Babylonian was a Semitic language (part of the Afro-Asiatic language family) that was spoken in ancient Iraq. The first-known Semitic language, it used the cuneiform writing system from ancient Sumer.

Akkadian is divided into several varieties based on geography and historical period:

The earliest known Akkadian inscription was found on a bowl at Ur. It was addressed to a very early pre-Sargonic king of Ur by his queen Gan-saman, who is thought to have been from Akkad.

The Akkadian Empire, established by Sargon of Akkad, introduced the Akkadian language (the "language of Akkad") as a written language. It used Sumerian cuneiform orthography (writing method) for the purpose. During the middle Bronze Age (Old Assyrian and Old Babylonian period), the language displaced Sumerian. Sumerian probably became extinct as a living language by the 18th century BC.

[[Afar language]]

CATEGORIES: Cushitic languages

The Afar language (Qafaraf) (also known as ’Afar Af, Afaraf, Qafar af) is a lowland East Cushitic language spoken by the Afar people in Ethiopia, Eritrea and Djibouti. It is thought to have 1.5 million speakers. Its most similar language is the Saho language.

[[Abkhaz language]]

CATEGORIES: Caucasian languages, Languages of Europe, Abkhazia

Abkhaz is a Northwest Caucasian language spoken mostly in Abkhazia (Georgia) and Turkey. It is  the official language of Georgia's Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia, where around 100,000 people speak it.

[[Adyghe language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Russia

The Adyghe language is one of the two main languages of the Republic of Adygea in the Russian Federation. It is spoken by many tribes of the Adyghe people.  The language is called by its speakers "Adygebze" or "Adəgăbză", and can also be spelled in English as Adygean, Adygeyan or Adygei. It is also called Circassian. 

[[WWE Brand Extension]]

CATEGORIES: WWE, WWE Raw, WWE SmackDown!, Extreme Championship Wrestling

The World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E) Brand Extension was a draft first used in 2002 by WWE with the purpose of dividing WWE Superstars into two brands, RAW and SmackDown!. In 2006 ECW was added to the draft.

[[Alemannic German]]

CATEGORIES: German dialects, Languages of Germany, Swiss culture

Alemannic German (Alemannisch) is a group of dialects of the Upper German branch of the Germanic language family. It is spoken by about ten million people in six countries including southern Germany, Switzerland, France, Austria, Liechtenstein, and Italy. In Switzerland it is sometimes called Swiss German. In Alsace, the language is usually called Alsatian.

Outside this area: the village Zădăreni in  Romania, Old-order Amish in Adams County and Allen County in the United States, and  Colonia Tovar in Venezuela. 

In contrast to other languages, Alemannic German is only a spoken language; there is no fixed orthography for the language.

[[Royal Rumble]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 establishments, Royal Rumble, January events

The Royal Rumble is a yearly professional wrestling pay-per-view event, aired every January by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). The show's main event is a Battle Royal-type match, named the Royal Rumble match. The pay-per-view is part of WWE's "Big Four", along with WrestleMania, SummerSlam, and Survivor Series. The Royal Rumble is also one of WWE's more popular pay-per-views.

Since 1993, the winner of the Rumble match has received a title match at that year's WrestleMania.

[[WrestleMania XX]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in professional wrestling, Sports in New York City, WrestleMania, 2004 in American television, 2004 in New York (state), 2000s in New York City

WrestleMania XX was the twentieth WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on March 14, 2004 at Madison Square Garden in New York. It was a joint-promotion pay-per-view event, with performers from the Raw and SmackDown! brands. The tagline for WrestleMania XX was "Where it all Begins... Again". The official theme song for the event was "Step Up" by Drowning Pool. The secondary theme song was "Touché" by Godsmack. The event was the third WrestleMania at Madison Square Garden, but the fourth to take place in the New York metropolitan area (after WrestleMania I, WrestleMania 2, and WrestleMania X). The celebrated return made more than $2.4 million in ticket sales, making the Pay-Per-View the highest grossing  WWE event ever to be at Madison Square Garden. A sold-out Madison Square Garden had more than 20,000 people from 16 countries, and 48 states. Fans from more than 90 countries watched the event on television.

The card for the event has two main events. The main match for the Raw brand was a Triple Threat match for the World Heavyweight Championship between Champion Triple H, Shawn Michaels and Chris Benoit. Benoit won the match, doing the Crippler Crossface, making Triple H let him win after that. The main match for the SmackDown! brand has Eddie Guerrero versus Kurt Angle for the WWE Championship. Guerrero won it after a Small package. The event also had the returning Undertaker beat Kane after a Tombstone Piledriver.

[[WrestleMania 22]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in professional wrestling, Sports in Chicago, Illinois, WrestleMania, 2006 in Illinois

WrestleMania 22 was the twenty-second yearly WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on April 2, 2006 at the Allstate Arena in the Chicago, Illinois suburb of Rosemont. The event was the third WrestleMania to take place in the Chicago metropolitan area (following WrestleMania 2, and WrestleMania 13). Tickets sold out in under two minutes, grossing $2.5 million for the event, making it the highest grossing one-day event at the Allstate Arena. More than 17,155 people from 16 countries and 43 states attended, with millions more watching in more than 90 countries.

WrestleMania 22 was a joint-promotion pay-per-view event, featuring performers from the Raw and SmackDown! brands. The tagline for WrestleMania 22 was "Big Time". The official theme song for the event was "Big Time" by Peter Gabriel. Secondary theme songs included "I Dare You" by Shinedown, "Save Me Sorrow" by Bullets and Octane, and "Baby Hates Me" by Danko Jones.

The main match on the Raw brand was John Cena versus Triple H for the WWE Championship, which Cena won via submission after forcing Triple H to submit to the STFU. The predominant match on the SmackDown! brand was Kurt Angle versus Rey Mysterio versus Randy Orton in a Triple Threat match for the World Heavyweight Championship, which Mysterio won by pinfall after executing a 619 and a West Coast Pop on Orton. Other matches on the undercard featured Shawn Michaels versus Vince McMahon in a No Holds Barred match, The Undertaker versus Mark Henry in a Casket match. and Rob Van Dam versus Shelton Benjamin versus Ric Flair versus Finlay versus Matt Hardy versus Bobby Lashley in a Money in the Bank ladder match

[[Chip 'n Dale]]

CATEGORIES: Disney characters, Fictional animals, Kingdom Hearts characters, Squirrels

Chip 'n' Dale are two fictional, animated chipmunks. They were made by The Walt Disney Company. Their names are a pun from the name "Chippendale" (see Thomas Chippendale). Chip has a black nose, one tooth, and smooth short hair on his head. Dale has a red nose, two teeth, and ruffled hair. They like peanuts and apples. Chip is a reliable character. Dale is an easygoing character.

Chip 'n' Dale first appeared in the cartoon Private Pluto in 1943. They were in 23 animated short films. Usually they got into trouble with either Pluto or Donald Duck.

[[International Justice Network]]

CATEGORIES: Human rights organizations in the United States, 2006 establishments in the United States

The International Justice Network (IJNetwork) leads human rights initiatives around the world by giving legal help and skill to victims of human rights abuses and by making a global network of legal professionals, non-governmental organizations and community-based human rights people to protect and promote human rights and the rule of law.

IJNetwork is the only organization working with prisonerrs in the United States prison, Bagram Theater Internment Facility in Afghanistan.

[[Child sexual abuse]]

CATEGORIES: Child sexual abuse

Child sexual abuse is a kind of child abuse when an adult or someone else with power makes a child do any kind of sexual activities. In most cases, the position of power is important. The child is either unwilling or unable to consent. Children below the age of consent are unable to consent. In some cases activities such as  kissing and hugging may be included.  

Sexual abuse does emotional harm to children. Some of the effects do not show right away, and appear when the child has grown up.  These effects can include depression,  post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, borderline personality disorder, a higher chance of later abuse, and physical injury. Suicide is one of the effects with victims being six times more likely to commit suicide and eight times more likely to attempt suicide over and over again throughout their lives. 

There are different types of offenders. When a child is sexually abused by a family member, it is called "incest," and causes even more serious long-term psychological trauma than abuse by a stranger, especially when the incest is done by a parent. Child sexual abuse may committed by pedophiles (adults who are sexually attracted to children have not begun puberty) or by people who are not pedophiles; there are different reports on the number who are or are not pedophiles.

Child sexual abuse is not rare. Around a quarter of all women and a tenth of all men were sexually abused when they were children. Different places in the world have different rates of child sexual abuse. Disabled children are more likely to be sexually abused than non-disabled children. For most children who are sexually abused, the person who abused them is somebody that they know.  Around a third of child sexual abuse is by a relative of the child, most often fathers, uncles or cousins. Only around a tenth of child sexual abuse cases were abused by strangers, and the rest are other people whom the child knows such as friends of the family, babysitters, or neighbors. Men are the offenders in most child sexual abuse; women are the offenders in around 10% of the cases.

[[Reporters Without Borders]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, Journalism, 1985 establishments in Europe, Human rights organizations in Europe

Reporters Without Borders (RWB) (Reporters Sans Frontières or RSF, Reporteros Sin Fronteras or RSF, Reporter ohne Grenzen or ROG)  is an international non-governmental organization. Its headquarters is located in Paris. The organization was founded in 1985.

[[Kudu]]

CATEGORIES: Bovids

Kudu are a type of African antelope that are found all over Africa, depending on the variety. There are two varieties of Kudu.  The Lesser Kudu and the Greater Kudu. The Lesser Kudu live in Eastern Africa and Kenya and Tanzania. The Greater Kudu live in Eastern and Southern Africa.  

[[Electrode]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

An electrode is an electrical conductor that carries electricity. It is used to touch a non-metal part of a circuit. The two types of electrodes are anode and cathode.

[[1996–97 NHL season]]

The 1996–97 NHL season was the 80th regular season of the National Hockey League. The Stanley Cup winners were the Detroit Red Wings. They swept the Philadelphia Flyers in four games. The Red Wings had not won the Stanley Cup for 42 years.

[[1997–98 NHL season]]

The 1997–98 NHL season was the 81st regular season of the National Hockey League. The Stanley Cup winners were the Detroit Red Wings, who swept the Washington Capitals in four games.

[[Roy Worters]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1950 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Americans players, Pittsburgh Pirates (NHL) players, Sportspeople from Toronto, Vezina Trophy winners, Memorial Cup winners

Roy "Shrimp" Worters (October 19, 1900 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada – November 7, 1957) was a Canadian professional ice hockey Hall of Fame goaltender who played twelve seasons in the National Hockey League for the Pittsburgh Pirates, Montreal Canadiens and New York Americans, and was notable for having 66 shutouts in his career and being, at 5'3" tall, the shortest player ever to play in the NHL.

[[Al Rollins]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 1996 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, New York Rangers players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners, Eastern Hockey League players

Elwin "Al" Ira Rollins (October 9, 1926 – July 27 1996) was a professional Canadian ice hockey goaltender.

Born in Vanguard, Saskatchewan, Rollins played in the NHL for the Toronto Maple Leafs, Chicago Black Hawks and New York Rangers. He played a big role in the  Leafs 1951 Stanley Cup victory. Rollins also won the 1951 Vezina Trophy and the 1954 Hart Memorial Trophy.

Rollins retired in 1962 and decided to become a coach. After retiring, Rollins coached the University of Calgary ice hockey team as well as clubs in Spokane, Salt Lake City, Houston, Tulsa and Phoenix. As a coach, he had a lot of success, including an Allan Cup win with the Spokane Jets in 1970.

His son Jerry Rollins played in the WHA which no longer is in operation.

[[Chuck Rayner]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2002 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, New York Americans players, New York Rangers players

Claude Earl "Chuck" Rayner (August 11, 1920 - October 6, 2002) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. He played nine seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Brooklyn Americans and New York Rangers. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1973.

[[New York Americans]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, Sports in New York City

The New York Americans were a professional ice hockey team, the third expansion team in the history of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the second to play in the United States. The team was part of the NHL from the 1925-26 season until the end of the 1941-42 season. The team was very popular in its first season. This popularity led to a new team, the New York Rangers, being organized for the 1926-26 season. The increasing success of the New York Rangers in the 1930s resulted in a decrease in popularity for the New York Americans. In 1941 the team name was changed to Brooklyn Americans, the name for a borough of New York City. After the 1941-42 season the team decided to stop competing until the end of World War II. When the war ended the NHL decided to not have the team play again. The New York Americans played their home games at Madison Square Garden in New York City.

[[Jesse James (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 movies, American western movies, Movies directed by Henry King

Jesse James (1939) is a western movie created by Henry King and includes Tyrone Power, Henry Fonda, Nancy Kelly, and Randolph Scott. Written by Nunnally Johnson, the movie is based on the life of the famous criminal for which the movie gets its name.

[[Jesse G. James]]

CATEGORIES: Chief executives, People from Long Beach, California, Television personalities from California, 1969 births, Living people

Jesse Gregory James (born April 19, 1969) is an American television personality and CEO of West Coast Choppers. He builds custom-made motorcycles. James is the host of Motorcycle Mania and the former television series Monster Garage on the Discovery Channel. 

[[The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, 2000s western movies, American western movies, Canadian movies, British movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Andrew Dominik

The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford is a 2007 Western movie. It was based on Ron Hansen's 1983 novel of the same name. The movie is directed by Andrew Dominik, with Brad Pitt portraying Jesse James and Casey Affleck as Robert Ford. Filming took place in near Calgary, Edmonton and Winnipeg.

[[James Burke (gangster)]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 1996 deaths, American murderers, American prisoners, Cancer deaths in New York, Criminals from New York City, People who died in prison custody in the United States

James 'Jimmy the Gent' Burke (July 5, 1931 New York City – April 13, 1996 Buffalo, New York), was an Irish-American gangster. He was known for burying people he had murdered. In 2013 the FBI dug up the basement and garden of his old home searching for more human remains. Burke died of cancer in prison in Buffalo.

[[Jesse James (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, American movie actors, Actors from Riverside County, California, People from Palm Springs, California

Jesse James (born September 14, 1989) is an American actor.

[[Jesse James Hollywood]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American kidnappers, American murderers, American prisoners, People from Los Angeles, California

Jesse James Hollywood (born January 28, 1980 in Los Angeles, California) is an American drug dealer and former fugitive. He kidnapped and had someone murder Nicholas Markowitz. 

[[Jesse James (Lucky Luke)]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 books

Jesse James is a Lucky Luke comic written by Goscinny and illustrated by Morris. The first of these French comics was printed in 1969 by Dargaudin 1881.

[[2001–02 NHL season]]

The 2001–02 NHL season was the 85th regular season of the National Hockey League. Thirty teams each played 82 games. The Stanley Cup winners were the Detroit Red Wings, who won the best of seven series 4–1 against the Carolina Hurricanes.

The Dallas Stars moved their home games from Reunion Arena to American Airlines Center.

The NHL honored the victims of 9/11 by having all players wear a patch on their jerseys, as well as a red, white and blue ribbon behind each net. 

For the second time in three seasons, no player reached the 100-point plateau.

[[George Hainsworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1950 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Canadiens players, Sportspeople from Toronto, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners

George Hainsworth (June 26, 1895 in Toronto, Ontario - October 9, 1950) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played for the Montreal Canadiens and Toronto Maple Leafs in the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Tiny Thompson]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1981 deaths, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

Cecil Ralph "Tiny" Thompson (May 31, 1903 – February 9, 1981) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. He played 12 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played 10 seasons with the Boston Bruins and two seasons with the Detroit Red Wings.  He won the Vezina Trophy, given to the NHL's best goaltender, four times. He was added to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1959. He won the Stanley Cup once, in 1929 with Boston. At the start of the 1938–39 season, after ten entire seasons with Boston, he was traded to the Detroit Red Wings, where he played the rest of the season, and played another full one before stopping.   During his time in the NHL, Thompson made 81 shutouts. This is the sixth-most of any goaltender. After stopping playing, he coached some lower-league teams before becoming a famous professional scout. Thompson helped to make common the technique of catching the puck as a method of making a save. He was good at using his stick to play the puck. He was the first goaltender in the NHL to record an assist by passing the puck with his stick to a player on his team.

[[Terry Sawchuk]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1970 deaths, Boston Bruins players, Calder Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Los Angeles Kings players, New York Rangers players, Sportspeople from Winnipeg, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners, American Hockey League players

Terence Gordon Sawchuk (December 28, 1929 in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada–May 31, 1970 in New York City, New York, United States) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played 21 seasons in the National Hockey League for the Detroit Red Wings, Boston Bruins, Toronto Maple Leafs, Los Angeles Kings, and New York Rangers.

[[Patrick Roy]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Colorado Avalanche players, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Granby Bisons players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Jack Adams Award winners, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

Patrick Jacques Roy, (born October 5, 1965, in Sainte-Foy, Quebec, Canada) is a Canadian retired ice hockey goaltender. Roy's professional career was with the Montreal Canadiens and Colorado Avalanche of the National Hockey League, winning two Stanley Cups with each team. In 2004, Roy was selected as the greatest goaltender in NHL history by a group of 41 writers, along with a fan poll. On November 13, 2006, Roy was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame.  He is the only player in NHL history to have won the Conn Smythe Trophy, the award given to the most valuable player in the Stanley Cup playoffs, three times.

Patrick Roy is the current head coach of the Colorado Avalanche, as of May 23, 2013.

[[Scarlett Johansson]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Jewish American musicians, Models from New York City, Singers from New York City, 1984 births, Living people

Scarlett Johansson (born November 22, 1984)  is an American actress, model and singer. She is best known for her roles in the movies The Avengers,  Lost in Translation, Match Point, and The Prestige.

[[Ken Dryden]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Calder Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Cornell University alumni, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, People from Hamilton, Politicians from Ontario, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners, Writers from Ontario, Privy Councillors (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Ontario

Kenneth Wayne "Ken" Dryden, PC OC, (born August 8, 1947) is a Canadian retired NHL goaltender. Born in Hamilton, Ontario, on August 8, 1947, Dryden was originally drafted by the Boston Bruins in 1964. Rather than play in Boston, Dryden decided to pursue a Bachelor of Arts degree at Cornell University, where he also played hockey until his graduation in 1969.

At Cornell, Dryden led his team to the 1967 NCAA championship and three consecutive ECAC tournament championships. Ken Dryden made his NHL debut in 1970 for the Montreal Canadians, and became the backbone of six Stanley Cup winning teams in the 1970s. Dryden played from 1970-79 (excluding the 1973-74 season when he retired to pursue the requirements for his law degree) and was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1983. After retiring from hockey Dryden became an author and business man.  His 1983 book The Game was a commercial and critical success being nominated for a Governor General's Award, the book was about the pressures of being a goalie in the NHL. He then became president of the Toronto Maple Leafs hockey club in 1997.

Dryden was the member of the Canadian Parliament for York Centre from 2004-2011.

[[Charlie Gardiner]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1934 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

[[Shot (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey words

A shot in ice hockey is an attempt by a player to score a goal by hitting the puck with their stick in the direction of the net.

[[Goal (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey words

A goal in ice hockey provides a team with one point. A goal is scored when a puck completely crosses the goal line within the goal net.

[[Hockey puck]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey words

A puck is a disk used in some games serving the same use as a ball in ball games. The best-known use of pucks is in ice hockey, a major international sport.

Hockey pucks are hard disks of rubber that are used to play ice hockey. A standard ice hockey puck is black, 1 inch thick (25.4 mm), 3 inches in diameter (76.2 mm), and weighs between 5.5 and 6 ounces (156-170 g). Pucks are often marked with silkscreened team or league logos on one or both faces.

[[Haines City, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Florida

Haines City is a city in Polk County, Florida, United States. As of 2007, the Economic and Business Research at the University of Florida estimated that the city's population was 18,748. Thus making it the third largest city by population in the county.

[[Frank Brimsek]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1998 deaths, Boston Bruins players, Calder Trophy winners, Chicago Blackhawks players, Eastern Hockey League players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Sportspeople from Minnesota, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners, American ice hockey goaltenders

Francis Charles "Mister Zero" Brimsek (September 26, 1913 – November 11, 1998) was an American professional ice hockey goaltender who played for the Boston Bruins and Chicago Black Hawks in the National Hockey League.

He remained with the Bruins until 1949, and played a final season with the Chicago Black Hawks. He was added into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1966 (the first American to earn HHOF membership) and was inducted into the United States Hockey Hall of Fame in 1973. In 1998, shortly before his death, he was ranked number 67 on The Hockey News' list of the 100 Greatest Hockey Players.

An annual award given to the top high school goaltender in the state of Minnesota is given in Brimsek's honor.

[[Turk Broda]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 1972 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Canadian military personnel of World War II, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Ontario Hockey League players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners

Walter Edward "Turk" Broda (May 15, 1914 - October 17, 1972) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender for the Toronto Maple Leafs. He was born in Brandon, Manitoba on May 15, 1914 to a Polish-Canadian family. He joined the Maple Leafs in 1936.

[[Ed Belfour]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Calder Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, Chicago Blackhawks players, Dallas Stars players, Florida Panthers players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Living people, San Jose Sharks players, Stanley Cup champions, Swedish Hockey League players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners

Edward John Belfour (born April 21, 1965) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender. He played for the Chicago Blackhawks, San Jose Sharks, Dallas Stars, Toronto Maple Leafs, and the Florida Panthers. He has also played for Leksands IF of the Hockeyallsvenskan.

Belfour was born in Carman, Manitoba and grew up playing ice hockey. He played junior hockey for the Winkler Flyers before going to the University of North Dakota where he helped the school win the NCAA championship in the 1986-87 season. The following year, Belfour signed as a free agent with the Chicago Blackhawks (after not being picked in the draft) splitting his time between them and the Saginaw Hawks of the International Hockey League.

[[Foucault]]

Foucault can mean more than one thing:

[[Glove (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey words

There are three types of gloves worn by ice hockey players.  Skaters wear similar gloves on each hand, while goaltenders wear gloves of different types on each hand.

[[German idealism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical movements and positions, Germany

German idealism is a group of theories in philosophy that began in Germany in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries.  It was related to the Enlightenment and the French revolution. German idealists believed that nothing exists without the mind.  This means that while the world exists, our knowledge about the outside world is limited to our experiences. Kant, Hegel, Fichte, and Schelling were the most famous German idealists.

[[Johnny Bower]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2017 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Canadian military personnel of World War II, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Canada, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, New York Rangers players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners

John William "Johnny" Bower (November 8, 1924 – December 26, 2017), nicknamed "The China Wall",  was a Hockey Hall of Fame goaltender.

Bower died of pneumonia on December 26, 2017 in Toronto at the age of 93.

[[2004–05 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in ice hockey, 2005 in ice hockey

The 2004–05 NHL season would have been the 88th regular season of the National Hockey League (NHL). The season was canceled on February 16, 2005 because of an unfinished lockout that began on September 16, 2004. The loss of the 2004–05 season made the NHL the first North American professional sports league to cancel an entire season because of a labour issue. It was also the first time since 1919 that the Stanley Cup was not awarded. In 1919, the championship was canceled due to the ongoing Spanish flu pandemic.

[[Amharic language]]

CATEGORIES: Semitic languages

Amharic (አማርኛ āmariññā) is a Semitic language spoken in North Central Ethiopia by the Amhara.  It is the second most spoken Semitic language after Arabic, and the official language of Ethiopia. Amharic is also the official or working language of several of the states, including Amhara Region and the multi-ethnic Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region.Amharic has been spoken in Ethiopia since the late 12th century in various industries including the legal system, commerce, communications, the military and religion.

Also known as Amarigna, Amarinya, there are 25 million plus speakers of Amharic in various countries of the world, mainly in Ethiopia, & also in Eritrea.

Amharic uses a script which originated from the Ge'ez alphabet. It has 33 basic characters with each having 7 forms or variations for each consonant-vowel combination. Unlike the North Semitic languages such as Arabic, Hebrew or Syrian, the language is written from left to right.

Amharic is considered a Holy Language for the Rastafari religion, whose name itself comes from Amharic words Ras, literally signifying ‘head’, and having a similar meaning to the title ‘Duke’, and Täfäri, the name used by Haile Selassie I prior to his reign as Ethiopian regent and emperor until 1974. The religion uses Amharic in music and as a second language for many of its followers.

[[2004–05 NHL lockout]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in ice hockey, 2005 in ice hockey, National Hockey League, 2004 in North America, 2005 in North America

The 2004–05 NHL lockout resulted in the cancellation of what would have been the 88th season of the National Hockey League (NHL). It was the first time the Stanley Cup was not given out since 1919, and the first time a major professional sports league in North America canceled a complete season because of a labor issue. The lockout lasted 310 days starting September 16 2004, the day after the collective bargaining agreement (CBA) between the NHL and the NHL Players Association (NHLPA) that resolved the 1994–95 lockout expired. The two sides reached an agreement on July 13, 2005, and the lockout ended nine days later on July 22, after both the NHL owners and players accepted the CBA.

[[The Sports Network]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television networks

The Sports Network (commonly known as TSN) is a Canadian English language cable television specialty channel and is Canada's first English language sports television channel. TSN started in 1984, in the second group of Canadian specialty cable channels. TSN is owned by CTV Speciality Television Inc; a division of Bell Media (80%) and ESPN (20%).

[[Glenn Hall]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, American Hockey League players, Calder Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Conn Smythe Trophy winners, Detroit Red Wings players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Living people, St. Louis Blues players, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners, Ontario Hockey League players

Glenn Henry "Mr. Goalie" Hall (born October 3, 1931, in Humboldt, Saskatchewan, Canada) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender. During his National Hockey League career with the Detroit Red Wings, Chicago Black Hawks, and St. Louis Blues, Hall rarely missed a game, winning the Vezina Trophy three times, and the Calder Memorial Trophy. According to hockey lore, Hall threw up before every game and drank a glass of orange juice.

[[Charlie Hodge]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2016 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Deaths from stroke, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Montreal Canadiens players, Oakland Seals players, Sportspeople from Montreal, Stanley Cup champions, Vancouver Canucks players, Vezina Trophy winners

Charles "Charlie" Hodge (July 28, 1933 – April 16, 2016) was a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender. He played for the Montreal Canadiens, Vancouver Canucks, and Oakland Seals in the National Hockey League.

[[California Golden Seals]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, 1966 establishments in California, 1976 disestablishments in the United States, 1970s disestablishments in California

The California Golden Seals were an ice hockey team in the NHL that played from 1966 to 1976. The Golden Seals entered the league at the start of the 1966-67 NHL season as the Oakland Seals. In the 1970-71 season, the team was renamed to the California Golden Seals. Due to poor attendance, the Golden Seals' owners moved to the team to Cleveland, where they became known as the Barons.

[[Tom Barrasso]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, American Hockey League players, American Olympic silver medalists, Buffalo Sabres players, Calder Trophy winners, Carolina Hurricanes players, Living people, Ottawa Senators players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Sportspeople from Boston, Massachusetts, St. Louis Blues players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners, American ice hockey goaltenders

Thomas Patrick Barrasso (born March 31, 1965) is an American retired ice hockey goaltender. He played a career total of 18 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Buffalo Sabres, Pittsburgh Penguins, Ottawa Senators, Carolina Hurricanes, Toronto Maple Leafs and the St. Louis Blues. During his first season, Barrasso won both the Calder Memorial Trophy, for best rookie, as well as the Vezina Trophy for best goaltender. Barrasso also won the Stanley Cup twice, both times with the Penguins, in 1991 and 1992. Barrasso retired in 2003.

[[Atlanta Flames]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct National Hockey League teams, Sports in Atlanta, Georgia, 1972 establishments in the United States, 1980 disestablishments, 20th-century establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), 20th-century disestablishments in Georgia (U.S. state), 1980s disestablishments in the United States

The Atlanta Flames were an ice hockey team in the NHL from Atlanta, Georgia, USA from 1972 to 1980. The team was moved to Calgary, Alberta, Canada for the start of the 1980–81 NHL season and were renamed the Calgary Flames. The team was named after the burning of Atlanta, led by U.S. Army general William Sherman during the American Civil War.

[[Calder Memorial Trophy]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards

The Calder Memorial Trophy is a yearly award given "to the player selected as the most proficient in his first year of competition in the National Hockey League." The award has been awarded 70 times since its beginnings in 1937. The voting is conducted by members of the Professional Hockey Writers Association at the conclusion of each regular season to determine the winner.

[[Afroasiatic languages]]

CATEGORIES: Afroasiatic languages

Afroasiatic (Afro-Asiatic), also called Afrasian or Hamito-Semitic or Semito-Hamitic, is a large language family. They are mainly spoken in Western Asia, North Africa, the Horn of Africa and parts of the Sahel. There are around 300 Afroasiatic languages that are still spoken. About 495 million people speak an Afroasiatic language as their first language. There are six branches of the language family: Berber, Chadic, Cushitic, Egyptian, Omotic and Semitic. The most spoken language is Arabic, a Semitic language. It has around 313 million native speakers.  

[[St. John's, Antigua and Barbuda]]

CATEGORIES: National capitals in North America, Antigua and Barbuda

St. John's is the capital of Antigua and Barbuda, an island nation in the Lesser Antilles. St. John's is located on the island of Antigua.

[[University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Big Ten Conference, Colleges and universities in Illinois, 1867 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Illinois

The University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign (UIUC) is a university in the state of Illinois, United States. It is the oldest and largest campus in the University of Illinois system.

The university has 18 Colleges that offer more than 150 programs of study. It is a selective state schools in the United States. Many of its popular undergraduate and graduate programs are ranked high in the US.

[[Bambi, A Life in the Woods]]

CATEGORIES: Bambi, 1923 books, Children's books

Bambi, A Life in the Woods (Bambi: Eine Lebens­geschichte aus dem Walde) is a novel by Austrian author Felix Salten. It was published in 1923. The story is about a Roe Deer and his life as he grows up.

[[Nicktoons]]

CATEGORIES: Nicktoons

Nicktoons are animated television shows which are produced by and aired on the children's television channel Nickelodeon. Prior to 1991, Nickelodeon aired mostly foreign made animated series. The idea for Nicktoons was formed in 1989 and on Sunday, August 11, 1991, the first Nicktoon, Doug, was aired followed by Rugrats and The Ren & Stimpy Show. This format was repeated every Sunday.

[[Rashidun Empire]]

CATEGORIES: History of the Middle East, History of Egypt, Caliphates, 632 establishments, 661 disestablishments, 7th-century establishments in Africa, 7th-century establishments in Asia, Disestablishments in Africa, 7th century disestablishments in Asia

Rashidun Empire, Islamic Empire (الامبراطورية الاسلامية)  or Rashidun Caliphate (الخلافة الراشدية) are the terms used to describe the empire that was controlled by the first four successors of Muhammad (the "Rightly Guided" caliphs). The empire was founded after Muhammad's death in 632 and lasted until 'Ali's death in 661. At its height, the power of the Rashidun Caliphs extended throughout North Africa, the Arabian Peninsula, and the Iranian highlands.

[[United States Secretary of the Treasury]]

CATEGORIES: United States Secretaries of the Treasury, 1789 establishments in the United States

The United States Secretary of the Treasury is the head of the United States Department of the Treasury. The Secretary is concerned with finance and monetary matters, and, until 2003, some issues of national security and defense.  This position in the Federal Government of the United States is similar to the finance ministers of other nations.

From the U.S. Department of the Treasury website https://web.archive.org/web/20101119160912/http://www.treasury.gov/education/duties/treas/sec-treasury.shtml:

[[African penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins

The African penguin (Spheniscus demersus), also known as the Black-footed or Jackass penguin, is found on the south-western coast of Africa. It lives in colonies on 24 islands between Namibia and Algoa Bay, near Port Elizabeth, South Africa. The largest colony on Dyer Island, near Kleinbaai. Two colonies were established by penguins in the 1980s on the mainland near Cape Town at Boulders Beach near Simon's Town and Stony Point in Betty's Bay. Mainland colonies probably only became possible in recent times due to fewer predators, although the Betty's Bay colony has been attacked by  leopards. The only other mainland colony is in Namibia, but it is not known when this was established.

The African penguin may live up to 20 years. It grows up to 65 cm tall and weighs up to 3 kg. They eat fish, crabs and squids. The breeding time is 38 days.

Boulders Beach is a tourist attraction, for the beach, swimming and the penguins. The penguins will allow people to approach them as close as a meter (three ft). 

The closest relatives of the African Penguins are the Humboldt and Magellanic penguins found in southern South America and the Galápagos Penguin found in the Pacific Ocean near the equator.

[[United States Department of the Treasury]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of the Treasury, 1789 establishments in the United States

The United States Department of the Treasury is a Cabinet department and the treasury of the United States government. It was established by an Act of Congress in 1789 to manage government revenue.  The first Secretary of the Treasury was Alexander Hamilton. He almost single-handedly worked out the nation's early financial system, and for several years was a major presence in Washington's administration as well.  His statue still stands outside the Treasury building.

[[Loose (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 albums, Nelly Furtado, Pop albums

Loose is the third studio album by Canadian singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado. It was released on 9 June 2006. It is her most successful album, selling more than 8 million copies worldwide. The hip-hop producer Timbaland helped Furtado recording this CD. It featured many hits including the U.S. number-one singles  "Promiscuous" and "Say It Right" and the European hit "All Good Things (Come to an End)".

[[All Good Things (Come to an End)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, Nelly Furtado, Pop ballads

"All Good Things (Come to an End)" is a pop song by the Canadian singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado. It was released at the end of 2006. It hit number-one in the European charts.

[[Puklice]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in the Czech Republic

Puklice is a village in the Jihlava District, Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. About 760 people live there. It covers 10,92 km². Puklice was first documented in 1318.

[[Gump Worsley]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2007 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Calder Trophy winners, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Quebec, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Minnesota North Stars players, Montreal Canadiens players, New York Rangers players, Sportspeople from Montreal, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

Lorne John "Gump" Worsley (May 14, 1929 in Montreal, Quebec – January 26, 2007 in Beloeil, Quebec) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. Born and raised in Montreal, he was given his nickname due to friends deciding he looked like comic-strip character Andy Gump. He died of a heart attack.

[[Michel Larocque]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 1992 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Montreal Canadiens players, Philadelphia Flyers players, St. Louis Blues players, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners, American Hockey League players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Ontario Hockey League players

Michel 'Bunny' Larocque (April 6, 1952 - July 29, 1992) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played for the Montreal Canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs, Philadelphia Flyers, and St. Louis Blues in the National Hockey League.

[[Lorne Chabot]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1946 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Deaths from nephritis, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Montreal Canadiens players, Montreal Maroons players, New York Americans players, New York Rangers players, People from Montreal, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners

Lorne "Chabotsky" Chabot (October 5, 1900 in Montreal, Quebec - October 10 1946) was a Canadian ice hockey goaltender. Lorne played in the National Hockey League from 1926 to 1937.  During this time, he played for the New York Rangers, Toronto Maple Leafs, Montreal Canadiens, Chicago Black Hawks, Montreal Maroons, and New York Americans.  Lorne won the 1935 Vezina Trophy for the being the league's best goaltender. He was the first hockey player to appear on the cover of Time Magazine.

[[Normie Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1988 deaths, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Detroit Falcons players, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Maroons players, Sportspeople from Toronto, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

Norman "Normie" Smith (March 18, 1908 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada – February 2, 1988) was a Vezina-winning goaltender for the Detroit Red Wings. Smith did not let in a goal by the Montreal Maroons in the NHL's longest game, a 176-minute, 30-second game, on way to a Stanley Cup championship in 1936. After suffering an arm injury, his quality of play dropped in 1937–38 and the Red Wings finished last. During a game in 1939, he did not show up, causing problems with Jack Adams. Normie Smith retired rather than report to the minor leagues. He returned to play briefly with the Detroit Red Wings when World War II left a vacuum of players in the NHL.

[[Dave Kerr]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1978 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Montreal Maroons players, New York Americans players, New York Rangers players, Sportspeople from Toronto, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

David Alexander Kerr (January 11, 1910 Toronto, Ontario - May 11, 1978) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played 427 games in total, 327 of them with the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[WWE United States Championship]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 establishments in the United States, World Wrestling Entertainment championships, 1975 establishments

The WWE United States Championship is a professional wrestling championship in World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was originally a National Wrestling Alliance and World Championship Wrestling title. It has mostly been the exclusive secondary championship of WWE's weekly TV show, SmackDown Live since April 2017 when the champion at the time Kevin Owens was moved to the show in the 2017 WWE Superstar Shake-up.

[[Johnny Mowers]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 1995 deaths, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

Johnny Mowers (October 29, 1916 in Niagara Falls, Ontario, Canada - December 7, 1995) was an ice hockey goaltender who played for the Detroit Red Wings, winning the Vezina Trophy in 1943. Born in Niagara Falls, Ontario, Mowers played goal for the Red Wings on their way to the Stanley Cup in 1943, shutting out the Boston Bruins twice in the four games.

[[Harry Lumley]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 1998 deaths, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, New York Rangers players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vezina Trophy winners

Harry "Apple Cheeks" Lumley (November 11, 1926 – September 13, 1998) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender in the National Hockey League.

Born in Owen Sound, Ontario, Canada, Lumley starred for several years with the Owen Sound Mercurys and later with the Owen Sound Orphans and then the Barrie Colts. He also played with the Indianapolis Capitals of the American Hockey League, a minor league team of the Detroit Red Wings. Lumley made his professional start in the National Hockey League, however, with the New York Rangers in the 1943–44 season, when he was loaned to the Rangers for a single game. He was the youngest goaltender to play in the NHL, as he was 17 years old.

[[Denis DeJordy]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Montreal Canadiens players, Stanley Cup champions, Ontario Hockey League players

Denis DeJordy (born November 12, 1938, in Saint-Hyacinthe, Quebec, Canada), is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender.  He played goal for four NHL teams, most notably the Chicago Black Hawks.

[[Carl von Clausewitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1782 births, 1831 deaths, German generals, German writers, People from Prussia, People from Saxony-Anhalt

Carl Philipp Gottlieb von Clausewitz (ˈklaʊzəvɪts) (July 1, 1782 in Burg bei Magdeburg  – November 16, 1831 in Breslau) was a Prussian general who fought in the Napoleonic Wars. He joined the Russian Army to fight against the French invasion of Russia. Later, he wrote about war and the military.

He wrote the book On War, in which he said that "War is the continuation of politics by other means." In his book, On War, Clausewitz wrote how to win a war, how to build an army, and what war is.  He did not think war was an art or a science.  Instead, war was about people, money, and land.

[[Rogatien Vachon]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Boston Bruins players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Detroit Red Wings players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

Rogatien "Rogie"  Vachon (b. September 8, 1945 in Palmarolle, Quebec) was a French-Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played for the Montreal Canadiens, Los Angeles Kings, Detroit Red Wings, and Boston Bruins in the National Hockey League.

Vachon shared the 1968 Vezina Trophy with Gump Worsley while with the Canadiens, along with three Stanley Cups. Vachon was traded to the Kings in 1971, where he achieved his greatest individual success.  He was added to the NHL's second all-star team in 1975 and 1977. 

[[1927–28 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 in North America, 1928 in North America

The 1927–28 NHL season was the eleventh season of the National Hockey League. Ten teams played 44 games each. The New York Rangers won the Stanley Cup beating the Montreal Maroons becoming the first United States based team since the start of the NHL to win it and first since the Seattle Metropolitans won in 1917. This season saw the reintroduction of the O'Brien Trophy, which used to go to the NHL league champion. It was originally retired in favour of the Prince of Wales Trophy. The reintroduced O'Brien Trophy went to the winner of the Canadian Division while the Prince of Wales Trophy went to the winner of the American division.

[[Polk County, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Florida counties, 1861 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Florida

Polk County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. As of 2000, 483,924 people lived there. The U.S. Census Bureau 2006 estimate for the county is 561,606. The county seat is Bartow, Florida6. Its largest city is Lakeland.  The center of population of Florida is in the town of Lake Wales.

[[1928–29 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 in North America, 1928 in North America

The 1928–29 NHL season was the twelfth season of the National Hockey League. Ten teams played 44 games each. This was the first Stanley Cup playoffs ever that saw two United States based teams compete for the cup. The Boston Bruins won over the New York Rangers two games to none in a best-of-three final.

[[Georgetown University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities, Big East Conference, Colleges and universities in the District of Columbia, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, 18th-century establishments in Washington, D.C., 1789 establishments in the United States

Georgetown University is a Catholic university in Washington, D.C.  It was started in 1789 by the Jesuit priest John Carroll. It is the oldest Catholic university in the United States of America. In the 19th century, the university sold more than 300 slaves in order to pay for its expansion.

[[DC]]

DC can mean many things:

[[Jack Adams Award]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey coaches, National Hockey League trophies and awards

The Jack Adams Award is awarded annually to the National Hockey League coach "adjudged to have contributed the most to his team's success." It has been awarded 33 times to 28 different winners. The winner is selected by a poll of the National Hockey League Broadcasters Association at the end of the regular season. Many coaches have won the award numerous times. Pat Burns has won three times, the most of any coach.

[[Bagpipes]]

CATEGORIES: Woodwind instruments

The bagpipes are a musical instrument. They are sometimes just called "pipes". They have a bag that holds air. The player keeps the bag full of air by blowing into it with a tube or pumping it with a bellows. To make music, the bag is pressed and the air comes out through a kind of flute or "chanter". There are usually one or more other tubes coming from the bag that make sounds whenever the bag is squeezed, called "drones". Each drone normally plays a different note, and stays on the same note the whole time it is playing, to play a harmony with the "chanter". The sounds are made by a single or, more commonly, double reed which vibrates when air is blown over it.

Scotland is traditionally linked to the bagpipes, and many pipe tunes come from there. Many, many other places, however, also have different types of bagpipes: over all of Europe, some of North Africa, and into the Middle East such as the Ottoman Empire.

The Scottish pipes, the Great Pipe, or piob-mohr, first had only one drone pipe. The second pipe was added in the mid 1500s and the third pipe was added in the 1700s.

[[Entertainment Software Rating Board]]

CATEGORIES: Video game ratings

The Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) is an organization that rates video games. Rating is voluntary. Game publishers do not have to submit their games for ratings. There are seven ratings: E (Everyone), E10+ (Everyone 10+), T (Teen), M (Mature 17+), AO (Adults Only), and RP (Rating Pending). Some retailers make people show identification to prove their age if they want to buy M-rated games. Many retailers will not buy and sell AO games so it is very hard for gamers to find AO-rated games.'''

On the back of each game's box, the ESRB also rates elements of the game. The back of ''Super Princess Peach'' has the words "comic mischief" on it to tell parents that it contains comic mischief.

[[2005-06 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in ice hockey, 2006 in ice hockey, National Hockey League seasons

The 2005–06 NHL season was the 88th season of the National Hockey League. The 2006 Stanley Cup playoffs began on April 21 2006 and ended on June 19. The Carolina Hurricanes defeated the Edmonton Oilers. This was the first Stanley Cup for the Hurricanes.

The 2004–05 season was cancelled due to a labour dispute with the NHL Players Association. The dispute was over the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) between the league and its players.

[[1929–30 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 in North America, 1930s in North America

The 1929–30 NHL season was the thirteenth season of the National Hockey League. Ten teams played 44 games each. The Montreal Canadiens upset the heavily favoured Boston Bruins two games to none for the Stanley Cup.

[[1930–31 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 in North America, 1930

The 1930–31 NHL season was the fourteenth season of the National Hockey League. Ten teams played 44 games each. The Montreal Canadiens beat the Chicago Black Hawks three games to two in a best-of-five Stanley Cup final for their second Cup win in a row.

Art Ross bitterly complained about the Stanley Cup final setup. His team had been beaten in two games in a row by the Montreal Canadiens in 1929–30. As a result, the Board of Governors decided to make the final a best of five series.

[[National Hockey League awards]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League trophies and awards

The National Hockey League presents lots of annual awards and trophies to recognize its teams and players.  The oldest, and most notable, is the Stanley Cup.  First awarded in 1893, the Stanley Cup is awarded to the NHL's playoff champion.  The Stanley Cup is the third trophy to be used as the league's championship, as for the first nine years of the NHL's existence, it remained a multiple league challenge cup.

[[Pizmonim]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism, Music genres

Pizmonim (פזמונים, singular pizmon) are Jewish songs and melodies sung to praise God.

[[Luca Marenzio]]

CATEGORIES: 1550s births, 1599 deaths, Renaissance composers, Italian composers

Luca Marenzio  (born Coccaglio, near Brescia, Italy, 18 October? 1553?;  died Rome, 22 August  1599) was an Italian composer who lived in the late Renaissance. He was one of the best known composers of madrigals.

[[Nicholas Yonge]]

CATEGORIES: 1560s births, 1619 deaths, English singers

Nicholas Yonge (born about 1560; buried October 23, 1619) was an English singer and publisher (his name is an old spelling of the word "Young" and pronounced the same way).  He is most famous for publishing a collection of music called Musica transalpina in (1588).

Music publishing was quite a new thing in those days. Musica transalpina was a collection of Italian madrigals.  The Italian words of the madrigals were also translated into English.  Musica transalpina had 57 separate pieces by 18 Italian composers, including Alfonso Ferrabosco and Luca Marenzio.  Ferrabosco was living in England at the time.

The publication of this book had a huge influence on music in England.  It made madrigals very popular in England and during the next twenty years composers such as Thomas Morley, John Wilbye and Thomas Weelkes composed a large number of English madrigals.

In 1597 Yonge published a second book of Musica transalpina which was also very influential.

The title Musica transalpina  means: "music from across the Alps" because the music came from Italy which was the other side of the Alps.

[[Complex]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

[[Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 in American television, The Simpsons (season 1) episodes, Christmas television episodes, 1980s television episodes

"Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire" is the series premiere (the first episode) of The Simpsons. It was first shown on television on December 17, 1989. It is the first time the Simpson family is seen on half-hour (30 minutes) television. 

In the episode, Bart Simpson gets a tattoo without permission from his mother Marge. Marge uses all of the money for Christmas to get the tattoo off. Homer's boss will not give him a bonus for Christmas. Homer gets a job to be Santa Claus at a shopping mall, but he does not get enough money. He loses more money when he loses a bet at dog racing. Santa's Little Helper, the dog they betted on, did bad at the race and is abandoned by his owner. Homer and Bart keep him as a pet for the family.

Mimi Pond wrote the dialogue of the episode. David Silverman is the director of the episode. "Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire" was nominated for two Emmy Awards in 1990. Critics of television gave good reviews for the episode. About 13.4 million people watched the episode when it was first shown on television. The Simpsons was first going to start with the episode "Some Enchanted Evening". The animation of that episode was not good enough at that time to be the first episode. 

[[Treehouse of Horror (The Simpsons episode)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 television episodes, The Simpsons (season 2) episodes, Treehouse of Horror

Treehouse of Horror is the third episode in season 2 of The Simpsons. It was first shown on October 25, 1990. It is the first-ever "Treehouse of Horror" episode and has since been followed by a yearly "Treehouse of Horror" episode.  This episode features three stories. The last one is the famous The Raven by Edgar Allan Poe.

[[WWE Divas Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment championships, 2008 establishments, 2016 disestablishments

The WWE Divas Championship was a championship in WWE competed for by women, called Divas by WWE. It was established in 2008 and Michelle McCool was the first champion. It was deactivated in 2016 in favor of the new WWE Women's Championship. Charlotte was the final champion.

[[Alain Vigneault]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Jack Adams Award winners, Living people

Alain Vigneault (b. May 14, 1961) formerly coached the Montreal Canadiens, Vancouver Canucks, and New York Rangers. He is currently coach of the Philadelphia Flyers.

[[Lindy Ruff]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Canadian ice hockey defencemen, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Jack Adams Award winners, Lethbridge Broncos players, Living people, New York Rangers players, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players

Lindy Ruff is the current head coach of the New Jersey Devils. He is currently the longest-serving coach in the NHL, being Buffalo's coach since 1997.

[[John Tortorella]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Ice hockey coaches, Jack Adams Award winners, Living people, Sportspeople from Boston, Massachusetts, Stanley Cup champions

John Robert Tortorella (born June 24, 1958 in Boston, Massachusetts) is an American ice hockey coach currently with the Columbus Blue Jackets. 

He coached the Tampa Bay Lightning and won both the Jack Adams Award and the Stanley Cup, with the Lightning, in 2004. He coached the New York Rangers from February 23, 2009 to May 29, 2013. He was fired by the Rangers after a disappointing playoff run. He was hired to coach for the Vancouver Canucks for only one season before being relieved of duty after failing to qualify for the playoffs. He is currently with the Columbus Blue Jackets as their coach. 

[[Charity]]

Charity could mean:

Places:

In entertainment:

[[Horseradish]]

CATEGORIES: Root vegetables, Medicinal plants, Spices, Brassicaceae, Condiments

Horseradish (Armoracia rusticana) is a perennial plant of the Brassicaceae family. The plant is probably native to southeastern Europe and western Asia.  It grows up to 1.5 metres (5 feet) tall, and is usually grown for its large, white, tapered root.

The unbroken horseradish root has very little smell. When cut or grated, however, enzymes from the now-broken plant cells causes changes. The enzymes break down sinigrin to produce allyl isothiocyanate (mustard oil). This irritates the mucous membranes of the sinuses and eyes. Once exposed to air (by grating) or heat, it needs to be mixed with vinegar. Otherwise it becomes unpleasantly bitter-tasting.

[[Geographic Names Information System]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the United States, Geocodes, United States Department of the Interior

The Geographic Names Information System (GNIS) contains name and location information about more than two million physical and cultural features in the United States of America and its Territories. GNIS was developed by the United States Geological Survey and the United States Board on Geographic Names (BGN) to promote the standardization of feature names.

[[12 Rounds]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands

12 Rounds is a British rock band that was started by Atticus Ross and singer Claudia Sarne.

[[Emigration]]

CATEGORIES: Countries, Migration

Emigration is leaving one's country or area to go live in another. Emigration (leaving) from one country is usually followed by Immigration (coming into) into another. The difference between the two is the perspective (or point of view) of which country a person is leaving and which country they are going to. 

The urge to migrate is a part of human nature. People migrated well before we had written history. Emigrants from a place are its diaspora.

People who move around all the time are called nomads.

[[Brassicales]]

CATEGORIES: Brassicales

The Brassicales are an order of flowering plants. They are in the eurosids II group of dicotyledons under the APG II system.

[[World Economic Forum]]

CATEGORIES: Economics organizations, 1971 establishments in Europe, Geneva

The World Economic Forum is a foundation based in Geneva, Switzerland. It is known for holding a yearly meeting in Davos in the mountains of Graubünden. Important leaders from politics (such as presidents) and the economy are given an opportunity to talk about subjects that concern everyone. Very often, these subjects concern globalization. Usually the Swiss army helps secure the area.

These meetings are often critizised because they are seen as a vehicle to further capitalism in the world by anti-capitalists and supporters of antiglobalization. There is an organisation called Public Eye On Davos that organizes public information during the meeting. During the meetings, which invole the G8, access to the village of Davos is heavily controlled. A small demonstration happens every year in Davos during these meetings. This is one of the rights given by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Bigger demonstrations are normally in the other cities in Switzerland during the World Economic Forum.

[[Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija]]

CATEGORIES: Serbia, Kosovo, Autonomous areas, Former countries in Europe, Geography of Serbia, Territorial disputes

The Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija, or in Аутономна Покрајина Косово и Метохиja; in Albanian: Krahina Autonome e Kosovës dhe Metohisë, commonly known as Kosovo and Metohija, or in Косово и Метохија; in Albanian: Kosova dhe Metohija, or Kosovo, or in Косово; in Albanian: Kosova, for short, and abbreviated as KiM KiM or Kosmet from ''Kosovo and Metohija''; Космет means the area of Kosovo as the Constitution of Serbia says. The land is disputed between Serbia and the self-declared Republic of Kosovo, which currently has actual control over the land. Before the Republic of Kosovo, the area was controlled by Serbia (while Serbia was part of Yugoslavia) between 1912 and 1999.

The Constitution and laws of Serbia say that Kosovo in the southern part of Serbia and covers the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. The capital is Pristina. In the past, Kosovo was an autonomous province of Serbia when Serbia was part of Socialist Yugoslavia (1946–1990). When Socialist Yugoslavia ended in 1990, Kosovo became part of Serbia until the Kosovo War (1998–99). After the war, it became a United Nations (UN) controlled area due to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 but legally it was still part of Serbia. In that time, the United Nations Interim Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) governed. In 2008, some Albanian politicians said that Kosovo would be its own country. 98 member countries of the United Nations agree, but Serbia does not. It still thinks that Kosovo is part of it.

In 1990, when Kosovo was part of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milošević's Anti-bureaucratic Revolution happened. This meant that Kosovo's government became less powerful and that Serbia had more control, like in 1971–74. That year, Kosovo's Albanian majority and also the Republic of Albania agreed with the declaration of independence of the Republic of Kosova. Because of the Kosovo War in 1999, the Serbian army was kicked out of Kosovo.

In February 2008, the Republic of Kosovo declared independence. Serbia does not agree, but in the Brussels agreement of 2013, it got rid of the Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija government.. Kosovo's independence is currently recognized by 95 UN member states. In 2013, the Serbian government said it was getting rid of the Serb minority councils it had made in northern Kosovo, in order to allow the Kosovo Serb minority to become more like the general population of Kosovo.

[[Assembly of Kosovo]]

CATEGORIES: Kosovo, National legislatures

The Assembly of Kosovo (Скупштина Косова, Skupština Kosova) is an institution linked to governing the territory of Kosovo. The Assembly was created by the United Nations to provide for a democratic form of government.

[[French Grand Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix

The French Grand Prix (''1906-1967: Grand Prix de l'ACF, 1968-2008: Grand Prix de France'') was a race held as part of Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile's (FIA) annual Formula One (F1) automobile racing championships.

Grand Prix motor racing started in France. The French Grand Prix was open to international competition. It is the oldest Grand Prix race. It was first run on 26 June 1906,  under the Automobile Club de France in Sarthe. The first race had a starting field of 32 automobiles.

[[Boogie-woogie]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

Boogie-woogie is a solo piano-style that became very popular in the late 1930s and early 1940s. Boogie-woogie was developed in the southern parts of the USA. Boogie-woogie is connected with dancing. 

It has a regular bass figure, an ostinato and simple examples of shifts of level.

[[Country blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

Country blues (also folk blues, rural blues, backwoods blues, or downhome blues) is all the acoustic, guitar forms of the blues. 

[[Electric blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

The electric blues is a type of blues music made different by the amplification of the guitar, the bass guitar, and/or the harmonica.

[[Jump blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

Jump blues is a type of up-tempo blues music. It has a jazzy, saxophone (or brass instruments) sound, driving rhythms and shouted vocals.

[[List of Formula One Grands Prix]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One Grands Prix

The following is a complete list of Grands Prix which have been a part of the FIA Formula 1 World Championship since it started in 1950.

At the end of the 2019 season, 1018 World Championship Grands Prix will have been held including the Indy 500 which was a part of the World Championship from 1950 until 1960.

Major auto racing events are usually named Grands Prix, a tradition dating back to the first decade of the 20th Century and the Grand Prix motor racing of the 1920s and 1930s.

[[Soul blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

Soul blues is a style of blues music developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Singers and musicians who grew up listening to the electric blues of Muddy Waters, Bo Diddley, Jimmy Reed, Elmore James etc. and soul singers such as Sam Cooke, Ray Charles and Otis Redding, and gospel music wanted to connect their favorite music.

[[Chicago blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music, Music in Chicago

The Chicago blues is a form of blues music that developed in Chicago, Illinois by adding electrically amplified guitar, drums, piano, bass guitar and sometimes saxophone to Delta blues.   

[[Louisiana blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

The Louisiana blues is a type of blues music with slow rhythm which makes the sound dark and tense. 

[[New Orleans blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

New Orleans blues is a mix of Dixieland music and rhythms from Caribbean music. It is played on the piano or a horn instrument. The music is upbeat despite the blues-based content of many of the song choices.

[[St. Louis blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

For the hockey team, see St. Louis Blues.

The St. Louis blues is a type of blues music.  It is played on the piano and is closely related to the jump blues, ragtime and piano blues. 

[[Texas blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

Texas Blues is a type of blues. Musicians such as Stevie Ray Vaughan played it by using various types of guitar sounds like southern slide guitar and different melodies of blues and jazz. 

[[List of blues genres]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music, Music-related lists

[[British blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

The British blues is a local type of blues music in Great Britain. It started in the late 1950s and had its climax in the middle of the 1960s. 

[[East Coast blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

East Coast blues is a type of Blues music which needs fast fingerpicking and ragtime style.

[[Hexapoda]]

CATEGORIES: Arthropods

The subphylum Hexapoda, meaning "six legs", is the largest  group of arthropods. It includes the insects and three much smaller groups of arthropods without wings: Collembola, Protura, and Diplura. 

All of these were once called insects. It seems they are polyphyletic, and evolved independently from each other. In other words, hexapoda is composed from the insects and the Entognatha. Hexapods are so called because they have a thorax with three pairs of legs. Most other arthropods have more than three pairs of legs.

Alternatively, the Hexapoda could be eliminated because they are polyphyletic, the Insecta promoted to sub-phylum, and the minor groups become incertae sedis. This is a Latin term meaning "of uncertain placement" and used for a taxonomic group when its broader relationships are unknown or undefined.

[[Laurasiatheria]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals

Laurasiatheria is a large group of placental mammals. The name comes from the area where advanced mammals evolved. This was on the northern supercontinent of Laurasia, roughly corresponding to Eurasia today plus North America. When Pangaea broke up, it split first into Laurasia in the north and Gondwana in the south.

Members of the group include shrews, hedgehogs, pangolins, bats, whales, most hoofed mammals, and carnivorans, and others.

The Laurasiatheria is defined by DNA sequence analysis. The group does not share any obvious anatomical features. It includes these living orders:

There are various ideas as to how these groups are related to each other, and no tree of descent is agreed by experts so far.

[[Mysticeti]]

CATEGORIES: Baleen whales

The Mysticeti  are one of the two suborders of the Cetacea. They are often called baleen whales, or 'whalebone whales' or 'great whales'.

Baleen whales have baleen plates made of keratin. 

The difference is connected with feeding. Baleen whales strain plankton out of the water, whereas the Odontoceti (toothed whales) eat larger prey.

The suborder contains four families and fourteen species.

[[Erinaceidae]]

CATEGORIES: Eulipotyphla

Erinaceidae is a family in the mammalian order Eulipotyphla. It contains the well-known hedgehogs of Eurasia and Africa and the moonrats of South-east Asia. This family was once in the order Insectivora, but that  order is not used anymore.

[[Macropus]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods, Marsupials of Australia

Macropus is a marsupial genus that belongs to the family Macropodidae. It has 14 species. The genus includes all land kangaroos, wallaroos and several species of wallaby.

[[Soricomorpha]]

CATEGORIES: Soricomorphs

The Soricomorpha ("shrew-form") was a proposed biological group in the class of mammals. It includes all the shrews, solenodons and moles. It is divided into 4 families, one extinct. The other three families are the shrews, solenodons and moles. This followed the discovery, from sequence analysis, that the old order Insectivora was polyphyletic. That meant it was not a single clade.

The proposal was discarded when it was discovered that a larger grouping was monophyletic, and formed an natural clade of insectivores. That is the new order Eulipotyphla.

[[Peter and the Wolf]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Sergei Prokofiev

Peter and the Wolf is a composition by Sergei Prokofiev. It was written in 1936 after his return to Russia, then part of the Soviet Union. It is a children's story. Prokofiev got the idea from Natalya Sats, who led the Moscow State Musical Theater for Children. The idea was to introduce children to the different musical instruments in the orchestra. For this reason, each character in the story has a particular instrument and a musical theme:

(The hunters' theme is actually introduced by the woodwinds)

In addition, there is a narrator telling the story. 

In 1946, Walt Disney produced an animated version of Peter and the Wolf. There are some differences to the original work, for example the animals are given names. It was released on video tape in the 1990s. 

[[Israel national football team]]

CATEGORIES: National football teams, Football in Israel

The Israel National Football Team is the national football team of Israel and is controlled by the Israel Football Association. 

They Play in Teddy Stadium in Jerusalem, Sammy Ofer Stadium in Haifa, and in Bloomfield Stadium in Tel Aviv. Israel had one World Cup appearance in 1970.

[[Metroid]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 video games, Game Boy Advance games, Metroid, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Nintendo Research & Development 1 games, Virtual Console games, Famicom Disk System games

Metroid is an action-adventure video game made by Nintendo. It was first released in Japan on the Famicom Disk System on August 6, 1986. In 1987 and 1988, it was released in Europe and North America on the Nintendo Entertainment System. Years later, it was released for the Wii.

Metroid is the first game in the Metroid series and stars the character Samus Aran. She later appears in all of the later games.

[[İzmir]]

CATEGORIES: İzmir

İzmir is a city in the west of Turkey. It has one of the biggest seaports in the Aegean Sea region and all of Turkey. İzmir is a popular destination for tourists, who come for beaches and cultural tours. It has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Köppen climate classification). Izmir is the third largest city in Turkey.

This is an ancient city; many scholars think Homer was born in Smyrna. An earthquake destroyed it in 187 AD, and it was rebuilt. The Greek name for this formerly Greek city is Smyrna. That name was also used in English until the 20th century. About 30 km (20 miles) south of İzmir, there is an ancient Greek city named Ephesus.

İzmir was a candidate for Expo 2015. However, Milan had more support, so İzmir lost.

[[Antalya]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Antalya is a city in southern Turkey. The city is in the Mediterranean Region and along the coast of Mediterranean Sea. 2.158.265 people live there. Antalya is the most important tourism destination in Turkey and one of the best in Mediterranean. The city created a good image and its name started to be known to tourists. Every year mostly British, Russian, and German tourists come to city for beautiful beaches and the ancient destinations.

[[Hatay]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Hatay is a city in the southern part of Turkey, on the Mediterranean coast. Hatay is bordered by Syria on the south and east.

In ancient times the city was called Antioch. It joined Turkey in 1939.  From 1938 to 1939, the city was independent as Hatay State.

[[Mural]]

CATEGORIES: Murals

A mural is a painting on a wall or a ceiling. Murals are usually big. They may be in public places, such as the outside of a building, or indoors. 

[[Tunceli Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Turkey

Tunceli is a province in the eastern part of Turkey. The province was named Dersim before 1936. The word Dersim means silver door in the Kurdish language. Its capital is also called Tunceli. 

Tunceli has one of the highest literacy rates in Turkey.April 2009 In 1979 and 1980, Tunceli has the highest number of students entering to universities.April 2009  However, after the high schools were converted to military bases, Tunceli could not get this achievement again.April 2009

[[List of World Heavyweight Champions (WWE)]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of professional wrestlers, World Wrestling Entertainment championships

This is the title history of the World Heavyweight Championship. The title was introduced in 2002 when WWE bought out World Championship Wrestling WCW. It was retired and unified on December 16, 2013 when Randy Orton defeated John Cena at TLC: Tables, Ladders & Chairs.

[[Deniz Baykal]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey, Columbia University alumni

Deniz Baykal (born 20 July 1938) is a Turkish politician and academician. He was the leader of the Republican People's Party (CHP) and the leader of the Main Opposition in Turkey. He has been the Member of Parliament for Antalya since 2002.

He quit his academic career and was elected as the Member of Parliament from the Republican People's Party in 1973. He served as the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, Energy and Foreign Affairs in various times.

He resigned as leader of the Republican People's Party on May 10, 2010.

Because he is the oldest MP, he became the interim Speaker of the Parliament until the election of the permanent speaker. He became CHP's nominee for the election.

[[Deniz Gezmiş]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 1972 deaths, Turkish people, Political activists, People from Ankara

Deniz Gezmiş (February 27, 1947  – May 6, 1972) was a political activist in the late 1960s. He is one of the founders of the Marxist-Leninist organization Türkiye Halk Kurtuluş Ordusu, in English Turkey People's Liberation Army.

Gezmis was captured by the Turkish government and the trial period started. At the end of his trial, Gezmiş was sentenced to death. He was killed on May 6, 1973, by the Turkish government. However, many people years later think Deniz Gezmis and his friends are heroes, and that they are threats to the community.

Books about Deniz Gezmis's life have been written. The latest book about his life is Darağacında Üç Fidan. It was published in Turkish language in 2008.

[[Washington Monument]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C., George Washington, National Mall, 1848 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Washington, D.C.

The Washington Monument is a large, tall, white obelisk near the west part of the National Mall in Washington, D.C. It was built to remember George Washington, who was the first President of the United States. It is the tallest stone structure in the world, and is 555 feet 5⅛ inches (169.294 m) tall. The monument is made of marble, granite, and sandstone. The monument was started in 1848 but was not finished until 1884. This was because the American Civil War started soon after construction started. Construction continued after the war ended, but the type of sandstone was changed. Because of this, about part of the way up, you can see a change in color of the monument. The monument opened on February 21, 1885 after 19 years total of construction. 

Plans of building the monument began even before Washington was elected president.

Visitors to Washington, D.C., can tour the inside of the Washington Monument. There is an elevator which takes people to the top. From the top, it is possible to see the National Mall, the White House, the U.S. Capitol, and the Lincoln Memorial.

[[Avrupa Yakası]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish television series

Avrupa Yakası (English: European Coast) is a popular sitcom which broadcasts on Turkish TV. The plot is Nisantasi, İstanbul. The writer of the series is Gülse Birsel also plays the role as Aslı. As today it reached six season and still counting, airing on every Wednesday at 20.00 (GMT +2) on ATV.

[[Büyükada]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Turkey

Büyükada (Big Island) is an island in the Sea of Marmara, near Istanbul, Turkey.

Büyükada is a tourist location for people from Istanbul for holidays. In Büyükada there are no cars allowed. The only cars are owned by the police, fire department and the other local authorities. The bicycle is the most common transport used in the island.

[[National Mall]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings on the National Mall, National Mall, Parks in the United States

The National Mall, often just called the Mall, is an open park in the city center Washington, D.C.  It has many museums, like the Smithsonian and the National Gallery of Art.  It is found between the United States Capitol and the Washington Monument, which are about one mile apart.  It is a popular place, and is used for exercise, recreation, music concerts, festivals, and protests.  It is also visited by many tourists - over 25 million people come to the Mall each year.

[[How I Met Your Mother]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 American television series debuts, 2014 American television series endings, 2000s American sitcoms, 2000s romance television series, 2010s American sitcoms, 2010s romance television series, CBS network shows, Histrionic personality disorder in fiction, Television series about friendship, Television series set in New York City, English-language television programs

How I Met Your Mother (or HIMYM) is an American situation comedy (sitcom) that started on CBS Broadcasting on September 19, 2005.

The story is set in New York City. It is about a man named Ted Mosby who tells his son and daughter how he met their mother. Ted is played by Josh Radnor and the story is narrated by Bob Saget who plays Ted Mosby in the future year 2030. Other characters and friends of Ted are Marshall Eriksen (Jason Segel), Robin Scherbatsky (Cobie Smulders), Barney Stinson (Neil Patrick Harris), and Lily Aldrin (Alyson Hannigan). "How I Met Your Mother" is also said to be the inheritor of "Friends" -- another famous sitcom from 1994 to 2004.

The 9th and final season started airing on September 23, 2013. The show ended on March 31, 2014.

[[Pixelization]]

CATEGORIES: Censorship, Art

Pixelization is a way of hiding information from a picture. It is often used to censor pictures or movies that are inappropriate. It is also used to hide someone's face if they do not wish to be seen. 

[[Yıldız Technical University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey

Yıldız Technical University is a university in Turkey. It is found in Beşiktaş,İstanbul. The university has three campuses in Davutpasa, Yıldız and Ayazağa. It is a public university.

[[Tract]]

CATEGORIES: Genres, Religious texts

A tract, is a short literary work that is written to convince somebody of an idea or belief. Tracts are often used in politics as political propaganda,  or in religion by people who want to share their religious beliefs. They are often either left for someone to find, or are given out for free.

[[Primitive Methodist Church]]

CATEGORIES: Methodism

The Primitive Methodist Church is a body of evangelical Christians in the Methodist denomination. They began in England in the early 1800s, with the influence of American evangelist Lorenzo Dow (1777–1834).

[[Anadolu University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey, 1958 establishments, 20th century establishments in Turkey

Anadolu University (Turkish: Anadolu Üniversitesi)  is a high-degree educational institution in Eskişehir, Turkey providing distance education.

[[National Air and Space Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Smithsonian Institution, Space, 1976 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Washington, D.C.

The National Air and Space Museum  is a museum in Washington, D.C., United States, in the National Mall.  It is the most popular Smithsonian museum, and over five million people visit it each year.  The museum has the most airplanes and spacecraft in the world.

[[Daniel Alfredsson]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Calder Trophy winners, Detroit Red Wings players, Living people, Olympic gold medalists, Olympic silver medalists, Ottawa Senators players, People from Gothenburg, Swedish Hockey League players, Swedish ice hockey players

Daniel Alfredsson (born 11 December 1972) is a Swedish retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played a career total of 18 years in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Ottawa Senators and the Detroit Red Wings. He is best known for being the captain of the Senators from 1999–2013. He also played in the Elitserien with Frölunda HC.

Before playing in the NHL, Alfredsson played 3 seasons in the Swedish Elite League with Frölunda HC. He was selected by the Senators with the 133rd overall pick in the 1994 NHL Draft. Alfredsson won the Calder Memorial Trophy in 1996. He returned to play for Frölunda HC for 15 games during the 2004–05 NHL lockout. He played for the Ottawa Senators for 17 seasons and served as their captain from 1999 to 2013. On July 5, 2013, Alfredsson signed a one-year, $5.5 million contract with the Detroit Red Wings.

On December 4, 2014, Alfredsson decided to sign a one-day contract to officially retire as a member of the Ottawa Senators.

He played for the Sweden men's national ice hockey team and won the gold medal with them during the 2006 Winter Olympics. He also won a silver medal with the team at the 2014 Winter Olympics.

[[Termite]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

Termites are a suborder of social insects, the Isoptera. They are sometimes called "white ants", incorrectly, because ants belong to the Order Hymenoptera. 

They are eusocial animals, as are ants and some bees and wasps. Termites mostly feed on detritus, mostly wood, leaf litter, soil, or animal dung. There are an estimated 4,000 species (about 2,600 taxonomically known). About 10% are pests which can cause serious structural damage to buildings, crops or plantation forests. 

Termites are major detrivores in the subtropical and tropical regions. Their recycling of wood and other plant matter is very important for ecology.

A termite colony starts when winged termites (called alates) swarm and mate. After mating, they fall to the ground and rip off their wings. The female looks for a good place to start the colony, and the male follows her. Most termites nest underground their entire lives, but termites in Africa and Australia actually build really big mound structures that look like little mountains and can be more than 20 feet tall (see photo below).

Termites live in colonies that, at maturity, hold from several hundred to several million individuals. They are a prime example self-organised systems which use swarm intelligence. They use this cooperation to exploit food sources and environments which would not be available to any single insect acting alone. A typical colony contains nymphs (semi-mature young), workers, soldiers, and reproductive individuals of both genders, sometimes containing several egg-laying queens.

[[Dany Heatley]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Anaheim Ducks players, Atlanta Thrashers players, Calder Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Canadian Olympic gold medalists, German ice hockey players, Ice hockey people from Alberta, Living people, Medalists at the 2010 Winter Olympics, Minnesota Wild players, Ottawa Senators players, People from Freiburg im Breisgau, San Jose Sharks players, Sportspeople from Calgary, American Hockey League players

Daniel James Heatley (born January 21, 1981) is a Canadian professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the Anaheim Ducks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Atlanta Thrashers, Ottawa Senators, San Jose Sharks and the Minnesota Wild.

Heatley was born in Freiburg and raised in Calgary.

Heatley won the Calder Memorial Trophy in 2002. He won the trophy when he was playing for the Atlanta Thrashers. In 2005 Heatley asked to be traded because of his involvement in a car accident that killed teammate and close friend Dan Snyder. He was traded to Ottawa Senators. Heatley then later traded to San Jose Sharks in 2009. Olympic champion in ice hockey with team Canada in Vancouver 2010.

On July 9, 2014, he signed a one-year, $1 million contract as a free agent with the Anaheim Ducks.

[[Mantis]]

CATEGORIES: Insects, Mimicry

A Mantis (order Mantodea) is a type of insect. They are usually known as praying mantids because of their prayer-like stance.

The group contains about 2,300 species. They occur in temperate and tropical habitats. Most are in are in the family Mantidae, and are called Mantids.

In Europe, the name "praying mantis" refers to only a single species, Mantis religiosa. They are sometimes confused with phasmids (stick insects).

The closest relatives of mantids are the order Blattodea (cockroaches and termites), and these two groups together are ranked as the Superorder Dictyoptera.

[[Memphis blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

The Memphis blues is a type of blues music that was created in the 1920s and 1930s.

[[Piano blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music, Piano

Piano blues is a type of Blues music where the piano is the main musical instrument used.  Boogie woogie is the best known kind of piano blues, though barrelhouse, swing, R&B, rock and roll and jazz are also important.

[[Jazz blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music, Jazz music

Jazz blues is a musical style that combines jazz and blues.

[[Fife and drum blues]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

Fife and drum blues is a form of traditional country blues. It is played with a lead fife player, a vocalist, and a troop of drummers.  

[[Knapsack]]

The word knapsack can mean:

[[Earwig]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

Earwigs is the name given to a group of insects (called Dermaptera). They are characterized by wings they can fold under short, leather-like forewings. There are about 1800 species of earwigs. They do not seem to spread any disease, or harm humans in any way. Most of them are 10-14mm long, some species can reach 80mm. Most earwigs are omnivores they also eat some insect larvae.

[[Silverfish]]

CATEGORIES: Apterygota

Lepisma saccharina (commonly called the fishmoth, urban silverfish or just the silverfish) is a small, wingless insect. Typically it is between half an inch and one inch (12–25 mm). Its common name comes from the animal's silvery blue color, combined with the fish-like appearance of its movements. The scientific name indicates the silverfish's diet of carbohydrates such as sugar or starches. It belongs to the basal insect order Thysanura, and the species is estimated to have existed for over 300 million years, originating in the Paleozoic Era. Often misidentified as a silverfish is the house centipede, another house-dwelling arthropod that exhibits rapid, fluid movement.

An eyeless species of silverfish, or a close relative, was discovered in January 2006 in caves in Sequoia National Park, California.

[[Amazing Grace]]

CATEGORIES: Christian hymns, 18th-century British poems, 18th century songs, 1772, 1770s works

"Amazing Grace" is a poem written in 1772 by Englishman John Newton. The poem named, "Faith's Review and Expectation", was where the song came from. It was set to music. A seventh stanza, by an unknown author, has been added to most versions since 1829, beginning with the words, "When we've been there ten thousand years". In some versions, stanzas five and six to the song are cut and go directly to the seventh.

[[30,000 Pounds of Bananas]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 songs, Scranton, Pennsylvania

"30,000 Pounds of Bananas" is a song by Harry Chapin. It is from his 1974 Verities & Balderdash album.

The song tells the story of  real-life truck accident which happened on March 18, 1965, in Scranton, Pennsylvania.

[[Corrie ten Boom]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1983 deaths, Autobiographers, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch people of World War II, Evangelists, Righteous Among the Nations, Writers from Amsterdam

Cornelia Johanna Arnolda "Corrie" ten Boom (April 15, 1892 – April 15, 1983) was a Dutch evangelist and Nazi concentration camp survivor. She helped nearly 800 Jews escape the Nazis during World War II. Ten Boom co-wrote her autobiography The Hiding Place. It was later made into a movie of the same name. In December 1967, Ten Boom was given the award of "Righteous Among the Nations"' by the State of Israel. 

She was born in Amsterdam and died in California at the age of 91.

[[Lincoln Memorial]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings on the National Mall, Abraham Lincoln, Monuments and memorials in the United States, 1922 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Washington, D.C.

The Lincoln Memorial was built to remember Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln was the 16th President of the United States. He led the nation during the American Civil War.  The memorial is in the National Mall in Washington, D.C., and is a popular site for tourists.

[[Myki]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport in Melbourne

Myki is a new ticket to replace the Metcard. 

[[Morwell, Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Victoria

Morwell is a city in Gippsland, east of Victoria. Morwell is in the Latrobe Valley. The Latrobe Valley has a lot of brown coal which is burned to make electricity in power stations. It is also the centre for the City of Latrobe. 

The name Morwell is believed to have come from the Australian aboriginal Gunnai language meaning "people who live in the swamp".

[[Archaeognatha]]

CATEGORIES: Insects

Archaeognatha is an order of wingless insects, also known as jumping bristletails. They are among those insects which changed least during evolution. They first appear in the Devonian period along with the arachnids (Spiders). The name Archaeognatha is derived from Greek Archaeos meaning "ancient" and gnatha meaning "jaw". This refers to the articulation of the mandibles, which has a single condyle, where all higher insects have two. An alternate name, Microcoryphia comes from the Greek micro meaning "small" and coryphia meaning head.

The Order Archaeognatha has previously been combined with the Order Thysanura, or bristletails. Both groups have three-pronged tails with two cerci and an epiproct. Archaeognatha differ from Thysanura in that they are able to use their tail to spring up to 30 cm into the air. 

There are approximately 350 species in the two families. They are distributed worldwide, and unusual in the insect world in that they can even be found in the Arctic where they live in leaf litter and rock crevices. They feed primarily on algae, but also lichens, mosses, or decaying organic materials.

There are no species at current conservation risk, though the order is one of the most poorly-studied among insects, and therefore it may simply be that no one has yet recognized that any species are at risk.

[[Ravi Zacharias]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2020 deaths, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, American Evangelicals, American philosophers, American radio personalities, American writers, Canadian Christians, Canadian radio personalities, Canadian writers, Christian ministers, Christian writers, Converts to Christianity, Deaths from spinal cancer, Indian writers, Naturalized citizens of Canada, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Chennai, Writers from Atlanta, Georgia

Frederick Antony Ravi Kumar Zacharias (March 26, 1946 – May 19, 2020) was an Indian-born Canadian-American Evangelical Christian apologist and evangelist. Zacharias was the author of many Christian books, such as the Gold Medallion Book Award winner Can Man Live Without God? Zacharias established Ravi Zacharias International Ministries (RZIM) and presented the radio programs Let My People Think and Just Thinking.

Zacharias died of spinal cancer on May 19, 2020 at his home in Atlanta, Georgia at the age of 74.

[[WWE NXT]]

CATEGORIES: WWE, 2012 establishments in the United States, 2010s establishments in Florida

'WWE NXT is a professional wrestling promotion based in Winter Park, Florida. It is the official developmental territory for WWE.

[[Blues scale]]

CATEGORIES: Blues music

The blues scale is a hexatonic scale with minor pentatonic scale. But because blues notes (or blue notes) have a different form, there can be no one blues scale. As named in contemporary jazz theory, its use is based on the key and not the chord, unlike some chords in jazz.

The semitone differences for a blues scale  are 3-2-1-1-3-2 for instance- C-Eb-F-F#-G-Bb-C

[[Infant baptism]]

CATEGORIES: Sacraments

Infant baptism is the baptism (or "christening") of young children or infants. In theology, the practice is sometimes called paedobaptism or pedobaptism.

[[OMF International]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations

OMF International (or Overseas Missionary Fellowship and China Inland Mission before 1964) is an inter-denominational Protestant Christian missionary society. It was started by English missionary Hudson Taylor on 25 June, 1865.

[[Wordless Book]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 books, Religious texts, Religious symbols, Charles Spurgeon

A Wordless Book is a Christian evangelistic device. Most believe that it was created by the famous London Baptist preacher Charles Haddon Spurgeon. It is called a "book", as it is usually has pages, but it can also be shown on a single page or banner.

[[Swarm intelligence]]

CATEGORIES: Artificial intelligence

Swarm Intelligence is a field of Computer science. It is a form of Artificial intelligence. Some animals, mostly insects like ants, or bees form large colonies. These colonies are made of many animals that communicate with each other. Each animal is relatively simple, but by working together with other animals it is able to solve complex tasks. 

Swarm intelligence wants to obtain similar behaviour than that observed with these animals. Instead of the animals, so called agents are used.

[[Hudson Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1832 births, 1905 deaths, Baptists, Christian religious leaders, Christian writers, English physicians, English Protestants, Missionaries, Writers from Yorkshire

James Hudson Taylor 戴德生 (May 21, 1832 – June 3,1905) was a British Protestant Christian missionary to China. He started the China Inland Mission (CIM) (now OMF International). Taylor spent 51 years in China.

[[Baptist Union of Great Britain]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations, 1891 establishments in Europe, 1890s establishments in the United Kingdom

The Baptist Union of Great Britain (BUGB) is the both oldest and largest national group of Baptist churches in Great Britain. It was started when the General Baptists and Particular Baptists came together in 1891.

[[Credit]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Money

When somebody borrows resources from somebody else, credit is the trust that they will later pay it back. The term often is used when somebody borrows money from a bank. This is called a loan. A bank may not give somebody credit if they do not think they would pay the loan back.

[[Spurgeon's College]]

CATEGORIES: Christian colleges and universities, Christian organizations, Charles Spurgeon

Spurgeon's College is a theological institute in London. It was started by Charles Spurgeon, known as "the Prince of Preachers." It was first named The Pastors' College when it opened in 1857. When it moved to its present building in 1923, it was renamed in honour of its starter Charles Spurgeon.

[[Michael Vick]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, African American players of American football, Living people, Atlanta Falcons players, Philadelphia Eagles players, Sportspeople from Virginia, American football quarterbacks, People from Newport News, Virginia

Michael Vick is a former American football quarterback of the National Football League (NFL). He played in three Pro Bowls. He played for the Atlanta Falcons, Philadelphia Eagles, New York Jets, and Pittsburgh Steelers.

Vick was born in Newport News, Virginia on June 26, 1980. He played college football for the Virginia Tech Hokies. The Atlanta Falcons chose him with the first pick in the 2001 NFL Draft.

In 2007, he was arrested for forcing dogs to fight each other. Some of the dogs died. He had been doing this since 2002. He was sent to prison, and was released in 2009. The Falcons did not want him back, and drafted another quarterback, Matt Ryan.

After Vick was released from prison, he accepted an offer to join the Philadelphia Eagles. In 2009, he backed up Donovan McNabb and Kevin Kolb, but became a starter in the following two seasons. He was elected as a Pro Bowler in 2011. Vick has been known as a great running quarterback. He rushed for 1,000 yards in 2006 with the Falcons.

[[Tom Brady]]

CATEGORIES: Tampa Bay Buccaneers players, American football quarterbacks, Sportspeople from San Francisco, 1977 births, Living people, People from San Mateo, California

Thomas Edward Patrick Brady Jr. (born August 3, 1977) is an American football quarterback for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the National Football League (NFL). He spent the first 20 seasons of his career with the New England Patriots, playing in ten Super Bowls and winning seven of them, the most of any player in NFL history. He is widely regarded as greatest quarterback in football history, and one of the greatest football players of all time. 

[[Randy Moss]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Minnesota Vikings players, New England Patriots players, Oakland Raiders players, Tennessee Titans players, Sportspeople from West Virginia

Randy Moss (born February 13 1977) is an American football player. He plays as a wide receiver for the San Francisco 49ers. Moss came out of retirement to play with the 49ers. He played college football at Marshall University. Moss was picked in the 1998 NFL Draft, in the first round with the 21st overall pick by the Minnesota Vikings. Moss played his NFL career with the Tennessee Titans, Oakland Raiders, Minnesota Vikings and New England Patriots, and has also played in 7 Pro Bowls. In 2007 (in which the Patriots went 16-0), Moss caught 23 touchdowns and helped quarterback Tom Brady set a record with 50 touchdown passes that year. However, he has sometimes been criticized for his lack of effort, which was most evident with Oakland and during Moss's second stint with Minnesota in 2010.

[[Norm Van Brocklin]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 1983 deaths, American football quarterbacks, Sportspeople from South Dakota

Norm Van Brocklin (March 15, 1926 – May 2, 1983) was an American football coach for the Atlanta Falcons. He is a member of the NFL Hall of Fame as a player for the Los Angeles Rams (1949-1957) and the Philadelphia Eagles (1958-1960)

[[San Antonio Spurs]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in San Antonio, Texas, 1976 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Texas

The San Antonio Spurs are a team in the National Basketball Association in San Antonio, Texas. They began playing in the NBA in 1976. They play their home game at the AT&T Center. They are currently coached by Gregg Popovich. They won 5 NBA Championships in 1999, 2003, 2005, 2007, and 2014 respectively.

Notable players for the Spurs are Tim Duncan, Manu Ginóbili, Tony Parker, David Robinson, and Kawhi Leonard.

[[Atlanta Hawks]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Atlanta, Georgia, 1946 establishments, Sports in Buffalo, New York, Sports in Illinois, Sports in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Sports in St. Louis, Missouri

The Atlanta Hawks are a team in the National Basketball Association. They play their home games at Philips Arena in Atlanta, Georgia.

[[Golden State Warriors]]

CATEGORIES: Golden State Warriors, 1946 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in California

The Golden State Warriors are an American professional basketball team in the National Basketball Association. They are one of the oldest teams in the NBA. They played in Philadelphia as the Philadelphia Warriors from 1946 to 1962, and in San Francisco from 1962 to 1971. Currently, they play in San Francisco, California at the Chase Center. The Warriors have won six NBA championships, in 1947, 1956, 1975, 2015, 2017, and 2018. Many great basketball players have played or still play for the Warriors, these players are Joe Fulks, Paul Arizin, Neil Johnston, Tim Hardaway, Wilt Chamberlain, Guy Rodgers, Al Attles, Rick Barry, Nate Thurmond, Chris Mullin, Latrell Sprewell, Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Draymond Green, Andre Iguodala, Shaun Livingston, and JaVale McGee.

In the 2007 NBA playoffs, they pulled off one of the biggest upsets in NBA playoff history by upsetting the Dallas Mavericks, who finished with 67 wins and 15 losses. The Mavs also had Dirk Nowitzki, who won MVP that year. Before they shocked Dirk's Mavericks, the Warriors had Baron Davis and they also had 42 wins and 40 losses. They won the series 4-2 in game 6. 

In 2016, the Warriors went back to NBA Finals and met the Cleveland Cavaliers, who they beat the year before, but they became the 11th team to blow a 3-1 series lead and the first to do it in the NBA Finals and lost. Before losing 4-3 to the Cavaliers, they had 73 wins and 9 losses, breaking the 72-10 record and also becoming the 10th team to overcome a 3-1 series deficit to win the series against the Oklahoma City Thunder. With the help of Durant, the Warriors would win back-to-back titles against the Cavaliers in 2017 and 2018 before losing to the Toronto Raptors in 2019.

[[Sacramento Kings]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sacramento, California, 1948 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in California

The Sacramento Kings are a team in the National Basketball Association in Sacramento, California. They began playing in the National Basketball Association in 1948. They play their home games at Golden 1 Center (Their last arena being Sleep Train Arena (formally known as Arco Arena)).

[[Philadelphia 76ers]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Philadelphia

The Philadelphia 76ers (called 76ers or Sixers for short) are a professional basketball team in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. They play in the National Basketball Association. They started in the year 1946 as the Syracuse Nationals. They joined the NBA in 1949. The 76ers have won three NBA championships.

[[New York Knicks]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams

The New York Knicks, officially the New York Knickerbockers, are a team in the National Basketball Association (NBA) in New York, New York. The current head coach of the team is Tom Thibodeau. The Knicks play their home games at Madison Square Garden.

[[Utah Jazz]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Salt Lake City, 1974 establishments in the United States

The Utah Jazz are a team in the National Basketball Association in Utah. They were originally from New Orleans, Louisiana in the late 1970s. Jazz music is popular in New Orleans, and the team was named the Jazz when it was in New Orleans. The team kept the name when it moved to Utah.

The Jazz are in Salt Lake City, Utah's capital, and they made it to the NBA Finals in 1997 and 1998. John Stockton and Karl Malone were players that led them to these championship games. They played the Chicago Bulls both times, and Michael Jordan helped the Bulls win against the Jazz both times in six games.

Jerry Sloan has coached the Jazz for over 20 years. He started coaching after Frank Layden stopped coaching the Jazz. Sloan felt a big load on his shoulders with his role as coach, and that became clear when he announced in 2011 that he decided to step down. His main assistant, Phil Johnson, also stepped down. This came as a big surprise to many sports fans. The Utah Jazz hired Tyrone Corbin as the head coach in time for their next game of the 2010-2011 season. Corbin had played for the Jazz, and had been an assistant coach under Sloan for the team as well. Jeff Hornacek, a former Jazz player, also helped the Jazz by deciding to join the organization again as an assistant to Coach Corbin.

The Jazz had another big change in 2011. They traded Deron Williams, a veteran NBA player, to the New Jersey Nets. These big changes in the Jazz' profile in little over a month were preceded by a big change in 2009, when the owner and founder of the Jazz, Larry H. Miller, died. His son, Greg Miller, is now in charge, and Larry's wife Gail Miller still helps with decisions and feedback for the team.

[[Houston Rockets]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association teams, Sports in Houston, Texas, 1967 establishments in Texas

The Houston Rockets are a team in the National Basketball Association in Houston, Texas. They play their home games at the Toyota Center. They began playing in the NBA in 1967 and were originally known as the San Diego Rockets from 1967 to 1971. 

Hakeem Olajuwon was a star player for the Rockets. He lead them to their first NBA championship in 1994. They repeated as champions in 1995. Yao Ming was also a star player for the Rockets. 

[[Portland Trail Blazers]]

CATEGORIES: Portland Trail Blazers

The Portland Trail Blazers are a team in the National Basketball Association from Portland, Oregon. They play their home games at the Moda Center. They won 1 NBA Championship in 1977.

[[List of NBA champions]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association, Sports lists

This is a list of NBA Champions.

[[Extreme]]

Uses for the term extreme, which is sometimes spelled xtreme, include:

[[Julius Eastman]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century composers, American composers, American pianists, Singers from New York, American dancers, Musicians from New York, 1940 births, 1990 deaths

Julius Eastman (October 27, 1940 – May 28, 1990) was an African-American composer, pianist, singer and dancer. He is a minimalist.

Eastman grew up in Ithaca, New York. He began piano at age 14. He studied piano at the Curtis Institute of Music, with Mieczyslaw Horszowski and composition with Constant Vauclain.

In 1970, Eastman joined the Center for the Creative and Performing Arts at SUNY Buffalo, where he met the Czech-born composer, conductor, and flute player Petr Kotik. Eastman and Kotik played together in the early to mid 1970s. Eastman was a maker of the S.E.M. Ensemble. From 1971 he performed and traveled with the group.

He died alone in Millard Fillmore Hospital in Buffalo, New York of heart problems. No attention was given to his death until an obituary in the Village Voice by Kyle Gannon January 22, 1991, eight months after he died. 

[[Eli Manning]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Sportspeople from New Orleans, Louisiana, American football quarterbacks, New York Giants players

Elisha Nelson "Eli" Manning (born January 3, 1981 in New Orleans, Louisiana, USA) is a retired American football quarterback. Manning played for the New York Giants in the National Football League (NFL) for 16 seasons.

[[Paul Pierce]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Basketball players from California, Boston Celtics players, Sportspeople from Oakland, California

Paul Anthony Pierce (born October 13, 1977 in Oakland, California) is a retired American basketball player of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball at the University of Kansas. Pierce won an NBA championship with the Celtics in 2008, and won the NBA 3-Point Shooting Contest in 2010. He was the Most Valuable Player of the 2008 NBA Finals.

[[Scotty Bowman]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Canadian ice hockey coaches, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Jack Adams Award winners, Living people

William Scott "Scotty" Bowman (born September 18, 1933 in Montreal, Quebec, Canada) is a former National Hockey League head coach. He holds the record for most wins with 1,244.

[[Nigel Mansell]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, English racecar drivers, Formula One drivers, Sportspeople from Worcestershire

Nigel Ernest James Mansell OBE (born 8 August 1953 in Upton-upon-Severn, Worcestershire) is a British racing driver from England who won both the Formula One World Championship (1992) and CART World Series (1993). He is the only person in history to hold both titles simultaneously, and was the first person to win the CART title in his debut season. During the early nineties, Mansell was commonly known, by the British media especially, as Our Nige.

His career in Formula One spanned 15 seasons, with his final two full seasons of top-level racing being spent in the CART series. Mansell remains the most successful British Formula One driver of all-time in terms of race wins with 31 victories, and is fifth overall on the Formula One race winners list behind Lewis Hamilton,  Michael Schumacher, Alain Prost, and Ayrton Senna. He was rated in the top 10 Formula One drivers of all time by Murray Walker, who was a Formula One commentator for 50 years. In 2008, American sports television network ESPN ranked him 24th on their top drivers of all-time.

Mansell raced in the GP Masters series and signed a one-off race deal for the Scuderia Ecosse GT race team to drive their number 63 Ferrari430 GT2 car at Silverstone on 6 May 2007.

[[Graham Hill]]

CATEGORIES: Accidental deaths in the United Kingdom, Aviation deaths, English racecar drivers, Formula One drivers, Sportspeople from London, 1929 births, 1975 deaths

Norman Graham Hill (15 February 1929 – 29 November 1975) was a British racing driver and two-time Formula One World Champion. He was born in Hampstead, London and died in a plane crash in Arkley, London.  

His son Damon Hill and Damon's son Josh Hill are racing drivers.

[[Beşiktaş]]

CATEGORIES: Districts in Istanbul

Besiktas (Turkish: Beşiktaş) is a district in the European part of İstanbul. Beşiktaş is by the coastal of Bosphorus.

Beşiktaş has a football team called Beşiktaş Jimnastik Kulübü (BJK) (English: Besiktas Gym Club). BJK is one of the biggest and one of the most popular football team in Turkey.

[[Eusociality]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Genetics, Insects

Eusociality is a term in animal behaviour for the more complex kinds of social organisation. The term "eusocial" was introduced in 1966 by Suzanne Batra. E.O. Wilson gave it a more precise meaning.

[[Scuderia Ferrari]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors, Formula One current, Formula One engine manufacturers, 1929 establishments

220px|leftScuderia Ferrari is the name for the Gestione Sportiva, the division of the Ferrari automobile company concerned with racing. Though the Scuderia and Ferrari Corse Clienti continue to manage the racing activities of numerous Ferrari customers and private teams, Ferrari's racing division has completely devoted its attention and funding to its Formula One team, Scuderia Ferrari. Scuderia is Italian for "Stable", and Ferrari is the name of its founder. The prancing horse was the symbol on Italian World War I ace Francesco Baracca's fighter plane, and became the logo of Ferrari after the fallen ace's parents, good friends with Enzo Ferrari, asked him so, to continue his tradition of sportsmanship, gallantry and boldness. 

Scuderia Ferrari was founded in 1929, and raced for Alfa Romeo until 1939. Ferrari first competed in F1 in 1948 (the team's first F1 car was the Tipo 125 F1), making it the oldest and arguably the most successful team left in the championship. The team's numerous and ardent Italian fans are known as tifosi, though the team also has a vibrant international following.

One of the most popular Ferrari drivers was Michael Schumacher, who won five titles with Ferrari. He drove in this team from 1996 through 2006. Schumacher worked with Ferrari in a consulting role after he quit driving. In 2007, Kimi Räikkönen won the Driving Championship for Ferrari. In 2008 Felipe Massa lost the Championship Title to Lewis Hamilton by one point. Ferrari won the Constructors Championship in 2007 and 2008.

[[TRT]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish media

The TRT (Turkish Radio and Television Corporation) is the first television broadcaster and national public broadcaster of Turkey. Launched on 1926 as TR (Radio) 1964 May 1th as TRT (Radio) 1968 January 31 (Television) Currently it has 14 channels. (one of HD)

[[Cnbc-e]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish media

Cnbc-e is a TV channel which broadcasts financial and entertainment programs in Turkey. Cnbc-e broadcasts TV series and movies in original languages (mostly American series and movies) with Turkish subtitles.

[[Kanal D]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish media

Kanal D is a popular Turkish television channel broadcasting nationally. Euro D broadcasts Kanal D programmes to all Europe.

[[CNN Türk]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish media, CNN

CNN Türk is the Turkish version of international CNN. CNN Türk broadcasts nationwide in Turkey.

[[NTV Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish media, Television channels

NTV Turkey is a Turkish nationwide television channel which consists of news, sports programmes and documentaries.

[[Milliyet]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish-language newspapers, Newspapers published in Turkey, Istanbul

Milliyet is a major Turkish daily newspaper founded in 1950. Abdi İpekçi, the editor of Milliyet, was murdered in 1979 when coming from the newspaper to his home.

[[Damon Hill]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Sportspeople from London, English racecar drivers, Formula One drivers, Officers of the Order of the British Empire

Damon Graham Devereux Hill OBE (born 17 September 1960) is a British retired racing driver.

He was the 1996 Formula One World Champion. As the son of double Formula One world champion Graham Hill, he is the only son of a world champion to win the title, until Nico Rosberg, son of 1982 World Champion Keke Rosberg, clinched the title in 2016 . Despite the famous family name, Hill had an uphill struggle to reach the ranks of F1.

Damon Hill came to professional motorsports relatively late: he began racing motorcycles in 1983 at the age of 23. The following year, he won the 350 cc Clubman's cup at Brands Hatch. In 1985, he moved on to four-wheel single-seater racing with Team Van Diemen in the Formula Ford championship, before moving up into the UK Formula 3 championship in 1986. After three seasons in Formula 3, where he won four races, Hill ascended another tier of open-wheel racing by joining Mooncraft in the International Formula 3000 championship, where, although often competitive, he never won a race. 

Hill started his Formula One career in 1992 with the then uncompetitive Brabham team. His debut race was at the British Grand Prix where he qualified on the back row. He took the first of his 22 victories at the 1993 Hungarian Grand Prix for the Williams team the following year. In 1994, he won the British Grand Prix, a race his father had never won in his long and successful career. During the mid 1990s, Hill was Michael Schumacher's main rival for the Formula One Driver's Championship, finishing runner-up in the German's 1994 and 1995 title seasons. The two had a series of controversial clashes on and off the track, including the collision at the 1994 Australian Grand Prix that gave Schumacher his first title by a single point. Hill took eight victories and the world championship in 1996. Despite this, Williams decided in mid-1996 not to renew Hill's contract for 1997. He went on to record the Jordan team's first ever win at the 1998 Belgian Grand Prix, and came within a few miles of being the only driver to win a Grand Prix for the Arrows team and their Yamaha engine supplier at the 1997 Hungarian Grand Prix. He retired from the sport at the end of the 1999 season, after 122 races. In 2006, Hill became president of the British Racing Drivers' Club, succeeding Jackie Stewart.

Hill's son Josh is a racing driver.

[[List of newspapers in Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Turkey, Lists

There is a list of newspapers publishing in Turkey.

[[Aphid]]

CATEGORIES: Hemiptera, Agricultural pests

Aphids are small bugs which feed on plants. Aphids cause more plant damage than any other insects. There are over 4,000 different species of aphid.

About 250 species are serious pests for agriculture and forestry as well as an annoyance for gardeners. They vary in size from 1-10 mm long.

Important natural enemies include the predatory lady beetles (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), hoverfly larvae, lacewings (Neuroptera),  larvae of the aphid midge Aphidoletes aphidimyza, crab spiders, and insect-eating fungi like Lecanicillium lecanii.

Aphids are found many places on earth. Aphids are most common in temperate zones.

Aphids can travel far in the air. For example, the lettuce aphid spread from New Zealand to Tasmania.  They have also been spread by human transportation of infested plant materials.

[[Aigle]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Switzerland, Municipalities of Vaud

Aigle is the capital of the district of Aigle in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The town has a population of 8,100 people.

[[Brabham]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors

Motor Racing Developments Ltd., commonly known as Brabham (ˈbræbəm), was a British company that built racing cars. It also ran a racing team in Formula One. It was founded in 1960 by two Australians, driver Jack Brabham and designer Ron Tauranac. The team won four drivers' and two constructors' world championships in its 30-year Formula One history. As of 2008, Jack Brabham's 1966 drivers' championship remains the only victory by a car bearing the driver's own name.

Brabham was the world's largest manufacturer of customer open wheel racing cars in the 1960s, and had built more than 500 cars by 1970. During this period, teams using Brabham cars won championships in Formula Two and Formula Three and competed in the Indianapolis 500. In the 1970s and 1980s, Brabham introduced innovations such as the controversial but successful 'fan car', in-race refuelling, carbon brakes, and hydropneumatic suspension. The team won two more Formula One drivers' championships in the 1980s with Brazilian Nelson Piquet, and became the first to win a drivers' championship with a turbocharged car.

British businessman Bernie Ecclestone owned Brabham during most of the 1970s and 1980s, and later become responsible for administering the commercial aspects of Formula One. Ecclestone sold the team in 1988. Its last owner was the Middlebridge Group, a Japanese engineering firm. Midway through the 1992 season, the team collapsed financially as Middlebridge was unable to make repayments against loans provided by Landhurst Leasing. The case was investigated by the UK Serious Fraud Office.

[[Afrotheria]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals

The Afrotheria is a group of mammals, (a superorder or a clade). It includes the golden moles, elephant shrews, tenrecs, aardvarks, hyraxes, elephants and manatees. 

Biologists made this group based on RNA sequence analysis. Afrotheria are one of four major groups in the Eutheria (placental mammals). Afrotheria means "African animals", "afro" for Africa and "theria" for animals. 

More recent genomics suggests that Afrotheria and Xenarthra are sister taxa at the base of the placental mammal radiation.

Relations between the various afrotherian orders are still being studied. Elephants and manatees seem to be related, and likewise elephant shrews and aardvarks. These findings are compatible with the work of earlier anatomists.

[[Kimi Räikkönen]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Finnish racecar drivers, Formula One drivers, NASCAR drivers, Espoo

Kimi-Matias Räikkönen (ˈkimi ˈmɑtiɑs ˈræikkønen) (born October 17, 1979 in Espoo, Finland) is a race car driver, currently driving for Alfa Romeo Racing. He is the 2007 Formula One World Drivers' Champion.

Räikkönen entered Formula One as a regular driver for Sauber-Petronas in 2001. Having previously only raced in very junior open-wheel categories, he was given his Super Licence from the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) after a performance delivery promise from his team boss, Peter Sauber. He joined McLaren Mercedes in 2002, and became a title contender by finishing runner-up in the 2003 and 2005 championships to Michael Schumacher and Fernando Alonso, respectively.

Switching to Ferrari in 2007, Räikkönen became the highest paid driver in the sport, and secured his first Formula One World Drivers' Championship, beating McLaren drivers Lewis Hamilton and Fernando Alonso by one point.

Räikkönen is very calm, cool, and calculating in his race strategy—prompting the nickname "Iceman", which is subtly written on the side of his current helmet design. His other nicknames include Kimppa, Räikkä and Kimster (used by his mechanics).

[[Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One, Non-profit organizations of France, 1904 establishments in France

La Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile, usually called the FIA, is a non-profit association established as the Association Internationale des Automobile Clubs Reconnus (AIACR) on June 20, 1904 to represent the interests of motoring organisations and motor car users. Most people know the FIA as the governing body for motor racing events. 

Headquartered at 8, Place de la Concorde, Paris, the FIA has 213 national member organisations in 125 countries worldwide. Its current president is Max Mosley. 

As is the case with football's FIFA, the FIA is generally known by its French name and acronym, even in English-speaking countries, but is sometimes called the International Automobile Federation.

[[Presociality]]

CATEGORIES: Zoology

Presociality is a term which applies to animal behaviour. Presocial animals have close family relationships, more than just sexual interactions with members of the same species. However, they do not form the extreme colonies of eusocial insects, such as ants.

Presocial animals can live together and take care of their young. They may have some division of labor, but they do not have all the three essential traits of eusocial animals, which are: 

Presocial behavior is much more common in the animal kingdom than complete eusociality. Examples include canines that live in packs, numerous insects, especially hymenoptera, humans, many birds, chimpanzees, and many other animals that display social behavior.

The concept of presociality can be further divided:

Among the Vespid wasps, the pressures of predators and parasites selected subsocial behaviour. It is easier to guard the eggs and grubs when the mother wasp stays in her nest to watch over her larva. More so if other adults stay with her. Then the other adults need to collect more food than just for themselves. And so on. it becomes less likely that parasites will be successful in preying on the nest.

[[Murrumbidgee River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory

The Murrumbidgee River is a big river in New South Wales, Australia, and the Australian Capital Territory.  It joins in with the Murray River. The word Murrumbidgee is from the Wiradjuri language (Indigenous Australian) and means "big water", "track goes down here" or "very good place". There are many large towns built next to the river, Gundagai, Wagga Wagga, Narrandera, Hay and Balranald.

[[Neotominae]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Neotominae is a subfamily of the family Cricetidae. It consists of three tribes, 16 genera, and many species of New World rats and mice. Most of them are found in North America. Among them are the well-known deer mice, white-footed mice, packrats, and grasshopper mice.

Neotomines are related to the other two subfamilies of mice in the New World, Sigmodontinae and Tylomyinae. Many authorities place them all in a single subfamily, Sigmodontinae.

[[Kusadasi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Kusadasi (Turkish Kuşadası) is a town in the province of Aydın in Turkey. The town is a tourist resort and is near the ancient city of Ephesus. It has a population of about 65,000 people.

[[Ayvalik]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Ayvalik (Turkish Ayvalık) is a seaside town in the west of Turkey in the province of Balıkesir. The town had an important number of Greek people living there. After the Turkish Independence War the population changes with Turkish and Greek population and Greek population have gotten smaller.

[[Bregenz]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian state capitals, Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Bregenz (Vorarlbergian: Breagaz)  is the capital of Vorarlberg, the westernmost federal state of Austria. About 27.000 people live in the city proper, its agglomeration has about 60.000 people. Together with Lindau, the settled area (which reaches into the south of Germany, and into Switzerland) has about 120.000 people. The city has a port on Lake Constance and is a railway hub. 

Humans have lived in the area since about 1500 BC. During Roman times, there was an Oppidum. Parts of the city are fortified. Bregenz has the right to hold a market once a week since 1330. 

The borders of Switzerland and Germany are less than 10 km away. 

The main ethnic groups are Austrians, Turkish, Italians, Serbians, and Germans.

[[Togo mouse]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

The Togo mouse (or Büttner's African forest mouse or the Groove-toothed forest mouse, Leimacomys buettneri) is a unique muroid rodent. It is known from only two specimens, which were taken near the locality of Bismarckburg, near Yege, Togo in 1890.

[[Nazimiye]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Turkey

Nazimiye is a district of Tunceli Province in Turkey. Its old name is Kisle. The district has a total population of about 2000 people. There is no industrial activity in Nazimiye. Agriculture and state ownership institutions are the only jobs there.

[[Yalova]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Yalova is a Turkish city in the northwest, which was affected in the earthquake of 17 August 1999. The city is along the coast of the Marmara Sea. Yalova has a better quality of life from other Turkish cities. It has a population of 77,000.

The first people settled in this region in the Prehistoric Period.

Twin cities of Yalova are Bonn in Germany and Mahachkala in Russia.

[[Mudanya]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Turkey, Districts of Bursa Province

Mudanya is a town along the Sea of Marmara and also a district of Bursa Province in Turkey. It is located in Gulf of Gemlik.  The town has a road transportation with Bursa and seaway transportation by ferries with Istanbul.

Mudanya has industrial sector and agriculture sector especially oil production. The town also has a seaport.

[[Gemlik]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Bursa Province, Cities in Turkey

Gemlik is a harbor town in Turkey. It has 70,000 people living there. Gemlik is a district of Bursa Province. It has a free industrial zone. This zone helped the development of industry in Gemlik. Agriculture is mostly olives for eating, and olive oil is an important economic activity in Gemlik.

There is a seaport in the town. Gemlik is between Bursa and İstanbul. Because of this location, the town developed rapidly after 1990s.

[[Chinchillidae]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

The family Chinchillidae contains the chinchillas, viscachas, and their fossil relatives.  They are restricted to southern and western South America. Often they can be found in the Andes. They are large rodents, weighing from 800 grams to 8 kilograms. They have strong hind legs and large ears. All species have thick, soft fur. Their fur is considered valuable in some species.

[[Myomorpha]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Suborder Myomorpha has 1,137 species of mouse-like rodents, almost a quarter of all mammals. mice, rats, gerbils, hamsters, lemmings and voles are in the group. They are grouped according to how the jaw looks like and how the molar teeth look like. They are very good at biting and chewing. Myomorphs are found all around the world, except Antarctica, in almost all land places. They are usually animals who are more active at night and they are seed-eaters.

Most myomorph species belong to superfamily Muroidea:

[[Eumuroida]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Eumuroida are a group of all muroid rodents, or the true muroids. It was made in 2004. The group is not in the standard taxonomic classification, but it is between superfamily and family. The Eumuroida is the clade including all organisms which evolved from the most recent ancestor of the Calomyscidae, Nesomyidae, Cricetidae, and Muridae. 

[[Mouse-like hamsters]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Mouse-like hamsters are a group of small rodents found in Syria, Azerbaijan, Iran, Turkmenistan, Afghanistan, and Pakistan.  They are found in rocky and slightly high areas in desert regions.

The mouse-like hamsters are not real hamsters, although they look like hamsters.  They were once thought to be hamsters based on the shape of their teeth, but they do not have the cheek pouches, and short tail of the true hamsters. All animals in this genus were part of the same species before, Calomyscus bailwardi, but they are now separate species because they have big differences in chromosome number, skull length and weight, and other differences.

In Europe, species of Calomyscus can be kept as a pet. They are called Calomyscus bailwardi mystax or Calomyscus bailwardi. Only special people sell them, not pet shops, so they are usually only people who really like mice will buy them.

Mouse-like hamsters live the longest of all the mouse species.  They have been recorded as living 9 years, 3 months and 18 days in captivity.  They regularly live over 4 years in captivity.  The species which lives the second longest in the muroids lives 7 years, 8 months, which is the Canyon Mouse, Peromyscus crinitus.  

[[Nesomyidae]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

Nesomyidae is a family of African rodents in the large and complicated superfamily Muroidea.  It includes many subfamilies, which all live in Africa. Malagasy rats and mice, climbing mice, African rock mice, swamp mice, pouched rats, and the white-tailed rat are in this family.

[[Manisa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Manisa is a large city in western Turkey in Asia Minor.

[[Eskişehir]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Eskişehir (eskē'shehēr, Eskişehir, "Old City") is a city that can be found in the northwestern part of Turkey. It is the capital district of Eskişehir Province.

[[Cricetidae]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

The Cricetidae are a family of rodents in the large and complicated superfamily Muroidea. It includes true hamsters, voles, lemmings, and New World rats and mice. With almost 600 species, it is the second largest family of mammals, and has animals in it in the New World, Asia, and Europe.

[[Gaziantep]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Gaziantep, is a city in the southeast of Turkey. It has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Koeppen climate classification). Gaziantep is well known for its dessert Baklava. Gaziantep is the sixth biggest city in Turkey.

Gazantiep has had terrorist attacks in 2012, May 2016 and August 2016.

[[Baklava]]

CATEGORIES: Greek food, Turkish food, Middle Eastern foods, Desserts

Baklava (Ottoman Turkish: باقلوا‎) is a traditional sweet made from pastry and often eaten as a dessert. It is known in many countries of the Middle East, Western Asia and the Balkan Peninsula. It is also developed from the cookery of the Ottoman Empire. 

Baklava is made of thin pastry layers filled with nuts, pistachios or walnuts. It sweetened with special syrup or honey. Baklava can also be served with ice cream or kaymak (clotted cream). Its name derives from the name of the Balkans region. Woman make baklava for serving in Eid ul-Fitr.

Baklava is also a popular dessert in Greece. Baklava is served at Greek Orthodox Easter, which is the biggest celebration of the Eastern Orthodox Church, honored by various customs and religious ceremonies.

[[Radikal]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish-language newspapers, Newspapers published in Turkey, Istanbul

Radikal was a nationwide newspaper in Turkey. Radikal was a center-left newspaper. It shares social liberal ideas. 

On Sundays it gave an extra called Radikal2.

[[ÖSS]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey

ÖSS Turkish Öğrenci Seçme Sınavı is the exam for entering universities in Turkey. Every year in June, the ÖSS exam is done. OSS is a test exam which has many questions from different subjects such as Maths, Geography, and History.

[[Ahmet Necdet Sezer]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Turkey, 1941 births, Living people

Ahmet Necdet Sezer (born September 13, 1941 in Afyonkarahisar) is a Turkish politician who was the tenth President of Turkey. He was president from May 16, 2000 until August 28, 2007. He was a republican and supporter of secularism in Turkey.

[[Kamer Genç]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Turkish politicians, Zaza

Kamer Genç (February 23, 1940 – January 22, 2016) was a Turkish politician. He is of Zaza origin.  He was a member of parliament as a member of the Republican People's Party in the 18th, 19th, and 23rd election cycles, and in the 20th and 21st as a member of the True Path Party. He was born in Nazımiye, Tunceli Province.

Genç died of cancer in Istanbul, Turkey on January 22, 2016 at the age of 75.

[[Emine Erdoğan]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Arab people, First Ladies, People from Istanbul

Emine Erdoğan, born as Emine Gülbaran, (born February 16, 1955 in Üsküdar, Istanbul) is the First Lady of Turkey and the wife of current Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. They were married on July, 4 1978. She is of Arab descent.

Her family is originally from Siirt in southeast Turkey. She went to Istanbul Mithatpaşa Vocational Institute for Girls. 

[[Kenan Evren]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from gastrointestinal hemorrhage, Generals, Presidents of Turkey, Turkish military people

Ahmet Kenan Evren (17 July 1917 – 9 May 2015), was a Turkish politician who served as the 7th President of Turkey. He was a former Turkish general and the leader of the coup d'état on 12 September 1980.

On 18 June 2014, Evren and General Tahsin Şahinkaya were given life sentences because of their roles in the 1980 coup. Evren and Şahinkaya had both of their military ranks stripped and both were demoted to rank of Private.

Evren died at a military hospital in Ankara of gastrointestinal hemorrhage on 9 May 2015, aged 97.

[[Show TV]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish media, Television networks

Show TV is a national television channel in Turkey. The channel launched on March 1, 1991. Turkish news presenter Ali Kırca is the one of the important people on Show TV.

[[Cumhuriyet]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers published in Turkey, Turkish-language newspapers, Istanbul

Cumhuriyet (English: The Republic) is a Turkish nationwide daily newspaper based in Istanbul. It was founded on May 7, 1924 by Yunus Nadi Abalıoğlu.

Cumhuriyet newspaper includes columnists that are generally considered to share social democratic, secularist and republican ideas with its readers. Cumhuriyet is sold about 60,000 everyday.

İlhan Selçuk, the editor of Cumhuriyet arrested by police after the conservative-Islamic government party AKP has wanted to closed.

[[Uludag University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey, Bursa

Uludag University is a Turkish university. It is in Turkey's fourth largest city, Bursa. Before 1980 its name was Bursa University, but in 1980 the name changed to Uludag University. Uludag is the name of the highest mountain in Bursa. Uludag University is a public university. The university has a big campus in Görükle village outside of the city.

[[Osmangazi University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey

Osmangazi University is a university in Eskişehir, Turkey.

[[ERASMUS programme]]

CATEGORIES: European Union, Academia

The Erasmus Programme is a European Union project to help students and university teachers move among EU countries and Turkey, Norway and Switzerland. Its name stands for "European Community Action Scheme for the Mobility of University Students". The name is also in honor of the humanist Desiderius Erasmus.

[[National Gallery of Art]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 establishments in the United States, Museums in Washington, D.C., Buildings on the National Mall, Art museums in the United States, National museums, 20th-century establishments in Washington, D.C.

The National Gallery of Art is an art museum on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. The museum was built in 1938 by the United States Congress. Andrew W. Mellon gave money and art to help the museum. Many lovers of art have given the National Gallery their art collections, like Lessing J. Rosenwald, Samuel H. Kress, and Joseph E. Widener. This has made the National Gallery one of the best art museums for Western art painting and sculpture in the world.

[[1999 İzmit earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 disasters, 1999 in Asia, Earthquakes in Asia, Earthquakes in the 1990s, 20th century in Turkey, August events

The 1999 İzmit earthquake was an approximately 7.4 magnitude earthquake that struck northwestern Turkey on August 17, 1999. It happened at around 3:01 am local time. The event lasted for 37 seconds, killing 15,135 people and leaving approximately half a million people homeless. The epicenter was in İzmit, which was heavily damaged and where most of the deaths and injuries occurred.

After the earthquake, international support came to the area including former United States President Bill Clinton who visited the people who had been affected from the quake in Adapazarı. The quake also caused damage and the deaths of hundreds of people in Istanbul.

[[Andrew W. Mellon]]

CATEGORIES: American philanthropists, Bankers, Businesspeople from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Politicians from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States Secretaries of the Treasury, US Republican Party politicians, 1855 births, 1937 deaths

Andrew William Mellon (March 24, 1855 – August 27, 1937) was an American banker who also owned many industrial businesses. He was the Secretary of the Treasury from March 4, 1921 until February 12, 1932.

[[Taksim Square]]

CATEGORIES: Istanbul, National squares

Taksim Square is an area in Beyoğlu, Istanbul, Turkey. Sometimes it is called the heart of Istanbul. On 1 May 1977 at a Labour Day celebration, there were more than 500,000 people in the square.

Taksim Square has a Republican Monument which was built in 1928.

[[Street market]]

CATEGORIES: Retail markets

A street market is an open-air market. Generally in an open-air market clothing, fruits and vegetables are sold. In Greece and Turkey, as well as in the Netherlands, street markets stands in several days weekly.

[[Reflecting pool]]

CATEGORIES: Bodies of water, Architectural elements, Gardening

A reflecting pool or reflection pool is a pool of water that is in many memorials.  It is usually shallow and calm, so that a visitor can see a reflection of the memorial in the water.  Visitors are also supposed to think about what the memorial means while looking at the pool.  This is also called reflecting.  

The most famous reflecting pool is the one leading up to the Taj Mahal in Agra, India. Other famous reflecting pools are the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool and the pool in front of the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C., U.S.A.

[[Bozcaada]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Turkey

Bozcaada is an island in Aegean Sea. It is the third largest island of Turkey.  Bozcaada is also a district of Çanakkale Provience.  Bozcaada has 2,500 inhabitants.  The main economical activities are tourism and fishing.  The island is well known for its grapes and wines.

[[Heybeliada]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Turkey

Heybeliada is an island in Sea of Marmara in Turkey. It is officially a part of Adalar district of Istanbul. Heybeliada has an old Orthodox Christian Theology School, started in 1844. However this school was closed because of Turkish laws on secularism in 1971. These laws on the separation of church and state have also closed all Muslim Theology schools. Turkey and the Eurpean Union are looking at ways to reopen this school again. However to do this, the government must prepare a new laws that do not conflict with secularism.

[[Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool]]

CATEGORIES: National Mall, Monuments and memorials in the United States, Washington, D.C.

The Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool is the biggest reflecting pool in Washington, D.C. It is right next to the Lincoln Memorial.  The reflecting pool is long and can be seen in many photographs of the Washington Monument. There are paths and trees on both sides, and many people exercise around it.  It reflects both the Washington Monument and the Lincoln Memorial, which means that you can see both if you look into the water.

It is on the west side of the National Mall, and is about 2,029 feet (618 m) long and 167 feet (51 m) wide. It is about 18 inches (46 cm) deep on the sides and 30 inches (76 cm) deep in the middle. It holds approximately 6,750,000 U.S. gallons (25,500,000 L) of water.

[[Gebze]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Gebze is an industrial town in the provience Kocaeli, Turkey.  It is the largest industrial area of Kocaeli.  There is a project to build the İzmit Bay Bridge to connect Yalova and Gebze.

[[Alanya]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Alanya is a seaside resort in the south of Turkey and also a district of Antalya. Alanya has 300,000 permanent inhabitants. In summer, lots of tourists come to town for beach and sun. In summer, the population rises suddenly. Alanya has 10,000 European inhabitants and the number of European inhabitants rises year to year.

[[Sezen Aksu]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Turkish singers

September 2012

Sezen Aksu (born 13 July 1954) is a Turkish pop singer, songwriter and producer. She is popular in Turkey and outside of the country. She has sold over 40 million albums. She is called Queen of the Turkish pop.

She supports other singers with working together or writing songs for them. She has worked with Turkish singer Tarkan.

[[Imrali]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Turkey, Prisons

Imrali is an island in the Marmara Sea in Turkey. There is only a jail in the island and no other buildings. Abdullah Öcalan is imprisoned there since 1999. Adnan Menderes the former prime minister of Turkey was executed there in 1961.

[[The Backyardigans]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 television series debuts, Children's television series, Nickelodeon television series

The Backyardigans is a Canadian-American animated musical TV series created by Janice Burgess aired on Nickelodeon from October 11, 2004 to July 12, 2013 in the United States.

[[Hatirla Sevgili]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 television series debuts, Turkish television series, 2008 television series endings, 2000s establishments in Turkey

Hatirla Sevgili is a Turkish television series.  It aired from October 27, 2006 to June 6, 2008. Hatirla Sevgili broadcast on the television channel ATV.

It tells the story of the love between Yasemin and Ahmet, two young people from opposing families.  It also tells the relationship between their relatives and friends in the political era starting at the end of the 1950s in Turkey.  Real historical events are shown, beginning with Prime Minister Adnan Menderes' 1959 plane crash survival.  This is followed by the 1960 military coup, the trial on Yassıada and the executions.  These important events divided Turkish society afterwards.

Hatırla Sevgili became one of the most popular and most controversial TV series in Turkey. Some people did not like it because of the superficial coverage of some historical events. Books about the historical periods portrayed and people mentioned in the series became bestsellers for at least two weeks after the episodes about them were aired.

[[ATV Turkey]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish media

ATV is a Turkish television channel that broadcasts nationwide. It was founded in 1993. Avrupa Yakası is one of the popular sitcoms broadcast on ATV.

[[ATV]]

ATV could mean:

Television channels and stations:

Other TV-related:

[[Bodrum]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Bodrum is a tourist resort in Turkey. It is in western Turkey along the Aegean Sea. Thousands of tourists come every year for sun and beach tourism. It has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Koeppen climate classification).

Famous singer Zeki Müren died in Bodrum. Herodotus, an Ancient Greek Historian, lived in Bodrum. Turgut Reis was a Bodrumer who was an Ottoman admiral.

[[Phenomenology]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical movements and positions

Phenomenology is a way of thinking about ourselves. Instead of asking about what we really are, it focuses on phenomena. These are experiences that we get from the senses - what we see, taste, smell, touch, hear, and feel. Phenomenology does not ask if what we are seeing is actually there: for example it is not where we see an object (whether in real life, a dream or a hallucination) that is important, but it is the significance of the object that is important to the phenomenologist. It also does not ask if we are missing something, or if we have all the facts. Instead, phenomenologists (those who do phenomenology) believe we should look at the world just as it appears to us. 

Martin Heidegger, a famous phenomenologist, said that philosophers should be looking at how we live in our "average everydayness."  In his book Being and Time, he uses many examples of how people live in their normal lives. Jean-Paul Sartre did the same in his book Being and Nothingness. For example, he writes about meeting a friend at a cafe. However, the friend, named Pierre, never shows up. Sartre writes that he can feel the absence of Pierre in the cafe. Because of this, he says that non-Pierre (or the lack of Pierre) is something that exists, at least for him. It exists because he can feel it.

[[Dalaman]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Dalaman is a town in southwestern Turkey. It is a district of Mugla Province.  Dalaman has an international airport, Dalaman International Airport, which serves a gateway to tourists who are coming Mugla and the surrounding area.

[[Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Turkey, Istanbul, Steel bridges, Transport in Turkey

Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge (also known as Second Bosphorus Bridge) is a bridge between Asia and Europe in Istanbul, Turkey.  The bridge carries 8 lanes of E80 (European Route) that spans across the Bosporus strait. It is 1,510 m long.

[[Marmaray]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Turkey, Istanbul

Marmaray is a transport project in the city of Istanbul in Turkey. It connects the European and Asian sides of the city by an railway tunnel under the Bosphorus.

[[Atatürk International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Europe, Buildings and structures in Turkey, Transport in Turkey

Atatürk International Airport (formerly Yesilkoy International Airport) is the major international airport in Turkey. It is in the European part of Istanbul. In 2010, about 32 million passengers used Atatürk Airport. It was the 8th busiest airport in Europe in 2010.

The airport has three terminals – Terminal 1 for international passengers, 2 for domestic passengers, and 3 for cargo.

Atatürk Airport has three runways - runways 3000x45m (17L/35R & 17R/35L) and runway 2600x60m (05/23).

To get to the city center from Istanbul Atatürk Airport (IST), there is a light rail service, airport shuttle service, municipal buses, taxi, or hire cars.

[[Marmara University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Turkey

Marmara University is a high-educational institution in the Asian part of Istanbul.

[[Kemal Sunal]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2000 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Disease-related deaths in Turkey, Turkish actors

Kemal Sunal (1944–2000) was a Turkish actor. He played Şaban, a character, in several movies. Generally his characters comes from middle-working class so the audience can understand how the working class lived when the movie was made. He died in 2000 of a heart attack on a plane in Turkey. He has a daughter named Ezo Sunal and a son named Ali Sunal who is an actor too.

[[Adile Naşit]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish actors, 1930 births, 1987 deaths

Adile Naşit (June 17, 1930 – December 11, 1987) was a Turkish movie actress. She played in many Turkish movies. Her nickname was Hafize Ana (meaning Hafize name, Ana mother) and was a character she played in movies.

[[Barilla Group]]

CATEGORIES: 1877 establishments in Europe, Food companies of Italy, 19th century establishments in Italy

Barilla Group is a large Italian food company that makes pasta. They are the world's leading pasta maker. Barilla also provides pasta products to restaurants worldwide. They are the leading seller of bakery products in Italy. By purchasing the Swedish bakery company Wasabröd, they became the leading producer of flatbread in the world.

[[Moda]]

CATEGORIES: Districts in Istanbul

Moda is a district in Kadıköy, Istanbul. Barış Manço pop singer lived here. Moda has a coast suitable for jogging. From Moda coast the beautiful image of Bosphorus can be seen.

[[Chinese poker]]

CATEGORIES: Poker

Chinese Poker is a poker variant that came from Asia. It is also called Russian Poker. It is usually played with two to four players; each player is dealt 13 cards, and then needs to create 3 poker hands from his cards.

The third hand must be the best hand (by the standard poker rankings). The third had must be better than the second hand. The second hand must be better than the first hand (the one with the 3 cards in it).

[[City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra]]

CATEGORIES: British orchestras

The City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra (CBSO) is one of the leading British orchestras. It is based in the Symphony Hall, Birmingham, England. It became particularly famous during the years when it was conducted by Sir Simon Rattle.

The orchestra was founded in 1920 by Neville Chamberlain, the man who later became Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. At that time it was called City of Birmingham Orchestra. Appleby Matthews conducted its first concert. In November of the same year the composer Edward Elgar conducted the orchestra in a programme of his own music in Birmingham Town Hall. Adrian Boult was chief conductor from 1924 to 1930.

[[Egon Krenz]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, German criminals, German prisoners, Members of the Volkskammer, People from former German territories, Presidents of East Germany

Egon Krenz (born 19 March 1937 in Kolberg) was a politician of the German Democratic Republic. He served in the East German Army, NVA (Nationale Volkes Armee), where he attained the rank of Unteroffizere (Corporal). He was a high-ranking member of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany. He was the successor to Erich Honecker as leader of East Germany from 18 October 1989 until 3 December 1989, for a few weeks. Later, he was sentenced to six and a half years in prison and released in 2003.

[[Berlin Friedrichstraße]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Berlin, Railway stations in Germany

Berlin Friedrichstraße (bɛɐˈliːn ˈfʁiːdʁɪçˌʃtʁaːsə) is a railway station in the center of Berlin. It has regional and suburban railways connections. During the times of East Germany, it was the only station served by some underground lines from West Berlin.

[[Peyton Manning]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Sportspeople from New Orleans, Louisiana, American football quarterbacks

Peyton Williams Manning (born March 24, 1976) is a retired American football quarterback. He played college football at University of Tennessee  and a total of 18 seasons in the National Football League (NFL). Manning was with the Indianapolis Colts for 14 seasons and his last 4 seasons was with the Denver Broncos. Many people think that Peyton Manning is one of the best quarterbacks in National Football League history. He joined the team in 1998 when he was drafted ahead of Ryan Leaf, who was a bust. Peyton is the son of former NFL quarterback Archie Manning and the older brother of former New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning. 

Manning has been in many television commercials. He has represented Papa Johns and Nationwide. He has also had his picture on the covers of some video games for the Xbox, and was on an episode of Saturday Night Live. Manning has also made a lot donations to charities and he has his own charitable group, called the Peyback foundation.

On February 4, 2007, Manning led the Indianapolis Colts to a victory over the Chicago Bears in Super Bowl XLI. He was called the Most Valuable Player of that game. Manning was released by the Colts after missing all of the 2011 season with a neck injury. He signed with the Denver Broncos. Manning is also famous for his yelling and pointing before the snap while making last-second changes.

Peyton's father Archie Manning and brother Eli Manning have also played quarterback, but Peyton is the most successful.

Peyton Manning became the second quarterback after Brett Favre to beat the other 32 teams, after the Denver Broncos defeated the Indianapolis Colts (Manning's former team), in their season opener.  He is one of the 3 quarterbacks who defeated the other 31 teams after Tom Brady and Brett Favre.

On March 7, 2016, Manning announced that he was retiring from professional football.

[[Statue of Freedom]]

CATEGORIES: Washington, D.C.

The Statue of Freedom is a statue of a woman that is on top of the United States Capitol.  It was made in 1863 by Thomas Crawford.  The woman is a symbol - she was not an actual person but stands for the idea of freedom.  She is holding a shield and a laurel wreath in one hand.  In the other hand, she is holding a sword that is sheathed (in its case).

The statue stands on the peak of the dome, beckoning ideas and statutes that will be for the good of America and humanity.

[[Murray River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Victoria (Australia), Rivers of New South Wales, Rivers of South Australia

The Murray River is the largest river in Australia. It starts high in the Snowy Mountains and flows mainly west until it gets to the sea near Goolwa, South Australia. 

For much of its length it forms the boundary between Victoria and New South Wales. Other rivers join the Murray, the Darling River, the Lachlan River, the Murrumbidgee River and the Goulburn River.

[[Buffer solution]]

CATEGORIES: Acids

A buffer solution is chemical solution which resists change to its pH or acidity.

It is a solution in water of a mixture of a weak acid or base and its salt. The pH of the solution changes very little when a small amount of strong acid or base is added to it. Buffer solutions are used as a means of keeping pH at a nearly constant value in a wide variety of chemical applications. Many life forms have a relatively small pH range; an example of a buffer solution is blood.

Buffer solutions may be of two types: acidic and basic.

eg. CH3COOH+CH3COONa

eg. NH4OH+NH4Cl

If you add acid to the solution, the concentration of H+ ions will increase; to keep equilibrium a small number of ions will be combined (forming salt and reducing the concentration of H+ ion in the solution). If you add base the concentration of H+ ion will reduce (by consumption  or combining) and so a small amount of salt will break into ions and maintain the pH.

Buffer index is the number of moles of acid or base added to 1 litre of buffer solution to change its ph by 1 unit

[[Hamilton Hume]]

CATEGORIES: 1797 births, 1893 deaths, Australian explorers, Exploration of Australia, People from Sydney

Hamilton Hume (19 June 1797 – 19 April 1873) was the first Australian born explorer.

Hume was born near Parramatta, a town close to (and now a part of) Sydney. His father was Andrew Hamilton Hume, who came to Australia in 1790 in charge of convicts (prisoners) and later became a farmer.

At 17 he began exploring the Sydney area, and went as far as Berrima. On these journeys Hume learned how to live safely in the bush (the area far from the cities). In March 1817 he went on a journey with James Meehan, the deputy surveyor-general, and came to Lake Bathurst and the Goulburn Plains. Later he went with John Oxley and Meehan to Jervis Bay, and in 1822 was with a group which sailed in a boat down the east coast of New South Wales looking for rivers.

[[Azad Kashmir]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 establishments, Autonomous areas, Azad Kashmir, Territorial disputes, Territories of Pakistan

The State of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, (آزاد جموں اور کشمیر پاکستان) also called Azad Kashmir is Indian territory illegally ocuupied by Pakistan. In terms of land area it is bigger than Trinidad and Tobago but smaller than Brunei.

Pakistani region of Gilgit Baltistan is to the north, while the Indian Administered disputed territory of Occupied Jammu and Kashmir (IOK) is to the east which is the region of dispute between Pakistan and Held by Indian military armed occupational forces. Pakistani province Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is west of it, and the Pakistani province of Punjab is south of it.

The capital city of Azad Kashmir is Muzaffarabad. Azad Jammu and Kashmir has an area of 5,134 mi² (13,297 km²). The inhabitants of this region are  Kashmiri citizens of ethnic Pahari origin. About 4 million people live there.

[[Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s treaties, Nuclear weapons, 1968, 1970, 1970s treaties

The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (or NNPT) is a treaty that was made to stop nuclear weapons from being built. It was written in 1968, entered into force in 1970, and 190 countries have signed it since then. Only four nations have not signed it: India, Israel, Pakistan South Sudan. North Korea withdrew in 2003. 

[[Cyndi Lauper]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from New York City, Singer-songwriters from New York, Emmy Award winners, Grammy Award winners, 1953 births, Living people

Cynthia Ann Stephanie "Cyndi" Lauper (born June 22, 1953) is an American Grammy Award-winning singer, songwriter, and MTV VMA-winning video and Emmy Award-winning movie, television and theater actress. She became very well known in the mid-1980s with the release of the album, She's So Unusual. Lauper became the first artist in history to have four top-five singles released from one album. She has released 11 albums, over 40 singles, and has sold more than 60 million albums worldwide.  She continues to tour the world in support of human rights.

[[Dutch East Indies]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 disestablishments in Asia, History of Indonesia, History of the Netherlands, States and territories disestablished in the 20th century

The Dutch East Indies, or Netherlands East Indies, was the Dutch colony that is now modern Indonesia. The main city was Batavia, now called Jakarta.

It was made from the colonies of the Dutch East India Company that came under the control of the Netherlands in 1800. During World War II it was part of the Japanese Empire. In 1945 the Japanese left, and Indonesian leaders made a declaration of independence. They fought a war of independence until the Netherlands gave Indonesia sovereignty in December 1949.

[[Dutch East India Company]]

CATEGORIES: 1602 establishments, Companies of Europe, 1800 disestablishments, 1600s establishments in Europe, Establishments in Indonesia, 1600s establishments in Asia, 17th century establishments in the Netherlands, 1800s disestablishments in Europe, 1800s disestablishments in Asia

The Dutch East India Company (Vereenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie or VOC in old Dutch), started in 1602, when the Netherlands gave a group of small trading companies a 21-year monopoly to trade in Asia. It was the first multinational corporation in the world and the first company to issue stock. The VOC had the power to start wars, make treaties, make its own money, and start new colonies.

It was an important company for almost 200 years until it became bankrupt in 1800. The VOC's colonies became the Dutch East Indies which later became Indonesia.

[[Mika Häkkinen]]

CATEGORIES: Finnish racecar drivers, Formula One drivers, 1968 births, Living people, Vantaa

Mika Pauli Häkkinen (born September 28, 1968 in Helsingin maalaiskunta) is a Finnish racing driver and two-time Formula One champion. He was Michael Schumacher's greatest rival in F1 from 1998–2000. Schumacher has said that Häkkinen is the rival he respected the most during his Formula One career. 

[[Cape York]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Queensland, Capes

Cape York is the northernmost point of Australia. It was named by Lieutenant James Cook in 1770 after the Duke of York. From the tip, it is about 160 km to New Guinea across the islands, coral reefs and sand banks of Torres Strait.

[[North West Cape]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Western Australia, Capes

North West Cape is a large piece of land on the north west coast of Western Australia. There are mountains called the Cape Range through the middle of the peninsula and Ningaloo Reef is on the western edge. The town of Exmouth is also on the North West Cape.

In 1618, Dutch East India Company captain Lenaert Jacobszoon and Willem Janszoon from the boat Mauritius landed in the area. Phillip Parker King visited in 1818 and named it North West Cape. He also named Exmouth Gulf after a Royal Navy officer, Edward Pellew, First Viscount Exmouth (1758 -1833). 

Later, pearl boats visited the area from Broome. 

[[Baja California Sur]]

CATEGORIES: Baja California Sur, States of Mexico

Baja California Sur is a state of Mexico. It is on the Baja California peninsula. Its capital is La Paz. About 500,000 people live there. Its name means "South Lower California".

[[Nelson Piquet]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Brazilian sportspeople, Formula One drivers

Nelson Piquet Souto Maior (born August 17, 1952), more commonly known as Nelson Piquet, is a Brazilian racing driver who was Formula One world champion in 1981, 1983, and 1987. He is one of the few men to win at least three world championships in the history of Formula One. The others are Jack Brabham, Jackie Stewart, Niki Lauda, Ayrton Senna (3 each), Alain Prost (4), Juan Manuel Fangio (5), Lewis Hamilton (7) and Michael Schumacher (7).

[[Baby boomer]]

CATEGORIES: Cultural anthropology, Time People of the Year

The term baby boomer most commonly refers to people born during the years 1946 to 1964 worldwide. In Canada it is anyone born between 1960 and 1980. Australia identifies baby boomers as those born between 1946 and 1961. Generally, after 1960 the birth rate started falling. In 1951, Sylvia F. Porter, a columnist for the New York Post, first used the term baby boom for the rapid rise in birthrate after Word War II.

[[Jack Brabham]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2014 deaths, Australian racecar drivers, Deaths from liver failure, Disease-related deaths in Queensland, Formula One drivers, Sportspeople from Sydney

Sir John Arthur "Jack" Brabham, AO, OBE (2 April 1926 – 19 May 2014) was an Australian racing driver who was Formula One champion in 1959, 1960 and 1966. He won the Australian Grand Prix in 1955, 1963 and 1964. He was a founder of the Brabham racing team and race car builder that carried his name.

In 2000 the Australian Government gave him the Australian Sports Medal, and in 2001 he was given the Australian Centenary Medal for services to motor sport.

Brabham died at his home on the Gold Coast, Queensland on 19 May 2014 from liver failure, aged 88.

[[Team Lotus]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors

Team Lotus was the motorsport sister company of English sports car manufacturer Lotus Cars. The team ran cars in many motorsport series including Formula One, Formula Two, Formula Ford, Formula Junior, IndyCar and sports car racing. More than ten years after its last race Team Lotus remains one of the most successful racing teams of all time, winning seven Formula One Constructors' titles, six Drivers' Championships, and the Indianapolis 500 in the United States, between 1962 and 1978. Under the direction of founder and Chief Designer Colin Chapman Lotus was responsible for many innovative and experimental developments in motorsport, in both technical and commercial arenas. In 2010 Lotus has returned to F1 as Lotus Racing.

[[WilliamsF1]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors, Formula One current

WilliamsF1, the trading name of Williams Grand Prix Engineering Ltd., is a Formula One (F1) motor racing team and constructor. It was founded and run by Sir Frank Williams and Patrick Head. The team was formed in 1977 after two earlier and, compared with WilliamsF1's achievements, unsuccessful F1 operations, Frank Williams Racing Cars and Walter Wolf Racing. All of WilliamsF1 chassis are called "FW" then a number, the FW being the initials of team owner, Frank Williams.

Williams' first race was the 1978 Argentine Grand Prix, and Switzerland's Clay Regazzoni won Williams' first race at the 1979 British Grand Prix. At the 1997 British Grand Prix, Canadian Jacques Villeneuve won the team's 100th race, making Williams one of only three teams in Formula One, alongside Ferrari and fellow British team McLaren, to win 100 races. Williams won nine Constructor's titles between 1980 and 1997. This stood as a record until Ferrari surpassed it in 2000.

Many famous racing drivers have driven for Williams, including Finland's Keke Rosberg; Britain's Nigel Mansell and Damon Hill; France's Alain Prost and Brazil's Nelson Piquet and Ayrton Senna, and Canada's Jacques Villeneuve, each of whom, with the exception of Senna, have captured one Drivers' title with the team. After Senna died in a Williams car in a crash at the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix, Frank Williams, Patrick Head and designer Adrian Newey were all accused of manslaughter. The trial finally closed in 2005, when Williams, Head and Newey were all cleared of any wrongdoing.

Williams have worked with many notable engine manufacturers, most successfully with Renault: Williams won five of their nine constructors' titles with the French company. Along with Ferrari, McLaren, and Renault (formerly Benetton), Williams is one of the "Big Four" teams that have won every constructors' championship since 1979 and every driver's championship since 1984. Williams remains the only one independently owned, as the other three are "factory teams" either setup or bought out by major auto manufacturers. 

[[Benetton Formula]]

CATEGORIES: Formula One constructors

Benetton Formula Ltd., commonly referred to simply as Benetton, was a Formula One constructor that participated from 1986 to 2001. The team was owned by the Benetton family who run a worldwide chain of clothing stores of the same name. In 2000 the team was purchased by Renault, but competed as Benetton for the 2001 season. In 2002 the team became Renault F1.

The team won 27 races, as well as the 1994 and 1995 Drivers' Championship (with Michael Schumacher) and the 1995 Constructors' Championship.

[[Umayyad Caliphate]]

CATEGORIES: Former countries in Africa, Former countries in Europe, Former countries in Asia, Royal dynasties, 661 establishments, 750 disestablishments, 7th-century establishments in Africa, Establishments in Europe, 7th-century establishments in Asia, Disestablishments in Africa, Disestablishments in Europe, Disestablishments in Asia, Medieval Azerbaijan

The Umayyad Caliphate was the second of the four major Islamic caliphates established after the death of Muhammad.

It was the largest empire in the world at the time. It is the fifth largest empire in history.

It was ruled by the Umayyad Dynasty (بنو أمية, Banu Umayyah) who came from Mecca, in present-day Saudi Arabia. Damascus was the capital from 661–744, Harrran from 744–750, and in exile their capital was Córdoba (756–1031).

[[Surprise (emotion)]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Surprise is an emotion that a person might feel if something unexpected happens. For example, a person may feel surprised at a loud, sudden noise, like the popping of a balloon, or they may feel surprised at the outcome of an event. The feeling of surprise can be both good or bad, depending on the circumstances.

[[Surprise party]]

CATEGORIES: Birthdays, Parties

A surprise party is a party thrown for someone who does not know that it has been planned. Surprise parties can leave people feeling happy, because someone has made the effort to organize it for them.

[[2003–04 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in ice hockey, 2004 in ice hockey

The 2003–04 NHL season was the 87th regular season of the National Hockey League. The thirty teams played 82 games in a new format that increased divisional games from 5 to 6 per team (30 total), conference games from 3 to 4 (32 total), and decreased inter-conference games to at least one per team, with three extra games (18 in total). 

The Stanley Cup winners were the Tampa Bay Lightning, who won the best of seven series 4–3 against the Calgary Flames. This was the first season since the 1969–70 season that teams would wear their dark jerseys at home. For the fourth time in eight years, the all-time record for total shutouts in a season was shattered, as 192 shutouts were recorded. The 2003–04 regular season was also the first one (excluding the lockout-shortened regular season of 1994–95) since 1967–68 in which there was neither a 50-goal scorer, nor a 100-point scorer.

This was the final season that ABC and ESPN televised NHL games. It was also the final NHL season before the 2004–05 NHL lockout, and the final season in which games could end in ties.

[[London Stansted Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in England, Uttlesford

London Stansted Airport STN is a large passenger airport in the Uttlesford District of the English county of Essex about 30 miles (48 km) northeast of London. It is about 2 outside Bishop's Stortford and 6 outside Harlow.

Stansted is a hub for a number of major European low-cost carriers. It is the fourth busiest airport in the United Kingdom and is the third largest airport serving the London area after Heathrow and Gatwick; and is one of London's five international airports along with Luton and London City Airports. Stansted is owned and operated by Manchester Airports Group, which also owns and operates three other UK airports, including Manchester and Bournemouth.

The airport had to abandon plans for a second runway after the campaign Stop Stansted Expansion succeeded.

[[London Gatwick Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in England

London Gatwick Airport LGW is London's second largest airport and the second busiest airport in the United Kingdom after Heathrow. It is the world's 22nd busiest airport in terms of passengers per year (7th in terms of international passengers). It is also often quoted as the world's busiest single runway airport, although strictly speaking it now has a second 'stand-by' runway, which can only be used when the main runway is out of use. 

[[2002–03 NHL season]]

The 2002–03 NHL season was the 86th regular season of the National Hockey League. Thirty teams each played 82 games. The Stanley Cup winners were the New Jersey Devils, who won the best of seven series 4–3 against the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim. This was the last season before the NHL switched home and away jerseys.

[[Heathrow Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in England, London Borough of Hillingdon

London Heathrow Airport, or Heathrow, is the main, and busiest airport serving the United Kingdom. Heathrow is also Europe's busiest airport for passenger traffic, and handles more international passenger traffic than any other airport in the world. 

Heathrow is owned and operated by BAA Limited, which also owns/operates six other UK airports and is itself owned by an international group led by the Spanish Ferrovial Group. Heathrow is the main hub of British Airways and Virgin Atlantic.

Heathrow is in the London Borough of Hillingdon, 15 west of Central London, England, Heathrow has two parallel main runways running east-west and five terminals. The site covers 12.14 square kilometres (4.69 square miles). Terminal 5 was officially opened by Queen Elizabeth II on 14 March 2008 and opened to passengers on 27 March 2008. Terminal 2 opened in 2014, and Terminals 3 and 4 will be refurbished during this period. In November 2007 a consultation process began for the building of a new third runway.

Heathrow Airport has a CAA Public Use Aerodrome Licence (Number P527) that allows flights for the public transport of passengers or for flying instruction.

[[London Luton Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in England, Luton

London Luton Airport LTN (previously called Luton International Airport) is an international airport on the edge of the town of Luton, Bedfordshire, England approximately 30 north of London.  The airport is 2 miles (3 km) from junction 10a of the M1 motorway. It is the fourth largest airport serving the London area after Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted and is one of London's five international airports along with London City Airport.

In 2007, total passengers at London Luton increased by 5.3% to 9,927,321  making it the fifth busiest airport in the UK.  The airport serves as a hub for easyJet, TUI, Wizz Air and Ryanair. Most of the routes served are within Europe.

London Luton Airport is widely known as a result of the Airline and Luton Airport television series.

[[2000–01 NHL season]]

The 2000–01 NHL season was the 84th regular season of the National Hockey League. Thirty teams each played 82 games. The Stanley Cup winners were the Colorado Avalanche, who won the best of seven series 4–3 against the New Jersey Devils. The focus of Colorado's Stanley Cup run was on defenceman Raymond Bourque who was on a quest to win his first Stanley Cup championship in his 22-year career.

[[London City Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in England

London City Airport  is a single-runway airport, intended for use by STOL (short take-off and landing) planes, mainly serving the financial districts of London. It is on a former Docklands site, in the London Borough of Newham in East London. It is near Canary Wharf and the O2 arena in an area called Silvertown.

The airport serves European destinations, though there is one flight to New York JFK airport.

The airport has tough rules to limit the noise from aircraft operations. This limits the aircraft types that can be used, and so does the length of the runway and the steep glideslope. The steep 5.5 degree approache requires special training for crew. Only multi-engine, fixed-wing aircraft with special crew and aircraft certification can operate at London City Airport. London City Airport has a CAA Public Use Aerodrome Licence (Number P728). 

London City Airport was developed by the engineering company Mowlem in 1986/87. It is the fifth-largest international airport in size serving the London area, after Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted and Luton. London City Airport claims lower check-in times than any other airport in London.

The airport has produced a master plan outlining their vision for growth up to 2030. The plan shows a phased expansion of the airport to a maximum capacity of 8 million passengers per annum, without the addition of a second runway, or significant expansion of the current airport boundaries.

London City Airport was purchased in October 2006 by a consortium comprising AIG Financial Products Corp. and Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP) for an undisclosed sum. Speculation suggests the sale was valued at over £750 million. In 2007, London City Airport had 2.9 million passengers; by 2017 this had risen to 4,530,439.

[[1999–2000 NHL season]]

The 1999–2000 NHL season was the 83rd regular season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-eight teams each played 82 games. The New Jersey Devils defeated the defending champion Dallas Stars for their second Stanley Cup championship. During the regular season, no player reached the 100-point plateau - the first time this had happened in a non-lockout season since 1967-68.

[[Bob]]

Bob may mean:

In acronyms:

In fictional characters:

[[International Opium Convention]]

CATEGORIES: International law, Drugs, The Hague

The International Opium Convention was the first drug control treaty (or agreement).  It was signed at The Hague in The Netherlands on January 23, 1912.  The United States organised a conference between 13 countries called the International Opium Commission in 1909 in Shanghai, China because people complained more and more about opium trade. The treaty was signed by Germany, the United States, China, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, Persia, Portugal, Russia, and Siam. The Convention said that "The contracting Powers shall use their best endeavours to control, or to cause to be controlled, all persons manufacturing, importing, selling, distributing, and exporting morphine, cocaine, and their respective salts, as well as the buildings in which these persons carry such an industry or trade."

The Convention was implemented in 1915 by the United States, Netherlands, China, Honduras, and Norway. It went into force around the world in 1919 when it became part of the Treaty of Versailles.

A modified International Opium Convention was signed on February 19, 1925, which started on September 25, 1928. It introduced control system to be looked after by a Permanent Central Opium Board, part of the League of Nations. Egypt, with support from 

China and United States, recommended that a ban on hashish be added to the Convention.

India and other countries did not agree, saying social and religious customs and that wild-growing cannabis plants being available in many places, that would make it difficult to enforce, so this never made it into the final treaty. A compromise was made that banned the export of Indian hemp to countries that have banned its use.  Importing countries were made to issue certificates approving the import and stating that the shipment was required "exclusively for medical or scientific purposes." It also required Parties to "exercise an effective control of such a nature as to prevent the illicit international traffic in Indian hemp and especially in the resin." These restrictions still made it easy for countries to allow production, internal trade, and use of cannabis for recreational purposes.

The Convention was superseded by the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.

[[Coleoidea]]

CATEGORIES: Cephalopods

The Coleoidea are a group of mollusks making up most of the living cephalopods. Octopus, squid, and cuttlefish are all members of the Coleoidea. They do not have shells on the outside, but some do have a bone or shell inside. All Coleoidea live in the ocean.  

[[1998–99 NHL season]]

The 1998–99 NHL season was the 82nd regular season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-seven teams played 82 games each. 

The Dallas Stars finished first in regular season play. They won the Stanley Cup Championship over the Buffalo Sabres with a disputed overtime goal by Brett Hull. 

Goaltenders continued to rule the league; only two teams, the Toronto Maple Leafs and the New Jersey Devils, averaged more than three goals scored per game. In addition, no player reached the 50-goal plateau. A total of 160 shutouts were recorded for the second-straight regular season.

[[Bagh District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Azad Kashmir

Bagh District (ضلع باغ) is one of the eight districts of Azad Kashmir, Pakistan. The district, which had been part of Poonch District, was created in 1988. The district is bordered by Muzaffarabad District to the north, by Punjab in the east. It also borders the divided district of Poonch, to the south is the Poonch District of Azad Kashmir and to the east is the Poonch District of India's Jammu and Kashmir state. The total area of the district is 1,368 square kilometers. Bagh District is linked to Muzaffarabad by two roads, one via Sudhan Gali (80 km) and the other through Kohala (97 km). It is 46 km from Rawalakot. The district is well known for its confectionery and bakery products.

[[Bhimber District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Azad Kashmir

Bhimber (ضلع بھمبر) is the southernmost of the eight districts of Azad Kashmir, the district is between Latitude: 32-48 to 33-34 and Longitude: 73.55 to 74-45, and has an area of 1516 km². The chief town is Bhimber

[[Kotli District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Azad Kashmir

Kotli (ضلع کوٹلی) is one of the eight districts of Azad Kashmir, Pakistan. Kotli is the capital city of the district. Kotli used to be a small town between Mirpur and Muzaffarabad, but has recently grown in size.

[[Mirpur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Azad Kashmir

Mirpur District (ضلع میرپور) is a district in Pakistan's Azad Kashmir Liberated Territory. The district is named after the main city - Mirpur. The District of Mirpur comprises mostly plain and some hilly areas. Its hot and dry climate and other geographical conditions closely resemble those of Jhelum and Gujrat, the adjoining Districts of Pakistan.

[[Muzaffarabad District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Azad Kashmir

Muzafarabad district (ضلع مزففرآباد) of Pakistan is on the banks of the Jhelum and the Neelum rivers. The district is bounded to Pakistan in the west and to Kupwara and Baramulla districts of Indian Kashmir in the east and Neelum District fall on the northeast of the district. Total area of the district is 6117 square kilometres. The total population of the district according to the 1998 census was 725,000 and according to 1999 projection its population stands at 741,000. The district is administratively subdivided into three tehsils and fifty one Union Councils. Muzaffarabad city in the district serves as capital of Azad Jammu and Kashmir.

It was part of Muzaffarabad Division.

[[Poonch District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir, Districts of Azad Kashmir

Poonch (ضلع پہہنچھ) District is a district of Kashmir that is divided between Jammu and Kashmir and Pakistan's Azad Kashmir. The Pakistani part of Poonch District is part of its Azad Kashmir territory, whilst Indian Poonch is part of its Jammu and Kashmir.

[[Sudhnoti District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Azad Kashmir

Sudhnoti (ضلع سدھنوتی) is a district of Azad Kashmir in Pakistan.

Sudhnoti was the main site from where struggle against dogras and British imperialists was made. It remained the capital of Azad Kashmir and Jammu before it was shifted to Muzafferabad. It was named Sudhnoti in 2000 as a new district of Azad Kashmir and Jammu in the honour of the Sudhen tribe.

[[Baramulla District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Baramulla (ضلع بارامئللاھ) is a district in Kashmir.

[[Budgam District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Badgam district (ضلع بدگم) is one of the twenty districts in Indian administered Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.

[[Doda District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Doda (ضلع دہدا) is a district of Jammu and Kashmir. It is the third largest district in Jammu and Kashmir after Leh and Kargil.

[[Jammu District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Jammu District (ضلع جموں) is a district in Jammu and Kashmir. 

[[Kargil district]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Kargil is a district in the Indian union territory of Ladakh. Kargil lies near the Line of Control and is surrounded by the Pakistan-administered region of Gilgit–Baltistan to the north, the Kashmir Valley and Jammu divisions to the west, Leh district to the east and Himachal Pradesh to the south. Kargil is divided into 9 blocks which are, Kargil, Drass, Sankoo, Taisuru, Shargole, Shakar-Chiktan, Zanskar, GM Pore/Trespone and Lungnak. It has three Tehsils, namely Kargil, Zanskar and Sankoo. Zanskar and Drass are also sub divisions, and are headed administratively by a Sub Divisional Magistrate.

[[Kupwara District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Kupwara (ضلع کئپوارا) is a district of India. It is in Jammu and Kashmir.

[[Leh District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Leh is one of the two districts in the Indian union territory of Ladakh, the other being the Kargil District to the west. It is bounded on the north by Ghanche District (Northern Areas), a small border with Xinjiang, China, via the Karakoram Pass which is part of the district. Aksai Chin and Tibet is to the east. Kargil district to the west, and lahul and spiti to the south. The district headquarters is based in Leh. It lies between 32 to 36 degree North latitude and 75 to 80 degree East longitude. As of 2001 the district has a population of 117,637.

The whole of Ladakh was under the administration of Leh district until July 1, 1979, when Kargil district was bifurcated from Leh district. About 84% of the district population are followers of Tibetan Buddhism, with much of the remainder being followers of Shi'a Islam, and the rest being Sunni and Nurbakhshi Muslims. Religion has been the source of grievances between Buddhists and Muslims since the late 20th century.

According to the 2001 census Total fertility rate in Leh district is the lowest in all of India at 1.3 per women. In neighbouring Kargil district, TFR is 3.4 The Total Birth Rate was 10.02 per 1000 people in 1995-2000 period. The Natural Growth Rate was 0.62% per year implying a Total Death Rate of 3.78 per 1000 people. The Birth Rate in some remote areas have plummeted to lowest anywhere in the world. For example in the village Diggar in the Nubra Valley, only 5 children were born during 1998-2002 period for a Total population of 700 people, implying a Total Birth Rate of just 1.79 per 1000 people per year. The lowest birth rate recorded is for German city of Cottbus in 2005, with 6.20 births per 1000 people.

[[Pulwama District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Pakistan, Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Pulwama (ضلع پئلواما) is a district in Indian-occupied Kashmir.

[[Rajouri District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir, Tehsils of India

Rajouri (ضلع راجہئری) is a District in Jammu and Kashmir, Kashmir, Pakistan. Since it borders the Republic of India's side of the Line of Control, it is the site of infiltration and militant activity. Rajouri is also notable for the presence of many Gujjar and Bakerwal villages, particularly towards the Pir Panjal mountain range.

The District has 7 Tehsils (towns) namely Rajouri Tehsil, Darhal Tehsil, Nowshera Tehsil, Sunderbani Tehsil, Kalakote Tehsil, Budhal Tehsil and Thannamandi Tehsil and 7 Blocks of Rajouri, Manjakote, Darhal, Budhal, Kalakote, Sunderbani and Nowshera. There is diversity in the religious practices of the residents of these various towns with some being predominantly Hindu and others with Muslim majorities. The presence of militancy has affected the composition in most Muslim majority regions that are closer to the border. In overall, per official 1981 estimates, the population as divided by religion is 58% Muslim, 39% Hindu, 2% Sikh and 1% buddhist. This composition has since likely changed dramatically due to militancy having forced substantial minority communities to the Hindu dominated districts near Jammu. Rajouri district is famous for its local cheez all over the state along with milk product's , one of the famous dish in rajouri is "makki di roti" ( i.e maize bread) ,most of the people's are farmer's and they do subsistence framing ( edited by sachin sharma lpu ).

[[Srinagar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

July 2012

Srinagar (سرینگر) is at the center of the Valley of Kashmir. It is the most populous district in the disputed territory of Jammu and Kashmir, India and is home to the summer capital (Srinagar) of Jammu and Kashmir (the capital moves to Jammu city in the winter). The largest city is Srinagar. It is also home to the scenic Dal Lake, a popular tourist destination.

Srinagar District is made up of two administrative tehsils: North Srinagar and South Srinagar.

[[Udhampur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Jammu and Kashmir

Udhampur (ضلع ئدھامپئر) is a district in Jammu and Kashmir. The town of Udhampur is the headquarters of this district.

The 2001 census indicates the population of the district to be just over 700,000. There are 871 females for every 1000 males in the district. The overall literacy rate is at 54.16%, with 66.43% for males and 39.89% for females. Majority of the population of the district practise Hinduism. Majority are of Dogras in this district.There are a large number of nomadic Gujjar's and Bakarwal's present in the district as well.

The major languages spoken in the district are Dogri, Urdu, and Kashmiri. Kahmiri language used by people migrated from Kashmir known as Kashmiri pandits which are in very good number as well.

[[The Invasion (professional wrestling)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 in professional wrestling, Extreme Championship Wrestling, World Championship Wrestling

The Invasion was a wrestling storyline in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) that began after the WWF bought World Championship Wrestling (WCW). It involved the WCW wrestlers "invading" WWF television to try to "take over" the WWF.

The idea of a match showing the top 2 shows of the Monday Night Wars was considered to be a "dream match" show in the eyes of many fans, because it let fans to see which show would be superior. The storyline began when Vince McMahon's son, Shane McMahon, said on RAW that he bought WCW. This led to many appearances of WCW wrestlers during RAW and SmackDown! after WrestleMania X-Seven.

In June 2001, the storyline got more intense as more WWF storylines ended to make room for the central Invasion storyline. WCW and Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) merged to make The Alliance and challenged the WWF's control over the wrestling industry. An Inaugural Brawl took place at the WWF Invasion pay-per-view, where Stone Cold Steve Austin defected and joined the Alliance. Many inter-promotional matches occurred after the Invasion between The Alliance and the WWF, leading up to the climax of the angle at Survivor Series 2001, when Team WWF (The Rock, Chris Jericho, Big Show, The Undertaker, and Kane) defeated Team Alliance (Stone Cold Steve Austin, Kurt Angle, Rob Van Dam, Booker T, and Shane McMahon) in a Winner-Take-All match.

A very large storyline that went for 5 months from June 2001 to November 2001, the storyline has been heavily criticized.

[[Caliphate]]

CATEGORIES: Caliphates

A caliphate (خِلافة khilāfa) is a state ruled by an Islamic leader known as a caliph (خَليفة ar Ar-khalifa.ogg). This is a person considered a political-religious successor to the Islamic prophet, Muhammad, and a leader of the entire Muslim community.

The Rashidun caliphs directly succeeded Muhammad as leaders of the muslim community. They were chosen through shura, a process of community consultation that some think is an early form of Islamic democracy. During the history of Islam after the Rashidun period, many muslim states, mostly hereditary monarchies, have claimed to be caliphates. Caliphs were not thought of as having the same prophetic power as Muhammid did.

In the Sunni branch of Islam a caliph should be elected by Muslims or their representatives. Followers of Shia Islam, however, believe a caliph should be an imam chosen by God from the Ahl al-Bayt (the "Family of the House", Muhammad's direct descendants).

[[Amphisbaenia]]

CATEGORIES: Scaled reptiles

Amphisbaenia are a suborder of Squamata. 

Amphisbaenians have features that link them to both lizards and snakes, but they have enough of their own features to be a separate suborder. Amphisbaenians can live both above and below the ground. 

There are four families, made up of 18 genera, and about 160 species. 

[[Kaffir]]

Kaffir may be meaning:

[[Karen languages]]

CATEGORIES: Sino-Tibetan languages, Tonal languages

The Karen languages are tonal languages spoken by the Karen people. They are part of the Tibeto-Burman group of the Sino-Tibetan language family.

[[Tropic]]

A tropic may be meaning:

In geography:

In transportation:

[[Kongo language]]

CATEGORIES: Niger-Congo languages, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Angola

Kikongo or Kongo is the Bantu language spoken by the Bakongo and Bandundu people in the tropical forests of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Republic of the Congo and Angola.

[[Latvian language]]

CATEGORIES: Baltic languages

Latvian (latviešu valoda), is the official state language of Latvia. It is also called Lettish and Lettisch. It is estimated, that there are 1.75 million native speakers in Latvia.

The Latvian alphabet has 33 letters. The letters are based on the Latin alphabet. Along with the Lithuanian language, Latvian is the only live Baltic language.

[[Wig]]

CATEGORIES: Headgear

A wig is an artificial covering of hair. The word is short for periwig and appeared in the English language around 1675. Some people wear wigs to hide the fact that they are bald, which means they have very little or no scalp hair. Actors often wear wigs to disguise their appearance or get into character. In Britain and other Commonwealth nations, some public employees, such as judges and barristers, wear wigs. 

Many composers during the 18th century wore wigs.

[[Neelum District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Azad Kashmir

The Neelum District (ضلع نیلم) is one of the eight districts of Azad Kashmir, Pakistan. Until recently it was part of Muzaffarabad District. It is bounded by the Gilgit (Northern Areas) to the North, with Kupwara and Baramulla Districts of Jammu and Kashmir to the South and Southeast, Muzaffarabad District to the Southwest and Mansehra District to the West. The district was badly affected by the 2005 Kashmir earthquake.

[[Backpack]]

CATEGORIES: Containers, Everyday life

A backpack (also called rucksack, knapsack, packsack, pack, Haversack, or Bergen) is a bag put on somebody's back.  It usually has two straps that go over the shoulders.  It is used to carry things in it, and it often has many pockets or compartments to carry things.  People often use backpacks on camping trips, hikes, or other activity where people need to carry many things.  Backpacks are also be used in the military by soldiers.  They may be also used in school; in this case it is also called a bookbag or school bag.

Large backpacks, used to carry loads over 10 kg (22 lbs), and smaller sports backpacks, usually offload the biggest part of their weight onto padded hip belts. This leaves the shoulder straps mainly for keeping the load in place. This makes it easier to carry heavy loads, because the hips are stronger than the shoulders. It also improves agility and balance, because the load lies closer to the center of mass of the person wearing it.

In the very distant past, backpacks were to carry hunters' larger catches. If the hunts were even larger, the hunters would cut their prey into pieces and hand out the pieces to other hunters. The hunters would then carry smaller pieces separately. The bag would be made up of animal skin and sewn together by animal intestines. They would then be woven together tightly to make a firm material.

Some backpacks are specialized to carry a particular thing, such as fluids or a laptop computer.

[[Gilgit-Baltistan]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 establishments in Asia, Gilgit-Baltistan, 1970s establishments in Pakistan

Gilgit Baltistan, (formerly known as the Northern Areas), (گلگت بلتستان) is territory of Indian state of Ladakh unlawfully occupied by Pakistan. It is the northern-most autonomous territory of Pakistan. In terms of land area it is bigger than Sierra Leone but smaller than Panama. It was part of the former Princely state of Kashmir and Jammu in 1800s and later leased to British eventually liberated after a planned liberation movement led by Gilgit Scouts. It borders Azad Jammu and Kashmir in the south Indian-administered Kashmir in southeast where KPK province of Pakistan to the west, and internationally borders Afghanistan to the north, although Tajikistan is separated by fourteen kilometres via Wakhan Corridor, the People's Republic of China to the northeast. Gilgit Baltistan, which became a single administrative unit in 1970, was formed from the amalgamation of the Gilgit Agency, the Baltistan District of the Ladakh Wazarat, and the states of Hunza and Nagar. Gilgit Baltistan remains part of the Kashmir dispute. The Government of Pakistan since Independence regards the entire area of Jammu and Kashmir as "territory in dispute" to be resolved by a plebiscite to be held throughout the former state in order to determine the area's final accession to either India or merger with Pakistan. Gilgit Baltistan is governed by a Governor and a Chief minister, the latter elected by a legislative assembly. Gilgit Baltistan covers 64,817 km² (28,174 mi²).

[[The Great American Bash (2008)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in professional wrestling, Sports in New York City, World Wrestling Entertainment pay-per-view events, 2000s in New York City, 2008 in New York (state)

The Great American Bash was the fifth yearly Great American Bash professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on July 20, 2008 at the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale, New York and featured talent from the Raw, SmackDown!, and ECW brands. The official theme song for the event is "Move To The Music" by American Bang.

[[Euarchontoglires]]

CATEGORIES: Mammals

Euarchontoglires (synonymous with Supraprimates) is a taxonomic superorder, within Placentalia. It includes the rodents and the primates.

Placentalia (Eutheria)

[[Mazamitla]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Mexico, Jalisco

Mazamitla is a town of the Mexican State of Jalisco.

[[Thomas Brezina]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Austrian writers, Children's writers

Thomas Brezina (born January 30, 1963, in Vienna) is an Austrian writer of children's books. He is famous for his series The Knickerbocker Gang and his stories about the talking bike Tom Turbo.

[[Bass]]

Bass or Basses may mean:

[[Ontology]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Reality

Ontology is the philosophical study of the nature of being, becoming, existence, or reality. It is part of the major branch of philosophy known as metaphysics. 

Ontology deals with questions about what things exist or can be said to exist, and how such entities can be grouped according to similarities and differences. 

[[Turkish Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Star Alliance, Airlines of the Middle East, Airlines of Europe, Transport in Turkey, Companies of Turkey, IATA members

Turkish Airlines, in Turkish Türk Hava Yolları is the national airline of Turkey. In 2012 Turkish Airlines carried 39.0 million passengers. Turkish Airlines flies a lot of destinion inside Turkey and lots of point in the world.

[[Pegasus Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of the Middle East, Transport in Turkey, Companies of Turkey

Pegasus airlines is a Turkish airline company based in Turkey. Pegasus Airlines flies to 100 destinations in 17 countries.

Countries to which Pegasus fly are:

[[Ethiopian Airlines]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Africa, Addis Ababa, Star Alliance, IATA members

Ethiopian Airlines is an airline based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. It is the national airline of Ethiopia, operating scheduled international passenger and freight services to 80 destinations world-wide, as well as domestic services to 28 destinations and passenger and cargo charter flights. Its main hub is Bole International Airport, Addis Ababa. 

[[Sellapan Ramanathan]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2016 deaths, Civil servants, Deaths from stroke, Presidents (government), Singaporean politicians, Tamil people, Asian translators

Sellapan Ramanathan (Tamil: செல்லப்பன் ராமநாதன்; (July 3, 1924 – August 22, 2016) was the sixth President of the Republic of Singapore. Often referred to as S. R. Nathan, he became president on September 1, 1999.

[[Singlish]]

CATEGORIES: English language, Singapore, Languages of Asia

Singlish is a language used mostly in Singapore. It is the first language of many younger Singaporeans, especially those whose parents do not share a native language or dialect, and is the second language of nearly all the rest of the country's residents.

The vocabulary of Singlish consists of words originating from English, Malay (mainly Bahasa Melayu rather than Indonesian), Hokkien, Teochew, Cantonese, Tamil and to a lesser extent various other European, Indic and Sinitic languages, while Singlish syntax resembles southern varieties of Chinese. Also, elements of American and Australian slang have come through from imported television series. To date, other Asian languages like Japanese, Korean and other lesser known Chinese dialects such as Shanghainese have also been incorporated into Singlish. Recently, due to the fact that Mandarin is taught to all Singaporean Chinese in school, Mandarin words have also found their way into Singlish.  Singlish is a creole of English.

Singlish is closely related to Manglish of neighboring Malaysia.

The Singaporean government currently discourages the use of Singlish in favour of Singapore Standard English as it believes in the need for Singaporeans to be able to effectively communicate with the other English users in the world.  The government runs the Speak Good English Movement to emphasise the point.

[[1995-96 NHL season]]

The 1995–96 NHL season was the 79th regular season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-six teams each played 82 games. The Stanley Cup winners were the Colorado Avalanche. They swept the Florida Panthers in four games. This was the first year the team was named Avalanche.

[[Singapore dollar]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of Asia, Economy of Singapore

The Singapore Dollar is the official currency or money of Singapore. The symbol of the Singapore Dollar when written is $. 1 Singapore Dollar is divided into 100 cents. There are 2, 5, 10, 50, 100, 1000 and 10,000 dollar notes and 5¢, 10¢, 20¢, 50¢, and $1 coins in use.

[[Shortwave radio]]

CATEGORIES: Radio, Audio technology

Shortwave radio is a name for radio waves in the range of 3-30 megahertz. Shortwave is often used for broadcasting, and radio receivers made to tune in those broadcasts are sometimes called shortwave radios. The earth's ionosphere carries radio waves in this range over great distances, and signals can travel around the globe under certain conditions. This makes it possible for radio stations all over the world to broadcast to listeners in faraway countries. Sunspot activity and solar flares can interfere with shortwave reception, and different frequencies work better at different times during the day or year.

Since their beginning in the early days of radio, shortwave stations have carried news and cultural information about the station's locality or country of origin. Many governments or national news agencies have shortwave stations, that broadcast in both English and their native languages, so they can inform both non-natives and natives about things in their country. Some broadcast in several different languages, to reach a wider listening audience. Some of these stations are Voice of America, BBC World Service, Deutsche Welle, and Voice of Russia.

Shortwave stations may also be run by private companies or groups. Some broadcast religious programming. HCJB and WEWN include actual church services in their programs. Others may broadcast weather or time information. WWV and WWVH give the current Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) at 2.500, 5.000, 10.000, and 15.000 megahertz. WWV is also on 20.000 megahertz.

A few stations are unlicensed, and their operators are called "pirates". Pirate stations may not broadcast regularly, or from the same location each time. They may carry music not played by other stations, and express unpopular opinions. Government authorities work to stop these stations, because they are not licensed and interfere with licensed ones.

Shortwave listenership has lessened with the rise of the Internet, but is still important to people worldwide, especially in areas the Internet and computer technology have not yet reached. Many longtime stations now stream their programming over the Internet, as audio feeds or podcasting, along with their radio broadcasts.

Two-way radio sets on ships and airplanes also use shortwaves to talk with ground stations that are far away, when they cannot use a communications satellite. 

[[Çanakkale]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Çanakkale is a city in the western Turkey. In World War I, Çanakkale was a battle area. Troy, an ancient Greek city was in the area of Çanakkale Province.

[[Dadı]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish television series

Dadı is a television series. It is the Turkish version of The Nanny. Gülben Ergen as Melek, Kenan Işık as Ömer played main starring in the television series.

[[Placebo (band)]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, Musical groups from London

Placebo is an alternative rock band that started in London in 1994. The band currently has Brian Molko (lead vocals, guitar, harmonica, keyboards, saxophone), Stefan Olsdal (bass, guitar, keyboards, back-up vocals) and Steve Forrest (drums, percussion, back-up vocals) as members. A Kate Bush cover, "Running Up That Hill" is one of their most popular songs.

Placebo’s sixth studio album, Battle for the Sun, was released on June 8th, 2009. 

Recorded over three months at Metal Works Studios in Toronto with producer David Bottrill and mixed in London by My Bloody Valentine, Smashing Pumpkins and Nine Inch Nails producer Alan Moulder, Battle for the Sun is a startling, alive, vital and boundary-vaulting Placebo record. 

It is, according to Brian Molko, “not hard rock and it’s not pop, it’s probably hard pop. I think we’ve made a record which is almost the flipside of ‘Meds’. We’ve made a record about choosing life, about choosing to live, about stepping out of the darkness and into the light. Not necessarily turning your back on the darkness because it’s there, it’s essential; it’s a part of who you are, but more about the choice of standing in the sunlight instead.” 

[[Industrial rock]]

CATEGORIES: Rock music

Industrial rock is a music genre that puts together industrial music and different rock genres, like punk, hardcore punk, or hard rock.

[[Java Man]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins

Java man is the name given to fossils discovered in 1891 at Trinil on the banks of the Bengawan Solo River in Eats Java, Indonesia, one of the first known specimens of Homo erectus. Its discoverer, Eugène Dubois, gave it the scientific name Pithecanthropus erectus, a name derived from Greek and Latin roots meaning "upright ape-man".

[[Peking Man]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins

Peking Man (currently Homo erectus pekinensis) is an example of Homo erectus. The remains were first found between in 1923 and 1937 during excavations at Zhoukoudian near Beijing, in China. 

In 2009 the finds were dated from roughly 750,000 years ago, and a new 26Al/10Be dating suggests they are in the range of 680,000–780,000 years old.

The original fossils disappeared in 1941, but casts and descriptions remain. They show that this subspecies looked similar to modern humans and Neanderthals, and used stone tools. Most likely fire was used, and it is currently unknown if interbreeding was between Homo erectus and Homo sapiens, and if this is an ancestor or member of the Denisovan peoples of East Asia. No religious or symbolic findings are yet associated with this subspecies.

[[Golden plates]]

CATEGORIES: Mormonism, Religious texts

Followers of the Latter Day Saint Movement believe that Joseph Smith was visited by an angel who gave him the Golden Plates from which he translated the Book of Mormon, one of the faith's sacred texts. They were found on September 22, 1823 on Cumorah hill in Manchester, New York.

[[Moroni]]

CATEGORIES: Angels, Mormonism

Moroni is a character in the Book of Mormon that was the final member of his people before they were all killed. Mormons believe that Moroni later appeared to Joseph Smith as an angel and gave him the Golden Plates from which Joseph translated the Book of Mormon.

He is also the figure of the angel that is plated in gold and which sits on top of all Mormon temples.

[[Aer language]]

CATEGORIES: Indo-Aryan languages, Languages of Pakistan

Aer is an Indo-Aryan language spoken by about 200 people in Sindh, Pakistan. 

[[Guitar Hero World Tour]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Guitar Hero, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 3 games, Windows games, Wii games, Xbox 360 games

Guitar Hero: World Tour is a music game that is part of the Guitar Hero franchise. The game was released in North America on October 27 2008. This is the first Guitar Hero game that allows players to play drums and sing vocals. There are 85 songs that come on the disc.  It will also allow players to make their own characters and songs. On the PS3, Xbox 360, and Wii versions, you can download songs online.

[[Badeshi language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Northern Areas (Pakistan), Languages of Pakistan

Badeshi is a northwestern Indo-Iranic language spoken by over 10,000 people in upper reaches of Bishigram Valley (Chail), east of Madyan, Swat, Kohistan in Northern Areas of Pakistan.

Badeshi people of Bishigram Valley and Tirat Valley are total around 1,500 in numbers. The figures of Pooran Chakesar, Alai, and Mansehra towns is not available. Badeshi people stopped using their native language completely few generations ago. In Bishigram Valley, they only speak Torwali and in Tirat Valley they speak Pashto.

Muhammad Zaman Sagar, a field linguist is working on this language. But his research over the 2 years, he has just collected one hundred words so far. In July 2007 he visited again the Bishigram valley and spent some days with those people there.

[[Balti]]

Balti might mean:

[[Austro-Bavarian language]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian culture, Bavaria, Languages of Europe, German dialects

Austro-Bavarian (also known as Austrian or Bavarian; Bavarian: Boarisch ˈbɔɑ̯rɪʃ; Bairisch ˈbaɪ̯ʁɪʃ) is a major group of Upper German varieties. They are called "upper" because they are spoken in Switzerland, Austria and southern Germany, which are mountainous. Like standard German, Austro-Bavarian is a High German language, but they are not the same language. However, Austro-Bavarian and Standard German have influenced each other and the vast majority of Austro-Bavarian speakers speak Standard German as well. There are more variants of Bavarian. The variants are Central Bavarian, Southern Bavarian, and Northern Bavarian.

Austro-Bavarian is also used to refer to the dialect group which includes the Austro-Bavarian dialect discussed here, as well as the Cimbrian, Hutterite German, and Mócheno dialects of Germany.

[[Brahui language]]

CATEGORIES: Dravidian languages, Languages of Pakistan

The Brahui (بروہی) or Bravi (براوِ) language, spoken by the Brahui, it is the only Dravidian language mainly spoken in Pakistan, although it is also spoken in Afghanistan and Iran. The 2005 edition of Ethnologue reports some 2.2 million speakers, 90% of whom live in Pakistan. In Pakistan it is mainly spoken in the Kalat region of Balochistan.

Although it is a Dravidian language, it has been heavily influenced by the Iranian languages spoken in the area such as Balochi.

Brahui is often considered to be a remnant of a formerly more widespread Dravidian language family that was speculated to have reduced during the Indo-Aryan migration. It is also sometimes speculated that Brahui might be a direct legacy of the Indus Valley Civilisation. However, one polar opposite view is that Brahuis migrated up to Baluchistan in the 13 or 14th century or by a late immigration that took place after 1000 CE.

[[Burushaski language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Northern Areas (Pakistan), Languages of Pakistan

Burushaski (بروشسکی - burū́šaskī) is a language isolate spoken by some 87,000 (as of 2000) Burusho people in the Hunza, Nagar, Yasin, and parts of the Gilgit valleys in the Northern Areas of Pakistan. It is also spoken by some 300 speakers in Srinagar, Indian-administered Kashmir. Other names for the language are Kanjut (Kunjoot), Werchikwār, Boorishki, Brushas (Brushias).

Today Burushaski contains many loanwords from Urdu (including English words received via Urdu) and from neighbouring Dardic languages such as Khowar and Shina, as well as a few from Turkic languages and from the neighboring Sino-Tibetan language Balti, but the original vocabulary remains largely intact. The Dardic languages also contain large numbers of loanwords from Burushaski.

There are three dialects, named after the main valleys: Hunza, Nagar, and Yasin (also called Werchikwār). The dialect of Yasin is thought to be the least affected by contact with neighboring languages and is generally less similar to the other two than those are to each other; nevertheless all three dialects are mutually intelligible.

[[Khowar language]]

CATEGORIES: Dardic languages

Kho is a Dadikai language. It is spoken by fewer than 1,000 people.  These people live in the upper Chitral District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.

[[Islamgarh]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Pakistan, Cities in Jammu and Kashmir

Islamgarh (یسلامگارھ) (or Akhalgarh, where Akhal means the Immortal and Garh means Place of) is a small New town near the village of Chak Haryam, that is close to the Mangla Dam and one of 25 towns in the Union Councils of Pakistan is the Chakswari Tehsil, Mirpur District of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Pakistan. 10,082 people lived there in 1998.

[[Dhatki language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan, Languages of Sindh, Languages of India, Rajasthan

Dhatki, also known as Dhati or Thari, is a sociolect of Marwari dialect of Rajasthani language. It is spoken in western parts of Jaisalmer and Barmer districts of Rajasthan in the Republic of India and eastern parts of Sindh province of Pakistan. Its characteristic phonological features are glottalized or implosive sounds. Many Dhatki speaking communities migrated to British India in 1947 after the partition and continued to do so in small numbers, but still there is a sizable number of Dhatki speakers in districts Tharparkar, Umarkot, Mirpurkhas, Sanghar, Badin and other areas of Sindh Pakistan.

[[Dehwari language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Balochistan (Pakistan), Languages of Pakistan, Persian language

Dehwari is a Southwestern Iranian language spoken by over 20,0000 people in Balochistan, Pakistan. Most of the Dehwari speakers are concentrated in Mastung , Khuzdar, Nushk, Kharan, Sarlath, Dalbandin, and Kalat.

[[Dogri language]]

CATEGORIES: Punjabi language, Languages of India

Dogri (ڈوگرى) is an Indo-Aryan Language.Although formerly treated as a Punjabi dialect, Dogri is now considered to be a member of the Western Pahari group of languages. 

[[Domaaki language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan, Languages of Northern Areas (Pakistan), Dardic languages

Domaakí - also known as Dumaki or Domaá - is a language spoken in the Northern Areas of Pakistan.

It is the traditional tongue of the Dóoma (sg. Dóom), a small ethnic group scattered in extended family units among larger host communities. In former times, Domaaki speakers traditionally worked as blacksmiths and musicians, but nowadays they are also engaged in a variety of other professions. 

In almost all places of their present settlement the Dooma, who are all Muslims, have long since given up their original mother tongue in favour of the language of their respective host community. Only in the Nager and Hunza Valleys has Domaaki survived until the present day. 

Following its geographic location, Domaaki can be divided into two dialects: Nager-Domaaki and Hunza-Domaaki. Although there are considerable differences between these two varieties, they are not so severe as to prevent mutual intelligibility. 

Presently Domaaki counts less than 350 (mostly elderly) speakers – ca. 300

of them related to Hunza; around 40 related to Nager – and is thus to be considered a highly endangered language.

[[Gawar-Bati language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Languages of Afghanistan, Dardic languages

Gawar-Bati is known in Chitral as Aranduyiwar, because it is spoken in Village Arandu, which is the last village in the bottom of Chitral and is across the Kunar River from Berkot in Afghanistan. Chitral keeps a military base in Arandu to guard against an attack by Afghanistan.

There are 9,000 speakers of Gawar-Bati, but only 1,500 are in Pakistan. The rest are in Afghanistan.

The Gawar-Bati Language has not been given study by serious linguists, except that it is mentioned by George Morgenstierne (1926) and Kendall Decker (1992). It is classified as a Dardic Language but this is more of a geographical classification than a linguistic one.

The Norwegian linguist Georg Morgenstierne wrote that Chitral is the area of the greatest linguistic diversity in the world. Although Khowar is the predominant language of Chitral, more than ten other languages are spoken here. These include Kalasha-mun, Palula, Dameli, Gawar-Bati, Nuristani, Yidgha, Burushaski, Gujar, Wakhi, Kyrgyz, Persian and Pashto. Since many of these languages have no written form, letters are usually written in Urdu or Persian.

[[Goaria language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan, Languages of Sindh

Goaria is a Marwari Rajasthani language spoken by some 25,000 people in Sindh Province, of Pakistan. The people are predominantly Hindu, and use the Hindi language for worship.

[[Gujari language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan

Gojri, also known as 'Gujari' is an Indo-Aryan language spoken by the Gurjars, or Gujjars of Northern Pakistan and the Republic of India. It is classified as a form or dialect of Rajasthani by the linguists.

The language is mainly spoken in the Punjab provinces of Hindustan and Pakistan and also in Jammu & Kashmir, it is most closely related to Marwari and Gujarati.

[[Hazaragi]]

CATEGORIES: Hazara people, Languages of Pakistan, Languages of Afghanistan

Hazaragi (هزارگی) spoken by the Hazara people in south Asia.

[[Hindko]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan, Punjabi language

Hindko (ہندکو /Hindkoŭ/, also Hindku or Hinko,) is a n Indo-Aryan language  spoken in Pakistan. The language is spoken in areas of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (including Hazara), Punjab (including Attock), and Azad Kashmir  by an estimated 2.2 to 4 million.

There is no proper, formal generic name for these people because they belong to diverse ethnicities and tend to identify themselves by the larger families, castes and tribes. However the people of the largest group in the districts of Haripur, Abbottabad and Mansehra are sometimes recognised collectively as Hazarawal, named after the Hazara Division that comprises these districts. In Peshawar city they are referred to as "Kharay" meaning City-dwellers or Hindkowans.

[[Pokémon crime organizations]]

CATEGORIES: Pokémon characters

In every Pokémon video game, anime and manga series, there has been an organization that opposes the main characters.  They try to steal Pokémon and rob people of their money, and some even attempt to take over the world. This is a list of all such organizations.

== Team Rocket == 

Team Rocket are the crime syndicate of the Kanto region and in the games Pokémon Red, Blue, and Green as well as their remakes FireRed and LeafGreen. They are also the crime syndicate in the Johto region and in the games Pokémon Gold, Silver, and Crystal as well as their remakes HeartGold and SoulSilver.

[[Malaya]]

Malaya is both a name and word that has different meanings in different places.

[[Great Seal of Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Vermont, United States state seals

The Great Seal of Vermont is the official seal of the U.S. state of Vermont. It is used to emboss and make official documents real.

[[Dune universe]]

CATEGORIES: Dune universe

The fictional Dune'' universe''', or Duniverse', is the political, scientific, and social place from author Frank Herbert's six-book Dune series of science fiction novels.

[[East Francia]]

CATEGORIES: Former countries in Europe, History of Germany, History of Switzerland, History of Austria, History of Europe, 843 establishments, 919 disestablishments, 9th century establishments in Europe

Eastern Francia (Regnum Francorum orientalium) was the land of Louis the German after the Treaty of Verdun of 843. That treaty divided Carolingian Empire of the Franks into an East, West, and Middle. Over the centuries it changed into the Holy Roman Empire and modern Germany.Until the beginning of the 12. Century it was known as Francia Orientalis or the Kingdom of the East Franks. If the beginning of the Holy Roman Empire is thought to have happened at the same time as the rise of the Ottonian dynasty, the kingdom of East Francia lasted from 843  to when Duke Henry I of Saxony became a monarch on in 919; or it could have began in 962, when Otto I the Great became a monarch (translatio imperii).

East Francia was divided into four duchies: Swabia (Alamannia), Franconia, Saxony and Bavaria (with Carinthia). And after the death of Lothair II in 869, these were added the eastern parts of Lotharingia.

This division have there until 1268, the end of the Hohenstaufen dynasty.

From the 10th century, East Francia was also known as Regnum Teutonicum ("Teutonic kingdom", "Kingdom of Germany"), a term in Salian times.

[[Colm]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Colm is a masculine given name. It comes from the Irish word for "dove". There are three ways to pronounce this name. Colm is the short form of the Roman name Columba, which also means "dove". Saint Columba was a 6th-century Irish monk who founded a monastery on the Island of Iona in Scotland.

Famous Colms include television and movie actor Colm Meaney, actor Colm Feore, and novelists Colm Toibin and Colum McCann.

[[RAR]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

In computing, RAR is a archival file format that allows data compression, error recovery, and file spanning.  It was created by Eugene Roshal (that is why it is named RAR: Roshal ARchive) and is now licensed to Win.RAR GmbH.

[[WinRAR]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft Windows software

WinRAR (a.k.a. RAR) is a shareware file archiver and data compression program created by Eugene Roshal. Many people think that it is one of the three most used File Archiver for Windows, together with WinZip and 7-Zip. It is one of the few programs that can create RAR archives, because the encoding method is proprietary, or it means they own it and nobody else can use it.

[[Changthang]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Kashmir

Changthang means Northern Plateau in Tibetan.  It is a high altitude plateau in western and northern Tibet.  It goes from Ladakh east about 1600km to the Chinese state called Qinghai.  It is a very high land with giant lakes.  It is the home of the Changpa nomads.

The part of Changthang in Ladakh (in India) has a population of 10,089 (2000 WCD). It is found in Jammu and Kashmir, around the Chinese border area of Changthang Region east and southeast of Leh. Changthang is known for its music and dance. It also has many important animals such as sheep (cashmere wool) and goats.

[[Chilisso language]]

CATEGORIES: Dardic languages, Languages of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa

Chilisso is an Indo-European Kohistani language spoken in Pakistan. It is also called Galos or Chiliss.

[[Balochi language]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian languages, Languages of Pakistan

Balochi (also called Baluchi, Baloci or Baluci) is a Northwestern Iranian language. It is the main language of the Baloch of Balochistan, Pakistan, eastern Iran and southern Afghanistan. It is also spoken as a second language by some Brahui. It is one of nine official languages of Pakistan.

[[Jadgal]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian people

The Jadgal people are a tribe which live in Pakistan and Iran. The Jadgal people speak the Jadgali language. The population of Jadgal people living in Pakistan was at about 100,000 in 1998. Jadgal people are mostly Muslim.

[[Kutchi language]]

CATEGORIES: Indo-Iranian languages, Languages of Pakistan

Kachchi is a language and is spoken in regions such as Rann of Kutch, Sindh; Karachi, Pakistan. Over 50,000 people spoke it in 1998.

[[Querétaro]]

CATEGORIES: Querétaro, States of Mexico

Querétaro is a state of Mexico.

The word Querétaro dates back to pre-Hispanic times. Some of the people who arrived in the area now occupied by the state gave it different names based on its geographic features. The Tarascans of Michoacán called the spot now known as La Cañada, Crettaro or Queréndaro, which means the place of the crags; they probably gave it this name because there is lots of pink stone there. The Otomíes called it Mxei, which means the place where the ballgame is played. It was also called Ndamaxei, which means the great ballcourt; the Aztecs named it Tlaxco, which has the same meaning. Finally, the Chichimecs called this spot Xico, which also means great ballcourt in their language; it received this name because the La Cañada area is shaped like an enormous pre-Hispanic ballcourt.

[[Fatima Jinnah]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1967 deaths, Pakistani people, Pakistani culture, National symbols of Pakistan

Fatima Jinnah (31 July 1893 – 9 July 1967) was a Pakistani dental surgeon, writer, stateswoman and one of the founders of Pakistan. She was the younger sister of Muhammad Ali Jinnah who became the first Governor General of Pakistan. 

She was a strong critic of the British Raj, and a leading member of the All-India Muslim League. She advocated the separation of Pakistan as an independent state when the Raj ended.

After the independence of Pakistan, Jinnah co-founded the All Pakistan Women's Association, which helped settle the migrants in the new country. After the death of her brother, she was a prominent philanthropist, but was not politically active until 1965. Then she took part in the Pakistani presidential election against the  military Dictator Ayub Khan. She lost the primary because of election rigging by the Pakistan Army.

Her legacy is her support for civil rights, her struggle in Pakistan Movement and her devotion to her brother. Many institutions and public spaces have been named in her honour.

[[Campeche]]

CATEGORIES: Campeche, States of Mexico

Campeche is a state in the south-east of Mexico. Its capital is also called Campeche. About 750,000 people live in Campeche.

[[1994-95 NHL season]]

The 1994–95 NHL season was the 78th regular season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-six teams each played 48 games, a shortened season, due to a lockout of the players by the owners. For the first time since the 1969–70 NHL season, no team averaged more than four goals scored per game. A total of 60 shutouts happened in the 624 regular-season games.

The New Jersey Devils won the Stanley Cup in a four-game sweep of the Detroit Red Wings. An unusually high number of shorthanded goals (28) were scored in the 81 playoff games of 1995. In addition, 7 hat-tricks were recorded in the 1995 Playoffs.

[[Gentoo]]

Gentoo may mean:

[[1993-94 NHL season]]

The 1993–94 NHL season was the 77th regular season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-six teams each played 84 games. The New York Rangers were the Stanley Cup champions. It was the Rangers' fourth championship. In addition, the final game started the 1994 Stanley Cup riots in Downtown Vancouver.

The play of Martin Brodeur of the New Jersey Devils and Dominik Hasek of the Buffalo Sabres brought in a new era of goaltending dominance in the NHL. Only three teams reached the 300-goal plateau, and only one team, the Detroit Red Wings, averaged more than four goals scored per game. Goaltenders combined for 99 shutouts during the regular season.

[[1940–41 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1940, 1941 in North America, 1940s in North America

The 1940–41 NHL season was the 24th season of the National Hockey League. Seven teams each played 48 games. The Boston Bruins were the Stanley Cup winners as they beat the Detroit Red Wings four games to none in the final series.

[[Khetrani language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan, Indo-Aryan languages, Balochistan (Pakistan)

Khetrani is an Indo-Aryan language. It is spoken in northeast Balochistan province (Pakistan). About 4,000 people speak it. It is member of Lahnda group. It is related to Saraiki and to Sindhi. The literacy rate for native speakers is below 1% and below 5% for those speaking it as a second language.

[[Ladakh]]

CATEGORIES: Jammu and Kashmir

Ladakh ("land of high passes") is a region in northern India. It is located between the Kunlun mountain range in the north and the main Himalayas to the south. Ladakh is well-known for its remote mountain scenery. It is inhabited by a mix of Indo-Aryan and Tibetan people. Their language is an archaic dialect of the Tibetan language. It is sometimes called "Little Tibet", because it has been strongly influenced by Tibetan culture. Ladakh is one of the least populated regions in the area.

Historically, the region of Ladakh included neighbouring Baltistan, the Indus and Zanskar Valleys, Lahaul and Spiti, Aksai Chin and the Nubra Valley. The modern region borders Tibet to the east, Lahaul and Spiti to the south, and Kashmir, Jammu and Baltistan to the west.

In the past, Ladakh was important for trade. It was where several important trade routes met. However, China closed the border with Tibet in the 1960s, and since then, international trade has suffered. Tourism is an exception, and it has been very important for Ladakh's economy since about 1974. Because the wider region is a part of the Kashmir conflict, the Indian military has a strong presence in Ladakh.

The largest town in Ladakh is Leh. Ladakh's most population are followers of Shia Islam and rest majority is Buddhists which are 35%of population.. Leh is followed by Kargil as the second largest town in Ladakh. Some Ladakhi activists have in recent times called for Ladakh to be made into a union territory because of its religious and cultural differences with Kashmir, which is mostly Muslim. Under Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 Ladakh was declared as a separate union territory.

[[Ladakhi]]

CATEGORIES: Sino-Tibetan languages

Population 102,000 in Jammu and Kashmir (1997). Population includes 29,800 to 33,300 Shamma (Voegelin and Voegelin 1977.328). Population total all countries: 114,000. 

Region Maqbuza Kashmir, Ladakh District, 250 villages and hamlets. Also spoken in China. 

Alternate names   Ladaphi, Ladhakhi, Ladak, Ladwags 

Dialects Leh (Central Ladakhi), Shamma (Sham, Shamskat, Lower Ladakhi), Nubra Ladakhi. Perhaps 30% to 40% intelligibility of Tibetan. Leh is used as the medium of communication. Leh speakers understand Zangskari and Changthang at more than 90% on recorded text tests. Not known if speakers of all dialects understand Leh well. Leh is in Leh and surrounding areas. Shamma is west of Leh along the Indus Valley and to the south of Khaltse. Nubra is in Nubra Tahsil north of Leh. Lexical similarity 71% to 83% with Purik, 53% to 60% with Tibetan, 84% to 94% among 5 main dialects. 

Classification Sino-Tibetan, Tibeto-Burman, Himalayish, Tibeto-Kanauri, Tibetic, Tibetan, Western, Ladakhi 

Language use All ages. Many speakers in urban areas use Urdu, or English, but rural speakers are mainly monolingual in Ladakhi. 

Language development Literacy rate in second language: Men: 36%, women: 12% in Urdu, Tibetan, or English (1991). Tibetan script. Grammar. Bible: 1948. 

Comments Written Ladakhi is distinct from the spoken forms. The dialect of Leh has been acknowledged as standard spoken Ladakhi. It is the medium of Leh radio broadcasts and the standard medium of communication among all Ladakh dialects, including Changthang and Zangskari (Paldan 2002). SOV; postpositions; genitives, relatives before noun heads; articles, adjectives numerals after noun heads; suffixes indicate case of noun phrase; ergative; causatives; comparative; CCVCC or CCCVV maximum; nontonal. Mountain valleys. 2,400 to 5,000 meters. Agriculturalists: wheat, barley; pastoralists: yaks, goats, sheep (cashmere wool); cottage industries: weaving, jewelry making, religious artifact production. Buddhist, Muslim, Christian. 

[[Norco (medication)]]

CATEGORIES: Analgesics

Norco is a medicine to help with pain.  It is a mixture of two medicines- hydrocodone and acetaminophen.

[[OD]]

OD is a two-letter abbreviation and can mean any of the following:

Non abbreviated meanings of OD are as follows:

[[Sunspot]]

CATEGORIES: Weather, Solar System, Astrophysics

A sunspot is an area of high magnetic activity, on the surface of the Sun. Sunspots produce bright light, but not as much as the surface around them, so they appear dark by comparison. They are cooler than the rest of the sun. Some are small, and some are ten times bigger than Earth. 

A sunspot cycle of eleven years has been found, with changes in activity. Every 11 years the number of sunspots increases, and later declines. Sunspots on one cycle are magnetically different from the next, so the total sunspot cycle is 22 years. This cycle has been seen since the 18th century. Before that time, for over a hundred years, there were very few sunspots. Astronomers do not know what caused this "Maunder Minimum". 

[[Emergency exit]]

CATEGORIES: Safety

An emergency exit in a building is an exit for emergencies, such as a fire.

Emergency exits can be found in a number of places such as buildings, planes, schools, or anywhere else where there may be a large number of people in a small space.

[[Crystal radio]]

CATEGORIES: Radio receivers, Hobbies

A crystal radio, sometimes called a crystal set, is a very simple AM (or rarely FM) radio receiver, that does not need batteries to work. A long wire antenna gathers enough of the radio signals from nearby transmitters to power a crystal diode, which demodulates the signals, and plays them as sound through an earphone or small headset. 

Crystal radios have come and gone many times in history. They were built in the early days of radio broadcasting by amateurs, and people who could not afford a well-made radio. They became popular again during the Great Depression, when money was scarce. During World War II, American soldiers built "foxhole radios" that used a razor blade and pencil point instead of a crystal. (German and Italian troops had equipment to detect normal superheterodyne radio receivers working, so an alternate choice was a wise one.)

After the war ended, amateurs built more crystal sets, and children began to make them as science and hobby projects. Later during the Vietnam War prisoners of war again built simple radios, and soldiers used Slinky springs as antennas.

Hobby clubs still exist, that give information to persons who want to build a crystal radio or similar radio project.

[[Bengali Language Movement]]

CATEGORIES: History of Pakistan, Languages of Bangladesh

[[March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s in Washington, D.C., Martin Luther King Jr., 1963 in the United States, August events

The March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom was a rally held on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. on 28 August 1963. It was where Martin Luther King, Jr gave his famous I Have a Dream speech. After the march, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the National Voting Rights Act of 1965 were passed. There were over 200,000 people there, both black and white.

[[Dolls]]

Dolls are models of human beings, usually toys.

Dolls could also mean:

The Dolls could mean:

[[Doll]]

CATEGORIES: Dolls

A doll is a child's toy that looks like a baby or other human being. Dolls have been around since the beginning of human civilization, and have been made from many different types of materials, like stone, clay, wood, bone, cloth and paper, to porcelain, china, rubber and plastic.

While dolls are usually for children, they are also collected by adults, for remembering things from the past, their beauty, their historical importance or their financial value (being worth money). In ancient times, dolls were used as symbols of a deity (god), and played an important role in religious ceremonies and rituals. 

Lifelike or anatomically correct dolls are used by health professionals, medical schools, and social workers to train doctors and nurses in different health procedures or to find out about cases of sexual abuse of children. Artists sometimes use jointed mannequins or ball-jointed dolls in drawing the human body. Action figures are types of dolls that represent superheroes and military people are particularly popular among boys. There are baby dolls, paper dolls, rag dolls, talking dolls, fashion dolls and many others.

[[Theodore Long]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Birmingham, Alabama

Theodore Robert Rufus Long (born September 15, 1947) is an American former professional wrestling referee and manager. He is best known for his long time with the WWE where he served as the General Manager of SmackDown! and ECW.

[[Bobcat]]

CATEGORIES: Felines, Mammals of North America

The bobcat (Lynx rufus) is a fierce cat that lives in forests, swamps, mountains, prairie, and deserts in much of North America. Bobcats are generally nocturnal (most active at night), but are most active at dawn and dusk. They spend the day in their den (a cave, hollow log or rock crevice). They are very good climbers and swimmers. Bobcats usually live from 10 to 14 years. Bobcats and lynxes are closely related.

[[Emergency medical technician]]

CATEGORIES: Healthcare occupations

An emergency medical technician (EMT) is someone who works on an ambulance and takes care of sick and hurt people. EMTs used to be called "ambulance drivers," since much of their work is bringing people to an emergency room. Their other main duty is first aid including:

[[Kuru (disease)]]

CATEGORIES: Neurology, Infectious diseases

Kuru is a disease caused by cannibalism, formerly thought to be caused by specifically eating human brains, but is actually caused by eating any human meat. It is also known as the "laughing sickness" due to the pathologic bursts of laughter that the patient displays.

Kuru was found in Papua New Guinea, among members of the Fore tribe. The word kuru means "trembling with fear" in the Fore language.

[[Kuru, Finland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Finland, Former municipalities of Finland

Kuru is a former municipality in the Pirkanmaa, Finland. As of 2005, there were 2,774 people living in Kuru.

Tampere is 50 km to the south.

Most of the Seitseminen National Park is in the municipality of Kuru. 

[[It Is Well with My Soul]]

CATEGORIES: Christian hymns

It Is Well with My Soul is a very influential hymn written by hymnist Horatio Spafford and composed by Philip Bliss. Spafford wrote the song right after his four daughters died by the sinking of the S.S. Ville Du Havre.

[[Jackson Township, New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: Townships in New Jersey, Ocean County, New Jersey

Jackson Township is a township in Ocean County, New Jersey, United States.  The Township of Jackson was named after Andrew Jackson.April 2009  About 43,000 people lived there as of the year 2002.

[[Jackson]]

Jackson may refer to:

[[Jackson (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names, Surnames

Jackson is a common patronymic family name in English speaking countries, meaning "son of Jack". It is less common as a given name. People with the name Jackson include:

[[Pistosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropterygia

Pistosaurus is a genus of marine sauropterygian reptiles. It is a Nothosaur, a relative of the plesiosaurs.

Pistosaurus was a advanced nothosaur-like body with a plesiosaur-like head. Is presently known only from the Middle Triassic. Even if it is a nothosaur it is acknowledged to be closely related to the ancestors of plesiosaurs.

The head also resembled that of a plesiosaur, but with the primitive palate of a nothosaur, and numerous, sharp teeth ideal for catching and eating fish.

Although it is unlikely that Pistosaurus was a direct ancestor of the plesiosaurs, the mixture of features suggests that it was closely related  to that group.

[[Party]]

CATEGORIES: Parties

A party is a social gathering for celebration and recreation. Some are to celebrate a special day, person, or event.

[[LNER Class A4]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United Kingdom

The LNER Class A4 was a type of steam locomotive made in England in 1935. It was designed by Sir Nigel Gresley for the London North Eastern Railway. 35 locomotives were built in total. 

They were designed to be very fast and had a very sleek shape. One of them, 4468 "Mallard", is the fastest steam locomotive ever made. It set a world speed record of 125 mph (201.16 km/h) on July 3, 1938.

Six A4s still exist today. The rest were scrapped when steam stopped being used to power trains in Britain.

[[Old Firm]]

CATEGORIES: Football in Scotland

The Old Firm is the name given to the relationship between two football teams in Scotland, Rangers F.C. and Celtic F.C.

[[Gretna F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish football clubs, 1946 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Scotland

Gretna Football Club is a former Scottish football club from Gretna, Dumfries and Galloway that was founded in 1946.

Despite being based in Scotland, the club played in English football between 1947 and 2002. The club was elected to the Scottish Football League at the third attempt in 2002. Under the ownership of businessman Brooks Mileson, who invested millions of pounds in what was a village team, the club went from the Third Division side to the Scottish Premier League (SPL) in less than five years.

While in the SPL, however, the club were placed in administration after Mileson withdrew his financial support. The club finished in the relegation position in the SPL. At the end of the season, all of the club's staff were made redundant and the club was initially relegated to the Third Division due to their inability to guarantee fulfilment of their 2008-09 fixtures. 

After this demotion, the one remaining potential buyer withdrew their offer to buy the club. In the belief that Gretna has ceased to exist, they resigned their place in the Scottish Football League on June 3.

[[Labour]]

Labor might mean:

[[Pillar (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, American heavy metal bands, American hard rock bands, Christian rock bands, Musical groups established in 1998, Musical groups from Oklahoma

Pillar is a Grammy-nominated Christian rock band from Tulsa, Oklahoma.  Pillar has used several genres, such as hard rock, rapcore, and alternative metal.

[[Captain (sports)]]

CATEGORIES: Sports words, Team sports

In team sports, a captain is a title given to the member of the team who has to make choices about strategy and teamwork while a game is happening.

This is most important when a game's rules say that the coach of a team cannot tell the players what they should do while a game is being played.

In some sports, team captains may have to talk with game officials about the way the rules are applied.

[[RAR (disambiguation)]]

RAR may refer to the following:

[[Zip]]

zip or ZIP may mean:

[[ZIP (file format)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

The ZIP file format is a popular lossless data compression and archival format created by Phil Katz, founder of PKWARE. A ZIP file contains one or more files that have been compressed, to reduce their file size, or stored as-is. A number of compression algorithms are permitted in zip files but in 2008 only DEFLATE is widely used and supported.

[[Ben Roethlisberger]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American football quarterbacks, Pittsburgh Steelers players, Sportspeople from Ohio, People from Lima, Ohio, American bloggers

Benjamin Todd Roethlisberger (born March 2, 1982, in Lima, Ohio), nicknamed Big Ben, is an American football quarterback. He plays for the Pittsburgh Steelers in the National Football League.

Roethlisberger was the captain of his high school's football team, basketball team, and baseball team. He did not play football as a quarterback until his last year in high school.

Roethlisberger played college football for Miami University in Oxford. In 2003, Roethlisberger led his team to an unbeaten record, a Number 10 ranking in the Associated Press poll and a 49-28 victory over Louisville in the 2003 GMAC Bowl.

Roethlisberger was chosen by the Steelers in the 2004 NFL Draft. He earned the National Football League's "Rookie of the Year Award" in 2005.

On February 5, 2006, Roethlisberger became the youngest quarterback in NFL history to win a Super Bowl. He helped the Steelers to a 21-10 victory over the Seattle Seahawks in the fortieth Super Bowl. He was only 23 years old at the time. He played in his first Pro Bowl in 2007. Roethlisberger led the Steelers to a second Super Bowl title in four seasons as they defeated the Arizona Cardinals in Super Bowl XLIII, 27-23, after he made a game-winning touchdown pass to Santonio Holmes in the final 35 seconds.

[[Bubble]]

Bubble could mean:

[[Staphylococcus aureus]]

CATEGORIES: Gram-positive bacteria

Staphylococcus aureus is the most common cause of staph infections. It is a round bacterium, often living on the skin or in the nose of a person. About one third of the U.S. population are carriers of Staph. Aureus  Staphylococcus aureus can cause a range of illnesses from minor skin infections to life-threatening diseases.

S. aureus can be treated with antibiotics, but they easily get resistance to antibiotics. When they are resistant, they are called MRSA (methicillin-resistant S. aureus).

[[1950–51 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 in North America, 1951 in North America

The 1950–51 NHL season was the 34th season of the National Hockey League. Six teams each played 70 games. The Toronto Maple Leafs defeated the Montreal Canadiens four games to one for the Stanley Cup to win their fifth Cup in seven years.

[[Seabed]]

CATEGORIES: Oceanography

The seabed (also sea floor, seafloor, or ocean floor) is the bottom of the ocean. The ocean floor has been explored by submarines and to some extent scuba divers.  

[[Housing]]

Housing can be:

[[The Telling]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 books, Hainish Cycle

The Telling is a 2000 science fiction book that was written by Ursula K. Le Guin and is set in her fictional world called the Hainish Cycle. It tells the story of Sutty, an Earthling sent to be an Ekumen observer, on the planet Aka, and her experiences.

[[Anti-tobacco movement in Nazi Germany]]

CATEGORIES: Nazi Germany, Smoking

Nazi Germany started a strong anti-tobacco movement and led the first public anti-smoking campaign in modern history.  In 1940, German scientists found a link between smoking tobacco, and lung cancer. 

Anti-tobacco movements grew in many countries from the beginning of the 20th century. But all these had little success. The only exception was Germany where it was supported by the government after the Nazis came to power. It was the most powerful anti-smoking movement in the world in the 1930s and early 1940s. The Nazi leaders opposed smoking and some of them openly said what is wrong with tobacco consumption. Research on smoking and its effects on health got better under Nazi rule and was the most important of its type at that time. Adolf Hitler did not like tobacco and the Nazi reproductive policies were among the causes due to which the Nazis started their campaign against smoking. This campaign was linked with antisemitism and racism.

The Nazi anti-tobacco campaign used many methods like restrictions on smoking in public spaces, limiting tobacco advertising, restrictions on tobacco rations for women, restrictions on restaurants and coffeehouses, promoting health education, banning smoking in trams, buses and city trains, limiting cigarette rations in the Wehrmacht, organizing medical lectures for soldiers and increasing the tobacco tax. The anti-tobacco movement did not have much effect in the early years of the Nazi rule. Tobacco use increased between 1933 and 1939. But smoking by military personnel declined from 1939 to 1945. This anti-smoking campaign was more powerful and serious than the anti-tobacco movement in Germany at the beginning of the 21st century.

[[1992-93 NHL season]]

The 1992–93 NHL season was the 76th regular season of the National Hockey League. Each player wore a patch on their jersey throughout the 1992–93 regular season and playoffs to commemorate the one hundredth anniversary of the Stanley Cup. Twenty-four teams played 84 games each. It proved, at the time, to be the highest-scoring regular season in NHL history, as a total of 7,311 goals were scored. Twenty of the twenty-four teams scored three goals or more per game, and only two teams, the Toronto Maple Leafs and the Chicago Blackhawks, allowed fewer than three goals per game. Only 63 shutouts were recorded during the regular season. The Montreal Canadiens won their league-leading 24th Cup by defeating the Los Angeles Kings four games to one.   As of the end of the 2007–08 season, this is the last time that a Canadian team has won the Stanley Cup.

[[Athanasian Creed]]

CATEGORIES: Christian creeds, Ancient Christianity

The Athanasian Creed is a Christian statement of faith. It is also often referred to as Quicumque vult (can be translated as Whoever wants, the first two words of the statement). It is the first known creed to talk about trinity. It has been in use since the 6th century, mainly in the western part of the Church. It is not used very much today, the Nicene Creed has largely replaced it.

From about the 9th century people thought that St. Athanasius had written it. Athanasus lived in the 4th century in Egypt.

Today, this view is largely seen as false. This is because of the following:

Today, most people think it came from Gaul around the year 500. Its positions are similar to those taken by St. Ambrose of Milan, Augustine of Hippo or Vincent of Lérins. J.N.D. Kelly, a contemporary patristics scholar, believes that St. Vincent of Lérins was not its author, but suggests that it may have come from the same bacground, namely the area of Lerins in southern Gaul. Caesarius of Arles is one of the possible authors. 

The oldest surviving manuscripts of the Athanasian creed date from the late 8th century.

Martin Luther said there were three statements of faith, the Nicene Creed (Credo in unum deum, I believe in one god..), the Te Deum (Te Deum Laudamus,..., Thee, O Lord, we praise), and the Athanasian Creed. 

The creed starts:

It explains Trinity, in such a way to stand against positions such as Arianism. It has the filioque.

It ends

[[Acanthopholis]]

CATEGORIES: Ankylosauria

Acanthopolis (meaning "spiny scales") was an armoured ankylosaurian dinosaur. This quadrupedal (walked on four legs), plant-eating dinosaur had its armour in rows of oval plates set into its skin. It also had spikes jutting out of its neck and shoulder area along the spine. It was about 15 feet long (4 m) and weighed roughly 380 kg.

The first specimen was found in 1865 by fossil collector John Griffiths on the shoreline at Folkestone. The stratum was Cambridge Greensand, a formation in the Lower Cretaceous of southern England. At the time England was part of a huge tropical river delta, and the Greensand was laid down just offshore. It seems that dinosaurs were on the shoreline or the river delta, and sometimes their bodies washed out to sea.

[[Noasaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Ceratosaurs, Dinosaurs of South America, Cretaceous dinosaurs

Noasaurus was a small meat-eating dinosaur. It lived at a time when some of the biggest dinosaurs ever to live were roaming South America. Although it had some of the same characteristics as raptors that lived in North America and Asia, it was not a close relative. This little hunter is a good example of how dinosaurs filled lots of roles in the environment. Not only were dinosaurs the biggest hunters, but they were also among the smallest.

It was discovered by Jaime Powell and José Bonaparte in northwestern Argentina. Its unique foot claw has caused a great deal of discussion regarding the evolutionary lineage of this dinosaur.

[[Astrodon]]

CATEGORIES: Sauropods

Astrodon (meaning "star-tooth") was a long-necked plant-eating dinosaur, a relation of Brachiosaurus. The sauropod was about 30 feet (9 m) long. It lived during the Lower Cretaceous period, about 130 million to 120 million years ago. Astrodon is known from teeth and scattered bones found in Maryland. Astrodon is the state dinosaur of Maryland. Astrodon was named by Johnston in 1859. The type species is A. johnstoni. Astrodon may be the same as Pleurocoelus.

Carpenter and Tidwell (2005) accepted Hatcher's argument that there is only one species of sauropod dinosaur known from the Arundel Formation and that Astrodon johnstoni is it. Interestingly, the majority of the bones of Astrodon are of juveniles, and Carpenter and Tidwell considered the two species named by Marsh, P. nanus and P. altus, as different growth stages of Astrodon johnstoni.

[[Dirty]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Dirty could mean:

[[Mill (currency)]]

CATEGORIES: Currency of North America

A mill, mil or mille is 1/10th of a US cent or 1/1000th of a US Dollar. In the United States, it is most used in gasoline prices.  For example $4.119 per US gallon.  $0.009 is equal to nine mils. It is also used when discussing taxes on land and prices of electricity.

[[OpenSUSE]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, X86-64 Linux distributions

openSUSE (ˌoʊpɛnˈsuːzə) is a community project, sponsored by Novell and AMD, to develop and maintain a general purpose Linux distribution. After taking over SUSE Linux in January 2004, Novell decided to release the SUSE Linux Professional product as a 100% open source project, involving the community in the development process.  The initial release was a beta version of SUSE Linux 10.0, and as of Janury 2016 the current stable release is openSUSE Leap 42.1

[[Boer War]]

Boer War might mean:

[[Pioneer movement]]

CATEGORIES: Communism, Youth organizations

Pioneer movements are movements for children and adolescents. They were founded in countries where there is a Communist party. Many of the ideas are taken from the scout movement.

In most socialist countries, people can choose if they want to be members of the pioneer movement or not. There are many differences between a pioneer movement, and the scout movement. Scout movements are independent of governments. They are also not controlled by the state. For example, there were no separate organizations for boys and girls. During the time of the USSR, thousands of Young Pioneer camps and Young Pioneer Palaces were built. These could only be used by Young Pioneers. The camps and palaces were also free of charge, it did not cost any money to use them. The government and trade unions sponsored them. There were many newspapers and magazines published for Young Pioneers. Some sold millions of copies.

Certain features, however, are similar to the Scout movement. The two movements share some principles like preparedness and promotion of sports and outdoor skills. The pioneer movement also includes teaching of communist principles. Opponents of Communist states claim that this is a form of indoctrination.

A member of the movement is known as a pioneer, and a scarf – typically red, but sometimes light blue – is the traditional item of clothing worn by a pioneer. The pioneer organization is often named after a famous party member that is considered a suitable role model for young communists. 

In the USSR it was Lenin; in East Germany, it was Ernst Thälmann. The Thälmann pioneers were taught the slogan "Ernst Thälmann is my role model. We wear our red scarf with pride."Albania, which had severed diplomatic relations with the USSR since 1961, also had a certain variant of Pioneer organization, called Pioneers of Enver, named after the communist ruler of Albania, Enver Hoxha.

Today, the following countries have pioneer movements:

Older children could continue in other communist organizations, but that would typically be done only by a limited number of people.

[[Peter Lalor]]

CATEGORIES: 1827 births, 1889 deaths, Irish politicians, Politicians from Victoria (Australia), Legislative speakers, Australian activists, People from Ballarat

Peter Lalor (February 5, 1827 – February 9, 1889) was the leader of the Eureka Stockade rebellion, one of Australia's few violent protests and seen by many as the start of democracy in Australia. He later became an important politician in Victoria.

Lalor was born at Tenakill, Queens County, Ireland into a large family, active in Irish politics. His father Patrick, represented Queens County in the House of Commons. Peter was educated in Dublin and became a civil engineer. With political unrest in Ireland, and the chance of getting rich in on the Australian goldfields, he left Ireland with his brother, Richard, and went to Victoria, Australia, in 1852. They worked on building the railway between Melbourne and Geelong. In 1853 Peter went to the Ovens River looking for gold, and Richard went back to Ireland where he later became a member of parliament. Peter Lalor went into business selling wine and tobacco in Melbourne, but decided to go to Ballarat to look for gold in 1854. He set up camp on the Eureka Lead, at East Ballarat, which was settled by many miners from Ireland.

[[Knoppix]]

CATEGORIES: Knoppix, Debian-based Linux distributions

Knoppix, or KNOPPIX, is a Linux distribution based on Debian designed to be started directly from a CD / DVD. Knoppix is one of the best-known LiveDistros. It was developed by Linux consultant Klaus Knopper. When starting a program it is loaded from the optical disc and decompressed into a RAM drive. The decompression is transparent and on-the-fly.

[[Johor]]

CATEGORIES: States of Malaysia, 14th century establishments in Asia, Establishments in Malaysia

Johor (last time known as Johore, Jawi script: جوهر) is a state of Malaysia. It is one of the most developed states in Malaysia. The capital city and royal seat of Johor is Johor Bahru, once known as Tanjung Puteri. The old state capital is Johor Lama. The Arabic honorific of the state is Darul Ta'zim ("Abode of Dignity'). Johor is surrounded by Pahang to the north, Melaka and Negeri Sembilan to the northwest, and the Straits of Johor to the south which is divided by the international border between Malaysia and the Republic of Singapore. Tanjung Piai, in the district of Pontian, is the most southerly point of mainland Asia.

[[Clavicle]]

CATEGORIES: Bones, Torso

The clavicle is a long bone that is part of the shoulder. It connects the arm to the main part of the body. It is a support for the scapula bone and helps the arm to hang freely. This allows the arm to have a lot of movement. The clavicle is made from sponge-like bone, called cancellous bone, and is covered with a hard shell of bone. Most mammals and many other land vertebrates have clavicles.

[[Emergency contraception]]

CATEGORIES: Human sexuality

Emergency contraception is a form of contraception that can be taken by the woman after sex. Emergency contraception can not protect against sexually transmitted diseases. Emergency contraception may prevent a pregnancy. The drugs that are used for emergency contraception are based on hormones. 

Emergency contraception needs to be applied soon after the unprotected sex. If it is not applied within about 3 days (72 hours) after the event, it will no longer help to prevent pregnancy. The sooner the drug is taken after unprotected sex, the more effective it is.

The drugs work by either:

It is estimated that these drugs may prevent 85% of expected pregnancies.

The drugs will not work if the woman is already pregnant.  The drugs will also not work for preventing pregnancy from unprotected sex again in the same menstrual cycle.

Emergency contraception is illegal in some countries and for some circumstances (for example, outside the context of rape). Often the drugs are available in pharmacies. In some countries, the affected person needs to talk to a healthcare professional (a doctor or a pharmacist). After this counseling, the drugs can be obtained.

Note that this is different from pills containing Mifepristone, which are taken during the pregnancy, as a form of abortion.

[[Reason]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

Reason or reasoning is a way of thinking that uses logic and facts.  People can use reason to decide what is true or best.  It is different from obeying tradition or emotions to decide what things are best or true.  In common English, it is using your head instead of your heart.  

Reason has been an important part of philosophy since Ancient Greece.  Many philosophers have thought about what reason is, and how to think using reason (Logic). Also, they have thought if religious thinking and faith are ways of reasoning, what we can know if we only use reason (Epistemology), and if animals or computers can think using reason. 

[[Paul Kruger]]

CATEGORIES: 1825 births, 1904 deaths, Afrikaner people, People of the Boer Wars, Presidents (government), South African military people, South African politicians

Stephanus Johannes Paulus Kruger (or just Paul Kruger) (10 October 1825–14 July 1904) was the president of the South African Republic (sometimes incorrectly referred to as the Transvaal) from 1883 to 1900. He became famous for leading the Boers against the British at the time of the Second Boer War.

[[Bridgeview, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, 1947 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in Illinois

Bridgeview is a village in Illinois in the United States.  It is the home of the Major League Soccer team the Chicago Fire.

[[Xfce]]

CATEGORIES: Desktop Environments

Xfce (ɛf siː iː) is a free software desktop environment for Unix and other Unix-like platforms, such as Linux, Solaris and BSD. It is made to be fast and lightweight, while still looking nice and easy to use.

The current version, 4.12, is modular and reusable. It is based on the GTK+ 2 toolkit (formerly used in GNOME). It uses the Xfwm window manager, described below. Its configuration is entirely mouse-driven, and the configuration files are hidden from the casual user.

[[Jammu region]]

CATEGORIES: Divisions of Jammu and Kashmir

Jammu Region (जम्मू) is one of the three regions comprising Kashmir's southernmost area of Indian-administered Jammu and Kashmir. Jammu division borders Vale of Kashmir, the disputed part of the state, to the north, Ladakh region to the east, and Himachal Pradesh to the south. Sandwiched between the Vale of Kashmir to the north and the Daman Koh Plains to the south, the Margalla hills range of the foothills of the Himalayas which comprises most of the disputed region in Jammu. The Pir Panjal Range, the Trikuta Hills and the low-lying Tawi River of the branch Chenab River basin add beauty and diversity to the terrain of Jammu.

Jammu, the winter capital of the maharajas and second largest city in the territory, was traditionally the seat of Dogra power. Of the total population of Jammu, more than two-thirds are classed as Dogra Hindus. Of these, the greater number live in the southeastern portion of the state. Culturally, ethnically, and linguistically, they are closely related to the Punjabi-speaking peoples in Punjab region of India and Pakistan. Majority speaks the Dogri language. The majority of the state’s Sikhs also live in the Jammu region. To the north-west, however, the proportion of Muslims increases, with Muslims making up a dominant majority in the area around the western town of Poonch District.

[[Linux Mint]]

CATEGORIES: Ubuntu (operating system) derivatives

Linux Mint is a Linux distribution for desktop computers based on and compatible with Debian or Ubuntu.

While at the core Linux Mint is mostly based on Ubuntu, the design of the desktop and User interface are very different. These differences include a very unique desktop theme, a custom Linux Mint menu and the MintTools, a collection of system tools designed to make managing the computer easier for users.

[[1991-92 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s in North America

The 1991–92 NHL season was the 75th regular season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-two teams each played 80 games. The Stanley Cup winners were the Pittsburgh Penguins, who won the best of seven series 4–0 against the Chicago Blackhawks. The championship was the second in a row for the Penguins.

[[Dilong (dinosaur)]]

CATEGORIES: Tyrannosaurids

Dilong ('emperor dragon') is a genus of small carnivorous dinosaur. The only known species is Dilong paradoxus. It is from Lower Cretaceous near Lujiatun, Beipiao, in the western Liaoning province of China It lived about 130 million years ago.

The animal had a covering of simple feathers or protofeathers. The feathers were seen in fossilized skin impressions from near the jaw and tail. They are not identical to modern bird feathers: they lack a central shaft. Their likely function was to retain body warmth. They could not have been used for flight. Adult tyrannosaurs found in Alberta and Mongolia have skin impressions which appear to show the pebbly scales typical of other dinosaurs. 

[[1990–91 NHL season]]

The 1990–91 NHL season was the 74th regular season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-one teams each played 80 games. The Stanley Cup winners were the Pittsburgh Penguins, who won the best of seven series 4–2 against the Minnesota North Stars. The North Stars defeated the Edmonton Oilers to become the first Norris Division team to appear in the Stanley Cup Finals since all the teams were moved around in 1981. The championship was the first in Penguins history. A record high 92 playoff games were held, and for the first time since the 1973 playoffs, no team was beat in four games in a playoff series.

This was the last NHL season to end in the month of May.

[[Eddie Giacomin]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Detroit Red Wings players, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, New York Rangers players, Vezina Trophy winners, American Hockey League players, Eastern Hockey League players

Edward Giacomin (born June 6, 1939 in Sudbury, Ontario) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played for the New York Rangers and Detroit Red Wings in the National Hockey League, as well as for the Providence Reds of the American Hockey League. Giacomin's sweater number, #1, was the second one retired by the Rangers, after Rod Gilbert.

[[World Hockey Association]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 establishments in North America, 1979 disestablishments in North America, World Hockey Association

The World Hockey Association (Association mondiale de hockey) was a professional ice hockey league that operated in North America from 1972 to 1979. It was the first major competition for the National Hockey League (NHL) since the end of the Western Hockey League after the 1925-26 WHL season. Although the WHA was not the first league since that time to attempt to challenge the NHL's hold as the top league, it was by far the most successful. 

[[National Hockey Association]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 establishments in Canada, 1918 disestablishments, 20th century disestablishments in Canada, Defunct ice hockey leagues, Ice hockey leagues in Canada

The National Hockey Association (NHA), officially the National Hockey Association of Canada Limited,  was a professional ice hockey league with teams in Ontario and Quebec, Canada. It is directly related to today's National Hockey League.

[[Gray]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Gray or grey is the color of black and white mixed together. 

Gray is the color of an elephant, cement, pencil writing, and rainy clouds. Gray often looks like someone made black lighter, but not so light that it is white. 

Grey color represents neutrality and balance. 

In the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, South Africa, India, Ireland, and New Zealand, as well as a few other countries, this word is spelled grey. In the United States, it is spelled gray.

The first recorded use of gray as a color name in English was in 700. 

[[Cent (currency)]]

CATEGORIES: Currency, Abraham Lincoln

September 2020September 2020

In many currencies, the cent is a monetary unit that is the same as 1/100 of the normal unit. In the United States, it is also called a penny. The penny has the image of Abraham Lincoln on it.

[[Gilles Villemure]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Eastern Hockey League players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, New York Rangers players, Living people, Trois-Rivières, Quebec

Gilles Villemure (born May 30, 1940, in Trois-Rivières, Quebec, Canada) is a retired Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender.  He played for the New York Rangers and Chicago Black Hawks in the 1960s and 1970s.

[[Gary Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Minnesota North Stars players, Oakland Seals players, People from Ottawa, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Vancouver Canucks players, Washington Capitals players, World Hockey Association players

Gary "Suitcase" Smith (born February 4, 1944) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender, was born in Ottawa, Ontario, on February 4, 1944. Gary is a son of Des Smith and brother of Brian Smith, both former National Hockey League (NHL) players. Gary played for numerous clubs, including the Chicago Black Hawks, Oakland Seals, Toronto Maple Leafs, Vancouver Canucks, Washington Capitals and Winnipeg Jets. He was the co-winner of the Vezina Trophy in the 1971–72 NHL season.

[[Cent]]

Cent could mean:

[[Richard Sevigny]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, People from Montreal, Quebec Nordiques players, Stanley Cup champions, Vezina Trophy winners

Richard Sevigny (November 4, 1957 in Montreal, Quebec) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played for the Montreal Canadiens and Quebec Nordiques in the National Hockey League. In the 1979 Stanley Cup Finals Michel Larocque was scheduled to start game two.  Laroque was injured during the pre-game warm up and Sevigny was started instead. The Canadiens would win that year and Sevigny's name was engraved on the Stanley Cup before ever playing an NHL game.  In the off season Ken Dryden retired, and Richard Sevigny earned a spot on the roster for the 1979–80 NHL season. Richard won the 1981 Vezina Trophy along with Denis Herron and Michel Larocque with Montreal. After being released by the Canadiens in 1984, Sevigny spent the next three seasons between the Quebec Nordiques and their American Hockey League affiliate in Fredericton, New Brunswick before finishing his career in France.  He was, before 1990–91, player-coach of the Diables Rouges de Briançon.  

According to hockey legends, Sevigny was quoted as saying that Guy Lafleur would have Wayne Gretzky in his back pocket during the 1981 playoffs, a quote that motivated the Oilers team to victory over the fabled Habs.

Sevigny has involved himself in old-timers charity hockey games and has coached the semi-pro Verdun Dragons.

[[Te Deum]]

CATEGORIES: Christian hymns, Christian prayers

The Te Deum is a Christian hymn. Its original text was Latin. It is named after the first few words, Te Deum laudamus (We praise thee, O Lord). It was probably written around the 4th or 5th century. Most say that either Augustine of Hippo or Ambrose wrote it. Some say it was by Nicetas, bishop of Remesiana. Others have said that the hymn was taken from two (or more) earlier hymns: one to God the Father and another to God the Son. After this idea, the second hymn begins with the phrase Tu rex gloriae, Christe. The petitions at the end of the hymn (beginning Salvum fac populum tuum) are from verses from the book of Psalms, added to the original hymn later on.

Te Deum is close in theology to the Apostles' Creed. It has both a poetic view of the heavenly liturgy with a declaration of faith.

"God" is named from the start of the song. The hymn then names all people who praise and respect God, from the hierarchy of heavenly creatures, to Christians who are already in heaven, to the Church in all the world.

Te Deum then returns to its creedal formula, singing about Christ and remembering His birth, suffering, and glorification.

Then the hymn stops singing about praise, both the Church in general and the singer himself, and asks for mercy on past sins, protection from future sin, and the hope to be reunited with Christians in Heaven.

[[Denis Herron]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Kansas City Scouts players, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Pittsburgh Penguins players, Trois-Rivières Ducs players, Vezina Trophy winners

Denis Herron (born June 18, 1952 in Chambly, Quebec) is a former Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played for the Montreal Canadiens, Kansas City Scouts, and Pittsburgh Penguins in the National Hockey League.

Denis won the 1981 Vezina Trophy with Montreal along with Michel Larocque and Richard Sevigny and in 1982 he won the William M. Jennings Trophy with Rick Wamsley.

[[John Hunter]]

CATEGORIES: 1737 births, 1821 deaths, Admirals, Governors of New South Wales, Royal Navy officers, Scottish politicians

John Hunter (29 August 1737 – 13 March 1821), was a Royal Navy admiral who became the second Governor of New South Wales.

[[Good and bad]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics, Philosophical concepts

The words "good" and "bad" are a basic way of talking about value or ethics. They are often used in different ways to talk about things, people, ideas, or actions as being either good or bad. Many questions about the concepts of "good" and "bad" are studied by philosophers. There are many different beliefs about what is good or bad, or about what the two words really mean. These differences can often be seen in different cultures and religions.

[[Catechism of the Catholic Church]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholicism

The  Catechism of the Catholic Church, or CCC, is an official explanation of the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church. It was first published in French in 1992 by the authority of Pope John Paul II. The volume, which is a book of over 900 pages, has been translated into many other languages, including English. In 1997, a Latin text was made. The Latin text is now the official text of reference the contents of the first French text were amended at a few points.

The Compendium of the Catechism of the Catholic Church was published in 2005, and the first edition in English in 2006. It is a more concise and dialogic (written like a conversation) version of the CCC. The text is available in twelve languages on the Vatican website, which gives the text of the Catechism itself in eight languages.

[[Derek Jeter]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, American baseball players, New York Yankees players, Major League Baseball shortstops, Sportspeople from New Jersey, Sportspeople from Michigan, People from Kalamazoo, Michigan, American League All-Stars

Derek Jeter (born June 26, 1974 in Pequannock Township, New Jersey) is a retired American Major League Baseball player. He played as the captain for the New York Yankees and is an eleven-time All-Star shortstop for the New York Yankees.

Jeter made his major league debut on May 29, 1995 with the New York Yankees against the Seattle Mariners when he was 20 years old. He had been playing with the New York Yankees for 20 years ever since he made it to the majors. He has won many awards such as the American League Rookie of the Year Award, a Silver Slugger Award, and three Gold Glove Awards. In the year 2000, Jeter became the only player to win both the All-Star Game MVP Award and the World Series MVP Award in the same year.

[[Boston Braves]]

Boston Braves may mean to any of the following American professional sports teams:

[[Task]]

CATEGORIES: Human behavior, Problem solving

In common language, a task is something you want to accomplish or finish, such as trying to complete a problem or an assignment. 

[[D. James Kennedy]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2007 deaths, American Presbyterians, Christian ministers, People from Augusta, Georgia, Television evangelists

Dennis James Kennedy (or  D. James Kennedy, November 3, 1930 - September 5, 2007) was an American televangelist and megachurch pastor. He started Coral Ridge Presbyterian Church in Fort Lauderdale, Florida and was the senior pastor there from 1960 until his death in 2007. He began Coral Ridge Ministries in 1974.

== Other websites == 

[[In Touch Ministries]]

CATEGORIES: Christian organizations based in the United States, Evangelicalism

In Touch Ministries is an American Christian Evangelical organization started by Charles F. Stanley. Its  mission statement was to "lead people worldwide into a growing relationship with Jesus Christ and to strengthen the local church." 

[[Parramatta]]

CATEGORIES: Sydney, 1788 establishments in Australia

Parramatta is a suburb 23 kilometres west of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Parramatta sits on the bank of the Parramatta River and is in the middle of the Sydney metropolitan area. Parramatta has many facilities such as transport (a major railway station and numerous buses including a free shuttle) and shops (a large shopping centre with major stores such as Woolworths and Coles and many individual stores). It is often a very busy city.

[[Shortstop]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball positions

Shortstop (abbreviated as SS) is a fielding position played in baseball. Shortstop is between second and third base.

[[List of Major League Baseball teams by payroll]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball teams, Baseball lists

This is a list of Major League Baseball teams, ranked by their total salary as of 2008.

[[Dave Mustaine]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, American rock guitarists, Megadeth, Metallica, People with cancer, Singers from California, Musicians from California, American heavy metal musicians, American Christians

David Mustaine (born September 13, 1968 in La Mesa, California) is the lead guitarist, songwriter and singer for the heavy metal band Megadeth. Mustaine was also a former Metallica guitarist and co-songwriter in the band's early history. He was fired from the band due to his drug and alcohol addictions.  

[[Darling River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of New South Wales

The Darling River is Australia's longest river. It is part of the Murray-Darling river system, one of the largest in the world, drains all of New South Wales west of the Great Dividing Range, much of northern Victoria, southern Queensland and parts of South Australia.

[[Kanfen]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Moselle

Kanfen is a village in France near Thionville. It is in the Lorraine Region, in the Moselle department, in north-eastern France. The population as of 2007 is about 996.

[[Erasmus Darwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1731 births, 1802 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British abolitionists, Darwin family, English activists, English botanists, English evolutionary biologists, English inventors, English naturalists, English physicians, English poets, Fellows of the Royal Society, Members of the Lunar Society, People from Nottinghamshire

Erasmus Darwin (12 December 1731 – 18 April 1802) was a English scientist, poet, inventor and medical doctor. He was a member of the Lunar Society (a group of important scientists and businessmen who were friends). Erasmus Darwin looked at how living things evolved (change over a long time). His grandson, Charles Darwin, later wrote a book that explained evolution by natural selection.

Erasmus Darwin House, his home in Lichfield, is now a museum dedicated to Erasmus Darwin and his life's work. A school in nearby Chasetown recently converted to Academy status and is now known as Erasmus Darwin Academy.

[[Kowloon]]

CATEGORIES: Hong Kong, Geography of Hong Kong

Kowloon (ˌ; 九龍) is one of the 3 main parts of Hong Kong. It comprises the Kowloon Peninsula and New Kowloon. With a population of 2.1 million in 2011. it is the most populous area in Hong Kong. 

[[New Territories]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Hong Kong

New Territories (新界) is one of the 3 main parts of Hong Kong. It is between Kowloon and the border between Hong Kong and Mainland China. It also includes over 200 outlying Islands. About 3.5 million people live there. It makes up 85% of Hong Kong's territory, and contains around half of the population of Hong Kong.

[[San Luis Potosí]]

CATEGORIES: San Luis Potosí, States of Mexico

San Luis Potosí is a state in central Mexico. About 2,400,000 people live there. Its capital is also called San Luis Potosí.

[[Morelos]]

CATEGORIES: States of Mexico, 1869 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Mexico

engoffboxa. The state's GDP was 96,736,678 thousand of pesos in 2008, amount corresponding to 7,557,552.968 thousand of dollars, being a dollar worth 12.80 pesos (value of June 3, 2010).

Morelos is a state in central Mexico. About 1,600,000 people live in Morelos. Its capital is called Cuernavaca.

[[Michoacán]]

CATEGORIES: Michoacán, States of Mexico

Michoacán is a state in south-west Mexico. About 4,000,000 people live there. Its capital is Morelia.

[[Paul Pena]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2005 deaths, Blues musicians, Singers from Massachusetts, American guitarists, Musicians from Massachusetts

Paul Pena (January 26, 1950 – October 1, 2005) was an American singer, songwriter and guitarist. Pena was completely blind by the time he was 20.

[[Creole language]]

CATEGORIES: Pidgins and creoles

A creole language (or a creole) is a language that comes from a pidgin. Creoles seem very similar to each other, even if they come from different languages. There is not a widely accepted theory that explains why this happens.

[[Baseball uniform]]

CATEGORIES: Uniforms, Sports clothing, Baseball equipment, History of baseball

A baseball uniform is clothing that baseball players wear during games.  Like other uniforms, it identifies the group in which they are members, in this case their baseball team.  Most baseball uniforms have the last names and uniform numbers of players who wear them.  The names and numbers are usually on the back to identify each player.  Baseball shirts, pants, shoes, socks, caps, and helmets are parts of the uniform.  Players also wear gloves, but they are not part of the uniform, because players can choose their own gloves. Most uniforms have different logos and colors to show which team it is.

Baseball uniforms were first worn by the New York Knickerbockers Baseball Club in the 1840s. Their uniforms were pants made of blue wool, white flannel shirts and straw hats. Since then, the uniforms have gone through many changes. More items, ideas, and many other improvements were done and added to these uniforms over the years. Their style also changed, little by little over time.

[[Guerrero (state)]]

CATEGORIES: Guerrero (state), States of Mexico

Guerrero is a state in south Mexico. About 3,100,000 people live there. Its capital is called Chilpancingo.

[[Coahuila]]

CATEGORIES: Coahuila, States of Mexico

Coahuila is a state in north Mexico. About 2,500,000 people live there. Its capital is called  Saltillo.

[[Durian]]

CATEGORIES: Tropical fruit, Malvaceae

A durian is a big fruit with a strong smell and a hard shell with sharp thorns. Its flavour is loved by some people, especially in Southeast Asia, where people name it "King of Fruits". Many hotels and public transportation systems do not let people carry durians because of the strong smell, which many people find unpleasant.

There are many different kinds of durian that are priced differently due to the people's preferences. 

[[Hidalgo (state)]]

CATEGORIES: Hidalgo (state), States of Mexico

Hidalgo is a state in central Mexico. About 2,350,000 people live there. Its capital is called Pachuca.

[[Getdeb]]

CATEGORIES: Linux

Getdeb is an Ubuntu software portal with ready-to-install applications in Ubuntu's default .deb package format. Getdeb.net was created by João Pinto to make it easy for Ubuntu users to install the latest versions of Free/Open Source applications quickly and easily.

[[Los Angeles Angels]]

CATEGORIES: Los Angeles Angels, 1961 establishments in the United States, 1960s establishments in California

The Los Angeles Angels are a Major League Baseball team. They are based in Anaheim, California. They are a member of the West Division of Major League Baseball's American League. The "Angels" name is from the city that they came from: Los Angeles. "Los Angeles" is Spanish for "The Angels". They were previously known as the California Angels, the Anaheim Angels,  and the Los Angles Angels of Anaheim. They have won one World Series championship, which they won in 2002.

The Angels began playing in 1961. They were named for a former minor league baseball team called the Los Angeles Angels. The minor league Angels moved to another city when the Los Angeles Dodgers moved to Los Angeles in 1958.

The Angels' home stadium is called Angel Stadium of Anaheim. It has been their home ballpark since 1966. From 1962 to 1965, they played in Chavez Ravine Stadium. During their first season (1961), they played in Wrigley Field in Los Angeles. That Wrigley Field was built by the same people that owned the much more famous Wrigley Field in Chicago.

[[Deb (file format)]]

CATEGORIES: Debian

deb is the extension of the Debian software package format and the most often used name for such binary packages.

Debian packages are also used in operating systems based on Debian.

Debian packages are standard Unix ar archives that include two gzipped or bzipped tar archives: one that holds the control information and another that contains the data.

The canonical program for handling these packages is dpkg, most commonly via apt/aptitude.

deb packages can be converted into other packages and vice versa using Alien.

[[Deb]]

Deb or DEB may mean:

[[Y chromosome]]

CATEGORIES: Biological reproduction, Chromosomes

The Y chromosome is a chromosome that decides the sex in most mammals, including humans. It contains the gene SRY, which triggers testis development, so making an animal male or female.

Normal females have two X chromosomes, and normal males have one X and one Y. An egg always carries a single X, while sperms carry either an X or a Y. That is how sex is determined in humans. 

[[Ćevapčići]]

CATEGORIES: Albanian culture, Bosnia and Herzegovina culture, Croatian culture, Kosovo, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbian culture, Slovenian culture, Meat dishes

Ćevapčići (plural form of Ćevapčić)  or Ćevapi (ʨɛ'va:pi) is a skinless meat sausage. They originally were made in the Balkans. it’s from Bosnia and Herzegovina and it can be found in the countries of what was Yugoslavia. The Czech Republic, Bulgaria and the Italian provinces of Trieste and Gorizia. Ćevapčići are served on a plate or in a flatbread (lepinja or somun). Chopped onions, sour cream, kaymak, ajvar, cottage cheese, and similar sauces are often added.

Macedonian ќебапчиња/ḱebapčinja; from Skopje are made of equal parts of beef and pork, minced together, seasoned, grilled and served on a plate with fries and fresh minced onions, accompanied with sour cream and spices. It can also be served in a thin bun called lepinja, similar to the Turkish Pide. The traditional, and preferred, way of grilling ćevapčići is to use glowing coals beneath a grill. The expressions ćevapčići or Kebapi are both common in parts of North Macedonia, whereas in Skopje, the capital, from where ćevapčići spread all over the world, ćevapčići is the only traditional expression.  Although ćevapčići is a formal diminutive, ćevapčići from Leskovac are longer (10–12 cm) than Bosnian ćevapi (5–8 cm). The Leskovac recipe was the one that became popular in Belgrade during the 19th century and then spread all over Yugoslavia, Europe and United States. 

Bosnian ćevapi from the Baščaršija district of Sarajevo and Banja Luka is probably the most famous ćevapi. Travnik and Tuzla are known for their ćevapi made of beef stewed with spices. This dish is very popular in some parts of what was formerly Yugoslavia as well. The stew is poured on lepinja or somun flatbread with a few chunks of. Banja Luka is known for ćevapi which are multiple rolls (usually four) joined together. Bosnian ćevapi are made from two types of minced beef meat, hand mixed and formed with a funnel. Once they are formed, ćevapi are grilled. 

Bulgarian ḱebapi (ќебапи) are made of both pork and beef.  A serving usually consists of 5-10 pieces, served with white bread, minced red pepper, salt and onions. 

In Romania, the Ćevapčići are called Mititei.

In Czech Republic/Slovakia čevapčiči is generally served with mustard, raw onions and potatoes.

[[Louise Farrenc]]

CATEGORIES: 1804 births, 1875 deaths, Romantic composers, French composers, Women composers, French pianists, Musicians from Paris, Musicologists

Louise Farrenc (born Paris, 31 May 1804;  died 15 September 1875) was a French composer, virtuoso pianist and teacher.  She was very well-known during her lifetime, but her best compositions are not very well known.  This is because the way to become a famous composer in France in the 19th century was by writing operas, but Farrenc never wrote operas.  Her best compositions are chamber music.

[[64 Studio]]

CATEGORIES: X86-64 Linux distributions, Free software, Debian-based Linux distributions

64 Studio is a free Linux distribution based on Debian made for creative users on x86-64 and legacy 32-bit hardware architectures.  It is made to serve as an all-in-one solution for audio and video recording, editing, and other forms of media production.

Since 64 Studio is distributed with a free software license, anyone with a 64-bit computer can install it on their computer (in place of or alongside the well-known Windows operating system). An alternative installer is available for systems with 32-bit processors.

[[LAA]]

LAA may mean:

[[AbulÉdu]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

AbulÉdu is a French Linux distribution made for classrooms. It is based on Debian and it includes the Linux Terminal Server Project and a large number of educational applications.

[[Utah State University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Utah, Mountain West Conference, 1888 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Utah

Utah State University (USU) is a public university in Logan, Utah, United States. The university was started in 1888.

[[British Medical Journal]]

CATEGORIES: Journals, Weekly magazines

The British Medical Journal (BMJ) is a popular peer-reviewed general medical journal. It is published by the BMJ Publishing Group in London. There is an online version.

[[DNA (newspaper)]]

CATEGORIES: English-language newspapers published in India, 2005 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in India

Daily News and Analysis (DNA) is a English language newspaper published from Mumbai. It was launched on July 30, 2005. DNA is Mumbai's fastest growing newspaper. The newspaper has a liberal outlook.

[[Baltix]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions, Baltic states, Latvia, Lithuania

Baltix GNU/Linux is a Linux distribution aimed to be a complete, user-friendly operating system for Lithuanian and Latvian people, based on Debian and Ubuntu. Supported languages include Lithuanian, Latvian, Estonian, Russian, English, Norwegian and others near and around the Baltic region. The main language is Lithuanian.

It uses the GNOME desktop environment and is distributed as an installable Live CD.

The first public versions of Baltix GNU/Linux were released in 2003 and were based on Knoppix Live CD and Debian software packages, and later, on the Ubuntu operating system.

[[The Times of India]]

CATEGORIES: English-language newspapers published in India

The Times of India is an English language newspaper published in India. On November 3, 1838 the newspaper was founded as The Bombay Times and Journal of Commerce, and, in 1861, it was renamed The Times of India. The newspaper has a conservative outlook.

With about 2.6 million copies sold each weekday, The Times of India is the bestselling newspaper in the world. The second bestselling newspaper in the world, USA Today, sells about 2.25 million copies each weekday.

[[Hindustan Times]]

CATEGORIES: English-language newspapers published in India

Hindustan Times is a English language newspaper published in India. It has simultaneous editions from New Delhi, Mumbai, Lucknow, Patna, Ranchi and Kolkata. The newspaper has a centrist outlook.

[[The Statesman]]

CATEGORIES: English-language newspapers published in India

The Statesman is a English language newspaper published in India. It is published simultaneously from Kolkata, New Delhi, Siliguri and Bhubaneshwar.

[[Live CD]]

CATEGORIES: Live CD

A Live CD, Live DVD, or Live Distro is a special way of creating a computer operating system so that it is able to run without installing anything on the computer first. This special operating system is used when the computer is booting up, and runs all its programs off the object it is put on. The name of the operating system usually has something to do with the object, such as "Live CD" for CDs, "Live DVD" for DVDs, or "Live USB" for USB flash drives.

"Distro" is short for Distribution, and is used because different types of Linux operating systems are called Linux Distributions, and Linux Distros were the first operating systems to be made into Live CDs. A "Live Distro" is used to refer to all different kinds of these special operating systems, instead of just the ones on a certain object.

The word "live" is used to describe the special way that the operating system is set up so that it can run on a computer without needing to install anything first.

[[Deccan Herald]]

CATEGORIES: English-language newspapers published in India, 1948 establishments in Asia, 1940s establishments in India

The Deccan Herald is an English language newspaper published in Karnataka. The newspaper started in 1948.

[[PSV Eindhoven]]

CATEGORIES: 1910s establishments in the Netherlands, 1913 establishments in Europe, Dutch football clubs, Eindhoven

Philips Sport Vereniging (English: Philips Sports Union), widely known either as PSV or PSV Eindhoven, is a sports club from Eindhoven, Netherlands. It is best known for its professional football (soccer) section.

[[BeatrIX]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

BeatrIX is a GNU/Linux,live CD-based Linux distribution started by Steven Watsky, it was designed to look very simple, in order to be as easy to use as possible to new users. A new BeatrIX desktop has just four icons (e-mail, instant messaging, word processing and web browser). Hence, anyone who has some computer experience will be able to use BeatrIX.

BeatrIX is a small operating system, taking up only 200MB. The liveCD fits into 80 mm discs that can store up to 184 MB of data.

BeatrIX uses Linux 2.6.7 and GNOME 2.8 as its GUI desktop. It has productivity tools such as OpenOffice.org 1.1.2, Mozilla Firefox (version 1.0) web browser, Gaim (version 1.0), etc.

BeatrIX has been discontinued since 2005 due to Steven Watsky's lapse in health. Another distro called BeaFanatIX is using the code of BeatrIX and continuing development.

[[DeMuDi]]

CATEGORIES: Free software, Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

DeMuDi (Debian Multimedia Distribution) was a Linux distribution based on Debian with improvements for music, sound and video production. 

DeMuDi was developed by the AGNULA Project, a European Union funded project to improve access to multimedia software, and was also known as A/DeMuDi, with A standing for Agnula.

When funding stopped volunteers continued to work on the project for a short time, but now it is part of the Debian Multimedia Project.

[[Dreamlinux]]

CATEGORIES: Debian-based Linux distributions

Dreamlinux was a Linux distribution, a collection of computer programs that is designed for the use of the Linux operating system on a computer.  The Dreamlinux distribution was made in Brazil, and is based on Debian, another commonly-used Linux distribution.  Dreamlinux can be used in Portuguese.

[[Cluniac Reforms]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholicism, Middle Ages

The Cluniac (Clunian) Reform was a series of changes within medieval monasticism. The reforms focused on restoring the traditional life in the monasteries. Monasteries should encourage the production of artworks. They should also care for the poor. 

The reform is named after the Abbey of Cluny in Burgundy. It started in the Benedictine order there. The reform was largely carried out by Saint Odo. It spread through France (Burgundy, Provence, Auvergne, Poitou), England and much of Italy and Spain.  

The reform was stated, because there was corruption in the Benedictine order. People thought this corruption came because people that were not priests and that came from outside the monasteries interfered with them. A Benetictine monastery needed land. This land was given by a Feudal lord. By giving the land, the lord would become the patron of the monastery.  However, he would often demand the right to interfere in the business of the monastery. The Cluny reform was an attempt to change this practice. A more independent abbot would have better success at enforcing the Rule of the order, it was thought.  William of Aquitaine formed the first Cluny monastery in 910 with the novel stipulation that the monastery would report directly to the pope rather than to a local lord. This meant essentially that the monastery would be independent, since the pope's authority was largely theoretical at that distance.   

During its height (about 950–c.1130) the Cluniac movement was one of the largest religious forces in Europe. Among the most notable reform supporters were Pope Urban II, Lambert of Hersfeld and Abbot Richard of Saint Vannes at Verdun. The Cluniacs were supporters of the  Peace of God concept, as well as pilgrimages to the Holy Lands.

[[Elive]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Live CD, Debian-based Linux distributions

Elive is a Linux distribution based on Debian 10 Buster both for legacy (old) and new hardware. Elive uses the desktop environment Enlightenment. Elive is a Linux Distribution with a Live CD and Persistent USB Image that allows the user to try Elive before installing it on the system and not lose any work.

[[Thomas and Friends]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s British television series, 1980s animated television series, 1980s television series debuts, 1984 television series debuts, 1990s British television series, 1990s television series debuts, 2000s British television series, 2000s television series debuts, 2010s British television series, 2010s television series debuts, Animated television series, Cartoon Network series, Channel 5 (UK) television programmes, Internet memes, PBS Kids shows, Television series about friendship, Thomas and Friends, English-language television programs

Thomas & Friends (originally known as Thomas the Tank Engine & Friends or simply Thomas the Tank Engine; later called Thomas & Friends: Big World! Big Adventures!) is a British children's television series. It was first broadcast on CITV in October 1984. It is based on The Railway Series books by the Rev. W. Awdry and his son, Christopher. The main character is Thomas the Tank Engine, a tank engine that is painted blue. The show takes place on the made-up island of Sodor. There are two main railways there. One of them is run by Sir Topham Hatt. The other one is a different size. Thomas runs on the main one (the one that is run by Sir Topham Hatt).

[[Feather Linux]]

CATEGORIES: Knoppix, Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

Feather Linux, created by Robert Sullivan, is a Knoppix-based Linux distribution which  fits in under 128 MB (while older versions were made to fit within 64 MB). It boots from either a CD or a USB Flash Drive, into a Fluxbox desktop environment. It has a wide range of desktop and rescue software, and can load entirely into RAM  or be installed to a hard drive. Feather Linux contains many GTK+ applications, such as AbiWord and Pidgin. Feather linux has tried to include software that people would frequently be using on their desktop.

With its most recent release being on 2005-07-04, Feather Linux is now not under development. This distribution is partly inspired by Damn Small Linux.

[[Trutnov]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the Czech Republic

Trutnov is a city in the Hradec Králové Region of the Czech Republic.

[[Rose window]]

CATEGORIES: Windows (architecture)

Rose window is a word used to describe a round window design, which  is similar to the many petals of a rose. Most often the term is used to describe the round windows of some churches, especially those built in Gothic style.

[[Ageing]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Gerontology

Ageing or aging is the many changes that happen in an individual over time. In living things, ageing includes most physical and psychological changes which happen after adulthood.

Senescence is the biological process which leads to ageing. There have been many attempts to answer the question: why do animals (especially humans) age?

In one way, ageing begins at birth, because cell division and growth is fastest then, and gradually slows down as time goes on.

In another way, ageing starts when the likelihood of death increases. Actuarial tables show the likelihood of death at each stage of life. These tables are used by insurance companies to assess the rates of insurance on life policies and pensions. It turns out that we are least likely to die when we are young adults. For girls this is as early as 14. The reason suggested by biologists (such as Peter Medawar and George C. Williams) is that this is the time most significant for reproduction, or was in mankind's past. The assumption is that the peak age of reproduction in mankind's history was lower than today. A gene can be expressed at various stages of life. Any allele of a gene which interfered with reproduction would have less chance of passing on to the next generation. The number of such genes in the population would automatically be reduced. Thus natural selection would virtually eliminate any inherited effect which reduced fertility.

However, later in life, inherited defects would have little or no effect on the population as a whole. In fact, during life our cells collect damage to their DNA which is random, but causes us to become gradually less fit as we age. And we have some cell types which never, or rarely, divide during adult life. Muscle cells and most neurons never divide in adult life. Obviously, they collect damage, and not just to the DNA. Also, we inherit various genetic conditions which have effect later in life, like Huntington's chorea. The twin effects of delayed heredity and buildup of damage is what makes us age. Protists do not age: they divide, and the next generation is just as good as the last. Why do even our dividing cells collect damage? The answer to that question is not known, but may be connected to a a cell division phenomenon.

[[Physical attractiveness]]

CATEGORIES: Society, Fitness

Physical attractiveness means the different characteristics of someone's physical appearance that different people consider to be beautiful in other humans. Physical attractiveness can also include sexual attractiveness, ideas about beauty, proportions, muscular development, and appearance. 

Physical attractiveness means different things to different people and to different human cultures. There is no single definition of physical attractiveness.

In men, physical attractiveness may include slim waist and height. Female physical attractiveness might include youth, waist-hip ratio, mid upper arm circumference, body mass proportion and facial symmetry.  

[[Souvenir]]

CATEGORIES: Tourism

A souvenir (from French, for memory), memento or keepsake is an object a traveler brings home for the memories created during a trip. It can be a postcard, statue, magnet or little things that represent the place. Often bought as a gift for family or friends to share the memory with them.

[[Panel]]

Panel could mean:

[[Jammu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Jammu and Kashmir, Capital cities in India

Jammu is a city in Jammu and Kashmir.  It is on the banks of the Tawi River which is a tributary of the Chenab River. The Dogri language is spoken here among Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs. Jammu is called ‘city of temples’ because the Hindu temples are in huge numbers there.

There is an archeological site called Manda in Jammu.

[[St. Stephan's Cathedral, Passau]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Bavaria, Cathedrals in Germany, Roman Catholic Cathedrals

St. Stephan's Cathedral  is a baroque Cathedral. It was finished in 1688 in Passau, Germany.  It is the seat of the Catholic Bishop of Passau and the main church of his diocese.

[[Binomial expansion]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

[[Pashto language]]

CATEGORIES: Iranian languages, Languages of Pakistan, Languages of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Languages of Afghanistan

Pashto (Pushto or Pakhto) is the official language of Afghanistan. It is spoken by the Pashtuns living in Afghanistan, Pakistan and India. It is the provincial language in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.  

Pashto belongs to the Indo-European languages family. It has two main dialects, western dialect and eastern dialect. The small difference between these two dialects is in the use of sounds.

[[Shina language]]

CATEGORIES: Dardic languages, Languages of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Languages of Jammu and Kashmir

Shina (also known as Tshina) is a Dardic language spoken by a some people in Gilgit Baltistan of Pakistan.

[[Boudry Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Burkina Faso

Boudry is a department or commune of Ganzourgou Province in Burkina Faso. Its capital is situated at the town of Boudry. According 1996 estimates, it has a population of 82,690.

[[Kogho Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Burkina Faso

Boudry is a department or commune of Ganzourgou Province in Burkina Faso. Its capital is situated at the town of Kogho. According 1996 estimates, it has a population of 15,524.

[[Méguet Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Burkina Faso

Méguet is a department or commune of Ganzourgou Province in Burkina Faso. Its capital is situated at the town of Méguet. According to 1996 estimates, it has a population of 34,668.

[[Mogtédo Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Burkina Faso

Mogtédo is a department or commune of Ganzourgou Province in Burkina Faso. Its capital is situated at the town of Méguet. According 1996 estimates, it has a population of 44,668.

[[Salogo Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Burkina Faso

Salogo is a department or commune of Ganzourgou Province in Burkina Faso. Its capital is the town of Salogo. According 2006 estimates, it has a population of 21,405.

[[Leh]]

CATEGORIES: Jammu and Kashmir

Leh is a city in the Leh District of Ladakh. It was the capital of the Himalayan kingdom of Ladakh. Leh is at an altitude of 3500, at a distance from the right bank of the Indus River.

The town is still dominated by the now ruined Leh Palace, former home of the royal family of Ladakh. The palace resembles a mini version of the Potala Palace in Tibet. Leh and other places of Ladakh are renowned for Buddhist culture and monasteries. The wonders of this land include golden statue of Buddha, high class paintings, ancient manuscripts and the monasteries. The famous moasteries include Hemis, Aalchi, Chuglamsar, Mulbekh, Shey, Spitak, and Thiksey. The mosque of Leh was built by prince Namgyal Singe in 1594. The mosque is a fine model of Turkish and Iranian architecture.

The first Muslim ruler of Kashmir, Sultan Sadruddin was a Ladakhi. His real name was Gialpo, (Prince) Renchan. He came down to Kashmir Valley in the reign of Raja Sahdev and acquired a place in the courtiers of the army Chief Ram Chandra. By and by he succeeded in rising to the throne in 1324. He married Ram Chandra's daughter Kotarani who later on proved to be a courageous and enterprising lady. King Renchan embraced Islam at the hands of a Muslim saint and preacher Abdur Rehman, Bulbul Shah and adopted the name of Sultan Saruddin for himself. He died in 1327 after ruling the country far a short period of 3 years.

A Mughal chieftain Haider Douglat attempted to invade Kashmir for the first time in 1542 through Ladakh. In June 1715, two Italian priests Epo Lito and Emanuel Khariray reached Leh from Rome via Srinagar. There is a small community of Christians in Leh now. In the past, Leh has been an important centre for trade between India and the states of Turkestan. A road leads to Central Asian countries from here through the Karakoram Pass.

[[Zam Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Burkina Faso

Zam is a department or commune of Ganzourgou Province in Burkina Faso. Its capital is situated at the town of Zam. According to 1996 estimates, it has a population of 39,259.

[[Zorgho Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Burkina Faso

Zorgho is a department or commune of Ganzourgou Province in Burkina Faso. Its capital is situated at the town of Zorgho. According 1996 estimates, it has a population of 49,648.

[[Srinagar]]

CATEGORIES: Srinagar, Capital cities in India

Srinagar (شرینگر, श्रीनगर) is a city in Jammu and Kashmir. It is situated on the banks of the Jhelum River, in Northern Indian occupied Kashmir region. It is the largest city and the summer capital of the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir.

[[Zoungou Department]]

CATEGORIES: Departments of Burkina Faso

Zoungou is a department or commune of Ganzourgou Province in Burkina Faso. Its capital is situated at the town of Zoungou. According 1996 estimates, it has a population of 29,753.

[[Ganzourgou Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Burkina Faso

Ganzourgou is a province of Burkina Faso. The province is divided into 8 departments:

[[Anantnag]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Jammu and Kashmir

Anantnag (Kashmiri: اننتناگ /Anaṁtnāg/, meaning abode of springs and lakes), is a city and a municipality located in the Anantnag District in the union territory  of Jammu and Kashmir, India. About 180,000 people live in Anantnag.

Anantnag is the third largest city of the Indian administered Jammu and Kashmir by population and largest according to area. It is also regarded as the commercial and financial capital of the Valley of Kashmir. It is the largest business and trading center of the valley.

[[Religions of Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Religion in Pakistan

Pakistan's official national religion is Islam, and about 97% of the people in Pakistan follow Islam.  But there are people of many other religions living in Pakistan.

[[Creston, Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iowa, County seats in Iowa

Creston is a city in and the county seat of Union County, Iowa, United States. The population was 7,597 at the 2000 census.

[[Fate (opera)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Leoš Janáček

Fate (in Czech: Osud), is an opera by the Czech composer Leoš Janáček. 

Janáček wrote this opera between 1903 and 1905. His daughter Olga had died shortly before he began to compose it. He had also just finished his opera Jenůfa which has a tragic ending for the young girl in the story.

The young lady who wrote the libretto (words) for Janáček had been one of his daughter’s close friends. She wrote using the name Tálská. Janáček thought the opera had autobiographical ideas. He also wanted a change from writing about simple, country people as he had done in Jenůfa, so the people in the story of Fate belong to the upper classes, the rich people of society.

The story of the opera is quite strange and unbelievable. It has often been criticized for not being logical. The story consists of lots of little scenes which make the story jump about. The language of the libretto is very deliberately old-fashioned. Czech people who have worked with this opera have often felt that this formal language has made it hard for audiences to understand. Some people have felt that when the opera is sung in other languages it is sometimes better because the language sounds more real.

Nevertheless, although the opera has had these criticisms, the music is some of the best music that Janáček wrote.

[[Dwarf Allosaur]]

CATEGORIES: Theropods, Dinosaurs of Australia

Dwarf Allosaur is a bone from a theropod dinosaur that lived in Australia about 106 million years ago in the Cretaceous period. It may be related to Allosaurus but is smaller and lived 30 million years after all other allosaurs had gone extinct. As it is known only from a single bone nothing more can be said.

Besides its poor fossil record, it is famous for appearing in the BBC television series Walking with Dinosaurs.

[[Social network service]]

CATEGORIES: Social networking, Technology

A social network is a website or service where people talk to, connect with another people. Social Network Service can connect people with the same interests (like football, schools, dogs) and friends. Most Social Networks will let you create a profile page with your pictures and information about yourself.

Social Networking was first proposed in the early development of the World Wide Web.

The most popular websites like Facebook and Twitter are helping to speed up the process of communication. Phone and mail services are slowly becoming less popular thanks to a quick and easy way of sharing messages through such networks.

A social network is used for people to get to know each other more and create new friends/connections. Social networks are also used to share things with other people.

Many Social Networks are available on phones and smartphones. Some companies are blocking access to such websites due to concerns over employees spending too much time on them.

A 2011 survey found that 47% of American adults use a social networking service.

[[Spa town]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns

A spa town, or simply spa, is a town that many people go to for health reasons.  There is usually a spring there, or several springs.  The water that comes from these springs is good for curing many illnesses.  When people go to a spa town to get better we say that they go to "take the waters".

The word "spa" comes from the Belgian town Spa. In continental Europe a spa was called a ville d'eau (town of water). The term spa is used for towns or resorts which offer hydrotherapy (making people better with water).  This can include cold water or mineral water treatments and hot spring baths.

[[List of Major League Baseball players]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball players, Lists of sportspeople, Baseball lists

This is a list of Major League Baseball players by last name.

[[Vallon-Pont-d'Arc]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Ardèche

Vallon-Pont-d'Arc is a commune of the Ardèche département in the southern part of France.

[[Ain]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Ain is a department in the east of France, in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It is named after the river Ain. Its prefecture is Bourg-en-Bresse.

[[Aisne]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Hauts-de-France

Aisne is a department in the north of France, in the Hauts-de-France region. It is named after the Aisne river, a tributary of the Oise. Its prefecture is Laon.

[[Allier]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes

Allier is a department in the centre of France, in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It is named after the river Allier, a tributary of the Loire. Its prefecture is Moulins.

[[Alpes-de-Haute-Provence]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

Alpes-de-Haute-Provence (Aups d'Auta Provença) is a department in the south of France, in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. Its prefecture is Digne-les-Bains.

Until 1970, the department was named as Basses-Alpes.

[[Hautes-Alpes]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur

Hautes-Alpes (Auts Aups) is a department in southeastern France, in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. It is named after the Alps mountain range and its prefecture (capital) is Gap.

[[Ardennes (department)]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Grand Est

Ardennes  is a department in the Grand Est region of northeastern France named after the Ardennes forest. Its prefecture is the city of Charleville-Mézières.

[[Gap]]

Gap or The Gap may refer to: Heath has a gap that is as big as a cave. You can walk in and explore. 

[[Ariège (department)]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Ariège (Arieja; Arièja) is a department in the region of Occitanie in southern France; it is named after the Ariège river that flows through the department.

Its capital is the city of Foix but the city with the largest population is Pamiers.

[[Aube]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Grand Est

Aube is a department in northeast France named after the Aube river. The prefecture (capital) of Aube is Troyes.

[[Aude]]

CATEGORIES: Departments in Occitanie

Aude is a department in the region of Occitanie in southern France. It is named after the Aude river.

The inhabitants of the Aude are known, in French, as Audois (women: Audoises).

[[Tautavel man]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins

Tautavel man is the name of an extinct hominian. They lived about 300.000-450.000 years ago.,, It is named after fossils found in a cave on the site named Caune de l'Arago, near Tautavel, France. The first fossils were found there in 1971. The fossils date from between 300.000 and 450.000 years ago. They consist of over 80 fragments; the skull found (pictured) belonged to a man in his twenties. He was about 1.65 m, and weighted around 45–55 kg. Other remains are two mandibles, belonging to a woman in her fifties, and to a man, about 20–25 years old. It looks like they did not know how to use fire yet. It also looks like they might have been cannibals, or that they preferred to scavenge for food, rather than hunt. Bones of rhinoceros, horses, wild sheep (called Mouflon), Tahrs (resemble wild goats), Muskox (some kind of bovine), deer, and reindeer have been found in the cave.

There is an ongoing debate if this hominid is directly related to the Neanderthal. If they are not, they would be Homines erecti. If they are direct predecessors of the Neanderthals, they would be Homo heidelbergensis. It has been proposed to classify them as Homo erectus Tautavelensis.

[[Baseball glove]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball equipment, Sports clothing

A baseball glove, or mitt, is a leather glove that baseball players use to catch a baseball that are hit by a batter or thrown by a fielder.

[[Product (chemistry)]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

A product is the result of a chemical reaction. 

An example:

H+ + H2O -> H3O+

where H3O+ is the product

[[Cy Young Award]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball awards

In baseball, the Cy Young Award is an honor given to the best pitcher in the Major League Baseball.  The award was first introduced in 1956 by Commissioner Ford Frick in honor of Hall of Fame pitcher Cy Young, who died in 1955.  The award was given to the best pitcher in the major leagues. In 1967, the year after Frick retired as Commissioner, the practice began of honoring one pitcher in each league, the American League, and the National League. The 2015 American League Cy Young Award winner was Dallas Keuchel of the Houston Astros, and the 2015 National League Cy Young Award winner was Jake Arrieta of the Chicago Cubs. 

Each league's award is voted on by two members of the Baseball Writers Association of America in each league city, meaning 28 ballots are cast for the American League winner, and 32 for the National League.  Each places a vote for first, second, and third place among the pitchers of each league.  The formula used to calculate the final scores is a weighted sum of the votes: Score = 5F + 3S + T, where F is the number of first place votes, S is second place votes, and T is third place votes.  The pitcher with the highest score in each league wins the award. If two pitchers receive the same number of votes, the award is shared between the two.

The current formula started with the 1970 season.  Prior to that, writers only voted for the best pitcher and used a formula of one point per vote.

[[Joseph Chamberlain]]

CATEGORIES: British politicians, Businesspeople from London, 1836 births, 1914 deaths

Joseph Chamberlain (8 July 1836 – 2 July 1914), was an important businessman and a politician. He worked to improve education, and cities. He was a Member of Parliament from 1876 to 1914, and Colonial Secretary (controlling British colonies) from 1895 to 1903. His son Austen won the Nobel Peace Prize and another son Neville was Prime Minister from 1937 to 1940.

[[Pendulum]]

CATEGORIES: Objects

A pendulum is a mass (any object usually metal) on an arm. The arm is attached to a pivot, which is a point to swing from. The mass will naturally hang down because of gravity, but if it is pushed to one side it will oscillate, which means that it will swing from side to side.  The frequency of the swinging pendulum stays the same.

where π (a Greek letter pronounced 'pi') is a mathematical constant. This equation gives a good approximation for the period when the mass does not swing far from the middle. The period of a pendulum does not depend on the mass of the object.

The mechanical energy of a pendulum is constant and is the sum of the kinetic energy and gravitational potential energy.   

The regular motion of the pendulum can be used for timekeeping, and pendulums are used to regulate pendulum clocks.

[[Finnix]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Live CD, X86-64 Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

Finnix is a Debian based Live CD Linux distribution, developed by Ryan Finnie and intended for system administrators for tasks such as filesystem recovery, network monitoring and OS installation. Finnix is a small Linux Distribution, with an ISO download size of approximately 100 MiB.

[[Gibraltar (Linux distribution)]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

Gibraltar Firewall was a Linux distribution based on Debian. Gibraltar is used to secure local area networks as a firewall software. The last version is 3.0, published on 2010-04-14.

Dr. Rene Mayrhofer made Gibraltar Firewall in 1999. Since January 2003, the company eSYS Information Systems is responsible for the development of Gibraltar.

Gibraltar Linux is based on free Software, which was enhanced by a web based administration tool. For running the firewall, no hard disk is needed, because Gibraltar is able to start up and run directly off CDROM. Configuration data can be stored on floppy disk or USB sticks.

Since version 2.4, Gibraltar is also available in combination with several hardware platforms. On this appliances, Gibraltar boots up from compact flash.

The core parts of Gibraltar are:

[[Mandible]]

CATEGORIES: Bones of the skull, Head (body part)

The mandible is a bone found in all jawed vertebrates. The name comes from Latin mandibula. 

In bony fish the lower jaw is made of a number of bones, but these were gradually reduced in evolution. 

In humans and other mammals the mandible is simply the jawbone or dentary, which is the largest and strongest bone of the face. 

In mammals bones formerly in the lower jaw have become the ear ossicles.

[[Homo heidelbergensis]]

CATEGORIES: Hominins

Homo heidelbergensis ("Heidelberg Man") is the name given to a number of human fossil remains that are older than fossils of Neanderthals.  Homo heidelbergensis is abbreviated H. heidelbergensis.

Scientists are not sure whether these remains are from a distinct species. They are fragments (small pieces of bones), and most cannot be dated exactly. In the older texts they were simply called archaic humans or "early Homo sapiens."

There have been relatively well-defined remains of Homo erectus found in Africa from very early in human history.  There have also been well-defined remains of Homo neanderthalensis found in Europe from later in history.  Some scholars use the terms "archaic humans," "early Homo sapiens," or Homo heidelbergensis to describe remains that seem to come from between these two periods in history.  Some authors use it for all early species of Homo, including Neanderthals.

[[Austen Chamberlain]]

CATEGORIES: 1863 births, 1937 deaths, Alumni of the Institut d'études politiques de Paris, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British Nobel Prize winners, British people of World War I, Chancellors of the Exchequer, English Christians, Former Conservative MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Knights of the Garter, Leaders of the Conservative Party (UK), Politicians from Birmingham, Privy Councillors (UK), Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, UK MPs 1929–1931, UK MPs 1931–1935, UK MPs 1935–1945, Unitarians

PeaceSir Joseph Austen Chamberlain, KG (16 October 1863 – 17 March 1937) was a British politician.  He received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1925.  His father was another important politician, Joseph Chamberlain, and his half-brother (they had a different mother) was Neville Chamberlain, British Prime Minister from 1937 to 1940.

[[Tabasco (state)]]

CATEGORIES: Tabasco (state)

Tabasco is a state in southeast Mexico, on the Gulf of Mexico. About 2,000,000 people live there. Its capital is called Villahermosa.

[[Silent trade]]

CATEGORIES: Trade, Communication

Silent trade, or barter, is when traders (who do not speak each other's language) trade without talking to each other. This was used in many parts of ancient Africa. Silent bartering was used during 500 A.D to 1500 A.D. and probably had a much longer history.

To do a silent barter, one group of traders would go to a certain place, leaving whatever they are offering to trade. The other group of traders would then decide if they would like to accept the goods (usually salt or gold) that were left. If the goods met with approval, the second group would then take the goods, leave their own goods in return, and leave because the person accepted the offer. This system of trading was used mostly in ancient Ghana.       The popular things they sold were gold and salt. Another system was face-to-face trading using hand signals.

Gold mined south of the Sahel was traded, pound for pound, for salt mined in the desert. The salt from the desert was needed by the people of Sahel to flavor and preserve their food and gold has always had value for adornment (wearing). Because of this trade, cities grew and flourished and parts of West Africa became commercial centers. West Africa produced gold until about 1500 AD.

[[Main Page/Knowledge groups]]

[[Tamaulipas]]

CATEGORIES: Tamaulipas, States of Mexico

Tamaulipas is a state in the northeast of Mexico. About 3,025,000 people live there. Its capital is called Ciudad Victoria.

[[Zacatecas]]

CATEGORIES: Zacatecas, States of Mexico

Zacatecas is a state in central Mexico. About 1,360,000 people live there. The capital is also called Zacatecas.

[[Petal]]

CATEGORIES: Flowers

A petal is a coloured part of a flower. With bright colours and scent, they often bring insects and birds to pollinate the flowers. Petals are made of cellulose and other organic matter. 

Petals are modified leaves which surround the reproductive parts of flowers. Together, all of the petals of a flower are called a corolla. 

The role of petals and the evolution of flowers is an important part of botany. It has been studied from the 18th century to the present day.

The most common types of pollination are:

[[Marigold]]

Marigold could mean:

[[Moisturizer]]

CATEGORIES: Dermatology, Cosmetics

A moisturizer (or moisturiser) is a liquid that is used for softening the skin, especially for naturally dry skins. They increase the skin's water content by reducing evaporation. The thickness of a moisturizer is actually what keeps the hydration concealed into the skin, which then creates the moisturizing effect. Due to its thickening agents, moisturizers typically only come in lotion or night cream form.

Unlike a serum, a moisturizer does not penetrate deeply into the skin. The main job of a moisturizer is to seal products into the skin, locking all the moisture and nutrients your skin needs.

They can be quite a complicated chemical mixture. They may contain naturally occurring skin lipids and sterols, artificial or natural oils, emollients, lubricants,etc.

Moisturizers are not always needed or used. They are most useful for persons with dry skin.

Moisturizers are designed to either impart or restore hydration in the stratum corneum, which is an interactive, dynamic structure, and maintenance of hydration can impact its barrier function.

[[Vidalia onions]]

CATEGORIES: Root vegetables, Georgia (U.S. state)

Vidalia onions are a variety of onions. They are native to Toombs County, Georgia. They are unique from other onions in that they are sweeter in taste. Southeast Georgia's mild climate, the area's sandy, low sulfur soil, exclusive seedvarieties, and precise farming practices make this original sweet onion, mild and flavorful.

[[Straw]]

CATEGORIES: Natural materials

Straw is the stems of cereal grains like oats or wheat, after the seeds have been removed. It is often used as bedding for animals (hay is used to feed animals). It can also be used as fuel, to make baskets, and many other things.  In older times, it was used for thatch roofs, or mixed with clay and sand for the cob and adobe used in building houses.

[[Cheeseburger]]

CATEGORIES: Sandwiches

A cheeseburger is a hamburger with cheese on it and sometimes lettuce. The cheeseburger is usually found at fast food restaurants, such as Burger King and McDonalds.

[[Calorie]]

CATEGORIES: Energy

The calorie is a pre-SI unit of energy, most common in heat.

It is the amount of energy required to increase the temperature of one gram of water by one Kelvin.

When on a food label, the term "calorie" refers to kilocalories, or 1000 calories.

For a layman, calories are the parameters of energy consumption. Think of them like the gasoline in the car. But unlike the car, the body stores the excess gas for long. The reaction to the calorie depends on which macronutrient did that calorie came from.

[[Portland, Maine]]

CATEGORIES: Portland, Maine, County seats in Maine, 1632 establishments, 1630s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

Portland is the largest city in the U.S. state of Maine. The city's population was 64,249 as of the 2000 Census

[[Coweta County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: Georgia (U.S. state) counties, 1826 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Coweta County is a county in the U.S. state of Georgia.  As of 2005, 109,903 people lived there.http://www.naco.org/Template.cfm?Section=Find_a_County&Template=/cffiles/counties/county.cfm&id=13077 https://web.archive.org/web/20100628151340/http://www.naco.org/Template.cfm?Section The county seat is Newnan, Georgia. It was named for a Creek Indian Tribe that lived in the area.

[[Intoxication]]

CATEGORIES: Health, Physiology

Intoxication is the state of being affected by one or more psychoactive drugs. It can also refer to the effects caused by the ingestion of poison or by the overconsumption of normally harmless substances.

People who drink too much alcohol become intoxicated. They may become impaired in some or all of their senses like touch or even eyesight. Long term drinkers develop tolerance to alcohol. This high tolerance means it takes more alcohol to produce the outward signs of intoxication. Intoxication may bring delirium or make people do or say things that are not normal for them. The level of harm done usually depends on the substance and the amount. Mild intoxication usually is not permanently harmful. Mild stimulants like caffeine usually do not harm the person.

[[Gilgit District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Gilgit-Baltistan

The Gilgit District is bounded by the Wakhan Corridor of (Afghanistan) in the north, Xinjiang (China) in the north and northeast, Skardu District in the south and southeast. The capital of the Gilgit District is Gilgit town.

The district includes Gilgit town, Naltar, Hunza, Gojal (Upper Hunza) and Shimshal. It also includes many small villages like Minapin, Hopar, and Hispar. The Haramosh valley, now in the Gilgit District, was previously in the Skardu District.

The highest peak in the Gilgit District is Distaghil Sar 7885, which is the 19th-highest mountain in the world.

[[Zoe (Sesame Street)]]

CATEGORIES: Sesame Street characters

Zoe is a character from the TV show Sesame Street. She is Elmo's best friend. She is an orange monster with red hair. She is 3 years old and is very energetic. She is currently played by Jennifer Barnhart, but was first played by Fran Brill.

[[Olympia Snowe]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, United States senators from Maine, United States representatives from Maine, US Republican Party politicians, 21st-century American politicians, 20th-century American politicians

Olympia Jean Snowe (née Bouchles; born February 21, 1947) is an American politician and former United States Senator from Maine. She is a member of the Republican Party.

She was the first woman to serve in both houses of a state legislature and in both houses of the United States Congress. She was the first woman to be elected Senator in the history of Maine. She is the first Greek woman ever elected to the United States Congress. Senator Snowe is a member of the United States Republican Party. Snowe also served in the United States House of Representatives. She retired in 2013, after deciding not to seek reelection in 2012. She was succeeded by Former Independent Governor of Maine Angus King.

[[Ghanche District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Gilgit-Baltistan

Ghanche District is the easternmost district of the Northern Areas, Pakistan. To its northeast is Xinjiang, China, to the north and northwest is Skardu District, to its west is Astore District and to its south is Leh District (Ladakh Division) in the Indian occupied territories of Jammu and Kashmir. The line of control along the eastern most region of Ghanche District cuts through the Siachen Glacier and is not permanent because of the conflict (It has been proposed by moderates in Pakistan and India to make the Siachen Glacier region a Peace Park).

The capital of Ghanche District is Khaplu. This is the coldest place within Pakistan also called the "Third Pole" with temperatures reaching below -20 in the winter. Khaplu and Hushe valleys form the gateway for the great Baltoro Muztagh, the subrange of Karakoram that includes the mighty peaks of K2 (8,611 m), Broad Peak (8,047 m), Gasherbrums (8,000+ m) and Masherbrum (7,821 m) (all of which are included in the Skardu District).

[[Polyester]]

CATEGORIES: Polymers

Polyester is a type of man-made material. It is a synthetic polymer. With 18% market share of all plastic materials produced, it is third after polyethylene (33.5%) and polypropylene (19.5%).

[[Bowdon, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Georgia (U.S. state)

Bowdon is a city in Carroll County, Georgia,  United States.  As of the 2000 census, the city had a total population of 1,959. Bowdon is known as "The Friendly City."

[[She]]

The word "she" is a third-person singular pronoun used to talk about a female. When the name of a woman has been the subject, then "she" takes the place of that name, in the text. While "she" is the subject form, the word "her" is the object or possessive form (see table below). The word "she" is used for a woman (or girl) where the word "he" would be used for a man, or "it" for a neuter pronoun.

In 1999, the American Dialect Society chose "she" as the word of the past millennium (1000-year period). The Society noted the word was not used before the year 1000; "she" was first seen in writings from the 12th century, where the word "heo" had been used to mean either the feminine or mixed plural as with "they".

[[Ghizar District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Gilgit-Baltistan

Ghizar District is northernmost part of the Northern Areas of Pakistan. Its capital is Gahkuch. Ghizer is also a contact point between Gilgit District and Chitral District (which are connected by Shandur Pass). Ghizer is a multi-ethnic district and three major languages are spoken: Khowar, Shina and Burushaski. There are also a few Wakhi speakers in Ishkoman.

[[Evening]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of a day

Evening, time period in which daylight is decreasing, between late afternoon & night (18:00:00 until 23:59:59 = evening - 00:00:00 until 00:00:00 = midnight).

[[Sesame Street]]

CATEGORIES: Sesame Street, Children's television series, 1969 American television series debuts, 1960s American television series, 1970s American television series, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, PBS Kids shows, Learning, English-language television programs

Sesame Street is an American children's television series with human actors and puppets that are called Muppets. The show deals with issues such as music, song, alphabet, numbers, and teaching children basics in learning, as well as more serious issues such as death, divorce, HIV/AIDS, autism, and foster care. 

Part of the profits, go to an international project for children's schools.

The show has been on TV since November 10, 1969. Jim Henson made the Muppets, and a lot of writers and puppeteers worked together to make the show.  The Muppets were used afterwards in a different show called The Muppet Show. Sesame Street has been on TV in 120 countries all over the world. More than 4000 episodes have been made over 50 seasons.

For most of its history, Sesame Street had been shown on the PBS channel. In 2015, new episodes started airing on the HBO channel in January 2016, but those episodes would be shown on PBS nine months later. In 2020, Sesame Street aired on HBO for the last time. After five seasons on HBO Max, the show returns to PBS as its first-run program, for the further, newer episodes, starting with the 51st season.

[[Arthur Davidson]]

CATEGORIES: Businesspeople from Wisconsin, 1881 births, 1950 deaths

Arthur Davidson (February 11, 1881–December 30, 1950) is one of the four co-founders of Harley-Davidson Motorcycles. He and his wife died in a car accident in 1950. Arthur, his two brothers Walter and William started the company in 1903 with William Harley. Arthur was mainly in charge of sales for the company.

When he was not working for the company, Davidson like to raise Guernsey cattle at his farm west of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He was well known for giving money and other things such as land to organizations such as the Boy Scouts.

[[Diamir District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Gilgit-Baltistan

The Diamir District is a first-order administrative division of the Pakistani-controlled territory known as the Northern Areas and is the district in which the Karakoram Highway enters that territory from Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The capital of the Diamir District is Chilas. In 2004, the Diamir District was reduced in size as a result of the creation of the new Astore District from Diamir's easternmost tehsil. (See map.)

The Diamir District is bounded by the Astore District in the east, Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in the southwest (separated by the Babusar Pass or Babusar Top), Neelum District of Azad Kashmir in the south, the Ghizar District in the north and northwest, and the Gilgit District in the north and northeast.

Before the Karakoram Highway was opened in 1978, the only road reaching Gilgit town from the south was a rough track north from Balakot to Babusar Pass (via Kaghan, Naran, Besal, and Gittidas) and farther north through Babusar Gah to Chilas. The road up to Besal is now in better condition, but from Besal to Babusar Pass, the road is still a rough track.

[[Parade]]

CATEGORIES: Events

A parade is a large or small group of people who all walk together, usually down a street or road. People who walk in parades are often dressed in costumes, and followed by marching bands, floats or large balloons.

[[Pokémon Diamond and Pearl]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, 2007 video games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games, Pokémon RPGs

Pokémon Diamond'' and ''Pearl are two role-playing games (RPG) made by Game Freak and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS handheld. They're the fourth main group of Pokémon games in the series. In the game, the number of Pokémon is brought up to 493.

A third version to Diamond and Pearl called Pokémon Platinum was released in Japan in Autumn 2008, and released in the USA and UK on March 22, 2009.

[[Bengal cat]]

CATEGORIES: Cat breeds, Animal hybrids

The Bengal cat is a hybrid (mixed) breed of house cat. They were bred to be even-tempered. This means they do not get angry easily. Most Bengal cats are spotted and weigh 7 to 20 pounds (3 to 9 kilograms).

[[Pokémon Red and Blue]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 video games, 2004 video games, Game Boy games, Game Boy Advance games, Pokémon RPGs

Pokémon Red and Pokémon Blue, released in Japan as Pokémon Red and Pokémon Green, are two role-playing games. They were made by Game Freak and published by Nintendo, and are the first two video games in the Pokémon series. They were first released for the Game Boy in Japan in 1996. They were later released to the rest of the world in 1998 (North America) and 1999 (Europe and Australia). Pokémon Yellow, a special version, was released one year later in each region. These three games (Pokémon Red, Blue, and Yellow) and Pokémon Stadium make up the first generation of Pokémon video game series. Pokémon Red and Blue have later been remade for the Game Boy Advance as Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen, released in 2004.

[[Pokémon Gold and Silver]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 video games, Game Boy Color games, Game Boy Color-only games, Pokémon RPGs

Pokémon Gold and Silver are two role-playing video games made by Game Freak and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy Color handheld. They are the second games in the Pokémon series, and increased the number of Pokémon to 251. The Pokémon Ho-oh and Lugia, respectively, are featured in the boxart. A special version named Pokémon Crystal, which had the Pokémon Suicune on the cover, was released around a year later. Pokemon Gold and Silver are backward-compatible with the original Game Boy (except in Korea), but Pokemon Crystal requires a Game Boy Color or Game Boy Advance.

[[Waveform]]

CATEGORIES: Wave physics

The waveform is the shape of a wave as it travels. There are many different waveforms. They are usually a shape which is repeated over and over (a "periodic waveform"). A common waveform is the sine wave. It is normally not possible to see a waveform without some device.

[[Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 video games, Game Boy Advance games, Game Boy Advance-only games, Pokémon RPGs

Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire are two role-playing games made by Game Freak and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy Advance handheld. They are the third main generation of games in the Pokémon series, and increased the number of Pokémon to 386.

Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire had a remake called Pokémon Emerald, which changed a few things, and added a Battle Frontier. Another remake, Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, was released for the Nintendo 3DS on November 21, 2014.

[[Wii Sports]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, Wii games, Wii-only games

Wii Sports is a sports game made by Nintendo for the Wii system in late 2006. It was bundled with the Wii (except in Japan), and has tennis, golf, baseball, bowling, and boxing. The rules for each game are simplified to make them easier for new players. Although its main criticism is its lack of detail, its motion sensing gameplay and accessibility had a big impact on the video game market. A sequel, Wii Sports Resort, was released in 2009, while a high-definition remake, Wii Sports Club, was released in 2013 for the Wii U. 

Wii Sports was well received and got lots of awards. It sold over 82 million copies by the end of 2017 which makes it the best selling single-platform game of all time, and fourth best overall.

[[Manchester Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in England, 1938 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1930s establishments in England

Manchester Airport  MAN is an important airport in Manchester, England. It opened to passengers in June 1938. It was first called Ringway Airport. During World War II it officially became RAF Ringway, and from 1975 until 1986 the title Manchester International Airport was used. The airport is almost all within the city of Manchester boundaries—the exception being the second runway, which lies mostly in Cheshire Manchester Airport had the most passengers in the Uk outside of London with 22.1 million people in 2007.

Manchester Airport competes with other airports nearby such as Liverpool Airport and Leeds Bradford Airport.

[[Heaton Park]]

CATEGORIES: Greater Manchester

Heaton Park is the largest municipal park in the Greater Manchester region, and one of the largest in both the United Kingdom and Europe. It contains many animal reserves and also has a few listed buildings.

[[Super Mario Bros. 3]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 video games, Mario platform games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Nintendo Research & Development 2 games, Virtual Console games

Super Mario Bros. 3 is a 1988 platform game made by Nintendo for the Nintendo Entertainment System game console.  It was a big hit and sold 40 million copies, and is often said by critics to be the best game on the NESJune 2020.  It precedes Super Mario Bros. 2 (1988) and was followed by Super Mario World in 1990. It is one of the games in Super Mario All-Stars.

[[Super Mario World]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 video games, 1991 video games, Mario platform games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games, Virtual Console games

Super Mario World is a platform game made by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. It is the fifth Super Mario game. In the game, Mario travels through seven worlds to defeat his enemy Bowser. The game adds new things that were not in the previous Mario games. Yoshi appears in this game for the first time.

Super Mario World sold very well: it sold more than 20 million copies. Many gamers think that the game is one of the best games ever made.

The game was remade for the Game Boy Advance, called Super Mario Advance 2; the other games in the Mario series were remade for it also. An animated television series based on the game aired in 1991 on NBC.

[[Host]]

Host(s) may refer to:

In Christianity:

In culture:

In science and engineering:

In other uses:

[[GnuLinEx]]

CATEGORIES: X86-64 Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

gnuLinEx, or LinEx, is a Linux distribution based on Debian which uses GNOME as its desktop.

It is promoted and created by the regional government of Extremadura, Spain, gnuLinEx is intended to be used in all schools in Extremadura, as well as in government offices. The regional government of Extremadura also wants people to use it for business and home use as well.

gnuLinEx works only on computers whose processor is based on the i386 architecture.

[[University of Manchester]]

CATEGORIES: Manchester, Universities in England, 2004 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2004 establishments in England

The University of Manchester is a public university in Manchester, England. In 2007-08, it had over 40,000 students studying 500 academic programmes, and more than 10,000 staff and an annual income of £637 million. It is the largest single-campus University in the United Kingdom. The university was formed in 2004 by joining together the Victoria University of Manchester (founded 1851) and UMIST (founded 1824) and since then some of the buildings have been demolished and new ones built instead. These include University Place on the site of the former Mathematics Building (pictured right).

The former UMIST buildings are in the Sackville Street Campus and those of the former University of Manchester in the Oxford Road Campus. There is a residential campus further south in the suburb of Fallowfield. The earliest buildings of the university date from 1872 (west of Oxford Road) and they were occupied by Owens College in 1873. Since the 1950s the facilities for science and technology have occupied an area east of Oxford Road and the medical school was relocated there in the early 1970s.

[[Manchester Ship Canal]]

CATEGORIES: Canals, North West England

The Manchester Ship Canal is a wide, 36 long, river navigation in North West England, opened on 21 May 1894. At the time of its completion, it was the largest navigation canal in the world.

The "Big Ditch", as it is sometimes known, consists of the rivers Irwell and Mersey made navigable for seagoing ships from the Mersey Estuary to Salford Docks in Greater Manchester. It transformed Manchester from a landlocked city into a major sea port.

[[Áo dài]]

CATEGORIES: Dresses, Vietnamese culture

The ao dai is the national costume of Vietnam for women. Vietnamese wear ao dai for formal occasions, at school or for work. The male counterpart to the ao dai is called an ao gam. The ao dai is found in every part of Vietnam, and in overseas Vietnamese communities. The prefix áo classifies the item as clothing. Dài means "long." Once condemned as decadent by the country's rulers, the dress became popular again in the 1990s.

A modern ao dai has two parts, a high collared long dress, and pants that stop at the ankles. Costume and evening-gown áo dài may have colorful designs with flowers, birds, and pictures.

The price of an evening gown ao dai is reasonable, but may be expensive depending on the choice of fabric and the dressmaker. Because of the light transparent fabrics, people who wear áo dài should wear light underwear.

[[Kanotix]]

CATEGORIES: Knoppix, Linux distributions, Live CD, X86-64 Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

Kanotix, also referred to as KANOTIX, is a Linux distribution Live CD (LiveDistro) based on Debian (until 2006 unstable, in 2007 KANOTIX moved to Debian Etch) with advanced hardware detection. It can run from an optical disc drive without using a hard disk.

Kanotix uses KDE as the default desktop environment. GNOME and other window managers can be downloaded using APT.

The name "Kanotix" is derived from the founder's nickname "Kano". Kanotix's mascot is a fangtooth.

[[Sokoto]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nigeria

Sokoto is a city in the northwest of Nigeria, near to where the Sokoto River and Rima River meet. The people in Sokoto are mostly Muslims. Sokoto was the capital city of Gobir from the 10th century. Sokoto was made as a caliphate, an Islamic state, in the 19th century. 

From around 1900, the British took control of Sokoto, which then made up a large part of the north-west corner of Nigeria. Sokoto became a province (area) of the British colony of Nigeria. 

[[Moca, Dominican Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dominican Republic, 1822 establishments, 19th-century establishments in the Spanish West Indies, 1820s establishments in North America

The Dominican city of Moca is the head municipality of the Espaillat province.

It is in the Cibao Valley, south of the Cordillera Septentrional (English: Northern mountain range), in the southern part of the province.

[[Niger Delta]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Nigeria, River deltas

The Niger Delta is the delta of the Niger River. It is an area where many people live in Nigeria. 

Nigeria has become Africa's biggest producer of petroleum, and there are many oil wells in the Niger Delta.  The natural gas from the oil wells is all burnt, causing environmental problems.

Because of the money from petroleum production, there have been many political problems in recent times.  For example, many oil workers have been taken as hostages.

[[Batting (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball

In baseball, batting is the act of going against the other team's pitcher and trying to hit the baseball ball. A batter or hitter is the player who swings his bat to try to hit the ball. In Major League Baseball, pitchers usually do not bat unless they are playing in the National League where batters have to bat even if they are pitchers. In the American League, pitchers do not bat, and only pitch.

Batting the primary method by which Baseball teams play offense and score runs. A Batter bats by standing in the Batter's Box at Home Plate and either swinging or not swinging at the pitches the Pitcher throws. This activity collectively is known as an At Bat. The goal of the batter is get to get a hit, while the pitcher wants to get an out.

[[My Happy Ending]]

CATEGORIES: Avril Lavigne songs, 2004 songs

"My Happy Ending" is a song written and produced by Avril Lavigne and Butch Walker for Lavigne's second album, Under My Skin (2004).

[[Club (weapon)]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons

A club (also known as cudgel, baton, truncheon, night stick, and bludgeon) is a weapon mainly used to hit someone or something.  A club is a short staff, or stick, usually made of wood, and used as a weapon.  

A club can be used in one or two hands, but it is usually used in one hand.  A quarterstaff is a clubs that needs both hands to be used.  Many kinds of clubs are used in martial arts and other fields, including the law enforcement baton.

The wounds caused by a club are known as bludgeoning or blunt-force trauma injuries. In the United States, clubs are not as popular as the taser.

[[Parental advisory]]

CATEGORIES: Music

ParmParental Advisory is a sticker that tells parents that something may not be suitable for children. The sticker is usually placed on Music CDs. It tells parents that the texts of the songs contain words or phrases that some consider bad for children. Parental Advisory stickers will usually appear on Hip Hop and Rap albums. Comic books may also have a Parental Advisory sticker on them.

[[Itzhak Perlman]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American violinists, Grammy Award winners, Jewish American musicians, Jewish Israeli musicians, People from Tel Aviv

Itzhak Perlman (born August 31, 1945) is an Israeli-American violinist.  He is one of the greatest violinists of this time.

[[Keep Holding On]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 songs, Avril Lavigne songs

"Keep Holding On" is a 2006 song by Avril Lavigne. It was on the Eragon soundtrack, as well as the album The Best Damn Thing. It was Avril Lavigne's first CD song (but not CD single) released in North America since Fall to Pieces. It was released in Australia on the iTunes Store as a digital download.

[[Telstra]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone companies, Companies of Australia

Telstra is the national telecommunications service in Australia.

[[Maxim Vengerov]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Russian musicians, Grammy Award winners, Violinists, Novosibirsk

Maxim Vengerov (born 1974) is a famous Russian violinist/conductor.

[[Rudi Dutschke]]

CATEGORIES: German people, 1940 births, 1979 deaths

Rudi Dutschke born Alfred Willi Rudi Dutschke (March 7, 1940 – December 24, 1979, Århus, Denmark) was a spokesperson of the left-wing German student movement of the 1960s. He famously split from those who went on to form the violent Red Army Faction. Instead he wanted to have 'a long march through the institutions' of power to create radical change from within government and society by becoming an important part of the machinery. This was an idea he took up from Antonio Gramsci and the Frankfurt school of Cultural Marxism.

In 1968, he survived an assassination attempt which seriously injured him. He had to re-learn how to speak altogether. Because of this attempt, he developed epilepsy. He drowned in his bath tub 12 years later. This was caused by an epileptic seizure. 

[[Sportswear]]

CATEGORIES: sports clothing

Sportswear is clothing, including footwear, worn for playing sports or to exercise.

Sportswear includes shorts, tracksuits, T-shirts, polo shirts and trainers. It also includes some underwear, such as the jockstrap. Sportswear is also often worn as casual fashion clothing.

Sports athletes wear a combination of different items of clothing such as sport shoes, pants and shirts. Some athletes wear personal armour such as helmets or American football body armour. 

[[Number (sports)]]

CATEGORIES: Team sports, Numbers, Sports words

In team sports, the number, often referred to as the uniform number, squad number, jersey number, shirt number, sweater number, is the number worn on a player's uniform. It distinguishes each player from others wearing the same uniform. This is so that officials, scorers and spectators have something to identify each player. The number is usually shown on the back of the jersey. The player's surname is often written above or below the number. Sometimes the number also displayed on the front or sleeves, or on the player's shorts or headgear.

[[Uniform number (Major League Baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball

Uniform numbers are used to tell and identify different baseball players's and coach's. Over time, numbers can have a much more meaning to the player and fans. A number can be symbolic of a player's legacy, and has resulted in all kinds of superstition (or rumors). Uniforms numbers are put on the backs of baseball uniforms.

[[New York Knickerbockers (baseball)]]

CATEGORIES: History of baseball

The New York Knickerbockers were one of the first organized baseball teams who played the baseball rules that are still used today. The team was started by Alexander Cartwright, who is said to be one of the original developers of modern baseball.

In 1849, the New York Knickerbockers wore the first ever recorded baseball uniform. Their uniforms were pants made of blue wool, white flannel shirts and straw hats.

[[Los Angeles Dodgers]]

CATEGORIES: Los Angeles Dodgers

The Los Angeles Dodgers or LA Dodgers are the professional baseball team based in Los Angeles, California. They complete in Major League Baseball (MLB). The team played in the West Division of the National League. They play in Dodger Stadium. The team began play in Brooklyn, New York, starting in 1883. The team had several informal nicknames over the years, including the "Atlantics", the "Bridegrooms", the "Superbas" and the "Robins". The name "Dodgers" was first used in the 1890s. It was short for "Trolley Dodgers".

The Brooklyn Dodgers played in several ballparks. The most famous of them was Ebbets Field, their home from 1913 through 1958. In 1959 they moved to Los Angeles. They played in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum for four years. In 1962 they opened Dodger Stadium, and have played there ever since.

The Dodgers have been to the World Series 22 times, and won it six times: 1955, 1959, 1963, 1965, 1981, 1988 and 2020.  Most recently, they were in the World Series in 2017, 2018, and 2020 and lost the first two times to the Houston Astros and the Boston Red Sox, respectively.  They defeated the Tampa Bay Rays in the 2020 World Series.

Many famous baseball players have played for the Dodgers, including:

[[Oakland Athletics]]

CATEGORIES: Oakland Athletics

The Oakland Athletics, also known as the Oakland A's, are a professional Major League Baseball team based in Oakland, California. The Athletics are a member of the Western Division of the American League. From 1968 to today, the Athletics have played in Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum.

The Athletics were an original member of the American League in 1901, playing in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The name "Athletics" had been used by several other Philadelphia teams dating back to the 1860s. Most of the various "Athletics" teams wore a Gothic or Old English letter "A" on their uniforms. The current Athletics still often wear that old-style "A" or "A's" on their uniforms.

The old Athletics were very successful, winning several World Series championships. By the early 1950s, they were not playing well and the fans were no longer supporting them. So after over 50 years in Philadelphia, the Athletics moved to Kansas City, Missouri, in 1955. They were not very successful there, either. They moved again, to Oakland, in 1968. As the Oakland A's, they have won several World Series.

[[Pittsburgh Pirates]]

CATEGORIES: Pittsburgh Pirates, 1882 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Pittsburgh Pirates are a professional Major League Baseball team based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  They play in the Central Division of the National League. They have won five World Series championships. The Pirates are also often called the Bucs or the Buccos. This is because the word "buccaneer" is slang for pirate.

The Pirates had success in the early 1990s. However, between 1993 and 2012, the Pirates did not have a winning season.

[[Coach]]

Coach could mean:

[[Rent (musical)]]

CATEGORIES: Broadway musicals, West End musicals, Musicals adapted to movies, 1990s musicals, Rock musicals, Tony Award winning musicals, Pulitzer Prize winners, 1996 works

[[Coach (sport)]]

CATEGORIES: Training, Sports occupations, Coaches

In sports, a coach or manager is a person who directs and trains a sports team or sportsperson. If there is a difference between coach and manager, it is this:

The borderline areas are selecting the team, and buying new players.

[[Manny Ramirez]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, American League All-Stars, Boston Red Sox players, Chicago White Sox players, Cleveland Indians players, Dominican Republic sportspeople, Living people, Los Angeles Dodgers players, Tampa Bay Rays players

Manuel Aristides "Manny" Ramírez Onelcida (born May 30, 1972 in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic) is a former American Major League Baseball player. The Boston Red Sox traded Ramirez to the Los Angeles Dodgers for Jason Bay on July 31, 2008. He signed with the Tampa Bay Rays in 2011.  He retired on April 8, 2011.

He is a nine-time Silver Slugger and one of twenty-four people to have hit over 500 career home runs. He is well recognized for his strong offensive abilities. Ramirez has the most career grand slams of any active baseball player, and has led the American League is three key batting measures: batting average, home runs and runs batted in. For the past ten years, Ramírez has been a fixture in the Midsummer Classic, and is an eleven-time All-Star. In 2004, he was named the Most Valuable Player of the World Series after helping the Red Sox win their first World Series championship in over 85 years.

[[Leica]]

Leica could mean:

[[Alfonso Soriano]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Washington Nationals players, Chicago Cubs players, New York Yankees players, Texas Rangers players, National League All-Stars

Alfonso Guilleard Soriano (born January 7, 1976) is a Dominican Republican professional Major League Baseball player. He currently is a free agent.  He has used to play with the Hiroshima Toyo Carp, New York Yankees, Texas Rangers and Washington Nationals before the Cubs. He played as a second baseman for the Yankees and Rangers. He bats right-handed and has batted as a lead-off hitter for most of his career.

[[Linspire]]

CATEGORIES: Ubuntu (operating system) derivatives, Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

Linspire, also known as LindowsOS (also Lin---s, pronounced Lindash), is a commercial Linux distribution based on Debian GNU/Linux (Ubuntu). Linspire is sold by Linspire, Inc. and is focused on ease-of-use for the average person, rather than catering to  advanced needs. As of 2007-10-10, the most recent stable release of Linspire is version 6.0 which was released in October of 2007. Linspire is available to download and costs US$ 50.

[[Maemo]]

CATEGORIES: Debian-based Linux distributions

maemo (properly not capitalized ) is a project that oversees the development of the Internet Tablet OS and the maemo application development platform. The maemo project is paid for by Nokia.

[[MEPIS]]

CATEGORIES: Live CD, Ubuntu (operating system) derivatives, X86-64 Linux distributions, Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

MEPIS (pronunciation: meh-pis) is a set of Linux Distributions distributed as Live CDs. The most popular of these distributions is SimplyMEPIS. MEPIS distributions are based on Debian, some of them indirectly. For example, SimplyMEPIS 7.0 is based mainly on Debian, with additional source code from Ubuntu (which is also based on Debian). MEPIS distributions are created by Warren Woodford.

It can either be installed onto a hard drive or used as a Live CD, which makes it a boot disc for troubleshooting many operating systems. It includes KDE, the K Desktop Environment.

[[St. Louis Cardinals]]

CATEGORIES: St. Louis Cardinals

The St. Louis Cardinals (also called "the Cards" or "the Redbirds") are a Major League Baseball team based in St. Louis, Missouri. They are part of the Central Division in the National League. The Cardinals have won a National League record 11 World Series championships, second in Major League Baseball for most championships behind the New York Yankees, who have 27. They last won a World Series in 2011.

The Cardinals were started by the American Association in 1882 as the St. Louis Brown Stockings, who got their name from an earlier National League team. They joined the National League in 1892 and have been known as the Cardinals ever since 1900. The Cardinals began play in the current Busch Stadium in 2006, becoming the first team since 1923 to win the World Series in their first season in a new ballpark. They are the oldest current professional sports franchise west of the Mississippi River. The Cardinals have a strong rivalry with the Chicago Cubs that began in 1885.

[[NepaLinux]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

NepaLinux is a Debian and Morphix based Linux distribution focused on desktop usage in Nepali language computing. 

It contains applications for desktop users like OpenOffice.org, Nepali GNOME and KDE desktops, and a way for people to type Nepali text.

The development and distribution of NepaLinux is done by Madan Puraskar Pustakalaya.  Version 1.0 was produced as part of the PAN Localization Project, with the support of the International Development Research Centre (IDRC) of Canada. NepaLinux is an effort of promoting Free and Open Source Software in Nepal.

In October 2007, NepaLinux was the joint recipient of the Association for Progressive Communications' annual APC FOSS prize.

[[Monsters, Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 animated movies, 2001 computer-animated movies, 2012 3D movies, Disney animated movies, Impact of the September 11 attacks, Monsters, Inc., Movies composed by Randy Newman, Movies that won the Best Original Song Academy Award, 3D re-releases

Monsters, Inc. is a 2001 movie produced by Pixar Animation Studios. It was Pixar's fourth computer animated movie. The movie was released to theaters by Walt Disney Pictures in the United States on November 2, 2001. It was released in Australia on December 26, 2001 and in the United Kingdom on February 8, 2002.

Monsters, Inc. saw a 3D re-release in theaters on December 19, 2012. A prequel titled Monsters University, which was directed by Dan Scanlon, was released on June 21, 2013. A television series titled Monsters at Work will release on Disney+ in early 2021.

[[Durango]]

CATEGORIES: Durango, States of Mexico, 1824 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Mexico, 1820s establishments in North America

Durango is a state in northwest Mexico. About 1,510,000 people live there. Its capital is Victoria de Durango.

[[Girlfriend (disambiguation)]]

A girlfriend is a female friend or romantic partner.

Girlfriend may also mean:

[[Bohemian Rhapsody]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 songs, Queen songs

Bohemian Rhapsody is a song by English rock band Queen. It was written by Freddie Mercury, and was released on their 1975 album A Night at the Opera.

[[School of Rock]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, American comedy movies, American musical movies, Movies set in New York

School of Rock is a 2003 American musical comedy movie starring Jack Black.

[[Bay Area Rapid Transit]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United States, San Francisco Bay Area, Transport in California, 1972 establishments in California

Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) is a heavy rail public rapid transit system that serves the San Francisco Bay Area in northern California. It joins the cities of the East Bay, including Oakland, with San Francisco. Construction began in 1964. The first trains began running on September 11, 1972.

As of 2020, there were six main lines on the system, two of which only run during weekdays. There are 131 of track (using a wider-than-normal gauge of 1676 mm). There are 50 stations. Like other rapid transit systems in the world, tracks are in underground tunnels in inner cities, and on elevated viaducts in suburban areas. In some places, they are in the middle of freeways. The busiest part of the system is the Transbay Tube, a 3.6 underwater tunnel under the San Francisco Bay. Almost 150,000 people pass through the tube every day.

The fare which people pay to ride BART depends on how far they go. They first buy paper magnetic stripe cards inside the station. Then they insert this ticket into the gate, walk through the gate, and take the ticket out. They then get on board the train. Sometimes they have to change from one train to another to get to where they want to go. After they leave the train at their destination, they insert their ticket into the fare gate again to exit the station. Printed numbers on the card show how much money is left on the ticket. A passenger who enters and exits the same station will be charged an "excursion fare". As of July 28, 2012, the fare was $5.25.

In the 2000s, BART was expanded to reach San Francisco International Airport. It now goes as far as Millbrae. Two other branch lines have opened since then. In 2014, BART opened a short line to Oakland International Airport that uses trains pulled by cables. An extension of the Pittsburg line to Antioch, which opened in 2018, uses diesel multiple units on standard gauge tracks instead of the electric, broad-gauge trains used on the main lines. A project is also going on to expand the southern main line into San Jose. The entire extension was supposed to be completed in 2018. Instead, the first new stations were opened on June 13, 2020 after breakdowns in communication and testing with the line.

[[UMD]]

UMD could mean:

Universities:

[[Betty Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Singers from North Carolina

Betty Davis was funk-soul singer, famous in the 70's. She was married to the star of Jazz Miles Davis, from where she took her surname.

[[Let Go]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 albums, Avril Lavigne albums, Debut albums, Pop rock albums

Let Go is singer Avril Lavigne's first album. It was released on June 04, 2002. It has sold 16 million copies, making it Lavigne's best-selling album so far.

[[Anshan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Anshan (or Anzan, انشان, modern: Tal-i Malyan) was an ancient town in what was then Elam empire (today's Iran) in the province Fars. The oldest settlement may have been as early as 5500 BC.

[[University of Maryland, College Park]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Big Ten Conference, Colleges and universities in Maryland, Collegiate Water Polo Association, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, 1856 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Maryland

The University of Maryland, College Park, often called simply the University of Maryland, is a public university in College Park, Maryland. It is the largest university in a group called the "University System of Maryland."

[[Mario Smash Football]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Nintendo GameCube games, Mario sports games

Mario Smash Football (called Super Mario Strikers in North America) is a 2005 football video game made by Next Level Games and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo GameCube game console. A sequel was made on the Wii called Mario Strikers Charged Football.

[[Mario Strikers Charged]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Mario sports games, Wii games

Mario Strikers Charged Football (called Mario Strikers Charged in North America) is a 2007 football video game made by Next Level Games and published by Nintendo for the Wii game console.

[[Clubhouse Games]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games

Clubhouse Games is a 2006 video game published by Nintendo and developed by Agenda. It features 42 parlor games. It is for the Nintendo DS game console.

[[Halifax Explosion]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 in North America, 1910s in Canada, December events, Disasters in Canada, Disasters in the 20th century, Explosions in North America, Halifax, Nova Scotia

The Halifax explosion took place on December 6, 1917 when the SS Mont-Blanc, a French cargo ship loaded with explosives collided with the SS Imo, a Norwegian ship in the harbour in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. 1,782 people were killed and over 9,000 people were injured. This was the largest man-made explosion in history until July 1945 when the first atomic bomb blew up. It is still the largest accidental explosion in history.

[[Kassite dynasty]]

CATEGORIES: Eurasian nomads, History of Iran, History of Iraq, Mesopotamia, Royal dynasties

The Kassite dynasty was ruled by the Kassites. They were an obscure mountain tribe who came to power in Babylon after the collapse of the First Dynasty of Babylon in 1595 BC following a Hittite sack of the city, and became rulers of northern Babylonia. 

[[Rhythm Tengoku]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, Arcade games, Game Boy Advance games, Japan exclusive video games, Music video games, Sega arcade games

Rhythm Tengoku is a Japan-only music video game/mini-game-collection. It was made by Nintendo for the Game Boy Advance hand-held game console, and was later released in arcades. It was made by Nintendo's Research and Development 1. A sequel called Rhythm Tengoku Gold was released on the Nintendo DS in 2008.

[[Rhythm Heaven]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Music video games, Nintendo DS games, Nintendo DS-only games

Rhythm Tengoku Gold is a music video game made by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS handheld game console. It is the sequel to Rhythm Tengoku.

[[Caricature]]

CATEGORIES: Art

A caricature (from the Italian caricatura, which means "loaded portrait") is a portrait or drawing of a person that exaggerates the way they look, usually to create a humorous effect, or a political statement.

[[Cincinnati Red Stockings]]

CATEGORIES: Major League Baseball teams, Sports in Cincinnati, Ohio

The Cincinnati Red Stockings of 1869 were baseball's first all-professional team. The team is in Cincinnati, Ohio.   The Cincinnati Base Ball Club started in 1866 and played teams in the National Association of Base Ball Players 1867 to 1870. In 1969, Major League Baseball played those events officially by starting professional baseball.

The Red Stockings established styles in team uniforms and team nicknames that have some currency even in the 21st century. They also have a particular color, red, as the color of Cincinnati (and serve as the use of "Red Sox" in Boston as well).

[[Eddie Gaedel]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1961 deaths, Major League Baseball players, People with dwarfism, Sportspeople from Chicago

Edward Carl "Eddie" Gaedel (June 8, 1925– June 18, 1961) is a former professional baseball player. Gaedel played in his only major league game on August 19, 1951, against the Detroit Tigers. He got walked on four pitches in a row and was taken out of the game. Gaedel was officially listed as standing 3 and weighing 65.

[[Phở]]

CATEGORIES: Noodles, Soups, Vietnamese food

Phở Phở.oga is a traditional Vietnamese rice-noodle soup dish. It is served in a cup of tea. It has white rice noodles in beef broth with thin cuts of beef, vegetable, and spice such as chili or chili sauce. Sometimes, frog legs, shark intestines, snake heads, tendon, tripe, meatballs, chicken leg, chicken breast, or other organs (heart, liver, etc.) are also available. Pho that is cooked with chicken instead of beef is called phở gà.

Phở is a very popular food in Vietnam. It was brought to many other countries when Vietnamese immigrants and refugees moved to those places.

[[Company]]

CATEGORIES: Companies

A company is a type of business. The definition of the term varies by country. Some companies, usually larger ones, are organized as corporations. It is often a business organization which makes goods or services in an organized manner and sells them to the public for profit. It may also be a non-profit organization. A company may hire people to be the staff of the company.

The term is also used more broadly for any group who work together, such as the crew of a ship or the cast of a play.

[[Anti-social behaviour order]]

CATEGORIES: Law, Law enforcement in the United Kingdom

An ASBO, or an Antisocial behaviour order, is a British legal term for an order that is sometimes served on people who often behave badly and have many complaints made against them because of their behaviour. The order is designed to stop them from being anti-social, which means causing distress or alarm (among other things) to other people that do not live in the same place as themselves, according to the Crime & Disorder Act. 1998. ASBO's were ended and replaced with "Injunctions" in 2015

Some types of anti-social behaviour are:

An ASBO prohibits people from doing certain things, in certain times, in certain places. For instance, it might ban a person from gathering with certain friends in the park after 8 o'clock if that group of people have previously caused trouble together.

There is also something called an ABC, which stands for an Acceptable Behaviour Contract, and are often used to make sure people try to be "nice". It is flexible, and can be used in serious situations as well as low key ones.

Sometimes the ASBO can seem quite unusual when it is used to stop certain people from doing things, for example:

[[Massacres of Foibe]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s in Italy, Massacres during Word War II, Massacres in Europe, Yugoslavia

The Massacres of Foibe are the mass killings in which the majority of victims were ethnic Italians in 1943, after the capitulation of Italy on 8 September, and in 1945, when Yugoslav partisans under the command of Tito occupied parts of Venezia Giulia, Istria and Dalmatia. Historians have claimed the violence  and consequent Italian Istrian-Dalmatian exodus was a planned ethnic cleansing. National Memorial Day of the Exiles and Foibe is Italian celebration in memory of the victims.

[[Istrian-Dalmatian exodus]]

CATEGORIES: Dalmatia, 20th century in Italy, World War II

complexIstrian-Dalmatian exodus was the diaspora or forced migration of ethnic Italians from Istria, Fiume, and Dalmatia,  after World War II. Those territories were ethnically mixed since the Middle Ages. Most people were Italians, but there were also Slovenian, Croatian, Serbian and other communities.

National Memorial Day of the Exiles and Foibe is Italian celebration in memory of all exiles and victims in massacres of Foibe: murdered and survived.

[[Kochi, India]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Cities in Kerala

Kochi is a city in the state of Kerala, in India. It used to be called Cochin. It is also called the "Queen of the Arabian Sea". The city has the most people after the capital city of Kerala, Trivandrum. Kochi is the financial and commercial hub of the state. Kochi has a very old synagogue. It is usually called by the name Ernakulam, which is the mainland part of the city. Most regions in Kochi are at sea level. It has a coastline of almost 48. Kochi is the seat of the High Court of Kerala.Kochi was an important spice trading centre on the west coast of India from the 14th century onward, and maintained a trade network with Arab merchants from the pre-Islamic era. Occupied by the Portuguese in 1503, Kochi was the first of the European colonies in colonial India. It remained the main seat of Portuguese India until 1530, when Goa was chosen instead. The city was later occupied by the Dutch and the British, with the Kingdom of Cochin becoming a princely state. Kochi ranks first in the total number of international and domestic tourist arrivals in Kerala.The city was ranked the sixth best tourist destination in India according to a survey conducted by the Nielsen Company on behalf of the Outlook Traveller magazine. Kochi was one of the 28 Indian cities among the emerging 440 global cities that will contribute 50% of the world GDP by the year 2025, in a 2011 study done by the McKinsey Global Institute. In July 2018, Kochi was ranked the topmost emerging future megacity in India by global professional services firm JLL.

[[Italian cultural and historic presence in Dalmatia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Italy, Dalmatia, Montenegro

Italian cultural and historic presence in Dalmatia is related to the Italian influence in Dalmatia (now divided between Croatia, Herzegovina and Montenegro) from the historical and cultural points of view.

[[Frugivore]]

CATEGORIES: Animals

A frugivore is an animal that prefers to eat fruit.

[[Italian language in Croatia]]

CATEGORIES: Croatia

The Italian language is the third most spoken language (after Croatian and Serbian) in the Republic of Croatia today. It is an officially recognized minority language in Istria County (where it is spoken by 7.69% of the population).

[[Objectivism (Ayn Rand)]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical movements and positions

Objectivism is a philosophy that was started by Ayn Rand. It has four main ideas:

1. Everything that exists has an identity. This identity does not depend on how people think about it or talk about it. This is also true for things like feelings or ideas. It says that a thing is the thing which it is, or "A is A." What people learn about the things that exist comes both from the identity of the things themselves and from the way that people observe (see) and think about what they have observed.

2. Reason is how a person knows that what he thinks or believes is true. A person cannot make something true just by wanting it to be true or by mysticism. Only rational, logical thinking can produce the best outcome. This means recognizing that a thing is the thing it is, and to not confuse it with things which it is not.

3. It is good to be happy, and it is good for a person to try to be happy. People should always try to improve their lives and be happy in the long term, so that they are happy now and in the future. People should not hurt others to try to be happy, but they also should not hurt themselves to try to make other people happy. People should also not make themselves less happy to help something like God. Ayn Rand called this "rational self-interest".

4. If governments or criminals take things away from people, or try to make people do things they do not want to do, it does damage to everybody. Ayn Rand thought that governments should only be able to protect people from violence, theft, fraud, and other actions that go against people's rights. This includes laissez-faire capitalism and is sometimes called libertarianism.

She first told people these ideas in her novels The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged. She talked about them more in The Objectivist Newsletter, The Objectivist, The Ayn Rand Letter, Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology and The Virtue of Selfishness.

[[Dike (goddess)]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

Dike is the Greek goddess of moral justice for human being.

[[Dalmatia]]

CATEGORIES: Dalmatia

Dalmatia is a region of the Balkan Peninsula along the Adriatic Sea. It mostly belongs to Croatia. It goes from the island of Rab in the northwest to the Bay of Kotor (in Montenegro) in the southeast. 

[[Konrad Lorenz]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1989 deaths, Naturalists, Zoologists, Austrian scientists, Austrian Nobel Prize winners, Ethologists

Konrad Zacharias Lorenz (Vienna, 7 November 1903 – Vienna, 27 February 1989) was an Austrian zoologist, naturalist, ornithologist and Nobel Prize winner. He is one of the founders of studies on animal behaviour (ethology). Lorenz studied instinctive behavior in animals, especially in Greylag geese and jackdaws.

[[Virtualization]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

Virtualization (or Virtualisation) is a word used in computing. Virtualization means that the users (programs, or real people) only see an abstraction of a computer resource. Virtualization can be done in software, or with hardware. 

[[Dalmatian Italians]]

CATEGORIES: Italian-speaking countries, Dalmatia, Italy, History of Italy, Montenegro

Dalmatian Italians are Italians whose family comes from Dalmatia in today's Croatia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina.

[[Chukar]]

CATEGORIES: Phasianidae, National symbols of Pakistan, Birds of Pakistan, Birds of Kashmir, Galliformes

The chukar (Alectoris chukar) is a Eurasian upland gamebird in the pheasant family Phasianidae of the order Galliformes, gallinaceous birds. Other common names of this bird include 'Chukker' (sometimes misspelled as 'Chuker'), 'Chukar Partridge', 'Red-legged Partridge', 'Rock Partridge', 'Indian Hill Partridge', 'Chukka', 'Chukkar', 'Chukor', 'Chukore', 'Chikone', 'Kabk', 'Kau-Kau', and 'Keklik'. The Chukar is the National bird of Pakistan respectively..

[[Soral]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Geneva

Soral is a municipality of the Canton of Geneva, Switzerland.

[[The Matrix Reloaded]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, Matrix series, Drone movies, IMAX movies, Sequel movies, Warner Bros. movies

The Matrix Reloaded is a 2003 movie written and directed by the Wachowski brothers.  It is a sequel to The Matrix (1999). It is a prequel to The Matrix Revolutions.

[[Get Smart]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s television series, Fox television series, NBC network shows, CBS network shows, Spy television series, 1960s American television series, English-language television programs

Get Smart was a television series that was shown on NBC from September 18, 1965 to April 12, 1969. It was then shown on CBS from September 26, 1969, to September 11, 1970. It made fun of the secret agent genre. It starred Don Adams as Maxwell Smart, Barbara Feldon as Agent 99, and Edward Platt as the chief. Max Smart worked for a secret organization called CONTROL. Their enemy was KOAS. In 1980, a movie The Nude Bomb was released in theaters. In 1989, a television movie was shown called, Get Smart, Again!. Because of the good success of the movie, FOX created a new TV series called Get Smart, which featured Don Adams as Max Smart, now chief of CONTROL. A movie based on the series was released on June 20, 2008. It starred Steve Carell as Max Smart, Anne Hathaway as Agent 99 and Alan Arkin as the chief.  Roger Ebert gave it good reviews.

[[AFL–CIO]]

CATEGORIES: Trade unions in the United States

The American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, called the AFL-CIO, is a group of labor unions in the United States and Canada. There are 54 national different unions in the group, and they speak for over 10 million workers. It was started in 1955, when the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations joined after a long argument. From 1955 to 2005, almost all union workers in the U.S. were part of the AFL-CIO. However, in 2005, some large unions (like the Teamsters) left the AFL-CIO.

The president of the AFL-CIO, Richard Trumka served from 2009 until his death on August 5, 2021.

[[List of mathematical symbols]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics lists, Symbols, Mathematical notation

The following list contains some of the most notable symbols in mathematics. Please note that these symbols may have alternate meanings in different contexts.

[[Jonas Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 establishments in the United States, 2013 disestablishments in the United States, American boy bands, American pop music groups, Disney actors, Musical groups established in 2005, Musical groups disestablished in 2013, Musical groups from New Jersey, Musical trios, 2000s establishments in New Jersey, 2010s disestablishments in New Jersey, 2019 in entertainment

The Jonas Brothers were an American Christian Pop band from Wyckoff, New Jersey. It is made up of three brothers: Kevin Jonas, Joe, and Nick Jonas. They released four albums before disbanding: It's About Time in 2006, Jonas Brothers in 2007, A Little Bit Longer in 2008, and Lines, Vines and Trying Times in 2009.

The band reunited in 2019, releasing the song "Sucker" as the lead single from their new album, Happiness Begins.  Happiness Begins entered at number one on the Billboard 200. "Sucker" became their first chart-topper.

[[Artificial turf]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

Artificial turf, or synthetic turf, is a man-made (something made by humans) surface made from synthetic materials, made to look like natural grass. It is most often used in arenas for sports that are normally played on grass. However, it is also used on lawns and in commercial applications. The main advantage of artificial turf is low cost of maintenance as there is no need to water it and trim it. Disadvantages include toxicity, limited lifetime, and the requirement for cleaning. Artificial turf is extremely popular in sporting industry - especially in US and regions where weather or heavy use makes it difficult to sustain high quality live turf.

Artificial grass was first used in 1966 when it was installed in the Houston Astrodome, the world’s first domed indoor multipurpose sports stadium. During the stadium’s inaugural season in 1965 its real grass failed to grow. By the second half of the season the field conditions were so bad that they installed artificial grass, called "Astroturf".

[[Newgrange]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in Europe, County Meath

Newgrange is a Megalithic Passage Tomb at Newgrange, County Meath, Republic of Ireland. It was built about 3200 BC. The kidney shaped mound covers an area of over one acre and is surrounded by 97 kerbstones, some of which are decorated with megalithic art. The 19 metre long inner passage leads to a cruciform chamber with a corbelled roof. It is estimated that the construction of the Passage Tomb at Newgrange would have taken a work force of 300 at least 20 years.April 2009

The passage and chamber of Newgrange are lit up by the winter solstice sunrise. A shaft of sunlight shines through the roof box over the entrance and penetrates the passage to light up the chamber. The dramatic event lasts for 17 minutes at dawn on the Winter Solstice and for a few mornings either side of the Winter Solstice.

Admission to the Newgrange chamber for the Winter Solstice sunrise is by lottery, application forms are available at the Brú na Bóinne Visitor Centre. For the 2007 draw 28,106 applications were submitted. In September each year, 50 names are drawn with 2 places are awarded to each name drawn.

[[David Ortiz]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Boston Red Sox players, Dominican Republic sportspeople, Minnesota Twins players

David Américo Ortiz Arias (born November 18, 1975 in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic)  is a former Major League Baseball designated hitter who played for the Boston Red Sox. Ortiz used to play for the Minnesota Twins from 1997-2002. Nicknamed "Big Papi" or "Señor Papi", Ortiz has played in four All-Star Games. He holds the Red Sox single-season record for home runs with 54, which he set during the 2006 season. He also won the 2010 Home Run DeCareer

[[Mumtaz Mahal]]

CATEGORIES: Indian people, 1593 births, 1631 deaths

Arjumand Banu Begum (also called Mumtaz Mahal) was the second wife of Shah Jahan, the Mughal emperor.  Mumtaz Mahal (meaning 'Jewel of the palace') was the nickname her husband gave to her.April 2009

[[Imam]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, Religious occupations

An imam  (إمام; امام) is an Islamic leader, often the leader of a mosque and/or community. Similarly to spiritual leaders, the imam is the person who leads the prayer during Islamic gatherings. More often the community turn to the mosque imam, if they have an Islamic question. In smaller communities an imam could be the community leader based on the community setting.

Shia Islam uses the term differently. Shiites give the title to only the one true leader of all the faithful.

[[Earthsea]]

CATEGORIES: Earthsea books

Earthsea is a fictional place made by Ursula K. Le Guin for her short story "The Word of Unbinding" in 1964, but that became more famous in her book A Wizard of Earthsea, first written in 1968. The books that follow A Wizard of Earthsea are The Tombs of Atuan, The Farthest Shore, Tehanu, Tales from Earthsea and The Other Wind. These are all set in the world of Earthsea

[[OpenZaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Debian-based Linux distributions

OpenZaurus is a Debian-based embedded Linux distribution for the Sharp Zaurus personal mobile tool PDA.

[[Dan Simmons]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Illinois, Science fiction writers, Hugo Award winning writers, 1948 births, Living people, People from Peoria, Illinois

Dan Simmons (born April 4, 1948 in Peoria, Illinois) is an American writer. He is best known for his Hugo Award-winning series called the Hyperion Cantos, and for his Locus Award-winning Ilium/Olympos cycle. He writes in genres such as science fiction, horror and fantasy.

[[Hyperion Cantos]]

CATEGORIES: Hyperion, Hugo Award winning books

The Hyperion Cantos is a series of science fiction books that were written by Dan Simmons.

Hyperion received the Hugo Award for best novel in 1990 and The Fall of Hyperion was nominated for the Nebula Award for best novel in 1990. Three of the novels received the Locus Award for best science fiction novel: Hyperion (1990), The Fall of Hyperion (1991) and The Rise of Endymion (1998). The author recently said that a movie might be made about the series.

[[Hyperion]]

Hyperion is a Titan in Greek mythology.

Hyperion may also mean:

In science:

In fiction:

[[Hyperion (book)]]

CATEGORIES: Hyperion, 1989 books, Hugo Award winning books, Science fiction books, American novels

Hyperion is a science fiction book that was written by Dan Simmons in 1989. It is the first book of his Hyperion Cantos series.  The book won the Hugo Award award in 1989 for best novel.

[[The Fall of Hyperion]]

CATEGORIES: Hyperion, 1990 books

The Fall of Hyperion is the second science fiction book in his Hyperion Cantos series by Dan Simmons. It was written in 1990 and was nominated for the Nebula Award for Best Novel that same year. It was also nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Book in 1991.

[[Endymion (Hyperion)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 books, Hyperion

Endymion is the third science fiction book written by Dan Simmons in his Hyperion Cantos series. The novel was extremely successful-within a year of its release, the book had been reprinted five times. The novel was nominated for the 1996 British Fantasy Award.

[[The Rise of Endymion]]

CATEGORIES: Hyperion, 1997 books

The Rise of Endymion is a 1997 science fiction book by Dan Simmons. It is the fourth and last book in his Hyperion Cantos series. The book was nominated for the 1997 British Fantasy Award and the 1998 Hugo Award for Best Book.

[[Predicate logic]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In logic and philosophy, predicate logic is a system of mathematical logic. It uses predicates to express the state of certain things, which are "incomplete propositions" with a placeholder for objects or subjects that must be inserted in order to obtain a valid proposition. 

Predicate logic is different from propositional logic, in part because it has the concept of quantifiers. A quantifier is used in conjunction with a variable (say x) in order to talk about a general instance of x, and in doing so, this allows predicate logic to make statements about quantity.

The best-known quantifiers are the existential quantifier, represented by ∃, and the universal quantifier, represented by ∀. The existential quantifier is used to express statements of the form "there exists", and is true precisely when there is at least one mathematical object from the universe of discourse that matches the predicate or formula. On the other hand, the universal quantifier is used to express statements of the form "for all", and is true precisely when all possible mathematical objects of the universe of discourse match the specified predicate or formula.

[[Arapaho language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of the United States

The Arapaho language (also Arapahoe) is a Plains Algonquian language (an areal rather than genetic grouping) spoken by elders in Wyoming.  It is now spoken very little, and is in danger of becoming extinct.

[[Assamese language]]

CATEGORIES: Indo-Aryan languages, Languages of Bangladesh, Assam, Languages of India

Assamese (অসমীয়া translated asÔxômiya) (ɔxɔmija) is the easternmost Indo-Aryan language, spoken most in the state of Assam in North-East India. It is also the main language of Assam. It is spoken in parts of Arunachal Pradesh and other northeast Indian states.

[[Avar language]]

CATEGORIES: Caucasian languages, Languages of Russia, Languages of Azerbaijan, Languages of Asia, Languages of Europe

The Avar language (self-designation магӀарул мацӀ maʦʼ "language of the mountains" or Авар мацӀ maʦʼ "Avar language") belongs to the Avar-Andi-Tsez subgroup of the Alarodian Northeast-Caucasian (or Nakh-Dagestani) language family. It is spoken most in the eastern and southern parts of the Russian Caucasus republic of Dagestan, and the Balaken, Zakatala north-west area of Azerbaijan.

[[Azerbaijani language]]

CATEGORIES: Turkic languages, Languages of Azerbaijan, Languages of Iran, Languages of Russia, Languages of Asia, Languages of Europe, Azerbaijani culture

The Azerbaijani language, also called Azeri, is a Turkic language that is spoken in Azerbaijan and northwestern Iran. Azerbaijani is the official language of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 

Azerbaijani is also spoken in Dagestan (a republic of Russia), south-eastern and eastern Georgia, north eastern Turkey and in some parts of Ukraine and in northwestern Iran. In Dagesten, there are over 30 different languages, and Russian is used as a lingua franca.

[[Bashkir language]]

CATEGORIES: Turkic languages, Languages of Russia

The Bashkir language (Native name: bashqort_tele.ogg tɨiɨ) is a Turkic language. Speakers of the Bashkir language mostly live in the Russian republic of Bashkortostan. A large number of speakers also live in Tatarstan, Udmurtia, Perm Krai, Chelyabinsk, Orenburg, Sverdlovsk, and Kurgan Oblasts.

[[Od language]]

CATEGORIES: Indo-European languages, Languages of Pakistan

Od (also called Oad, Odki) is a language spoken mostly about the Sindh and in a few in southern Punjab. It may also be spoken in Rajasthan, Republic of India.

[[Ilium/Olympos]]

CATEGORIES: Ilium/Olympos, Science fiction books

Ilium/Olympos is a science fiction series that was written by Dan Simmons. The events in the books are set in motion by beings who have taken on the roles of the Greek gods. The first book in the series, Illium received the Locus Award for best book in 2004.

[[Ilium (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 books, Ilium/Olympos, Science fiction books

Ilium is a science fiction book that was written by Dan Simmons.  It is the first part of the Ilium/Olympos cycle, and is about the re-creation of the events in the Iliad on Mars.

In July 2004, Ilium got the Locus Award for best science fiction novel of 2003. It was later nominated for the 2004 Hugo Award for best book.

[[Olympos (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 books, Ilium/Olympos

Olympos is a book that was written by Dan Simmons in 2005, and is the sequel to Ilium It is a science fiction book that ends the series Ilium/Olympos. It uses ideas from the Iliad and the Odyssey.

[[Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 1979 deaths, Pakistani people, People executed by hanging, Presidents of Pakistan, Prime Ministers of Pakistan, Socialists, Speakers of the National Assembly of Pakistan

Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto (ذوالفقار علی بھٹو, ذوالفقار علي ڀُٽو; January 5, 1928 – April 4, 1979) was a Pakistani politician. He was the President of Pakistan from 1971 to 1973. He was Prime Minister of Pakistan from 1973 to 1977. He was the founder of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), the largest and most influential political party in Pakistan. 

He was educated at the University of California, Berkeley in the United States and Oxford University in the United Kingdom. Bhutto was executed by hanging in 1979 for ordering the murder of a political opponent. His execution was ordered by General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq. Bhutto's supporters give him the honorific title Shaheed, the Urdu word for martyr. His name then becomes Shaheed-e-Azam Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto ("The Great Martyr") or sometimes Quaid-e-Awam (The Leader the Community).

He was married to Nusrat Bhutto (née Ispahnie) from 1951 until his death. Their elder daughter, Benazir Bhutto (1953-2007), was also Prime Minister of Pakistan, twice. The couple had three other children: son Murtaza Bhutto (1954-1996) daughter Sanam Bhutto (born 1957), and son Shahnawaz Bhutto (1958-1985).

[[Pothohar Plateau]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms of Pakistan, Punjab (Pakistan), Plateaus

The Pothohar Plateau (also spelled Pothwar, Potwar or Potohar) (سطح مرتفع پوٹھوہار) is a plateau in Punjab, Pakistan. The area was the home of the Soan Culture (a stone age culture), and there are many fossils, tools, coins, and remains of ancient archaeological sites. The local people speak a dialect of Punjabi, called Pothohari or 'Potwari'.

[[Pahari languages]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Pakistan, Kashmir, Languages of India

Pahari (or Pahaari) is a word for a number of dialects spoken across the Himalayan range, not limited to a single country.  The word comes from 'pahar' meaning mountain. The word 'Pahaari' or 'Pahari' is an adjective in Hindi, Urdu, or Punjabi and it means 'of the mountain', so 'Pahari' means 'language of the mountain people'.

Pakistan, India and Nepal are all countries along which the Himalayas run, and in all three countries the word for mountain is Pahar this is due to the fact that Urdu, Nepali, Hindi and Punjabi are all related languages (they are all Indic languages of the Indo-European language family).  The Pahari language is also part of this group.  Travel in mountainous areas is difficult, so dialects close to each other can be very different.

[[Bose-Einstein statistics]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics, Physics, Quantum mechanics

In statistical mechanics, Bose-Einstein statistics means the statistics of a system where you can not tell the difference between any of the particles, and the particles are bosons. Bosons are fundamental particles like the photon.

The Bose-Einstein distribution tells you how many particles have a certain energy. The formula is

[[Activision]]

CATEGORIES: Video game companies, American technology companies, 1979 establishments in the United States

Activision is an American video game company. It was the first third party in the industry's history. It was founded on October 1, 1979. On July 9, 2008, it merged with Vivendi to make a new company called Activision Blizzard. Activision is best known for Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, Call of Duty, and Guitar Hero.

[[OXO]]

CATEGORIES: Puzzle video games, Early video games and events

OXO is a tic-tac-toe video game, and one of the first video game ever made. It was made in 1952 for the EDSAC computer by Alexander S. Douglas for his Ph.D. thesis on human-computer interaction at the University of Cambridge. 

[[Will Wright (game developer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Businesspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), People from Atlanta, Georgia, Video game designers

Will Wright (born on January 20, 1960 in Atlanta, Georgia) is an American video game developer and is the co-founder of Maxis, now a part of Electronic Arts. He's most famous for SimCity, The Sims and Spore.  He is currently working on a new project, and has set up the "Stupid Fan Club".

[[Pikmin]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 video games, Nintendo GameCube games, Pikmin series

Pikmin is a real-time strategy video game made by Nintendo for the GameCube game console. It was one of the launch titles made for the GameCube, and is one of the only games Shigeru Miyamoto designed in its generation. It's about a person called Captain Olimar who crash-lands on a planet and meets creatures called Pikmin, who he uses to protect himself and find his ship parts before he runs out of air.

[[Pikmin 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, Nintendo GameCube games, Pikmin series

Pikmin 2 is a real-time strategy video game made by Nintendo for the Nintendo GameCube game console. It is the sequel to Pikmin. It's about Olimar and his friend Louie going back to the planet from Pikmin to find treasure to save his boss' company. Olimar and Louie control a hoard of Pikmin and give them commands, which include collecting objects, fighting enemies, and reaching near places.

[[Sid Meier]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Video game people, People from Ontario, 1954 births

Sid Meier (born at February 24 1954 in Sarnia, Ontario) is an Canadian-American video game developer, most well known for his turn-based strategy games. He founded Microprose in 1982 with Bill Stealey. In 1996 he left Microprose and joined Firaxis Games.

[[Ralph H. Baer]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2014 deaths, Engineers from New York, American inventors, American Jews, Businesspeople from New York City, German businesspeople, German engineers, German inventors, German Jews, Jewish businesspeople, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Businesspeople from New Hampshire, Scientists from New Hampshire, Scientists from New York City, People from Manchester, New Hampshire, People from Rhineland-Palatinate, Refugees from Nazism, Video game people

Ralph Henry Baer (March 8, 1922 – December 6, 2014) was a German-American inventor and engineer, known for his contributions to the video game industry.

Because he was of Jewish descent, Baer moved to New York City in 1938. He later became a U.S. citizen.

He died at his home in Manchester, New Hampshire on December 6, 2014, according to family and friends close to him. He was 92 years old.

[[Pong]]

CATEGORIES: 1972, Arcade games, Atari video games

Pong is a video game made by Atari. It is believed to be the first video game ever made, although it was made after games similar to it were also made, including Tennis for Two and could be emulated by WinUaw.

To play the game a quarter or token must be put into the game machine's slot. Two knobs, are called "paddles" because they control the tennis paddle on the screen.  Turn the knob one way and the paddle goes up. Turn the knob the other way and the paddle goes down. The other knob does the same thing to the other paddle on the screen.

[[Nolan Bushnell]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Atari, Businesspeople from Utah, Video game people

Nolan Bushnell (born February 5, 1943) is an American electrical engineer and entrepreneur. He founded both Atari Inc. (alongside Ted Dabney) and Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza-Time Theaters. Bushnell is in the Video Game Hall of Fame and the Consumer Electronics Association Hall of Fame.  He got the BAFTA Fellowship and the Nations Restaurant News “Innovator of the Year” award.  He was named one of Newsweek's "50 Men Who Changed America." Bushnell has started more than twenty companies. He is one of the founding fathers of the video game industry.

Bushnell graduated from the University of Utah with a degree in electrical engineering in 1968. Bushnell was raised in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but is no longer an active member.

Bushnell was featured in the documentary film Something Ventured which premiered in 2011.

Bushnell's most recent company is uWink.

[[Dragon Warrior]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 video games, Game Boy games, Game Boy Color games, Mobile games, MSX games, NEC PC-9801 games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Role-playing video games

Dragon Warrior (called Dragon Quest in Japan) is a role-playing video game made by Chunsoft and published by Enix Corporation and Nintendo of America for the Nintendo Entertainment System game console. It is the first in the Dragon Quest series.

[[X2 (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, 2000s superhero movies, X-Men movies, English-language movies, Movies composed by John Ottman, Movies produced by Lauren Shuler Donner, Movies directed by Bryan Singer, 20th Century Fox movies

X2 (known as X-Men 2: X-Men United in advertising) is a 2003 superhero movie. It was directed by Bryan Singer. It is a sequel to X-Men (2000) movie and was followed by X-Men: The Last Stand (2006).

[[Pete Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Montreal Expos players

Bryan Owen "Pete" Young (born March 19 1968 in Meadville, Mississippi) is a former right-handed relief pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for the Montreal Expos in 1992 and 1993. He went to  Mississippi State University, where he played college baseball.

[[Pete Smith]]

Pete Smith may mean:

[[Howard Florey]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1968 deaths, Australian Nobel Prize winners, Australian medical researchers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Australia, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Scientists from South Australia, Knights Bachelor, British Barons, Legion of Honour, Order of Merit, People from Adelaide, Rhodes scholars

Howard Walter Florey, Baron Florey OM FRS (24 September 1898 – 21 February 1968) was an Australian pathologist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for 1945, for his study into penicillin. He was appointed a knight bachelor, and later a baron.

[[DJ (disambiguation)]]

DJ or dj may mean:

[[Steam locomotive]]

CATEGORIES: Locomotives

A steam locomotive is a steam powered railway locomotive. It was used a lot between about 1830 and 1970. Afterwards, diesel and electric locomotives were used more often. The first steam locomotive was made by Richard Trevithick for a railway used for moving iron at an Ironworks in Wales. A steam locomotive works by burning a fuel like coal in a special space called a firebox. This produces hot gases that rise and go through tubes in a boiler - a large space with water in it. This heats the water, producing steam. The steam is then taken through another tube to a cylinder. The steam then pushes the piston which in turn pushes a metal rod that is connected to the wheels, making the locomotive move. The steam then rises out through the chimney.

Steam locomotives are still today used in many developing countries where the railways have not yet been electrified.

[[Conjunction]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of speech

Conjunctions are words which join phrases, clauses and sentences.

Conjunctions have three basic forms which are shown in the table below.

Conjunctions also have two functions, as shown below.

Although some people say it's not correct to use conjunctions at the beginning of a sentences, many famous writers do so.

[[Soanian]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Pakistan

The Soanian  is an archaeological site that is dated to (comes from) the early stone age.  The name comes from the Soan Valley in the Sivalik Hills in Pakistan.  The people who lived on this site were probably Homo erectus, the first people to control fire.

Hundreds of stone knives were found at the site, as well as hand axes and cleavers. No human skeletons of this age have been found. In the Soan River Gorge many rocks with fossils can be seen. The 14 million year old fossils of gazelles, rhinoceroses, crocodiles, giraffes and rodents have been found. Some of these fossils are on display at the Natural History Museum of Islamabad.

[[Richard Hakluyt]]

CATEGORIES: 1550s births, 1616 deaths, English writers, English explorers

Richard Hakluyt (ˈhæklʊt/, /ˈhæklət, or /ˈhækəlwɪt/) (c. 1552 or 1553 – 23 November 1616) was an English writer. He is famous for his efforts in promoting the settlement of North America by the English through his works. His most important books are Divers Voyages Touching the Discoverie of America (1582) and The Principal Navigations, Voiages, Traffiques and Discoueries of the English Nation (1598–1600).

[[Ashurbanipal]]

CATEGORIES: Mesopotamian people, 685 BC births, 627 BC deaths

Ashurbanipal (685 BC – 627 BC), the son of Esarhaddon, was the last great king of the Neo-Assyrian Empire. He established (started) the first organized library in the ancient Middle East, the Library of Ashurbanipal, which survives in part today at Nineveh.

In the Bible he is called Asenappar. Roman historian Justinus identified him as Sardanapalus, and describes him as effeminate.

[[Édouard Daladier]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1970 deaths, French mayors, French military personnel of World War I, French people of World War II, Government ministers of France, People from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, Prime Ministers of France

Édouard Daladier (18 June 1884 - 10 October 1970) was a French socialist politician, and Prime Minister of France at the start of the Second World War.  He was one of the politicians who tried to stop the war at the Munich conference in 1938, together with the British prime minister, Neville Chamberlain and the two dictators of Germany and Italy, Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini.

[[1989-90 NHL season]]

The 1989–90 NHL season was the 73rd season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-one teams each played 80 games. The Stanley Cup winners were the Edmonton Oilers, who won the best of seven series 4–1 against the Boston Bruins.The championship was the Oilers' fifth Stanley Cup in the past four years.

This also marked the first time that all three New York City metro area teams made the playoffs in the same season.

[[Munich Agreement]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 in Germany, 20th century in Munich, September events, World War II

The Munich Agreement  was an agreement between France, Italy, Nazi Germany and Britain.  After Germany threatened an invasion of the Sudetenland in Czechoslovakia, the British and French prime ministers tried to get Hitler to agree not to use his military in the future in return for taking the land, including the Rhineland and others. After Hitler agreed, most people thought the agreement was a success, but Hitler invaded the rest of Czechoslovakia in 1939. Later that year, the Second World War started.

[[Dawson Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Chile

Dawson Island (Lat: 53º  58’ 12” S Long: 70º 34’ 48”W) is an island in the Strait of Magellan. It is in the Tierra del Fuego archipelago. It is 100 south of the city of Punta Arenas in Chile. It is part of the municipality of Punta Arenas. It is southeast of Brunswick Peninsula. It is an approximately 1290 tract of land that often has harsh Antarctic weather. Its population was 415 as of the 1992 census, and 301 as of 2002. The settlements are Puerto Harris, Puerto San Antonio and Puerto Almeida.

[[Strike]]

Strike may mean:

Strike may refer to a fight, including:

In sports and games:

[[Strike action]]

CATEGORIES: Labor

A strike action (or simply a strike) is when many workers stop working in protest.  Strikes are usually done by a labor union to get better pay, hours, or working conditions.  They became important during the Industrial Revolution, when many worked in factories and mines. In many countries, it is against the law to strike.  In other countries, people who strike are protected under certain conditions.

Strikes generally take the form of a picket line.  The workers walk in front of where they work, chanting and holding signs.  Workers on strike usually do not stop people from crossing the picket line.  However, some people will not cross a picket line to buy something from the company.  This is a way of showing solidarity (or support) for the union.  Most unions will also not cross a picket line and do business with companies on strike.  For example, members of the Teamsters, a truck driving union, will not deliver to a business that is on strike.  

[[Bird flight]]

CATEGORIES: Birds, Fluid mechanics

Flight is a method of moving through the air.  To do this, birds use wings with light, hollow bones and feathers on them.  Birds have a streamlined body shape, so that they slip through air more easily.

Birds can move by flapping their wings, or they can stay in the same place. This is called hovering, with rapid wing beats, as with the kestrel. Birds that  soar use very little energy for it: they use columns of rising hot air to lift them. They glide from the top of a warm air current, and then move on to another warm air current. That way birds like buzzards can fly all day while using little energy.

Birds like hawks and gannets dive on their prey. They get to a height, them fold their wings and dive head-first.

[[Super Mario Land]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 video games, Game Boy games, Mario platform games, Nintendo Research & Development 1 games

Super Mario Land is a platform video game made by Nintendo for the Game Boy game console. It is one of the only two Mario games designed by Gunpei Yokoi, and the first Mario game for a handheld console.

[[Mario (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Mario video games

Mario is a series of popular platform games by Nintendo, featuring Nintendo's mascot Mario and, in most of the games, his brother Luigi. The Mario series has been running for more than 40 years, and in has released more than 200 video games. The series has been named the best-selling video game series in history, with over 262 million combined units sold.

The series started out in 1981 with the arcade video game, Donkey Kong, and has since then taken off into its own series. It was created by Shigeru Miyamoto, Mario, going under the name Jumpman when Donkey Kong was first released, is the main protagonist throughout most of the series; the main antagonist of the series is Bowser, the King of all Koopas. Most of the games have something to do with jumping and defeating enemies. The games usually feature simple storylines. The most common theme in the series is Bowser, the main villain, taking away Princess Peach, who the Mario brothers try to save during the games. 

[[Palindrome]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics

A palindrome is a word, sentence, or number that reads the same from left to right as from right to left. Punctuation does not matter, but letters and digits do. All alphabetic languages have palindromes. The first palindrome was the Latin Sator Square, which reads:

You can read it horizontally, backwards, even vertically!

[[Environmentalism]]

CATEGORIES: Environmental issues, Green politics

Environmentalism is both a philosophy and a social movement that is about protecting nature. It advocates helping to preserve, protect, and restore the natural environment from damage.  Environmentalists often talk about threats to the earth from pollution, climate change and overpopulation.  Environmentalism is both personal and political.  In their own lives, environmentalists do things that are better for the earth, such as recycling, using natural products, and supporting businesses that try not to harm the environment.  Politically, they support laws that help the environment, like laws against pollution.

The word Environmentalism comes from 'environmental' and '-ism'.  'Environmental' is the chemical, physical, and biological components of the environment while '-ism' is a suffix used to create action nouns out of verbs.

[[Samurai Champloo]]

CATEGORIES: Anime, Manga

Samurai Champloo is a Japanese anime television show. Mugen is a fierce animal-like warrior with a unique Bboying (break-dance) inspired fighting style. Jin has a more traditional style. The two opposing samurai warriors are far from friends, yet their split paths seem to cross anyways. Mugen is wandering aimlessly through the city when he walks upon a teahouse where he meets Jin and Fuu. Fuu convinces them both to come with her in search of a mysterious samurai that smells like sunflowers and their journey begins. This modernized hip-hop tale breaks the barriers of the common, historical, samurai anime.

This anime contains 26 episodes and two seasons, documenting the journey of these three misfits.  The episodes are shown on Adult Swim from time to time, but never consistently.  Whenever on American television, only the first season is aired.

[[Chris Thile]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Musicians from California, Singers from California

Chris Thile (ˈθiːlɪ) (born February 20, 1981) is an American musician, best known as a member of acoustic band Nickel Creek. He has made six albums as a solo artist and with his band, Punch Brothers. His first, Leading Off, was released in 1994 when Thile was 13. Thile has also played and recorded with artists like Mike Marshall, Béla Fleck, Glen Phillips, and Edgar Meyer.

Thile's third album, Not All Who Wander Are Lost, was released in 2001. His fourth, Deceiver had all songs written and performed by Thile alone. His most recent solo work was 2006's How to Grow a Woman from the Ground, and Thile released Punch in 2008 with the band Punch Brothers. Also in 2008, Thile will make an album with Edgar Meyer, which will come out in the fall.

[[Košice]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Slovakia

Košice (Kaschau, Kassa IPA kɒʃɪtsə) is the second biggest city in Slovakia, and the biggest city in eastern Slovakia. About 235,000 people live in the city. Košice was founded in 1230.

[[International Brotherhood of Teamsters]]

CATEGORIES: Trade unions in the United States, 1903 establishments in the United States

The International Brotherhood of Teamsters (also just called the Teamsters) is an American labor union of truck drivers, airline workers, food processors, graphic designers, police officers, and other employees. With over 1.4 million members, it is one of the largest unions in the United States.

[[Boyfriend (disambiguation)]]

A boyfriend means a partner in a romantic relationship in which the two people are not married to each other.

Boyfriend or boyfriends can mean:

[[Entente cordiale]]

CATEGORIES: 1904, 20th century in France, 1900s in the United Kingdom

The Entente cordiale (French for 'friendly agreement') was a number of agreements signed on 8 April 1904 between the United Kingdom and France. Both countries were worried that their growing empires would cause a war between them. The agreement was the end of almost 1000 years of frequent wars.

The agreement led to the Triple Entente (including Russia), which fought the Triple Alliance (Germany, Italy and Austria-Hungary) in the First World War and has lasted ever since. It was the start of the Triple Entente and the first step to stopping Germany from expanding. France had more chance with Britain of winning against Germany on the Western Front.

[[Parma wallaby]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods, Marsupials of Australia

The Parma wallaby (Macropus parma) is the smallest of the macropus genus. It can grow up to 52 cm in length, with a tail about the same length. They weigh up to 5 kg. The Parma wallaby's fur is a grey-brown colour on the back with a dark stripe. It has a white stripe on its face, and a white belly.

In the late 1800s it was thought to be extinct. Parma wallabies had been introduced and established on Kauwau Island, New Zealand, where they were rediscovered in the 1960s. A lot of effort was made to capture and take the wallabies back to Australia. A small, wild group was found in Gosford, New South Wales in the 1970s by Eric Worrell from the Australian Reptile Park. Parma wallabies are officially listed as vulnerable because there are not many of them, they only live in small areas, and they are threatened by land clearing and other animals such as foxes.

[[Triple Entente]]

CATEGORIES: Military alliances, World War I, 20th century in the United Kingdom, 20th century in France, 20th century in Russia

The Triple Entente (English: Triple Agreement) was the name given to an alliance between the United Kingdom, France and the Russian Empire. The alliance was made after the Anglo-Russian Entente, an agreement between Britain and Russia in 1907. The alliance was made stronger by agreements made with Japan, the United States and Spain. In this form, there was a balance of power, which meant that no group was much stronger than any other one, with the "Triple Alliance" of Germany, Austria-Hungary and Italy. If Italy was attacked by France she would have the help of the other two powers, and if France attacked Germany Italy would help Germany and danger was that if triple alliance was if France should come into an agreement with Russia. The was solved by Bismarck by persuading Russia and Austria Hungary to revive the old Dreikaiserbund treaty.            

With the First World War, these ententes were not military agreements - but they later involved the military because of the problems between the Triple Alliance and the Triple Entente. That's why the Triple Entente became a military alliance. In 1915, Italy left the Triple Alliance, and from 1916 fought against Germany. The Russian revolution in October 1917 meant that Russia left the alliance, but the military alliance between France and the UK lasted until 1940, when Nazi Germany invaded France.

Later on, Italy joined the Entente in a battle against Austria–Hungary in May 1915 and Germany in August 1916. Dudley, Thomas Lloyd and Davey Murphy.

the triple entente was to fight for the Anglo German navy race countries had to become stronger.  

During World War I, the alliance was expanded to create a multinational coalition, known as the "Allies".   

This included:  

[[Triple Alliance (1882)]]

CATEGORIES: German Empire, History of Austria, History of Hungary, History of Italy, Military alliances, World War I, 1882 establishments in Europe, 1914 disestablishments in Europe

The Triple Alliance was a military alliance (agreement to fight together) between Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy, that lasted from 1880 until the start of World War I in 1914.  The three countries promised to help each other if another country attacked them.  Some Italian people were not happy about the agreement because Austria-Hungary was an old enemy.  In 1914, the Triple Alliance and the Triple Entente (France, Russia and the United Kingdom) started World War I. In 1915, Italy left the alliance and fought against Austria-Hungary and Germany from 1916.

The triple Alliance had many strong points but also negative ones. The positive ones were: the Alliance included two very powerful countries which were industrialized but the negatives were that if war were to be declared they would be encircled by the Triple Entente (France, Russia, and Britain). That would mean that they would have to divide their troops in two which would make the Germans much weaker

Bismark was the man behind the formation of the Triple Alliance. It was started as a dual alliance between Germany and Austria-Hungary because Germany had defeated the Franco-Prussian war of 1870-1871. 

With the outbreak of war amongst all of Europe, the Ottoman Empire joined the Triple Alliance in a pursuit of protection and power. 

[[Campus novel]]

CATEGORIES: Fiction genres

A campus novel, also called the academic novel, is a novel that's story is around or about a campus of a university. The genre is said to have started in the 1950s. The Groves of Academe by Mary McCarthy, written in 1952, is often called the first campus novel, but some have also said that novels such as C.P. Snow's The Masters, of the year before, were campus novels.

[[Crime fiction]]

CATEGORIES: Crime fiction

Crime fiction is the genre of fiction that has to do with crimes, their solving, criminals, and their reasons for doing crime. Sometimes, crime fiction is also in the science fiction or historical fiction genres, but usually they are separate. It has several sub-genres, such as mystery fiction, legal thriller, (see John Grisham) and courtroom drama.

[[Marco Pantani]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2004 deaths, 2000 Summer Olympics, Drug-related deaths, Italian cyclists, Italian Olympians, Sportspeople from Emilia-Romagna, Tour de France winners

Marco Pantani (13 January 1970 – 14 February 2004) was an Italian professional cyclist. He was born in Cesena, Emilia-Romagna. He was very good at climbing mountains in races. In 1998 he won both the Tour de France and the Giro d'Italia. He was a popular cyclist, and his Italian fans gave him the nickname 'Il Pirata' (the pirate) because of his appearance (he often wore a bandana) and because of his aggressive riding style. He failed a test in the 1999 Giro d'Italia. He returned to cycling, but never won a major race again. In June of 2003 he went into hospital with depression. He died of a cocaine overdose in 2004 in Rimini, Emilia-Romagna. His last entry in his diary read:

[[Conscience]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics, Human skills, Political philosophy

Conscience is something that tells people if what they are doing is right or wrong. Having it can make people sad about what they have done. It is the sense of the moral goodness or blameworthiness of one's own conduct, intentions, or character together with a feeling of obligation to do right or be good.

[[Clare]]

Clare can mean:

[[Clare, Suffolk]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Suffolk, Civil parishes in Suffolk

Clare is a small town on the north bank of the River Stour in Suffolk, England. Clare is an amazing town with it containing ruins of an old railway station.It has an amazing market in the town center every week.

[[Bernard Hinault]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, French cyclists, People from Brittany, Tour de France winners, Vuelta a España winners

Bernard Hinault (born 14 November 1954) in Yffiniac is a French cyclist who won the Tour de France five times. He is also one of only seven cyclists to have won all three Grand Tours, the Tour de France, the Giro d'Italia, and the Vuelta a España. He is one of the two cyclists who has won each Grand Tour more than once. He won the Tour de France in 1978, 1979, 1981, 1982 and 1985. He was first in the Giro d'Italia in 1980, 1982 and 1985. He was first in the Vuelta a España in 1978 and 1983. Hinault had the nickname Le Blaireau (the Badger). Hinault says this was a local custom with cyclists when he was young. Professional cyclists used the nickname because badgers do not let go of their prey (animals they want to eat) easily. People know him as a very independent and strong man.

[[Muzaffarabad]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pakistan, Capital cities in Pakistan, Hill Stations in Pakistan

Muzaffarabad (مزففرآباد) is the capital city of Azad Kashmir. It is in Muzaffarabad District on the banks of the Jhelum and Neelum rivers. It is very hilly. 

The district is bounded by Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in the west, by the Kupwara and Baramulla districts of the Indian Jammu and Kashmir in the east, and the Neelum District of Azad Kashmir in the north. 

[[America's Next Top Model, Cycle 1]]

CATEGORIES: America's Next Top Model

This is the results of ''America's Next Top Model'', Cycle 1.

[[Post-traumatic stress disorder]]

CATEGORIES: Anxiety disorders

Post-traumatic stress disorder (sometimes also written Posttraumatic stress disorder, often shortened to PTSD) is an anxiety disorder.  It can develop when people are severely harmed, or experience something extremely upsetting.

PTSD is different from traumatic stress, which is less intense and shorter, and combat stress reaction, which happens to soldiers in wartime situations and usually goes away. PTSD has been recognized in the past by different names, like shell shock, traumatic war neurosis, or post-traumatic stress syndrome (PTSS).

Throughout history, there have been many accounts of people experiencing symptoms of what is now called PTSD. One such account describes Samuel Pepys, who witnessed the Great Fire of London in 1666. "Six months after the event, he wrote in his diary that he was unable to sleep at night, because a great fear of fire took him; one night he was unable to fall asleep before two in the morning, because of that fear."

[[Hugo de Vries]]

CATEGORIES: 1848 births, 1935 deaths, Cell biology, Dutch scientists, Geneticists, People from Haarlem

Hugo Marie de Vries (Haarlem, 16 February 1848 – Lunteren, 21 May 1935) was a Dutch botanist and one of the first geneticists. He suggested the concept of genes, rediscovered Gregor Mendel's laws of heredity, and introduced the term mutation. He developed a mistaken mutation theory of evolution, mainly due to the peculiarities of his favourite organism, the Evening Primrose (Oenothera lamarckiana).

Carl Correns also – independently – rediscovered Gregor Mendel's work on genetics. Erich von Tschermak's status as a third rediscoverer is now less convincing. 

[[Carl Correns]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 1933 deaths, German botanists, Geneticists

Carl Erich Correns (10 September 1864 – 14 February 1933) was a German botanist and geneticist. His research into heredity led to his rediscovery of Gregor Mendel's earlier work. 

Hugo de Vries also – independently – rediscovered Gregor Mendel's work on genetics. Erich von Tschermak's status as a third rediscoverer is now less convincing.

Correns grew hybrids of peas, and of maize, and reached the same interpretation as Mendel, in 1899. 

The occurrence of cases in which the heterozygote is intermediate (the absence of dominance) was added in a footnote to his 1900 paper. That dominance was not always present had been seen and understood by Mendel, according to his letters to Nägeli. By a quirk of history Correns was a student of Nägeli, a renowned botanist with whom Mendel corresponded about his work with peas. Nägeli failed to understand how significant Mendel's work was.

In 1913 Correns became the first director of the newly founded Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Biology in Berlin-Dahlem.

[[Erich von Tschermak]]

CATEGORIES: 1871 births, 1962 deaths, Austrian biologists, Botanists

Erich von Tschermak-Seysenegg (15 November 1871 – October 11 1962) was an Austrian botanist.

Von Tschermak is one of three men – the others were Hugo de Vries and Carl Correns – who were credited with independently rediscovering Gregor Mendel's work on genetics. Von Tschermak published his findings in June 1900.

By a quirk of history, Correns had been a student of Karl Wilhelm von Nägeli. Nageli was a renowned botanist with whom Mendel corresponded about his work with peas, but who failed to understand how significant Mendel's work was. Von Tschermak was a grandson of a man who taught Mendel botany during his student days in Vienna.

[[Woodward's wallaroo]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods, Marsupials of Australia

Woodward's wallaroo (Macropus bernardus), also called the black wallaroo and Bernard's wallaroo, is the smallest of the wallaroos. The male is black or dark brown and the female is a grey colour. It is a shy nocturnal grazer and does not live in big groups. It uses the rocky cliffs where it lives to shelter and hide from danger.

It is only found in a small, mountainous area in Arnhem Land, Northern Territory, between South Alligator River and Nabarlek. It classified as near threatened, because it is only found in this small area. The name wallaroo means a "rock kangaroo."

[[Alex Rodriguez]]

CATEGORIES: American baseball players, Sportspeople from New York City, Seattle Mariners players, Texas Rangers players, New York Yankees players, 1975 births, Living people

Alexander Emmanuel Rodriguez (born July 27, 1975 in New York City, New York). In the past, he played as shortstop for the Seattle Mariners and Texas Rangers. 

He is currently first in runs scored and total bases; second in extra base hits and RBI, and 4th in hits among all players in baseball history since their 31st birthday. Also, Rodriguez has more HR, RBI, runs scored and more base hits than all-time leaders Hank Aaron (RBI), Barry Bonds (HR), Rickey Henderson (runs scored), and Pete Rose (hits) did before their 31st birthdays. He is the youngest player ever to hit 500 home runs, breaking the record Jimmie Foxx set in 1939.

He has been said to be one of the best all-around players currently in baseball. 

In 2009, he admitted to using steroids from 2001-2003, during his time with the Texas Rangers, in order to become better at baseball.

His playing career ended in August of 2016. 

[[Alex]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Alex shortened version of the male name Alexander or the female version Alexandria.  Both names mean "protector of men" or "defender of men".

[[Tomatina]]

CATEGORIES: Tomatoes, Valencia (autonomous community), Festivals in Europe, August events, Spanish culture

La Tomatina is a festival held on the last Wednesday of August each year in the town of Buñol in the Valencia region of Spain. Many people come from all over the world to throw one hundred tons of over-ripe tomatoes in the streets.

[[Wallaroo]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods, Marsupials of Australia

A wallaroo is an Australian macropod with its size between the big kangaroos and the small wallabies. The name "wallaroo" is a mix of wallaby and kangaroo. Most wallaroos are smaller than a kangaroo, and live in open, rocky country. Wallaroo means "rock kangaroo". There are three types of wallaroo. They all stand the same way: wrists raised, elbows close into the body, and shoulders back, and all have a large, black nose.

[[Zoe]]

Zoe could mean:

ZOE may stand for:

[[Zoe (name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Zoë (and other such names) is a female name which came from ancient Greece and means "life" in Greek. 

Some uses of the name are:

[[Rick Warren]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, American Baptists, American Evangelicals, Christian ministers, Christian religious leaders, Christian writers, People from San Jose, California, Writers from California

Richard Duane "Rick" Warren (born January 28, 1954) is both founder and pastor of the evangelical Baptist Saddleback Church in Southern California. It is the largest church in California. He is also the best-selling author of many Christian books, such as The Purpose Driven Life. He is also an influential evangelical leader.

Warren was born in San Jose, California.

[[Antilopine kangaroo]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods, Marsupials of Australia

The antilopine kangaroo (Macropus antilopinus), also called the antilopine wallaroo or the antilopine wallaby, is a large macropod that lives only in the tropical areas of northern Australia. They live in Cape York Peninsula in north Queensland, the "Top End" of the Northern Territory, and the Kimberley region of Western Australia. They live in groups feeding on the open grass lands. Antilopine kangaroos are often in groups of all males, or all females.

The male is a red colour and females are grey. The males can get as big as 70 kg, but the females are usually around 30 kg. It is slightly smaller than the red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) and the eastern grey kangaroo (Macropus giganteus). Babies are born in the summer (February-March), and leave the mother's pouch in Novemember, at the start of the wet season

Climate change could mean that this kangaroo could become extinct in the future.

[[Synchronization]]

CATEGORIES: Time

Synchronization is the co-ordination of a set of events into a system that works according to time. For example, a conductor of an orchestra serves to keep the orchestra in time, or synchronized. Systems that operate with all their parts in synchrony are said to be synchronous or in sync.

In synchronization, time and order are important. It is used in many everyday systems, including those in transport, computer science, music, multimedia and telecommunication.

Today, synchronization can be done across the world due to digital signals and GPS-enabled time-keeping systems.

[[Peptide]]

CATEGORIES: Molecular biology, Polymers

Peptides are organic chemical molecules. They are polymers made from linking amino acids together in a certain order. The link between one amino acid residue and the next is known as an amide bond or a peptide bond.

Linking peptides together gives proteins, which are also known as Polypeptides.

[[Cubic foot]]

CATEGORIES: Units of area

A cubic foot is a measure of volume. It is the amount of liquid that can be fit into a box 1 foot deep, one foot wide, and one foot in length. A cubic foot can be written ft3. It is used in the United States, and partially in Canada, and the United Kingdom.

[[Webmin]]

CATEGORIES: Unix, Web server software

Webmin is a web-based system configuration tool for OpenSolaris, Linux and other Unix-like systems. It can configure many operating system internals, such as users, disk quotas, services, configuration files, as well as modify and control many opensource applications, such as the Apache HTTP Server, PHP and MySQL.

Webmin is largely based on Perl, running as its own process and web server. It defaults to TCP port 10000 for communicating, and can be configured to use SSL if OpenSSL is installed with extra required Perl Modules.

[[Family tree]]

CATEGORIES: Genealogy

A family tree is a chart showing family relationships in a  tree structure form. The more detailed family trees used in medicine, genealogy, and social work are known as genograms.

As normally showed, a family tree "grows" down from the top, from the oldest generations at the top to the newer generations at the bottom. A tree showing the descendants of an individual (illustration right) will more closely look like a tree in shape; one showing the ancestors of an individual (illustration below in "The Family Tree of Sigmund") will be wider at the top than the bottom. When looking at the closer to the bottom of the tree, it will show more recent generations, and when looking farther up, there will be older generations.

the oldest family members go on the right maybe the  left.

[[Survival of the fittest]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology, Social sciences, Metaphors referring to nature

Survival of the fittest is a famous phrase of Herbert Spencer which describes the idea that, in nature, there is competition to survive and reproduce. It is a metaphor, as are the phrases struggle for existence, and natural selection, both of which were used by Charles Darwin. Scientists often use such metaphors as shorthand for key ideas. These metaphors stick in the mind, but they need to be properly understood, or they may be used wrongly.

[[Social responses to the idea of evolution]]

CATEGORIES: Evolution

Evolution was an idea debated before Charles Darwin published On the Origin of Species. In very broad terms, this idea says that species change over time. Even today, some people still talk about the concept of evolution and what it means to them, to their philosophy and  their religion. Sometimes these people also talk about the social implications of evolution. This debate is mostly about the meaning of evolution to human life, or about human nature, not about how evolution works.

[[Palembang]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indonesia

Palembang is a city of 1,286,000 people in the south of the Indonesian island of Sumatra. It is the capital of the province of South Sumatra. 

[[Social darwinism]]

CATEGORIES: Evolutionary biology

Social darwinism is a term used for different movements. Charles Darwin was one of the main proponents of evolution. Evolution is a concept from biology that tries to explain how different life-forms change over time. It basically says that because most children are not exactly like their parents, there is change. Some of the children will have different features (or traits). These features will mean that some children are better adapted to the place where they live. They will therefore be better able to have offspring. Some of the offspring might also have the trait of their parents.

Social darwinism theories try to use these ideas from biology for human society. They talk about a Struggle for survival of human societies. During the era of Nazi ideologies, the idea of Survival of the fittest combined with racism. They claimed the Aryan race was better than all the other races and therefore needed more space to live. This space was to be provided in the east (where mostly Slavs lived). 

Today, this is seen as badly named. Most of the ideas for the theories are from Lamarckism and not from the theory of evolution, proposed by Charles Darwin.

Although Darwin's idea was revered in most of the western societies, many Russian intellectuals did not accept his ideas. They feared that accepting Darwin's ideas would harm their morality. One of Darwin's biggest critic was Leo Tolstoy, who felt strongly against what he thought was Darwin's idea. In a letter from his death bed, he warned his children not to take Darwin's struggle for existence as a moral guide. Darwin never suggested his ideas were a basis for human life, just a description of what had happened in evolution.

[[Beccles]]

CATEGORIES: Market towns in England, Towns in Suffolk

Beccles is a small market town in Suffolk, England, around the area of The Broads. The town had a population of about 9, 850 people around 2005. Beccles has a suburb called Worlingham which has a combined population of about 13,580.  Beccles is twinned with Petit-Couronne in France.

[[Lamarckism]]

CATEGORIES: Evolution

Lamarckism (also called Lamarckian evolution) is a hypothesis regarding evolution. Evolution tries to explain how species change over time. Today, the only widely accepted theory of evolution is that developed from the ideas of Charles Darwin.

Lamarckism was developed by Jean-Baptiste de Lamarck. He based his ideas, to some extent, on those of Erasmus Darwin, the grandfather of Charles Darwin. Lamarckism says that individuals do not only pass on the things they received from their parents, but also some things they experienced during their lifetime. As an example, he cited giraffes. Giraffes, which have long necks, must have evolved from ancestors with much shorter necks. His idea was that adults needed to stretch their neck to reach leaves from high branches. Therefore, he thought, the children inherited longer necks. This idea is called the inheritance of acquired characteristics.

Although Darwin did not entirely break with these ideas, his characteristic idea of natural selection relates to the individuals's relative survival and success in reproduction. Better adapted forms leave, on average, more offspring. This changes the proportion of alleles in the population. 

Gregor Mendel discovered some basic rules of heredity. These rules of Mendelian inheritance contradict Lamarck's hypotheses entirely, but are consistent with natural selection. This explains why Lamarck's ideas are no longer regarded as a sound explanation of evolution. Where Lamarck and Darwin do agree is that evolution did take place.

[[Darwinism]]

CATEGORIES: Evolution, Charles Darwin

Darwinism is a term used to talk about ideas connected to those Charles Darwin had about evolution. The meaning of 'Darwinism' has changed over time, and depends on who uses the term.

[[Istria]]

CATEGORIES: History of Europe, Geography of Croatia, Geography of Slovenia, Geography of Italy, Italian-speaking countries

Istria (Croatian, Slovene: Istra, Italian: Istria), formerly Histria (Latin), is the biggest peninsula in the Adriatic Sea.

[[Prenatal diagnosis]]

CATEGORIES: Medicine

Prenatal testing or Prenatal diagnosis are tests done on pregnant women. They are used to test fetuses for birth defects and some genetic disorders. 

Prenatal tests can be non-invasive or invasive.  Non-invasive tests include things like utrasounds. In invasive tests, a needle is inserted - for example, to get a sample of fluid from the placenta). 

Prenatal tests can check for many conditions, like:

In some cases, the tests are administered to determine if the parents want to abort the fetus.

In some cases, fetal screening has been done to identify things that are not birth defects. For example, in some parts of the world, if an ultrasound shows that a fetus is female, it is sometimes aborted.December 2015  The rise of designer babies raises a number of ethical and legal issues.

[[Compulsory sterilization]]

CATEGORIES: Contraception, Human rights

Compulsory sterilization is a term used for laws that force certain groups of people to be sterilized so that they can no longer make babies. International Criminal Court considers compulsory sterilization for a "crime against humanity". Transgender persons are often obliged to undergo sterilization for legal rocognition of legal status depite the Principle 3 of the Yogyakarta Principles. 

Such laws were mainly introduced because of Eugenic views of the start of the 20th century. Today, most compulsory sterilizations are done to mentally ill people who are not able to handle a pregnancy on their own. In China, compulsory sterilization is part of family planning.

[[List of Italian place names in Dalmatia]]

CATEGORIES: Dalmatia, Europe-related lists

This is a list of Italian language place names on the Dalmatian coast, including the islands up to Rijeka/Fiume.

[[Malthusianism]]

CATEGORIES: Economic history

Malthusianism is a set of ideas developed by Reverend Thomas Robert Malthus. Malthus was an economist who lived during the industrial revolution.

In 1798, Mathus published a book, called An Essay on the Principle of Population. In it, he describes the Malthusian growth model. He wrote that the growth of the population is exponential. The growth of the food supply however is only arithmetical. This means if there are no limits to the growth of the population, that it will not be possible to produce food for all of them. This is known as Malthusian catastrophe. Malthus wrote during the time of the Manchester School of thought.

The Tory party had paternalistic ideas such as charity for the poor. Malthus said this would not work, and it would only lead to increased numbers of the poor. The theory was developed into Whig economic ideas such as The Poor Law Amendment Act of 1834. Its  opponents  described the act as "a Malthusian bill designed to force the poor to emigrate, to work for lower wages, to live on a coarser sort of food". The act brought the construction of workhouses despite riots and arson.

By that time the ideas were widespread in progressive social circles. One supporter was the novelist Harriet Martineau whose circle of acquaintances included Charles Darwin. The ideas of Malthus were a significant influence on the inception of Darwin's theory.

According to Dr. Dan Ritschel of the Center for History Education at the University of Maryland, The great Malthusian dread was that "indiscriminate charity" would lead to exponential growth in the population in poverty, increased charges to the public purse to support this growing army of the dependent, and, eventually, the catastrophe of national bankruptcy. Though Malthusianism has since come to be identified with the issue of general over-population, the original Malthusian concern was more specifically with the fear of over-population by the dependent poor!http://www.umbc.edu/history/CHE/InstPg/RitDop/Discovery-of-poverty-Malthusianism.htm

One of the earliest critics of Malthusian theory was Karl Marx who referred (in "Capital", see Marx's footnote on Malthus from Capital - a reference below) to it as "nothing more than a schoolboyish, superficial plagiary of De Foe, Sir James Steuart, Townsend, Franklin, Wallace" and others, postulating that progress in science and technology would allow for indefinite exponential population growth.

Many people today still believe that Mathus was right about human population growth getting out of hand.

[[Greg LeMond]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American cyclists, Sportspeople from Los Angeles, California, Tour de France winners

Gregory James "Greg" LeMond (born June 26, 1961 in Lakewood, California) is an American  road racing cyclist who raced as a professional from 1981 to 1994.

He became the first American to win the Tour de France in 1986.  In 1987 he was injured in a shooting accident, and could not race again until 1989, when he won the Tour de France again.  He beat the French cyclist Laurent Fignon in an individual time trial using aero bars, which made him more aerodynamic (able to move through air easily). He won the Tour de France again in 1990. He now runs a bicycle company, and works to help people who are victims of sexual abuse. He has been diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.

[[Francis Galton]]

CATEGORIES: 1822 births, 1911 deaths, English biologists, English geneticists, British geographers, Meteorologists, People from Birmingham

Sir Francis Galton FRS (Birmingham, 16 February 1822 – Surrey, 17 January 1911), half-cousin of Charles Darwin, was an English  scientist. His main field of work was human biology and inheritance of mental characteristics.

Galton was a polymath: an anthropologist, a eugenicist, a tropical explorer, geographer, inventor, meteorologist, proto-geneticist, psychometrician, and statistician. He was knighted in 1909.

Galton produced over 340 papers and books in his lifetime. He created the statistical concepts of normal distribution, correlation and regression toward the mean. He was the first to apply statistical methods to the study of human differences and inheritance of intelligence. 

He was the first person to do twin studies. His method was to trace twins through their life-history, making many kinds of measurement. Unfortunately, though he knew about monozygotic (identical twins) and dizygotic twins, he did not appreciate the real genetic difference. Twin studies of the modern kind did not appear until the 1920s.

He also introduced the use of questionnaires and surveys to collect data on human communities. He needed such data for genealogical and biographical works and for his anthropometric studies. He was a pioneer in eugenics, coining the very term itself and the phrase "nature versus nurture". As an investigator of the human mind, he founded psychometrics (the science of measuring mental faculties) and differential psychology. 

Galton created a method for classifying fingerprints that proved useful in forensic science. As the initiator of scientific meteorology, he devised the first weather map, proposed a theory of anticyclones, and was the first to establish a complete record of short-term climatic phenomena on a European scale. He also invented the Galton Whistle for testing differential hearing ability.

[[Herbert Spencer]]

CATEGORIES: 1820 births, 1903 deaths, 19th century philosophers, British feminists, English philosophers, Libertarians

Herbert Spencer (27 April 1820 – 8 December 1903) was an English philosopher, and a prominent liberal political and social theorist of the Victorian era.

Spencer developed an all-embracing conception of evolution. He saw evolution as the progressive development of the physical world, biological organisms, the human mind, and human culture and societies. 

Spencer never married; he remained a bachelor. He contributed to a wide range of subjects, including ethics, religion, politics, philosophy, biology, sociology, and psychology.

Like Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace, he read Malthus' Essay on the principle of population, and was deeply impressed by its argument. Malthus said that sooner or later population growth gets checked by famine and disease, and there are then many deaths. So, he was prepared for Darwin's idea of natural selection, which he preferred to call "survival of the fittest". He did this in  Principles of Biology (1864), after reading Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species.

Spencer's term does strongly suggest natural selection, yet as he extended evolution into realms of sociology and ethics, Spencer made use of Lamarckism rather than natural selection, so it seems he was not a Darwinian after all. Others took up his social ideas, and drew the conclusion that it was useless to try and help the poor, and that competition without limits was the way society should go. Darwin himself did not accept these ideas, but they were quite widespread in the United States at the end of the nineteenth century.

[[National sport]]

CATEGORIES: Sports, National symbols

A national sport is a sport or game that was invented and firstly played by citizens of the same country or nation. It also means the game or sport has a long history of popularity in the country or nation.

Each country has its own national sport.

[[Coevolution]]

CATEGORIES: Coevolution

Coevolution is where the existence of one species is tightly bound up with the life of one or more other species. Species whose lives connect, evolve together. What happens is that survival rates in each species changes as a result of changes in the other species.

Examples of coevolution are:

Coevolution is extremely common, and may involve more than two species. Mimicry rings, with dozens of species, are known.

New or 'improved' adaptations which occur in one species are often followed by the appearance and spread of related features in the other species.

[[Rongorongo]]

CATEGORIES: Unreadable writing systems, Easter Island

Rongorongo is a system of writing native to Easter Island. It cannot be read. There are two dozen examples of rongorongo script, mostly carved on tablets made from wood of the portia tree Thespesia populnea, known as makoi in Rapanui (Easter Island) language. The longest inscription in existence is the Santiago Staff, a wooden sceptre 126 centimetres long and 6.5 centimetres wide, bearing 2300 glyphs (Gr. γλυφη "carving"). The staff, which once belonged to an Easter Island king, was acquired by the Chilean Navy in 1870 and is now in Santiago's Museum of Natural History.

In 2019, only 25 texts were seen as authentic. These texts and artefacts are distributed over diffent museum in the world, none remains on the Easter Island. The total text corpus is about 14,000 "letters", made of about 600 different glyphs. The writing was probably used for religious puroposes; only very few people used it. The age of the writing is unknown. In the 19th century, Europeans received the first objects with writing on them. Some glyphs show plants that do not exist, or have never existed on Easter Island. One example is the Breadfruit, which has never existed on Eastter Island. The knowledge of the plant must have been passed on from the first settlers, from generation to generation.  

When the Euopeans came ot the island, they paid high prices for tablets containing Rongoro. Today, there are a number of artefacts containing Rongorongo whch are clear forgeries. There are some, where the claim is disputed.

[[Candle Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals in Asia, Thai culture

The Candle Festival (known in Thai as Haetian) is held in Ubon Ratchathani, Isan, Thailand.

At the start of rainy season, it is traditional for the devout to donate to monks items of personal use, such as candles. This part of the festival became the core of the Ubon Ratchathani version of the event. It is now a major event both for residents and for tourists: giant candles are paraded through the town, each representing a local temple, district or other institution. The more elaborate versions are accompanied by scenes of Hindu and Buddhist mythology sculpted in wood or plaster and coated with wax.

[[Portia tree]]

CATEGORIES: Malvaceae, Trees

The portia tree (Thespesia populnea) Family Malvaceae, is a small tree or shrub 5-10 (-20) m high that is pantropical in littoral environments, although probably native only to the Old World. In Hawai‘i and elsewhere in the Pacific it is possibly indigenous, although may have been spread by early Polynesians for its useful wood and fiber.

Common names vary according to the country and include "Indian tulip tree", "Pacific rosewood", "seaside mahoe" (in Florida), surina (the "elegant tree"), suriya (Sinhala), bebaru or baru baru (Malay), milo or miro (in many Polynesian languages), mako‘i (Rapanui), gangaraavi (Telugu), poovarasu (Tamil), and plaksa (Sanskrit).

Traditionally it was planted in sacred groves and used for religious sculpture throughout eastern Polynesia. It was used for the rongorongo tablets of Easter Island.

[[PAL region]]

CATEGORIES: Television technology

The PAL region is a PAL region which covers most of Asia, Africa, Australia, New Zealand, and Europe.

[[Tautology (rhetoric)]]

CATEGORIES: Figures of speech

In rhetoric, a tautology is the repetition of a statement, for example, "With malice toward none, with charity for all". 

Unlike a tautology in logic, it is not automatically true. 

[[Tautology (logic)]]

CATEGORIES: Logic

A statement in logic is considered contingent if it is neither a tautology nor false.

Some examples of tautologies in natural language include: 

These tautologies are sentences of the following form:

Indeed, if A is not true, then A is not true, so the tautology is still true.

[[Longhorn beetle]]

CATEGORIES: Polyphaga

The longhorn beetles or long-horned beetles (Cerambycidae) are a family of beetles that usually have very long antennae.  They can be longer than the beetles' body.

[[Macroevolution]]

CATEGORIES: Evolution

Macroevolution refers to large-scale evolution. For some, this means the origin of species. For others, it means the large-scale changes seen in the fossil record. 

It is a term of convenience: for most biologists it does not suggest any change in the process of evolution. For a few palaeontologists, some things they see in the fossil record cannot be explained just by the gradualist evolutionary synthesis. They are in the minority. There are some interesting discussions by other palaeontologists.

Some biologists use the term for evolution in already separated gene pools. For them, macroevolutionary studies focus on change that occurs at or above the level of species. Again, this is a minority position. Most biologist would not call evolution at the species level "macroevolution".

Microevolution, on the other hand, refers to smaller evolutionary changes within species or populations. During microevolution changes in allele frequencies definitely do occur. Some biologists, Richard Dawkins in particular, have suggested that the gene is the object of selection. This was always challenged by Ernst Mayr "The individual is the entity which survives or not, which reproduces or not, and which reproduces successfully or not". Changes in gene frequency in populations is a by-product of what happens to individuals.

[[Gene pool]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics

A gene pool is the set of all possible variations (alleles) of all genes of a population. It is a concept in population genetics.

For example, plants have genes that say what colour their flowers will be. The gene pool of peas has an allele for red flowers and another one for white flowers.

[[Transcription (genetics)]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Molecular biology, Genetics

Transcription is when RNA is made from DNA. The DNA sequence is copied by a special enzyme called RNA polymerase to make a matching RNA strand. 

The matching RNA strand is a 'pre-messenger RNA'. Next, the non-coding introns are stripped out by a spliceosome. The remaining exons are put together to make a messenger RNA. 

The product is called messenger RNA (mRNA) because it carries a genetic message from the DNA to the protein-making machinery of the cell. Transcription is the first step that leads to the expression of the genes.

The stretch of DNA that is transcribed into an RNA molecule is called a transcription unit. This contains:

As in DNA replication, only one of the two DNA strands is transcribed. This strand is called the template strand, because it provides the template for ordering the sequence of nucleotides in an RNA transcript. The other strand is called the coding strand. Its sequence is the same as the newly created RNA transcript (except for thymine being substituted for uracil). 

The DNA template strand is read 3' → 5' direction by RNA polymerase and the new RNA strand is synthesized in the 5'→ 3' direction. RNA polymerase binds to the 3' end of a gene (promoter) on the DNA template strand and travels toward the 5' end.

Roger D. Kornberg won the 2006 Nobel Prize in Chemistry "for his studies of the molecular basis of eukaryotic transcription".

[[William Hovell]]

CATEGORIES: 1786 births, 1875 deaths, English explorers, Exploration of Australia, People from Norfolk

William Hilton Hovell (April 26 1786 — November 9 1875) was an English explorer of Australia. Together with Hamilton Hume he explored much of Victoria.

[[Star Wars prequel trilogy]]

CATEGORIES: Mass media franchises introduced in 1999, Star Wars Skywalker Saga movies

The Star Wars prequel trilogy is a series of movies released between May 1999 and May 2005. All three movies were written and directed by George Lucas.

[[Abbasid Caliphate]]

CATEGORIES: Caliphates, Former countries in the Middle East, Former monarchies, Former monarchies of Africa, Former monarchies of Asia, Former monarchies of Europe, 750 establishments, 1517 disestablishments, 8th-century establishments in Asia, 8th-century establishments in Africa, 16th century disestablishments in Asia, Disestablishments in Africa, Medieval Azerbaijan

The Abbasid Caliphate was the third of the four greatest Muslim caliphates of the Arab Empire. It overthrew the Umayyad caliphs from all but Al-Andalus. It was built by the descendant of Muhammad's youngest uncle, Abbas ibn Abd al-Muttalib. It was created in Harran in 750 of the Christian era and shifted its capital in AD 762 from Harran to Baghdad. It flourished for two centuries. Abbasid rule was ended in 1258, when Hulagu Khan, the Mongol conqueror, sacked Baghdad. But they continued to claim authority in religious matters from their base in Egypt.

During the period of the Abassid dynasty, Abassid claims to the caliphate did not go unchallenged. The Shiˤa Ubayd Allah al-Mahdi Billah of the Fatimid dynasty, which claimed descendency of Muhammad through his daughter, claimed the title of Caliph in 909 and created a separate line of caliphs in North Africa. Initially it covered only Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Libya, but then the Fatimid caliphs extended their rule for the next 150 years, taking Egypt and Palestine and even ancient Pakistan, before the Abbassid dynasty was able to turn the tide, limiting Fatimid rule to Egypt. The Fatimid dynasty finally ended in 1171. The Umayyad dynasty, which had survived and come to rule over the Muslim provinces of Spain, reclaimed the title of Caliph in 929, lasting until it was overthrown in 1031.

The tenth caliph, namely Al-Mutawakkil, is the person who oversaw the introduction of hadiths.

[[Seattle Mariners]]

CATEGORIES: Seattle Mariners, 1977 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Washington (state)

The Seattle Mariners are an American Major League Baseball team based in Seattle, Washington. The Mariners are part of the Western Division of Major League Baseball's American League. Since July 1999, their home stadium has been T-Mobile Park (originally Safeco Field). Until they moved in June 1999, the club's home park was the Kingdome.

Seattle had minor league baseball teams from the early 1900s to the late 1960s, with nicknames such as the "Indians" and the "Rainiers".

The first major league baseball franchise in Seattle was the Seattle Pilots, formed in 1969. The Pilots moved to Milwaukee the next year and became the Milwaukee Brewers. As a result, the city of Seattle, King County, and the state of Washington sued the American League for $32 million dollars in damages. In exchange for dropping the law suit, the American League gave Seattle a Major League Baseball team in 1977.

Seattle is a large and important seaport, a fact which led to the major league teams being called the "Pilots" and the "Mariners".

The Mariner's first winning season was in 1991, and the first time they made the playoffs was in 1995. The Mariners are owned by Nintendo of America, and the general manager of the team is Jack Zduriencik.

[[Guanajuato (state)]]

CATEGORIES: Guanajuato (state), States of Mexico

Guanajuato is a state in central Mexico. About 4,890,000 people live there. Its capital is also called Guanajuato. The largest city is León.

[[Yucatán (state)]]

CATEGORIES: Yucatán (state), States of Mexico

Yucatán is a state in the east of Mexico. About 1,820,000 people live in Yucatán. Its capital is called Mérida. 

The state is on the Yucatán Peninsula. It has the state of Campeche to the southwest, and Quintana Roo to the southeast. The Gulf of Mexico is off its north coast.

The state was a very important region for the Mayan civilization. There are still some villages there with Mayan-descent people who speak the old language. There are also archaeological sites where Mayan remains are investigated.

[[Caravaggio]]

CATEGORIES: 1571 births, 1610 deaths, 16th century Italian painters

Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio (28 September 1571 – 18 July 1610) was an Italian artist. He worked in Rome, Naples, Malta and Sicily between 1593 and 1610. He was a painter who did a type of art called Baroque style. He was the first person to be really good at painting this way.

Even while he was alive, many people talked about Caravaggio. Some people liked to see what he did, and how he lived, and thought he was a good person. Other people thought he was very strange. Some people thought he was bad. He did not want to fit in, sometimes. He started being a famous painter in Rome in 1600. Many people gave him money to paint pictures for them, but he used all his money and sometimes got into trouble.  In 1604 someone wrote a note about him, and said that he was rude and a bad person. This note tells us how he lived, in 1601:after a fortnight's work he will swagger about for a month or two with a sword at his side and a servant following him, from one ball-court to the next, ever ready to engage in a fight or an argument, so that it is most awkward to get along with him In 1606 he killed a young man in a fight and ran away from Rome.  He ran away because Rome said it would give money to people who caught Caravaggio.  In Malta in 1608 he got into a fight again. He got into another fight in Naples in 1609, but this fight could have been enemies (people who hated him) trying to kill him. In 1610, after making paintings for more than ten years, he died.

Huge new churches and palazzi were being built in Rome the last years of the 1500s and the first years of the 1600s.  These big churches needed paintings to hang on the walls. The Counter-Reformation Catholic Church wanted to find painters who would paint beautiful art about God.  They wanted people to like the art so much that they would think Protestantism was ugly and boring, and wouldn't want to start being part of a Protestant church. So the Catholic Church needed a new type of art, because Mannerism had been the most famous type of art for 100 years, and now it was boring.  Caravaggio's paintings were new, and different from Mannerism.  He painted in a way called naturalism, which means that he painted things how they actually looked. He painted pictures of people so that the people looked real, and he made his pictures look exciting by painting a lot of very dark shadows and very bright lights (which is called chiaroscuro).  

While he was alive he was very famous, and many artists wanted to paint like he did.  But after he died, most people forgot about him, and didn't care about his paintings.  Hundreds of years later, in the 1900s, people looked at his art again, and saw that he had been very important.  They saw that many other famous artists had tried to paint like he did.  Because so many artists had seen his paintings, and liked how he painted, and tried to paint like he did, he made many artists paint in the Baroque style, too. The Baroque style was very famous for hundreds of years. 

Andre Berne-Joffroy, Paul Valéry’s secretary, said that: "What begins in the work of Caravaggio is, quite simply, modern painting."

[[Gothic Revival architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural styles

Gothic Revival architecture is architecture that has been made to look as if it is from medieval times, but is really much later. This architectural style began in the late 1740s in England. Its momentum grew in the early 19th century. Serious and learned admirers of neo-Gothic styles sought to revive medieval Gothic architecture.

The Gothic style of architecture was built in Europe between about 1140 and about 1550. Beginning in late 18th century Europe, through the 19th century and into the early 20th century in Europe and elsewhere there was a fashion to build in the Gothic style. In this period architects and their patrons had various different styles to choose from. There were also revivals of Classical and Renaissance styles. Since medieval Gothic buildings vary so much, some architects often copied selectively from medieval buildings and some adapted the style to the needs of their own period. The "Gothic Revival" style was most commonly used for churches, cathedrals, universities, town halls and sometimes houses. 

Gothic Revival buildings have features that are like real Gothic buildings. They often have: 

[[Lúcio]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Brazilian footballers, People from Brasília

Lucimar da Silva Ferreira, called Lúcio (born 8 May 1978 in Brasília, Brazil) is a Brazilian football player and the captain of the Brazil national team, for that he has played 8 matches and made 4 goals. His team is Internazionale Milano.

[[Fluxbuntu]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Live CD

Fluxbuntu was a Linux distribution made for computers that have less powerful hardware. It is based or made from Ubuntu and uses Fluxbox for its Window Manager.

[[Saint Dominic]]

CATEGORIES: Christian saints, 1170 births, 1221 deaths

Saint Dominic (Santo Domingo; 1170 – 6 August 1221) was the founder of a Catholic order, the Friars Preachers, often called the Dominicans or the Order of Preachers (OP). Dominic is the patron saint of astronomers and the Dominican Republic. He was born in Caleruega, half-way between Osma and Aranda in Old Castile, Spain. He is sometimes called Dominic of Osma or Dominic de Guzmán. 

In paintings, his sign is a star or a dog holding a burning torch in its mouth.

[[John Wayne Gacy]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 1994 deaths, American sex offenders, Bisexual people, Businesspeople from Chicago, Criminals from Chicago, Executed American serial killers, LGBT people from Chicago, People executed by lethal injection, People with antisocial personality disorder, Filmed executions, American Roman Catholics

John Wayne Gacy, Jr. (March 17, 1942 – May 10, 1994; pronounced Gay-see), also known as The Killer Clown and Pogo the Clown, was an American serial killer and rapist. He is confirmed to have killed 33 young men and teenage boys. He killed them in a brutal way and buried their bodies in or near his Chicago home. Gacy did not use a gun for any of his crimes.

Gacy became known as "Pogo the Clown" and the "Killer Clown" because he would dress as a clown for fundraising events and parades. In March 1980, Gacy was convicted of 33 murders, as well as sex crimes, committed between 1972 and 1978, and given the death penalty. He was executed by lethal injection on May 10, 1994. Gacy's execution was filmed; his last words were, "kiss my ass". There were problems with the execution, but it eventually ended in Gacy's death. Immediately prior to his execution, Gacy observed the Last Rites with a Catholic priest; he had converted to the Catholic Church.

[[Bridget Fonda]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors

Bridget Jane Fonda (born January 27, 1964) is a retired American actress. She has been nominated for both an Emmy Award and a Golden Globe Award. Fonda is the daughter of Peter Fonda, the granddaughter of Henry and the niece of Jane Fonda. She is of Dutch, English, French-Canadian, German, Irish, Italian, Norwegian and Scottish descent.

Fonda is known for  her roles in such movies as The Godfather Part III, Single White Female, Singles, Doc Hollywood, Lake Placid and Jackie Brown. She voiced Jenna in the 1995 animated movie Balto.

[[Takashi Tezuka]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Japanese video game designers, People from Osaka, Nintendo people

Takashi Tezuka is a video game maker for Nintendo. He has worked on many popular games for Nintendo, including games in the Mario, The Legend of Zelda, and Animal Crossing series. His first game was the Nintendo Entertainment System video game Devil World.

[[Eiji Aonuma]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Japanese video game designers, People from Nagano Prefecture, Nintendo people

Eiji Aonuma is a Japanese video game developer for Nintendo. He is most well known for his work in The Legend of Zelda series, most recently with The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds on the Nintendo 3DS.

[[Aikido]]

CATEGORIES: Martial arts, Sport in Japan

Aikido /eye-Kee-doh/ is a Japanese martial art.  It was developed by Morihei Ueshiba.

Aikido is based on Ueshiba's philosophy, martial arts training and religious beliefs. The word "aikido" is often translated as "the way of unifying (with) life energy" or as "the way of harmonious spirit." Ueshiba wanted to create an art where people could defend themselves without harming their attacker by using the attackers "ki" against them. He wanted each practitioner of aikido to develop both physically and spiritually.

Aikido is performed by blending with the way the attacker moves, using the force of the attack rather than coming against it. This is achieved by using the attackers "ki" against them. This takes very little physical strength, as the aikidōka (person who does aikido) uses the force of the attacker's own momentum using stepping and turning movements. The techniques are completed with many different throws or joint locks which can be combined with different defenses. Aikido is one of many grappling arts.

Aikido is based on the martial art of Daitō-ryū Aiki-jūjutsu, but began to separate from it in the late 1920s, partly due to Ueshiba's involvement with the Ōmoto-kyō religion. Ueshiba's early students' records use the name aiki-jūjutsu. Many of Ueshiba's senior students have different approaches to aikido, depending on when they studied with him. Today aikido is found all over the world in a number of styles, with different groups placing importance on different things. However, they all share techniques learned from Ueshiba and most have concern for the safety of the attacker.

[[Blog]]

CATEGORIES: Internet

A blog, also known as weblog, is a type of website that is like a diary or journal. Blog organizes content in the form of categories and posts. Posts on a blog are presented in reverse chronological order. That means your latest post goes to the top of the page. That way, when you make a new post, it will come first and the first post will go below it. Anyone can create a blog and then write on that blog. Bloggers (a word for people who write on blogs) often write about their opinions and thoughts. A blog containing video material is called a video blog or video log, usually shortened to vlog.

When a person writes on a blog, what they write is in the form of a post, which is a single piece of writing on the blog. Posts often include links to other websites.

Blogs can have one or more writers. If they have more than one writer, they are often called community blogs, team blogs, or group blogs because the thoughts are made by more than one person.

[[Carbon nanotube]]

CATEGORIES: Carbon

A carbon nanotube is an allotrope of carbon that is shaped like a tube of carbon atoms. Carbon nanotubes are very tough and hard to break, but still relatively light. Some are very long. Because of their high strength, carbon nanotubes may one day be used for bulletproof armour and other uses needing hard, lightweight materials. A few carbon nanotubes also let electricity through them. Some may be up to 1,000 times better at conducting electricity than metals like copper and silver. 

[[Witch doctor]]

CATEGORIES: religion, Alternative medicine

A witch doctor often refers to a healer in undeveloped regions who use traditional and sometimes out of date methods rather than modern medicine or science.

The term witch doctor is generally used with negative terms. It is often used to imply that the healer has little or no experience or ability in medicine.

The Oxford English Dictionary says that the first recorded use of this term is in 1718, in a book by Francis Hutchinson.

The witch doctors in Africa are known as sangomas in Southern Africa. The Oxford English Dictionary states that the first use of the term "witch doctor" to refer to African shamans (i.e. medicine men) was in 1836 in a book by Robert Montgomery Martin (1803?-1868).

The role is only partly a practical one. It is also a spiritual one. The so-called witch doctor is often the guardian of the tribe's belief system and rituals. Key ceremonies must be properly held or else the life of the community may fall apart, as has happened in many places. Aggressive action by outsiders to the local belief system may lead to the 'genocide of indigenous peoples'. 

[[Klingon]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek, Fictional races

Klingons (tlhIngan; Pronunciation: /ˈt͡ɬɪŋɑn/) are a warrior race in the fictional Star Trek universe. They were in the show Star Trek: The Original Series (TOS) many times and were in all five spin-off series afterwards, eventually becoming friends of the United Federation of Planets. 

Made by writer Gene Coon, Klingons were introduced in the episode "Errand of Mercy" (1967). They were named for Lieutenant Wilbur Clingan, who served with Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry in the Los Angeles Police Department. 

In the first series, the conflict between the Federation and Klingon was supposed to be referring to the then-current Cold War unfriendliness between the United States and the Soviet Union. Star Trek: The Next Generation continued to have the Klingon as a group similar to the army but they made the Klingon fighter follow rules similar to bushido, military Japanese rules for behavior valuing honor above life.

[[Right-handedness]]

CATEGORIES: Motor skills

Someone who is right-handed will use their right-hand for everyday activities, such as writing, keeping personal hygiene, cooking and more. According to a studies, anywhere from 70% to 90% of the world population is right-handed, while most of the remaining are left-handed. A small percentage of the population can use both hands equally well; a person with this ability is called a ambidextrous.

[[Nurgle]]

CATEGORIES: Video game characters

In the fictional universes of Warhammer 40,000 and Warhammer Fantasy, Nurgle is one of the four major Chaos gods.  Like his brother gods, Nurgle grew from a single survivalist emotion: in his case, the emotion was despair. Nurgle is the Chaos god of disease, decay, despair and destruction.  Even though the nature of his influence, he begins to like his victims, caring for them in a jovial manner close to a loving grandfather; so he is commonly called Grandfather Nurgle or Papa Nurgle. He is also called the Lord of Decay, Master of Plague and Pestilence and Lord of All.  He is shown as a huge, bloated humanoid, with boils and sores, his body completely rotten from disease.  He is usually with an enveloping cloud of buzzing flies.

[[Zaurus]]

CATEGORIES: computers

The Sharp Zaurus is the name of a series of Personal Digital Assistant (PDA) made by Sharp Corporation.

[[Palatine, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois, 1866 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Illinois

Palatine is a village in the state of Illinois. It is north west of Chicago, the biggest city in Illinois. In 2000, the number of people in Palatine was counted and was 65,479. There were 68,557 people in Palatine in 2010.

[[Mankind]]

Mankind may mean:

[[Province of Monza and Brianza]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Lombardy

The Province of Monza and Brianza (in the local idiom: "Pruincia de Munscia e Briansa") is a province of Lombardy, Italy. It was created (with part of the province of Milan) on May 12, 2004, but became effective in 2009. It has an area of 405.49 km² and a population (2010 census) of 850,321.

[[Apulanta]]

CATEGORIES: Finnish musical groups, Rock bands, Heavy metal bands, Punk bands, Musical groups established in 1991, 1991 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Finland

Apulanta is a rock band from Finland. It was started in 1991.

Apulanta's first music album was Attack of the AL People, which was released in 1994.

[[Al-Andalus]]

CATEGORIES: History of Portugal, History of Spain

Al-Andalus (Arabic: الأندلس) was the Arabic name given to those parts of the Iberian Peninsula governed by Muslims, or Moors, at various times in the period between 711 and 1492. As a political domain or domains, it was successively a province of the Umayyad Caliphate, the Caliphate of Córdoba (929-1031), and finally the Caliphate of Córdoba's taifa (successor) kingdoms. For large parts of its history, particularly under the Caliphate of Córdoba, Andalus was famous for learning and the city of Córdoba became one of the leading cultural and economic centers in both the Mediterranean basin and the Islamic world.

This civilization was quite advanced at architecture and urban planning. The Moors were very wealthy because they controlled the gold trade from the Ghana Empire in West Africa. They built many beautiful buildings in all the land they controlled. Many of their large buildings still stand in cities in Andalusia, such as in Seville, Granada, and Cordoba.

Muslim Spain was multicultural and comparatively tolerant; Jews, Christians and Muslims lived side by side.  There was also a saqaliba population (the descendants of European slaves) near the Mediterranean coast. Though these people were at first brought in to be slaves, some of them became generals (as did some Mamluks in another caliphate) and some generals became rulers of their own cities (taifas) for a short time.

In 1236, the Reconquista (gradual Christian reconquest) under the forces of Ferdinand III of Castile progressed as far as the last remaining Islamic stronghold, Granada. Granada was reduced to a vassal state to Castile for the next 256 years, until January 2, 1492, when Boabdil surrendered complete control of Granada to Ferdinand and Isabella.

[[Abbas ibn Abd al-Muttalib]]

CATEGORIES: 566 births, 653 deaths, Muslims

`Abbas ibn `Abd al-Muttalib  (العباس بن عبد المطلب) (c. 566 – c. 653) was a uncle and companion of Muhammad.

[[Aung San]]

CATEGORIES: Burmese people, Assassinated people, 1915 births, 1947 deaths

Aung San (13 February 1915 – 19 July 1947) was a Burmese revolutionary, nationalist, general, and politician. He was the father of Nobel Peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi.

[[Kitakyūshū]]

CATEGORIES: Kitakyūshū, 1963 establishments in Japan

Kitakyūshū is a city designated by government ordinance in Fukuoka Prefecture, Kyūshū, Japan.  It was known as a region before neighboring cities grew together.

It is a very important industrial city.  It has steel factories,  coal mines and car factories.

In Japan, it is an important city in reducing pollution.  It also has an important recycling facility.

Kitakyūshū has a population of almost one million people.

It is on the main Shinkansen line between Fukuoka and Tokyo.

[[I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 comedy movies, 2000s LGBT movies, 2000s sex comedy movies, American LGBT movies, American sex comedy movies, English-language movies, LGBT comedy movies, Movies set in New York City

I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry (a.k.a. Chuck and Larry) is a 2007 American comedy movie. It was directed by Dennis Dugan and stars Adam Sandler and Kevin James. It is about two heterosexual male firefighters in New York City who marry each other.

[[Knocked Up]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 comedy movies, 2007 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s sex comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, American sex comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about couples, Movies about drugs, Movies about sisters, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Pregnancy movies, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by Judd Apatow

Knocked Up is a 2007 American romantic sex comedy movie. It was directed by Judd Apatow, and stars Seth Rogen as Ben Stone and Katherine Heigl as Alison Scott. She becomes pregnant unintentionally due to a one-night stand with him.

[[1988-89 NHL season]]

The 1988–89 NHL season was the 72nd season of the National Hockey League. Twenty-one teams each played 80 games. The Calgary Flames won an all Canadian Stanley Cup final against the Montreal Canadiens four games to two. To date, this is the last time two Canadian teams squared off for the Stanley Cup.

[[Liar Liar]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 comedy movies, 1997 romance movies, 1990s fantasy-comedy movies, 1990s legal movies, Adultery in movies, American fantasy-comedy movies, American legal movies, American romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about divorce, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies about wish fulfillment, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Universal Pictures movies

Liar Liar is a 1997 American fantasy comedy movie set in Los Angeles, California. It was directed by Tom Shadyac. It stars Jim Carrey as a lawyer whose son makes a birthday wish that he cannot tell any more lies.

[[Happy Gilmore]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 comedy movies, 1990s sports movies, American sports comedy movies, English-language movies, Screenplays by Adam Sandler, Universal Pictures movies

Happy Gilmore is a 1996 American sports comedy movie. It was directed by Dennis Dugan, and stars Adam Sandler. The movie got positive reviews.

[[Apollo 13]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program

Apollo 13 was the seventh mission of NASA's Project Apollo and the third crewed lunar-lander mission. The flight was commanded by Jim Lovell.  The other astronauts on board were Jack Swigert and Fred Haise.

The craft was launched successfully toward the Moon, but two days after launch a faulty oxygen tank exploded, and the Service Module became damaged, causing a loss of oxygen and electrical power. There was a very large chance that the astronauts would die before they could return to Earth. They were very short of oxygen. Oxygen is not just used to breathe; on the Apollo spacecraft it was used in a device called a Fuel cell to generate electricity. So they conserved their remaining air by turning off almost all their electrical equipment, for example heaters. It became very cold in the spacecraft.

In order to stay alive the astronauts also had to move into the Apollo Lunar Module and make it work as a sort of "lifeboat".

When they approached the Earth they were not sure that their parachutes, needed to slow the Command Module down, would work. The parachutes were thrown out by small explosive charges that were fired by batteries. The cold could have made the batteries fail, in which case the parachutes would not work and the Command Module would hit the ocean so fast that all aboard would be killed.

[[Apollo 13 (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s adventure movies, 1995 drama movies, American adventure movies, American drama movies, Best Picture Oscar, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Ron Howard, Universal Pictures movies

Apollo 13 is a 1995 drama movie about the failed Apollo 13 mission. It was directed by Ron Howard, and starred Tom Hanks.

[[Simon Pegg]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Actors from Gloucestershire, British atheists, English comedians, English movie actors, English movie directors, English movie producers, English screenwriters, English television actors, English television writers, English voice actors, Writers from Gloucestershire

Simon John Pegg (né Beckingham, born 14 February 1970) is an English actor, comedian, director, producer and screenwriter. His best known roles are Spaced, Shaun of the Dead, Hot Fuzz  and  Paul. He is also known for working with Nick Frost.

[[Béla Lugosi]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1956 deaths, American movie actors, American silent movie actors, American stage actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Hungarian movie actors, Hungarian stage actors

Béla Lugosi (20 October 1882 – 16 August 1956) born in what is now Lugoj, Romania, was a Hungarian-American actor of the theatre and movies. He is best known for playing Count Dracula in the Broadway play and the movie version.  He was a character actor who played many different kinds of roles, but was most often seen in horror movies including White Zombie. He is one of the first actors to enter drug rehabilitation for a drug addiction. In the last years of his career he acted in several low-budget B-movies, some by director Ed Wood. He died in Los Angeles, California of a heart attack when he was 73 years old.

Bela G. Lugosi is his son.

[[Ratatouille (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, 2007 animated movies, 2007 computer-animated movies, Movies about animals, Movies composed by Michael Giacchino, Movies directed by Brad Bird, Movies set in Paris, Movies that won the Best Animated Feature Academy Award, Pixar movies

Ratatouille (ˌrætəˈtuːiː/, /-ˈtwiː; French: /ʁatatuj/) is a 2007 animated movie directed by Brad Bird. It stars Patton Oswalt, Lou Romano, Peter Sohn, Brad Garrett, Janeane Garofalo, Ian Holm, Brian Dennehy and Peter O'Toole. The movie is about a rat who wants to become a dead rat. He befriends a human who works at the restaurant in Paris. It was made by Pixar Animation Studios and it was distributed by Walt Disney Pictures.

[[Hot Fuzz]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 comedy movies, 2000s action movies, 2000s buddy movies, 2000s criminal comedy movies, 2000s parody movies, 2000s serial killer movies, Action comedy movies, British action movies, British buddy movies, British comedy movies, British criminal comedy movies, Buddy comedy movies, Buddy cop movies, English-language movies, French action movies, French comedy movies, Gloucestershire

Hot Fuzz is a 2007 British-French action-comedy movie. It was directed by Edgar Wright, who co-wrote it with Simon Pegg. The movie stars Pegg and Nick Frost. It is set in Gloucestershire.

[[Shaun of the Dead]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 comedy movies, 2004 horror movies, British horror movies, British romantic comedy movies, French comedy movies, French horror movies, Comedy horror movies, Movies set in London, Zombie movies, British comedy movies, Apocalyptic movies

Shaun of the Dead is a 2004 British-French zombie-themed romantic comedy movie. It is set in London. The movie was directed by Edgar Wright, who co-wrote it with Simon Pegg. It stars Pegg and Nick Frost.

[[Palace of Westminster]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in London, Royal residences in the United Kingdom, World Heritage Sites in the United Kingdom, 11th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in England, Government buildings

The Palace of Westminster, also known as the Houses of Parliament or Westminster Palace, in London, is where the two Houses of the Parliament of the United Kingdom meet.

In 1605, Guy Fawkes attempted to blow the Palace up.  He was caught and later executed.  This was called the Gunpowder Plot, and is celebrated on 5 November every year.

The original building was used as a palace and home to the Parliament of England. After a fire in 1834, the building was used as a Parliament building.

Westminster Palace, Westminster Abbey and Saint Margaret's Church make up a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Westminster Palace is an example of Gothic Revival architecture.

[[V for Vendetta (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 drama movies, DC Comics movies, 2000s LGBT movies, British drama movies, British LGBT movies, Movies set in London, Warner Bros. movies, American drama movies, German drama movies, Dystopian movies

V for Vendetta is a 2005 drama movie set in London. The main people who are in it include Hugo Weaving as the character V and Natalie Portman as Evey Hammond.  It was written by the Wachowski brothers and directed by James McTeigue.  It is based on Alan Moore's graphic novel V for Vendetta.  Moore did not like most movies about his work.  He asked that his name not appear on it. The movie is set in a dystopian future United Kingdom of the year 2020, which has become a totalitarian fascist dictatorship.

[[Colin Montgomery]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, British golfers, Sportspeople from Glasgow, Sportspeople from Yorkshire

Colin Montgomery OBE (born 23 June 1963) is a Scottish professional golfer on the PGA Tour. He was born in Glasgow but raised in Yorkshire.

[[North American video game crash of 1983]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 in North America, Video game companies

The North American video game crash of 1983 was a major event in the history of video games where the North American video game industry had crashed. Many makers of home computers and video game consoles went bankrupt. Many business analysts thought that the video game industry would not last, and the crash lasted for several years. However, the Japanese company Nintendo introduced the Nintendo Entertainment System in 1985, which became very popular in 1987 and ended the crash.

There were several reasons for the crash, but the main reason was that companies were making many consoles and hundreds of games, most which were low quality. The video game version of ET: The Extra Terrestrial is often blamed for the crash.

[[Kirby's Dream Land 2]]

CATEGORIES: Kirby, Game Boy games, 1994 video games, Platform games

Kirby's Dream Land 2, known in Japan as Hoshi no Kirby 2 is a platform video game made by HAL Laboratory and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy game console.

[[Kirby's Dream Land]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 video games, Game Boy games, Kirby, Platform games

Kirby's Dream Land, called Hoshi no Kirby in Japan, is a platform video game made by HAL Laboratory, Inc. and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy.

[[Mario Kart Wii]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 video games, Mario Kart games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games, Wii games, Wii-only games

Mario Kart Wii is a kart racing video game made by Nintendo for the Wii game console which was first shown at E3 2007. It is the sixth installment in the Mario Kart series and the second Mario Kart title to use the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. The game was released in every country throughout April 2008, but one year later in South Korea.

Mario Kart Wii features 16 new tracks, plus 16 from the previous games in the series, and is bundled with the Wii Wheel. The game was commercially successful in every region, and sold over a million copies in both Japan and the United States in less than a month. It also received positive reviews from critics.

[[Wii Fit]]

CATEGORIES: Wii-only games, 2007 video games, Nintendo Entertainment Analysis and Development games

Wii Fit is an exercise video game made by Nintendo for the Wii video game console.

Two sequels were released for the game. Wii Fit Plus was released for the Wii in 2009. Wii Fit U was released for the Wii U in 2014.

[[Toyota Highlander]]

CATEGORIES: Toyota

The Toyota Highlander is a medium-sized crossover sport utility vehicle sold by Toyota. The Highlander is on the Camry platform and shares the Camry's parts including the engine. The Highlander was redesigned in 2008 and Toyota sells the Highlander in Australia and Japan as the Kluger. it has a v6 or 4 cylinder engine. The Highlander's competitors are the Nissan Pathfinder, Chevrolet Traverse, Hyundai Santa Fe and the Ford Explorer.

[[Toyota Yaris]]

CATEGORIES: Toyota automobiles, 1990s automobiles, 2000s automobiles

The Toyota Yaris is a small automobile made and sold by Toyota since 1999. It is sold as the Toyota Belta, Toyota Vios, and Toyota Vitz. The Yaris is sold as a 3-door and 5-door hatchback and 4-door sedan. It is currently in its third generation. The first generation Yaris was known as the Toyota Echo in some markets. A distinctive feature of the first generation in many markets was a digital instrument display which glows out of a black hole in the centre of the dashboard. The second generation model arrived in 2005 and the current third generation has been on sale since 2011. 

The Yaris IV is presented in October 2019 before the opening of the 2019 Tokyo Motor Show for commercialization in early 2020.

[[Chrono Trigger]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 video games, PlayStation games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games, TOSE games, Video games with time travel

Chrono Trigger is a role-playing video game made by Square Soft for the Super NES game console.

[[Suzuki Sidekick]]

CATEGORIES: Suzuki automobiles

The Suzuki Sidekick and Suzuki Grand Vitara are sport utility vehicles made by Suzuki. They were sold since 1988 when they replaced the small Suzuki Samurai. It was sold by General Motors from 1989 to 2004 as the Geo Tracker. The vehicle is sold in other countries as the  Suzuki Escudo.

[[Hino Motors]]

CATEGORIES: Toyota, 1942 establishments, 1940s establishments in Japan

Hino Motors, Ltd. (日野自動車, Hino Jidōsha, 7205 ), also called Hino, is a manufacturer of diesel trucks, buses, and other vehicles based in Tokyo, Japan. It is a subsidiary of Toyota Motor Corporation.

[[Angrboða]]

CATEGORIES: Norse mythology

In Norse mythology, Angrboða (Old Norse "the one who brings grief" or "she-who-offers-sorrow") is a giantess. She is the wife of Loki and mother of the serpent Jörmungandr, the wolf Fenrir and the goddess Hel.

[[Marionette]]

CATEGORIES: Puppets

A marionette is a puppet that people control with strings called a manipulator from above.

[[Spencer Tunick]]

CATEGORIES: Spencer Tunick, 1967 births, Living people, American artists

Spencer Tunick (born January 1, 1967) is an American artist. Tunick is mostly known because he does temporary site-specific installations. In these installation, many people pose nude. Most of the installations are done in a urban setting. The people posing for Tunick, the models are volunteers. Usually they receive a signed copy of the image as a reward for posing.

[[Lisieux Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholic Cathedrals, Cathedrals in France, Normandy

Lisieux Cathedral is a cathedral in Lisieux. Officially it is called Saint-Pierre de Lisieux. It is devoted to Saint Peter. It is built in the gothic style.

[[Nihon Shoki]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, Japanese mythology, Shinto

Nihon Shoki, also known as the Nihongi, is an early book about the history of Japan up to 720 A.D.  It is one of the national history books which are together called the Rikkokushi.

[[Speed Racer (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 movies, American action movies, English-language movies, Movies based on TV series

Speed Racer is a 2008 action movie. The movie stars Emile Hirsch, Christina Ricci and Matthew Fox. It was directed by the Wachowski’s. The movie is based on the 1960s Japanese anime of the same name.

[[StarCraft II]]

CATEGORIES: MacOS games, Real-time strategy video games, StarCraft, Windows games

StarCraft II  is a military science fiction real-time strategy video game that is made by Blizzard Entertainment for personal computers. It is the sequel to the award-winning StarCraft. It's expansion, Starcraft II: Heart of the Swarm is Blizzard's next highly anticipated release of the series.

[[Enron]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in the United States, 2007 disestablishments in the United States, Companies based in Houston, Defunct companies of the United States, Ethics

Enron Xcelerator

Enron Creditors Recovery Corporation (formerly Enron Corporation, NYSE ticker symbol ENE) was an American energy company based in Houston, Texas. Enron used to have around 22,000 people before it went bankrupt in late 2001. In 2001, it was revealed that people in Enron were involved in accounting fraud. The company closed in 2007.

[[Kenneth Lay]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2006 deaths, American fraudsters, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Businesspeople from Missouri

Kenneth Lee Lay (April 15, 1942 – July 5, 2006) was an American businessman and fraudster. He is best known for being involved in the Enron scandal. Lay was indicted by a grand jury in Houston, Texas, for his role in Enron's collapse and was charged with 11 counts of securities fraud, wire fraud, and making false and misleading statements.

On May 25, 2006, he was found guilty on all six counts of conspiracy and fraud by a jury of eight women and four men and in a separate bench trial, The judge ruled that he was guilty of four counts of fraud and false statements. The sentencing was scheduled to take place on 11 September 2006, but it was later rescheduled for 23 October 2006. The scheduled sentencing never took place because Lay died of a heart attack while vacationing in Snowmass, Colorado on July 5, 2006.

[[Allele frequency]]

CATEGORIES: Classical genetics

Allele frequency refers to the different forms of a gene at a single  position on a chromosome. It is the proportion of a given allele to all alleles at the same locus. It is usually expressed as a percentage.

Allele frequencies may be used to describe genetic diversity in a population. If the frequency of any allele is above 1% it is probable that natural selection is maintaining it at this level. This is because the natural mutation rate of an allele is almost always much lower than 1%.

A fixed allele is one allele that exists for a particular population.  A fixed allele is homozygous for all members of the population.

The term allele refers to one variant gene out of several possible for a particular locus in the DNA. When all but one allele go away, one only remains.  That allele is said to be fixed.

[[Allele]]

CATEGORIES: Chromosomes

An allele is a form of a gene at a particular position (locus) on a chromosome.15 It is the bit of coding DNA at that place.p6

Typical plants and animals have two sets of chromosomes, one set inherited from each parent.123 These organisms are called diploid. Since such organisms have two sets of chromosomes, they have (except on the sex chromosomes) two alleles at each gene locus.p6

If the two alleles are identical, the individual is called a homozygote and is said to be homozygous. If instead the two alleles are different, the individual is a heterozygote and is heterozygous.205

[[Belchamp Otten]]

CATEGORIES: Civil parishes in Essex, Villages in Essex

Belchamp Otten is a village and civil parish in Essex, England. It is about 7 km (4 miles) west of Sudbury, Suffolk and is 36 km (23 miles) north-northeast from the county town of Chelmsford.  It is near Belchamp St Paul and Belchamp Walter.  The village is in the district of Braintree and in the parliamentary constituency of Saffron Walden.  The parish is part of the Stour Valley North parish cluster.

[[Motherwell F.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Premier League clubs, North Lanarkshire, 1886 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1880s establishments in Scotland

The Motherwell Football & Athletic Club Ltd. 

is a Scottish football club based in Motherwell, North Lanarkshire. Motherwell currently play in the Scottish Premier League; their home stadium is Fir Park. The current manager is Stephen Robinson.

[[1987-88 NHL season]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 in ice hockey, 1988 in ice hockey

The 1987–88 NHL season was the 71st season of the National Hockey League. It was an 80-game season with the top four teams in each division advancing to the Stanley Cup Playoffs. The NHL introduced a new trophy, the King Clancy Memorial Trophy, which was to be awarded to the player who best exemplifies leadership qualities on and off the ice and who has made a significant humanitarian contribution in his community.

[[San Francisco Giants]]

CATEGORIES: San Francisco Giants

The San Francisco Giants are a Major League Baseball team in San Francisco, California. They were founded in 1883, and have been in San Francisco since 1958. They are in the West Division of National League in baseball.

The Giants play at Oracle Park. They have been playing there since 2000 when it opened as Pacific Bell Park. The Giants have won eight World Series championship titles. They most recently won the World Series in 2014, defeating the Kansas City Royals in seven games. It was their third win in five years after beating the Texas Rangers and the Detroit Tigers in 2010 and 2012, respectively.

The Giants were originally from New York City. There they were called the New York Giants. They played their games in several stadiums called the Polo Grounds. They were a very good team in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Under John McGraw, the Giants won the 1905, 1921 and 1922 World Series. At that time, some of their players were Christy Mathewson and Bill Terry. Olympic gold medalist Jim Thorpe also briefly played for the team. By the 1950s, the Polo Grounds were old, and the Giants wanted a new stadium. Since they could not get one in New York, they moved to San Francisco.

After the move to San Francisco, the Giants lost three World Series in 1962, 1989, and 2002.  But they won three Series in 2010, 2012, and 2014.  In 2016, they had another shot at winning the Series in an even year; but they lost in the first round of the playoffs to the eventual champion Chicago Cubs.

[[Naas]]

CATEGORIES: County towns in Ireland, County Kildare

An Nás (ˈneɪs; Irish: Nás na Ríogh nɑːs nə riː or An Nás nɑːs) is the county town of County Kildare, Ireland. With a population of over 23,000 it is the largest town in the County of Kildare. It is a major commuter belt town, with many people living in Naas and working in Dublin. The nearby M7 motorway, which bypasses Naas and connects Dublin to the South and Southwest, is one of the busiest routes in the country.

[[Leinster]]

CATEGORIES: Leinster

Leinster (ˈlɛnstər; Irish: Laighin, lainʲ), one of the Provinces of Ireland, lies in the east of Ireland and comprises the counties of Carlow, Dublin, Kildare, Kilkenny, Laois, Longford, Louth, Meath, Offaly, Westmeath, Wexford and Wicklow. Leinster has the largest population of the  four provinces of Ireland. The traditional flag of Leinster features a golden harp on a green background.

