[[List of astrophysicists]]

CATEGORIES: Astrophysicists, Lists of scientists

An astrophysicist is a person whose profession is astrophysics.

[[List of walls]]

CATEGORIES: Walls, Lists

This is a list of famous walls.

[[List of vegetables]]

CATEGORIES: Vegetables, Food-related lists

Some vegetables which are botanically fruits (such as tomatoes) are considered to be vegetables in the culinary (eating) sense. This is why they appear in this article. For sources, see individual pages.

[[List of terrorist incidents]]

CATEGORIES: History-related lists, Terrorist attacks

The following is a list by date of acts and failed attempts that can be considered terrorism.

Note: there is no single official definition of terrorism in common use. Events listed here are commonly called terrorism, or meet some of the commonly used parts of the definition.

[[List of telescope types]]

CATEGORIES: Telescopes, Astronomy lists

Astronomical telescopes are divided into subgroups. All telescopes work by collecting electromagnetic radiation and focussing it into an image which may be seen or photographed. The purpose is to see things which are far away in the universe.

The traditional types all work to collect visible light from the sky. Recent types may work outside the visible spectrum. They all have their different advantages and disadvantages and they are used in different areas of astronomy.

[[List of shipwrecks]]

CATEGORIES: Transport lists, Ships

This list of shipwrecks is of those sunken ships whose remains have been found.

[[List of religions]]

CATEGORIES: Religions, Religion-related lists

This is a list of religions and spiritual traditions. Some entries are written more than once.

[[List of national parks in Africa]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Africa, Africa-related lists, Lists of national parks

[[List of languages]]

CATEGORIES: Language-related lists

This is a partial list of natural languages, arranged alphabetically.

[[List of endangered languages]]

CATEGORIES: Language-related lists, Africa

A list of endangered languages (with fewer than 1000 speakers or with very fast decline).

In order to judge if a language is actually endangered, the number of speakers is less important than the distribution among age cohorts. There may be 200,000 mother tongue speakers of the Breton language over 50 years of age, but fewer than 2,000 under 25 years of age - thus it is likely Breton will die out in the next half century. On the other hand, while there are 30,000 Ladin language speakers left, almost all children still learn it as their mother tongue - thus Ladin is not endangered in the 21st century.

[[List of emotions]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions, Non-verbal communication, Lists

This is a list of emotions (feelings) felt by humans.

[[List of earthquakes]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquakes, Science-related lists

The following is a list of major earthquakes:

The Richter scale was adopted in 1935, and was used in the above table also about earlier earthquakes at a merely indicative title. Earthquakes' effects were once measured after the Mercalli scale, which regards the practical damages that a seismic event causes to infrastructures and houses, and a sort of comparison between the two scale is now in use, especially for ancient events.

[[List of disasters]]

CATEGORIES: Disasters, History-related lists

This is a list of disasters, both natural and man-made. 

[[List of diseases]]

CATEGORIES: Disease-related lists

This is a list of common, well-known or infamous diseases. This is neither complete nor authoritative. This is not intended to be a list of rare diseases, nor is it a list of mental disorders.

This list includes both common names and technical names for diseases. This is deliberate; where multiple names are in common use for the same disease, all of those names should link to the main article for the disease

[[List of mental disorders]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses

The following is a list of mental disorders.

[[List of communist parties]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of political parties, Communist parties

There are a number of communist parties around the world.

In world history, the Russian and Chinese communists are very important.

In Western Europe, the French, Spanish and Italian communist parties are the biggest.  They have taken part in either local, regional or central government in those countries.

Some communist parties have different names, such as Socialist Party, Socialist Workers Party, or Workers Party.  But most socialist parties are social democratic and not communist.

[[List of color topics]]

CATEGORIES: Color, Lists

This is a list of color topics.

[[List of buildings]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of buildings

Famous or notable buildings with articles about them in Wikipedia include:

Index: A-B - C-D - E-I - J-O - 

[[List of bridges]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of bridges

List of bridges is a work in progress.

[[List of bones of the human skeleton]]

CATEGORIES: Bones, Science-related lists

A typical adult human skeleton consists of the following 206 bones. Some people have slightly more or fewer. Some bones are called "proximal" meaning nearer the torso, some as "intermediate" and some as "distal" meaning farther.

In the skull (22): 

In the middle ears (6):

In the throat (1):

In the shoulder girdle (4):

In the thorax (25): 

In the vertebral column (24): 

In the arms (6): 

In the hands (54): 

In the pelvis (4):

In the legs (8): 

In the feet (52): 

The infant skeleton has the following bones in addition to those above:

[[Lists of astronomical objects]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy lists

This is a partial list of the various lists of astronomical objects which either exist, or should exist, in Wikipedia.

[[List of stars]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of stars

The following is a small list of stars. On this list, stars should be placed by their English wiki title, unless a common name is clearly more used.

[[List of nearest stars]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of stars

This list of the nearest stars to Earth is by distance in light years (ly). These distances are taken from parallax data determined by the Research Consortium on Nearby Stars (or Recons). 

The sources for this information were the Yale Parallax Catalog Y, Hipparcos H, Soderhjelm 1999 S, Tinney 1996 T. Stars move, and so distances are as at present only.

Some 52 star systems beyond our own, the Solar System,  lie within 5.0 of the Sun. These systems contain 63 stars. 50 of these are red dwarfs, by far the most common type of star in the Milky Way. Much more massive stars, such as our own, make up the remaining 13. In addition to these "true" stars, scientists have identified 11 brown dwarfs (objects not quite massive enough to fuse hydrogen), and four white dwarfs. White dwarfs are extremely dense collapsed cores that remain after stars such as our Sun have exhausted all fusible hydrogen in their core and have slowly shed their outer layers. Despite the relative proximity of these 78 objects to Earth, only nine are bright enough in visible light to be visible to the naked eye from Earth, 6.5 apparent magnitude. All of these objects are currently moving in the Local Bubble, a region within the Orion–Cygnus Arm of the Milky Way.

[[List of planets]]

CATEGORIES: Planets, Astronomy lists

This is a list of two types of planets: standard planets and dwarf planets, in the Solar System.

[[List of galaxies]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies, Astronomy lists

List of galaxies and galaxy clusters. Because there are so many galaxies in the universe, this list has been divided into several categories.

The first catalog that catalogues galaxies is the Catalogue of Galaxies and of Clusters of Galaxies.

[[List of nearest galaxies]]

CATEGORIES: Galaxies, Astronomy lists

This list of the nearest galaxies to Earth is ordered by increasing distance. Many of the distances are only estimates, and some may be incorrect by 50% or more. The distance ranking in this list should be seen only as a guess. Distances are given in light years (ly).

[[List of satellites of the Milky Way]]

CATEGORIES: Local galaxies, Astronomy lists, Milky Way

List of satellites of Milky Way:

Note: ly means light years

[[List of comets]]

CATEGORIES: Comets, Astronomy lists

This is a list of some comets in the solar system.

Periodic comets visit us again and again. Non-periodic comets visit us only once. On this list there is a "P" in front of the periodic comets. In front of non-periodic comets there is a "C".  There is sometimes a number in front of the "P": it shows the number of times people saw the periodic comet visiting us.  

[[List of stars with confirmed extrasolar planets]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of stars, Planets

The following is a list of main sequence stars with confirmed extrasolar planets. Note that the masses of the planets are lower bounds only. If a planet is detected by the spectral line displacement method referred to above, no information is gained about the inclination of the planet's plane of orbit around its star, and a value for this is needed to calculate the mass. It has become customary to arbitrarily assume that the plane is exactly lined up with the line of sight from Earth (this produces the lowest possible mass consistent with the spectral line measurements).

[[List of water sports]]

CATEGORIES: Water sports, Sports lists

Many sports are played in water.

The following is a list of water sports, divided by category. This list is not complete. Some of the sports include only one part related to swimming, as for example Triathlon.

[[List of waterways]]

CATEGORIES: Waterways, Geography-related lists

The list of waterways is a link page for any river, canal, estuary, or firth.

[[List of wave topics]]

CATEGORIES: Science-related lists, Wave physics

This is a list of wave topics, by Wikipedia page.

[[List of waterfalls]]

CATEGORIES: Waterfalls, Geography-related lists

This is a list of waterfalls.

[[List of tunnels]]

CATEGORIES: Tunnels, Transport lists

The list of tunnels is a link page for any road tunnel,  railway tunnel, or waterway tunnel anywhere in the world.

[[List of tallest structures in the world]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of buildings

This is a list of tallest structures in the world, past and present of any type. Most of the structures are television broadcasting masts.  There are also the taller tower-type structures (like the CN Tower) and the taller high rise buildings (like the Sears Tower). 

The list also includes some other structures like oil platforms, electrical towers, bridge towers, etc. List is organized by absolute height since it includes many different classes of structures.

This list includes quite a few masts. A mast is a man-made support structure, commonly used on sailing ships as support for sails, or on land as radio masts and towers used to support telecommunication equipment such as radio antennas ("aerials" in the UK).

[[List of symbols]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols, Lists

This is a list of graphical signs, icons, and symbols.

[[List of supermarkets]]

CATEGORIES: Supermarkets, Lists

This is a list of supermarkets around the world. 

[[Acid]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Acids

An acid is a substance that can donate a hydrogen ion (H+) (generally speaking, this will be a proton) to another substance. Acids have a pH less than 7.0. 

A chemical can donate a proton if the hydrogen atom is attached to an electronegative atom like oxygen, nitrogen, or chlorine. Some acids are strong and others are weak. The weak acids hold on to some of their protons, while the strong acids let go of all of them. All acids will release hydrogen ions into solutions. The amount of ions that get released per molecule will determine if the acid is weak or strong. Weak acids are acids that partially release the hydrogen atoms that are attached. These acids, then, may lower pH by dissociation of hydrogen ions, but not completely. Weak acids generally have a pH value of 4-6 while strong acids have a pH value of 1 to 3.

A base is an acid's "chemical opposite." A base is a substance that will accept the acid's hydrogen atom. Bases are molecules that can  split apart in water and release hydroxide ions.

[[White dwarf]]

CATEGORIES: Types of stars

A white dwarf is a compact star. Their matter is squashed together. Gravitation has pulled the atoms close together, and taken off their electrons. The mass of a white dwarf is similar to the mass of the Sun, but its volume is similar to that of the Earth.

White dwarfs are the final evolutionary state of all stars whose mass is not high enough to become a neutron star. Over 97% of the stars in the Milky Way will become white dwarf stars.§1 After the hydrogen–fusing lifetime of a main-sequence star ends, it will expand to a red giant which fuses helium to carbon and oxygen in its core. If a red giant does not have enough mass to fuse carbon, around 1 billion K, inactive carbon and oxygen will build up at its center. After shedding its outer layers to form a planetary nebula, it will leave behind the core, which is the white dwarf.

The material in a white dwarf no longer undergoes fusion reactions, so the star has no source of energy. It is not supported by the heat of fusion against gravitational collapse.

A star like our Sun will become a white dwarf when it has run out of fuel. Near the end of its life, it will go through a red giant stage, and then lose most of its gas, until what is left contracts and becomes a young white dwarf.

[[Beach]]

CATEGORIES: Beaches

A beach is a landform along the coast of an ocean, sea, lake, or river. It usually consists of loose particles, such as sand, gravel, shingle, or pebbles. The particles of a beach are sometimes biological in origin, such as mollusc shells or bits of coral and sometimes bits of igneous rock, but the most common mineral in beaches is quartz.

Beaches are natural landing and launching places for boats, and landing craft are specially made for beaches.

People often use beaches for recreation. They swim, bask in the sun, or just relax. The most popular beaches have fine white or light-colored sand and warm water to swim in. Beaches are also used for diving or for seeing marine life.

Among the world's most popular and well-known beaches are Aruba (Dutch Caribbean), Long Beach (Canada), Copacabana Beach (Brazil), Hot Water Beach (New Zealand), Megan Bay (St. Thomas), Kailua Beach (Hawaii), Zandvoort Beach (Netherlands), Jeffreys Bay (South Africa), Bondi Beach (Australia) anad Lake Como beaches (Italy).

Taking holidays on the beach is something of a British cultural export. Early railways in the 19th century took people to places they had never seen before. This tourism was made possible by the industrial revolution. Whole seaside resort towns grew to support visitors, where before there were just villages. Vacations at the sea became common all over the world.

Beaches are never static. They are always being built up or eroded, more quickly than other landforms. Over time the boundary between the land and the sea changes. New Romney, a small town in Kent, is one of the Cinque Ports, a mile from the sea. In Henry VIII's time it was a port on the south coast of England. The growth of Dungeness has cut it off from the sea. Dungeness is a huge shingle beach.

[[Mental illness]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases, Mental illnesses

A mental illness is an illness of the mind. People with a mental illness may behave in strange ways  or have strange thoughts in their view or the view of others. Mental illnesses can affect the day to day functioning of a person. 

Mental illnesses develop during the life of a person. This may be linked to genes and experience. What is considered as a mental illness has changed over time. What is considered to be a mental illness may not be one in a different culture. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) by the American Psychiatric Association is used around the world. 

People with a mental illness sometimes have problems dealing with other people, or struggle with daily functioning. Treatment and certain medications can help people with daily functioning.

In some cases, mental illnesses change the way the brain works. Many conditions which affect the brain are not mental illnesses, as they do not change the way in which people think: Neither epilepsy nor Parkinson's disease is a mental illness, yet both affect the brain. 

[[Depression (mental illness)]]

CATEGORIES: Mood disorders

Depression (also called major depressive disorder, unipolar depression or clinical depression) is a mental illness. Many people think that depression just means a person is very sad. However, depression can cause many symptoms in the body as well as mood problems.

[[Qur'an]]

CATEGORIES: Quran, Islam, Arabic words and phrases, Religious terminology

The Qur'an (القرآن) is the holy book of Islam. The Qur'an is considered by Muslims to be "The Word of Allah (God)". This book is claimed to be different from other religious texts in that it is said to be the literal words of God, through the prophet Muhammad. 

It has been written and was read in the Arabic language for more than 1,400 years. But, because many Muslims around the world do not understand Arabic, the meaning of the Qur'an is also given in other languages, so that readers can understand better what the Arabic words in the Qur'an mean. These books are like dictionaries to the Qur'an - they are not read as part of the religion of Islam, to replace the Arabic Qur'an. Muslims believe that these translations are not the true Qur'an; only the Arabic copy is the true Qur'an. 

Sharia laws "based on the expressions and interpretations of the Qur'an" are problematic in terms of today's universal human rights, gender equality and individual religion and speech freedoms.

[[Tony Blair]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British Roman Catholics, British autobiographers, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Leaders of the Labour Party (UK), Leaders of the Opposition (United Kingdom), Politicians from Edinburgh, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, Privy Councillors (UK), UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, UK MPs 2001–2005, UK MPs 2005–2010

Anthony Charles Lynton "Tony" Blair (born 6 May 1953) is a British politician who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1997 to 2007. He was Leader of the Labour Party from 1994 to 2007 and Member of Parliament (MP) for Sedgefield from 1983 to 2007. On the day he stood down as Prime Minister and MP, he was made official Envoy of the Quartet on the Middle East on behalf of the United Nations, the European Union, the United States and Russia.

Blair was elected Leader of the Labour Party in the 1994 leadership election following the sudden death of his predecessor, John Smith. Under Blair's leadership the party abandoned many policies it had held for decades. Labour won a landslide victory in the 1997 general election, which ended 18 years of Conservative rule with the heaviest Conservative defeat since 1832.

He was the Labour Party's longest-serving Prime Minister and the only leader to have taken the party to three uninterrupted general election victories. 

Gordon Brown, Chancellor of the Exchequer during all Blair's ten years in office, succeeded him as party leader and Prime Minister in 2007.

[[Accident]]

CATEGORIES: Health

An accident is when something goes wrong when it is not meant to. Physical accidents are things like collisions, injuries, and falling. Non-physical accidents are things like accidentally telling someone a secret, forgetting something important, or deleting an important computer file.

Road accidents kill thousands of people each month in the United States, and thousands each week in the world. They injure more thousands each week. The majority involve a car but there are also many bus, truck and bicycle accidents. Aircraft crashes, ship sinkings and other transport accidents also attract much attention. 

Injuries from accidents, however, are more numerous at home than elsewhere. They attract less attention because only a few people are hurt at a time.  

Often, accidents are investigated so that we can learn how to avoid them in the future. Sometimes by studying an accident we can discover new things, for example penicillin.

Most of the deaths resulting from injuries are caused by fire accidents. Thus, accidental fires are one of the leading causes of unintentional deaths.  The main cause of death in fire incidents is burning, but inhalation of smoke and toxic gas causes death as well. Often the cause of the fire is very simple and unexpected, such as forgetting a candle near something flammable, defect in the hardware, or old electrical wires. So most of the large fires are caused by simple reasons.

[[Acne]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria, Skin

Acne is an infection of the skin, caused by changes in the sebaceous glands. The most common form of acne is called acne vulgaris, which means "common acne". The redness comes from the inflammation of the skin in response to the infection.

Oils from the glands combine with dead skin cells to block hair follicles. Under the blocked pore, oil builds up. Skin bacteria can then grow very quickly. This infection makes the skin become swollen and red, which becomes visible.

The face, chest, back, and upper arms are most common places for acne to happen.

Acne is common during puberty, when a person is turning from a child into an adult, because of high levels of hormones. Acne becomes less common as people reach adulthood.

There are lots of acne treatment methods available, including natural treatments.

[[Dinosaur]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs

Dinosaurs (meaning "terrible lizards") are a varied group of Archosaur reptiles. They were the dominant land animals of the Mesozoic era. Over 500 different genera of dinosaurs are known. Fossils of dinosaurs have been found on every continent, and there are still frequent new discoveries. 

Dinosaurs appeared in the Upper Triassic, about 230 million years ago. The earliest date of a dinosaur fossil is that of Eoraptor and Herrerasaurus from the Argentine, and Saturnalia from Brazil, 237 to 228 mya. By the early Jurassic they were the top land vertebrates, and dominated most environments on land. They continued until the sudden K/T extinction event 66 million years ago.

From the fossil record, we know that birds are living feathered dinosaurs. They evolved from the earliest theropods during the Jurassic. They were the only line of dinosaurs to survive to the present day.

Dinosaurs had adaptations which helped make them successful. The first known dinosaurs were small predators that walked on two legs. All their descendants had an upright posture, with the legs underneath the body. This transformed their whole life-style. There were other features. Most of the smaller dinosaurs had feathers, and were probably warm-blooded. This would make them active, with a higher metabolism than modern reptiles. Social interaction, with living in herds and co-operation seems very likely for some types.

The first fossils were recognised as dinosaurs in the early 19th century. Some of their bones were found much earlier, but were not understood. William Buckland, Gideon Mantell and Richard Owen saw these bones were a special group of animals. Dinosaurs are now major attractions at museums around the world. They have become part of popular culture. There have been many best-selling books and movies. New discoveries are reported in the media.

[[Stone Age]]

CATEGORIES: Stone Age

The Stone Age was a prehistoric time when people made tools from stone. Wood and bone were also used for tools. Those don't last as long, so more stone tools are found. Stone (especially a hard kind of stone called flint) was used to cut things, and for spearheads. The term "hand-axe" reminds us that the flint was usually shaped to be used in the hand.

The period lasted for about 3.4 million years, and ended between 4,000 BC and 2,000 BC. Then, many groups of people found copper, and learnt how to make bronze.

The period began with the first stone tools, about 2.7 million years ago. Some groups of people in Papua New Guinea were still in the stone age into the 20th century. They killed animals for food and clothing. They used animal skin for their shelters.

The time after the Stone Age is the Bronze Age, named after the metal bronze. The Stone Age ended when people discovered the art of smelting (making metals). The first metal used was copper, followed by bronze. People probably began using bronze instead of just stone in the Middle East sometime between 3000 and 2000 BC. 

The Stone Age is divided by archaeologist into three sections: Paleolithic ("old stone"), Mesolithic ("middle stone"), and Neolithic ("new stone"). Pottery was invented during the Neolithic Stone Age.

The Palaeolithic  is a prehistoric era distinguished by the development of stone tools. It covers the greatest portion of humanity's time (roughly 99% of human history) on Earth, from about 2.7 million years ago to about 20,000 years ago. It was followed by the Mesolithic and Neolithic cultures.

[[Adolf Hitler]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1945 deaths, Anti-Communists, Austrian painters, Austrian politicians, Chancellors of Nazi Germany, Former dictators, Former Roman Catholics, German military personnel of World War I, German military personnel of World War II, German painters, Hitler family, Holocaust perpetrators, Members of the Reichstag (Nazi Germany), Members of the Reichstag (Weimar Republic), Ministers-President of Prussia, Murderers, Nazi leaders, Nazis who committed suicide, People from Upper Austria, People with borderline personality disorder, Politicians of the Nazi Party, Politicians who committed suicide, Presidents of Nazi Germany, Suicides by firearm in Germany, Time People of the Year

Adolf Hitler (20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945) was a German politician and the leader of Nazi Germany. He became Chancellor of Germany in 1933, after a democratic election in 1932. He became Führer (leader) of Nazi Germany in 1934.

Hitler led the Nazi Party NSDAP from 1921. When in power the Nazis created a dictatorship called the Third Reich. In 1933, they blocked out all other political parties. This gave Hitler absolute power.

Hitler ordered the invasion of Poland in 1939, and this started World War II. Because of Hitler, at least 50 million people died. During World War II, Hitler was the Commander-in-Chief of the German Armed Forces and made all the important decisions. This was part of the so-called Führerprinzip. He shot himself on 30 April 1945, as the Soviet Army got to Berlin, because he did not want to be captured alive by the Soviet Union.

Hitler and the Nazi regime were responsible for the killing of an estimated 19.3 million civilians and prisoners of war. In addition, 28.7 million soldiers and people died as a result of military action in Europe.

Nazi forces committed many war crimes during the war. They were doing what Hitler told them to do. They killed their enemies or put them in concentration camps and death camps. Hitler and his men persecuted and killed Jews and other ethnic, religious, and political minorities. In what is called the Holocaust, the Nazis killed six million Jews, Roma people, homosexuals, Slavs, and many other groups of people.

[[Virgil]]

CATEGORIES: 70 BC births, 19 BC deaths, Ancient Roman writers

Virgil, Publius Vergilius Maro, or Vergil, (15 October 70 BC  21 September 19 BC) was a poet in the Latin language. His poems are about gods and their mythology.  Virgil's most famous epic poem is called the Aeneid.

[[Alcohol]]

CATEGORIES: Alcohols, Carbohydrates, Functional groups

In chemistry, alcohol is a general term which refers to many organic compounds used in industry and science as reagents, solvents, and fuels. Alcohols are carbohydrates which are  made of an alkyl group with one or more hydroxyl (-OH) groups bound to its carbon atoms. Alcohol is colorless, and also transparent.    

[[Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart]]

CATEGORIES: 1756 births, 1791 deaths, Austrian composers, Child prodigies, Classical era composers, People from Salzburg, Smallpox survivors, Austrian Roman Catholics

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (January 27, 1756 – December 5, 1791; pronounced MOHT-sart) was an Austrian composer (music writer), instrumentalist, and music teacher. His full baptised name was Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophillus Mozart. He was born in Salzburg, Austria, the youngest child of Leopold and Anna Maria Mozart. From a very early age, the young Mozart showed great musical talent. He toured Europe with his parents and older sister "Nannerl" for several years performing for royalty and the aristocratic elite.

As a young man, Mozart tried but failed to establish himself as a composer in Paris. He returned to Salzburg where he was briefly employed in the court of the Archbishop of Salzburg. He was restless, aware of his genius, and thought Salzburg too small for his talent. He relocated to Vienna where he met with some success. He married Constance Weber and fathered two sons. He died in Vienna after a brief but unknown illness.

Mozart wrote more than 600 musical works, all of the very highest quality. His works include the operas The Marriage of Figaro, Don Giovanni, Così fan tutte and The Magic Flute; the symphonies in E-flat major, G minor, and C major ("Jupiter"); concertos for piano, violin, and various wind instruments; and numerous chamber pieces, works for the church, minuets and other dances, songs, and the Requiem.  Along with Bach and Beethoven, Mozart is regarded as one of the greatest composers who has ever lived.

[[Johann Sebastian Bach]]

CATEGORIES: 1685 births, 1750 deaths, Bach family, Baroque composers, German composers, German Lutherans, German organists, People from Saxony-Anhalt

Johann Sebastian Bach (31 March 1685 in Eisenach – 28 July 1750 in Leipzig; pronounced BAHK) was a German composer and organist. He lived in the last part of the Baroque period. He is most famous for his work Toccata and Fugue in D Minor, St. Matthew Passion, St. John Passion, Mass in B minor, and the Brandenburg Concertos. He spent several years working at courts of noblemen. Here he wrote most of his chamber music and orchestral music. Most of his life, however, he worked in a church where he was expected to write church music. Bach wrote almost every kind of music except opera. During the last part of his life most composers were writing in a new style called the Classical style, but Bach always wrote in the Baroque style. That made some people at the time think he was old-fashioned, but today we know that his work is the very best of Baroque music.  Along with Mozart and Beethoven, Bach is regarded as one of the greatest composers who has ever lived.

[[Atmosphere of Earth]]

CATEGORIES: Atmosphere

The atmosphere is the layer of gases around the Earth. It is held in place by Earth's gravity.There are total 5 layers of atmosphere, named stratosphere, troposphere, mesosphere, thermosphere, and exosphere. It is made up mainly of nitrogen (78.1%). It also has plentiful oxygen (20.9%) and small amounts of argon (0.9%), carbon dioxide (~ 0.035%), water vapor, and other gases. The atmosphere protects life on Earth by absorbing (taking) ultraviolet rays from the sun. It makes our days cooler and our nights warmer.

Solid particulates, including ash, dust, volcanic ash, etc. are small parts of atmosphere. They are important in making clouds and fog.

The atmosphere does not end at a specific place. The higher above the Earth, the thinner the atmosphere. There is no clear border between the atmosphere and outer space, though the Kármán line is sometimes treated as a border. Even higher, for some purposes the edge of the magnetosphere is treated as a border. 75% of the atmosphere is within 11 of the Earth's surface.

[[Human penis]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the male reproductive system

The human penis is a male body part found on the outside of the body. It is used for urination and for sexual reproduction. The main sexual function of the penis is to be inserted into a female's vagina and deliver semen which may cause pregnancy. This activity is called sexual intercourse.

There are many slang words for penis. They include dick, cock, and schlong. A euphemism for penis is male member.

[[Sahara]]

CATEGORIES: Deserts

The Sahara, in North Africa, is the largest desert in the world except for Antarctica. The Sahara is the largest hot desert.

It is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean, the Atlas Mountains, the Mediterranean Sea, the Red Sea, and the Sahel region. It runs through many countries including Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Mauritania, Mali, Niger, Chad, and The Sudan. Most parts are uninhabited, but some people manage to survive in places where there is water.

The Sahara Desert is about 9,000,000 square kilometers (3.5 million square miles) in size. It has been both larger and smaller at different times. After the last ice age it became more fertile, then dried up again. It is the hottest place on the Earth, but not the driest. The driest is the Atacama Desert in South America. The Sahara has about the same size as the whole United States.

[[Paris]]

CATEGORIES: Paris, Capital of France, Departmental capitals in France, Regional capitals in France, Olympic cities

Paris (nicknamed the "City of light") is the capital city of France, and the largest city in France. The area is 105, and around 2.15 million people live there. If suburbs are counted, the population of the Paris area rises to 10.7 million people. It is the most densely populated city in the European Union, with  20.653 people per square kilometer.

The Seine river runs through the oldest part of Paris, and divides it into two parts, known as the Left Bank and the Right Bank. It is surrounded by many forests.

Paris is also the center of French economy, politics, traffic and culture. Paris has many art museums and historical buildings. As a traffic center, Paris has a very good underground subway system (called the Metro). It also has two airports. The Metro was built in 1900, and its total length is more than 200.

The city has a multi-cultural style, because 19% of the people there are from outside France. There are many different restaurants with all kinds of food. Paris also has some types of pollution like air pollution and light pollution.

[[The Holocaust]]

CATEGORIES: The Holocaust, Judaism in Germany

The Holocaust, sometimes called The ''Shoah (השואה''), was a genocide in which Nazi Germany systematically killed people during World War II. About six million Jews were killed,

Jack R. Fischel (Historical Dictionary of the Holocaust, 2010): "The Holocaust refers to the Nazi objective of annihilating every Jewish man, woman, and child who fell under their control."pb

Peter Hayes (How Was It Possible? A Holocaust Reader, 2015): "The Holocaust, the Nazi attempt to eradicate the Jews of Europe, has come to be regarded as the emblematic event of Twentieth Century ... Hitler's ideology depicted the Jews as uniquely dangerous to Germany and therefore uniquely destined to disappear completely from the Reich and all territories subordinate to it. The threat posted by supposedly corrupting but generally powerless Sinti and Roma was far less, and therefore addressed inconsistently in the Nazi realm. Gay men were defined as a problem only if they were German or having sex with Germans and considered 'curable' in most cases. ... Germany's murderous intent toward the handicapped ... was more comprehensive ... but here, too, implementation was uneven and life-saving exceptions permitted .... Not only were some Slavs—Slovaks, Croats, Bulgarians, some Ukrainians—allotted a favored place in Hitler's New Order, but the fate of most of the other Slavs the Nazis derided as sub-humans ... consisted of enslavement and gradual attrition, not the prompt massacre meted out to the Jews after 1941."pb

Raul Hilberg (The Destruction of the European Jews, 2003): "Little by little, some documents were gathered and books were written, and after about two decades the annihilation of the Jews was given a name: Holocaust."pb

Holocaust Memorial Day Trust, UK (2019): "The Holocaust (The Shoah in Hebrew) was the attempt by the Nazis and their collaborators to murder all the Jews in Europe."pb

Ronnie S. Landau (The Nazi Holocaust: Its History and Meaning, 1992): "The Holocaust involved the deliberate, systematic murder of approximately 6 million Jews in Nazi-dominated Europe between 1941 and 1945."pb

Michael Marrus (Perspectives on the Holocaust, 2015): "The Holocaust, the murder of close to six million Jews by the Nazis during the Second World War ...".pb

Timothy D. Snyder (Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin, 2010): "In this book the term Holocaust signifies the final version of the Final Solution, the German policy to eliminate the Jews of Europe by murdering them. Although Hitler certainly wished to remove the Jews from Europe in a Final Solution earlier, the Holocaust on this definition begins in summer 1941, with the shooting of Jewish women and children in the occupied Soviet Union. The term Holocaust is sometimes used in two other ways: to mean all German killing policies during the war, or to mean all oppression of Jews by the Nazi regime. In this book, Holocaust means the murder of the Jews in Europe, as carried out by the Germans by guns and gas between 1941 and 1945."pb

Dan Stone (Histories of the Holocaust, 2010): "'Holocaust' ... refers to the genocide of the Jews, which by no means excludes an understanding that other groups—notably Romanies and Slavs—were victims of genocide."pb

United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (Holocaust Encyclopedia, 2017): "The Holocaust was the systematic, bureaucratic, state-sponsored persecution and murder of six million Jews by the Nazi regime and its collaborators."pb

 as well as five million others that the Nazis claimed were inferior (mostly Slavs, communists, Romani/Roma people, people with disabilities, homosexuals, and Jehovah's Witnesses). These people were rounded up, put in ghettos, forced to work in concentration camps, and then killed in gas chambers.  Jews were forced to wear the yellow Star of David, a symbol of their religion.

[[Kyoto]]

CATEGORIES: Kyoto, Former capitals of Japan

Kyoto (京都) is a city in Japan. This city was the capital of Japan from 794 until 1868.

Kyoto is a major city in the Kansai region of Japan. Its population is 1.5 million people. The city of Kyoto is the capital city of the prefecture of Kyoto. Kyoto is one of the cultural, educational, and technology centers of Japan. In it are many universities including Kyoto University, the second oldest national university of Japan.

[[Anarchy]]

CATEGORIES: Anarchism, Economic systems, Society

Anarchy (From Greek αναρχια meaning "without a leader") is a word that has more than one meaning. Some of its meanings are:

In the first meaning listed, an anarchy might be a made-up or real society based on a group's beliefs about anarchism (see anarcho-communism).

In the second meaning listed, "anarchy" has to do with having no political order. The CIA World factbook says that there is only one nation, Somalia, that is in a state of anarchy. In Somalia, the government is no longer in control, and some parts of the country are ruled by mobs and warlords who sometimes fight one another.

There are some countries (Afghanistan, Albania, Burundi, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Rwanda) where government is "emerging" or "transitional", and were in civil unrest in the near past. The DC Who says that the Solomon Islands is moving towards civil unrest because "violence, corruption and crime have undermined stability and civil society".

When there is no political order, more than one government or political authority might sometimes compete for the same food, oil, land, or groups of people. The word "Anarchy" to used to describe this. However, because there is more than one competing authority, a better word might be polyarchy. The difference between "anarchy" and "polyarchy" is important to someone who thinks that true anarchy would work well. The word for someone who thinks this is "anarchist", and the word for this kind of thinking is "anarchism". Anarchism has been thought about for hundreds of years. The book called "The Politics of Individualism" attempts to teach its readers that anarchism is not always simply an opposition to the government, but a complicated political movement against the domination of few people.

[[DNA]]

CATEGORIES: DNA, Cell biology, Macromolecules

DNA, short for deoxyribonucleic acid, is the molecule that contains the genetic code of organisms. This includes animals, plants, protists, archaea and bacteria.

DNA is in each cell in the organism and tells cells what proteins to make. Mostly, these proteins are enzymes. DNA is inherited by children from their parents. This is why children share traits with their parents, such as skin, hair and eye color. The DNA in a person is a combination of the DNA from each of their parents.

Part of an organism's DNA is "non-coding DNA" sequences. They do not code for protein sequences. Some noncoding DNA is transcribed into non-coding RNA molecules, such as transfer RNA, ribosomal RNA, and regulatory RNAs. Other sequences are not transcribed at all, or give rise to RNA of unknown function. The amount of non-coding DNA varies greatly among species. For example, over 98% of the human genome is non-coding DNA, while only about 2% of a typical bacterial genome is non-coding DNA.

Viruses use either DNA or RNA to infect organisms. The genome replication of most DNA viruses takes place in the cell's nucleus, whereas RNA viruses usually replicate in the cytoplasm.

[[Karl Marx]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 births, 1883 deaths, 19th century philosophers, Former Christians, German atheists, German communists, German economists, German historians, German philosophers, German sociologists, Infectious disease deaths in London, Jewish atheists, Jewish German scientists, Jewish German writers, Jewish philosophers, Marxism, People from Rhineland-Palatinate

Karl Heinrich Marx (5 May 1818 in Trier – 14 March 1883 in London) was a German political thinker who wrote about economics and politics. Marx thought that if a place that works together runs on wage-labor, then there would always be class struggle. Marx thought that this class struggle would result in workers taking power. He believed that no economic class—wage workers, land owners, etc. should have power over another. Marx believed that everyone should contribute what they can, and everyone should get what they need. His most famous book was the Communist Manifesto. He wrote it with Friedrich Engels in 1848. The book is about the ideas and aims of communism. His ideas are called Marxism.

His most important work is Das Kapital, or The Capital. It is commonly known in English as simply 'Capital.' He spent many years working on the three parts of the book.  Das Kapital describes how "capitalism" works and the problems this creates, such as division of labour, alienation and exploitation.  The book has led to many arguments between those who agree with the book and those who do not. Marx's ideas have been thought of as responsible for socialist revolutions (like the Russian Revolution).

Marx's most popular theory was 'historical materialism', arguing that history is the result of material conditions, rather than ideas.  He believed that religion, morality, social structures and other things are all rooted in economics.  In his later life he was more tolerant of religion.

Karl Marx was born in Trier in 1818, but he had to move many times because the government did not like his ideas. Marx lived for a long time in London. He died there in 1883. After he died, his friend Engels finished many of his works.

Marx also wrote the Economic and Philosophic Manuscripts of 1844, a critique of political economy in which he discusses topics such as labor wages, labor rent, and capital profit, and his ideas of how to change the economy, including proletarian socialist revolution and an eventual communist society.

Many people continue to follow and develop Marx's ideas.

[[Bread]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Breads

Bread is a type of baked food. It is mainly made from dough, which is made mainly from flour and water. Usually, salt and yeast are added. Bread is often baked in an oven. It can be bought all over the world.

Bread can be toasted or used to make sandwiches.  Pizza is a food based on bread. There are many different kinds of bread. 

The two main types of bread are:

The color and taste of the bread depend on the kind of flour used and the style of baking. Flour made from the whole grain gives darker bread. Flour made just from the polished wheat grain gives a very white bread. Rye and barley flour give darker types of bread. The type of flour also changes how long the bread can be kept before going bad. Some strains of wheat are resistant to fungus, but may not produce a bread as tasty as a weaker strain.

[[Shinto]]

CATEGORIES: Shinto

Shinto (神道) is a form of Japanese animism. It has many kami, translated as gods or nature spirits. Some "kami" are just spirits of certain places, and some are the overall "kami" (like "Amaterasu", the Sun goddess). The word "Shinto" comes from the Japanese words "神", shin—the word for spirit or god, and "道", tō—the word for "the way" or "path". So, Shinto means "the way of the gods." 

State Shinto was the main religion of Japan before World War II. During the period 1868 to 1945 the Japanese government used Shinto for propaganda. All Japanese were forced to register with their local shrine. All Shinto priests worked for the government. War was seen as a sacred duty. The Emperor of Japan was seen as a god. Japanese Buddhism was also involved with the war effort (See Zen at War).

Shinto has many rituals and customs, and some are done every day. Festivals are frequent. Some people mix Shinto and Buddhist rituals and beliefs. 

[[Volcano]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes

A volcano is a mountain that has lava (hot, liquid rock) coming out from a magma chamber under the ground, or did have in the past. Volcanoes are formed by the movement of tectonic plates.

The Earth's crust has 17 major, rigid tectonic plates. These float on a hotter, softer layer in its mantle. Volcanoes are often found where tectonic plates are moving apart or coming together.   

Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the crust's plates, e.g., in the East African Rift. Volcanoes are usually not found where two tectonic plates slide past one another.

Volcanism away from plate boundaries is caused by mantle plumes. These so-called "hotspots", for example Hawaii, are thought to arise from upwelling magma from the core–mantle boundary, 3,000 km deep in the Earth.  

Most volcanoes have a volcanic crater at the top. When a volcano is active, materials come out of it. The materials include lava, steam, gaseous sulfur compounds, ash and broken rock pieces.

When there is enough pressure, the volcano erupts. Some volcanic eruptions blow off the top of the volcano. Sometimes, the magma comes out quickly and sometimes it comes slowly. Some eruptions come out at a side instead of the top.

Volcanoes are found on planets other than Earth. An example is Olympus Mons on Mars.

Volcanologists are scientists who study volcanoes using methods from geology, chemistry, geography, mineralogy, physics and sociology.

The world's biggest volcano is named Mauna Loa in Hawaii. Mauna Loa is part of the five volcanoes on Hawaii's 'Big Island'. The most recent time this volcano erupted was in 1984. It erupted 33 times in the last 170 years. Like all the other Hawaiian volcanoes, Mauna Loa was created by the movement of the Pacific tectonic plate which moved over the Hawaii hotspot in the Earth's mantle. Mauna Loa is 4,196 meters tall. It is a shield volcano. The largest recent eruption from Mauna Loa left a lava trail 51 long.

[[Big Bang]]

CATEGORIES: Cosmology, Astrophysics, Astrology

The Big Bang is a scientific theory about how the universe started, and then made the stars and galaxies we see today. The Big Bang is the name that scientists use for the most common theory of the universe, from the very early stages to the present day.

The universe began as a very hot, small, and dense superforce (the mix of the four fundamental forces), with no stars, atoms, form, or structure (called a "singularity"). Then about 13.8 billion years ago, space expanded very quickly (thus the name "Big Bang"). This started the formation of atoms, which eventually led to the formation of stars and galaxies. It was Georges  who first noted (in 1927) that an expanding universe could be traced back in time to an originating single point. The universe is still expanding today, and getting colder as well.

As a whole, the universe is growing and the temperature is falling as time passes. Cosmology is the study of how the universe began and its development. Some scientists who study cosmology have agreed that the Big Bang theory matches what they have observed so far.

Fred Hoyle called the theory the "Big Bang" on his radio show. He did not believe the Big Bang was correct. Scientists who did not agree with him thought the name was funny and decided to use it.

Scientists base the Big Bang theory on many different observations. The most important is the redshift of very far away galaxies. Redshift is the Doppler effect occurring in light. When an object moves away from Earth, its color rays look more similar to the color red than they actually are, because the movement stretches the wavelength of light given off by the object. Scientists use the word "red hot" to describe this stretched light wave because red is the longest wavelength on the visible spectrum. The more redshift there is, the faster the object is moving away. By measuring the redshift, scientists proved that the universe is expanding, and they can work out how fast the object is moving away from the Earth. With very exact observation and measurements, scientists believe that the universe was a singularity approximately 13.8 billion years ago. Because most things become colder as they expand, scientists assume that the universe was very small and very hot when it started.

Other observations that support the Big Bang theory are the amounts of chemical elements in the universe. Amounts of very light elements, such as hydrogen, helium, and lithium seem to agree with the theory of the Big Bang. Scientists also have found "cosmic microwaves background radiation". This radiation is known as radio waves, and they are everywhere in the universe. This radiation is now very weak and cold, but a long time ago it was very strong and very hot.

It can be said that time had no meaning before the Big Bang. If the Big Bang was the beginning of time, then there was no universe before the Big Bang, since there could not be any "before" if there was no time! Other ideas state that the Big Bang was not the beginning of time 13.8 billion years ago. Instead, some believe that there was a completely different universe before the Big Bang, and it may have been very different from the one we know today.

Nonetheless, in November 2019, Jim Peebles, awarded the 2019 Nobel Prize in Physics for his theoretical discoveries in physical cosmology. Noted, in his award presentation, that he does not support the Big Bang Theory, due to the lack of concrete supporting evidence, and stated, "It's very unfortunate that one thinks of the beginning whereas in fact, we have no good theory of such a thing as the beginning."

[[Gmail]]

CATEGORIES: Google, E-mail

Gmail is a free e-mail service that is run by Google. It can be accessed on the web, by POP3, or by IMAP. Some of the competitors to Gmail are Yahoo! Mail, Hotmail/Windows Live Mail, and Inbox.Com. The space given to any Gmail member is increased a small amount every second, and as of July 26, 2012, Google provides each account with about 10272 MB of space.

[[Astronomer]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomers, Science occupations

An astronomer is a scientist who studies astronomy. Observational astronomers work in observatories with telescopes to collect information from things in outer space such as planets, stars, or galaxies. Theoretical astronomers study the collected information, and use it to help us understand how the universe behaves.

[[Analysis]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy, Research methods

Analysis is the process of breaking a complex topic or substance into smaller parts to gain a better understanding of it. The technique has been applied in the study of mathematics and logic since before Aristotle (384–322 B.C.), though analysis as a formal concept is a relatively recent development.

The word comes from the Ancient Greek ἀνάλυσις (analusis, "a breaking up", from ana- "up, throughout" and lysis "a loosening").

In this context, Analysis is the opposite of synthesis, which is to bring ideas together.

The following concepts are closely related to this basic idea:

[[Foolishness]]

CATEGORIES: Knowledge, Basic English 850 words

Foolishness is when someone acts without wisdom or sense. A foolish decision is one made without careful reasoning or judgement. An act of foolishness is called folly. A person who shows foolishness may be called a fool. It is different to stupidity, which is the lack of intelligence.

A fool's errand is a useless piece of work.

A fool's paradise a happy state for which there is no good reason.

The wise fool is a common literary character, a person who appears at first to be unintelligent but then reveals him or herself to possess a grest deal of wisdom. An example of this is Sancho Panza in Cervantes' Don Quixote. Sancho is an uneducated peasant who at first seems to have little sense or experience. However, as the tale unfolds, he reveals himself to possess a wealth of common sense, first expressed through endless proverbs, but then through his own skill. In this sense he provides a comic juxtaposition to Quixote himself, who is highly educated but insane; both of them supply what the other lacks.

[[Aristotle]]

CATEGORIES: 384 BC births, 322 BC deaths, Ancient Greek philosophers, Ancient Greek writers, Polymaths

Aristotle (Stagira, Macedonia, 384 BC – Chalicis, Euboea, Greece, 7 March 322 BC) was a Greek philosopher. He was one of the most important philosophers in the history of Western civilization.  Aristotle probably wrote many books, but very few of those books survive. Aristotle tutored Alexander the Great when Alexander was a child.

[[Carl Sagan]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 1996 deaths, Agnostics, American astronomers, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Jewish American scientists, Jewish American writers, Pulitzer Prize winners, Scientists from New York, Writers from New York City, Emmy Award winners

Carl Edward Sagan (November 9, 1934 - December 20, 1996) was an American astronomer. He was very interested in what life on other planets would be like, which is known as SETI (search for extraterrestrial intelligence). 

Sagan was a science communicator, which meant he taught people about science. He felt like the general public was losing interest in science, so he wrote many books and appeared on television to make it popular again. He mostly talked about planetary science and topics related to space. One of his most famous works includes. Cosmos: A Personal Voyage. Cosmos was a television series about many different scientific topics, which Sagan co-wrote and narrated. It made him very famous outside the world of science. 

Sagan supported the scientific method and scientific skepticism.

[[Matsuo Basho]]

CATEGORIES: 1644 births, 1694 deaths, Japanese poets

Matsuo Munefusa, known as Matsuo Bashō (松尾芭蕉, 1644 - November 28, 1694) was a Japanese poet. He is known as the greatest maker of haiku, a kind of poetry with 17 syllables. The Japanese written language was difficult to master, but haiku was easy for him to write. Matsuo's haikus included characteristics of nature and the four seasons. The reader has to use their imagination to understand his poems.

According to Japanese custom, he is usually called Basho without his family name, and his signature as a poet does not include his house name. He signed usually "はせを". He is one of the greatest writers of the Edo period, and he raised the haiku form to its highest level.

He was born in Iga, now a part of Mie prefecture in a samurai (Japanese warrior) family. After many years of samurai life he found that poetry would be his life work, and gave up being a samurai. He started his life as a poet when he served his lord as a samurai. Matsuo became educated in classical Japanese poems. First he named himself Tosei (桃青) meaning "unripe peach in blue". Basho took this name because he admired a Chinese poet, Li Po whose name means plum in white.

He quit samurai life 1666, and in 1675 he moved to Edo, today called Tokyo. There, in 1678, he got to be a haiku master ("Sosho") and began the life of a working poet. In 1680, he moved to Fukagawa, where he had a house. This was just outside of Edo. One of his followers gifted him a banana plant (basho-an). He planted the plant and called himself Basho because it became his favorite tree in his garden.

In his life, Basho visited many places. Those travels were important for his writings. He visited his disciples (followers) and taught them by making renga, a series of haiku, with them. He also visited famous places in Japanese history. These visits made his writing much stronger.

His most famous book is Oku no Hosomichi ("The Narrow Road Through the Deep North"). This book was written after a trip. On the trip, Basho and his disciple left Edo on March 24, 1689. They went around Tohoku and Hokuriku, and returned to Edo in 1691. The trip in this book ends in Ogaki, Mino (Gifu prefecture today) with one of his haiku where he hinted that he wanted to visit Ise shrine after staying in Ogaki. Matsuo was considered to have written some of the most beautiful travel diaries ever written in Japanese.

Basho died because of disease in early autumn of 1694 in Osaka, while staying at a house of his disciple on a trip.  Before his death, he made a haiku as his last words:

[[Colonization]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Colonization is the act of one country settling another place, in order to become the new rulers of the new country, and to live in the new country. An early example is the settlers who went from the cities of Ancient Greece to start new cities.

In 1492, Christopher Columbus landed in The Americas.  This is how the Europeans learned that North America and South America were there.  The Europeans colonized the Americas.  Because of this, and the killing of many Native Americans, most people now living in North America are the descendents of Europeans.

Sometimes, science fiction stories talk about space colonization on space stations or planets other than Earth.  Some science fiction stories like The Matrix speak of the robots the human beings made, taking over, and colonizing Earth.

[[Choreography]]

CATEGORIES: Dance, Choreographers

Choreography (dance-writing) is the art of making dances. It tells dancers how they should dance and move. The word has been used since the late 18th century to mean the art of composing dance.

A person who does choreography is called a choreographer. A choreographer makes a dance based on music or a synopsis (a writing of what occurs in the dance). They may also act as trainers for professional dancers in ballet, stage shows and competitive ballroom dance. Their ideas may be recorded in dance notation, or on videos.

Choreography is also used in other types of performances. In Ice skating and Ice dancing, the choreographer designs the moves the skates does. In theater, movies and television, a choreographer is used to design fight scenes. For example, Bob Anderson designed many of the sword fight scenes in the Lord of the Rings movies as well as some of the Star Wars movies. A person who does this type of choreography is usually called a fight choreographer.

[[Electrical cell]]

CATEGORIES: Tools, Electricity

An electrical cell is a device used to generate electricity, or to make chemical reactions  by applying electricity. A battery is one or more cells, connected. This cell is also known as electrochemical cell.

[[Dry cell]]

CATEGORIES: Electronics, Physical chemistry, Batteries

Dry cells are a type of chemical cells. Dry cells are commonly used today in the form of batteries. Dry cells are used in many electrical appliances.

[[Vietnam War]]

CATEGORIES: Vietnam War, Cold War, 20th century in Vietnam, 1950s in Asia, 1960s in Asia, 1970s in Asia

The Vietnam War (also known as Second Indochina War or American War in Vietnam) lasted from 1 November 1955–30 April 1975, (19 years, 5 months, 4 weeks, and 1 day).  It was fought between North Vietnam and South Vietnam. North Vietnam was supported by the Soviet Union, China and North Korea, while South Vietnam was supported by the United States, South Korea, Thailand, Australia, New Zealand, and the Philippines. People from other countries also went to fight but not in their own national army. The conflict between communist and capitalist countries was part of the Cold War.

The Viet Cong, also known as the National Liberation Front, or NLF, was a South Vietnamese communist force helped by North Vietnam. It fought a guerrilla war against the anticommunist forces in the South. The People's Army of Vietnam (also known as the North Vietnamese Army) engaged in a more conventional war, at times putting large forces to battle.

The Vietnam War was very controversial, especially in the United States, and was the first war to feature live television coverage. It was also the first major armed conflict that the United States lost. The war became so unpopular in the United States that President Richard Nixon eventually agreed to send American soldiers home in 1973.

[[Sahel]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Africa, Biomes

The Sahel is a narrow belt of land in North Africa. It is a strip of land about 5500 kilometers long and 450 kilometres wide. It lies at the southern edge of the Sahara Desert 

The Sahel has a tropical semi-arid climate. It is between the dry desert land to the north and the forest areas to the south. The temperature is high throughout the year. There is little rainfall in the Sahel (between 100-150 mm and 600mm). It comes during summer months and may be unreliable. It may be very dry in some years, especially if a large area of low pressure, which brings rain, is not carried North over the Sahel by strong winds.

The Sahel is the Arabic word for 'edge' or 'shore'.

The Sahel is facing a big problem, desertification.

The distribution of rainfall in the Sahel region is uneven. The rainfall in the region has been below average since 1970. The Sahel is becoming drier on the whole. The problem of drought affects most of the countries in the Sahel. As a result, crops and animals die. There is no vegetation to protect the soil, which is then removed by flash floods and strong wind. This leads to soil erosion. Finally, the desert spreads towards the surrounding areas.

With better medical services, the birth rate increases and the death rate decreases in the Sahel. As a result, the population in the Sahel is growing. To meet the ever-increasing demand for firewood, a lot of trees have been cut down. More land has become barren. This is called deforestation. 

Furthermore, people farm intensively in order to grow more crops, the soil becomes infertile with a lack of nutrients. If this process continues for a long time, no crops can be grown. This is called overcultivation. 

People keep animals for food due to the lack of good soil, the animals will have to eat grass and etc. But as the animals eat the grass, they also dug up the soil. As people keep too many animals, the demand for grass is too great. Soil erosion is caused while the animals keep digging the soil up as they eat, and the wind and rain blow away the soil. This process is called overgrazing. 

Modern solutions can be used to give a better agricultural result in the Sahel. We can try drip irrigation or hybrid. We should stop using excessive water and consider our actions, to save the Sahel and lake Chad before it is too late.

[[Chemical change]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical reactions

A chemical change (chemical reaction) is a change of materials into other materials with different properties.

Chemical changes occur when a substance combines with another to form a new substance, or,  chemical decomposition into two or more different substances. These processes are called chemical reactions.

Burning of wood is a chemical change as new substances which cannot be changed back (e.g. carbon dioxide) are formed. For example, if wood is burned in a fireplace, there is not wood anymore but ash. Other examples  include burning of a candle, rusting of iron, baking a cake, etc. Special details that describe how a chemical change takes place are called chemical properties.                 

Compare: physical change. The opposite of a chemical change is a physical change. Physical changes are a change in which no new substances are formed, and the substance which is changed is the same. For instance, if a stick of wood is broken, there is still a stick of wood; it is just broken.    

More examples include changes of shape, changes of states, passing electricity through a copper wire, breaking of wood, shattering of glass, pouring of water, etc. Special details which do not change in a substance without new substances being formed are called physical properties.   

[[Physical change]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry, Physics

A physical change is a type of change in which the form of matter is altered but one substance is not transformed into another. The size or shape of matter may be changed, but no chemical reaction occurs.

All physical changes are reversible and their mass does not change. Some examples are changes of shape, changes of states, and passing electricity through a copper wire. Physical changes could be: melting, freezing, boiling/evaporating, condensing, deposition and sublimation.

Many physical changes also involve the rearrangement of atoms most noticeably in the formation of crystals. Many chemical changes are irreversible, and many physical changes are reversible, but reversibility is not a certain criterion for classification. Although chemical changes may be recognized by an indication such as odor, color change, or production of a gas, every one of these indicators can result from physical change.    

[[Ronald Reagan]]

CATEGORIES: Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, Honorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Congressional Gold Medal recipients, Recipients of the Order pro merito Melitensi, Recipients of the Order of the White Eagle (Poland), National Radio Hall of Fame inductees, 1968 United States presidential candidates, 1976 United States presidential candidates, 1980 United States presidential candidates, 1984 United States presidential candidates, Actors from Illinois, American movie actors, American radio actors, American labor leaders, American television presenters, American crime victims, American autobiographers, American conservatives, Major League Baseball broadcasters, Deaths from pneumonia, People with Alzheimer's disease, Governors of California, Infectious disease deaths in Los Angeles, Reagan family, American military personnel of World War II, Military people from Illinois, Politicians from Illinois, Writers from Illinois, Tampico, Illinois, Ronald Reagan, Skin cancer survivors, Anti-Communists, Time People of the Year, Presidents of the Screen Actors Guild, US Republican Party politicians, 1911 births, 2004 deaths, 20th-century American politicians

Ronald Wilson Reagan (ˈ; February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004) was an American actor and politician who served as the 40th president of the United States from 1981 to 1989. He was the 33rd governor of California from 1967 to 1975. Reagan was the 9th and 13th president of the Screen Actors Guild, from 1947 to 1952 and again from 1959 to 1960. Reagan was a movie, television and radio actor before he began his career in politics.

Reagan was born in Tampico, Illinois. Reagan had a successful career in Hollywood. He was in fifty-three movies. He married actress Jane Wyman in 1940. The couple divorced in 1949. They had three children. Reagan then married Nancy Davis in 1952. They had two children. Their marriage lasted until Reagan's death in 2004.

Before winning his presidential election in 1980, Reagan ran for president two times in 1968 and in 1976. He was re-elected in 1984 at the age of 73, making him the second oldest person elected president of the United States after Joe Biden who was elected in 2020 at the age of 77. He is known as the "Great Communicator" because he was a good public speaker. Reagan was also known as the "Teflon president" because any criticism or scandals against him never stuck or affected his popularity. Reagan still remains one of the most popular presidents in American history because of his optimism for the country. Reagan was the first president of the United States to have been divorced.

Reagan was inaugurated in January 1981. As president, Reagan helped create a new political and economic idea. He created the supply-side economic policies. It was later called Reaganomics. Reagan's economic policy lowered tax rates. It created an economic growth and lowered inflation. In his first term he also survived an assassination attempt. Reagan also declared a War on Drugs. Reagan ordered an invasion of Grenada to end a Communist coup.

He was re-elected in a landslide victory in 1984. During his second term, Reagan worked on ending the Cold War. He also ordered the 1986 bombing of Libya. In 1987, the Reagan administration faced a political scandal. It was the Iran–Contra affair. Reagan worked with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev during his second term. This led to the signing of the INF Treaty. It decreased nuclear weapons in the United States and the Soviet Union. Reagan left office in January 1989.

Reagan was originally a Democrat.  In 1962 he changed to the Republican party. He is ranked high in presidential opinion polls.

Reagan died on June 5, 2004 at his Bel Air, Los Angeles home from pneumonia after a ten-year battle with Alzheimer's disease. He was 93 years old.

[[United Nations]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations, 1945 establishments

The United Nations (UN) is an organization between countries established on 24 October 1945 to promote international cooperation. It was founded to replace the League of Nations following World War II and to prevent another conflict. When it was founded, the UN had 51 member, but there are now 193. Most nations are members of the UN and send diplomats to the headquarters to hold meetings and make decisions about global issues. 

The goals of the United Nations are:

[[Global]]

CATEGORIES: Geography

Global is a prefix which means that it applies to the entire world rather than any special place or people.

It is used to mean "universal".

[[List of historians]]

CATEGORIES: Historians, Lists of people

This is a list of historians.

The names are grouped by order of the historical period in which they were writing, which is not necessarily the same as the period in which they specialised.

Chroniclers and annalists, though they are not historians in the true sense, are also listed here for convenience.

[[Japanese]]

Japanese might mean:

[[Marco Polo]]

CATEGORIES: 1254 births, 1324 deaths, Italian explorers, European geographers, People from Venice

Marco Polo was born in 1254 and died on January 8,1324. He was an Italian trader and explorer. He was one of the first Europeans to explore Central Asia and East Asia. Many other explorers, including Christopher Columbus, looked up to him. He could speak four languages.

Marco Polo was known for the book, Travels of Marco Polo, where he talked about Asia.

[[Herpes zoster]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by viruses

Herpes zoster (also known as shingles or zona) is a disease in humans.  The same virus that causes chickenpox also causes shingles. The symptoms are pain and a rash with blisters. The shingles vaccine reduces the risk of shingles. Antivirus medicine can reduce the seriousness and duration of shingles if started within 3 days of the rash.

[[A Brief History of Time]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 books, Science books

A Brief History of Time (1988) is a book written by the scientist and mathematician Stephen Hawking. The subject of the book is cosmology, the story of the universe.

There are two other versions of this book: The Illustrated A Brief History of Time and A Briefer History of Time. The Illustrated A Brief History of Time has pictures to help explain its ideas. It was also updated because new information was found. A Briefer History of Time is shorter than the first version and was also updated.

This book is very popular and well-known. This book was on the London Sunday Times bestseller list for over 4 years.

[[Alexander Graham Bell]]

CATEGORIES: Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in Canada, People from Edinburgh, Royal Society of Arts, Scottish inventors, Scottish scientists, 1847 births, 1922 deaths, British inventors, Canadian inventors, Canadian scientists, British scientists, American inventors, People from Nova Scotia, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Naturalized citizens of Canada, Deaths from anemia

Alexander Graham Bell (March 3, 1847 - August 2, 1922) was a Scottish-born British-Canadian-American teacher, scientist, and inventor. He was the founder of the Bell Telephone Company. In 1876, Bell was the first inventor to patent the telephone, and he helped start the Bell Telephone Company with others in July 1877. In 1879, this company joined with the New England Telephone Company to form the National Bell Telephone Company. In 1880, they formed the American Bell Telephone Company, and in 1885, American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&T), still a large company today. Along with Thomas Edison, Bell formed the Oriental Telephone Company on January 25, 1881.

[[Heinrich Rudolf Hertz]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 births, 1894 deaths, German academics, German physicists, People from Hamburg

Heinrich Rudolf Hertz (22 February 1857 – 1 January 1894) was a German physicist. In 1888 he discovered the radio waves previously predicted by Maxwell's equations. He also proved that light is a kind of electromagnetic waves. The unit for frequency is named after him.

Hertz was born in Hamburg in 1857. He studied engineering in Frankfurt and later at the University of Munich. He completed his PhD at the University of Berlin. He taught and continued research at the University of Bonn and University of Kiel.

He died from blood poisoning in 1894.

[[1850]]

CATEGORIES: 1850

[[1869]]

CATEGORIES: 1869

[[1621]]

CATEGORIES: 1621

[[1619]]

CATEGORIES: 1619

[[1687]]

CATEGORIES: 1687

Year 1687 was a common year that started on a Wednesday when using the Gregorian calendar.

[[1822]]

CATEGORIES: 1822

[[1824]]

CATEGORIES: 1824

[[1826]]

CATEGORIES: 1826

[[1827]]

CATEGORIES: 1827

[[1815]]

CATEGORIES: 1815

[[Deep house]]

CATEGORIES: Music genres

Deep house is a type of house music. It has influences from disco music and jazz music. The BPM of deep house is usually 100 - 128. 

[[Cytokine]]

CATEGORIES: Proteins, Immunology, Cell biology

Cytokines are a group of signalling molecules made by cells. They help to control the immune system and fight disease. They are similar to hormones and, as we learn more about each, distinctions between the two are fading.

Cytokines carry signals locally between cells, and these signals have an effect on other cells. They are made of proteins, peptides, or glycoproteins. The cytokines are a large family of polypeptide regulators that are produced throughout the body by many groups of cells.

Some well-known cytokines include interferon, prostaglandin and interleukins. Cytokines can be detected using the ELISA and ELISPOT techniques.

Cytokines work by signal transduction. Each cytokine has a matching cell-surface receptor. Then cascades of signals inside the cell changes cell functions. This may include the regulation of several genes, the production of other cytokines, or an increase in surface receptors for other molecules.

[[Bristol]]

CATEGORIES: Slavery, Unitary authorities, Bristol, Ceremonial counties of England, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom

Bristol is a city and ceremonial county in England. It is home to nearly 430,000 people. The River Avon runs through it to the Severn estuary.

[[List of cities and towns in England]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of settlements in England

This is a link page for towns and cities in England. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, a town is any settlement which has received a charter of incorporation, more commonly known as a town charter, approved by the monarch. Cities are indicated in bold.

[[1858]]

CATEGORIES: 1858

[[1899]]

CATEGORIES: 1899

[[Bright Eyes (band)]]

CATEGORIES: American rock bands, Indie bands, Electronic music bands, Musical groups from Nebraska, Musicians from Omaha, Nebraska, Musical groups established in 1995, 1995 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Nebraska

Bright Eyes is an American indie rock music band. The people in the band are Conor Oberst, a singer-songwriter; Mike Mogis, a musician and producer; and other friends and session musicians from Omaha, Nebraska, USA.

Oberst's singing style and the words to the songs are called desperate or on the verge of tears. Many people think his songs are always about himself, but Oberst has said that they are not. For example, one song, "Padraic My Prince", tells the fictional story of a mother drowning her son in a bathtub. In interviews, Oberst has said that he sings about such things to make rich emotions.

[[Honeycomb]]

CATEGORIES: Bees

A honeycomb is a container made by bees out of wax that they produce. The bees make a honeycomb as a place to keep their honey. Bees make honey from nectar that they collect from flowers. After bees collect nectar from flowers, and make it into honey, the bees then put the honey in the small six sided areas of the honeycomb. Each hexagonal section tessellates with the rest. 

[[Greek language]]

CATEGORIES: Greek language

The Greek language is an Indo-European language. It is the official language of Greece (Hellas) and Cyprus.

It was first spoken in Greece and was also once spoken along the coast of Asia Minor (now a part of Turkey) and in southern Italy. It was also widely used in Western Asia and Northern Africa at one time. In Greek, the language is called Ελληνικά (elliniká).

Greeks write their language using the Greek alphabet. The Latin alphabet (used to write English and many other languages) came from the Greek alphabet. Many other alphabets around the world also came from the Greek one.

Greek has an unbroken history of being a written language for over 3,000 years. This is longer than any other Indo-European language spoken today. This history is often divided into three parts, ancient Greek, medieval Greek, and modern Greek. The years 330-1453 are called medieval Greek because that's the time of the Byzantine Empire.

Over 15 million people in the world speak Greek now.when These speakers mostly live in Greece and Cyprus. There are also people in other countries around the world who speak the language. This is largely because people left Greece and emigrated, meaning they moved to other countries. Countries like the United States and Australia have a large Greek diaspora.

[[Kamishibai]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, Entertainment in Japan

Kami-shibai (Japanese: 紙芝居) is a storytelling performance with picture cards, and is a traditional Japanese entertainment for children. In Japanese "Kami" means paper and "shibai" means drama or enternainment. The performer tells a story and shows pictures from scene to scene. Kami-shibai is a bidirectional media which is comprised of actions and reactions between a performer and audiences. With the spread of television, kami-shibai went out of date. 

[[Murasaki Shikibu]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese writers, 970s births, 1020s deaths, Japanese poets, People from Kyoto Prefecture

Murasaki Shikibu was a novelist, poet, and servant of the Imperial Court during the Heian period of Japan. She is well known as the author of The Tale of Genji, written around year 1003.

Murasaki Shikibu is a nickname; her real name is unknown. 

[[Pepsin]]

CATEGORIES: Metabolism, Enzymes

Pepsin is an enzyme. It acts on proteins in the stomach, which has a low pH because of the Hydrochloric acid. It works best at a pH of about 1.5. It will not work at a pH above 6. 

It was the first animal enzyme to be discovered. Theodor Schwann discovered it in 1836.

Pepsin is used to make cheese.

[[PH]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

pH is a scale of acidity from 0 to 14. It tells how acidic or alkaline a substance is. 

More acidic solutions have lower pH. More alkaline solutions have higher pH. Substances that aren't acidic or alkaline (that is, neutral solutions) usually have a pH of 7.

Acids have a pH that is less than 7. Alkalis have a pH that is greater than 7.

pH is a measure of the concentration of protons (H+) in a solution. S.P.L. Sørensen introduced this concept in the year 1909. The p stands for the German potenz, meaning power or concentration, and the H for the hydrogen ion (H+).

The most common formula for calculating pH is:

H+ indicates the concentration of H+ ions (also written H3O+, the equal concentration of hydronium ions), measured in moles per litre (also known as molarity).

However, the correct equation is actually:

Most substances have a pH in the range of 0 to 14, although extremely acidic or alkaline substances may have pH  14.

Alkaline substances have, instead of hydrogen ions, a concentration of hydroxide ions (OH-).

[[Tapeworm]]

CATEGORIES: Flatworms, Parasites

Tapeworms are the class Cestoda of segmented flatworms (Platyhelminthes).They are parasitic, which means that they need another larger creature as a host. Tapeworms live inside the intestines of vertebrate animals. This includes humans. When a vertebrate has a tapeworm, they may lose weight and become weaker.

Tapeworms can be up to 30 or 36 feet (10–12 metres) long. They eat by absorbing material directly through their epidermis (outside layer). The head of a tapeworm has four suckers and two rings of hooks. The body of a tapeworm is in segments (pieces that are like each other). Each segment can produce eggs. Little segments of the tapeworm sometimes break off and pass out through the stool of the host, with the eggs. Little segments of its body fall off. They go out of the host body, and are eaten by the next host, which is another type of vertebrate.

Tapeworms are hermaphrodite, with both sexes. Cross-fertilization occurs between two tapeworms in the same intestine. They have a life cycle with a secondary or intermediate host. For example, human tapeworms have cows or pigs as intermediate hosts. The 'definitive' host (humans in this case) is the one where fertilization takes place.

Tapeworms don't have a gut, so they have to absorb nutrients directly across their skin.

[[Omnivore]]

CATEGORIES: Omnivores

An omnivore is an animal whose species gets its energy and nutrients from a diet made up foods that include plants, animals, algae, fungi and bacteria.

Many omnivores change their eating habits during their life cycle. They are sometimes called "life-history omnivores", because they are only omnivores if their whole life is considered.

Some species, such as grazing waterfowl like geese, are known to eat mainly animals at one stage of their lives, but plants at another. Also, many insects, such as the beatle family Meloidae, eat animal tissue when they are larvae, but eat plant matter after they mature.

[[Herbivore]]

CATEGORIES: Animals, Ecology

Herbivores are animals that only eat plants. They are herbivorous animals. 

Herbivores (such as deer, elephants, horses) have teeth that are adapted to grind vegetable tissue. Many animals that eat fruit and leaves sometimes eat other parts of plants, for example roots and seeds. Usually, such animals cannot digest meat. But some herbivorous animals will eat eggs and occasionally other animal protein.

Some animals are frugivores because they eat mainly fruit. Browsers eat mostly leaves and sometimes small tree branches. Animals that eat mostly grass are grazing animals.

The diets of some herbivorous animals change with the seasons. In the temperate zones of the Earth, some seasons are hot and some are cold, so different plants are available at different times of the year.

Humans are omnivores, because they eat meat as well as plants. People who eat mostly plants are usually called vegetarian or vegan.

[[Hindi]]

CATEGORIES: Hindi

Hindi is an Indian language. It is the main language in India. About 800 million people speak Hindi in India. The Devanāgarī script is used to write Hindi. Previously Hindi was known as Hindui.  

Hindi is widely written, spoken and understood in North India and some other places in India. In 1997, a survey found that 45% of Indians can speak Hindi. It has taken words from the Dravidian languages of South India, as well as the Arabic, Persian, Chagatai, English and Portuguese languages.March 2013   

Hindi and Urdu were considered the same language but have evolved into separate dialects. However, to this day, both languages are mutually intelligible, meaning their speakers can understand each other without knowing the other language. Urdu, however, is written in the completely different Arabic alphabet. 

Hindi developed from Sanskrit, the ancient language of India. Hindi started to develop in the 7th century as "Apabhramsha" and became stable by the 10th century. Some famous Hindi poets are Tulsidas and Kabir.  

Dialects of Hindi include: Avadhi, Braj, Bhojpuri, Bundeli, Bagheli, Chhattisgarhi, Dogri and Marwari. 

Hindi is also spoken with regional accents like Haryanvi and Rajasthani.  Bombay Hindi is spreading because Bollywood films use it.

Hindi Diwas is an annual celebration on 14th September. It commemorates the law of 1949 that made Hindi the legal language of the Republic.

[[1870]]

CATEGORIES: 1870

[[1871]]

CATEGORIES: 1871

[[1882]]

CATEGORIES: 1882

[[1941]]

CATEGORIES: 1941

[[1945]]

CATEGORIES: 1945

1945 It is well known as the end of World War II and the founding of UNO and UNESCO.

[[Ludwig van Beethoven]]

CATEGORIES: 1770 births, 1827 deaths, Deaths from cirrhosis, Child prodigies, Classical era composers, German composers, Ludwig van Beethoven, People from Bonn, Romantic composers, German Roman Catholics

Ludwig van Beethoven (baptized 17 December 1770 in Bonn – 26 March 1827 in Vienna; pronounced LUD-vig vahn BAY-TOH-ven) was a German composer. He wrote classical music for the piano, orchestras and different groups of instruments. His best-known works are his third (Eroica), fifth, sixth (Pastorale) and ninth (Choral) symphonies, the eighth (Pathetique) and fourteenth (Moonlight) piano sonatas, two of his later piano concertos, his opera Fidelio, and also the piano piece Für Elise. Beethoven lived when the piano was still a new instrument, and when he was a young man, he was a talented pianist. Beethoven was popular with the rich and important people in Vienna, Austria, where he lived. 

In 1801, however, he began to lose his hearing. His deafness became worse. By 1817, he was completely deaf. Although he could no longer play in concerts, he continued to compose. During this time he composed some of his greatest works. He is said to be one of the greatest classical composers who has ever lived. When Beethoven died, he was surrounded by friends on his death bed. His funeral was held at the Church of the Holy Trinity. Between 10,000 and 30,000 people are estimated to have attended. Franz Schubert was a pall bearer at his funeral, even though the two were never close.

[[Roald Amundsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1928 deaths, Norwegian people, Norwegian explorers, People with foods named after them, Missing people

Roald Amundsen was a Norwegian explorer who focused on the poles. He led the first expedition to reach the South Pole and the first that could prove it made it to the North Pole. Amundsen was also the first man known to travel the Northwest Passage.

[[Christopher Columbus]]

CATEGORIES: 1451 births, 1506 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Disease-related deaths in Spain, Italian explorers, People from Genoa

Christopher Columbus  (1451–1506) was a Genoese trader, explorer, and navigator. He was born in Genoa, Italy, in the year 1451. "Christopher Columbus" is the English version of Columbus's name.  His real name in Italian was '''Cristoforo Colombo.

In 1492 Columbus landed on an island of the Bahamas, the first European to do so. His initial goal was to find a quicker route to Asia from Europe. He is credited with the discovery of the New World because his voyage started the era of European colonialism in the Americas. This was an important moment in European history. While Leif Erikson was the first European to land on the soils of America it was not well documented and did not lead to the later contact between Europe and the New World. The effects was the  bringing over of livestock, disease, crops and slaves

When the Spanish learned that Columbus had found a New World, many other people, called conquistadors, went there too.  This led to the Spanish colonization of the Americas.

Columbus died on 20 May 1506, in Valladolid, Spain.

[[GNU General Public License]]

CATEGORIES: Software licences

The GNU General Public License (GPL) is a computer software copyleft license. This license lets the user of the software use a program in many of the same ways as if it were public domain. They can use it, change it, and copy it. They can also sell or give away copies of the program with or without any changes they made to it. The license lets them do this as long as they agree to follow the terms of the license. The GPL was created by Richard Stallman. The current version is version 3, created in 2007, although some software still uses version 2, created in 1991.

There are two main terms to the license. Both apply to giving the program away or selling it. 

If the user does not agree to follow the GPL, they can still use the software under copyright laws. They can use it and make copies or changes to it for themselves, but they cannot give it away or sell it. They also can not change the license.

[[Triangle (disambiguation)]]

In geometry, a triangle is the flat shape formed by joining three points (not in a straight line) with straight line segments. A triangle is a three sided polygon.

In music, a triangle is a musical instrument that is made from a metal tube. It is in the shape of a triangle. It is open at one corner, and when it is hit with a metal stick, it makes a sound.

[[Square]]

CATEGORIES: Polygons, Basic English 850 words

A square is a type of rectangle with all sides of equal length. However, while a square is a type of rectangle and rhombus, the opposite does not need to be true.

A square is also the 2-dimensional analogue of a cube.

[[Computer hardware]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware

Computer hardware or hardware means the physical parts that make up a computer.

Some examples are:

Hardware needs software to tell it what to do. Without software, the hardware cannot be used.

[[Meat]]

CATEGORIES: Meat

Meat is animal tissue used as food. Most often is used to describe skeletal muscle and fat that is found with it. Types of meat include beef and veal from cattle, pork, ham and bacon from pigs, mutton from sheep, venison from deer, fish, insects, and poultry from chickens, ducks and turkeys. The word meat is also used for sausages and for non-muscle organs which are used for food, for example liver, brain, and kidneys.

In the meat processing industry, (in some countries) the word "meat" is to mean only the flesh of mammalian species such as pigs, cattle, etc. but does not include fish, insects and poultry. 

Animals such as members of the cat family that mainly eat animals are called carnivores. 

[[Anders Celsius]]

CATEGORIES: 1701 births, 1744 deaths, Astronomers, Meteorologists, Swedish scientists, People from Uppsala

Anders Celsius (27 November 1701 – 25 April 1744) was a Swedish astronomer. Celsius was born in Uppsala in Sweden. Much of his work was in what was later called Geodesy. 

He is more famous for developing the Celsius temperature scale when he worked on meteorology (a science about weather conditions).  It later became an the international standard.  One of his good friends Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit invented the Fahrenheit scale for the thermometer. 

[[Tuvalu]]

CATEGORIES: Tuvalu, Current monarchies, Commonwealth realms, Least developed countries, 1978 establishments in Oceania

Tuvalu is a small island country in the Pacific Ocean. In the past, it was the Ellice Islands. It was part of Gilbert and Ellice Islands. It is a monarchy.

Tuvalu is getting smaller. If the sea level keeps rising at the same rate, this country will be covered by water in about 50 years.

The most important language spoken in Tuvalu is Tuvaluan, although Nuian is spoken on the island of Nui.

The United States and Tuvalu signed a treaty of friendship in 1979, when the US  gave up their claim to Tuvalu for the islands of Funafuti, Nukefetau, Nukulaelae, and Nurakita.

Tuvalu is made up of 9 islands: 

Internet Domain name .tv

Following Tuvalu being allocated two-letter top-level Internet domain suffix, .tv, the Government of Tuvalu worked with the International Telecommunications Union and established a process to select a management partner for the domain suffix.

On 6 August 1998 a licensing agreement was signed with Information.CA of Toronto under which it agreed to pay an up-front payment of US$50 million for exclusive marketing rights to Tuvalu's domain until 2048, with the country manager/delegee of the Government of Tuvalu for the .tv extension being The .tv Corporation International, which was established in 1998. Subsequent negotiations with Information.CA followed from the delays in payment of US$50 million. Idealab, a Californian company, became involved in 1999 and assumed the $50 million obligation to be paid over 10 years. With the first $1 million payment, Tuvalu was finally able to afford to join the United Nations. Lou Kerner became the first employee of .tv when he joined as CEO in January 2000. .tv grew to over 100 employees, with offices in Los Angeles, London, and Hong Kong, before being acquired in a nine figure transaction in December, 2001.

[[Java]]

CATEGORIES: Java

Java (Jawa) is one of the islands of Indonesia.  

[[James Watt]]

CATEGORIES: 1736 births, 1819 deaths, British engineers, British inventors, British mathematicians, Members of the Lunar Society, Scottish scientists

James Watt (19 January 1736  19 August 1819) was a Scottish mathematician and engineer. He did not invent the first steam engine, but he did modify it to work better. There were other patented steam engines (such as the Savery and Newcomen steam engines) in use by the time Watt started his work on them. His major contribution is in developing the modern form of the steam engine. The Watt steam engine is credited for driving the Industrial Revolution of the 18th and 19th centuries. James Watt was a brilliant engineer and he also transformed the Newcomen engine.

Today, most people honor him by naming a unit of power, the watt, after him.

[[1267]]

CATEGORIES: 1267

[[Michelangelo]]

CATEGORIES: 1475 births, 1564 deaths, 15th century Italian painters, 16th century Italian painters, Italian architects, Italian sculptors, Italian poets, Polymaths

Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni (6 March 1475 – 18 February 1564), known as Michelangelo, was an Italian Renaissance painter, sculptor, architect, poet, and engineer. Along with Leonardo da Vinci, he is often called a "Renaissance Man" which means that he had great talent in many areas.

Michelangelo lived an extremely busy life, creating a great number of artworks. Some of Michelangelo's works are among the most famous that have ever been made. They include two very famous marble statues, the Pieta in Saint Peter's Basilica and David which once stood in a plazza in Florence but is now in the Accademia Gallery.  His most famous paintings are huge frescos, the Sistine Chapel Ceiling and the Last Judgement. His most famous work of architecture is the east end and dome of Saint Peter's Basilica.

A lot is known about Michelangelo's life because he left many letters, poems and journals. Because he was so famous, he became the very first artist to have his biography (story of his life) published while he was still living. His biographer, Giorgio Vasari, said that he was the greatest artist of the Renaissance. He was sometimes called Il Divino ("the divine one").

Other artists said that he had terribilità, (his works were so grand and full of strong emotion that they were scary). Many other artists who saw his work tried to have the same emotional quality. From this idea of terribilità came a style of art called Mannerism.

[[Leonardo da Vinci]]

CATEGORIES: 1452 births, 1519 deaths, Italian people, Inventors, Italian mathematicians, Italian architects, Italian sculptors, Botanists, People from Florence, 15th century Italian painters, Anatomists, Polymaths

Leonardo da Vinci (15 April 1452 – 2 May 1519) was an Italian man who lived in the time of the Renaissance.  He is famous for his paintings, but he was also a scientist, mathematician, engineer, inventor, anatomist, sculptor, architect, botanist, musician, and a writer.

Leonardo wanted to know everything about nature. He wanted to know how everything worked. He was very good at studying, designing and making all sorts of interesting things.

The art historian Helen Gardner said that no-one has ever been quite like him because he was interested in so many things that he seems to have had the mind of a giant, and yet what he was like as a person is still a mystery.

Leonardo was born at Vinci which is a small town near Florence, Italy. He was trained to be an artist by the sculptor and painter Verrocchio. He spent most of his life working for rich Italian noblemen. In his last years, he lived in a beautiful home given to him by the King of France.

Two of his pictures are among the best-known paintings in the world: the Mona Lisa and The Last Supper. He did many drawings. The best-known drawing is Vitruvian Man.  Leonardo was often thinking of new inventions. He kept notebooks with notes and drawings of these ideas.  Most of his inventions were never made. Some of his ideas were a helicopter, a tank, a calculator, a parachute, a robot, a telephone, evolution, and solar power.Reliable source needed for the whole sentence

[[1844]]

CATEGORIES: 1844

[[1902]]

CATEGORIES: 1902

1902 (MCMII) was a common year starting on Wednesday in the Gregorian calendar.

[[1895]]

CATEGORIES: 1895

[[1796]]

CATEGORIES: 1796

[[1879]]

CATEGORIES: 1879

[[1769]]

CATEGORIES: 1769

[[1807]]

CATEGORIES: 1807

1807 (MDCCCVII) was 1807.

[[1885]]

CATEGORIES: 1885

[[1837]]

CATEGORIES: 1837

[[Platinum]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements

Platinum is a soft, heavy, white metal. It is a precious metal. It usually costs more than gold.

In chemistry, platinum is element number 78, and its atoms have an atomic weight of 195 a.m.u.. The symbol for platinum is Pt, from Spanish platina meaning "little silver".

Platinum is very malleable and ductile, which means it can be hammered into thin sheets and it can be pulled into wire. Platinum is very stable. Acids do not affect platinum.

The most common use of Platinum is in a vehicle's catalytic converter.

[[List of rock types]]

CATEGORIES: Rocks, Science-related lists

[[List of minerals]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals, Science-related lists

This is a list of minerals.

[[Mineral]]

CATEGORIES: Minerals, Natural resources

Minerals are substances that are formed naturally in the Earth. Rocks are made of minerals.

Minerals are usually solid, inorganic, have a crystal structure, and form naturally by geological processes.

The study of minerals is called mineralogy.

A mineral can be made of single chemical element or more usually a compound. There are over 4,000 types of known minerals. Two common minerals are quartz and feldspar.

[[Craft]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

Craft or handicraft is about making things with one's own hands and skills. The different types of crafts can be put in groups according to the material being used. In the Middle Ages the most common materials were metal, wood or clay.

A craftsman is a person who has the knowledge and skills of a craft.  When they have a lot of experience they may be called a master craftsman.  If they are young people learning a craft they are called an apprentice.

[[Kim Jong-il]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2011 deaths, Dictators, Former dictators, North Korean military people, North Korean politicians, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Kim Jong-il, birth name Yuri Irsenovich Kim (according to the Soviet Union's records) (김정일, 16 February 1941 – 17 December 2011) was the Supreme Leader of Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) from the time of his father's death in 1994 until his own death in 2011. He was the son of Kim Il-Sŏng. Official North Korean propaganda said that Jong-il was born on Mount Paektu (a holy mountain in Korea); but most historians think that he was born near Chabarowsk in the Soviet Union. The North Korean laws made him permanent ruler of North Korea for life. He was sometimes referred to as the "Dear Leader", but this was not an official title. His official title was "Chairman of the National Defense Commission of North Korea", "Supreme Commander of the Korean People's Army" and "General Secretary of the Workers' Party of Korea". Many people in North Korea were imprisoned or killed for speaking out against the Kim regime. Almost everyone in North Korea wore a small pin with a picture of Kim Jŏng-Il or Kim Il-Sŏng on it.

The North Korean government told people of his death through the state media on 19 December 2011. It was said that he had died two days earlier of "physical and mental over-work".

[[Silver]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Metals, Chemical elements

Silver (symbol Ag) is a chemical element. In chemistry, silver is element 47, a transition metal. It has an atomic weight of 107.86 a.m.u. Its symbol is Ag, from the Latin word for silver, argentum.

[[Pope]]

CATEGORIES: Popes, Christian religious occupations

The Pope is the head of the Catholic Church. His official title is the Bishop of Rome. Politically, he is also the head of state of the Vatican City.  The current Pope is Pope Francis.

Popes are elected by Cardinals of the Catholic Church. Once they are elected they hold the position until they die or resign. Usually they do not resign, though; Pope Benedict XVI is the only Pope to resign in the last 500 years.  A newly elected Pope chooses a regnal name.  Everyone is told this new name when the Habemus Papam is read out. The current pope (Francis) was called Jorge Bergoglio before he became a pope.

The name Pope comes from the Greek word pappas, meaning "father". Catholics believe that when making statements ex cathedra, that is official statements teaching about faith and morals, the Pope is infallible - which means God will not allow his followers to be misled by allowing their leader to make a wrong statement. Only two of any Pope's statements have been ex cathedra. 

Popes today travel to many countries around the world preaching. The Pope is the only person in the world who both leads the church and government. Like other bishops he wears a big hat called a mitre and holds a staff called a crosier.

[[San Andreas Fault]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of California, Faults, San Francisco Bay Area

The San Andreas Fault is a right-moving ('dextral') strike-slip fault. It marks the boundary between the North American Plate on the east and the Pacific Plate on the west. The fault was the cause of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. It first appeared about 20 million years ago. 

The San Andreas Fault is a zone several miles wide with multiple strands. The main active strand runs both on and off-shore between Cape Mendocino and the Sea of Cortez. From Cape Mendocino, it runs offshore to Tomales Bay. Then it goes southward through Bolinas Lagoon, just west of the San Francisco Peninsula, to come onshore again at Daly City, through the hills of the Peninsula. Crystal Springs reservoir is formed by the fault itself. 

In the Santa Cruz mountains, it bends slightly eastward. This is the site of the 1989 Loma Prieta Earthquake. The fault continues south through the historic mission at San Juan Bautista and through the town of Hollister (where active creep can be seen to offset sidewalks and even houses). The Transverse Ranges north of Santa Barbara are formed by compression. Strands of the fault snake under the Los Angeles Basin. From there it connects into the active spreading under the Sea of Cortez.

The San Andreas fault was discovered by Andrew Lawson in 1895, who climbed into the faulted serpentinite well where the south tower of the Golden Gate Bridge was being poured. In spite of the extreme deformation of the serpentinite, Lawson declared the bridge perfectly safe. The events of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake would seem to support his conclusion: the ruptured strand was not the one he observed in the footprint of the bridge.

[[Void (astronomy)]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomical objects

In astronomy, voids are the empty spaces between filaments. Both filaments and Voids are one of the largest-scale structures in the Universe. There are no or few galaxies in voids. Most voids have a diameter of 11 to 150 Mpc. 

Especially large voids are the empty spaces without many superclusters. 

These voids are sometimes called supervoids.

A 1994 official counting ("The structure of the Universe traced by rich clusters of galaxies.", see References) lists a total of 27 supervoids with a distance of up to 740 Mpc. Some of supervoids chosen from the list are given below.

[[Computer mouse]]

CATEGORIES: Computer hardware, Data input

A computer mouse  is an input device that is used with a computer. Moving a mouse along a flat surface can move the cursor to different items on the screen. Items can be moved or selected by pressing the mouse buttons (called clicking). Today's mouse have two buttons, the left button and right button, with a scroll wheel in between the two. Today, many computer mouse use wireless technology and have no wire.

There are many types of mouse. Optical mouse, wireless mouse, mechanical mouse, trackball mouse. A computer mouse is a handheld hardware input device that controls a cursor in a GUI and can move and select text, icons, files, and folders. For desktop computers, the mouse is placed on a flat surface such as a mouse pad or a desk and is placed in front of your computer. The picture to the right is an example of a desktop computer mouse with two buttons and a wheel. The mouse was originally known as the X-Y position Indicator for a display system and was invented by Douglas Engelbart in 1963 while working at Xerox PARC. However, due to Alto's lack of success, the first widely used application of the mouse was with the Apple Lisa computer.                           

Today this device is on virtually every computer. The primary function is to move the mouse pointer on the screen. The mouse pointer can be used for many actions on the computer. Clicking or double clicking an icon, folder, or other object will open a document or execute the program. Users can also move an icon, folder, or other object by clicking a mouse button and dragging the object with the mouse pointer. Pointing to an item on the screen means moving your mouse so the pointer appears to be touching the item. When you point to something, a small box often appears that describes the item.

[[Metallurgy]]

CATEGORIES: Metallurgy, Metals, Materials science, Chemistry

Metallurgy is the study of metals. Alloys (mixtures of metals) are also studied.  There are two main branches of Metallurgy. They are physical and chemical metallurgy. A Metallurgist is individual who researches, manufactures and develops metal items that range from car parts to semiconductors.

Metallurgists and Metallurgical Engineers often work for consulting engineering firms;  mining and manufacturing companies; and in government and universities. Many metallurgists hold a Bachelor of Engineering or similar 4- year degree.

Common Job Tasks 

[[Fixed-wing aircraft]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft, Aerospace engineering

A fixed-wing aircraft is a kind of aircraft. An aircraft is a machine that can fly, but is heavier than air. Fixed-wing aircraft are sometimes called airplanes, aeroplanes or sometimes just "planes". All fixed-wing aircraft have wings that use forward airspeed to generate lift. Gliders are fixed-wing aircraft that do not have engines.

[[Aircraft]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft, Aerospace engineering

An aircraft is a flying machine. There are many different kinds of aircraft.

Some aircraft keep in the sky by moving air over their wings. Examples are aeroplanes, helicopters, and gliders. Some aircraft keep in the sky by floating.  Examples are balloons and airships.

Most aircraft use engine power. Examples are aeroplanes, helicopter, and airships. Gliders and balloons use no power.  A few aircraft use muscle power.

Big aeroplanes for transporting people are called airliners. Airliners are the quickest way to travel.  Airliners can fly over mountains and bad weather.  Airliners have complex technology to make them fly quickly, safely and for less money. 

A few fighter aircraft can fly at 3,200 km/h (2,000 mph). 

The person who drives an aircraft is called the pilot.

[[Victoria, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Victoria, British Columbia

Victoria is the capital city of the province of British Columbia, Canada. It is named after Queen Victoria. Over 350,000 people live in the Victoria area. Many people work for the government or in tourism. It is warmer than other Canadian cities in the winter, so many Canadians move there when they retire.

Victoria is on Vancouver Island. Most people travel there by boat (ferry) from Vancouver, or from Washington State. Victoria has three ferry docks and an airport, Victoria International Airport.

Victoria has one of the mildest climates in Canada, with gardens blooming year-round.

Some tourist attractions are the Butchart Gardens and the Royal British Columbia Museum. Some of the best-known buildings are the government buildings and the Empress Hotel, and both are by the Inner Harbour.

The first people to live in the area were the Coast Salish native people. People from England built Fort Victoria in 1843. Victoria became a city in 1862.

18,000 students study at the University of Victoria. Other people study at Camosun College, Royal Roads University, University Canada West, Victoria College of Art, and the Canadian College of Performing Arts. Students from all over the world study at Pearson College, near Victoria.

The Canadian navy has ships in a part of the city called Esquimalt.

Some of the parks include Beacon Hill Park, East Sooke Park, Mount Work Park, and Mount Douglas Park.

There are many flowers in Victoria; it is called the "city of gardens." It is a lot drier than places nearby, and has little snow.

Some well-known people from Victoria are:

[[Suez Canal]]

CATEGORIES: 1869 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Egypt, Canals, Buildings and structures in Egypt, Transport in Egypt

The Suez Canal (Arabic: قناة السويس, Qanā al-Suways, French: Le Canal de Suez) is a canal in Egypt. It lies west of the Sinai Peninsula. The canal is 163 km long (101 miles) and, at its narrowest point, 200 m wide (656 ft). It runs between Port Said (Būr Sa'īd) on the Mediterranean Sea, and Suez (al-Suways) on the Red Sea. It was built by a French company. The canal was started in 1859 and finished in 1869.

The canal allows ships to travel between Europe and Asia without having to go the way around Africa. This saves time and fuel. It was built for Europeans to go to and from the Indian Ocean.

[[Canal]]

CATEGORIES: Canals

A canal is a waterway made by humans. For many centuries, canals have been built as a way of transporting heavy goods in barges or boats. Canals usually connect lakes, rivers, or oceans. The Panama Canal is a famous canal that connects the Atlantic Ocean with the Pacific Ocean. Many canals are reinforced with clay or concrete on the sides.

Other canals are used for irrigation or hydropower.

[[Mars (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Roman gods and goddesses

Mars is the god of war in Roman mythology. Mars is the son of Juno and Jupiter. Mars is the father of Romulus and Remus. The planet Mars and the month March are named after him. He was the god of war, murder, and bloodshed. His Greek name is Ares. He tried many times to start wars between the gods.

[[Cessna]]

CATEGORIES: Aircraft companies, Wichita, Kansas

Cessna is a company that makes airplanes. They are in Wichita, Kansas in the United States. They make small aircraft that can hold 2 to 4 people.

[[Clothing]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing

Clothing is an item or fabric, usually sewn together to cover part of the human body.  Humans are the only animals which wear clothing, and all people do wear suitable clothing.

The torso (body) can be covered by shirts, arms by sleeves, legs by pants or skirts, hands by gloves, feet by footwear, and head by headgear or masks.  In cold climates, people also wear heavy, thick coats such as trenchcoats.

Clothing protects the human body from the hot sun and high temperatures in warm tropical countries.  Clothing such as thick wool coats and boots keeps the human body warm in very cold temperatures (such as in the arctic). To some extent, clothing protects people from damage to their body.

Clothing is also worn for decoration, as a fashion (clothing). People from different cultures wear different clothing, and have different beliefs and customs about what type of clothing should be worn.

For many people, clothing is a status symbol. It helps people project an image. Often, clothing is a form of self-expression. Adults in different social or work situations present different views of themselves by the clothes they wear. Young people have an entirely different form of dress to express their personalities. Often people will simply follow popular fashion styles so that they will fit in. Clothing is far more than just a means to protect our bodies.

[[Shoe]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Footwear

A shoe is a type of footwear. It is an item of clothing. Shoes come in pairs, with one shoe for each foot.

There are many different types of shoes. Athletic shoes, for example, are lightweight to make running, walking or jogging easier. The sole of the shoe is also softer. Shoes for formal wear are made of leather. They are worn for business and ceremonial functions. They are also worn for fashion. Slippers are a kind of indoor shoe. They are often worn when it is cold. Shoes with a high heel are called high heels. Tall shoes are boots. Rubber boots are used in wet places.

People usually wear shoes in public. They are worn for hygiene, style, and comfort.

They are usually worn with socks

[[Footwear]]

CATEGORIES: Footwear

Footwear is an item of clothing made by humans that covers and protects the foot, including the soles of the feet. Footwear allows people to walk on rough surfaces such as gravel roads without hurting their feet. Some types of footwear such as boots help to keep people's feet dry, or help to keep people's feet warm in cold weather.

[[Café]]

CATEGORIES: Food and drink, Restaurants

A café is a type of restaurant which typically serves coffee and tea, in addition to light refreshments such as baked goods or snacks. The term "café" comes from the French word meaning "coffee".

A café setting is known as a casual social environment where you can find people reading newspapers and magazines, playing board games, studying or chatting with others about current events. It is known also regarded as a place where information can be exchanged.

A café is sometimes called a coffeehouse or a coffee shop or tea shop in English, a café in French and a bar in Italian (cafe or café is the common spelling used in English, French, Spanish, et al. however the word is spelled "caffè" in Italian). It shares some characteristics of a bar and some characteristics of a restaurant given its selection of foods and beverages served, but is distinct from a cafeteria which is a type of restaurant where customers can choose from many dishes displayed on a serving line. In some countries, cafés are designed to more closely resemble restaurants whereby offering a range of hot meals and possibly licensed to serve alcohol. Most British cafés however, do not sell alcohol likely due to the prominent pub culture.

[[Jazz]]

CATEGORIES: Jazz music, African-American history

Jazz is a type of music which was invented in the United States. Jazz music combines African-American music with European music. Jazz first became popular in the 1910s. Some common jazz instruments include the saxophone, trumpet, guitar, piano, double bass, and drums.

[[Coffee]]

CATEGORIES: Coffee

Coffee is a plant (Coffea) and the name of the drink that is made from this plant. The coffee plant is a bush or tree that can grow up to ten meters (about 32 feet) high, but is usually cut shorter. Coffee plants originally grew in Africa, and now also grow in South America, Central America and Southeast Asia. They are an important crop for the economies of many countries.

The first branded coffee to be sold commercially to the public was Nescafé in 1879. The drink is made from the seeds of the coffee plant, called coffee beans. Coffee is usually served hot, and is a popular drink in many countries. Coffee contains a chemical called caffeine, a mild drug that keeps people awake.

To make a drink from coffee beans, the beans must first be specially prepared by drying the beans and then roasting. The beans are dried a short time after they are picked. This preserves them and makes them ready to be packed or roasted. Before the beans are made into a drink, they must be roasted or ground (crushed into tiny pieces in a coffee mill). When the ground coffee is placed into boiling water, the flavour and dark brown colour of the beans goes into the water. Making coffee is called brewing coffee. There are several different ways that coffee can be brewed.

Coffee contains a number of useful nutrients, including riboflavin, niacin, magnesium, potassium, and various phenolic compounds, or antioxidants.

[[Beef]]

CATEGORIES: Beef

Beef is a type of meat that comes from cattle. Beef could also include meats from other bovines. There are different types of beef. Beef is popular in the United States.

[[Hyaena]]

CATEGORIES: Hyaenas

Hyaenas (sometimes Hyenas) are mammals. They are the family Hyaenidae, in the order Carnivora. They live in Africa, and in west and south Asia. In the past they had a much wider distribution. Now there are two subfamilies with four species.

With only four species, it is the fourth-smallest family in the Carnivora, and one of the smallest in the class Mammalia. Despite their low diversity, hyenas are unique and vital components to most African and some Asian ecosystems.

Hyaena walk much like bears because their front legs are longer than their back. Hyaenas are known to have one of the world's strongest bites. Its function is to crush bone.

[[Table salt]]

CATEGORIES: Condiments, Sodium compounds, Chlorine compounds

Table salt is a mineral composed mainly of sodium chloride (NaCl). This is a chemical compound, one of many salts. Salt in its natural form as a crystalline mineral is known as rock salt or halite. 

When salt (sodium chloride) is mixed with water, the salt dissolves into the water, creating a saline solution. Salt is present in vast quantities in seawater, where it is the main mineral constituent. The open ocean has about 35 of solids per litre, a salinity of 3.5%.

Salt can be made by either evaporation or can be mined. To get sea salt, man-made holes are built then filled with sea water. The water evaporates and leaves salt behind.

[[Silk]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Fibers, Cloth

Silk is a natural fibre made by the silk worm cocoon. Silk fibres are very strong and are often used to make cloth.

The cloth from silk can be made into  rugs, bedding, or can be used to write or paint on. In the past, silk was used to make parachutes. The practice of growing silkworms for silk production is called sericulture.

Most spiders make a natural fibre of their own that is also called silk.

[[The Beatles]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups disestablished in 1970, 1960s British music groups, 1970s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1960s establishments in England, 1970s British music groups, British pop rock bands, English pop music groups, English rock bands, Musical groups established in 1960, Musical groups from Liverpool, Musical quartets, The Beatles, 1960 in the United Kingdom

See members section for others

The Beatles  were an English rock-pop band, started in Liverpool, England in 1960. The members were John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison, and Ringo Starr. Most people say they are the most successful and influential band in the history of popular music. The group were a main part of the creation of 1960s counterculture. They began as a skiffle and beat band and were influenced by 1950s American rock and roll. The later years of the band up to 1970, the band became experimental with genres such as different types of rock, ballads and even the theory of Helter Skelter and I Want You (She’s So Heavy) being the origins of metal/punk. Many bands look at the Beatles as influential with their music throughout their 10 years. 

Their main songwriters were Lennon and McCartney. Before The Beatles became popular, they played in clubs in Liverpool and Hamburg over three years between 1960 and 1963, with Stuart Sutcliffe playing bass. They went through many drummers, including Pete Best, before finally asking Ringo Starr to join in 1962. Sutcliffe also quit, meaning Paul McCartney started playing the bass instead. Brian Epstein was their manager and George Martin produced most of their music. Their first single was "Love Me Do", in late 1962. It was a hit and they became popular in the United Kingdom. As they became more popular, the press called the popularity "Beatlemania".

By 1964, the Beatles were worldwide stars and led the "British Invasion" of the United States. They brought out some of the best-selling albums of the 1960s, with twelve studio albums. They broke-up in 1970. John Lennon was later murdered in New York City in 1980 and George Harrison died of lung cancer in 2001. McCartney and Starr still make music.

[[Reincarnation]]

CATEGORIES: Theology, Cultural studies, Afterlife

Reincarnation is the name of the idea that people are born again  in another body after they die and this cycle continues over many lifetimes. Rebirth or "transmigration" is the preferred term for those believers who do not believe in eternal souls. Many Hindus, Jainists, Celtic pagans, Buddhists, and people who follow some African religions believe in reincarnation or rebirth/ transmigration. Carnate means “of flesh”, and reincarnate means to “reenter the flesh".

[[EBay]]

CATEGORIES: Websites

eBay is a website. It is a place for online auctions. Anybody can sell almost anything they want there. People can buy many things there as well.

People have to send what they sell themselves, usually using mail. Some items may be collected by the buyer such as items to large or heavy to post. Buyers can transfer the money in any way they want as long as the sellers accept payments made that way. A lot of people use PayPal to transfer the money. PayPal was owned by the same people as eBay until 2015. Margaret Whitman was the CEO of eBay from 1998 to 2008.

[[Gerhard Schröder]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Chancellors of Germany, Former members of the German Bundestag, German lawyers, Ministers-President of Lower Saxony, Politicians from North Rhine-Westphalia

Gerhard Schröder was Chancellor of Germany from 1998 to 2005.

He was born on 7 April 1944 in Mossenberg, North Rhine-Westphalia.

After school he learned retail sales in a Lemgo from 1958 to 1961.

After that he made his abitur (highest school exam in Germany) in Bielefeld. Then he studied law in Göttingen. After that he worked as a lawyer.

He joined the Social Democratic Party of Germany in 1963 and became chairman of its youth organisation in 1978.

In 1986 he became a member of the State Parliament of Lower Saxony.

In 1990 he was elected as Prime-Minister of Lower Saxony.

He became the chancellor of Germany in 1998. After elections in 2005, he was replaced by Angela Merkel. He is a member of the SPD (Social Democratic Party of Germany).

[[Melbourne]]

CATEGORIES: Melbourne, Former national capitals, Olympic cities

Melbourne is the second largest city in Australia. It is the capital of Victoria, which is a state in the south-east of Australia. The population of Melbourne is 3.7 million, second only to Sydney.

Melbourne is a multicultural city (it welcomes people and cultures from all over the world). It is famous for its trams (small short trains). The centre of Melbourne is around a river called the Yarra River. Melbourne also has many big parks and gardens and some beaches.

There are many things to do in Melbourne. Visitors in Melbourne can go to museums, look at art, eat food at restaurants, go to shops and visitors can enjoy of international events like Australian Open and Formula One both in the early year. 

Melbourne has been the winner of the Economist's  'World's most liveable city' award for the 7th time in a row (Winner from 2010 - 2017).

There is a lot of industry (factories) and commerce (buying and selling) in Melbourne. Many of Australia's largest companies and many large companies from other countries work there. It is home to Australia's largest seaport. There are a number of universities (the University of Melbourne, Monash University, Deakin University, Victoria University, La Trobe University, RMIT University, Swinburne University and the Australian Catholic University). Much of A ustralia's automotive (car) industry is there, for example the engine maker "Holden", and "Ford" and "Toyota" car builders, Although all three of these companies have announced plans to move their manufacturing plants overseas with Ford already shutting down its manufacturing plant in Broadmeadows.

[[Victoria]]

Victoria might mean:

[[Canberra]]

CATEGORIES: Canberra, 1913 establishments, 1910s establishments in Australia

Canberra is the capital city of Australia. There are 403,468 people who live there. It doesn’t belong to a state but it is in the Australian Capital Territory (ACT).

Canberra was started in 1913 and in the middle of the city is Lake Burley-Griffin .  This lake was created especially for the city.  There was a competition to design the new capital city of Australia.  The competition was won by an architect from Chicago in the United States of America.  His name was Walter Burley Griffin.  Griffin designed his triangular town as a garden town, so its size expanded over a big area. But as Canberra grew larger and larger, the lake was no longer in the middle of the town, but the people who are in charge of planning the city make sure Canberra is as close to Griffin's original plan as possible. Canberra has a size in area nearly as big as Berlin, but the number of people who live there is much smaller.

Before Canberra was founded, Australia’s two most important cities, Sydney and Melbourne, were arguing which city should be the capital of the continent. First Melbourne was elected the capital, but in 1908 there was a vote. The result: an area of 2400 square kilometers was given to the country by New South Wales to build Canberra in. This was the place, 300 kilometers away from Sydney and with a distance of 650 kilometers to Melbourne, where a few years later Canberra was built.

The name Canberra is pronounced in various ways and most commonly now as "CAN-brugh" making it sound almost an English name - Canborough !  Some say "CAN-buh-ruh" ; a small number of people may pronounce it "can-BEAR-ruh" ; at an earlier time "can-BERR-a" was very common and that form is still heard although often looked down upon as ignorant and incorrect. But while now an uncommon pronunciation it may be closest to the original name and pronunciation. In the 19th century a farming property on the Limestone Plains was named "Canberry" (or "Camberry") and some think this name is derived in turn from the name of the local tribe - the Ngambri or Kamberra or Camberri people.  (Others have suggested the name is derived from an Aboriginal word meaning "meeting place").

Canberra has an oceanic climate (Cfb in the Köppen climate classification). Due to Canberra's inland location and fairly high altitude, summers are warm to hot with frequent heat waves and droughts and winters are fairly cold with frequent frosts during the nights. Snow is only common on the mountains.

Tourists who visit Canberra come to see the many national monuments and other famous sights. Some places to visit are the Government House, Parliament House, the High Court of Australia, the Australian War Memorial, the National Gallery of Australia, the Royal Australian Mint, Telstra Tower, the National Library of Australia, and the National Museum of Australia.

[[Sydney]]

CATEGORIES: Sydney, Olympic cities, 1788 establishments in Australia

Sydney is a city on the east coast of Australia which is the capital city of New South Wales. About five million people live in Sydney which makes it the biggest city in Oceania. Sydney started in 1788, when the Captain Arthur Phillip brought the First Fleet to settle in Australia. The settlers were mostly convicts from crowded prisons in England and Ireland, with a group of soldiers to guard them. The country is home to more than 200 spoken languages with a large population of overseas-born residents.

In Sydney, there are many famous buildings: the Sydney Opera House, the Queen Victoria Building and the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Sydney has a large harbour and many beaches. The most famous beach is Bondi Beach, some other famous beaches are Coogee Beach and Manly Beach. A popular coastal walk to do is the Bondi to Coogee Coastal Walk. Famous parts of the harbour are Darling Harbour and Circular Quay.

The most famous sports ground in Sydney is ANZ Stadium (which used to be called "Stadium Australia") because it was built for the 2000 Summer Olympics. Another stadium in Sydney is the Sydney Cricket Ground (SCG). Other high-profile global events held in Sydney were: 2007 APEC Leaders Conference, 2008 World Youth Day and the 2014 G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors meeting.

Sydney has many things to see and do. These include visiting Taronga Zoo (a park for animals) on the northern side of the harbour, eating food, looking at art or watching sports (like cricket or rugby) or walking down George Street which has many nice shops. Sydney has some of Australia's best shopping, and the Blue Mountains are about two hours' drive away to the west. Many people go to Sydney City to watch the great fireworks display over the harbour on New Year's Eve. Sydney holds events throughout the year that attract tourists from around the world, some namely events are Vivid Sydney, Royal Easter Show, and more. The first people to occupy the area were Australian Aboriginals.

[[Greenhouse effect]]

CATEGORIES: Weather, Climate change, Greenhouse gases, Ecology

The greenhouse effect occurs when certain gases in the Earth's atmosphere (the air around the Earth) trap infrared radiation. This makes the planet become warmer, similar to the way it makes a greenhouse become warmer. 

The greenhouse effect is caused by greenhouse gases; the most important greenhouse gases in Earth's atmosphere are: water vapor, carbon dioxide(CO2), and methane. When there is more greenhouse gas in the air, the air holds more heat. This is why more greenhouse gases cause climate change and global warming.

The greenhouse effect is natural. It is important for life on Earth. Without the greenhouse effect, the Earth's average temperature would be around -18 or -19 degrees Celsius (0 or 1 degree Fahrenheit). Earth would be locked in an ice age. Because of the greenhouse effect, the Earth's actual average temperature is 14 degrees Celsius (57 degrees Fahrenheit). 

The problem is that recently, the greenhouse effect has become stronger. This is because humans have been using large amounts of fossil fuels, which release carbon dioxide when they are burned. Since carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, it has caused the planet to warm over the past 150 years.

About 10,000 years ago, before people started burning large amounts of fossil fuels, there were 260 to 280 parts per million (ppm) of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the atmosphere, but now there is over 400 ppm. Most scientists say that having 350 ppm or less is safe for the environment and that species on the planet can adapt to this level.  Higher levels can make severe problems for animal and marine life that are already being seen today, such as ocean acidification.

The greenhouse effect was first proposed by Joseph Fourier in 1824. Mars, Venus and other planets with atmospheres also have greenhouse effects. The effect on Venus is especially strong because Venus has so much CO2. This is why Venus is hotter than Mercury, even though Mercury is closer to the sun. The first person to predict that carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels (and other combustion processes) could cause global warming was Svante Arrhenius.

[[World War]]

CATEGORIES: War

A World War is a war in which most of the countries in the world fight or help. 

There have been two World Wars so far, World War I and World War II.  Several wars such as the Seven Years' War were fought in many places around the world, but they were wars among European countries.

After World War II, many people were scared that a World War III might start, probably between the United States and Western Europe on one side and the Soviet Union and maybe China on the other.  After World War II, countries had many powerful weapons, including jet bomber airplanes, which could carry many powerful bombs fast and far; nuclear weapons which could destroy many buildings and kill many people instantly; and missiles which could carry nuclear weapons to other countries very fast.  

Many people were afraid that World War III might start during the Cold War.  After the end of the Soviet Union, people were less afraid that World War III would begin.  However, many countries still have powerful weapons and can still use them. 

Albert Einstein is supposed to have said, "I don't know what weapons countries might use to fight World War III, but wars after that will be fought with sticks and stones". That is because World War III would probably be so large that it would destroy civilization.

[[European]]

European may mean:

[[Ionizing radiation]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear physics

Ionizing radiation is a process in physics where something sends out particles or waves that can ionize an atom or molecule through atomic interactions. 

The strength of ionizing radiation depends on the energy of the individual particles or waves, and not a function of the number of particles or waves present. The material that the radiation can ionize depends on the ionization energy of the material.

Ionizing radiation can be electromagnetic radiation or subatomic particles. 

Electromagnetic:

Subatomic particle radiation includes:

Some radiation can go through the human body and other objects. Usually when people use the term radiation, they are talking specifically about potentially harmful types of ionizing radiation. If something produces this sort of radiation, we can say it is radioactive.

There is a little radiation all around us all the time, which people's bodies are used to, but larger amounts of radiation can make people sick or kill them. Natural ionizing radiation is produced by radioactive decay of some chemical elements, such as uranium. Stars and other things in outer space also make radiation. See cosmic ray. Some isotopes that are radioactive only stay radioactive for much less than a second. Other things can stay radioactive for thousands of years. 

People and anything that lives gives off radiation naturally, because of the potassium and Carbon-14 inside. 

Some of the machines that make radiation are called particle accelerators. Scientists use these machines to make radiation so they can study it.

X-ray machines also make radiation, so doctors can see the inside of the human body and help people. Nuclear weapons (atomic weapons) use a nuclear reaction to produce massive amounts of energy, in the form of heat, light, and radiation. This radiation is spread by the dust, ash, and smoke produced by the blast.

Nuclear reactors are used to make electricity. They make a lot of radiation, but the reactors are built carefully to keep the radiation inside the reactor. But many people are afraid that if there were a problem with the reactor, radioactive material could escape into the environment, harming or killing many animals and people. Also, the parts of the reactor stay radioactive, and can kill people, for hundreds or thousands of years, so people are not sure where they can keep parts of old reactors safely away from people.

[[Click]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

Click is an onomatopoeia. It is sometimes used to indicate pressing the button on a computer mouse.

[[Buzz Aldrin]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American astronauts, American aviators, Apollo astronauts, People from Glen Ridge, New Jersey, Scientists from New Jersey

Dr. Edwin Eugene "Buzz" Aldrin, Jr., retired Colonel (born January 20, 1930) is an American pilot and astronaut. He was one of the Apollo 11 astronauts and the second person to have ever walked on the moon.

[[Tuberculosis]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases caused by bacteria, Pulmonology

Tuberculosis (TB) is an infectious disease caused by bacteria. In the past, people called it consumption.

TB is caused by several types of mycobacteria, usually Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The disease usually attacks the lungs, but it can also affect other parts of the body.

[[American (word)]]

CATEGORIES: North America, South America

The word American is used to mean a person or a thing from the United States or any country in the Americas - North America, Central America, or South America. In English, the most common use of this word is to mean a person or a thing from the United States. 

Even though the islands in the Caribbean Sea are close to the Americas, people who speak English do not usually use the word "American" for people or things from these islands. 

Due to the ambiguity of the word, some languages avoid using the word to refer to someone and/or thing from the United States and use more specific demonyms instead, such as Spanish estadounidense and German US-Amerikaner, for example. Yankee is sometimes used within the English language too (though the word historically refers specifically to a inhabitant of New England).

A Native American is someone who is mostly descended from the people who lived in the Americas before the Europeans arrived. Native Americans are also called First Nations and Indians.

There is no language "American." Some important languages used in the Americas are English, French, Portuguese, and Spanish. Some people still use Native American languages. Quechua is the largest.

[[Grain]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Grains

Grain is the seeds of some special kinds of grass. The main types of commercial grain crops are cereals. People grow different kinds of grain as food. The different kinds of grain are perhaps one of the most important foods in the world. 

Some kinds of grain are:

87% of all grain grown by farmers around the world is maize. Grains contain carbohydrates that people can eat. In poorer countries, grains are a large part of the food supply. In richer countries, they are still important as food, but not as important as in poorer countries. Growing grain uses a lot of water. About 1,000 tons of water is needed to grow one ton of grain.

Many different foods are made from different types of grain. Grain is often ground into a powder called flour. Flour can be made into breads, cakes, or noodles.

Different kinds of beer are made from barley malt, wheat, and other grains.

Tortillas are made from a special flour of dried maize (corn) called masa.

[[Clause]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar

A clause is a part of a sentence. Each clause is made up of a subject (who or what the sentence is about) and a predicate (what happens in a sentence). Each predicate has only one main verb. I love you is a sentence which has only one clause. I love you and I will always love you is a sentence which has two clauses. The two clauses are I love you and I will always love you. These clauses are joined together by the word and, which is a conjunction). Clauses may be independent or dependent.

[[Marxism]]

CATEGORIES: Marxism

Marxism is the name for a set of political and economic ideas.

The basic ideas are that:

These ideas come from the works of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels and their most notable work is The Communist Manifesto. They have had a lot of influence in many countries. Marxism influenced other political views, such as social democracy and reformist socialism. Both believe that the ideas of Marx and Engels can be achieved through what Marx called 'bourgeois democracy'.

People disagree a lot on how a Marxist society should be organized: "Marxist political economists differ over their definitions of capitalism, socialism and communism. These differences are so fundamental, the arguments among... Marxist political economists have sometimes been as intense as their oppositions to capitalism".

[[Sacred]]

CATEGORIES: Religion

The words sacred or holy are sometimes used interchangeably and are often misunderstood to mean "important" or "special"  instead of "set apart" and "pure."

According to Websters 1828 Dictionary (the more accurate definition given the spiritual context- Christian and beyond), sacred means "...separated from that which is common, vulgar, polluted, or open... or Holy." Holy, means "Properly, whole, entire or perfect, in a moral sense. Hence, pure in heart, temper or dispositions; free from sin and sinful affections. Applied to the Supreme Being, holy signifies perfectly pure, immaculate and complete in moral character..."

Most religions have sacred books that provide teachings or doctrines associated with the religion. These books are "set apart," from other books published and associated with the religion. There is a deeper connection to these books over the others.  

For Christians this book is called the Bible.  Muslim peoples have another book, they call the Qur'an. Jews call their book the Torah. Similarly, the Book of Mormon is also considered as a sacred book in Mormonism. 

Some religious people deem specific places sacred because of their mention in the sacred books. Jerusalem is seen as sacred by Judaism, Christianity and Islam. Mecca is sacred in Islam, and Ise Grand Shrine in Mie Prefecture is sacred in Japanese Shinto. In Hinduism the river Ganges is seen as holy.

[[Zürich]]

CATEGORIES: Zürich, Imperial free cities

Zürich or Zurich (Zürich ˈt͡syːrɪç; Swiss German: Züri ˈt͡syɾi) is a city in Switzerland. Zürich is the capital city of the Canton of Zürich. About 415,000 people live in the city and over 1.5 million live in the metropolitan area. This makes Zürich the biggest city in Switzerland. 

[[Translation]]

CATEGORIES: Language

Translation means to copy writing or speech from one language into a different language.

The people who do translation are called translators. A translator who is copying a book into another language may use a language dictionary to find out how a word is written in another language. A translator who works with the spoken word is also called an interpreter. Translators can work independently as freelancers or by being hired by translation agencies. People translate poetry, novels, drama, or short stories are called literary translators. 

In computer technology, translation from a programming language to a machine language is called compiling.

There are free translators on the internet.

[[Astronaut]]

CATEGORIES: Astronauts

An astronaut or cosmonaut is a person who goes into outer space. The Soviet Union and countries that it was friends with used the word cosmonaut. Western countries including the United States said astronaut. Astronauts are also called "taikonauts" in China or "spationaute" in France.

The first person to go into space was a Russian from the Soviet Union. His name was Yuri Gagarin. This happened on April 12, 1961. The first and second people to walk on the Moon were the Americans Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin. This happened on July 20, 1969. No astronauts have gone to the moon since 1972. No people have visited any other planets yet.

Astronauts used to go into space using many different ways, but now they only go on the American SpaceX Crew-1, the Russian Soyuz, or the Chinese Shenzhou. Several countries have worked together to build an International Space Station where people stay and work in space for long periods of time.

A few countries and companies are trying to make more ways to get people into space. The United States is building a very big rocket called the Space Launch System. Some American companies, for example Boeing, Lockheed Martin, and SpaceX, are being paid by the United States to make ways for people to go to space.

[[Hacker]]

CATEGORIES: Computing, Internet security

A hacker originally meant someone who likes to do new things with computers. Now hacker is used to mean "someone who tries to get into another person's computer using computer software such as Trojan horse programs, computer viruses, and worms that can hurt other people computers". The correct name for a person doing these illegal things was cracker, but many news stories used the word hacker even though it was in error. Another meaning of hacker is someone who can change or program something, like how people can change or program a Furby to say something insulting or humorous.

A person doing something illegal with a computer belonging to someone else without asking for permission from the owner is also called a hacker.

In the recent years computers were becoming increasingly more complex. This also means that people with bad intentions have more opportunities to use them for criminal purposes. Computer engineers aren't always able to find vulnerable places in the computer code. Hackers find such places, and use them.

There are also hackers who use the same skills for good purposes. Such hackers are called white hat hackers. They help computer engineers to find vulnerable places and correct problems.

A lot of skills are often required to be a hacker. A hacker should be able to find problems or solutions that most other people cannot find.

[[Broadcasting]]

CATEGORIES: Mass media

In communications, such as radio and television, broadcasting means sending information such as television shows or music electronically to a large audience.  The information is sent through the air in radio waves, through a wire, or by a communications satellite, and then the television viewers or radio listeners pick up the signal using their television sets and radio receivers.  Gugliemo Marconi invented wireless telegraphy, in December 1901 he transmitted first radio signals across the Atlantic Ocean.  This was point to point. Experiments with voice broadcasting began a few years later, and it grew rapidly in the 1920s.

[[Socialism]]

CATEGORIES: Forms of government, Socialism

Socialism is an economic and political system where the community or state owns the general means of production (i. e. farms, factories, tools, and raw materials.) This is different from capitalism, where the means of production are privately owned. 

Socialists believe that everything in society is made by the cooperative efforts of the state with the help of its people and citizens.

[[Leninism]]

CATEGORIES: Communism, Marxism

Leninism is a way of thinking about how the communist party should be organized. It says it should be a dictatorship of the proletariat (the working class holds the power). It is thought to be one of the first steps towards socialism (where the workers own the factories, etc.). It is one part of Marxism–Leninism, which emphasizes the transition from capitalism to socialism.

[[Bolshevik]]

CATEGORIES: Russian Revolution

A Bolshevik was a Russian Communist. They are also called the Bolshevik Communists. The majority of the Russian Social Democratic Workers Party was a Marxist political party.

In 1903 at the Party Congress members disagreed with each other. The Party ended up dividing into two groups, the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks. They were called Bolsheviks because it means "those who are more." Vladimir Ilyich Lenin was the leader of the Bolshevik group. The more moderate group, the Mensheviks (meaning "those of the minority") were led by Julius Martov. Although the Bolsheviks were called "those who are more", before 1917 there were more Mensheviks. Many of Lenin's opponents were afraid that he liked to control things too much.

In 1905 the Bolshevik group became a separate political party, the RSDLP(B) the 'b' in brackets standing for 'Bolshevik'. 

[[Saddam Hussein]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2006 deaths, Criminals, Former dictators, Generals, Iraqi military people, Murderers, Muslims, People executed by hanging, Presidents of Iraq, Prime Ministers of Iraq, People from Tikrit, Vice Presidents of Iraq

Saddam Hussein Revinathan (28 April 1937 - 30 December 2006) was the President of Iraq, from July 16, 1979 to April 9, 2003, when he was removed from his position during the War in Iraq led by the United States. During his time as President, he might have killed more than a million people through war and genocide, which he denied.

[[List of traditional star names]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of stars

This is a list of traditional names for stars, mostly from Arabic and Latin.

To find out more about any of these stars, look them up in the SIMBAD international database:

[[List of tectonic plates]]

CATEGORIES: Plate tectonics, Science-related lists

This is a list of the biggest tectonic plates on Earth. Including small ones, there are about a hundred tectonic plates. These are only the large ones.

[[List of oil fields]]

CATEGORIES: Geography-related lists, Fuel

This list of oil fields includes major fields of the past and present.

(Amounts in parentheses are estimated reserves, in barrels.)

[[Anarchism]]

CATEGORIES: Anarchism

Anarchism is a philosophical movement and political movement, that is against all enforced kinds of hierarchy. For example, anarchism says that the government is harmful and not needed. It also says that people's actions should never be forced by other people. Anarchism is called a libertarian form of socialism.

Anarchism is a group of ideas centered on the belief that government is both harmful and not needed. The word "anarchism" is from the Greek αναρχία, which means "without rulers", not "without rule"; it is also sometimes translated as "without government".

In the common language, the word anarchy is often used to describe chaos or anomie. However, anarchists usually do not want this. Rather, they define "anarchy" as a way of relations between people. They believe that, once put into place, these relations work on their own. Anarchists are usually opposed by the systems they wish to remove.

[[List of countries by area]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of countries

This is a list of countries by total area. The total area is the sum of all land and Inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Data is taken from the United Nations Statistics Division.

[[List of countries by continents]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of countries, Lists by continent

This article consists of a list of countries by continent, along with their capitals.

There are multiple continent classification systems in use. The first continent system is the seven continent system consisting of Europe, Asia, Africa, Oceania/Australia, North America, South America and Antarctica.

The six continent system is essentially the same as the seven continent system, the only difference being two continents are merged. There are two versions of the six continent system, one merging Europe and Asia to create Eurasia, and the other merging North and South America to create The Americas

The five continent system is applying Eurasia and The Americas together, all other continents remain the same.

Finally the four continent system is the same as the prior, however Africa joins Eurasia to become Afro-Eurasia, leaving only Oceania and Antarctica as separate continents.

The only variable in these systems is Antarctica. As Antarctica has no permanent population it isn't uncommon for it to be removed from these classification systems.

The most common system used varies from country to country.

There is no universally accepted answer as to how many countries in the world there actually are. The minimum answer is the 193 United Nations member states. However, there are many more constituent, de facto and self-proclaimed independent states that are typically added to that list. Additionally certain highly autonomous first level administrative divisions fall under the definition of the word country.

The list below follows the seven continent system and predominantly includes only U.N member states unless otherwise stated.

[[List of countries and dependencies by population]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of countries

This is a list of countries and dependent territories by population.  The number shows how many people live in each country. Countries with the most people are at the top of the list. Countries with the fewest people are at the bottom.

Also see: List of countries, List of countries by area, List of countries by population density.

[[List of oil-producing nations]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of countries

This is a partial list of states that extract crude oil from oil wells.

[[Forests in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Forests of the United Kingdom

This is a list of forests in the United Kingdom.

[[List of prime numbers]]

CATEGORIES: Prime numbers, Mathematics lists

This page contains a list of the first 120 prime numbers. It also contains lists of the first few prime numbers of different kinds.

[[List of publishers]]

CATEGORIES: Lists, Publishing

This is a list of publishers in English.

[[ΜCLinux]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems

µCLinux 'mu.'si.'lınʊks is an operating system for small computers inside integrated circuits (chips). The system is based on the Linux operating system in many ways. Apart from the rather big size of Linux, µCLinux is much smaller and not as packed with features as Linux. It finds uses in many places, mostly dealing with sensor and data-gathering of different sorts.

Thanks to its compact nature, it can easily be transferred over slow connections. Yet it is a stable and robust system distributed as an open source program.

[[UNIX]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems, Unix

UNIX is a computer operating system. It was first developed in 1969 at Bell Labs. Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, Douglas McIlroy, and others created it. They used assembly language to write it. In 1972, the Unix code was rewritten with the new C programming language. The Unix operating system is a multiuser and multiprocessing system.  This means it can run several application programs at the same time, for more than one user at the same time.  It also is able to operate well in a network of computers.  Computer security is also important in Unix, because many people can have access to it, both by using a computer directly or over a network.

Many ideas in Unix were new. Other operating systems copied them. Today, there are many operating systems that have some of the ideas of Unix in them. For this reason, some people talk about a "Unix philosophy" of doing things. Linux is one of these systems with many of the Unix ideas in it. Linux does not use code from UNIX. Linux only shares some of the ideas and the names of commands. So, Linux is not a UNIX operating system. Instead it is called "Unix-like".

There can be many different users in a Unix and Unix-like operating system. Most of them have a personal area where they can put things. This is called a user account.

One way of using a Unix system is with the command line interface. Users run commands and programs by typing text characters. This takes time to learn, but it is a very powerful and flexible way of working. It is still used by most Unix administrators. These commands are run in a shell, which can change slightly between one system and another.

A graphical user interface (GUI) is the other method. The X Window System is a very common GUI for Unix systems. The X Window System is only a shell of a graphical interface. It has many protocols. The X Window System itself does not let the user to move and resize windows. Users need a window manager or desktop manager to do that.

Some of the popular desktop and window managers are:

Like most other graphical user interfaces, they use windows, dialog boxes, support the use of a computer mouse, and are designed to be easy to use.

There are many thousands of programs available for the X Window System. Programs like word processors and spreadsheets are available including free and open-source software.

[[Signature]]

CATEGORIES: Writing, Authentication methods

A signature is a special way that people write their name to let others know that they understand or approve of something that was written. A signature is often used to sign a contract, a cheque, or a petition.

There are many ways to write a signature, and signatures may look different depending on your location. In the United States, many people have a signature which is made from writing their name in their own handwriting, often in cursive. Some signatures may be written in a different style than normal writing, which may make it difficult to read. Some people practice autographs, or fancy signatures that are hard to copy.  

Hundreds of years ago some people used sealing wax to make a copy of their signet rings next to or instead of a signature. This was called their "seal. This is where the term "seal of approval" comes from. Some formal documents still use an official wax seal, such as a coat of arms.

[[Cocoa]]

CATEGORIES: Food ingredients

Cocoa is the seed of the cacao tree. The seed contains a lot of fat and is used to produce cocoa butter. Cocoa butter is then used to produce chocolate. The cocoa which is used to make chocolate is a fine powder.

[[Ivory Coast]]

CATEGORIES: Ivory Coast, French-speaking countries, Members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, 1960 establishments in Africa

Ivory Coast or Côte d'Ivoire, officially the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, is a country in West Africa.

The capital of Côte d'Ivoire is Yamoussoukro but its biggest city is Abidjan. Other cities can be found at List of cities in Côte d'Ivoire.

[[Luke McCormick]]

CATEGORIES: British criminals, English association football goalkeepers, People from Coventry, 1983 births, Living people

Luke McCormick (b. 15 August 1983) is an English football player. He was born August 15, 1983 in Coventry, England. He is a goalkeeper. He plays for the English football team Swindon Town.

In the 2003/04 season, McCormick played when Romain Larrieu could not.  Larrieu injured his knee. McCormick played instead.  Plymouth Argyle beat Stockport County on 24 January 2004. The score was 2-0. In this match McCormick set a new club record of seven clean sheets in a row. A clean sheet is a game where the other side gets no goals.

McCormick was voted the most promising player of the 2003/04 season by Plymouth Argyle fans.

On 7 June 2008. McCormick was arrested on suspicion for killing two people by dangerous driving. Subsequently he was released by Plymouth Arygle and was jailed for seven years on 6 October 2008 but could be out in three and a half years.

[[God paradox]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy

The God paradox is an idea in philosophy. This idea is explained here:

This is a paradox because:

If either outcome were considered true, then it is argued that God Almighty is actually not almighty.

[[Libertarianism]]

CATEGORIES: Libertarianism

Libertarianism is a view in politics and philosophy that focuses on liberty. Libertarianism says that it is usually better to give people more free choice. It also says that the government should have less control over people. There are different kinds of libertarianism in both left-wing and right-wing politics.

Libertarianism grew out of liberalism as a movement in the 1800s. Many of the beliefs of libertarianism are similar to the beliefs in classical liberalism. It also has roots in anarchism and the Austrian School of economics.

[[Auction]]

CATEGORIES: Commerce

An auction is a method of goods or services can be sold and bought. In an auction, the price of an item is not fixed in advance. People wanting to buy the item say how much they are willing to pay for it. This is called bid. In each round, the bids are evaluated: If certain criteria are met, the auction is stopped and one bidder will buy the item at the specified price. Alternatively there will be another round. If certain conditions are met, the auction will stop, and the item will not be sold. There are different kinds of auctions, with different rules.

Auctions usually happen with a given timeframe, when the time expires, the bid that best matches will win, or the item will not be sold.

There are companies that specialize in doing auctions. These companies will charge fees for doing the auction; they may also get a commission that depends on the price the item is sold at.

Auctions can be done online, or they can be done offline. Sometimes, bids are placed by telephone, or over the internet.

[[Hong Kong]]

CATEGORIES: Hong Kong

Hong Kong (En-ca-Hong Kong.oga; 香港, Hong Kong Cantonese: hœ́ːŋ.kɔ̌ːŋ, literally "Fragrant Port"), officially The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of The People's Republic of China, is one of two Special Administrative Regions (SARs) of the People's Republic of China (the other is Macau). It is one of the richest and most highly developed parts of China. Hong Kong grew quickly in the decades after World War II. It is now a famous world class financial center. Hong Kong was one of the last territories of the British Empire before China obtained it and granted it special status in 1997.

The population of Hong Kong is more than seven million. The economy has rapidly grown from a trading port to a very rich city. Hong Kong also has the world's largest number of skyscrapers.

Hong Kong is divided into 3 main parts:

Hong Kong was a British colony from 1842 to 1997 because China lost the Second Opium War. After the handover, Hong Kong became under Chinese control  but with a lot of autonomy.

Hong Kong has its own constitution that is different from that of the People's Republic of China (PRC).

[[Blitzkrieg]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Germany, World War II

Blitzkrieg is a German word which means lightning war, referring to the high velocity of a lightning bolt.

In a blitzkrieg the attacking motorized infantry armies move quickly, and are helped by tanks and aircraft. Enemy slower moving units are overrun or surrounded. They are often captured with little fighting. Often the slower units become disorganized and are not yet ready to fight when they are captured. Also blitzkrieg is a way to disorganize the enemy The strategy of blitzkrieg  was developed in the 1930s. The Wehrmacht seldom called it by that name.

This method worked well, early in World War II during the invasions of Poland and France. It was mostly successful in Operation Barbarossa. Later in the war, the Allies learned to defeat German blitzkrieg attacks by defence in depth and by attacking the flanks of the attackers with reserve forces.

The Blitz refers to the German bombing of Britain, particularly London, during World War II, which destroyed over a million homes and killed over 40,000 people. The bombing was supposed to quickly destroy industry and morale (happiness). The Blitz was in response to the bombing of German cities by the British Royal Air Force (RAF). The Blitz began in September 1940 and continued until May 1941.

[[Tank]]

CATEGORIES: Tanks, Army

A tank is an armoured combat vehicle, typically armed with a large cannon mounted on a turret and a few machine guns.

A tank is covered in thick armour to protect it from enemy weapons. Tanks have tracks that wrap around its wheels to spread out its weight and let it cross rough ground. Most tanks have a powerful gun and one or more machine guns. 

A tank's crew is normally 3-5. A driver, commander and gunner are always present. There may also be a loader, who handles the ammunition for the main gun (so the gunner doesn't have to take eyes off the target). Some WWII tanks also had a separate soldier responsible for the radio.

[[Edinburgh]]

CATEGORIES: Edinburgh, Port cities and towns of the North Sea, Port cities and towns of Scotland

Edinburgh (Scottish Gaelic: Dùn Èideann) is the capital city and second largest city in Scotland. Edinburgh lies on the east coast, where the River Forth flows into the sea. 

The central part is Edinburgh Castle, at the top of a steep hill. The castle has a military display every year, called a tattoo, where soldiers show their skills at marching and competitions, and there are brass bands and bands of bagpipes.

Edinburgh has a very large festival every year, where thousands of performers come to put on shows. The Edinburgh International Festival takes place in August and September. At the same time there is the Edinburgh Fringe. The shows are of all kinds, and range from large ones with famous people, to very small ones by new or unknown actors.

The city is served by Edinburgh Airport, and Haymarket and Waverley railway stations.

[[Head of state]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of state

The head of state is the figurehead of a state, who represents the unity of the state. However, the head of state may not have very much real power.

In a modern republic, the head of state is a president, usually elected by the people or by a parliament. In a monarchy, the head of state is the king or queen. Some countries have different systems - for example Recep Tayyip Erdoğan of Turkey is both the Head of State and Head of Government which is known as an executive system. 

In a modern monarchy, the head of state usually has little real power. Instead, the most powerful person is the head of government. This is usually the leader of the political party that wins the most seats in an election. In these cases, the king is considered to be the leader of the country, but must always take the decisions that the head of government advises them to make. The king or queen carries out national ceremonies. The United Kingdom works like this, with the Prime Minister heading the government.

A president may be the most powerful person in the country. This is true in the United States. However, sometimes there is a head of government, as well as a president. The president then acts very much like a king or queen, leaving the real decisions to the head of government. The Republic of Ireland works like this. 

In older times, and in some modern countries, the head of state has absolute power, this called an absolute monarchy which the Pope in the Vatican has. 

[[Vladimir Lenin]]

CATEGORIES: Russian atheists, Russian communists, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in the Soviet Union, Marxism, Russian lawyers, 1870 births, 1924 deaths, Russian philosophers, Heads of government of the Soviet Union, Saint Petersburg State University alumni

Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov, better known as Ru-Lenin.ogg (22 April 1870 – 21 January 1924) was a Russian lawyer, revolutionary, the leader of the Bolshevik party and of the October Revolution. He was the first leader of the USSR and the government that took over Russia in 1917. Lenin's ideas became known as Leninism.

[[Disease]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Diseases

A disease or medical condition is an unhealthy state where something bad happens to the body or mind.  Diseases can cause pain, parts of the body to stop working the right way, or death. The word disease is sometimes used to include:

[[Carbon]]

CATEGORIES: Carbon

Carbon is a very important chemical element, with a chemical symbol of C. All known life on Earth needs it. Carbon has atomic mass 12 and atomic number 6.  It is a nonmetal, meaning that it is not a metal.

When iron is alloyed with carbon, hard steel is formed. Carbon in the form of coal is an important fuel.

[[Zaza language]]

CATEGORIES: Zazaki, Iranian languages

Zaza language, also called Zazaki, Kirmanjki and Dimli, is an Indo-European language spoken in eastern Anatolia above the rivers Euphrates and Tigris. It belongs to the northwest-Iranian group of Iranian language. The Zaza language is related to Sangsarī, Māzandarānī, Tātī (Herzendī), Semnānī, Tāleshī, Kurdish, Persian and Balōchi. The number of Zaza speakers is not known exactly.

[[Chemical reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

A chemical reaction happens when one or more chemicals are changed into one or more other chemicals. Examples:

Some reactions are fast, and others are slow. Some happen at different speeds, depending on temperature or other things. For example, wood does not react with air when it is cold, but if it is made hot enough, it will start to burn. Some reactions give out energy. These are exothermic reactions. In other reactions, energy is taken in. These are endothermic reactions.

Nuclear reactions are not chemical reactions. Chemical reactions involve only the electrons of atoms; nuclear reactions involve the protons and neutrons in the atomic nuclei.

[[Rectangle]]

CATEGORIES: Polygons

In geometry, a rectangle is a shape with four sides and four corners. The corners are all right angles. It follows that the pairs of sides opposite each other must be parallel and of the same length.

People make many rectangular things, including most tables, boxes, books, and papers. The word comes from Latin words meaning "right" and angle".

A rectangle whose four sides have the same length is called a square.

[[Trafalgar Square]]

CATEGORIES: Roads in London, National squares

Trafalgar Square is in the heart of London.  It is a large pedestrian square, bounded on three sides by roads. It serves as a refuge, and a major traffic intersection. Important roads go from the square: Whitehall goes to Parliament, the Mall goes to Buckingham Palace, and the Strand goes to the City of London. The square is also close to Covent Garden and Charing Cross station.

More than 15 million people go to visit there every year. It contains a large statue of Admiral Lord Nelson. The square celebrates the Battle of Trafalgar, fought in 1805. It contains Nelson's Column, a statue of Nelson mounted on a tall column, with four statues of lions around it. The column is 56 meters tall while the statue is 5 meters tall. The National Art Gallery is one of several important buildings facing the square.

[[Official language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages, Vocabulary

An official language is a language that has special status in a country or other organization. Usually, the government does its business in the official language. They are sometimes named in a country's constitution.

Some countries, like Switzerland and Luxembourg, have more than one official language. Other countries, such as the United States and Australia, may not have a de jure official language set by law, but they may have one or more national languages that is considered de facto official because it is used by the government and people in the country.

An official language does not have to be a written language. It can be a pidgin language (like in Papua New Guinea), or a sign language (like in New Zealand).

[[Cake]]

CATEGORIES: Cakes, Basic English 850 words

A cake is a type of (usually) sweet dessert which is baked. Originally, it was a bread-like food, but no longer. Cakes are often made to celebrate special occasions like birthdays or weddings. There are many kinds of cakes. It can be baked in an oven. Some savory cakes are made on a griddle or a frying pan.

[[House]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Houses

A house is a building that is made for people to live in.  It is a "permanent" building that is meant to stay standing.  It is not easily packed up and carried away like a tent, or moved like a caravan.  If people live in the same house for more than a short stay, then they call it their "home".  Being without a home is called homelessness.

Houses come in many different shapes and sizes. They may be as small as just one room, or they may have hundreds of rooms. They also are made many different shapes, and may have just one level or several different levels. A house is sometimes joined to other houses at the sides to make a "terrace" or "row house" (a connected row of houses).

A big building with many levels and apartments is called "a block of flats" (British) or an apartment building. One of the differences between a house and an apartment is that a house has a front door to the outside world, whereas the main door of an apartment usually opens onto a passage or landing that can be used by other people in the building.

Houses have a roof to keep off the rain and sun, and walls to keep out the wind and cold. They have window openings to let in light, and a floor. Houses of different countries look different to each other, because of different materials, climate, and styles.

[[Gigabyte]]

CATEGORIES: Computing measurement

A gigabyte (GB), sometimes abbreviated as a gig, is a unit of measurement in computers and similar electronic devices. At first it meant exactly 1 billion bytes, usually referring to the number of bytes in a computer hard drive. Its meaning gradually changed over time, so that today it is often used to mean 1,073,741,824 (230) bytes, especially when referring to the random access memory (RAM) of a modern computer. Now international standards bodies say a gigabyte should only be used to mean exactly 1 billion bytes, and that gibibyte is a better name for 1,073,741,824 bytes. In everyday use, people use gigabyte to mean 1,073,741,824 bytes when talking about computer memory and 1,000,000,000 bytes when talking about computer disk space.

One thousand gigabytes make one terabyte.

[[Sailor]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations, Water transport, Sailing, Navy

A sailor (or seaman) is a person who works at sea on a boat or ship. The sailor works under a captain. The term is only used when the person is working professionally (earning money or make a living).

Sailor is also the lowest rank in a navy.

[[Farmer]]

CATEGORIES: Agricultural occupations

A farmer is a person who grows crops and raises animals to be used as food. This has been a common job for people since the beginning of civilization.

[[Constellation]]

CATEGORIES: Constellations

A constellation is a group of stars which make up imaginary outline or pattern in the night sky (the celestial sphere). Usually they are said to represent an animal, mythological person or creature in a shape. When seen, the group of stars seem to make a pattern. 

The word constellation comes from Latin: con-, meaning together and stella- meaning stars. Some examples of constellations are Ursa major, Orion, Leo, Draco, Cancer etc.  

People used constellations to tell the difference in the colors.  Constellations were also used to group stars.  Different places in the world may have different constellations, but today astronomy has a fixed set of 88 constellations.  This set is based on the Greek set and later some southern constellations were added, for example Antlia - the air pump.  Most constellations have names that come from Greek mythology, like Orion or Andromeda.

There are 12 constellations in the Zodiac. The Sun travels through the Zodiac once each year. There is also a thirteenth constellation Ophiuchus - the carrier of a serpent, which the Sun goes through. However, most people do not think that it is in the Zodiac.

[[Flood]]

CATEGORIES: Floods

A flood is an overflow of water on normally dry ground. This is most commonly due to an overflowing river, a dam break, snowmelt, or heavy rainfall. Less commonly happening are tsunamis, storm surge.

The most deadly flooding was in 1931 in China and killed between 2,000,000 and 4,000,000 people. The Kerala flood in India was another flood that has destroyed people's houses.

During a flood, people try to move themselves and their most precious belongings to higher ground quickly. The process of leaving homes in search of a safe place is called a flood evacuation.

[[Hell]]

CATEGORIES: Afterlife, Religion

In many mythologies and religions, Hell or the Underworld is a place where souls (minds, separated from material body) of wicked people go after their life on Earth end. It is a virutalized reality which accommodates the quantum mind which is administered by either God, the creator of all Life and Heaven (which is like Hell a virtual reality place where souls go, but is pleasant has human beauty truth and honor), and Earth, or by some underling deity, assigned to being the warden for beings in Hell. It is often thought of as the opposite of Heaven, and a place where no love is. In many religions, Hell is the place where the souls of dead people go if they have done evil things in life. It is used in the Old Testament to translate the Hebrew word for "the grave", Sheol, and in the New Testament the Greek ᾅδης, Hades, and γεέννα, Hebrew Gehenna.

[[October 21]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[112 (emergency telephone number)]]

CATEGORIES: European Union, Emergency phone numbers

The telephone number 1-1-2 (or 112) is the standard European Union (EU) emergency telephone number, it works in every country of the EU, for land lines and mobile phones. It is also used in some other countries as an emergency telephone number for both mobile and fixed-line telephones.

112 is also the international emergency telephone number for all GSM mobile phone networks. It does not necessarily work on other mobile phone technologies outside the EU.

[[Government-in-exile]]

CATEGORIES: Governments in exile

A government-in-exile is a group of people who claim they are the real government of a country, but who live in another country. These were common during World War II. The Germans took over several countries, and the leaders of those countries went to England for refuge.

Today, there are some governments-in-exile. They include:

Few countries recognize (accept) these groups.

[[Stonehenge]]

CATEGORIES: Prehistoric buildings and structures, Buildings and structures in England, Religious buildings, Wiltshire, Archaeological sites in Wiltshire, World Heritage Sites in the United Kingdom, Stone circles, Henges, Neolithic

Stonehenge is a prehistoric World Heritage Site of megaliths eight miles (13 kilometers) north of Salisbury in Wiltshire, England. It is made of a henge, with standing stones in circles. 

Stonehenge was built between 3100 and 1550 BC about 8 miles (13 km) north of Salisbury, England. It is a circular group of huge, erect stones. Stonehenge is probably the most important prehistoric monument in the whole of Britain and has attracted visitors from very early times. There were three main periods of building: the first period beginning around 3100 BC included the digging of a circular ditch and a ring of 56 pits, known as Aubrey Holes. In the second period, around 2100 BC, huge pillars of rocks were brought from Southwestern Wales and erected into concentric circles around the centre of the site. The double circle was never completed and was dismantled during the following period. The monument was remodelled in the third period. A circle of 30 upright stones weighing up to 50 tons each was erected and capped by ring of stone lintels. These enclosed a horseshoe-shaped  formation of five pairs of upright stones, each pair capped with a stone lintel. This final phase of building probably ended before 1500 BC. Scientists believe that early people were able to foretell eclipses of the sun and the moon by the positions of these celestial bodies in relation to the stone monument. The site may have served as an observatory where early rituals or religions ceremonies took place on specific days on the year.  

There were three main building phases, each between about 3100 BC and 1950 BC. The first circle, ~3000 BC, was made of timber. The post holes for the timber have been found. Around 2600 BC, the builders gave up timber in favour of stone. Most of the construction took place between 2640 and 2480 BC. Scientists have discovered that the Stonehenge builders originated from modern day Turkey from DNA analysis.

[[Granite]]

CATEGORIES: Igneous rocks

Granite is a kind of igneous rock, found on Earth but nowhere else in the Solar System. It is formed from hot, molten magma. Its colour can be dark or light grey, brown, or even pink, according to the proportions of its minerals.

The magma is forced between other layers of rock by the pressure under the Earth's surface. The magma cools and turns slowly into solid stone. Granite has many different types of minerals in it. These include quartz, feldspar,  hornblende, and sometimes mica. As the magma cools, these minerals form crystals. The crystals can be seen easily if the granite is cut and polished.

Granite is a common stone on Earth, and makes up a big part of the crust (the Earth's outer layer). It is usually found in the continental plates of the Earth's crust. Although it forms under the surface of the Earth, there are many places where it has been forced upwards by tectonic movement. When plates in the Earth's crust move together, they get bent and pushed upwards. When this happens, granite mountains can be formed.

[[1970]]

CATEGORIES: 1970

1970 (MCMLXX) was 1970.

[[Syracuse, New York]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in New York, Syracuse, New York

Syracuse is a city in the U.S. state of New York with a population of 147,306 in 2000, and a metropolitan area population of 732,117. It is often called the "Salt City" because salt used to be the main industry. Today, Syracuse is mostly known as a university city, but many companies have offices there, also.

[[Syracuse]]

Syracuse might mean:

[[Soap opera]]

CATEGORIES: Soap operas, Television genres

A soap opera is a television or radio program that airs in episodic series. This means that each episode continues telling a story, which, in turn, tells more of the last episode's story. A single story on a soap opera can be told for weeks, months, or sometimes even years.

In America, each soap opera airs every day, Monday through Friday, in the afternoon. Because they air at this time, they are sometimes called daytime serials. In the U.K. and other countries, the soap operas air in the evening, twice or three times a week.

This is a list of soap operas that air in America, in their current order of popularity:

There are still two soap operas that air in Australia, Network Ten's Neighbours and the Seven Network's Home and Away. Strangely, Neighbours is more popular in England than it is in Australia.

In the U.K., the most popular soap operas are Coronation Street and EastEnders. Coronation Street is about people who live in Manchester, in the northern part of England. EastEnders is about people who live in an imaginary place called Albert Square in the East End of London. Another popular soap opera is Emmerdale, and it is about people who live in a small village in Yorkshire, also in the northern part of England. In the 1970s Crossroads became the most watched soap in England. It was shown from 1964 to 1988.

In Latin America (including Brazil) and Portuguese-speaking countries in Africa (like Angola), soap operas are called telenovelas.

[[The Young and the Restless]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 television series debuts, 1970s American television series, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, 2000s American television series, 2010s American television series, American soap operas, Television series set in Wisconsin, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

The Young and the Restless is a very popular American soap opera. The show is the highest-rated soap opera, which means that more people watch it than any other soap opera. It aired its first episode on March 26, 1973. It is set in fictional Genoa City, Wisconsin. In the beginning, the show was about the Brooks family, who were very rich, and the Foster family, who were poor. Today, very few members of either family are still on the show.

Today, the show tells stories about two cosmetics companies: Newman Enterprises and Jabot Cosmetics. Newman's president is Victor Newman (played by the actor Eric Braeden) and Jabot's president is Jack Abbott (played by Peter Bergman). These two men hate each other very much and would like to see the other fail. This hatred is the root of much of the story on the show.

[[Georgia (U.S. state)]]

CATEGORIES: Georgia (U.S. state), 1788 establishments in the United States

Georgia is a state in the southeastern part of the United States. It is bordered by Florida to the south, Alabama to the west, Tennessee and North Carolina to the north, and South Carolina to the east. All of Georgia's coastline is on the Atlantic Ocean. The ocean borders Georgia to the southeast.

Georgia was established in 1732 and became a state in 1788. It was the last of the original 13 colonies and eventually joined in the growing rebellion against Britain. Georgia was named after George II of Great Britain.

African Americans were enslaved in the state.

[[Prem Rawat]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Religious leaders, Indian people

Prem Pal Singh Rawat (previously known as Maharaji, also known as Guru Maharaj Ji and Balyogeshwar) was born in India on December 10, 1957. Rawat is a self-help guru who teaches inner peace by the use of what he calls "self-knowledge". 

His father was a spiritual master, guru (or teacher of religious matters) in India for three million people. Prem Rawat took over at the age of eight when his father died. He went to England and the United States when he was 13 years old in 1971. 

He got married when he was 16 years old. In 1975, he had a fight with his mother and brother. They took over in India while Prem Rawat took over in America and the West. Now he lives in California. He shares self-knowledge for free, to help those interested to find inner peace.

Prem Rawat founded "The Prem Rawat Foundation", a nonprofit organization, to address the fundamental human needs of food, water, and peace. 

[[Immanuel Kant]]

CATEGORIES: 1724 births, 1804 deaths, 18th century philosophers, 19th century philosophers, Continental philosophers, German academics, German philosophers, German writers, People from former German territories, People from Kaliningrad, People from Prussia

Immanuel Kant (22 April 1724 – 12 February 1804) was a German philosopher. He was born in Königsberg, East Prussia, and also died there. Kant studied philosophy in the university there, and later became a professor of philosophy. He called his system "transcendental idealism". Kant's thorough writing about epistemology, metaphysics, ethics, and aesthetics have made him one of the most influential figures in the history of philosophy.

Today the town Königsberg is part of Russia, and is renamed Kaliningrad. When Kant was alive, it was the second largest city in the kingdom of Prussia. 

[[Aunt]]

CATEGORIES: Family

An aunt is relationship that describes a woman who is a sibling of a parent or is married to a sibling of a parent. Aunts are sometimes called Auntie or Aunty. A man is a nephew to their Aunt and a woman is a niece. An aunt is part of an extended family. The child of an aunt's is a cousin. Often the word aunt is used with people who are not related to show closeness or respect.

In many cultures there are different words to describe a person's mother's sister and father's sister. In Latin a mother's sister is matertera while a father's sister is amita.

[[Homer]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek poets

Homer is the name of the Greek poet who wrote the epic poems the Iliad and the Odyssey. These are the earliest works of Greek literature which have survived to the present day, and are among the greatest treasures of the ancient world. They are a product of Mycenaean culture. The Iliad tells the story of the Trojan war, which took place around 1190 BC. The manuscripts of Homer were written much later, probably later than 800 BC.

[[Marquis de Sade]]

CATEGORIES: 1740 births, 1814 deaths, Bisexual people, French criminals, French LGBT people, French novelists, French prisoners, LGBT criminals, LGBT writers, Sex offenders, Writers from Paris

Donatien Alphonse François, Comte de Sade, (2 June 1740 – 2 December 1814), better known as the Marquis de Sade) was a French nobleman, writer and philosopher who was born in Paris. The de Sade family were French nobility, who came from Provence. Different members of the house held positions in the Church, and the French state at different times.

Once Donatien had grown up, he had troubles with the authorities several times. He was bisexual. He spent many years in prison and at a mental asylum.

The main points he was accused of were:

On one of his escapades, he "accidentally" raped a close relative of his, who was a nun. This caused his family to drop him, and to hand him over to the authorities.

For this, he was sentenced to death (while being absent). He later escaped the death penalty by moving to Italy.  The death penalty against him was later changed to a prison sentence.

In prison, he started to read about philosophy. He also started to write down his ideas. He tried to hide his writing, and also wrote in a very small print, so that the consumption of paper would not be noticed.

In later years, he was moved to an asylum (for the mentally ill), and gave his wife the possibility of a divorce.

After the French Revolution, he got out of the asylum, but in 1803 was declared mentally ill (and again was sent to the asylum). He died in the asylum in Val-de-Marne in 1814 at the age of 74.

The term 'sadism' was named after him. It refers to the habit of getting pleasure from giving pain.

[[Eurozone]]

CATEGORIES: European Union

[[Ordinal number]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory

Ordinal numbers (or ordinals) are numbers that show something's order, for example: 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th.

Suppose a person has four different T-shirts, and then lays them in front of the person, from left to right.

If the person then starts counting the shirts from the left, he would first see the red shirt. So the red shirt is the first T-shirt. The blue shirt is the second T-shirt. The yellow shirt is the third one, and the orange T-shirt is the fourth one.

The first, second, third, and fourth in this case are ordinal numbers. They result from the fact that the person has many objects, and they give them an order (hence 'ordinal'). The person then simply counts those objects, and gives the ordinal numbers to them.

[[Gnome]]

The word Gnome can mean different things:

[[Republic]]

CATEGORIES: Forms of government

A republic is a form of government that has no monarchy and no hereditary aristocracy. It originates from Rome. In 509 BC, the Romans overthrew the Roman Kingdom and established a republic, a government in which citizens elected representatives to rule on their behalf.

National sovereignty lies in the authority of the government, not in an emperor or monarch. The word republic comes from the Latin words res publica,  meaning a "public thing". For example, the United States and India are republics, but North Korea and Cuba are also called republics. However, the United Kingdom and Canada are not republics since they have a monarch (Queen Elizabeth II in both cases).

Countries with a king or other monarch and free elections is called a constitutional monarchy, not republics. A constitutional monarchy resembles a republic because the constitution has been amended to remove power from the monarch and install institutions conforming to a philosophy of republicanism. That includes the United Kingdom and the other Commonwealth realms, the Netherlands, Thailand, and countries in Scandinavia and elsewhere. What makes a republic different is that its laws are made and enforced without royal authority.

The head of state in a republic is generally a person who has been chosen by the citizens by direct election or by a group of elected representatives to act as the top representative of the people. In most republics, the head of state is called the president. In some countries, the president is elected and has a lot of political power. In others, the president does not hold much direct power but is important in the legal system for other reasons.

Sometimes, state is called a "republic" when its head is not called a "king". For example, the Roman Empire had an "emperor" and the Dutch Republic had a "stadholder", but they worked as hereditary monarchs.

Licchavi, in India, was the first republic in the 6th and 5th centuries BCE. The earliest republics that were much imitated later were Greek cities, for example democracy in Athens. The biggest difference from the other city-states was that people chose their leaders by voting or by lottery. 

[[Martin Luther]]

CATEGORIES: 1483 births, 1546 deaths, Martin Luther, Bible translators, Christian theologians, German academics, German Lutherans, German theologians, Monks, People excommunicated by the Catholic Church, People from Saxony-Anhalt, Protestant Reformers

Martin Luther (10 November 1483 in Eisleben - 18 February 1546 in Eisleben) was a German monk and theologian of Christianity. He is credited with starting the Protestant Reformation. As this happened, what are now called Protestant churches split from the Roman Catholic church. He started the Lutheran Church, the first Protestant church.

[[Noh]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, Theatrical forms, Entertainment in Japan

Noh or No (Japanese:能 Nō) is a major form of classical Japanese musical drama. It started in the 14th century and continues today. Noh is made up of mai (dances), hayashi (music) and utai (words usually in songs). The performers use masks and dance slowly. Zeami and his father Kan'ami brought Noh to its present-day form during the Muromachi period. 

[[Manga]]

CATEGORIES: Manga, Comic books

A manga (漫画) is a Japanese comic book. 

Manga is drawn by a mangaka (漫画家) (Japanese for cartoonist: an artist of comics). Manga is usually read from right to left. 

The word manga can be both singular and plural, and mean both the medium of comics or a single comic. It is a form of art that is used to draw comics and develop Anime (animated cartoons of manga art). Colors and symbols are important.

[[Spree]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Berlin, Geography of Brandenburg, Geography of Saxony, Rivers of Germany

The Spree is a river in the north-east of Germany.

It runs through the centre of Berlin. The river is 400 long.

[[Liberalism]]

CATEGORIES: Liberalism

Liberalism is a way of thinking about politics and government. 

[[Zeno's paradoxes]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Philosophical problems, Logical paradoxes

Zeno's paradoxes are a famous set of thought-provoking stories or puzzles created by Zeno of Elea in the mid-5th century BC. Philosophers, physicists, and mathematicians have argued for 25 centuries over how to answer the questions raised by Zeno's paradoxes. 

Nine paradoxes have been attributed to him. Zeno constructed them to answer those who thought that Parmenides's idea that "all is one and unchanging" was absurd. Three of Zeno's paradoxes are the most famous: two are presented below. They all deal with problems of the apparently continuous nature of space and time.

[[Mandrake]]

CATEGORIES: Nightshades

Mandrake is the common name of a number of plants in the Nightshade family, genus Mandragora. The roots often look like man or woman, or can be easily made to resemble them. The plant has been used in witchcraft for a long time. 

According to this literature, the plant shrieks in pain, when it is pulled from the ground. This shriek is able to make a person deaf. He might also lose his mind, or even be killed, if he is unprotected. 

Mandrake (Mandragora officinalis) has been used as an anaestethic for a long time. For this, it was usually prepared in an  alcoholic solution.

[[Debian]]

CATEGORIES: Linux distributions, Debian, X86-64 Linux distributions

Debian is a free operating system. It is a distribution of an operating system known as the GNU operating system, which can be used with various kernels, including Linux, kFreeBSD, and Hurd. In combination with these kernels, the operating system can be referred to as Debian GNU/Linux, Debian GNU/kFreeBSD, and Debian GNU/Hurd, respectively. Debian GNU/Linux is one of the most complete and popular GNU/Linux distributions, on which many others, like Ubuntu, are based.

[[GNU]]

CATEGORIES: Operating systems, GNU project

GNU is the name of a computer operating system. The name is short for ''GNU's Not Unix. Richard Stallman leads the project working on GNU, known as the GNU Project. It was created to replace the UNIX operating system with all free and open source software. The popular Linux operating systems made using Linux kernel include a large number of GNU tools. Due to this reason, many projects and developers call the Linux based operating systems GNU/Linux.''

The GNU project was started by Richard Stallman in 1983. His aim was to create a computer system fully free to modify, share and publish modified work. He and a group of developers started with creating copies, of each piece of Unix software, which are free to modify and share. The remaining part of GNU was the kernel, called the GNU Hurd, which is not yet completely built. The more popular Linux kernel is used instead. Linux vs. Unix or BIOS

[[Serbia]]

CATEGORIES: Serbia, European Union candidate states, 2006 establishments in Europe

The Republic of Serbia (Serbian: Република Србија / Republika Srbija), or usually just Serbia (Serbian: Србија / Srbija), is a country in Central Europe. The capital city is Belgrade. To the north of Serbia is the country Hungary. To the east of Serbia are the countries Bulgaria and Romania. To the south of Serbia are countries North Macedonia and Kosovo. To the west of Serbia are the countries Montenegro (the country that was once united with Serbia), Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia.

[[Cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Cancer is a type of disease where cells grow out of control, divide and invade other tissues.  In a person without cancer, cell division is under control. In most tissues, healthy cells divide in a controlled way and copy themselves to create new healthy cells.  With cancer, this normal process of cell division goes out of control. Cells change their nature because mutations have occurred in their genes. All the daughter cells of cancer cells are also cancerous.

If the abnormal cells do not invade, but just divide and swell up their original tissue, this is not called "cancer". It is called a tumour. Tumours are usually not a threat to life because they can be cut out. However, some tumours occur in places where they cannot be cut out, and they can be fatal. Some brain tumours are of this type.

The symptoms of cancer are caused by the cancerous cells invading other tissues. This is called metastasis. Metastasis is a process in which cancer cells move through the bloodstream or lymphatic system. When this happens, a person's cancer can be spread throughout his or her body. Eventually those other tissues cannot work as well, and the whole body begins to get worse, and may die.

Cancer can affect anybody at any age. Most types of cancer are more likely to affect people as they get older. This is because as a person's DNA gets older, their DNA may become damaged, or damage that happened in the past may get worse.  One type of cancer that is more common in young men, rather than older people, is testicular cancer (cancer of the testicles).

Cancer is one of the biggest and most researched causes of death in developed countries. The study of cancer and its treatment is called oncology.

[[Photography]]

CATEGORIES: Photography

Photography is a way of making a picture using a camera. A person who makes pictures using a camera is called a photographer. A picture made using a camera is called a photograph or photo. Photography became popular in the middle 19th century with Daguerreotype. Later wet plate and dry plate methods were invented. Most photography in the 20th century was on photographic film and most in the 21st uses digital cameras.

[[Acronym]]

CATEGORIES: Acronyms

An acronym is a word whose letters are the first letters of other words. People often create a short acronym that means the same thing as a much longer phrase (set of words).  This is faster and shorter to say then the long phrase.  

Examples of acronyms are:

An acronym usually must be able to be spoken as word. Other abbreviations such as ASAP (as soon as possible), USA (the United States of America), ECU (European Currency Unit), FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation), NBA (National Basketball Association) have combinations of letters that are not pronounced as a single word. People just say the letters, one after another.  

These three-letter acronyms, and some more obscure four-letter ones such as ISDN are more often called initialisms.

The word "acronym" comes from the Greek acro ‘extreme’ and onymus ‘name’.

[[Radio wave]]

CATEGORIES: Wave physics, Radio technology, Electromagnetic radiation

Radio waves make up part of the electromagnetic spectrum. These waves are packets of energy with differing wavelengths, similar to visible light waves, X-rays or gamma rays, except longer.

A radio wave, like other electromagnetic waves, is similar to an ocean surface wave or any other type of wave.  Both types of wave have a hill and valley shape, repeating over and over.  A wavelength is measured as the distance from the top of one crest to the top of its neighboring crest. While the wavelength of visible light is very very small, less than one micrometer and much less than the thickness of a human hair, radio waves can have a wavelength from a couple centimeters to several meters. They also have a radio frequency.

The smallest radio waves are called microwaves.  Shortwaves are not quite so small.  There are also medium and long waves. Antennas designed to send and receive radio waves are usually similar in size to the wavelength they are to use. Many radio antennas (like those on cars) are made long because they receive signals of FM radio (a few meters, several feet) or AM radio (hundreds of meters, about a thousand feet). 

[[Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Bridges

A bridge is a structure to cross an open space or gap.  Bridges are mostly made for crossing rivers, valleys, or roads.  Nowadays most big bridges are made to carry vehicles but people have also walked across bridges for thousands of years.  Bridges called highway overpasses carry a road over another road. 

Military bridges are portable, so that they may be easily moved to where they are needed.  This makes them much more complex than most civilian bridges. 

The first man-made bridges were probably made from cut wood or stones. Some stone bridges have lasted thousands of years. In recent centuries large bridges are made mostly of steel. They do not last as long. Many bridges are in a state of disrepair.

[[Mysticism]]

CATEGORIES: Theology, Reality

Mysticism is the belief that people can directly experience God or true reality, rather than through books, ritual or other people. People who practice this are called mystics.

Mystics exist within most religions, though not all people who practice religions are mystics. Mystics may experience visions or dreams, or hear God as a voice.

[[Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Ontario, 1867 establishments in Canada, Provinces and territories of Canada

Ontario is a province of Canada. It is in the eastern half of Canada, between Manitoba and Quebec. Ontario has the most people of any province, with 13,150,000 in 2009, and is home to the biggest city in Canada, Toronto, which is also the capital of the province. In the eastern part of the province, placed on the border with Quebec, is Ottawa, the capital of Canada, located on the Ottawa River.

Ontario also has the second largest land area, with 1,076,395 km²; only Quebec is larger by size. (Nunavut and Northwest Territories are also larger, but are called territories and not provinces). The province has one of the longest borders with the United States and there are several border crossings including the one at Niagara Falls. Along this border are 4 large lakes called Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron, and Lake Superior. They each are partly in Ontario and partly in the United States, and the border runs through them, but not Lake Michigan, which is entirely in the United States. These five lakes are together are called the Great Lakes.

There are a number of symbols that represent the province of Ontario. The flag is red with the British Union Jack in the top left corner and the provincial shield is on the right hand side of the flag. The provincial bird is the loon, and the provincial flower is the trillium. It has three flower petals and it is usually white but some times is pink or purple.

[[Manitoba]]

CATEGORIES: Manitoba, 1870 establishments in North America, 1870s establishments in Canada, Provinces and territories of Canada

Manitoba is a province of Canada. It lies roughly in the centre of Canada.

Manitoba is the 6th largest province with 647797 area. It has the fifth largest number of people, with 1,379,584 in 2020. People from Manitoba are called "Manitobans".

[[Head of government]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of government

The head of government is the leader of the executive branch of a nation's government. This is not always the same person as the head of state. Official titles for heads of government include Premier or Prime Minister.

For example, in the United States, the president is both the head of state and the head of government. In the Republic of Ireland the president is the head of state but the Taoiseach is the head of government. In most modern monarchies the king (or queen) is the head of state but not the head of government, as is the case of Japan and the UK, for example.

The head of state of some countries has no power over law and justice, for example, the Bundespresident of Germany.

[[Saskatchewan]]

CATEGORIES: Saskatchewan, 1905 establishments in North America, 1900s establishments in Canada, Provinces and territories of Canada

Saskatchewan (Saskatchewan.ogg; Canadian French: saskatʃəwan sas) is a province in Canada. About 1 million people live in Saskatchewan. Most of its population lives in the southern part of the province. The primary industry in Saskatchewan is agriculture (farming).

Saskatchewan is known for its wide horizons. The land is very flat in the south, so you can sometimes see far away. Not all the land is flat prairie. There are beautiful scenic woodlands and forests in the central and northern regions and parklands with lakes for fishing. The province is marked by and named after the North and South Saskatchewan rivers that run through it. The province is nicknamed The Land of Living Skies. 

[[Classical music]]

CATEGORIES: Music genres

Classical music is a very general term which normally refers to the standard music of countries in the western world. It is music that has been composed by musicians who are trained in the art of writing music (composing) and written down in music notation so that other musicians can play it. Classical music may also be described as "art music" though it was not good in classical period that term also Includes types of serious modern music which are not classical. Classical music differs from pop music because it is not made just in order to be popular for time or just to be a commercial success. It is different from folk music which is generally made up by ordinary members of society and learned by future generations by listening, dancing and copying.

[[SNAFU]]

CATEGORIES: Figures of speech, Acronyms

SNAFU or snafu is an acronym that the United States Military first used. Civilians now use it as well. It stands for Situation Normal: All (Fucked/Fouled/Francis) Up.

In modern times, it means a situation that was occurring normally but then suddenly began to go wrong. For example:

The general's visit this week-end went well until we hit a 'snafu'. Everything went wrong after that.

Snafu is used mostly as a noun. It can also be used as a verb but usually in the passive sense. For instance, someone would say:

The general's visit this week-end went well until it 'snafued'.  Everything went wrong after that.

But they would probably not say:

The general's visit this week-end went well until we 'snafued' it.

[[Atlanta]]

CATEGORIES: Atlanta, Georgia, Fulton County, Georgia, County seats in Georgia, State capitals in the United States, Olympic cities, 1837 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Atlanta is the capital and largest city of the U.S. state of Georgia. It is one of the South's largest cities. Atlanta is known as a major business city. It is the home of Coca-Cola Company, CNN, AT&T, and Home Depot, as well as many other Fortune 500 companies. Atlanta's airport, called Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport, is the busiest airport in the world. Atlanta is near the center of Georgia and is on the Chattahoochee River.

Many African Americans live in Atlanta. Some people call it a "black mecca".

[[Niccolò Machiavelli]]

CATEGORIES: 1469 births, 1527 deaths, 16th century philosophers, Civil servants, Italian philosophers, Italian playwrights, Italian writers, People from Florence

Niccolò Machiavelli (3 May 1469 – 21 June 1527) was a Florentine Renaissance man, statesman, and writer. He was a diplomat and government official in the Medici period of the Florentine Republic. Machiavelli is best known for writing about political philosophy. He also wrote poetry, plays, carnival songs, history books, military science books, and some of the best-known personal letters in the Italian language. His best known book is The Prince from 1513. It was not published until 1532, which was five years after he died.

Many people use the word Machiavellian to mean "evil" because they do not like Machiavelli or his ideas. But this is mostly known to be a false understanding of what he really thought. Machiavelli is remembered for being an important realism theorist. But realism theory was actually already a big trend in Florence at the time. Machiavelli's ideas are focused mostly on a unique understanding of virtue, statesmanship, and fortune (Fortuna).

[[Supply line]]

CATEGORIES: Military

A supply line is a large line of military supply vehicles, usually in convoy format. The line is useful for transporting needed supplies (food, medical supplies, ammo) to the front line. Without the supply line, a deployed army far from home would not be able to fight for long, as supplies would soon run out. 

The enemy is most likely to target the supply line if not heavily defended, since once the supplies are cut off, the army will soon be unable to fight, and unable to reinforce, and so they will be forced to surrender or die. 

[[Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Michigan, 1837 establishments in the United States

Michigan is one of the fifty states in the United States of America. It is the 11th largest state in the United States.  It is made up of two peninsulas (connected by the Mackinac Bridge): the only state to be so. It borders the U.S. states of Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, Minnesota, and Illinois. Its borders with Minnesota and Illinois are only by water.  It also borders Canada by water.  It was the 26th state to join the union on January 26, 1837.  In 1847, Michigan became the first U.S. state to abolish the death penalty.

[[Caenorhabditis elegans]]

CATEGORIES: Nematodes, Model organisms

Caenorhabditis elegans is a species of roundworm or nematode. It is important because much research has been done on its genetics and development.

C. elegans is about 1 mm long. The worms are not parasites, they are free-living. They live in soil and feed on bacteria. C. elegans is a model organism, used to study animal development and behavior. It is the first multicellular organism for which scientists have been able to sequence its whole genome.

C. elegans has two types of sex: hermaphrodite and male. A hermaphrodite makes sperms when its in a larval stage and makes ova in an adult stage.  A male can only make sperm. Males are a little smaller than hermaphrodites.

Study using C. elegans was begun in 1965 by Sydney Brenner. In laboratories, they are easy to keep alive. At 25ºC, they spend 14 hours as an embryo.  Animals like C. elegans that do not take long to grow and are easy to feed are usually good organisms for research.

In 2002, the Nobel Prize for Medicine was awarded to Sydney Brenner, Robert Horvitz, and John Sulston for their work on how C. elegans's genes cause it to grow and cause some of its cells to die.

[[Saxe-Weimar]]

CATEGORIES: States of the Confederation of the Rhine, States of the Holy Roman Empire, Thuringia, Weimar

Saxe-Weimar (Sachsen-Weimar) was a duchy in Thuringia, Germany. The chief town and capital was Weimar.

[[Oldham]]

CATEGORIES: Oldham, Greater Manchester

Oldham is a town in the North West of England. It is to the north-east of Manchester. It is part of Greater Manchester. Oldham was part of Lancashire until 1 April 1974.

There were riots in Oldham in May 2001. It is the centre of the Borough of Oldham. 

Oldham Council achieved dubious notoriety in 2009 when in ran up a bill of £8 million carrying out a failed prosecution of kitchen tycoon Vance Miller. The Judge threw out the case and lambasted the Council for the frivolity of the prosecution.

The town has an association football team, called Oldham Athletic. It also has a cricket club, called Oldham Cricket Club.

The composer, William Walton was born in Oldham.

The first test tube baby, Louise Joy Brown, was born in Oldham General Hospital on 25 July 1978.

[[Pakistan]]

CATEGORIES: Pakistan, 1947 establishments in Asia, British India, English-speaking countries, Federations, Members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation

Pakistan is a country in South Asia. It is next to India, Iran, Afghanistan, and China. It is officially called the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. It has a long coastline along the Arabian Sea in the south. Pakistan has the fifth largest population (207.77 million) in the world. Pakistan has a total land area of 880940 (including the Pakistani controlled territories of Azad Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan). This makes Pakistan the 34th largest country in the world. Pakistan has the seventh largest army in the world. The capital of Pakistan is Islamabad. Before 1960, it was Karachi, which is now the country's largest city.

The name Pākistān means Land of the Pure in Persian and Urdu.

[[New Zealand]]

CATEGORIES: New Zealand, Commonwealth realms, English-speaking countries, Australasia, Gondwana, Current monarchies

New Zealand (known as Aotearoa in the Māori language) is an island country in Oceania. It is a sovereign state in the south-western part of the Pacific Ocean. It is made up of two large islands (the North Island and the South Island) and many smaller islands. These islands are located to the southeast of Australia. New Zealand was one of the last places in the world that humans discovered, because it is a long way away from most of the world. During its time without humans, New Zealand was a good place for an unusual range of plants and animals to develop.

The capital city of the country is Wellington, and the largest city is Auckland. Both of these cities are on the North Island. The largest city on the South Island is Christchurch.

The official languages are English, Māori and New Zealand sign language. English has never been granted official language status in the NZ laws,  but it is used as a default official language due to its wide usage.

In 2010, a newspaper in NZ said that New Zealand was the 8th happiest country in the world.

[[South Korea]]

CATEGORIES: South Korea, 1945 establishments in Asia

South Korea is a country in the southern part of the Korean peninsula, in the north east region of Asia. The capital city is Seoul. The official name of South Korea is the Republic of Korea in English, 대한민국 (Daehan Minguk) in Korean writing (Hangeul), and 大韓民國 in Chinese characters (Hanja). About half of the country's people live in its capital city, Seoul, or near the city in the metropolitan area. Korea's Seoul metropolitan area is one of the most populous metropolitan areas in the world. In fact, some sources say it is the second most populous after Tokyo, Japan.

[[Republic of Ireland]]

CATEGORIES: Republic of Ireland, European Union member states, English-speaking countries, 1949 establishments in Europe

Ireland (Éire ˈeːɾʲə), also known as the Republic of Ireland is a European country on the island of Ireland. It is a member of the European Union. The country is sometimes called the Republic of Ireland in order to distinguish between the territory of the Irish state and island proper, but Ireland is its official name. It covers about five-sixths of the island of Ireland. The other sixth is called Northern Ireland, which is still part of the United Kingdom. The republic's capital is Dublin. Cork is the second largest city in the country and the third largest on the island of Ireland. The population of Ireland is 4.6 million. English is the main language spoken. The Irish language is widely taught in all schools, and it is still spoken as a first language in some areas of the country, known as the Gaeltacht. Irish is the first official language, followed by English.

[[Vietnam]]

CATEGORIES: Vietnam, 1975 establishments in Asia

Vietnam (Cộng hòa Xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam) is a country in Southeast Asia. The long-form name of the country is the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The neighboring countries of Vietnam are China, Laos and Cambodia. Vietnam is one of five remaining countries that believe in communism. The capital of Vietnam is Hanoi. The biggest city is Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon). There are about 94,444,200 people living in Vietnam.

After the Japanese occupation in the 1940s, the Vietnamese fought French colonial rule during the First Indochina War between the Viet Minh and the French in 2 September 1945. Hồ Chí Minh declared Vietnam's independence from France under the new name of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, but was fought by French colonialists. In 1954, the Vietnamese declared victory in Dien Bien Phu which took place between March and May 1954 and culminated in a major French defeat. Then Vietnam was divided into two political states, North Vietnam (officially the Democratic Republic of Vietnam) and South Vietnam (officially the Republic of Vietnam). Conflicts between the two sides intensified in the so-called Vietnam War with strong influence from the US in South Vietnam. The war ended in 1975 with a North Vietnamese victory.

Vietnam was then united under a communist government. In 1986, the government launched a number of economic and political reforms that began Vietnam's path to integration into the world economy. By 2000, it had established diplomatic relations with all nations. Since 2000, Vietnam's economic growth has been among the highest in the world, and in 2011 it had the highest global growth generator index among 11 major economies. Its successful economic reforms resulted in its becoming a member of the World Trade Organization in 2007. It is also a member of economic cooperation between Asia and the Pacific and the International de la Francophonie Organization.

[[Lance Armstrong]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2000 Summer Olympics, American adoptees, American cyclists, American Olympic bronze medalists, Cancer survivors, Doping cases in cycling, Living people, Sportspeople from Texas, Tour de France cyclists, People from Plano, Texas

Lance Edward Armstrong (born September 18, 1971 in Plano, Texas, USA) is an American former bicycle rider. He used drugs which helped him in competition. In 2012 the US Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) took away all his titles from 1998 to 2006. In 2012, he was also banned forever from cycling competitions.

Before his titles were taken away, he won the Tour de France seven times in a row, from 1999 to 2005. He did this several years after having brain surgery, testicular surgery, and a long course of chemotherapy in 1996. The chemotherapy was to treat testicular cancer that spread to his brain and lungs. Armstrong used to race for the Discovery Channel Pro Cycling Team, but was only team leader during the Tour de France.

Armstrong retired from professional cycling in 2011.

[[Ton]]

Ton might refer to

[[Phoebe (moon)]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn's moons

Phoebe is a moon which goes around (orbits) the planet called Saturn. It takes eighteen months for Phoebe to go all the way around Saturn. It is half made out of rock, and half made out of ice. The ground on Phoebe is black, which means that it is very dark when seen from Earth. Phoebe does not have any air, and there is no water on its surface.

There are many craters on Phoebe. These are from asteroids and other things crashing into it, and leaving round marks on the surface.

Phoebe is slightly irregular, which means that it is not perfectly round like a ball. It has an average diameter of 213 km. This means that the Earth's moon is 15 times bigger than Phoebe. The duration between two sunrises (rotation period) is only 9 hours and 16.5 minutes long. 

[[Three Peaks Challenge]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain climbing

The Three Peaks Challenge is a challenge (a hard task or job) which involves climbing three British mountains (a peak is the top of a mountain) in less than 24 hours. The three mountains are the highest of each of the three countries in the island of Great Britain.

Each year many people attempt (try) to do the challenge to raise money for charity. They do this by getting their friends and family to sponsor them (give them money). Many people do not do the challenge for charity. They do it simply because they enjoy walking in the mountains and they want to try something hard. These people usually do it in small groups. Some of them will do the walking, and others will do the driving and the cooking for them. Some people have completed the challenge very quickly. The record is fifteen hours.

[[Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Pennsylvania, 1787 establishments in the United States

Pennsylvania is one of the 50 states in the United States of America. It is in the northeastern part of the country. It has a border with Ohio on the west, West Virginia on the south and west, Maryland and Delaware on the south, New Jersey on the east, and New York and Lake Erie on the north.

The state capital of Pennsylvania is Harrisburg. The largest city in Pennsylvania is Philadelphia. The state nickname of Pennsylvania is "The Keystone State". The current governor of Pennsylvania is Tom Wolf.

Pennsylvania is well known for its role in the American Revolution, its large communities of Amish, and its heavy industry.

[[Box]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Containers

A box is a container used to put things in. It is mainly a cuboid (square) shape, but it can be other shapes too. Boxes are usually made out of cardboard, wood, plastic or metal.

Many boxes are made of cardboard, and a lot of them are made. They are primarily used for packaging commercial goods or storing goods and materials. They can be made from bent or wrinkled cardboard. In their most obvious life stage, they are popularly used as a cheap material to hold a range of projects, among them being science experiments, children's toys, costumes and other things.

A box also means a rectangle, e.g. userbox. But rectangles are mainly referred to as rectangles, the term box is the outline, or perimeter of the rectangle.

[[Philippines]]

CATEGORIES: Philippines, 1946 establishments in Asia

The Philippines is an island country in Southeast Asia in the Pacific Ocean. It has 7,641 islands. Spain (1521-1898) and the United States (1898-1946), colonized (controlled) the country and Palau, which is on the eastern side of the Philippine Sea. The capital city of the Philippines is Manila.

The Philippines and East Timor are the only nations in East Asia where most people are Christians. The Philippines achieved independence after the United States left in 1946.

The Philippine Islands are surrounded on the east by the Philippine Sea, on the west by the South China Sea, and on the south by the Celebes Sea. Borneo island is a few hundred kilometers to the southwest, Vietnam is to the west, and Taiwan is directly north.

[[Fawlty Towers]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 television series debuts, 1979 disestablishments, 1970s British sitcoms, 1970s British workplace television series, 1970s workplace comedy television series, BBC television sitcoms, British workplace comedy television series, Television series about marriage, Torquay, English-language television programs

Fawlty Towers is a British television sitcom. It was broadcast by the BBC in two series, one in 1975, the other in 1979. Only twelve episodes were ever broadcast. However, the show is still liked by millions of people. Fawlty Towers has influenced other comedies.

It is set in a hotel in the coastal Devon town of Torquay.

[[Custom]]

CATEGORIES: Social sciences, Culture

A custom (also called a tradition) is a common way of doing things. It is something that many people do, and have done for a long time. Usually, the people come from the same country, culture, or religion. Usually, they do not know when the custom started.

Many customs are things that people do that are handed down from the past and the Future.

Examples of it are: 

[[Fort Ouiatenon]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Indiana, 1717 establishments, 18th-century establishments in North America

Fort Ouiatenon was the first fortified European settlement in what is now the U.S. state of Indiana. It is approximately three miles southwest of modern-day West Lafayette.

Fort Ouiatenon was originally constructed by the French government in 1717 as a military outpost to protect against Great Britain's western expansion. Its location among the unsettled woodlands of the Wabash River valley also made it a key center of trade for fur trappers. French merchants and trappers from Quebec would arrive at Fort Ouiatenon in search of beaver pelts and to take advantage of trade relations with the native Wea Native American tribes.

At its peak level of activity during the mid-18th century Fort Ouiatenon was home to over 2,000 residents. In 1761, during the French and Indian War, a contingent of British soldiers led by Lieutenant Edward Jenkins captured and occupied the fort. In 1763 an uprising led by Chief Pontiac of the Ottawa Native American tribe surprised Lieutenant Jenkins and his men and captured Fort Ouiatenon without firing a shot. Seven similar posts were also captured in what became known as Pontiac's Uprising.

The British made little use of Fort Ouiatenon after the French and Indian War; it was never garrisoned. During the 1780s, local Indian tribes used it as a base of operations to stage raids against American settlers pushing westward. Consequently, President George Washington ordered the fort to be destroyed in 1791.

In 1930 a replica of Fort Ouiatenon was built near its original site by a local physician named Richard Wetherill. In 1970 the site was placed on the National Register of Historic Places by the U.S. Department of the Interior. Today Fort Ouiatenon is open to tourists and is the location of the annual Feast of the Hunters' Moon.

[[Chennai]]

CATEGORIES: Chennai, 1661 establishments, 17th century establishments in India, 1660s establishments in England

Chennai (formerly known as Madras) is the capital city of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It has a population of about 7 million people. Almost 10% of all of the people in the state live in Chennai. The city is the fourth largest city of India. It was founded in 1661 by the British East India Company. The city is on the Coromandel Coast of the Bay of Bengal.

Chennai is the automobile capital of India. It is also referred as the Detroit of South Asia. The 12 long Marina Beach in Chennai, is one of the longest beaches in the world. The city is separated into three parts by two rivers. The Cooum River divides the city into almost half and the Adyar River divides the southern half of the city into two parts. The historic Buckingham Canal runs through the city. It is almost parallel to the coast. The 350 year old city still has much of its old charm. Today, it is a big commercial and industrial centre. The city has much cultural heritage. The temples, shrines, forts and palaces of the city combine its past with the present.

[[Mumbai]]

CATEGORIES: Mumbai

Mumbai (previously known as Bombay until 1996) is a natural harbour on the west coast of India, and is the capital city of Maharashtra state. It is India's largest city, and one of the world's most populous cities.  It is the financial capital of India and a global city.  Many billionaires live there.  The city is the second most-populous in the world.  It has approximately 13 million people. Along with the neighbouring cities of Navi Mumbai and Thane, it forms the world's 4th largest urban agglomeration. They have around 19.1 million people.

The seven islands that form Bombay were home to fishing colonies. The islands were ruled by successive kingdoms and indigenous empires before Portuguese settlers took it. Then, it went to the British East India Company. During the mid-18th century, Bombay became a major trading town. It became a strong place for the Indian independence movement during the early 20th century. When India became independent in 1947, the city was put into Bombay State. In 1960, following the Samyukta Maharashtra movement, a new state of Maharashtra was created with Bombay as the capital. It was renamed Mumbai in 1996.

Mumbai generates more than 6% of India's GDP. It accounts for 25% of industrial output, 40% of sea trade, and 70% of capital transactions to India's economy. The Reserve Bank of India, the Bombay Stock Exchange, the National Stock Exchange of India and many Indian companies and multinational corporations are in the city. It also has the Hindi film and television industry, known as Bollywood.

[[Bangalore]]

CATEGORIES: Bangalore

Former Bangalore (English pronunciation: ˈbæŋɡəlɔər, bæŋɡəˈlɔər), today again and officially known as Bengaluru (ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು) is the capital city of the Indian state of Karnataka. It is famous for its Information technology industry and so it is called the Silicon Valley of India. Today as a large and growing city, Bangalore has many of the most well-recognized colleges and research institutions in India.

Bangalore is more famous for its climatic conditions. The temperature is usually low compared to the other cities in Karnataka.This city was also known as the garden city because of the greenery it had. 

[[Akbar the Great]]

CATEGORIES: 1542 births, 1605 deaths, Akbar, History of India, Deaths from dysentery

Akbar (Abu'l-Fath Jalal ud-din Muhammad Akbar, 15 October 1542 – 27 October 1605) was the 3rd Mughal Emperor. He was born in Umarkot (now Pakistan). He accepted Islam on the holy day of 21 March 1546. He was the son of 2nd Mughal Emperor Humayun.

Akbar became the de jure king in 1556 at the age of 13 when his father died. Bairam Khan was appointed as Akbar's regent and chief army commander. Soon after coming to power Akbar defeated Himu, the general of the Afghan forces, in the Second Battle of Panipat. After a few years, he ended the regency of Bairam Khan and took charge of the kingdom. He initially offered friendship to the Rajputs. However, he had to fight against some Rajputs who opposed him. In 1576 he defeated Maha Rana Pratap of Mewar in the Battle of Haldighati. Akbar's wars made the Mughal empire more than twice as big as it had been before, covering most of the Indian subcontinent except the south.

[[New Delhi]]

CATEGORIES: New Delhi

New Delhi (नई दिल्ली) is the capital of India and a union territory of the megacity of Delhi. It has a very old history and is home to several monuments where the city is expensive to live in. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the North Indian zone. The city has an area of about 42.7 km2. New Delhi has a population of about 9.4 Million people.

[[Edmund Hillary]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2008 deaths, Beekeepers, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Explorers, Mountain climbers, People from Auckland

Sir Edmund Hillary, (born 20 July 1919, died 11 January 2008) was a New Zealand mountaineer and explorer. He and Sherpa guide Tenzing Norgay were the first people to climb Mount Everest. They got to the top on 29 May 1953. Mount Everest is the tallest mountain on Earth. During his teenage years, Hillary had attended Auckland Grammar School.

Sir Edmund Hillary's fame came as a result of being the first New Zealander in the world to conquer Mt. Everest in Nepal. He is on the New Zealand five dollar note. He also climbed ten other mountains after Mount Everest, all of which are also in the Himalayas.

[[Wright brothers]]

CATEGORIES: American aviators, American inventors, Sibling duos, Businesspeople from Dayton, Ohio

The Wright brothers, Orville Wright (August 19, 1871 – January 30, 1948) and Wilbur Wright (April 16, 1867 – May 30, 1912), designed, built, and flew the first controlled, powered, heavier-than-air airplane on December 17, 1903. They had been experimenting for many years with gliders and other vehicles before their first powered flight. They are also known for making the first way to steer an airplane. They designed the aircraft in Dayton, Ohio, and their first test flight was in Kitty Hawk, North Carolina.

[[Charles Darwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1809 births, 1882 deaths, Charles Darwin, Darwin family, Agnostics, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British abolitionists, British zoologists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from heart failure, English activists, English Anglicans, English botanists, English evolutionary biologists, English geologists, English naturalists, English science writers, People buried in Westminster Abbey, People from Shropshire

Charles Robert Darwin (12 February 1809 – 19 April 1882) was an English naturalist. He was born in Shrewsbury, Shropshire. He is famous for his work on the theory of evolution.

His book On the Origin of Species (1859) did two things. First, it provided a great deal of evidence that evolution has taken place. Second, it proposed a theory to explain how evolution works. That theory is natural selection. Evolution and natural selection is the key to understanding and the diversity of life on Earth.

[[Adam Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1723 births, 1790 deaths, 18th century philosophers, British economists, British philosophers, Scottish scientists, Scottish writers

Adam Smith (16 June 1723 – 17 July 1790) was a Scottish economist, who is called the Father of Modern Economics.

His book, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations, published in 1776, was very important. People call the book just The Wealth of Nations. It stated some of the ideas on which modern economics is based off, especially market economics.

In the Wealth of Nations Adam Smith asks 'what can a person do that is best for his country?' He decides that if every person does what is best for themself and their little circle of family and friends, then the country will do better. This is because every person knows a lot about their own situation (what they need and what they want, what works and what does not work), much more than the government knows. This sort of thinking is called "liberal theory", a main part of liberalism.

He was also a philosopher who wanted to know why people thought (felt) that some things are good and others bad. 

He wrote an earlier book, in 1759, called The Theory of Moral Sentiments. He thought that empathy was very important in ethics. Empathy is when you see how someone else is feeling, imagine what it feels like, and then end up feeling the same way: for Smith, empathy is like "putting yourself in someone else's shoes". For example, empathy makes us feel happy to see someone else who is happy, or feel sorry for someone who is sad. Empathy may even make us feel pain when we see someone in pain (as if we had been hurt or affected). Both Smith and his friend David Hume, who was another Scottish philosopher, wrote about the importance of sympathy in ethics.

[[Isaac Newton]]

CATEGORIES: 1643 births, 1727 deaths, English mathematicians, English physicists, English science writers, Fellows of the Royal Society, People buried in Westminster Abbey, Presidents of the Royal Society, Theoretical physicists, Writers from Lincolnshire

Sir Isaac Newton GBR (25 December 1643 – 20 March 1726/27) was an English physicist, mathematician and astronomer. He is well known for his work on the laws of motion, optics, gravity, and calculus. In 1687, Newton published a book called the Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica in which he presents his theory of universal gravitation and  three laws of motion.

Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope in 1668. He also developed a theory of light based on the observation that a prism decomposes white light into the colors of the rainbow. Newton also shares credit with Gottfried Leibniz for the development of calculus. 

Newton's ideas on light, motion, and gravity dominated physics for the next three centuries, until modified by Albert Einstein's theory of relativity.

After being knighted in 1705 because he was Master of the Royal Mint, he was "Sir" Isaac Newton.

[[Johann Wolfgang von Goethe]]

CATEGORIES: 1749 births, 1832 deaths, 18th century philosophers, 19th century philosophers, German autobiographers, German philosophers, German poets, Writers from Frankfurt

Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (August 28, 1749 – March 22, 1832) was a German writer, poet, novelist, and playwright. He also worked as an actor, administrator, scientist, geologist, botanist, and philosopher. He influenced many 19th century writers and thinkers. His contributions to science include his work in botany and his Theory of Colours. Famous lines from his books are often quoted, and some of his phrases have become part of the German language. His poems were set to music by composers like Schubert, Schumann, Brahms, Wolf, and Strauss. Most of his scientific work now seems old-fashioned. 

[[Pythagoras]]

CATEGORIES: 580s BC births, 496 BC deaths, Presocratic philosophers, Ancient mathematicians

Pythagoras of Samos was a famous Greek mathematician and philosopher (circa 570 – c. 495 BC). He is known best for the proof of the important Pythagorean theorem, which is about right angle triangles. He started a group of mathematicians, called the Pythagoreans, who worshiped numbers and lived like monks. He had an influence on Plato.

He had a great impact on mathematics, theory of music and astronomy. His theories are still used in mathematics today. He was one of the greatest thinkers of his time.

Pythagoras was born in Samos, a little island off the western coast of Asia Minor. There is not much information about his life. It is said that he had a good childhood. Growing up with two or three brothers, he was well educated. He did not agree with the government and their schooling, so he moved to Crotone and set up his own cult (little society) of followers under his rule. His followers did not have any personal possessions, and they were all vegetarians. Pythagoras taught them all, and they had to obey strict rules.

Some say he was the first person to use the term philosophy. Since he worked very closely with his group, the Pythagoreans, it is sometimes hard to tell his works from those of his followers.

Religion was important to the Pythagoreans.  They swore their oaths by "1+2+3+4" (which equals 10).  They also believed the soul is immortal and goes through a cycle of rebirths until it can become pure.  They believed that these souls were in both animal and plant life.

[[Socrates]]

CATEGORIES: 460s BC births, 399 BC deaths, Ancient Greek philosophers, Executed people

Socrates (469 BC – 399 BC) was one of the greatest Greek philosophers. He did not propose any specific knowledge or policy. He showed  how argument, debate, and discussion could help men to understand difficult issues. Most of the issues he dealt with were only political on the surface. Underneath, they were moral questions about how life should be lived. Such is the influence of Socrates that philosophers before him are called the Presocratic philosophers.

Socrates made enemies, three of whom brought charges against him. Socrates was tried for his life in 399 BC, found guilty, and put to death by drinking hemlock (a herbal poison). The story of his trial and death is the subject of a tract by Plato which is called the Apologia.

Most of what we know about Socrates comes from the works of Plato, who was his pupil. Socrates lived in the Greek city of Athens. His method of teaching was to have a dialogue with individual students. They would propose some point of view, and Socrates would question them, asking what they meant. He would pretend "I don't know anything; I'm just trying to understand what it is you are saying", or words to that effect. This is now called the Socratic method of teaching.

Socrates is sometimes called the "father of Western philosophy". This is because in the discussions he uncovered some of the most basic questions in philosophy, questions which are still discussed today. Some of the people he taught came to be important and successful, like Plato and Alcibiades.

[[Dante Alighieri]]

CATEGORIES: 1265 births, 1321 deaths, Italian poets, Medieval poets, People from Florence, Writers from Tuscany

Dante Alighieri (duˈrante deʎʎ aliˈɡjɛːri), known simply as Dante (ˈdante, UK, US; c. 1265 – September 14, 1321), was a major Italian poet of the Late Middle Ages/Early Renaissance. His central work, the Commedia (Divine Comedy), is considered the greatest literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature. In Italian he is known as "the Supreme Poet" (il Sommo Poeta). Dante and the Divine Comedy have been a source of inspiration for artists for almost seven centuries. Dante, alongside Petrarch and Boccaccio, is known as one of "the three fountains", and is often referred to as "the Father of the Italian language". The first biography written on him was by his contemporary Giovanni Villani. The most famous section in The Divine Comedy is the first third of it, the first 34 cantos of the poem, called Inferno, which features Dante's vision of Hell.

[[Virginia Woolf]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1941 deaths, Bisexual people, British crime victims, British feminists, English LGBT people, English novelists, English playwrights, Feminist writers, LGBT feminists, LGBT novelists, People with bipolar disorder, Suicides by drowning, Suicides in the United Kingdom, Writers from London, Writers who committed suicide

Virginia Woolf (25 January 1882 – 28 March 1941) was an English modernist writer, essayist and feminist.

[[March 28]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[January 25]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Jane Austen]]

CATEGORIES: 1775 births, 1817 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Hampshire, English novelists, Jane Austen, Writers from Hampshire

Jane Austen (16 December 1775 – 18  July 1817) was an English novelist. She wrote many books of romantic fiction about the gentry. Her works made her one of the most famous and beloved writers in English literature. She is one of the great masters of the English novel.

Austen's works criticized sentimental novels in the late 18th century, and are part of the change to nineteenth-century realism. She wrote about typical people in everyday life. This gave the English novel its first distinctly modern character. Austen's stories are often comic, but they also show how women depended on marriage for social standing and economic security. Her works are also about moral problems.

Jane Austen was born on 16 December 1775 at Steventon, near Basingstoke. Educated mostly by her father and older brothers, and also by her own reading, she lived with her family at Steventon. They moved to Bath when her father retired in 1801. After he died in 1805, she moved around with her mother. In 1809, they settled in Chawton, near Alton, Hampshire. In May 1817 she moved to Winchester to be near her doctor. She died there on 18 July 1817.

Jane Austen was very modest about her own genius. She once famously described her work as "the little bit (two Inches wide) of Ivory, on which I work with so fine a brush, as produces little effect after much labor". When she was a girl she wrote stories. Her works were printed only after much revision. Only four of her novels were printed while she was alive. They were Sense and Sensibility (1811), Pride and Prejudice (1813), Mansfield Park (1814) and Emma (1815). Two other novels, Northanger Abbey and Persuasion, were printed in 1817 with a biographical notice by her brother, Henry Austen. Persuasion was written shortly before her death. She also wrote two earlier works, Lady Susan, and an unfinished novel, The Watsons. She had been working on a new novel, Sanditon, but she died before she could finish it. She is now a well known great writer.

[[Charlotte Brontë]]

CATEGORIES: 1816 births, 1885 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Yorkshire, English novelists, English poets, Writers from Yorkshire

Charlotte Brontë (21 April 1816 – 31 March 1855) was an English novelist and poet. 

She first published her works, including Jane Eyre, under the pseudonym (false name) of Currer Bell. In 1846, Charlotte encouraged her sisters to print Poems by Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell. They did not sell well. Her first novel, The Professor, was rejected by many publishers. It was not printed until 1857. She is famous for her novel Jane Eyre (1847), which was very popular when it was printed. 

Jane Eyre was a strong story of a plain, brave, clever woman struggling with her passions, reasons, and social condition. She later wrote the books Shirley (1849) and Villette (1853). She lived longer than her sisters, but she was only 38 when she died in pregnancy.

[[Emily Brontë]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 births, 1848 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, Disease-related deaths in Yorkshire, English novelists, English poets, Infectious disease deaths in England, Writers from Yorkshire

Emily Jane Brontë (30 July 1818 – 19 December 1848) was a British author and poet. She is most famous for her only novel Wuthering Heights (published in 1847). She wrote under the pen name Ellis Bell. Brontë had two sisters, Charlotte and Anne, who were also writers. Her brother, Branwell, was a painter. She co-wrote the poetry collection Poems by Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell (1846), with her sisters. She was born in Thornton, West Riding of Yorkshire, England. She attended Cowan School with her sister Charlotte.

Brontë died of tuberculosis on 19 December 1848 in Haworth, West Riding of Yorkshire. She was 30.

[[Anne Brontë]]

CATEGORIES: 1820 births, 1849 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, Disease-related deaths in Yorkshire, English novelists, English poets, Infectious disease deaths in England, Writers from Yorkshire

Anne Brontë (17 January  1820 – 28 May 1849) was an English writer and poet. She is best known for writing Agnes Grey (1847) and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall (1848).

Anne was born on 17 January 1820 in Thornton, Yorkshire, England. She was the daughter of Patrick and Marie Brontë and the youngest of their six children. She was taught at her family's home in Haworth by her aunt Elizabeth Branwell. She worked as a governess in 1839 and then again between 1841 and 1845.

In 1846 Anne contributed 21 poems to Poems by Currer, Ellis and Acton Bell. This was a joint work with her sisters, Charlotte and Emily. Agnes Grey was published in 1847 in three volumes with Wuthering Heights, a book written by her sister Emily. The Tenant of Wildfell Hall was published in 1848 and sold well.

Anne Brontë died on 28 May 1849 in Scarborough, Yorkshire, England of tuberculosis.

[[Charles Dickens]]

CATEGORIES: Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from stroke, English novelists, Unitarians, People buried in Westminster Abbey, People from Portsmouth, Writers from Hampshire, 1812 births, 1870 deaths

Charles Dickens (7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870) was one of the great English writers of the 19th century.

[[Portsmouth]]

CATEGORIES: Portsmouth, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom

Portsmouth is a city in the south of England, in the county of Hampshire. About 280,536 people live there (As Of 2017). It is a port and is the home of the British Royal Navy. It's the second-largest city in the county of Hampshire, behind Southampton. It is one of the most densely populated cities in Europe. Portsmouth is on Portsea Island and is narrowly separated from the mainland by a creek.

For centuries the city was one of the world's biggest places of shipbuilding. Some of its most famous ships that people can still see are HMS Victory and the HMS Warrior. People also visit Portsmouth to see the old ship Mary Rose. This was Henry VIII of England's ship, and it was under the water for a long time, from 1545 to 1982. Tourists also go to see Cumberland House, the birthplace of Charles Dickens, a British author (writer).

Charles Dickens, Rudyard Kipling and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, all British authors, are famous people who lived in Portsmouth.

It is home of the Football League Two side Portsmouth F.C. They play at Fratton Park.

Portsmouth has one university, the University of Portsmouth.

North of the city is Cosham.

[[HMS Victory]]

CATEGORIES: British warships, Portsmouth

HMS ''Victory is the oldest ship still in use. It is in Portsmouth, England with the HMS Warrior and the remains of the Mary Rose'', a ship belonging to Henry VIII of England. 

Her most famous captains are Horatio Nelson, who died on the ship during the Battle of Trafalgar, and Samuel Hood.

[[HMS Warrior (1860)]]

CATEGORIES: British warships, Portsmouth

HMS ''Warrior was the first battleship with a hull made of iron. It was built in response to the French ironclad warship Gloire. It is in Portsmouth, England with the HMS Victory and the remains of the Mary Rose'', a ship belonging to Henry VIII of England.

[[Mary Rose]]

CATEGORIES: British warships, Portsmouth

The Mary Rose was a ship which belonged to Henry VIII of England.  She sank in 1545 in battle with a French fleet.

In 1979, the Mary Rose Trust was formed.  In 1982 the Mary Rose Trust managed to get the Mary Rose out of the sea. In 1994, they started to preserve her.  

The remains of the Mary Rose are currently in Portsmouth, England with the HMS Victory and HMS Warrior.

[[Mary Tudor]]

The name Mary Tudor can refer to either:

[[1603]]

CATEGORIES: 1603

[[April 28]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Mutiny on the Bounty]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United Kingdom, Mutiny on the Bounty, 1789 works

The Mutiny on the ''Bounty has become a famous story, leading to many books, movies, and songs. The 'HMS Bounty' was a small, three masted, fully rigged, sailing ship. The Bounty became famous when the crew (seamen) mutinied (took over) the ship on 28 April 1789. The captain of the Bounty'' was named William Bligh.

[[1787]]

CATEGORIES: 1787

[[August 16]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[December 23]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1788]]

CATEGORIES: 1788

[[October 25]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1789]]

CATEGORIES: 1789

[[April 4]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[May 28]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Political virtues]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics

The political virtues were listed by Bernard Crick "In Defense of Politics", 1982.  They included but were not limited to: 

take one step, then see its results before taking another

making friends with people you have argued with

giving up some things you want to get those things that are most important to you

people want to have a number of choices that are different from each other

meet the needs of changing times

never be boring

He sees these virtues as a way of avoiding ideology or "absolute-sounding ethic".  More virtues will lead to less conflict.  None of them can be forced on anyone.

Some other virtues have also been suggested:

humour,

empathy,

and compassion.  "Being brief" or "being positive" are sometimes claimed also to be virtues, but just as many people think they are bad things that only help avoid truth or serious problems.

[[Lady Jane Grey]]

CATEGORIES: 1537 births, 1554 deaths, 1550s in England, English Anglicans, Executed English people, House of Tudor, People executed by decapitation, Royalty from London

Lady Jane Grey (1537-1554), also known as 'The Nine Days Queen', was born in London, or at her family home of Bradgate Park, Leicestershire, England.

Jane was an English noblewoman, who occupied the English throne from 10 July until 19 July 1553 and was executed by decapitation, a usual method for persons of royal blood, for high treason.

A great-granddaughter of Henry VII by his younger daughter Mary, Jane was a first-cousin-once-removed of Edward VI.

In May 1553, Jane married Lord Guildford Dudley, a younger son of Edward's chief minister, John Dudley, Duke of Northumberland. When the 15-year-old King lay dying in June 1553, he nominated Jane as successor to the Crown in his will, thus subverting the claims of his half-sisters Mary and Elizabeth.

During her short reign, Jane lived in the Tower of London. She became a prisoner there, as the Privy Council decided to change sides and proclaim Mary as queen, on 19 July 1553. Wyatt's rebellion in January and February 1554 against Queen Mary's plans of a Spanish match was the direct cause of Jane's and her husband's execution.

[[Tower of London]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in England, Buildings and structures in London, Royal residences in the United Kingdom, World Heritage Sites in the United Kingdom, Towers in the United Kingdom, London Borough of Tower Hamlets

The Tower of London is an ancient Norman stone fortress in London, England. It stands on the bank of the River Thames, in the oldest part of the city.

It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[Anne Boleyn]]

CATEGORIES: People executed by decapitation, House of Tudor, Kings and Queens consort of England, People from Norfolk, Executed English people, 1500s births, 1536 deaths

Anne Boleyn (1501 or 1507 – 19 May 1536) was the second wife of King Henry VIII of England and queen consort from 1533 until 1536. She was the mother of Elizabeth I of England.  Anne has been called "the most influential and important queen consort England has ever had." It was because of Anne Boleyn that Henry VIII divorced Catherine of Aragon, and became independent from the Roman Catholic Church. After she was falsely accused of adultery, incest and high treason, she was executed.

[[Mona Lisa]]

CATEGORIES: 16th century paintings, Paintings by Leonardo da Vinci

Mona Lisa (also known as La Gioconda or La Joconde) is a 16th-century portrait painted in oil by Leonardo da Vinci during the Renaissance in Florence, Italy. Many people think Mona Lisa's smile is mysterious. It is so often studied, recognized, and copied that it is the most famous painting . The Louvre says that about 80 percent of its visitors come to see the painting of Mona Lisa.

Giorgio Vasari, who was Leonardo's first biographer (a person who writes about the life of another person), thought the painting was of a person named Lisa Gherardini. Speculation over the painting's model was solved in 2008 by Dr Armin Schlechter, a manuscript expert. Notes discovered in Heidelberg University Library which were written by Agostino Vespucci, a Florentine city official, reinforced Vasari's earlier identification of the model. Lisa was the wife of Francesco del Giocondo a rich silk merchant, who lived in Florence.

Although the sitter has traditionally been identified as Lisa del Giocondo, a lack of definitive evidence has long fueled alternative theories, including Leonardo's mother Caterina in a distant memory and glorified as the Virgin Mary as the painting’s subject, and the possibility that Leonardo used his own likeness.

Leonardo began painting the Mona Lisa in 1503 or 1504 in Florence, Italy. According to Da Vinci's contemporary, Giorgio Vasari, "...after he had lingered over it four years, left it unfinished....".

The painting was brought to France by Leonardo in 1516 and it was bought by Francis I of France.

The Mona Lisa used to hang in the Chateau Fontainebleau and was then moved to the Palace of Versailles. After the French Revolution, Napoleon I of France had it hanging in his bedroom in the Tuileries Palace, but it was later moved to the Louvre where it is still hanging today.

[[December 14]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1542]]

CATEGORIES: 1542

[[February 13]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[January 31]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1981]]

CATEGORIES: 1981

1981 (MCMLXXXI) was 1981.

[[Britney Spears]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Actors from Mississippi, American child singers, American movie actors, American pop musicians, Britney Spears, Grammy Award winners, Mouseketeers, Singers from Mississippi

Britney Jean Spears (born December 2, 1981) is an American recording artist, singer-songwriter, dancer, entertainer and actress. She has recorded several albums and has received several entertainment industry awards.

[[The Matrix]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 movies, 1999 science fiction movies, Matrix series, Drone movies, Transgender in movies, Warner Bros. movies, Post-apocalyptic movies, Dystopian movies

The Matrix is a science fiction action movie that was made in 1999. It was written and directed by the Wachowski Sisters. The main actors in the movie are Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, and Hugo Weaving. The Matrix was followed by two sequels: The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix Revolutions.

[[September 11 attacks]]

CATEGORIES: September 11 attacks

The September 11 attacks (also called 9/11) were four terrorist attacks against the United States of America. They all happened on the morning of Tuesday, September 11, 2001. The attacks killed 3,000 people, including the 19 attackers, making it the deadliest terrorist attack in history. They caused more than $10 billion in damage to infrastructure. They were carried out by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda. They used passenger airplanes to destroy famous buildings by flying the planes into them. There were two attacks in New York City and one in Arlington, Virginia. The fourth attack did not work and the plane crashed in a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania.

The buildings attacked were the World Trade Center's twin towers in New York City, and the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia. The fourth plane crashed in an empty field in Pennsylvania before it could reach its target in Washington, D.C. That target was either the White House or the United States Capitol. After the event, the United States government said the people who had done the attacks were close to the terrorist group al-Qaeda.

[[Cardiff]]

CATEGORIES: Cardiff

Cardiff is the capital and biggest city of Wales. It is also the 11th biggest city in the United Kingdom. Its name in the Welsh language is Caerdydd. A 2011 census says that around 346,100 people live in Cardiff. It is the most important city in Wales for tourism, culture, government, sport, transport, nightlife and business.  

Cardiff was declared a city in 1905, and it became the capital of Wales in 1955.

[[Valladolid]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Spain, Valladolid

Valladolid.ogg is a city in Spain, with a population of 316,564. It is the capital of Castile and León, and one of the historical capitals of the Spanish Kingdom.

On 19 October, 1469, Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile married secretely in the Palacio de los Vivero. Also, Christopher Columbus died in the city on 20 May, 1506.

The river that runs through the city is known as the Pisuerga. Valladolid has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Köppen climate classification).

[[Elizabeth Gaskell]]

CATEGORIES: 1810 births, 1865 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from myocardial infarction, English novelists, Writers from Cheshire, Writers from London

Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell (29 September 1810 – 12 November 1865) was an English writer.

She was born in Chelsea, London. After her mother died, she lived with her aunt in Knutsford, Cheshire. She married William Gaskell, a priest, in 1832. They lived in Manchester, where several of her books are set. She died of a heart attack in Holybourne, Hampshire.

Her most famous books are Mary Barton, Cranford, North and South, and Wives and Daughters. She also wrote a book of the life of her friend, writer Charlotte Brontë. Some of her books have been made into movies and television programmes.

[[Venice]]

CATEGORIES: History of Italy, Venice, Regional capitals in Italy

Venice is a city in Italy. It is the capital of the Veneto region, which is in the north-east of the country. The population of the 'Comune di Venezia', which is Venice, its lagoon and its mainland is 271,367. Area is 412 km². The population of Venice itself keeps on shrinking at an alarming rate and is now under 55000 locals.

Venice is built on 118 small islands that are separated by 150 canals. People cross the canals by many small bridges. They can also navigate across the city on boats, both rowing boats and motor boats. The most famous Venetian type of boat called a gondolas. The buildings in Venice are very old and attractive, and tourists come from all over the world to see them and the canals. This has made Venice one of the most famous cities in the world. The most famous sights are the Rialto Bridge, St Mark's Basilica and the Doge's Palace.

It is important to remember that Venice is much more than few landmarks and that we owe the city a lot: from words to objects or services of our daily life. Its lifestyle and culture are unique in the world and it can get confusing at first.

There are several problems in Venice, but it is still the most popular tourist attraction in northeast Italy. Every year the city sinks a few millimeters because the ground is made from mud. Eventually, the city might be completely underwater, but that would take decades. Because of this, the Italian government is building the MOSE Project, a state-of-the-art defense against the sea-water flooding, that will safely protect Venice indefinitely.

[[Naples]]

CATEGORIES: Naples, Regional capitals in Italy, 6th-century BC establishments

Naples is a southern Italian city with a port. It faces the Mediterranean Sea and is near Mount Vesuvius. Its name in Italian is Napoli which came from its Greek name Neapolis, meaning new city.  It has a population of about 1 million.  About 3 million live in the area around Naples (including Naples itself).

There is one airport in the city, Naples International Airport at Capodichino.

[[Florence]]

CATEGORIES: Florence, Regional capitals in Italy, World Heritage Sites in Italy

Florence (Firenze) is the capital city of the region of Tuscany (Toscana), in Italy. From 1865 to 1870 the city was also the capital of the Kingdom of Italy. Florence is on the Arno River. The city has a population of around 400,000 people, and a suburban population of over 2,000,000 people. The greater area has around 956,000 people. The city was a center of medieval European trade and finance. It is often considered the birthplace of the Italian Renaissance and was long ruled by the Medici family. Florence is also famous for its fine art and architecture. It is said that, of the 1,000 most important European artists of the second millennium, 350 lived or worked in Florence.

[[Milan]]

CATEGORIES: Milan, Regional capitals in Italy

Milan (Italian: Milano; ancient Medhelan Mediolanum (City in the middle of the lands)) is a city in northern Italy. Milan is the capital of the Milano Provence and of the Lombardy Region. It is populated by 1,308,735 inhabitants.

It is the most populated province in Italy, and it is the second biggest city in Italy (after Rome).

Milan is the fashion capital of the world and its important influence on design, economics, opera, and the media make it amongst the world's top 18 Global cities, along with Moscow, Buenos Aires and Kuala Lumpur.

[[Glamorgan]]

CATEGORIES: Glamorgan

Glamorgan, also known as Glamorganshire is a county in Wales in the west of Great Britain. Glamorgan was a medieval kingdom. Its capital is Cardiff.

The county is home to over a million people, which is more than one third the total of Wales. It contains the cities of Cardiff, Swansea and most of the valleys that are famous for coal mining in the past.

[[Cornwall]]

CATEGORIES: Cornwall, Ceremonial counties of England

Cornwall (Cornish: Kernow) is a county in the far southwest of England in the United Kingdom. Truro is the capital of the Unitary Authority that has administered Cornwall since 2009. Truro is also the only city. It has the cathedral of the Diocese of Truro. Cornwall is home to the Cornish Language and the Cornish people. The Duchy of Cornwall is an estate which belongs to the Prince of Wales (who is also the Duke of Cornwall), but only part of it is in Cornwall. Cornwall is split from Devon by the River Tamar. Cornwall is home to Newquay, a popular town and holiday resort.

[[Tintagel Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in England

Tintagel Castle is in Cornwall, a county in England.

Reginald, Earl of Cornwall built the castle on Tintagel Head (a piece of land by the sea) in about 1150. In Cornish legend, this is the place where the old Kings of Cornwall lived. Reginald built the castle for propaganda, not for military use; he wanted people to think of Camelot when they thought about him. Some people say King Arthur was born at the castle, because traditional stories say the King of Cornwall looked after him when he was a child.

The modern village of Tintagel was first called Trevena. Then, in the 1850s, it got a new name, to bring in tourism because of the King Arthur and Camelot legends. Really, Tintagel is only the name of land by the sea.

[[Gwyneth Paltrow]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, 1972 births, Living people

Gwyneth Kate Paltrow (born September 28, 1972) is an American actress and singer. She was born in Los Angeles, California. 

Her father was movie director Bruce Paltrow. Her mother is actress Blythe Danner. Her brother is director Jake Paltrow. Her uncle is singer-actor Harry Danner. Her half-cousin is actress Katherine Moennig. She studied Spanish in Talavera of the Queen, Spain. Paltrow married Coldplay singer Chris Martin on December 5, 2003. The couple separated in 2014. They have a daughter, Apple (born May 14, 2004) and son, Moses (born April 8, 2006). Since 2008, she plays Pepper Potts in the Marvel Cinematic Universe which is her most famous role.

[[Sarah Michelle Gellar]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Living people, Whedonverse

September 2020SMG

Sarah Michelle Gellar (born April 14, 1977) is an American actress. After several television acting roles during the 1990s, Gellar became famous for playing Buffy Summers in the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer. After Buffy, she started acting in movies. She has starred in the family movies Scooby-Doo (2002) and Scooby-Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed (2004), the movie Harvard Man (2001), and the horror movies The Return (2006), The Grudge 2 (2006), The Grudge (2004) and I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997). She won an award for her part in the 1999 movie Cruel Intentions.

[[Jennifer Garner]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American movie actors, Actors from Houston, Texas, Actors from West Virginia, American movie producers, American television actors, Golden Globe Award winners, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Jenny Anne Garner (born April 17, 1972) is a Golden Globe Award- and SAG Award-winning and Emmy Award-nominated American movie and television actress, and producer. She first became famous for her role as Sydney Bristow on Alias, a CIA agent. She was also in Juno, Pearl Harbor, and Dude, Where's My Car.

Garner joined the Ban Bossy campaign in 2014.

[[Heather Graham]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 1970 births, Living people

Heather Joan Graham (born January 29, 1970 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin) is an American actress.

Her father is a retired FBI agent. Her mother is a writer of books for children.  Her sister, Aimee, is an actress and writer. Graham's parents are Catholics. They did not want their daughter to make any movies about sex. She does not talk to her parents.

Graham was a student at the University of California, Los Angeles. She met James Woods when she was a student. She stopped going to college so she could become an actress.

Graham was in the movie Drugstore Cowboy in 1989. In 1997, She was in the movie Boogie Nights.  She played a character called "Roller Girl".  She played the character called "Felicity Shagwell" in the movie Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me in 1999.  She was in the movie From Hell in 2001, in which she played a character called "Mary Kelly".

She was in several episodes of the television series Scrubs in 2004 and 2005.

Graham appeared in advertisements for Garnier hair care products and for Skyy vodka.

Graham has dated several famous men. These include UK musician/actor Adam Ant, actors James Woods, Kyle McLachlan and Heath Ledger, and directors Stephen Hopkins and Edward Burns.

[[Christina Ricci]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from Santa Monica, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, American television actors, Living people, People from Montclair, New Jersey

Christina Ricci (born February 12, 1980) is an American actress.  She was born in Santa Monica, California and grew up in Montclair, New Jersey.

[[Julia Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia, BAFTA Award winning actors, Best Actress Academy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, 1967 births, Living people, Converts to Hinduism

Julia Fiona Roberts (born October 28, 1967) is an American actress and producer. She is best known for her roles in the movies Steel Magnolias (1989), Pretty Woman (1990), Runaway Bride (1998) and Erin Brockovich (2000). Roberts regularly plays characters of attractive powerful women. She has been among People Magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People in the world eight times. 

It is commonly mistaken that Julia's birth name is "Julie". Roberts has said in interviews that "Julie" was a nickname given to her by classmates in elementary school, and she never took well to it. She reverted to her original name "Julia Roberts" when she discovered that a "Julie Roberts" was already registered with the Screen Actors Guild. Roberts originally wanted to be a veterinarian (an animal doctor), but later studied journalism. When her brother, Eric Roberts, achieved success in Hollywood, Julia decided to try acting. Her first breakthrough came when she played in two youth-oriented movies called Mystic Pizza and Satisfaction, both filmed in 1987. Roberts' sister Lisa Roberts Gillan and niece Emma Roberts are actresses.

[[Angelina Jolie]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Satellite Award winners, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, Bisexual people, LGBT actors, LGBT people from California, LGBT producers, Movie producers from Los Angeles, California, Saturn Award winners

Angelina Jolie (dʒ; née Voight, formerly Jolie Pitt, born June 4, 1975) is an American actress, movie producer, screenwriter, and author. She is the daughter of Jon Voight, who is also an actor and former actress/model Marcheline Bertrand. Her full name is Angelina Jolie Voight, but she decided to go by Angelina Jolie. She grew up in Los Angeles and attended the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute. She began acting at about 12 years old, and since then has starred in many movies, including the Tomb Raider movies. She has also been in the movies Hackers, Gathering Evidence (U.S. title), and Gone in Sixty Seconds.

[[Lisa Kudrow]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Emmy Award winning actors, Webby Award winners

Lisa Valerie Kudrow (b. March 30, 1963 in Encino, California) is an Australian actress. She was best known for her roles as Ursula on Mad About You and Phoebe on Friends. Friends has been very popular lately and is still selling many copies, beating many popular shows even though it finished a long time ago. She also starred in P.S. I Love You playing the role Denise Hennessey.

[[Grace Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Road accident deaths, Deaths from stroke, 1929 births, 1982 deaths, Recipients of the Order pro merito Melitensi, Princes and princesses of Monaco

Grace Kelly (November 12, 1929 – September 14, 1982) was an American actress. She later married Prince Rainier III of Monaco and became Her Serene Highness The Princess of Monaco. With Prince Rainier, she had 3 children:

Kelly's father was an Irish American; her mother was a German American Her movies included three by Alfred Hitchock: Dial M for Murder, Rear Window, and To Catch a Thief. In 1955 she won an Academy Award for The Country Girl. She was the first actress to appear on a postage stamp. She was also mentioned in Billy Joel's song "We didn't start the fire" and in Mika's song "Grace Kelly" (2007). The classic head-cover of a silk scarf crossed under the chin and knotted at the side or nape of the neck is universally known as the "Grace Kelly." This chic look is still copied by many female Hollywood stars when they wish to retain a degree of anonymity in the public eye.

Kelly suffered a stroke which caused her to crash her car.

[[Elizabeth Taylor]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2011 deaths, Actors from London, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American activists, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Converts to Judaism, Deaths from congestive heart failure, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Jewish activists, Jewish American actors, Jewish British actors, Presidential Citizens Medal recipients, Former Roman Catholics, Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire

Dame Elizabeth "Liz" Rosemond Taylor DBE (February 27, 1932 – March 23, 2011) was a British-American actress. 

The movies she starred in were, National Velvet, Father of the Bride, A Place in the Sun, Giant, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, and Suddenly, Last Summer. She won the Academy Award for Best Actress for BUtterfield 8. She played the title role in Cleopatra, and married her costar Richard Burton. They appeared together in 11 films, including Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?. Taylor won a second Academy Award in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?. From the mid-1970s, she appeared less frequently in film, and made occasional appearances in television and theatre.

Her personal life included eight marriages and several life-threatening illnesses. From the mid-1980s, Taylor supported HIV and AIDS programs; she co-founded the American Foundation for AIDS Research in 1985, and the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation in 1993. She received the Presidential Citizens Medal, the Legion of Honour, the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and a Life Achievement Award from the American Film Institute. The American Film Institute named her seventh on their list of the "Greatest American Screen Legends". Taylor died of congestive heart failure in March 2011 at the age of 79 after suffering many years of ill health.

[[Hilary Swank]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Nebraska, American movie actors, American television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, People from Lincoln, Nebraska, BBC 100 Women

Hilary Swank (born July 30, 1974) is an Academy and Golden Globe Award-winning American actress. The is the second woman in the world to win two Oscars before thirty (the first one was Jodie Foster). Swank's movies include Million Dollar Baby and Freedom Writers. She will play Gail Getty in the 2018 television series Trust.

Swank was born in Lincoln, Nebraska. When she was nine she played her first role as Mowgli in her school's version of  "The Jungle Book" by Rudyard Kipling. Afterward she often was in school and university performances.

[[Nana Visitor]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Actors from New York City, 1957 births, Living people

Nana Visitor (born July 26, 1957) is an American actress. Visitor was born in New York City. She is most famous for playing Kira Nerys in the television series Star Trek: Deep Space Nine.

Visitor married fellow Star Trek actor Alexander Siddig in 1997. They had a son in 1996. Visitor and Siddig divorced in 2001.

Visitor is the niece of American actress Cyd Charisse.

[[Alexander Siddig]]

CATEGORIES: Sudanese people, 1965 births, Living people

Alexander Siddig (November 21, 1965) is a Sudanese actor.  Siddig is most famous for playing Dr Julian Bashir in the Star Trek television series Star Trek: Deep Space Nine.

Siddig married fellow Star Trek actor Nana Visitor in 1997.  They had a son in 1996. Siddig and Visitor divorced in 2001.

Siddig is the nephew of English actor Malcolm McDowell and of former Sudanese Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi.

[[Eiffel Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures completed in the 19th century, Buildings and structures in Paris, Towers in Europe

The Eiffel Tower (French: La Tour Eiffel, ɛfɛl, IPA pronunciation: "EYE-full" English; "eh-FEHL" French) is a landmark in Paris. It was built between 1887 and 1889 for the Exposition Universelle (World Fair). The Tower was the Exposition's main attraction.

[[Louvre]]

CATEGORIES: Art museums in France, Buildings and structures in Paris

The Louvre is a museum in Paris that has millions of visitors every year because of its art collection. It is the most visited art museum in the world.

The most famous piece of art in the Louvre is the Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci. Other paintings include works of Rembrandt, Giambattista Pittoni, Caravaggio, Rubens, Titian and Eugène Delacroix. 

There are also many statues inside the Louvre. The most famous statues are the Venus de Milo and the Winged Victory of Samothrace.

[[Venus de Milo]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Ancient Greek marble sculptures, Ancient Greek and Roman statues

The Venus de Milo is an ancient Greek statue. It is in the Louvre, a museum in Paris, France. The Venus de Milo represents Aphrodite, the goddess of love in Greek mythology. The statue is made of marble and is 203cm high. It is believed to be the work of Alexandros of Antioch. The Venus de Milo was found on 8 April 1820 on the Aegean island of Melos. King Louis XVIII of France presented the Venus de Milo to the Louvre in 1821. 

[[Aphrodite]]

CATEGORIES: Twelve Olympians

Aphrodite (Ancient Greek: Ἀφροδίτη, Aphrodítē) is the Ancient Greek goddess of love, beauty. She was also the goddess of procreation. Aphrodite is one of the Twelve Olympians. The most beautiful and refined of the goddesses, Aphrodite was married to Hephaestus, god of fire and metalworking. Aphrodite had numerous affairs with other beings, the most notable of these being Ares, the god of war.

In Homer's Iliad, one of the Oceanids.

In Hesiod's Theogony, however, Aphrodite is stated to have risen from sea foam, formed at the spot where Uranos' genitals landed, after Kronos castrated him and tossed them into the sea. Aphrodite's cult was centered on the islands of Cythera and Cyprus, both of which were claimed to be her birthplace. Her main festival was the Aphrodisia, which was celebrated annually every midsummer. The Charites (minor goddesses of grace and splendor) attended to Aphrodite and served as her handmaidens. Aphrodite's symbols include the dolphin, myrtle, rose, dove, sparrow, swan and pearl, and the dove, sparrow and swan were her sacred animals. The goddess Venus is her Roman equivalent. Aphrodite was quite often described as very beautiful, and was used as a point of comparison for female beauty - but just as she was beautiful, she just as smart and wise.

[[Venus (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Roman gods and goddesses

In Roman mythology, Venus is the goddess of love and beauty. She was the Roman version of the Greek Aphrodite and Etruscan Turan.

Her cult began in Ardea and Lavinium, Latium.  On August 18, 293 BC, the first temple to her was built . August 18 was then a festival called the Vinalia Rustica.  On April 1, the Veneralia was celebrated in honor of Venus Verticordia, the protector against vice.  On April 23, 215 BC, a temple was built on the Capitol dedicated to Venus Erycina to commemorate the Roman defeat at Lake Trasum.

Venus was also married to Vulcan, who was the god of fire, volcanoes and blacksmiths.  Julius Caesar claimed Venus Genetrix as his own personal, divine ancestress.

[[Jupiter (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Roman gods and goddesses

 

Jupiter (Latin: Iuppiter) is the king of the gods in Roman mythology. He was the god of the sky and thunder. His brother's name was Pluto and his sister was Ceres.

[[Minerva]]

CATEGORIES: Roman gods and goddesses

Minerva was the Roman goddess of crafts and wisdom. The Greeks called her Athena but the Romans didn't make her as warlike as Athena. As Minerva Medica she was goddess of medicine and doctors. Many coins showed her.

[[Athena]]

CATEGORIES: Twelve Olympians, National personifications

Athena is the Greek goddess of wisdom and war strategy. She is one of the Twelve Olympians. Athena's symbol is the owl, the wisest of the birds. She also had a shield called Aegis, which was a present given to her by Zeus. She is often shown with her helmet on and with her shield, the shield later had Medusa's head on it, after Peresus slayed the her, he gave the head of Medusa to Athena for safekeeping who put the head on her shield. 

Athena is the protector of Athens, Greece, a city named after her. The Parthenon, which is on the Acropolis in Athens, is her most famous temple. She also helped many heroes, including Heracles, Jason, and Odysseus, and is always seen with Nike, the goddess of victory. 

[[Salt Lake City]]

CATEGORIES: Salt Lake City, County seats in Utah, State capitals in the United States, Olympic cities, 1847 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Utah

Salt Lake City is a city in the United States of America. It is the capital and largest city of the state of Utah. It was founded by the Mormons and is the official headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is named after the Great Salt Lake, which it is near. The city's population was estimated at 191,180 in 2013.

The city was founded in 1847 by Brigham Young and his Mormon followers. They extensively irrigated and cultivated the arid valley. Due to its proximity to the Great Salt Lake, the city was originally named "Great Salt Lake City"–the word "great" was dropped from the official name in 1868. Although Salt Lake City is still home to the headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), less than half the population of Salt Lake City proper is Mormon today.

Immigration of international LDS members, mining booms, and the construction of the first transcontinental railroad initially brought economic growth, and the city was nicknamed the "Crossroads of the West". It was traversed by the Lincoln Highway, the first transcontinental highway, in 1913, and presently two major cross-country freeways, I-15 and I-80, intersect in the city. Salt Lake City has since developed a strong outdoor recreation tourist industry based primarily on skiing. It was host to the 2002 Winter Olympics. It is the industrial banking center of the United States.

[[Nagano, Nagano]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Olympic cities, Settlements in Nagano Prefecture

Nagano (長野市) is a city in Japan. It is the capital of Nagano Prefecture (長野県).

Nagano has been recognized as a core city since 1999.

As of October 1, 2007, 2,182,190 people lived in Nagano.

[[Barcelona]]

CATEGORIES: Barcelona, Olympic cities, Cities with more than a million inhabitants, Capital cities in Spain

Barcelona is the capital city of Catalonia, which is a region of Spain. Barcelona is the largest city on the Mediterranean coast. The city is between the rivers of Llobregat and Besòs, and south of the Pyrenees mountains. It has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa in the Koeppen climate classification).

In 1992, Barcelona hosted the Summer Olympic Games. Many new parks were opened and other significant changes to the city were made. One example is opening the new beaches in the Poble Nou area.

In 2007, about 1.6 million people lived in Barcelona. Around 3.1 million people live in the Metropolitan Area and 4.9 million people live in the Urban Region. Barcelona is the second most populated city in Spain, and the tenth in the European Union.

Barcelona is home to football team F.C. Barcelona.

[[Denise Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: Black British sportspeople, British female athletes, British Olympic bronze medalists, British Olympic gold medalists, Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2000 Summer Olympics, Sports commentators, Sportspeople from West Midlands (county), Strictly Come Dancing participants, 1972 births, Living people

Denise Lewis (born 27 August 1972) is a British retired athlete from West Bromwich. She won the bronze medal in the heptathlon at the 1996 Summer Olympics. She won the gold medal in the heptathlon at the 2000 Summer Olympics.

In late 2004, she was a contestant in the second series of Strictly Come Dancing.

[[Michael Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, African-American track and field athletes, American male athletes, American Olympic gold medalists, American track and field athletes, Sportspeople from Dallas, Texas, Sprinters

Michael Duane Johnson (born in September 13, 1967), Dallas, Texas is an American retired sprinter. He is widely considered the greatest long sprinter of all time. During his time on the track, he established world records for the 400 m (43.18 Seville, Spain), indoor 400 m, indoor 300 m, 200 m, and 4 × 400 m relay. Due to these achievements, and due to the vast difference between the 200 m and 400 m, Johnson left little doubt that he is the greatest sprinter of all time. He won four Olympic gold medals and eight World Championships gold medals.

A fifth Olympic gold medal was taken back when it was learned that Johnson's teammates had cheated by using drugs.

Johnson had a unique upright posture when he ran so that he looked like a duck walk, which gave him the nickname The Duck. His running gait did not make sense for running fast, but somehow worked. He won almost every race that he ever ran.

He was the first athlete to win both the 200m and 400m sprints in the same Olympic Games (Atlanta, Georgia).

He retired in 2001, and is a sports commentator on TV. He was a contestant in the 2010 season of The Celebrity Apprentice.

[[Icelandic]]

Icelandic might mean:

[[Bronze Age]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history, Periods and ages in history

The Bronze Age is the time period when people made tools from an alloy (a mixture of metals) called bronze. Bronze is a mixture of mainly copper and tin: usually nine parts copper to one part tin. Materials like wood and stone were also used for tools, but bronze was better for cutting and chopping, and was easy to shape. The Bronze Age was not at the same time everywhere, because different groups of people began to use bronze at different times. In Western Europe, the Bronze Age lasted from about 2000 BC until 800 BC. In the Middle East, it started about a thousand years earlier. For example, bronze was first used in Mesopotamia around 3300 BC.

Archaeologists think that people became more organised in the Bronze Age, because the making of metal tools was difficult and needed certain skills. The people who had these new skills would have been important. The new metal tools were bought, sold, or traded across larger distances.

Later, when iron tools spread, the Bronze Age ended and the Iron Age started. A reason for iron replacing bronze is that tin ore, a rock in which tin may be found, is much more rare than iron ore. Copper tools were less useful because they were too soft.  

[[Louis XIV]]

CATEGORIES: 1638 births, 1715 deaths, Deaths from gangrene, Kings and Queens of France, House of Bourbon, Dauphins and Dauphines of France, Princes of Andorra

Louis XIV, also popularly known as the Sun King (5 September 1638–1 September 1715) was the King of France and King of Navarre from 14 May 1643 until his death. He was a king for 72 years. This was the longest recorded rule of any European monarch. He is often seen as the typical example of absolutism. He was the older of two brothers the other being Philippe. The two were very close and Philippe was later created the Duke of Orléans.

[[Olympic Games]]

CATEGORIES: Olympic Games, Multi-sport events

The Olympic Games (Jeux olympiques) is an important international event featuring summer and winter sports. Summer Olympic Games and Winter Olympic Games are held every four years. Originally, the ancient Olympic Games were held in Ancient Greece at Olympia. The first games were in 776 BC. They were held every four years until the 6th century AC. The first "modern" Olympics happened in 1896 in Athens, Greece. Athletes participate in the Olympics Games to represent their country.

Over time the Olympics have become bigger. In old times, women were not allowed, but now there are women's events. The Winter Games were created for ice and snow sports. The Paralympic Games were created for athletes with physical disabilities. As well, the Olympics became bigger with the addition of the Youth Olympic Games for teenage athletes. World War I and World War II led to the cancellation of the 1916, 1940, and 1944 Games. As the decision-making body, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) is responsible for choosing the host city for each Olympic Games. The IOC is also responsible for choosing what sports are in the games. The creator of modern Olympics is Baron Pierre de Coubertin.

The celebration of the Games includes many rituals and symbols, such as Olympic flag and torch, as well as the opening and closing ceremonies. The first, second, and third-place finishers in each event receive, respectively, gold, silver, and bronze medals.

[[Iron Age]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient history, Periods and ages in history

The Iron Age is the period after the Bronze Age. Iron production took place in Anatolia at least as early as 1200 BC, with some  evidence pointing to even earlier dates.

In the Mesopotamian states of Sumer, Akkad and Assyria, the use of iron reaches far back, to perhaps to 3000 BC. One of the earliest smelted iron artifacts known was a dagger with an iron blade found in a Hattic tomb in Anatolia, dating from 2500 BC. The widespread use of iron weapons which replaced bronze weapons rapidly disseminated throughout the Near East (North Africa, southwest Asia) by the beginning of the 1st millennium BC.

Before this time, people used bronze or flint tools, and pottery. They farmed, and lived in communities. Most of Europe, Africa and Asia reached the Iron Age by 500 BC. It is a period of prehistory because, though iron and steel continue to be important even today, the "Iron Age" is defined as ending when people began to write their history.

Iron is easy to find, but hard to make into tools. It melts at a higher temperature than bronze. When blacksmiths learned how to make iron tools, they were able to make many of them. With more and better tools, people could do more. For example, more people could own a metal plough. They could farm their fields better and grow more crops. Some people invented coins to help buy and sell their crops and their iron tools. 

Bronze weapons and armor were no match for those made of iron, so many peoples who did not have iron were conquered by those who did. Soldiers used iron shields and helmets in battle.

[[Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment, Media

Entertainment is something that gives pleasure, or distracts a person from daily life, like a sport or game that excites people and keeps their attention. Some entertainment, like horror movies, can also make people feel sad or scared. Other entertainment, like comedy shows, are funny.

Entertainment can help reduce stress.

Entertainments is a form of activity that holds the attention and interest of an audience, or gives pleasure and delight. it can be an idea or an activity or even a task. 

[[Open Site]]

CATEGORIES: Encyclopedias, Learning, Websites

Open Site is a free internet encyclopedia created by many editors. Anyone can apply to become an editor or donate content.

[[Coca-Cola]]

CATEGORIES: Coca-Cola, Atlanta, Georgia, Soft drinks

Coca-Cola, is a carbonated, sweetened soft drink and is the world's best-selling drink. A popular nickname for Coca-Cola is Coke. The Coca-Cola Company claims that the beverage is sold in more than 200 countries. The company's headquarters are in Atlanta, Georgia. Coca-Cola's main rival is Pepsi because of the similar taste of their main product. Coca-Cola has 7 cubes of sugar, whereas Pepsi has 8 cubes of sugar. The Coca-Cola Company is proud to have a long history of sponsoring major events, organizations and projects around the world. Among their most well known sponsorships are American Idol, Apple iTunes, BET Network, NASCAR, NBA, NCAAmarvel and the Olympic Games. After their products were put back on sale in Myanmar in 2012, the only countries that Coca-Cola can not be bought officially are Cuba and North Korea, due to trade bans with the US.

[[Sulfur]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements, Nonmetals

Sulfur (or sulphur) is a chemical element. The symbol for sulfur is S, and its atomic number is 16.

[[Aluminium]]

CATEGORIES: Aluminium

Aluminium (in American and Canadian English also: aluminum) is a chemical element. The symbol for aluminium is Al, and its atomic number is 13. Aluminium is the most abundant metal. It is a mononuclidic element.

[[Drawing]]

CATEGORIES: Art

Drawing is a way of making a picture. Drawings are created by making lines on a surface. Long lines make up the shapes and small lines make the textures. Drawings can be images of real-life or abstract images showing ideas that cannot be seen in the real world.

A drawing is the art created this way. Examples of things used to mark with are pencils, chalk, charcoal, crayons, pastels, markers, wax colored pencils, pen and ink.

Artists have been drawing for many centuries. They draw on paper or on other surfaces on which the marks show up.

Drawing techniques include sketching, shading, cubism and many more.

Between 1912 and 1948 art competitions were a part of the Olympics.

Drawings can be made using many different media. It can be multimedia. 

[[Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas, 1845 establishments in the United States

Texas (ˈ, also), officially the State of Texas, is a state in the South Central Region of the United States. It is the second largest US state by total area (after Alaska) with 268,596 sq mi (695,662 km2) and population (after California) with nearly 29 million people as of 2019. Its largest cities are Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth, San Antonio, El Paso, and Austin, the capital city.

Texas became the 28th state in the United States in 1845. Texas has been controlled by Spain, France, the Confederate States of America, and Mexico. It declared its independence from Mexico in 1836. It was its own country, the Republic of Texas, for 9 years (1836–1845). It is called the "Lone Star State" and its flag has one star.

There are many tourist attractions in Texas. Fort Worth is known for its stockyards. Amarillo is known for the cattle business and stockyards. In Dallas, industrial technology companies including Texas Instruments and EDS have their home offices. San Antonio has The Alamo. Houston has the Johnson Space Center. Austin has the University of Texas at Austin. Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas Tech University in Lubbock, Baylor University in Waco and the University of North Texas in Denton are other important universities in the state.

[[Prussia]]

CATEGORIES: 1525 establishments, House of Hohenzollern, Prussia, States and territories disestablished in the 20th century, 1947 disestablishments, 16th century establishments in Europe, 1940s disestablishments in Europe

Prussia (ˈ; Preußen, ˈpʁɔʏsn̩, Old Prussian: Prūsa or Prūsija) was a series of countries. Originally it was a historically prominent German state that originated in 1525. Mostly, the name is used for the Kingdom of Prussia, which was in northern Europe. It was part of Germany for a while, and it included land in Poland, France, and Lithuania. The name "Prussian" has had a lot of different meanings in the past and now:

In 1934, Germany stopped using the name Prussia for that area, and in 1947 the Allies abolished the state of Prussia and divided its territory among themselves and the new States of Germany. Today, the name is only for historical, geographical, or cultural use.

The name Prussia comes from the Borussi or Prussi people who lived in the Baltic region and spoke the Old Prussian language. Ducal Prussia was a fiefdom of the Kingdom of Poland until 1660, and Royal Prussia was part of Poland until 1772. In the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, most German-speaking Prussians started thinking of themselves as part of the German nation. They thought the Prussian way of life was very important: 

From the late 18th century, Prussia had a lot of power in northern Germany and throughout central Europe; it was the strongest in politics and economics, and it had the most people. After Chancellor Otto von Bismarck dissolved the German Confederation, Prussia annexed almost all of northern Germany. In 1871, after the Franco-Prussian War, von Bismarck created the German Empire, and Prussia was the center of the empire, with the Kings of Prussia being the Emperors of Germany.

[[Apocrypha]]

The Apocrypha are religious texts that are in some versions of the Catholic Bible. Other versions omit them. The word comes from Ancient Greek ἀπόκρυφα (apokrypha). Apocrypha means those that were hidden. Generally, the term is applied to writings that were not part of the canon. There are several reasons why these texts were not included in the canon. The texts might only have been known to few people, or they might have been left out because their content does not fit well into that of the other books of the Bible. Some of the apocrypha were written at a later date, and were therefore not included. 

The Authorized King James Version called these books ‘Apocrypha’. It separated them, because the Bible said so in 2 Esdras 14:46, But keep the seventy last, that thou mayest deliver them only to such as be wise among the people: For in them is the spring of understanding, the fountain of wisdom, and the stream of knowledge.

Roman Catholic Bibles have these books in the Old Testament. They do not call them Apocrypha. They call them deuterocanonical, which means that they belong to the second canon. Canon just means an official list of literary works accepted as representing a field. The first list is of books first written in Hebrew. This second list is of books first written in Greek.

[[Sodium]]

CATEGORIES: Alkali metals, Chemical elements

Sodium (symbol Na, from the Latin name natrium) is the chemical element number 11 in the periodic table of elements. It follows that its nucleus includes 11 protons, and 11 electrons orbit around it (according to the simplified model known as "Niels Bohr atom"). Even if many isotopes can be artificially made, all decay in a short time. As a result, all sodium found in nature (mainly in sea water) has the composition 11Na23, meaning that the nucleus includes 12 neutrons. The atomic mass of sodium is 22.9898; if it is rounded, it would be 23.

[[Dice]]

CATEGORIES: Dice games

Dice are objects used in games when something random needs to be done, such as moving a game piece a random number of places on a board. Most dice are cubes that have the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 on the faces. Dice are sometimes made in other polyhedral shapes than cubes, but the six-sided die (die is the singular of "dice") is the most common. A die is usually rolled by the player’s hand. When adding together opposite sides of typical cubical dice, the sum is always 7.

Some games are played with two or more dice and some use only one. Some games that use dice are Monopoly, Yahtzee, Risk, and many more. Dice with different numbers of sides, like those used in Dungeons & Dragons, are called polyhedral dice.

Weights can be put inside a die to make it only land on a certain number once it is rolled. 

[[Matrix (mathematics)]]

CATEGORIES: Linear algebra

In mathematics, a matrix (plural: matrices) is a rectangle of numbers, arranged in rows and columns. The rows are each left-to-right (horizontal) lines, and the columns go top-to-bottom (vertical). The top-left cell is at row 1, column 1 (see diagram at right).

Many natural sciences use matrices quite a lot. In many universities, courses about matrices (usually called linear algebra) are taught very early, sometimes even in the first year of studies. Matrices are also very common in computer science, engineering, physics, economics, and statistics.

[[Hawaiian]]

Hawaiian can be:

[[British Isles]]

CATEGORIES: British Isles

The British Isles are an archipelago (a group of islands) in north-western Europe.  They have a long geographical and geological history. The first people were in Britain by 800,000 years ago (Happisburgh footprints).

The biggest islands are called Great Britain and Ireland, followed by the Isle of Man.  Great Britain, the biggest island, is home to three countries. These are England, Wales and Scotland.  The island of Ireland is divided into Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. Great Britain is the biggest island of Europe and Ireland is the third biggest.

England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland join together to make the United Kingdom.

Some people include the Channel Islands of Jersey, Guernsey, Sark in the term "British Isles", but they are a lot closer to France than to Great Britain.  In politics, they are British islands but in geology they are French islands.

The term tends not to be used in the Republic of Ireland because many people feel it implies that Ireland is politically British.March 2021

The writings of the Roman cartographer Ptolemy used the name "Great Britain" for the larger island in the 2nd century AD. He used the name "Megale Britannia" or "Great Britain" (Μegálē Brettanía) to show the difference between this island and Ireland. For Ireland, Ptolemy used the name "Mikra Britannia" or "Little Britain" (Mikrá Brettanía).

[[Mandarin Chinese]]

CATEGORIES: Sino-Tibetan languages, Tonal languages

Mandarin Chinese or simply Mandarin (En-us-Mandarin.ogg; 官话) is the language of government and education of the Chinese mainland and Taiwan, with the notable exceptions of Hong Kong and Macau where a local dialect of Chinese called Cantonese is more often used.

Mandarin is one of five major regional languages of China. It spreads wider than any other regional variety, from the whole northern part of China to Yunnan Province in the southwest corner of China. In that big area there are many regional differences in vocabulary, so somebody who moves from Beijing to Yunnan could not understand people there who were speaking their own dialect, Yunnanhua. The problem is bigger than for a person in Great Britain or the United States to go to Australia. Therefore, starting in the 1920s, the Chinese government set up a national language based on the Beijing dialect and on the most widely understood words and pronunciations.

Mandarin is a standard language. It is nobody's native language, but a good average between various language forms and a common language everyone can understand and communicate with. Although it is based on the Beijing dialect, it is not the same as Beijing dialect.

Schools use a dialect called Standard Mandarin, Putonghua (普通话/普通話) meaning "common (spoken) language" or Hanyu (汉语/漢語) meaning "language of the Han". In places such as Malaysia, it is known as Huayu (华语/華語). In Taiwan, it is known as Guoyu (国语/國語) meaning "national language." There are some minor differences in these standards.

Mandarin is spoken by over 800 million people around the world, more than any other language. Most people emigrating from the Greater China region now speak Mandarin, while in past centuries most spoke Cantonese or Taishanese, another local Chinese dialect.

Standard Mandarin is one of the six official languages at the United Nations. The others are English, French, Spanish, Russian and Arabic.

[[Algeria]]

CATEGORIES: Algeria, Members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, 1962 establishments in Africa

Algeria (en-us-Algeria.ogg or ɔː), officially the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, is a former French colony and the largest country in Africa. It is part of the Maghreb region of Northwest Africa. Algiers is the capital. It is bordered by the Mediterranean Sea in the north, Tunisia in the northeast, Libya in the east, Niger in the southeast, Mauritania and Mali in the southwest, Western Sahara in the west and Morocco in the northwest. It is also the largest country in the Arab world.

[[Plymouth]]

CATEGORIES: Unitary authorities in Devon, Plymouth, Devon, Ports and harbours of the United Kingdom

Plymouth is a city and unitary authority in Devon, South West England. It is on the south coast. It has a large port at Devonport used by the Royal Navy. Nearly 250,000 people live in Plymouth and it is the largest place in Devon. West of Plymouth is the mouth of the River Tamar which is called the Hamoaze. Plymouth means mouth of the River Plym.

[[Plymouth (disambiguation)]]

Plymouth is the name of various places:

Other meanings of the word Plymouth are:

[[George Washington]]

CATEGORIES: 1732 births, 1799 deaths, American deists, American esotericists, American generals, American revolutionaries, Businesspeople from Virginia, Chancellors of the College of William & Mary, Deaths from pneumonia, Episcopalians, Founding Fathers of the United States, Freemasons, George Washington, Military people from Virginia, Politicians from Virginia, 18th-century American politicians, Slavers

George Washington (February 22, 1732 – December 14, 1799) was the first President of the United States from 1789 to 1797. Before he became president, he was the commander in chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States.

[[February 22]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Abraham Lincoln]]

CATEGORIES: 1809 births, 1865 deaths, Abraham Lincoln, American abolitionists, American lawyers, American murder victims, Assassinated United States Presidents, Deaths by firearm, Politicians from Springfield, Illinois, Politicians from Kentucky, United States representatives from Illinois, American Civil War, 19th-century American politicians

Abraham Lincoln (February 12, 1809  – April 15, 1865) was an American politician. He was the 16th president of the United States. He was president from 1861 to 1865, during the American Civil War. Just five days after most of the Confederate forces had surrendered and the war was ending, John Wilkes Booth assassinated Lincoln. Lincoln was the first president of the United States to be assassinated. Lincoln has been remembered as the "Great Emancipator" because he worked to end slavery in the United States.

[[February 12]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[April 15]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Calvin Coolidge]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 births, 1933 deaths, Calvin Coolidge, Deaths from coronary thrombosis, US Republican Party politicians, Governors of Massachusetts, Politicians from Vermont, 20th-century American politicians, Massachusetts Republicans

Calvin Coolidge (born John Calvin Coolidge Jr.; July 4, 1872 – January 5, 1933) was the 30th president of the United States between 1923 and 1929. He was a conservative who supported business and lower taxes.

[[Harry S. Truman]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1972 deaths, American military personnel of World War I, American people of World War II, American Presbyterians, Anti-Communists, Colonels, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Missouri, Harry S. Truman, People from Independence, Missouri, People of the Korean War, Time People of the Year, United States senators from Missouri, US Democratic Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians

Harry S. Truman (May 8, 1884 – December 26, 1972) was the 33rd president of the United States, from 1945 to 1953. He became president when President Franklin D. Roosevelt died in office.

As president, Truman made important foreign policy decisions, such as using atomic weapons on Japan to end World War II; repairing Europe (which was destroyed during the war); beginning the Cold War, and getting the U.S. involved in the Korean War.

[[John Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1735 births, 1826 deaths, Ambassadors of the United States, American lawyers, American Protestants, American revolutionaries, Deaths from heart failure, Federalist party (US) politicians, Founding Fathers of the United States, Harvard University alumni, John Adams, Politicians from Massachusetts, Presidents of the United States, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Unitarians, Vice Presidents of the United States, 19th-century American politicians, 18th-century American politicians

John Adams, Jr. (October 30, 1735 – July 4, 1826) was the second president of the United States (1797–1801), and father of the sixth president, John Quincy Adams. He was also the first vice president of the United States (1789–1797).

Adams was born in Braintree, Massachusetts. He was the son of Lt. Col. John Adams, Sr. (1691-1761) and Susanna Boylston (1708-1797), and he was the cousin of the philosopher Samuel Adams. He went to Harvard College. He married Abigail Adams in 1764.

[[Bill Clinton]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, 1992 United States presidential candidates, 1996 United States presidential candidates, 20th-century American politicians, 21st-century American politicians, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American Baptists, American lawyers, American LGBT rights activists, American progressives, American saxophonists, Governors of Arkansas, Hillary Rodham Clinton, Musicians from Arkansas, Musicians from New York City, People from Hope, Arkansas, Political scandals in the United States, Politicians from New York City, Rhodes scholars, Time People of the Year, US Democratic Party politicians, Writers from Arkansas, Writers from New York City, Yale University alumni

William Jefferson "Bill" Clinton (born William Jefferson Blythe III; August 19, 1946) is an American politician and humanitarian activist. He was the 42nd president of the United States from 1993 to 2001. Before he was president, Clinton was the governor of Arkansas from 1979 to 1981 and 1983 to 1992, as well as the attorney general of Arkansas from 1977 to 1979. 

He took office at the end of the Cold War. Clinton was the first president from the baby boom generation. He was 46 years old when he was elected and the third youngest president. He was impeached in 1998 for lying about his sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky. Clinton was the second president to be impeached. 

He is married to Hillary Rodham Clinton, who was the 67th United States Secretary of State from 2009 to 2013, U.S. senator from New York from 2001 to 2009, and the Democratic nominee for president in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.

[[Yield]]

CATEGORIES: Finance

In economics, the yield is how much money somebody is paid each year for leaving his or her money invested somewhere.  Unlike a corporate dividend, a yield is fairly certain, unless there is a bankruptcy. This means that somebody usually knows how much money they are going to make from their yield ahead of time.

Yields can be different because of inflation. However, there is usually an order for which are most risky and which are the least: the least risky instruments, such as treasury bonds, yield the least, then safe and "guaranteed" instruments like long-term deposits, then overnight deposits, and so on to the various municipal bond and corporate bonds. Extremely risky instruments with high yield are usually called junk bonds.

[[Moral purchasing]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics

Moral purchasing is when a person uses moral reasoning to decide what to buy. For example, when a person chooses to buy local goods instead of those from other countries, helps neighbours and processes that one can point to quickly.

[[Social network]]

CATEGORIES: Relationships, Social groups

A social network is a set of people who interact. This includes group organizations. The social relationships may include friendship/affect, communication, economic transactions, interactions, kinship, authority/hierarchy, trust, social support, diffusion, contagion, and so on. 

Calling social relationships a network calls attention to the pattern or structure of the set of relationships.

A community social network is the pattern of relationships among a set of people and/or organizations in a community. Each of these networks can involve social support, give people a sense of community, and 

lead them to help and protect each other.

How big a personal network becomes depends on the individual and the type of relationships considered. The set of people that a person knows well or with whom a person frequently interacts seldom exceeds several hundred. As the size of a network grows, keeping relationships is strained by the size. There is a so-called "Law of 150" which suggests that about 150 people is the best size for a village or large clan though most people live in much bigger towns. Some experts think that a corporation has an ideal size of about 70 people: these people and their spouses would also make a large social network.

The free rider problem is that someone uses the social network but does not give help when needed. Social networks are vulnerable to them, since the circumstances where help is required, like disasters, occur by surprise. It might happen that someone cannot help at that one time - it might also happen that they are not there the next time. Only slowly does it become obvious who is and is not contributing to the safety of the group, or who is avoiding this duty.

Social networks are held together by common interest. This may be employment, common interest in a sport or pastime, a religion (a mosque, church or temple is almost always a center of a social network). Often the network has an identity of its own which is quite real, even though it may have no official recognition. Networks may be centered on places, or on families, or on worldwide communities with common interests. 

[[Cabal]]

CATEGORIES: Forms of government

A cabal is a group of people who try to control things in a secret way. Cabals are often an important part of a conspiracy theory.

Sometimes people say "There Is No Cabal", or use the abbreviation TINC to mean "There Is No Cabal". The joke is that since a cabal is necessarily secret, only those who are in the cabal can know.

[[Creating]]

CATEGORIES: Art

Creating is making new things that have not existed before, usually by combining two or three things that existed.  Art is almost always called creative, but so are other activities like music, mathematics, technology, business, craft, building, gardening and forestry, if they combine things to get new things.

When several people cooperate in more than one process of creating, that is a creative network.  This cuts risk since anything creative involves some chance that it will simply not work.

What is "not creative" is usually called imitative, and includes anything that is mostly trying not to do what has never been done – like law, sports, science, war and especially education.  These involve more direct competition, so risk comes from the competitor who may do it better.  The word team is used for such groups.

Most people fear change and new things, and so what is most stable and considered important by society tends to be imitative and done in teams.  But unless society encourages creating it loses out to others by competition in business or technology, so there must be some creative networks, somewhere, in labs or art studios.

Views of control of creative work also depend very much on religious and spiritual views of nature (or a creator) creating Man, according to economist Lester Thurow.  Those ethical traditions that see "Man in the image of God" have created legal codes (see guild, intellectual right, intellectual interest, intellectual property) to tightly control what they are creating or have created.  These are now the basis of organizations such as WIPO or ICANN.  Often, such laws also create control over things which are merely found, not created.

Many people give away what they have created and never think about it as property – other people try to control it and get paid every time anyone sees it – or even every time they just talk about it.

Wikipedia uses the GNU FDL which is a content license that tries to get people to combine what they are creating, with no one clearly in control.  This is considered strange by many people, who are uncomfortable with that idea, or seek to control some aspect of it themselves.

[[Human science]]

CATEGORIES: Social sciences

Human science is the science of humans:  what makes them different from animals, and their limits, which tend to be the same as those of other animals.  Because human bodies are animal bodies, human science is part of biology which leads to Life Science.  However human behaviour includes the use of words, measures, numbers, knowing time and having memory, and such habits as trade - thus economics and psychology are considered to be part of human science.  A general human science is anthropology which studies only the differences between humans and near relatives.

One important debate in human science is whether the exchange of culture (or in economics instructional capital), is only among humans or if it also goes on among our Great Ape near relatives.  If so, then culture is part of primatology and there is no clear line between human science and life sciences.

Another name for human science is Social Science, since the most complex thing about humans is how they relate to each other in society.  The most general social science is ethics, or economics, depending on your point of view.

However, life science also deals with humans as objects of study (notably in medicine), while hard science such as chemistry deals with humans as the observer who does the study - sets the scale at which observation can happen, incurs observer effects - as studied in philosophy of science.

Often sciences have different names based on whether they study humans or not.  For instance economics is the study of how humans make a living, while ecology is the study of how non-humans make a living.  Medicine is normally restricted to humans while veterinary medicine refers to the same techniques made on other species.  One relies more on ethics and less on economics when dealing with humans, at least according to any ethical tradition.

The living, social, and sensory observing aspects of humans are probably all part of the human sciences to the degree they affect how humans view themselves.

Specific human sciences are (in addition to anthropology and ethics and economics) include psychology, sociology and linguistics.  There is debate as to whether mathematics is something human or if it is universal - see philosophy of mathematics on this.

[[Flaying]]

CATEGORIES: Torture, Punishments

Flaying is a form of torture, mutilation, and execution.  It is the act of stripping the skin and flesh from the bones.  Flaying an enemy while alive is an ancient practice.  Accounts attribute the practice to the ancient Assyrians, who were said to flay the skin from a captured enemy or rebellious ruler and nail it to the wall of his city, as warning to all who would defy their power.  Searing or cutting the flesh from the body was sometimes used as part of the public execution of traitors in medieval Europe.  A similar mode of execution was used as late as the early 18th century in France; one such episode is graphically recounted in the opening chapter of Michel Foucault's Discipline and Punish (1979).

[[Rice]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Rice

Rice (Oryza sativa) is a type of cereal and food. In origin, it is a swamp grass. It is eaten as staple food in many parts of Asia. It is grown in warm parts of the world, mainly Asia, Africa, northern Italy, and the west coast of North America.

Rice accounts for 80% of the calories eaten in Asia, or one-fifth of the calories eaten worldwide by humans. It is the agricultural commodity with the third-highest worldwide production (rice, 741.5 million tonnes in 2014), after sugarcane (1.9 billion tonnes) and maize (1.0 billion tonnes). However, judged by value, the world trade in wheat is greater than all other crops combined. All these cereals are grasses. 

Rice used to be the main diet in many countries. Various kinds of food processing prepare rice for eating. It is usually cooked. In some areas, such as Spain, rice is first fried in olive oil or butter, then cooked with water or soup. In other areas, such as India, rice is eaten with sauce, curry, or soup. Rice can also be used to make alcohol, such as Japanese sake rice wine.

Rice is believed to have been first grown in ancient southern China and India around 2500 BC. Rice-growing was brought to Japan possibly in the 1st century BC, and became popular during the 2nd century and the 3rd century. From India, rice spread to southern Europe and Africa.

Alluvial loamy and clayey soil is ideal for growing rice. The rice crop needs about 24°C or above with minor variations during sowing, growing and harvesting seasons. It grows well in the areas where rainfall is above 100cm. Deltas, river valleys, coastal plains and terraced fields in mountainous regions are ideal for its cultivation.

Rice is usually planted in a flat field filled with water. Before cropping, the water is drained from the field. Before farmers developed a good farming system and fertilizers, they used to let lands rest for 1 to 2 years while farming in other lands. 

In some hot areas, close to the equator, farmers do double-cropping which means raising two crops one year.

Rice contains a lot of carbohydrates. There are different ways of milling rice. Brown rice has only had the outer layer removed. It contains more fibre than the completely milled white rice.

[[Yoga]]

CATEGORIES: Meditation, India

Yoga is an old discipline from India. It is both spiritual and physical. Yoga uses breathing techniques, exercise and meditation. It helps to improve health and happiness. Yoga is the Sanskrit word for union. Patanjali was a pioneer of classical yoga. He defined yoga as "the cessation of the modification of the mind" (stopping changing the mind).

A person doing yoga will move from one posture (called asana) to another, but there are also other aspects which are important in yoga, such as breath-work, mantras, mudras (postures of the hands and fingers), meditation and much more (for more information, check out the Yoga Sutras). For example, the "sun-salutation" contains 12 poses of asanas, one after the other, and is said to help balance body and soul. There is a specific mantra for each asana. The "sun-salutation" is popularly known as "Suryanamaskar".

[[Human development theory]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Even though economics is all about choice on the basis of what is available rather than what should be available, the big question relates to who decides how resources should be distributed and how economics can embrace a trade-off between different groups which each seek to make the most of their allocation of resources. If "what should be" cannot be incorporated, the subject of economics will be as dry as desert as described by Ayn Rand. The challenge therefore is to construct a model combining "what is" to "what should be" and make the same acceptable to common man as well as politicians. Not being able to sell the idea as such is a defeat to the discipline. The issue is that of influence and not of theory, as Adam Smith perceived that no group of business men ever met other than to exploit the consumer.

[[Cattle]]

CATEGORIES: Bovines, Domesticated animals, Basic English 850 words

Cattle is a word for certain mammals that belong to the genus Bos.  Cattle may be cows, bulls, oxen, or calves.  Cattle are the most common type of large domesticated hoofed animals. They are a prominent modern member of the subfamily Bovinae.

Cattle are large grazing animals with two-toed or cloven hooves and a four-chambered stomach.  This stomach is an adaptation to help digest tough grasses. Cattle can be horned or polled (or hornless), depending on the breed. The horns come out on either side of the head above the ears and are a simple shape, usually curved upwards but sometimes down. Cattle usually stay together in groups called herds. One male, called a bull will usually have a number of cows in a herd as his harem. The cows usually give birth to one calf a year, though twins are also known to be born. The calves have long strong legs and can walk a few minutes after they are born, so they can follow the herd.

Cattle are native to many parts of the world except the Americas, Australia and New Zealand. Cattle have been domesticated for about 9,000 years. They are used for milk, meat, transport, entertainment, and power.

[[Friend]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

[[Quick]]

Quick may refer to:

[[Thunder]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Weather, Severe weather

Thunder is a very loud sound that is made sometimes during a very big rain storm.

Thunder is so loud, it can be heard from a very far distance.

It can sound like a boom, a crash, or a rumble.

Thunder is made when lightning strikes.

The energy from the lightning heats up the air so much that it makes a kind of explosion.

When lightning is very near, thunder will be heard soon after the lightning flash, and the sound will be very loud.  If the lightning is farther away, the thunder will be a few seconds or many seconds after the lightning. People can guess how far away the lightning is by counting the number of seconds between the time they see the lightning and hear the thunder.

[[1]]

CATEGORIES: 1

The year 1 (I) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar. The year started on a Monday in the Gregorian calendar. It was the first year of the 1st century and 1st millennium.

It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Paullus. The denomination 1 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the main method in Europe for naming years. The year before this is 1 BC in the widely used Julian calendar.

[[2]]

CATEGORIES: 0s

The year 2 (II) was a common year that started on Sunday, according to the Julian calendar. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Tuesday.

At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Vinicius and Varus. It was the 2nd year of the 1st century.

[[3]]

CATEGORIES: 0s

The year 3 (III) was a common year which started on a Monday. according to the Julian calendar. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Wednesday. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lamia and Servilius. The year is called 3 since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the usual method in Europe for naming years.  It was the 3rd year of the 1st century.

[[4]]

CATEGORIES: 4

The year 4 (IV) was a leap year which started on a Tuesday, according to the Julian calendar. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Thursday. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Catus and Saturninus. It was called the fourth year since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the usual method in Europe for naming years. It was the 4th year of the 1st century.

[[5]]

CATEGORIES: 0s

5 (V) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Thursday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Saturday. It was known as the Year of the Consulship of Messalla and Cinna.  It was the 5th year of the 1st century.

It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

[[6]]

CATEGORIES: 0s

6 (VI) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Friday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Sunday. It was the 6th year of the 1st century.

[[7]]

CATEGORIES: 0s

7 (VII) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Saturday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Monday. It was the 7th year of the 1st century.

[[8]]

CATEGORIES: 0s

8 (VIII) is a leap year of the Julian calendar which started on a Sunday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Tuesday. It was the 8th year of the 1st century.

[[9]]

CATEGORIES: 9

9 (IX) is a common year of the Julian calendar which started on a Tuesday. According to the Gregorian calendar, it started on a Thursday. It was the 9th year of the 1st century.

[[10]]

CATEGORIES: 10s

10 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Julian calendar. At the time, throughout the Roman Empire, it was known as the year of the consulship of Dolabella and Silanus 

[[11]]

CATEGORIES: 10s

11 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Thursday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lepidus and Taurus.

[[12]]

CATEGORIES: 12

12 is a year in the 1st century. It was a leap year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Capito.

[[13]]

CATEGORIES: 10s

13 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Sunday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silius and Plancus.

[[30]]

CATEGORIES: 30

30 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Sunday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Vinicius and Longinus.

[[50]]

CATEGORIES: 50

50 (Roman numerals: L) is a common year of the Gregorian calendar. It started on a Saturday.

It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

[[3 (number)]]

CATEGORIES: Integers, Prime numbers

The number three (3) is one more than two and one less than four. It is the first Mersenne prime. Three is an important number for many cultures (groups of people living together). It is also a prime number. It is the first odd prime. In Roman numerals, it is III.

[[10 (number)]]

CATEGORIES: Integers

10 (ten En-us-ten.ogg) is the number that is after nine and before eleven. Most people have ten fingers and ten toes.

Ten is the smallest positive whole number with two digits. Ten is an important number because most people write numbers using multiples of ten. This is called the decimal number system.

In Roman numerals, 10 is written as X.

[[Man]]

CATEGORIES: Men, Basic English 850 words

A man is a male adult. He is the opposite of a woman. People use the word "man" (one man, two or more men) to talk about gender. Manhood is the period in a male's life after he changes from a boy. A boy is a male child; a female child is called a girl. After boys reach maturity, they can be called a man.

Like most other male mammals, a man inherits an X chromosome from his mother and a Y chromosome from his father. The men's rights movement is a group that tries to fight for men's rights and opposes misandry.

Someone who changes gender to male would also be called a man.

[[Woman]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Women

A woman is a female human adult, including trans women. People use the word "woman" (one woman, two or more women) to talk about biological sex and/or gender identity. Sometimes, the term woman is used regardless of age, as in phrases such as "Women's rights". Also to include gender identity. 

A woman has a uterus or womb. A baby develops in the uterus, a sexual organ exclusive to females.

In the 18th century, biologists began using the symbol for the goddess Venus (♀️) as indicating a female plant or animal. It is often used for women.

[[Position]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Geometry

Position is a way to explain where something is.

[[Right]]

Right might mean:

[[Arundel Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Castles in England, West Sussex

Arundel Castle is a castle in Arundel, West Sussex, England. It was built by Edward the Confessor.

[[Religious Society of Friends]]

CATEGORIES: Protestantism

The Religious Society of Friends is a group with Christian roots that began in England in the 1650s. The formal title of the group is the Society of Friends or the Religious Society of Friends.

People in the Society of Friends are called "Friends" or Quakers - both mean the same thing. Most Quakers are Christian but the group today includes a few other people. They live all over the world, but the largest groups are in Kenya, the United States of America, Bolivia, Guatemala, the United Kingdom (England), and Burundi.

[[Size]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Measurement

The size of something is how much space the thing takes. It can also be described as how big or small something is.

Sizes can be measured. When a size is measured, it is given a number.

[[Opposite]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Opposite may refer to:

[[Direction]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Direction follows an imaginary line connecting two points.

Something following the line is moving in that direction. People show directions by pointing.

The word direction is made from the root direct meaning to guide.

These are words used to talk about a direction:

[[Starvation]]

CATEGORIES: Hunger, Food and drink

Starvation is when a person or animal has not eaten food for such a time that they are unable to do things in a normal way.

After the stomach has been left empty for so long the body starts to give up.

There are many effects of starvation. These can include:

The metabolism naturally lowers when a person is starved. This makes weight loss slower.

Consistently not being able to eat enough will lead to permanent damage to the organs. This is the case for humans when they do not eat enough for about 1-2 months. A process called catabolysis will break down body tissues, using them as fuel to keep vital functions (the nervous system and the heart) working. It will first use muscles before it starts destroying fat. 

Starvation was also used to inflict a death penalty. People who eat nothing usually die in a few months.

In 1944 Ancel Keys started a scientific experiment about starvation. The participants were all men. They ate 1800 calories a day.

[[Microsoft Word]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft Office, Word processors

Microsoft Word or MS Word (often called Word) is a graphical word processing program that users can type with. It is made by the computer company Microsoft.  Its purpose is to allow users to type and save documents.  

Similar to other word processors, it has helpful tools to make documents.

Microsoft Word is a part of Microsoft Office, but can also be bought separately.

[[Ant]]

CATEGORIES: Ants

A phylogeny of the living ant subfamilies.

‡ The previous dorylomorph subfamilies were synonymized under Dorylinae by Brady et al. in 2014

Ants are a kind of insect that lives together in large colonies. They are the family Formicidae.

Ants are a lot like wasps and bees. They all came from the same kind of animal a long time ago, but now they are different. There are about 22,000 different kinds of ants, but we only know of 12,500 for sure. Every kind of ant has a thin part in the middle of their body and two long body parts on their heads called antennae.

Ants live in groups that can be big or small. Some kinds of ants live in small groups and eat other animals. Some ants work together in very big groups. These groups can have millions of ants in them that travel outside every day in a big area. Ants are small, but they are very strong. Some ants are strong enough to carry things that are as heavy as 20 ants. Some ants are called workers. Workers dig tunnels and carry food back to the colony so that other ants and the queen ant can eat.

[[Scissors]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Cutting tools

Scissors are a tool used for cutting thin material like:

Knives are better than scissors for some uses. Unlike a knife, scissors have two sharp edges.

Some types of scissors, like children's scissors, are not very sharp. Children's scissors are often protected with plastic. These are called "Safety Scissors".

Scissors can be made for left-handed or right-handed people. Using scissors made for the wrong hand is very hard for most people. 

There are many kinds of scissors used for cutting different materials and shapes.

[[Indigo]]

Indigo is a shade of blue, more specifically, purplish blue or dark blue.  

Isaac Newton named and defined indigo as a spectrum color when he divided up the spectrum into the seven colors of the rainbow.  The spectral range of indigo is between 450 and 420 nanometers.  

The name of the color indigo originally came from the indigo plant. Indigo is a dye made from the indigo plant, used to dye cloth. Indigo dye also is used to dye denim cloth, which is used to make what are called blue jeans (they should really be called indigo jeans). This shade of indigo is called indigo dye.

The indigo plant originally came from the nation of India. The Ancient Greek language word for the dye is indikon. The Romans used the term indicum, which passed into Italian dialect and eventually into English as the word indigo. 

These things are colored indigo:

[[Violet (color)]]

Violet is the seventh color of the rainbow--it is the color on the inner edge of the rainbow. Violet is the color between blue and purple. The name of the color comes from the violet, which is a small flower grown in most parts of the world.

The first written use of violet as a color name in English was in 1370.

[[Malcolm IV of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1140s births, 1165 deaths, Kings and Queens of Scotland

Malcolm IV of Scotland (c. 1141- December 9, 1165) was the grandson of David I of Scotland. He succeeded his grandfather as King of Scotland in 1153. He never married or had children. Not much is known about him.

[[David I of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1084 births, 1153 deaths, Kings and Queens of Scotland

David I of Scotland (1084 – May 24, 1153) was the son of Malcolm III of Scotland and Saint Margaret of Scotland.

[[Saint Margaret of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1045 births, 1093 deaths, Christian saints, Kings and Queens consort of Scotland

Saint Margaret of Scotland (c. 1045 - 16 November 1093) was married to Malcolm III of Scotland. She was the mother of David I of Scotland, Alexander I of Scotland and Edgar.  She was the daughter of Edward the Exile, and the granddaughter of Edmund Ironside.  She was probably born in Hungary.  

Margaret died four days after her husband.

[[Alexander I of Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: 1078 births, 1124 deaths, Kings and Queens of Scotland

Alexander I of Scotland (c. 1078 - 23 April 1124) was the son of Malcolm Canmore and Saint Margaret of Scotland. He became the King of Scotland in 1107. In the same year, he married Sybilla, who was an illegitimate daughter of Henry I of England.

[[Henry I of England]]

CATEGORIES: 1068 births, 1135 deaths, Anglo-Normans, House of Normandy

Henry I of England (c. 1068 C.E. - 1 December 1135 C.E.), also called Henry Beauclerc (meaning good scholar), was the King of England. He ruled from, 1100 until his death in 1135. Henry was born in Selby, Yorkshire. He was the fourth son of William the Conqueror and Queen Matilda of Flanders. Henry was the only child born in England. His mother had come to England for her coronation in 1068. 

Henry was educated in Latin and the liberal arts. His parents probably raised him to go into the Church when he was old enough. On William's death in 1087, Henry's two older brothers were each left half of their father's kingdom. Robert Curthose became Duke of Normandy. William Rufus became king of England. But Henry, still a minor, was left with no inheritance. Henry purchased the County of Cotentin in western Normandy from Robert. But Robert and William Rufus forced him out in 1091.  Henry gradually rebuilt his power base in the Cotentin. He then allied himself with William against Robert. Henry was present when William died in a hunting accident in 1100. Robert was away on Crusade. Henry, who was present when William was killed, rushed to seize the English throne for himself.

As King, Henry tried to make social reforms. He issued the Charter of Liberties which is considered a predecessor of the Magna Carta. He put back in place some of the laws of Edward the Confessor.

Henry and his wife had two children, Matilda and William Adelin. William died in the White Ship sinking on November 25, 1120. Henry also fathered more illegitimate children than any other English King. Estimates by various historians place the number between 20 and 25.

Henry died in 1135.  He was visiting his daughter and grandchildren in Normandy. After his death, his daughter Mathilda and his nephew, Stephen, argued over who would become the ruler of England, and started a civil war called The Anarchy.

[[William the Conqueror]]

CATEGORIES: 1020s births, 1087 deaths, Kings and Queens of England, House of Normandy, Anglo-Normans, Dukes and duchesses, Accidental deaths

William the Conqueror (1027–1087), also known as William I of England, was the first Norman King of England (1066–1087). He was also the Duke of Normandy from 1035 until his death. 

At the Battle of Hastings, William defeated Harold Godwinson, the last Anglo-Saxon king of England. That event is shown on the Bayeux Tapestry. He changed the course of both Norman and English history.  He and Harold fought to see who would have the English throne. Harold was killed at the battle of Hastings in 1066.

[[Matilda of Flanders]]

CATEGORIES: 1031 births, 1083 deaths, House of Normandy, Kings and Queens consort of England

Matilda of Flanders (c. 1031 - November 2, 1083) was the wife of William I of England. She was Duchess of Normandy and Queen of England.

[[Robert II of France]]

CATEGORIES: 972 births, 1031 deaths, Capetian dynasty, Kings and Queens of France, Orléans, People from Centre-Val de Loire

Robert II of France (March 27, 972 - July 20, 1031) was born in Orleans, France.  He was the son of Hugh Capet and Adelaide of Aquitaine.  He was married to Constance of Arles. 

Robert was succeeded by his son Henry I of France.  Robert is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica.

[[Adelaide of Aquitaine]]

CATEGORIES: 945 births, 1004 deaths, Kings and Queens consort of France

Adelaide of Aquitaine (c.945-1004) was the Queen of Hugh Capet and the daughter of William III of Aquitaine.  She was the sister of William IV of Aquitaine.

[[William III of Aquitaine]]

CATEGORIES: 915 births, 963 deaths, Dukes and Duchesses of Aquitaine

William III of Aquitaine (c. 915 – April 3, 963) became the Duke of Aquitaine and Count of Poitiers in 935. He was the son of Ebalus of Aquitaine.

William's nickname was Towhead.

William was married to Adela of Normandy. He was the father of Adelaide of Aquitaine, who became Queen of France when she married Hugh Capet. He was succeeded by his son, William IV of Aquitaine.

[[Basilica of Saint-Denis]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals in France, Île-de-France, 13th century establishments in Europe, Establishments in France

The Basilica of Saint Denis is a basilica near Paris, France. It is famous for its architecture and as the burial place for many Kings of France. It is in the suburb of Saint Denis, which is in the north of Paris. Since 1966, it is the cathedral of the diocese of Saint-Denis. It is located in the Greater Paris area, about 5 from Paris.

The Basilica is named after Saint Denis. Saint Denis is the patron saint of France. He was also the first Bishop of Paris.

The Basilica was a Romanesque building. In 1136 the Abbot Suger (1081 - 1155) began replacing the building, bit by bit, beginning with the west front and then with a new east end. The east end is said to be the first building in the Gothic style. It was not completed until the 13th century.

The current organ of the basilica is the first organ built by Aristide Cavaille-Coll. With 4200 pipes, it contains a lot of innovations, opening the romantic area. The French organist Pierre Pincemaille, titular between 1987 and 2018, set up lots of recitals and recorded 8 CDs with this instrument.

[[Gothic architecture]]

CATEGORIES: Gothic architecture

Gothic architecture is a way of planning and designing buildings that developed in Western Europe in the Late Middle Ages. Gothic architecture grew out of Romanesque architecture, in France in the 12th century. Gothic architecture spread across Europe and lasted until the 16th century when Renaissance architecture became popular. 

The important single feature of Gothic architecture is the pointed arch, which is the main difference from Romanesque architecture which had rounded arches. Other important features are the ribbed vault, flying buttress, and windows with patterns of stone lace called tracery. 

Many of the great cathedrals, abbeys and churches of Europe are Gothic architecture. It is also the architecture of many castles, palaces, town halls, universities, and also some houses.

Many church buildings still remain from this time. Even the smallest Gothic churches are often very beautiful, while many of the larger Gothic churches and cathedrals are thought to be priceless works of art. Many are listed with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) as World Heritage Sites.

In the 19th century, the Gothic style became popular again, particularly for building churches and universities. This style is called Gothic Revival architecture.

[[Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Cathedrals

A cathedral is a Christian church that is the seat of a Bishop. As cathedrals are the seat of a bishop, they are central church of a diocese. Only those Christian denominations that have bishops have cathedrals. Cathedrals can be found in the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Anglican as well as some Lutheran churches. 

In the Greek Orthodox Church, the terms "kathedrikos naos" (literally: "cathedral shrine") and "metropolis" (literally "mother city") are both used to describe the same thing. "Metropolis" is more common, but both terms are officially used.

There are variations on the use of the term "cathedral"; for example, some pre-Reformation cathedrals in Scotland now within the Church of Scotland still retain the term cathedral, despite the Church's Presbyterian polity which does not have bishops. As cathedrals are often particularly impressive buildings, the term is often used incorrectly to refer to any large important church. Some diocese, however, have other churches that are bigger than the cathedral.

Several cathedrals in Europe, such as Strasbourg, and in England at York, Lincoln and Southwell, are referred to as Minster (German: Münster) churches, from Latin monasterium, because the establishments were served by canons living in community or may have been an abbey, prior to the Reformation. The other kind of great church in Western Europe is the abbey.

[[Patron saint]]

CATEGORIES: Saints

A patron saint is someone who has devoted their whole life to something greater than themselves. They are someone who worked hard to make the world a better place. Catholics traditionally take a name of a patron saint to help them throughout their life.

Here is a list of patron saints and the things that they are the patron saint of:

[[Saint David]]

CATEGORIES: 512 births, 587 deaths, British priests, British Roman Catholics, Christian saints, Roman Catholic bishops, Roman Catholic priests, Welsh Christians

Saint David (c. 512 - 587) is the patron saint of Wales. He was a Welsh bishop in the 6th century.

[[Saint George]]

CATEGORIES: 3rd century births, 303 deaths, Christian saints, England, Legends

Saint George (c. 275/280 – April 23, 303) is the patron saint of England and some other countries. There is no reliable history about St. George yet. On St George's day some people in England wear a red rose, or put an English flag in their window. The Saint George's Cross is the flag of England: white with a red cross. 

According to a legend, Saint George of Lydda killed a dragon and saved the lives of many people. 

[[Saint Andrew]]

CATEGORIES: Early Christian saints, Twelve Apostles, 1st century births, 1st century deaths

Saint Andrew is one of the twelve apostles of Jesus and the patron saint of Scotland, Romania, Ukraine and several other countries. He was crucified on a cross that was turned sideways to look like an "X". The Saint Andrew's flag is the official flag of Scotland.

On St Andrew's Day, many people in Scotland wear a thistle.

[[Saint Patrick]]

CATEGORIES: 402 births, 490s deaths, Christian saints, Slaves

Saint Patrick (about 402 - March 17, probably 491 or 493) is the patron saint of Ireland. He was born in a village in Roman Britain. Saint Patrick came from a Christian family. He was the son of Calpornius, who was a deacon. According to the autobiographical Confessio of Patrick, when he was about sixteen years old, he was captured by Irish pirates. They took him from his home in Britain and sold him as a slave in Ireland. His work was to take care of animals. He lived there for six years and learned the local language. He then escaped and returned to his family. 

After becoming a cleric, he returned to northern and western Ireland as a missionary. Because he knew the language he could preach to the people.  He also married couples when the king prohibited it. 

He brought Christianity to Ireland. He converted many pagans to Christianity. He also challenged many of their leaders and druids such as Aodhan the Brave also known as Chief Aodhan. St.Patrick eventually converted Chief Aodhan and they worked together to convert many other pagans.  

St. Patrick's Day is celebrated every year on March 17 in his honour.

[[491]]

CATEGORIES: 491

[[March 17]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[402]]

CATEGORIES: 402

402 is a year in the Common Era. It started on a Wednesday. It was known as year 1155 in some places in the Ab urbe condita.

[[Somerset]]

CATEGORIES: Somerset, Ceremonial counties of England

Somerset is a county in South West England.

The main town of Somerset was Somerton, but it is now Taunton. There are two cities in Somerset. They are Bath and Wells.

[[Glastonbury]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset, Civil parishes in Somerset

Glastonbury is a town in Somerset, England. It is well known for the Glastonbury Festival which happens every year in Glastonbury.

[[Glastonbury Abbey]]

CATEGORIES: Abbeys, Somerset, Churches in England

Glastonbury Abbey is in Glastonbury, Somerset, England. It was King Ine of Wessex who decided to build Glastonbury Abbey and out of stone. King Edmund I of England was buried at the Abbey in 946 AD. It is said to be the burial place of King Arthur.

[[Somerton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset, Civil parishes in Somerset

Somerton is a town in Somerset. In 2001 there were 4509 people living in Somerton. It is between the towns of Yeovil and Street.  It is in the South Somerset District of Somerset. 

Somerton was the capital of the Kingdom of Wessex from 871 to 901.  It also used to be Somerset's county town, but this is now Taunton.

[[Yeovil, Somerset]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset, County towns in England

Yeovil is a town in the county of Somerset.  It is in the South Somerset District.  Yeovil takes its name from the River Yeo.  Yeo Village became Yeovil over time.

[[Bridgwater]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset

Bridgwater is a town in the county of Somerset.  It is in the District of Sedgemoor.

[[Street]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

A street is a piece of land, made flat and often with pavement, so that people can travel on it better. "Street" and "road" may mean the same thing, but "street" is more often used only in a town.

Many streets are the center of local culture or of a specialized activity. New Orleans’ Bourbon Street, for example, is famous for its active nightlife and also for its role as the center of the city’s French Quarter. The Bowery in Manhattan was, at different times, a main highway, a center of underground punk culture, and a specialized shopping district for light fixtures.

[[Taunton]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset

Taunton is a town in the county of Somerset.  It is in the Taunton Deane District.  Taunton is the county town of Somerset.  Taunton is on the River Tone and takes its name from the river.  Tone town became Taunton.

In 1685, Judge Jefferies was based in Taunton during the Bloody Assizes that followed the Battle of Sedgemoor.

[[Shepton Mallet]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset, Mendip

Shepton Mallet is a town in the county of Somerset, England.  It is in the Mendip district.

Shepton Mallet is where the council is based for the Mendip district. It is a pleasant place to go, and has a beautiful countryside.

[[Bath, Somerset]]

CATEGORIES: Spa towns in the United Kingdom, World Heritage Sites in the United Kingdom, Bath, Somerset

Bath is a city in the county of Somerset in England. It is 97 west of London, and 13 southeast of Bristol.

Bath is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The city has preserved some of its Roman remains and its 18th century architecture.

[[Wells]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Somerset, Mendip

Wells is a city in the county of Somerset. It is in the district of Mendip. The only other city in Somerset is Bath. In 2001 there were 10,406 people living in Wells.

Wells Cathedral is in Wells. The cathedral is very popular with visitors to Wells.

The cathedral has a school attached to it. Timothy K. Murray, a composer, was a student there.

The city of Wells is named after springs in the grounds of the Bishop's Palace.

It is the second smallest city in the United Kingdom after St Davids in Wales.

[[East Coker, Somerset]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Somerset

East Coker is a village in Somerset.  It is in the South Somerset District.  East Coker is near the town of Yeovil.  

St Michael's church contains the ashes of the poet T. S. Eliot. One of his poems is called East Coker. William Dampier, explorer and buccaneer was born in the village in 1651. He circumnavigated the world four times and published a book about his experiences. Dampier Island and Dampier Straits off Australia are named after him. Along the approach to the church are 12 almshouses built in 1640 by Archdeacon Helyar, chaplain to Queen Elizabeth l.

One of East Coker's famous residents is Trevor Peacock.  Trevor Peacock played Jim in The Vicar of Dibley.

[[Tatworth]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Somerset

Tatworth is a village near Chard in the South Somerset District of Somerset, England. It was settled in 1254, but traces of earlier settlers have been found, such as a Roman villa.

[[Chard (Somerset)]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset

Chard is a town in Somerset.  It is in the South Somerset District.  It is near the border of the county of Devon.

Chard is the birthplace of aviation.  It was in Chard, during 1848, that John Stringfellow (1799 - 1883), first demonstrated that powered flight was possible.

In 1685, Chard was one of the towns in which Judge Jefferies held some of the Bloody Assizes after the failure of the Monmouth Rebellion.  He stayed in The Choughs, a public house in Chard.

[[Crewkerne]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset, Civil parishes in Somerset

Crewkerne is a town in Somerset, England where about 6,700 people live. It is in the South Somerset District. 

The first time it is mentioned in history is 899, when king Alfred the Great left the manor to his son Ethelweard. The name Crewkerne comes from the Saxon words Cruce (cross) and earne (cottage), because of the early church there. There was also a mint where coins were made between 978 and 1035. In 1066, the manor belonged to Edith, mistress of Harold Godwinson. After the Norman Conquest, it belonged directly to William the Conqueror. 

[[Stoford, Somerset]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Somerset

Stoford is a village in the county of Somerset, England. It is in the South Somerset District.

[[River Tone]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England, Somerset

The River Tone is a river in the county of Somerset.  It flows through the town of Taunton and joins the River Parrett.

Taunton takes its name from the River Tone.  Tone town became Taunton.

[[River Yeo]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Yeo is a river in the county of Somerset in the United Kingdom.  It flows through the town of Yeovil and joins the River Parrett.

Yeovil takes its name from the River Yeo.  Yeo Village became Yeovil over time.

[[River Adur]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Adur is a river in the county of Sussex, in England. It starts from South Downs, southern England and ends in the port town of Shoreham-by-Sea.

[[River Aire]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Aire is a river in England.  It runs through the counties of North Yorkshire, West Yorkshire and the East Riding of Yorkshire, although most of it is in West Yorkshire.

The river starts in Malham, and from there flows through (in order) Skipton, Keighley, Shipley, Leeds, Castleford, Knottingley and Airmyn.

[[River Aln]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Aln is a river in the county of Northumberland. It has served as a war zone between the English and the Scots.

[[River Alt]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Alt is a river in the county of Merseyside in England just north of Liverpool. The river begins near Huyton and flows about 28 km northeast to empty into the Irish Sea at the town of Hightown. Other towns along the river include Kirkby, Maghull and Formby. There are 75 km of tributary feeding the river. About 250,000 people live in the area around the river. The northern part of the river forms the boundary between the counties of Merseyside and Lancashire.

[[River Yare]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England, Norfolk

The River Yare is a river in the county of Norfolk, England.

The river starts south of Dereham in the county of Norfolk. From there it flows to the east of the world.  The river flows along the southern edge of the city of Norwich. The river continues past Norwich into the tidal lake of Breydon Water. Here the Yare is joined by the Rivers Bure and Waveney. It empties into North Sea at Gorleston, Great Yarmouth.Google Chrome

Small coastal boats can sail along the river from Norwich to the North Sea. In the past, the river had a large number of boats carrying goods to Norwich. Larger modern boats cannot get across Breydon Water because it is not deep enough. Because of this, a canal was created at Reedham to provides a connection to the River Waveney.

[[River Exe]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England, Devon

The River Exe is a river in the county of Devon in England. It usually flows directly south through the city of Exeter. The island had many mills making paper and textiles, and also created valuable land by draining the marshlands.clarify The wide estuary of the River Exe is a ria (drowned river valley).

The name of the city of Exeter means "castle on the river Exe".

[[Ilminster, Somerset]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset

Ilminster is a town in the county of Somerset. It is in the South Somerset District.  

Ilminster is on the River Ile and has a large church.  The church is known as the Minster.  It is from both of these things that Ilminster takes its name.  Ile and Minster became Ilminster.

[[South Cadbury]]

CATEGORIES: History of England, Somerset, Archaeological sites in England

South Cadbury is an archaeological site in south Somerset.

It was dug in the early 1970s, and it showed many times that people lived there. The first was in the early Neolithic (around 4000-3000 BC?) when the hill seems to have been an important place for groups of early farmers who moved around. Most things were found from when late Bronze Age people lived on the hill (around 1200 BC). In the Iron Age the site changed, with many big walls. There are signs that when the Romans came to Britain, they killed many people here. Ruins of a feasting hall built after the Roman time were also found in the dig. There are also legends connecting this place with King Arthur.

[[Watchet]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset

Watchet is a harbor town in the county of Somerset in England. It gets its name either from the blue wacet dye found in the cliffs, or from British gwo coed or waeced, "under the wood". 

[[Burnham-on-Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset

Burnham-on-Sea is a small town in the county of Somerset in England on the mouth of the River Parrett at Bridgwater Bay. Burnham was a small fishing village until the late-18th century when it became popular as a seaside resort. This made the village grow larger into a town.

[[Cheddar cheese]]

CATEGORIES: Cheeses

Cheddar is a type of hard cheese made from cow's milk. It originally was produced in the English village of Cheddar, Somerset. Romans may have brought the recipe to Britain from the Cantal region of France. The first record of cheddar cheese dates back to the 12th century. In 1170, King Henry II bought 10240 at a farthing per pound.  Charles I (1600–1649) also bought cheese from Somerset.  Cheddar cheese traditionally had to be made within 30 of Wells Cathedral.

Cheddar cheese is different from other cheeses in how it is made. After the curds are heated, they are cut and stacked. The stacks are then turned periodically and re-stacked. This process is called cheddaring. Cheddar cheese is sometimes aged in caves for up to 30 months before it is ready to eat.

Cheddar cheese is the most popular cheese in the United Kingdom. It accounts for 51 percent of the country's £1.9 billion annual cheese market. It is the second most popular cheese in the United States, behind mozzarella, with an average annual consumption of 10 per person. The United States produced 3,233,380,000 lbs in 2010, and the UK 258,000 tonnes in 2008. The name "cheddar cheese" is widely used and has no protection within the European Union. Only cheddar produced from local milk within four counties of South West England may use the name "West Country Farmhouse Cheddar."

Cheddar cheese may be used to make cheese on toast.

[[Yatton]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Somerset

Yatton is a large village with 9,000 people in the county of Somerset in England. Archaeology in the area has found a Roman villa (country-house) belonging to some rich person who lived here in the late 3rd century, judging from the coins. Records show the land was part of the manor of John the Dane before the Norman Conquest, and Giso, bishop of Wells afterward. 

[[Backwell]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Somerset

Backwell is a village in the county of Avon, in North Somerset. 5,455 people live in Backwell. It is 7 miles from Bristol. Nailsea, Flax Bourton, Yatton, Brockley and Barrow Gurney are nearby.

There is a railway station in the village called Nailsea and Backwell. Bristol International Airport is less than three miles away.

[[Nailsea]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset, Civil parishes in Somerset

Nailsea is a town and civil parish in Somerset, England. In 2011, there were 15,630 people living in Nailsea.

[[Clevedon]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset

Clevedon is a town in the county of Somerset, in England. The name comes from Old English and means "divided hill". Archaeology shows that many people lived here during the Roman occupation. Just before the Norman Conquest in 1066 it was part of a huge manor held by John (Gunni?) the Dane. At the time of the Domesday Book (1086) it belonged to Matthew of Mortaigne and had only a few people living there. The town of today was not built until around 1800 as a seaside resort.

[[Weston-super-Mare]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Somerset, Civil parishes in Somerset

Weston-super-Mare, sometimes known as just Weston is a sea-side town in Somerset, England. Weston is 18 from the city of Bristol. It also includes the suburbs of Oldmixon, West Wick and Worle. The beach is a popular tourist destination and includes many museums, a pier and an aquarium.

[[South Somerset]]

CATEGORIES: District and borough councils in England, Somerset, 1974 establishments in England

South Somerset is a district in the county of Somerset.  Its council is based in the town of Yeovil.  The district was formed on 1 April 1974 and was originally called Yeovil.

[[Scone]]

CATEGORIES: Sweet breads

A scone is a kind of bread that is baked on a griddle or sheet. Scones are very small, and are in the same group as the crumpet or muffin. It is made of wheat, barley, or oatmeal and baking powder to make it rise. The scone is shaped closely like the North American biscuit, and its recipe is almost the same with it as well. Sometimes scones may have raisins, currants, cheese, or dates in them. In the United States, however, scones include more sweet kind of fillings like cranberries, chocolate chips, or nuts. They can often be found in coffee shops and in a great variety in the British Isles. It is generally thought that scones are best eaten when they are very hot and freshly baked right from the oven, accompanied with melting warm butter.

[[Ankara]]

CATEGORIES: Ankara

Ankara is the capital city of the country of Turkey. It is in the center of Anatolia. Ankara is the second largest city after Istanbul. The city has a population of 4,319,167 (2005) (Province 5,153,000), and an elevation of 938 meters (3080 feet). It was formerly known as Engürü the city is also the capital of Ankara Province

Ankara is a very modern city. Ankara was made the capital of Turkey in 1923. Ankara is known for its performing arts, home to the State Opera and Ballet, the Presidential Symphony Orchestra and several national theater companies. In Ankara there’s a place called Anitkabir, which is a big hilltop mausoleum that was built to celebrate Kemal Atatürk who was the first president.

[[Johannes Gutenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1390s births, 1468 deaths, German inventors, People from Mainz, Publishers

Johannes Gensfleisch zur Laden zum Gutenberg (more commonly known as Johannes Gutenberg) (1390s – 3 February 1468), was a German metal-worker and inventor. He is famous for his work in printing in the 1450s, and is specifically known for inventing typography.

Gutenberg was born in Mainz, Germany, as the son of a merchant, Friele Gensfleisch zur Laden. Gutenberg's father took the surname "zum Gutenberg" after the name of the place they now lived.

Gutenberg invented a sort of metal alloy for printing; inks; a way to fix type (metal letters) very accurately; and a new sort of printing press. He took the idea for his printing press from the presses wine-makers used. Many people say Gutenberg invented printing with moveable type, but it was already invented in China before that: see printing.

Before movable type, people used block printing, where the printer prints a whole page from one piece of metal or wood. With movable type, the printer makes a letter (A, B, C ...) from a piece of metal or wood, and can use it again and again in different words. Together, all Gutenberg's inventions made printing fast. In Renaissance Europe, the improved information technology made an information explosion – in a short time, people printed many new books about many topics.

The high number of new books was partly because of the popular Bible Gutenberg printed – the Gutenberg Bible. This was the first Bible people made in large numbers; Gutenberg started on 23 February 1455. Gutenberg was not a clever businessman, and did not get much money from his system. He had legal problems, and lost his machines to his partner, Johann Fust. The Archbishop at the time sympathized with Gutenberg because of his contributions to society, so told him that he would receive a pension each year with clothes, wine, and grain.  Gutenberg died in Mainz, Germany, in 1468.

In his lifetime Gutenberg was not successful, but his invention was very important. In a short time, news and books were traveling around Europe very fast. Scientists could communicate better, which helped bring the scientific revolution and new technology. More Europeans, not just priests, scribes and scholars, learned to read.

Today, there are still 60 Gutenberg Bibles. They are probably the oldest books that printers made with moveable type.

The Gutenberg Galaxy and Project Gutenberg use Gutenberg's name. The city of Guttenberg, Iowa in the United States is named after him.

[[Elizabeth I]]

CATEGORIES: 1533 births, 1603 deaths, 1600s in England, 16th century in England, English Anglicans, House of Tudor, People excommunicated by the Catholic Church, Slavers

Elizabeth I (7 September 1533 – 24 March 1603) was the Queen of England and Ireland. She was queen from 17 November 1558 until she died in March 1603.  She was also called Good Queen Bess or the Virgin Queen or Gloriana.

She was the daughter of King Henry VIII of England and Anne Boleyn, his second wife, and was the last of the Tudor dynasty of monarchs. When Boleyn was disgraced at court and executed, Elizabeth's life became a troubled one, including being locked up in the Tower of London, an old prison.

Despite that, Elizabeth reigned with intelligence and hard work.  Her reign was distinguished with great achievements in the arts, trade, and exploration. She ably defended her country through the days of the Spanish Armada. She never married, but claimed that she was married to England. She also had a few other favourites, including the Earl of Leicester. At her death in 1603, King James VI of Scotland was named her successor.

[[Cate Blanchett]]

CATEGORIES: Satellite Award winners, 1969 births, Living people, Actors from Melbourne, Australian movie actors, Australian stage actors, Australian television actors, Best Actress Academy Award winners, Best Supporting Actress Academy Award winners, BAFTA Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Catherine Elise Blanchett AUS (ˈ; born 14 May 1969) is an Australian actress, producer, and theatre director. She was born in Ivanhoe, Victoria, Australia. 

In 1998 she won an Academy Award nomination for Best Actress for playing Elizabeth I in Elizabeth. In 2005 she won Best Supporting Actress for playing Katharine Hepburn in Martin Scorsese's The Aviator. 

Regarded as one of the greatest actresses of her generation, she is noted for her versatile roles in blockbusters, independent films, and in her stage work in various theatre productions. She has received  numerous accolades, including two Academy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, and three British Academy Film Awards.

[[Kylie Minogue]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Actors from Melbourne, Australian child actors, Australian movie actors, Australian pop singers, Australian singer-songwriters, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Breast cancer survivors, Musicians from Melbourne, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Officers of the Order of Australia

Kylie Ann Minogue, AUS (m; born 28 May 1968) is an Australian singer, songwriter and actress, sometimes known simply as Kylie. She became popular in the late 1980s, because of her role in the Australian television soap opera Neighbours, before becoming a dance-pop singer.

[[Natalie Imbruglia]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Sydney, Australian movie actors, Australian pop musicians, Australian singer-songwriters, Australian television actors, Musicians from Sydney, Singers from New South Wales, 1975 births, Living people, Officers of the Order of Australia

Natalie Jane Imbruglia 100% (born 4 February 1975) is an Australian actress and singer-songwriter. 

Imbruglia was born in Sydney, New South Wales to an Anglo-Australian mother and Italian-Australian father.

Imbruglia began acting in Australian television commercials and was in spots for Coca-Cola and the popular Australian snack Twisties. By age 16, she left high school to start a career in acting. She soon had the chance to play a regular role on the Australian soap opera Neighbours. She left the show to move to London in 1994. 

She received an MTV Award for Best New Artist in 1998.  She had 3 Grammy Award nominations in 1999. That same year, she also won two Brit Awards for Best International Newcomer and Best International Female. She has sold over 9 million albums worldwide.

[[Nicole Kidman]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Actors from Honolulu, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, American voice actors, Australian movie actors, Australian movie producers, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1967 births, Living people

Nicole Mary Kidman, AC  (born 20 June 1967) is an Australian-American actress, singer and film producer. She began acting in movies in 1983. She starred in various Australian movies and television shows. Her first major role was in Dead Calm in 1989.

Her performance in the musical Moulin Rouge! (2001) earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress. She later won the award in this category for playing Virginia Woolf in The Hours (2002).

Kidman appeared as Atlanna, Aquaman's mother, in the 2018 DC Comics-Warner Bros. movie Aquaman (2018).

[[Hugh Jackman]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Actors from Sydney, Australian movie actors, Australian movie producers, Australian singers, Australian stage actors, Australian television actors, Australian voice actors, Companions of the Order of Australia, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Musical theater actors, People's Choice Award winners, Saturn Award winners, Skin cancer survivors, Television producers, Tony Award winning actors

Hugh Michael Jackman AC (born 12 October 1968) is an Australian actor, singer, musician, dancer and producer. He is an actor in theater and television too. He plays on different roles and various genres of movies like romance, superhero, musical, drama, action and comedy.

[[Mel Gibson]]

CATEGORIES: Mel Gibson, 1956 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from New York, American movie actors, American television actors, Movie directors from New York, Movie producers from New York, Order of Australia, People from Peekskill, New York, People's Choice Award winners, Screenwriters from New York

Mel Colm-Cille Gerard Gibson AUS (born January 3, 1956) is an American actor, director, producer, and screenwriter. He is mostly known for his roles in action movies. Some of his most famous roles are in Mad Max (1979), Gallipoli (1981), The Bounty  (1984), Lethal Weapon (1987), and Braveheart (1995). He directed The Passion of the Christ in 2004. He loosely based it on the visions of St. Catherine Emmerich.

Gibson was born in Peekskill, New York, United States. His father, Hutton Gibson, was a veteran soldier during World War II and was also a famous writer. His family moved to Australia in 1968, when he was 12. He studied acting at the National Institute of Dramatic Art in Sydney. He also has Irish citizenship.

[[Natalie Portman]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Academy Award winning actors, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Movie producers from New York City, Movie directors from New York City, Screenwriters from New York City, BAFTA Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Israeli movie actors, Israeli television actors, Israeli stage actors, Israeli movie producers, Israeli movie directors, Israeli screenwriters, Israeli voice actors, Israeli Jews, Jewish American actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Jerusalem, Saturn Award winners, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Natalie Portman (born Neta-Lee Hershlag; נטע-לי הרשלג; June 9, 1981) is an Israeli-American actress and filmmaker. She was born in Jerusalem, Israel. Portman is an only child. She lived in Washington, D.C. and Connecticut before coming to Long Island, New York with her parents. In 1999, she graduated from Syosset High School. Portman attended Harvard University, studying Psychology. In 2010, She won the Academy, BAFTA and Golden Globe Awards for "Best Actress" for her acting in the movie Black Swan.

She is most famous for starring in Star Wars Episodes I, II and III as Padme in the early 21st century. She has also appeared on Saturday Night Live.

[[Alyson Hannigan]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia, Actors from Washington, D.C., American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Whedonverse

Alyson Lee Hannigan is an American actress. She was born March 24, 1974 in Washington, D.C. She moved to Atlanta, Georgia when she was 2 years old to live with her mother. She started to act in commercials for McDonalds, Six Flags amusement parks and Oreo cookies when she was small. When she was 11, she went to Los Angeles with her mother to go to school and become famous. She started getting noticed with her roles in Buffy the Vampire Slayer as Willow Rosenberg and in the American Pie movies as Michelle Flaherty. She is currently on the television series How I Met Your Mother.

[[Jessica Alba]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Actors from Beverly Hills, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American video game actors, American voice actors, Democrats (United States), Models from California, People from Pomona, California

Jessica Marie Alba (born April 28, 1981) is a businesswoman, American television and movie actress, and model. She started her business, The Honest Company, in 2011. Alba made her first movie, Camp Nowhere, at age 13 and in the television drama series Dark Angel (2000–2002). Alba later acted in several movies, such as Honey (2003), Sin City (2005) and Good Luck Chuck (2007). Alba has won several awards for her acting. These awards include the "Choice Actress" award at the Teen Choice Award and a Saturn Award. Both of these awards were for her acting in the series Dark Angel. 

She has been listed in the "Hot 100" section of Maxim magazine every year from 2003 to 2007, and she was voted "Sexiest Woman in the World" by FHM in 2007. In March 2007, a picture of her was used on the cover of Playboy. Playboy did not ask her if they could use the picture or tell her they were going to use it. This caused a lawsuit that was later dropped.

[[Brad Pitt]]

CATEGORIES: People from Shawnee, Oklahoma, Saturn Award winners, Academy Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1963 births, Living people, Actors from Oklahoma, Actors from Missouri, Movie producers from Missouri, American movie actors, People from Springfield, Missouri, American television actors, American voice actors

William Bradley "Brad" Pitt (born December 18, 1963) is an Academy Award-winning American actor and movie producer. 

[[Jennifer Aniston]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Jennifer Joanna Aniston (born March 11, 1969) is an Australian actor, movie producer, and television producer. She is best known for her starring role on the television program Friends. For this she won an Emmy Award, and a Golden Globe Award. Since then she has been in many different movies.

[[Jennifer Love Hewitt]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Texas, American child actors, American movie actors, American movie producers, American pop musicians, American television actors, American television producers, American voice actors, People from Waco, Texas, Singers from Texas, 1979 births, Living people

Jennifer Love Hewitt (born February 21, 1979) is an American actress and singer. She is most known for playing "Sarah Reeves" in the Fox television series Party of Five from (1995-1999),  and as "Julie James" in the I Know What You Did Last Summer movies. She also played "Melinda Gordon" on the CBS television series Ghost Whisperer.

[[Katie Holmes]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Actors from Toledo, Ohio, American movie actors, American television actors, Scientologists

Katherine Noelle "Katie" Holmes (born December 18, 1978) is an American actress. She was born in Toledo, Ohio. She was "Joey" on the WB network TV show Dawson's Creek. Her mother's name is Katherine Ann Holmes

[[Sigourney Weaver]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Actors from New York City, American voice actors, HuffPost writers and columnists

Sigourney Weaver (born as Susan Alexandra Weaver on October 8, 1949, in New York City) is an American actress.

Weaver played the role of Lieutenant Ellen Ripley in the movie series Alien, in the four movies Alien, Aliens, Alien³, and Alien: Resurrection. She is also well known for playing Dana Barrett in the movies Ghostbusters and Ghostbusters II or for the role Dian Fossey in the movie Gorillas in the Mist.

She was the first person to win two Golden Globe acting awards in the same year.

[[Audrey Hepburn]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1993 deaths, Deaths from appendix cancer, Actors from Brussels, BAFTA Award winning actors, Best Actress Academy Award winners, Cancer deaths in Switzerland, Deaths from colorectal cancer, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Tony Award winning actors

Audrey Hepburn (4 May 1929 – 20 January 1993) was a Belgian-born British actress admired for her charm and elegance.

[[Katharine Hepburn]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 2003 deaths, Actors from Hartford, Connecticut, American autobiographers, American LGBT people, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, Best Actress Academy Award winners, Cancer deaths in Connecticut, Emmy Award winning actors, LGBT actors, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Katharine Hepburn (May 12, 1907 - June 29, 2003) was an American actress. Her career lasted 66 years. She is thought of as one of the top screen actresses in movie history. She was nominated for 12 Academy Awards, winning four.

Hepburn was born in Hartford, Connecticut and went to Bryn Mawr College. She got her degree in 1928 and started on Broadway that same year.

In 1932 she got a role in the George Cukor movie A Bill of Divorcement, with John Barrymore. She was very successful in the early 1930s, but then she became unpopular. She became popular again with the movie The Philadelphia Story. In 1942 she starred in Woman of the Year with Spencer Tracy. They made eight more movies together, including Adam's Rib and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner. They also had an off-screen romance that lasted until Tracy's death in 1967, but they never married because Tracy did not want to divorce his wife. Before this, Hepburn was married to Ludlow Ogden Smith from 1928-1934, and also had relationships with Leland Hayward and Howard Hughes.

Her autobiography, Me: Stories of My Life, came out in 1991. She died on June 29, 2003 at 2:50 p.m., at Fenwick, the Hepburn family home, in Old Saybrook, Connecticut.  She was 96.

[[Charles Kay Ogden]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1957 deaths, English writers, English philosophers, Linguists

Charles Kay Ogden (1 June 1889 – 21 March 1957) was an English linguist, philosopher, psycholinguist and writer. He is a well-known book writer about the controlled language called Basic English. He is known for his work with I. A. Richards on The Meaning of Meaning (1923). He also translated Tractatus, a book by Ludwig Wittgenstein, into English.

[[God Save the Queen]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems, British music, British monarchy

"God Save the Queen" has been the national anthem of the United Kingdom since 1745. Its also the royal anthem of the Commonwealth realms, played alongside their official national anthems. Its composer remains unknown to this date.

When the ruling monarch is a king instead of a queen, the title of the anthem then becomes "God Save the King".

The tune for "God Save the Queen" was used in many countries as a national anthem. Apart from the German state, many of which were linked to Great Britain by marriage, Liechtenstein and Switzerland used the tune. Switzerland changed to a different tune in the 1960s. Liechtenstein still uses the tune.

The tune is both American and British. In the 1930s the United States chose an official anthem. "The Star-Spangled Banner" was chosen instead of the equally popular "My Country 'tis of Thee" which used the "God Save the Queen" tune.

[[Lion]]

CATEGORIES: Panthera, Mammals of Africa, Felines

The lion (Panthera leo) is a large mammal of the Felidae (cat) family. Some large males weigh over 250.  Today, wild lions live in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia. Lions are adapted for life in grasslands and mixed areas with trees and grass. The relatively small females are fast runners over short distances, and coordinate their hunting of herd animals.

Lions have disappeared from North Africa and southwest Asia in historic times. Until the late Pleistocene, about 10,000 years ago, the lion was the most widespread large land mammal after humans. They were found in most of Africa, across Eurasia from western Europe to India, and in the Americas from the Yukon to Peru. The lion is now a vulnerable species. There was a decline in its African range of 30–50% over two decades in the second half of the 20th century. Habitat loss and conflicts with humans are the greatest causes of concern.

Lions are often called the "king of the beasts". They are used as symbols representing courage. They appear in heraldry more often than any other animal. They are an icon of courage and royalty.

Lions live for 10 to 14 years when they are in the wild. When they are captured, they can live longer than 20 years. In the wild, males do not usually live longer than 10 years. This is because wounds from fighting with other males make their lives shorter. They usually live in savanna and grassland. These areas do have bushes and trees, but lions are mainly adapted to catch prey on grasslands. Compared to other cats, lions are social. A group of lions is called a pride. In a pride of lions, there are related females, their young, and one or two adult males. Groups of female lions often hunt together.

Lions are carnivores and scavengers.  Lions are apex predators. Lions eat antelope, buffalo, zebras, warthogs, wildebeest, birds, hares, turtles and fish. Lions scavenge animals either dead from natural causes (disease) or killed by other predators. They keep a constant lookout for circling vultures, because this means there is a dead or injured animal close by.

[[Galatasaray S.K.]]

CATEGORIES: Turkish football clubs

Galatasaray is a sports club in Istanbul, Turkey. They started in 1905.

In 2000, they became the first Turkish club to win both the UEFA Cup and the UEFA Super Cup in the same year.

The team's colors are red and yellow. Turkish people also call it "Cim Bom". Their mascot is a lion. The Turk Telecom Stadium is their stadium, and is also known as Aslantepe; Lion Hill. It is an all-seater stadium. It can hold 52,652 people.

Galatasaray is one of the "big five" clubs in Turkey. The other clubs are Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş, Trabzonspor and Bursaspor. They have won the Spor Toto Super League 22 times and Ziraat Turkish Cup 18 times. As of January 2016, the Chairman is Mustafa Cengiz, and the coach is Fatih Terim.

[[B]]

B is the second letter in the English alphabet. Use a capital B at the start of a sentence if you are trying to communicate. B comes after A. B has a capital and lowercase kind, like every letter in the alphabet. 

[[C]]

C is the third (3rd) letter in the English alphabet and ISO basic latin alphabet.

[[D]]

D is the fourth (number 4) letter in the alphabet. It is derived from the Greek Delta and the Phoenician Dalet

[[E]]

CATEGORIES: Vowel letters

E is the fifth (number 5) letter in the English alphabet. 

In English it has two main sounds when it is spoken. Usually it is a short E (ĕ), but sometimes it is a long E (ē). 

One more thing in English is the so-called magic E. That is when a silent e at the end of a word makes the previous e long. Example: morpheme, which is pronounced as morphēm.

[[F]]

F is the sixth letter in the English alphabet.

[[G]]

G is the 7th (number 7) letter in the English alphabet (or Latin alphabet).u

[[H]]

H (ˈ) is the eighth (number 8) letter in the English alphabet.

[[I]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Vowel letters

I is the ninth (9) letter in the English alphabet.

In English, I is a pronoun which means "me".

In Turkish, the letter I has two kinds, one with a dot (İ, i) and one without (I, ı).

[[J]]

J is the tenth (number 10) letter in the English alphabet. It comes before the letter K and after the letter I. The letter was not used in the Roman civilization until 16th Century.

[[K]]

K is the eleventh (number 11) letter in the English alphabet.

K or kappa is the tenth (number 10) letter in the Greek alphabet

[[L]]

L is the twelfth (number 12) letter in the English alphabet.

[[M]]

M is the 13th letter in the English alphabet.

[[N]]

N is the fourteenth (number 14) letter in the English alphabet.

[[O]]

CATEGORIES: Vowel letters

O is the fifteenth (number 15) letter in the English alphabet and it has a shape of a circle.

[[P]]

For technical reasons, :P redirects here. For the emoticon, see emoticons.

P is the sixteenth (number 16) letter in the English alphabet.

[[Q]]

Q is the seventeenth (number 17) letter in the English alphabet.

Some people say that the letter Q is not needed, because the sound it makes can be made with "K" and "W" instead. The same sort of things are said about the letters "X" and "C".

Below are some ancient ways of writing "Q":

[[R]]

R is the eighteenth (number 18) letter in the English alphabet.

[[S]]

S is the nineteenth (number 19) letter in the English alphabet.

[[T]]

T is the twentieth (number 20) letter in the English alphabet.

[[U]]

CATEGORIES: Vowel letters

U (u) is the twenty-first (21) letter in the English alphabet (it is also used as a short form for 'you').

[[V]]

V is the twenty-second (number 22) letter in the English alphabet.

[[W]]

W is the twenty-third (number 23) letter in the Latin alphabet. It is sometimes considered a vowel. In words like away, what, write and women, the W is a consonant. In words like draw, few, and low, the W is a vowel

[[X]]

X is the twenty-fourth (number 24) letter in the English alphabet. It sometimes makes a sound like ks (for example: exit, next, fox), or if it is at the beginning of a word, it makes a sound like zzz (for example: xylophone).

[[Y]]

CATEGORIES: Vowel letters

Y is the twenty-fifth (number 25) letter in the English alphabet. It is sometimes considered a vowel. In words like year, yell, and yes, the Y is a consonant. In words like cry, fly, and sky, the Y is considered a vowel.

[[Z]]

Z is the twenty-sixth (number 26) and last letter in the English alphabet. The small letter, z, is used as a lowercase consonant. Z is not used much. It is the most rarely used letter in the English language. The same letter of the Greek alphabet is named zeta.

[[Fuck]]

CATEGORIES: English profanity

Fuck is a common English language swear word. It can be used to either mean the act of sex or as an expression. However, the word fucking is used as an intensifier before a word (e.g fucking hell).

[[Virus]]

CATEGORIES: Viruses, Parasites, Infectious diseases

A virus is a  parasite that can only be seen under a microscope and can infect living organisms and cause disease. It can make copies of itself inside another organism's cells. Viruses consist of nucleic acid and a protein coat. Usually the nucleic acid is RNA; sometimes it is DNA. Viruses are able to cause many types of diseases, such as polio, ebola and hepatitis. Virology is the study of viruses. 

Viruses reproduce by getting their nucleic acid strand into a prokaryote or eukaryote (cell). The RNA or DNA strand then takes over the cell machinery to reproduce copies of itself and the protein coat. The cell then bursts open, spreading the newly created viruses. All viruses reproduce this way, and there are no free-living viruses. Viruses are everywhere in the environment, and all organisms can be infected by them.

Viruses are so much smaller than bacteria. They were not visible until the invention of the electron microscope. A virus has a simple structure, it has no internal cellular structure, no cell wall or cell membrane, just the protein coat that holds the string of nucleic acid. Viruses live and reproduce in the cell which is why medication such as antibiotics cannot help fight against the virus as it cannot enter the cell without damaging the cell.

With eukaryotic cells, the virus protein coat is able to enter the target cells via certain cell membrane receptors. With prokaryote bacteria cells, the bacteriophage physically injects the nucleic acid strand into the host cell.

Viruses have the following characteristics: 

When the host cell has finished making more viruses, it undergoes lysis, or breaks apart. The viruses are released and are then able to infect other cells. Viruses can remain intact for a long time, and will infect cells when the time and conditions are right.

Some special viruses are worth noting. Bacteriophages have evolved to enter bacterial cells, which have a different type of cell wall from eukaryote cell membranes. Envelope viruses, when they reproduce, cover themselves with a modified form of the host cell membrane, thus gaining an outer lipid layer that helps entry. Some of our most difficult-to-combat viruses, like influenza and HIV, use this method.

Viral infections in animals trigger an immune response which usually kills the infecting virus. Vaccines can also produce immune responses. They give an artificially acquired immunity to the specific viral infection. However, some viruses (including those causing AIDS and viral hepatitis) escape from these immune responses and cause chronic infections. Antibiotics have no effect on viruses, but there are some other drugs against viruses.

[[Microprocessor]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components, Microprocessor design

A microprocessor is an electronic component that is used by a computer to do its work. It is a central processing unit on a single integrated circuit chip containing millions of very small components including transistors, resistors, and diodes that work together. Some microprocessors in the 20th century required several chips. Microprocessors help to do everything from controlling elevators to searching the Web. Everything a computer does is described by instructions of computer programs, and microprocessors carry out these instructions many millions of times a second. 

Microprocessors were invented in the 1970s for use in embedded systems.  The majority are still used that way, in such things as mobile phones, cars, military weapons, and home appliances.  Some microprocessors are microcontrollers, so small and inexpensive that they are used to control very simple products like flashlights and greeting cards that play music when opened.  A few especially powerful microprocessors are used in personal computers.

[[Heat]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Heat, Basic physics ideas, Thermodynamics

Heat, or thermal energy is the sum of the kinetic energy of atoms or molecules. In thermodynamics, heat means energy which is moved between two things, when one of them has a higher temperature than the other thing. 

Adding heat to something increases its temperature, but heat is not the same as temperature. The temperature of an object is the measure of the average speed of the moving particles in it.  The energy of the particles is called the internal energy.  When an object is heated, its internal energy can increase to make the object hotter.  The first law of thermodynamics says that the increase in internal energy is equal to the heat added minus the work done on the surroundings.

Heat can also be defined as the amount of thermal energy in a system. Thermal energy is the type of energy that a thing has because of its temperature. In thermodynamics, thermal energy is the internal energy present in a system in a state of thermodynamic equilibrium because of its temperature.  That is, heat is defined as a spontaneous flow of energy (energy in transit) from one object to another, caused by a difference in temperature between two objects; therefore, objects do not possess heat.

[[Shogun]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, Shoguns

Shogun is a military title in pre-Meiji period Japan. Shogun means general in the Japanese language. The full name was Seii Taishogun (Great General who fights against the Eastern savages and will win).

In the earlier times, Shogun were simply generals for emperors. The emperor had power over the shogun, choosing each shogun. Later however, the Shogun held much of the actual power. In 1192 a samurai, military leader Minamoto no Yoritomo got the title of Shogun from the last Emperor Go-Shirakawa. Excluding the later middle of the 16th century, Shogun was the real ruler of Japan.

The office of the Shogun is called the shogunate (bakufu, meaning office in a tent).-  This is because Shogun had originally been military leaders and he had his office in a tent on a battle field.

There were three shogunates in Japan.

In 1868 the 15th Shogun of Tokugawa Shogunate, Tokugawa Yosinobu gave up his office. Then the time of Shogun rule ended. It was the end of the feudal time of Japan.

[[Bratislava]]

CATEGORIES: Bratislava

Bratislava is the capital city of Slovakia. About 450,000 people live there. It used to be called Pressburg (German) or Pozsony (Hungarian) and by some other names. Bratislava is the seat of national government, the presidency, and the parliament. It has several museums, galleries and of other educational, cultural and economic institutions.

There is a small Old Town, and a castle called Bratislavský Hrad. The Danube river goes through Bratislava. 

[[Wellington]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities in Oceania, Wellington, 1865 establishments, 1860s establishments in New Zealand

Wellington is the capital of New Zealand. It has been the capital since 1865. Before then Auckland was the capital. Wellington is the second largest city in New Zealand. It had about 448,000 people in 2006. Wellington is the southernmost capital city in the world.

Wellington is in the middle of New Zealand, at the south end of the North Island. South of Wellington is Cook Strait, the sea between the North Island and the South Island. The city has a lot of hills and a deep harbour. The middle of the city is busier than most small cities and is easy for people to walk around. 

It was named for Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington. Wellington recently became famous because The Lord of the Rings movie trilogy was made there.

[[Biochemistry]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

Biochemistry is the study of chemical reactions in living beings, and of biological molecules in general. It is important to cell biology and physiology. The study of biochemistry involves enzymes, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, sugars, proteins, and lipids. In the body, most of the molecules are polymers built of long chains of smaller molecules. Biochemistry studies the chemical transformations which produce these small building-block molecules, and which produce energy from food.

[[Sadness]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Emotions

Sadness is an emotion. It is the opposite of happiness. People feel sad when something bad has happened, for example, if their mother or father has died. 

In big letters, SAD, or S.A.D. is short for "Seasonal Affective Disorder". SAD is a sickness that some people have in the winter. They feel depressed as the nights become longer and there is less daylight.

When people are very sad, and for a long time, the person could have a serious mental illness called depression or Bipolar disorder.

[[Microeconomics]]

CATEGORIES: Microeconomics

Microeconomics is the science of how people make decisions at the small scale. It is different from macroeconomics which looks at how the economy works as a whole ("on aggregate"). In microeconomics, we might look at how a person chooses what to buy at the store, or how many things a company will make. Some parts of microeconomics include Consumer Theory and Theory of the Firm, which study how people and businesses make decisions. Game theory looks at how people make decisions when the outcome (how something ends) depends on what decision another person makes; when agents are said to act "strategically".

[[Port (disambiguation)]]

A port is a place at the edge of an ocean, river, or lake for ships to load and unload their cargo.

It can also refer to:

[[Cryptography]]

CATEGORIES: Cryptography, Computer security, Computer science, Human communication

Cryptography, or cryptology,  is the practice and study of hiding information. It is sometimes called code, but this is not really a correct name. It is the science used to try to keep information secret and safe. Modern cryptography is a mix of mathematics, computer science, and electrical engineering. Cryptography is used in ATM (bank) cards, computer passwords, and shopping on the internet.

When a message is sent using cryptography, it is changed (or encrypted) before it is sent. The method of changing text is called a "code" or, more precisely, a "cipher". The changed text is called "ciphertext". The change makes the message hard to read. Someone who wants to read it must change it back (or decrypt it).  How to change it back is a secret.  Both the person that sends the message and the one that gets it should know the secret way to change it, but other people should not be able to. Studying the cyphertext to discover the secret is called "cryptanalysis" or "cracking" or sometimes "code breaking".

Different types of cryptography can be easier or harder to use and can hide the secret message better or worse. Ciphers use a "key" which is a secret that hides the secret messages. The cryptographic method needn't be secret. Various people can use the same method but different keys, so they cannot read each other's messages. Since the Caesar cipher has only as many keys as the number of letters in the alphabet, it is easily cracked by trying all the keys. Ciphers that allow billions of keys are cracked by more complex methods.

Since the time of Caesar, many improved cyphers have been made.  Some involved clever mathematics to resist clever cryptanalysis.  During the 20th century computers became the principle tool of cryptography.

[[Tuesday]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the week

Tuesday is the day of the week between Monday and Wednesday. In some countries, for example the United States of America, Tuesday is the third day of the week. In other parts of the world, Tuesday is the second day of the week.

[[Wednesday]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the week

In some countries, like the United States of America, Wednesday is the fourth day of the week. In other parts of the world Wednesday is said to be the third day of the week.

Wednesday is named after the Norse god Woden.

[[Thursday]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the week

In some countries, like the United States of America, Thursday is the fifth day of the week. In other parts of the world Thursday is said to be the fourth day of the week. It comes after Wednesday and before Friday. Thursday is named after the Norse god Thor.

[[Friday]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the week

Friday is a day of the week. In some countries, for example the United States, it is the sixth day of the week. In other parts of the world, for example the United Kingdom, it is said to be the fifth day of the week. Friday is the Sabbath for Muslims.

There is a superstition that a Friday on the 13th day of a month is unlucky. If the first day of a month is a Sunday, the month will have a Friday the 13th. 

Some people consider Friday to be the last day of the week before the weekend. Others see Friday night as part of the weekend, since work or school is over for the week. In some places, the weekend is Friday and Saturday. Because many people are happy to not have to go to work during the weekend, there are sayings like "Thank God it's Friday!".

Friday is named after Norse Goddess Frigg.

[[Saturday]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the week

In some countries, like the United States of America, Saturday is the seventh and final day of the week. In other parts of the world, like the United Kingdom, Saturday is said to be the sixth day of the week. It is also the day of rest and worship for Jewish people. Along with Sunday, it makes up the weekend. Its name comes from the Roman god Saturn.

[[Laos]]

CATEGORIES: Laos, Least developed countries, 1949 establishments in Asia

Lao People's Democratic Republic or Laos (ᝮᝢ), is a country in southeast Asia. The capital of Laos is Vientiane.

Laos is landlocked (it does not have a coast on a sea or ocean). It is bordered by Myanmar (used to be known in English as "Burma") and by China to the northwest, by Vietnam to the east, by Cambodia to the south and by Thailand to the west. The Mekong river forms a large part of the western boundary with Thailand. Boats from Laos cannot get to the ocean using the Mekong because of rapids and waterfalls in the south of the country.

The official language is Lao, a language belonging to the Tai language group. 98% of Lao people believe in Buddhism. The main crop in Laos is rice.

[[Yes]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Yes is an English word that shows acceptance or agreement, or making a positive response or exclamation. It is the opposite of no.

Yes may also mean:

In music:

In other uses:

[[Amaterasu]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese deities, Shinto, National personifications

Amaterasu (天照), Amaterasu-ōmikami (天照大神 or 天照大御神) or Ōhirume-no-muchi-no-kami (大日孁貴神), is a goddess in Japanese mythology. She is the Sun Goddess, and the most sacred of all Shinto deities. Her name, Amaterasu, means "(that which) illuminates Heaven." Her shrine is at Ise.

==Tradition== 

Amaterasu is the sister of Susano'o, the god of the sea and storms, and of Tsukuyomi, the god of the moon. All three were created from Izanagi, when he washed his face to clean the dirtiness of Yomi, the underworld. Amaterasu was born when Izanagi washed out his left eye, Tsukuyomi was born from the washing of the right eye, and Susano'o from the washing of the nose.

[[Organism]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Organisms

An organism is an individual living thing. It is easy to recognize a living thing, but not so easy to define it. Animals and plants are organisms, obviously. Organisms are a biotic, or living, part of the environment. Rocks and sunshine are parts of the non-living environment.

Organisms usually have five basic needs to continue their metabolism. They need air, water, nutrient (food), energy, and a place to live. However, not all living things need all these at the same time. Many organisms do not need access to air at all.

A little thought is needed about viruses. There is no agreement as to whether they should be regarded as living. They are made of protein and nucleic acid, and they evolve, which is a really important fact. However, they exist in two quite different phases. One phase is dormant, not active. The other is inside a living cell of some other organism. Then the virus is very active reproducing itself. Consider the parallel with a computer program. When in use it is active; when it is not, it is completely inactive. It is still a program all the same.

Another example from biology is the spore, which is a distribution phase of a bacteria, fungus or some plants. They are not active until they get to the right situation. They have all the working parts to build a complete organism, but for the moment it is switched off.

Some organisms are made up of millions of cells. They are multicellular organisms. Many can be seen without using a microscope.

Most organisms are so small that they cannot be seen with the naked eye. You need a microscope to see them. They are called microorganisms. Organisms can be made up of just one cell. They are called unicellular organisms or single celled organisms. Examples include bacteria, and protozoa such as the Amoeba and Paramecium.

[[Kinetic energy]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Mechanics, Basic physics ideas

Kinetic energy is the energy that an object has because of its motion. This energy can be converted into other kinds, such as gravitational or electric potential energy, which is the energy that an object has because of its position in a gravitational or electric field.

[[Potential energy]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Basic physics ideas, Force

Potential energy is the stored or pent-up energy of an object. It is often contrasted with kinetic energy. 

In physics, potential energy is the energy which an object has due to its position in a force field or which a system has due to the way its parts are arranged. 

Common types include the gravitational potential energy of an object that depends on its vertical position and mass, the elastic potential energy of an extended spring, and the electric potential energy of a charge in an electric field. The SI unit for energy is the joule (symbol J).

Potential energy is often associated with restoring forces such as a spring or the force of gravity. The action of stretching the spring or lifting the mass is performed by an external force that works against the force field of the potential. This work is stored in the force field, which is said to be stored as potential energy. If the external force is removed the force field acts on the body to perform the work as it moves the body back to the initial position, reducing the stretch of the spring or causing a body to fall. When this happens, potential energy changes into kinetic energy. The total energy stays the same because of the law of conservation of energy.

Physicists say that potential energy is the difference between the energy of an object in a given position and its energy at a reference position.

[[Ship]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Ships, Navigation

A ship is a large vehicle used to travel on water. It is bigger than a boat. Most are cargo ships, which carry most of the world's international trade. There are also many warships, passenger ships and other kinds for different purposes.

When people talk about a ship, they often use the pronoun "she". For example: She was launched on 29 December 1878.

[[Boat]]

CATEGORIES: Boats

A boat is a vehicle used to travel on water. It is smaller than a ship and can be lifted out of the water and carried on a ship. Some boats have sails, some are powered by rowing with oars, and some use motors. Those that use steam engines are steamboats

These boats are usually made of wood. However, some parts are made of metals like steel and aluminium. Expensive boats may have parts from fiberglass or composite materials and some even have helicopter pads. There are some boats that can even go underwater. They are called submarines.

A narrowboat is a boat designed to be used on narrow canals. It is sometimes called a barge.

[[Navy]]

CATEGORIES: Navy

The navian is the part of a country's military that fights on water using boats. People in the navy are called navians. The navy is mostly made up of warships. It may also have its own air force and soldiers. It may have special boats that can go underwater, called submarines, or another kind of special boat that is meant to carry airplanes, called aircraft carriers. 

[[Air force]]

CATEGORIES: Air force

An air force is the branch of a country's military which fights in the air. The air force is made up of aircraft such as fighters, bombers, helicopters and transport aircraft. When a navy has its own air force it is called Naval Aviation. 

Air forces began in the early 20th century, usually as part of the army. Most countries separated their air forces in the 1930s and 1940s. 

Aircraft in an air force sometimes fly in a formation. Formations are when the aircraft fly in a pattern. Air forces is part of the military.

The biggest air force in the world is the United States Air Force (USAF).

[[List of words about computers]]

CATEGORIES: Computing, Computer-related lists, Glossaries

[[Adware]]

CATEGORIES: Software

Adware is an advertising computer program that can be put there by other people on someone's computer, sometimes without their permission. It is controversial because sometimes businesses put the program there so they can see what people are doing or what web pages they are browsing. They then put an advertisement that is of the same subject as the web-page the person is looking at. This can be good if the person is trying to buy something, but many people do not want advertisements. Many people also do not want other people to find out what they are doing or what web pages they are looking at. An example is in the popular peer-to-peer file sharing program, Kazaa. When someone downloads it, it installs adware on their computer that then sends advertisements to the computer. Some people do not like this so they use an illegally changed version of this program called Kazaa Lite.

[[Gender]]

CATEGORIES: Gender

Gender is a word that is used to talk about how people express masculine (traits most people think of as male) or feminine (traits most people think of as female) traits. It is commonly used for a person's sex (male or female) but this word only means someone’s biology (body parts).

[[Dutch language]]

CATEGORIES: West Germanic languages, Languages of Europe

Dutch (Nederlands) is a West Germanic language. It comes from the Netherlands and is the country's official language. It is also spoken in the northern half of Belgium (the region called Flanders), and in the South American country of Suriname. A language known as Afrikaans was developed from Dutch by the people in southern Africa and is now spoken mainly in South Africa but also in nearby Namibia. About 22 million people around the world speak Dutch.

[[Creative Commons licenses]]

CATEGORIES: Software licences

The Creative Commons licenses relates to the name of several copyright licenses released on December 16, 2002. The licenses were released by Creative Commons, a United States nonprofit corporation. Everybody can put their own creations under these licenses.

There are four basic license conditions. A simple overview of these four:

It is possible to combine the license elements to allow people to use a work under certain conditions. For example, a combination of the first and fourth is called "CC BY-SA". This stands for "Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike". With this license other people can use the work for free, but they must give credit to the original creator, and when they make something new with the work they must give it the same "CC BY-SA" license.

[[Marshall Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Marshall Islands

The Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) is a Micronesian island nation in the western Pacific Ocean. The capital of Marshall Islands is Majuro. The official languages are Marshallese and English.

National Anthem: Forever Marshall Islands

Roughly 10% of the population of the Marshall Islands can now be found in northwest Arkansas, U.S. Most live and work in the city of Springdale, a community of roughly 50,000. Each year, the Marshallese host a homecoming event so friends and relatives can get together to celebrate, stay in touch with politics at home, and spread their island culture. They meet at the Jones Center for Families in Springdale and have dancing, feasting, volleyball, and basketball. As a population, they are devoted to family and church and bring island dance and song to this corner of Arkansas.August 2019

[[Alphabet]]

CATEGORIES: Alphabet

[[County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties

A county is the name for a piece of land. It has a different meaning in different languages. Originally the word was for the land under a count (in Great Britain an earl). Today a "county" is often something between a larger state and a smaller town or district.

County governments keep records and organize elections and laws. They are a kind of local government.

[[New York University]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Colleges and universities in New York City

New York University, also known as NYU, is a research university in New York City. It is the largest private university in the United States, and is highly regarded in the nation as well as around the world.

[[Bee]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Bees, Symbols of Kansas

Bees are flying insects of the Hymenoptera, which also includes ants, wasps and sawflies. There are about 20,000 species of bees. Bees collect pollen from flowers. Bees can be found on all continents except Antarctica.

Bees fall into four groups:

The European honey bee (called Apis mellifera by biologists), is kept by humans for honey. Keeping bees to make honey is called beekeeping, or apiculture.

[[Dragonfly]]

CATEGORIES: Odonata

Dragonflies are flying insects of the order Odonata. There are about 5,300 species of dragonfly. The adults eat other flying insects.

Dragonflies have large compound eyes, which is their main sense organ. They have four  strong transparent wings, and a long body.

Dragonflies are usually found around lakes, ponds, streams and wetlands. They are predators which eat mosquitoes, and other small insects such as flies, bees, ants, and butterflies. Their larvae, known as 'nymphs', are aquatic. They are also carnivorous.

Because their legs are adapted to grab prey in the air, they are not adapted for moving on land. Once they perch, they rarely use their legs for walking. 

Dragonflies have been around for 300 million years. In the rain forests of the Carboniferous and Permian periods, some species had wingspans of over 2. Oxygen levels were quite high at that time.

[[Wind]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Winds

WIND is the flow of gases. On Earth, wind is mostly the movement of air. In outer space, solar wind is the movement of gases or particles from the sun through space. The strongest winds seen on a planet in our solar system are on Neptune and Saturn.

Short bursts of fast winds are called gusts. Strong winds that go on for about one minute are called squalls. Winds that go on for a long time are called many different things, such as breeze, gale, hurricane, and typhoon.

Wind can move land, especially in deserts. Cold wind can sometimes have a bad effect on livestock. Wind also affects animals' food stores, their hunting and the way they protect themselves.

Sunlight drives the Earth's atmospheric circulation. The resulting winds blow over land and sea, producing weather. 

A High pressure area (that makes an anticyclone) near a low pressure system (that makes a cyclone), makes air move from the high pressure to the low pressure to try to even out the pressures. The Coriolis effect causes the winds to spiral around. A big difference in pressure can make high winds.  In some storms, such as hurricanes, typhoons, cyclones, or tornadoes, it can cause winds faster than 200 mph (320 kilometres per hour ).  This can damage houses and other buildings, and can kill people.

Wind can also be caused by the rising of hot air, or the falling of cool air. When hot air rises, it creates a low pressure underneath it, and air moves in to equalize the pressure. When cold air drops (because it is denser or heavier than warm air), it creates a high pressure, and flows out to even out the pressure with the low pressure around it.

The wind is usually invisible, but rain, dust, or snow can show how it is blowing. A weathervane can also show you where the wind is coming from. The Beaufort scale is a way to tell how strong the wind is. It is used at sea, when no land can be seen. 

The increase in wind causes an increase in the rate of evaporation.

[[Vertebrate]]

CATEGORIES: Vertebrates

A vertebrate is an animal with a spinal cord surrounded by cartilage or bone. The word comes from vertebrae, the bones that make up the spine. Animals that are not vertebrates are called invertebrates. Vertebrates include birds, fish, amphibians, reptiles, and mammals. The parts of the vertebrate skeleton are:

Examples of vertebrates are mammals, birds, and fish. A few tens of thousands of species have been identified. The term "fish" is used to describe at least four different kinds of vertebrates.

[[Alpha male]]

CATEGORIES: Animals, Ethology

An alpha male is the top-ranking male in a mammalian social group.

[[Singapore]]

CATEGORIES: Singapore, 1963 establishments in Asia

Singapore, officially the Republic of Singapore, is a sovereign country as well as a city-state. It is at the southern end of the Malay Peninsula in Asia, between the Straits of Malacca and the South China Sea. Singapore is about one degree of latitude (137) north of the equator. About 5.70 million people live in Singapore.  About 3.31 million are citizens. Most of them are ethnically Chinese, Malay, or Tamil, as well as a smaller number of other Asians.

Present-day Singapore was founded in 1819 by Stamford Raffles as a trading post of the British Empire. During the Second World War, Singapore was taken over by Japan in 1942, but returned to British control after Japan surrendered in 1945. Singapore started to govern itself in 1959, and in 1963 became part of the new federation of Malaysia, together with Malaya, North Borneo, and Sarawak. Political and social differences led to Singapore being removed from the federation two years later, becoming an independent country on its own.

The symbolic national language of Singapore is Malay. Other official languages of Singapore are English, Mandarin and Tamil. English is the language of choice because it is the language that everyone in Singapore knows and uses. It is the first language taught in schools and the language used by the government and in court. Students are also usually taught the language of their ethnicity. This means that the Chinese will learn Mandarin, Malays will learn Malay, and so on. Students can also choose to learn a third language in secondary school.  As a result, most Singaporeans are bilingual.

Singapore is also known as a "Garden City" or a "City in a Garden". It is because there are plants everywhere, making it look like a garden. Singapore has one of the highest standards of living in the world, with very good education, healthcare, housing, and very low corruption. It is also known for having many strict rules and punishments, including fines. This is why it is also sometimes jokingly called a "fine" city. The government says this has helped Singapore in being a very safe country. Singapore is one of the founding members of ASEAN.

[[Johannesburg]]

CATEGORIES: Johannesburg, 1886 establishments, 1880s establishments in South Africa

Johannesburg is the largest city in South Africa. It is the capital of the Gauteng Province. It was founded on October 4, 1886 and has the JSE Securities Exchange, which is the largest stock exchange in Africa.

Johannesburg houses the tallest office block in Africa, the Carlton Centre (50 stories) and the tallest tower, the Hillbrow Tower (270 metres, or 90 stories).  The city is nicknamed Egoli or Jozi, which means "place of gold", for the large gold deposit at Witwatersrand.   

zoo The Johannesburg Zoo was established in 1904, and historically, it has been owned and run by the city of Johannesburg. It houses the only two polar bears in Africa. Johannesburg is not seen as a tourist centre in South Africa, but rather as a commercial centre.

Johannesburg has a subtropical highland climate (Cwb in the Köppen climate classification). Snow is a very rare event. It only snows in Johannesburg once or twice in a century.

Nelson Mandela died there on 5 December 2013, aged 95. He was also given the "Freedom of the City" award. 

[[Johannesburg Zoo]]

CATEGORIES: Zoos, Johannesburg, Buildings and structures completed in the 20th century

[[Breakfast]]

CATEGORIES: Meals

Breakfast is the first meal of the day. It is usually eaten in the morning. The word comes from two other words; "break" ("end") and fast ("not eating for a long time").

Definition: 1463 from break (v.) + fast (n.). Cf. Fr. déjeuner "to breakfast," from L. dis-jejunare "to break the fast."

People around the world eat different things for breakfast:

[[Fast]]

Fast can mean different things:

[[Town]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Towns

A town is usually a place with a lot of houses, but not a city. As with cities, there is more than one way to say what a town is in different countries. In some places, it is a kind of local government.  When they say "town" people are normally thinking of a big, important place. It may even be a city.

Generally, a town is smaller than a city and larger than a village, but that is not always the case, and the definition can differ in each country.

Generally, the difference between towns and villages or hamlets is the sort of economy they have. People in towns usually get money from industry (factories etc.), commerce (shops etc.) and public service (working for the town), not agriculture (growing food).

The number of people who live in a place does not tell us if it is a town or a village. In many areas of the world, like India, a big village can have many more people than a small town. It is also difficult to say if a place is a town because today, some towns are becoming bigger.

Sometimes a place is a city because it got the name "city" by law. However, people often call a place a "town" if it is small.

In the Middle Ages, a place became a town by means of a charter, which gave it town privileges.

[[Condensed matter physics]]

CATEGORIES: Matter, Basic physics ideas

Condensed matter physics is a branch of physics which talks about matter that has its molecules packed together very closely. This usually means it deals with solids (solid matter).

[[Bag]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Containers

A bag is a kind of soft container. It can hold or carry things. It may be made from cloth, leather, plastic, or paper. Many bags are disposable but some are made to use for a long time. A bag may have one or two handles or a shoulder strap. Bags come in different shapes and sizes depending on how they will be used. A small bag that can be carried with a single hand is sometimes called a handbag, purse, or pocketbook.  Children can suffocate, or stop breathing and die, when they put certain kinds of bags over their heads, due to having the supply of oxygen cut off.

[[Julius Caesar]]

CATEGORIES: 100 BC births, 44 BC deaths, Assassinated people, Former dictators, Ancient Roman historians, European politicians, Murders by blade weapons, Roman generals

Gaius Julius Caesar (July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC) was a military commander, politician and author at the end of the Roman Republic.

Caesar became a member of the First Triumvirate, and when that broke up, he fought a civil war against Pompey the Great.  Winning the war, Caesar became Roman dictator for life.  He was killed by his enemies in Rome.

Later rulers of Rome called themselves “Caesar” and this title was later copied as “Kaiser” and “Tsar”.

[[Sapporo]]

CATEGORIES: Olympic cities, Sapporo

Sapporo  is the capital city of Hokkaidō Prefecture in Japan. The port city is on the southwest part of the island of Hokkaidō and it is the island's largest city.

The city has a famous snow festival in winter, it has a growing population of about 1,800,000 people.  Its area is 110,000. There are a lot of fish markets in Sapporo. A beer brand named "Sapporo" was named after this city. Ramen is a very popular food in Sapporo. The city has a subway system. Some famous landmarks are the Sapporo TV Tower, and the clock tower that is in the center of the city. There are several universities here, including Hokkaido University. The nearby airport is called New Chitose Airport.

[[Hokkaidō Prefecture]]

CATEGORIES: Hokkaido Prefecture

Hokkaidō Prefecture is a special Japanese prefecture in Hokkaidō region on the island Hokkaidō.  It is the most northern prefecture of Japan.

Sapporo is the capital city of Hokkiado.

[[Hinduism]]

CATEGORIES: Hinduism, Indian religions

Hinduism is not only a religion but also a way of life. Hinduism is known to have more than one god and is widely practiced in South Asia mainly in India and Nepal. Hinduism is the oldest religion in the world,

Hinduism contains a wide range of philosophies, and is linked by the concepts, like rituals, cosmology, Texts, and pilgrimage to sacred sites. Hindu texts are divided into Śruti ("heard") and Smṛti ("remembered"). These texts discuss philosophy, mythology, Vedic yajna, Yoga, agamic rituals, and temple building, and many more. Major scriptures in Hinduism include the Vedas and Upanishads, the Bhagavad Gita, and the Agamas.

There are 4 goals or aims of human life, namely Dharma (duties), Artha (prosperity), Kama (desires/passions), Moksha (liberation/freedom/salvation); karma (action, intent and consequences), Saṃsāra (cycle of rebirth), and the various Yogas (paths or practices to attain moksha). Hindu rituals include puja (worship) and recitations, meditation, family-oriented rites of passage, annual festivals, and occasional pilgrimages. Some Hindus leave their social world and become sanyasi to achieve Moksha. Hinduism prescribes the eternal duties, such as honesty, non-violence (ahimsa), patience, self-restraint, and compassion, among others. The four largest sects of Hinduism are the Vaishnavism, Shaivism, Shaktism and Smartism.

Hinduism is the world's third largest religion, There are approximately 1.15 billion Hindus which are 15-16% of the global population. The vast majority of Hindus live in India, Nepal and Mauritius. Hindus are also found in other countries.

[[List of elements by symbol]]

CATEGORIES: chemical elements, Chemistry lists

This is a list of elements by atomic number with symbol.

[[Periodic table (big)]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table

[[Periodic table (metals and non-metals)]]

CATEGORIES: Periodic table

Color coding for atomic numbers:

[[Hernán Cortés]]

CATEGORIES: 1485 births, 1547 deaths, Deaths from pleurisy, Spanish explorers, People from Extremadura

Hernán Cortés (1485 - 2 December 1547) was an explorer and Conquistador from Spain. Between 1519 and 1521, he conquered the Aztec Empire of emperor Montezuma II where Mexico is today. He introduced vanilla and chocolate to Europe.

[[Bible study]]

CATEGORIES: Bible

Bible study is intensive reading of the Bible.

For Christians, study of the Bible is often part of daily life. A lot of other people are also interested in this piece of world literature.

In Europe before the 16th century it was not possible for most people to study the Bible.  Books were written using only the languages Latin and Greek.  Only people who had learned to read those languages could study the Bible. The Roman Catholic Church said people could not translate the Bible into other languages, for example Italian or English because many people could not read and it took the lifetime of a monk, by himself, to translate the Bible.  

When the Reformation started in 16th century Europe, the Bible was translated into several languages.  Many books were printed in these languages. People were then able to read the Bible in their own language.

[[Medlar]]

CATEGORIES: Mespilus germanica, Fruits, Amygdaloideae

The medlar is a tree and the name of the fruit of this tree. Its Latin name is Mespilus germanicus, or "German medlar", but it is not from Germany. It grows in the Near East and South-Eastern Europe, and the Romans took it to Germany. Near the Caspian Sea, people grew the medlar about three thousand years ago. It came to Greece in about 700 BC and to Rome in about 200 BC. It was an important fruit plant in Roman and medieval times. But by 1600-1700, people started eating other fruits and not the medlar. Today people do not grow it very often. 

The medlar needs warm summers and mild (not too cold) winters and likes to grow in sunny, dry places. In the best places, the plant can grow up to eight metres tall. The medlar is deciduous: it is not green all year. Usually, it is shorter than a tree. It lives between thirty and fifty years. Medlar leaves are dark green, maximum fifteen centimetres long and three centimetres wide. The plant has flowers in late spring. The flowers are white. The red-brown medlar fruits are similar to apples and grow to two to three centimetres. They are very hard and acidic, and we can only eat them after the cold weather makes them soft.

[[Atheism]]

CATEGORIES: Religion, Philosophical movements and positions, Society, Lifestyles

Atheism is rejecting the belief in a god or gods.

It is the opposite of theism, which is the belief that at least one god exists. A person who rejects belief in gods is called an atheist. Theism is the belief in one or more gods. Adding an a, meaning "without", before the word theism results in atheism, or literally, "without theism".

Atheism is not the same as agnosticism: agnostics say that there is no way to know whether gods exist or not. Being an agnostic does not have to mean a person rejects or believes in god. Some agnostics are theists, believing in god. The theologian Kierkegaard is an example. Other agnostics are atheists. Gnosticism refers to a claim of knowledge. A gnostic has sufficient knowledge to make a claim. Adding an a, meaning "without", before the word gnostic results in agnostic, or literally, "without knowledge".

While theism refers to belief in one or more gods, gnosticism refers to knowledge. In practice, most people simply identify as a theist, atheist, or agnostic.

[[Hippocrates]]

CATEGORIES: 460 BC births, 377 BC deaths, Greek physicians, Ancient Greek philosophers, History of medicine

Hippocrates (c. 460 – c. 370 BC) was a Greek doctor who is called the "father of medicine". He was the first person to teach that people got sick for scientific reasons. Previously, people believed that disease was caused by angry gods.

Many of Hippocrates' writings are still important to doctors. For example, patient confidentiality, meaning that doctors can only discuss a patient with the patient themselves. Another of his ideas is to never knowingly lead a patient to suffering or death. These kinds of ideas are part of medical ethics.

The Hippocratic Oath is named after him. This is a set of rules which doctors promise to obey. This is an example of a modern Hippocratic Oath used at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine.proof I do solemnly swear by all I hold most sacred:

[[Commensurability]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophy of science

Commensurability is a concept in the philosophy of science. Scientific theories are described as commensurable if one can compare them to find out which is more accurate. If there is  no way  one can compare them to determine which is more accurate, they are incommensurable.

Behind this is the idea that it is possible to see the world in multiple ways, and that there is not one fair method to see which way is right. Some think that scientific traditions (or paradigms) can be incommensurable: it is not really possible to say which one is right. This idea has been defended by Thomas Kuhn. He wrote: when paradigms change, the world changes with them. Paul Feyerabend was another philosopher who said that incommensurability was possible in scientific topics. He wrote that it is important to remember this, because it means that it is possible to say things that are not scientific, but also not wrong. These ideas were mainly aimed at Karl Popper and his ideas on falsification.

Two theories may not be comparable if one cannot find a way to compare them and decide which is right.

[[Harvest]]

CATEGORIES: Agriculture

Harvest means to collect what has been planted and grown in the ground. It is usually done by farmers, and in the fall season. This is also called picking crops. Crop failure (also known as harvest failure) is a loss or reduced crop yield due to plants being damaged, killed, or destroyed. Sometimes it brings famine.

"Harvest" can also mean to collect other things than plants such as cultivated bivalves including oysters, scallops, and other animals.

[[ELISPOT]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

ELISPOT stands for "Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Spot Assay".  It is a laboratory technique for detecting cells that make (or "secrete") various substances.  These substances include specific types of cytokines or antibodies.  The ELISPOT method is typically used with blood cells, and is a helpful tool in studying the human immune system and various treatments for disease (e.g. vaccines).

In the ELISPOT technique, tiny wells are used to contain the cells, with a variety of other substances.  The substances cause colored spots to form near the cells that secrete the substances in question. These spots can then be counted manually (using a microscope, for example) or automatically using specialized equipment with computer vision capabilities.

The ELISPOT technique is very sensitive, and can detect even a single substance-producing cell. It is also very versatile, since it can be tailored to detect a wide variety of very specific secretions.

[[List of biochemistry topics]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry, Chemistry lists

This is a list of all the articles related to biochemistry.

[[Aztecs]]

CATEGORIES: Aztec

The Aztecs were Native American people who lived in Mesoamerica. They ruled the Aztec Empire from the 14th century to the 16th century.

The name "Aztec" comes from the phrase "people from Aztlan". Legends say that Aztlan was the first place the Aztecs ever lived.  "Aztlan" means "place of the herons" in the Nahuatl language.p. 8

Often the term "Aztec" refers just to the people of Tenochtitlan. This was a city on an island in Lake Texcoco. These people called themselves the Mexica which is why the country is called Mexico, or the Nahua which is why their language is called Nahuatl.

[[Billion]]

Billion is a name for a large number. It may refer specifically to:

Billion may also refer to: 

[[Richard Nixon]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1994 deaths, American lawyers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from stroke, People from Whittier, California, People of the Vietnam War, Presidents of the United States, Quakers, Recipients of the Nishan-e-Pakistan, Richard Nixon, Time People of the Year, 1960 United States presidential candidates, 1964 United States presidential candidates, 1968 United States presidential candidates, 1972 United States presidential candidates, United States representatives from California, United States senators from California, US Republican Party politicians, Yorba Linda, California, 20th-century American politicians, Watergate scandal

Richard Milhous Nixon (January 9, 1913 – April 22, 1994) was an American politician. He was the 37th president of the United States, serving from 1969 to 1974, when he became the only president to resign. Before that, Nixon was the 36th vice president (from 1953 to 1961 under President Dwight D. Eisenhower), and a U.S. Representative and Senator from California. He was a Republican.

His presidency is known for a start for diplomacy with China, a slow ending of the Vietnam War, domestic acts (such as OSHA and Environmental Protection) and an era of peace with the Soviet Union (communist Russia).  He is also known for corruption and the Watergate scandal which resulted in the public losing trust in him and his impeachment process. The scandal caused his resignation.

[[Gerald Ford]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2006 deaths, American adoptees, American lawyers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from cerebrovascular disease, Deaths from coronary artery disease, Gerald Ford, Politicians from Omaha, Nebraska, People of the Vietnam War, 1976 United States presidential candidates, United States representatives from Michigan, US Republican Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, Minority leaders of the United States House of Representatives

Gerald Rudolph "Jerry" Ford, Jr. (born Leslie Lynch King, Jr.; July 14, 1913 — December 26, 2006) was an American politician. He was the 38th president of the United States from 1974 to 1977. Before becoming president, he was the 40th vice president from 1973 to 1974. He was also a member of the House of Representatives from 1949 to 1973, becoming its minority leader in 1965. He is the only president who has not been elected to the office of either President or Vice President.  He was a Republican.

Ford was born in Omaha, Nebraska. He attended the University of Michigan and Yale Law School. After Pearl Harbor was attacked in 1941, he joined the U.S. Naval Reserve and served from 1942 to 1946. 

Ford began his career in politics in 1949 as the U.S. representative from Michigan's 5th congressional district. In 1965, he became the House Minority Leader. In December 1973, he became the vice president of the United States, replacing Spiro Agnew, who had resigned two months before. This made Ford the first person to become vice president due to the 25th Amendment. In August 1974, Ford became president after Richard Nixon resigned.

As president, Ford signed the Helsinki Accords. It was created to ease tensions between the Western world and the Soviet Union during the Cold War. In 1975, South Vietnam collapsed. This event ended US participation in the Vietnam War.  

Domestically, Ford had to work with the worst economy since the Great Depression. There was growing inflation and a recession during his presidency. Ford also gave a presidential pardon to his predecessor, Richard Nixon, for his role in the Watergate scandal. The pardon was one of the most controversial things he did as president. Foreign policy was characterized in procedural terms by the bigger role Congress began to play, and by the restraining of the powers of the president. 

In 1976, Ford ran for reelection. He defeated former California Governor Ronald Reagan for the Republican nomination. He narrowly lost the presidential election to the Democratic candidate, former Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter. 

After his presidency ended in 1977, Ford remained active in the Republican Party. However, his views on some social issues caused disagreement with  conservative members of the party in the 1990s and early 2000s. He is not ranked high in presidential opinion polls.

Ford died at home on December 26, 2006 after facing a series of health problems. He was 93 years old.

[[John Kerry]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, American Roman Catholics, Aurora, Colorado, 2004 United States presidential candidates, John Kerry, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, Politicians from Colorado, Purple Heart recipients, United States Secretaries of State, United States senators from Massachusetts, US Democratic Party politicians, Yale University alumni, 21st-century American politicians, 20th-century American politicians

John Forbes Kerry (born December 11, 1943) is an American politician.  He is a former United States Secretary of State and former Senator from Massachusetts and the Democratic nominee for President in 2004. He lost to George W. Bush. He has served in the Senate for 23 years and has also served as the lieutenant governor of Massachusetts under Michael Dukakis.

In November 2020, then President-elect Joe Biden named Kerry as the U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate.

[[White blood cell]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Immunology, Blood cells

The job of white blood cells (also called leukocytes) is to fight infections and cancer. They also remove poison, waste and damaged cells from the body.

The number of white blood cells increases when a person is fighting infection or disease and decrease when a person is healthy.

[[Lymphocyte]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Immunology, Blood cells

Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell (or leukocyte). They help an organism to fight infections. They occur in the immune system of all vertebrates. All lymphoctes have a large, blob-like nucleus.

Lymphocytes can be divided into three main types:

== Types == 

[[Author]]

CATEGORIES: Writers

An author is a person who writes  books, stories, poems, or other written work.  Their writing can be truth or fiction, short or long.  Often, author is a word for a professional writer, but any person who writes may also be called that.

Sometimes, a person who creates something that is not prose is called an author. Someone who writes music may be called the author of that piece of music, though we would usually call that person a composer. In the film world, the French word for author, auteur, is often used about someone who has been both the writer and director of a movie. 

In biology, the first person to write an article that gives a name to and describes a type of living thing is the author of that name. 

In copyright law, the author is the first owner of copyright.  Such laws also apply to other works of art such as pictures or music.

[[Pedipalp]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy, Arachnids

Pedipalps are the two appendages on the front of a spider's head. Some spiders seem to have ten legs and not eight, because these pedipalps look like an extra pair of legs. The pedipalps are used rather like arms.  Spiders often use them to hold insects (for example crickets) for them to eat.

Male spiders also use pedipalps for mating.  The male spiders make some silk, put sperm onto the silk, and then put their pedipalps into the sperm.  The pedipalps then hold the sperm, and the spider can use it to mate with a female by putting them inside her epigynum.

[[Ionic compound]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

In chemistry, an ionic compound is a compound made of ions. They have strong ionic bonds between particles. Lots of energy (heat) is required to break the bond apart, resulting in high melting and boiling points. The ions join together because they have different charges. Compounds of metals and non-metals are usually ionic. They are made when two or more atoms come close together and an electron goes from one atom to the other atom. The electron does this because both atoms want a full outer shell, similar to those of the noble gases.

Note 1: carbon and silicon in Group 4 usually form covalent bonds by sharing electrons.

Note 2: the elements in Group 0 do not react with other elements to form ions.

[[ELISA]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

The ELISA method (Enzyme Linked Immuno-Sorbent Assay) is a technique used in biochemistry to determine if a certain substance--such as a specific cytokine or antigen--is present within a sample. It is sometimes abbreviated as "EIA."

This technique uses special antibodies that attach themselves to the substance. These antibodies generate a specific color. The amount of color indicates the amount of substance present. (Sometimes, the substance must be viewed under ultraviolet light for the antibodies to generate this color.)

Another set of antibodies are used to "capture" the substance. These antibodies adhere to both the substance and the testing container, thus holding the substance in place.

A more sophisticated and sensitive technique, the ELISPOT method, was derived from the ELISA techique.

[[David Hume]]

CATEGORIES: 1711 births, 1776 deaths, People from Edinburgh, 18th century philosophers

David Hume (7 May 1711 – 25 August 1776) was a philosopher and historian from Scotland. When he was still alive, people thought of him as a historian. He wrote a series of large books called The History of England. But today, people think of Hume as an important philosopher.

In his books on philosophy, Hume said that many of our beliefs do not come from reason. Instead, they come from our instincts or feelings. For example, reason does not tell us that one thing causes another. Instead, we see one thing and then we see another, and we feel a link between the two. Similarly, reason does not tell us that someone is a good person. Instead, we see that the person is kind and friendly, and we feel a special moral feeling. Because Hume thought that these beliefs do not come from reason, people call him a "skeptical" or "anti-rationalist" philosopher.

Hume is famous for his 'Induction Fallacy'. This draws attention to a common mistake people make. People see something, and make claims that what they see will always be as they see it. For example, people see only white swans and claim that all swans are white. This is 'fallacious' or mistaken, because it is always possible that they then will see a black swan.

Hume was also skeptical about religion. He was not a religious person and religious people did not like his opinions. He did not believe in miracles. He said that suicide wasn't always wrong, but never said whether or not he believed in God. In 1776, when he was dying, his friends found him very calm about death, despite him not believing in an Afterlife. Today, Hume's books are very important to philosophers who are interested in religion.

Today's philosophers sometimes use the term 'Hume's fork' to refer to Hume calling everything we can think about either a relation of ideas (things like mathematics, that must be true) or a matter of fact (like science, where we have to look at things to tell whether or not they are true).

Another philosopher, Immanuel Kant, read some of Hume's books and changed his mind about some important things. Kant said Hume had made him wake up from a sleeping dogmatism, the traditional metaphysics.

Here are Hume's most important books:

[[Bath]]

CATEGORIES: Home, Hygiene

A bath (UK English) or bathtub (US English) is a basin large enough for people sit in when washing their body.  The bath is usually in the bathroom.  A less common name for a bath is a washtub.

Sometimes people will add scents, oils and salts to the bath for better experience.

A bath is also a place where people can sit in water (or other liquids, often hot) for their health. This is where the town name Bath comes from. Public baths for relaxing were built in all parts of the Roman Empire.

[[Brush]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Tools

A brush is a tool with bristles or wires or other filaments sticking out. There are many kinds. Most brushes have a long part at one end to hold (the handle), on the other end from the head that carries the bristles or filaments. We use brushes for cleaning, making hair look good, painting, and other purposes. 

[[Starch]]

CATEGORIES: Carbohydrates

Starch is a complex carbohydrate. It is made of many glucose units joined by chemical bonds. This polysaccharide is produced by most green plants as an energy store. It is the most common carbohydrate in human diets. Pasta, potatoes, bread, and other starchy foods are made out of carbohydrates. 

[[Thomas Hobbes]]

CATEGORIES: 1588 births, 1679 deaths, 17th century philosophers, English philosophers

Thomas Hobbes (5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679) was a philosopher from England. His most famous book is Leviathan (1651).

[[Trevi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Italy, Settlements in Umbria

Trevi (Latin: Trebiae), an old town and comune of Italy, in the province of Perugia in east central Umbria, 42°53N 12°45E, at 424 meters (1391 ft) above sea-level on the lower part of Mt. Serano above the wide plain of the Clitunno river. It is 10 km (6 mi) S.S.E. of Foligno and 20 km (12 mi) N. of Spoleto. The 2003 count of people by the government said that there were 7800 people living in the comune: about half of the people live in the town and the other people live in the country near town. The frazioni of Trevi (the smaller towns that belong to Trevi) are Borgo, Bovara, Cannaiola, Coste, Pigge, Manciano, Matigge, Parrano, Picciche, S. Lorenzo, S. Maria in Valle.

Most of the town is densely built with many buildings predating the 18th century. It crowns a summit and when one is in the centre the streets are mostly gently sloping. From the town one can see one of the best views in Umbria, over 50 km (30 mi) to the west and on clear days as far as Perugia to the north and even Monte Amiata in southern Tuscany. On the main train route from Rome to Ancona there is a station at the botton of Monte Serano servicing Trevi but the rapid Intercity services do not stop. The train service from Florence to Rome by way of Perugia also stops there: Local bus connections are not frequent. Trevi is a pleasant place to visit and of recent accommodation and good eating has become available; there are few restaurants, but they are good and more numerous than in other nearby small towns. 

[[Nicomachus]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Nicomachos or Nicomachus is a Greek name. It can mean:

[[Logo]]

CATEGORIES: Symbols

A logo is a picture or drawing that is used by a person, group, or company to mark who they are. A wordmark, or 'logotype', is a logo made entirely of a word or words. It is usually the name of a product or organisation.

A company or group can use a 'logo' on the things that they make, like on the things they sell, on letters, and in advertisements. When a person sees the logo picture, that person knows that the thing they see the logo on came from that company.

Logos can have letters and words in them. Many logos have the name of the company or group in them.

Most logos are very simple drawings with only a small number of colors. Some logos are only in black and white.

In many countries, companies and groups should tell their country's government about the logo they are using. If they do this, the government can help stop a different company or group from using the same logo, so that every one can be sure that the logo is only used by the people who used it first. This is sometimes called a 'trade mark'.

Logos are not used only by companies. Many schools have logos. Some cities have logos. Clubs can have logos. Even people can have their own logos if they want. The heraldic badge is probably the oldest form of logo in the world.

[[Picture]]

CATEGORIES: Graphics

A picture, also called an image, is a group of coloured points on a flat surface that looks the same as something else. For example, a picture can look the same as an object or a person. Pictures can also be drawings, paintings or photographs. People who make such pictures are called artists, photographers or painters.  Pictures are very helpful.  Sometimes people say pictures are worth a thousand words.  Pictures and diagrams can be used to explain how to do things, and thus a picture is a kind of tool. A moment captured in an image.

An image is something that can be seen, but it is not physically there.  It can be a photograph, a painting, or a picture on a television or computer screen.  A lens can make an image of an object appear somewhere else.  Cameras use this to make the image that becomes a photograph.

[[Building]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures, Civil engineering

Building may be a noun or a verb. Building is one of the most ancient human skills. It is part of how we have survived and it is the clearest symbol of every civilization. Although some other animals build simple structures, e.g. birds, ants and bees, humans have learned to build in a great many different ways to suit different needs and local conditions. We build mostly for shelter. Buildings can shelter people, or animals, or machinery, or anything. The simplest building is just a roof to keep the space beneath dry, or shady. Adding walls gives more shelter, from the wind or rain. It also gives security. 

By putting a window in a wall with or without glass, we let light inside the building. We leave a hole somewhere big enough to go in and out, with a door which can be opened and closed. Often the door will have a lock so the building can be left secure.

If a building is to last for a long time, it must have a solid foundation. This foundation is like the root of a tree, which is sunk a bit deep into the ground and supports the walls. If the ground is soft, the foundation must be very deep and strong so that the building can have a strong contact with the ground. 

If a building is high enough, it can have more than one floor. People can climb from one floor to the next by a staircase, or perhaps by a lift or elevator. This is known as going upstairs, or downstairs. Buildings can also have a floor under the ground. This is usually called a cellar or basement.

Buildings can be beautiful or ugly, exciting or boring. Architects are people trained to design buildings. Their work is called architecture and it can be an art form. Look at the building where you are reading this. Look at the shapes and shadows. Is there enough light? Do some rooms make you feel like staying in them while others make you want to hurry away? Do they have interesting features? Think about how you could have made the building better. Almost anybody can become an architect if they want to.  But only a good architect or a good builder can design or build a beautiful building.

[[Candle]]

CATEGORIES: Light sources, Fire, Christian symbols

A candle is a stick made of wax with a string (a thin piece of rope) straight in the middle. If someone puts the string on fire, the flame burns slowly but for a long time.

Fire can burn string very fast. But in a candle, the string does not burn fast, because the fire melts the wax instead. The wax sometimes drips down the side of the candle. When the melted wax is far from the flame, it gets hard again, and can be used again in a new candle. 

The flame is very hot, since it is a very small, real fire. The light blue part of the flame can be as hot as 1400. It can still burn people and things. If the fire spreads, it can grow into a very big fire and even burn down a house or building. 

If the flame is kept on the candle long enough, the candle will slowly get shorter and shorter until it is gone. The fire on a candle can be put out by blowing air on it. There is also a special tool called a "candle snuffer" that covers the fire with a small metal cup and puts it out. Today, candle snuffers are usually only used in churches or in places where candles are up very high. Stopping the fire stops the candle from burning until it is all gone.

Before light bulbs, candles were used so people could see at night. Some people still use candles today when electricity is down, or because they like the little amount of light that candles make. Some people also like candles because they look nice, or because they smell nice. A special kind of candle called "citronella" can help keep bugs away.

[[Salamander]]

CATEGORIES: Salamanders

Salamanders are amphibians. They are the order Caudata (or Urodela). There are about 500 different species.

Salamanders live in water and on land, and look rather like lizards, with four legs and a tail. They hatch as larvae from eggs in the water. At that stage, they have gills that stick out.

Most salamanders live on land when they are adults, after their change of shape (metamorphosis). On land, salamanders live in moist habitats. Their method of respiration varies. Some salamanders stay in the water, but look like adults. These are called newts. Some salamanders retain gills into sexual maturity, such as the Axolotl. This process is called neoteny.

Often, salamanders may have a chemical defence to predators; they are poisonous to eat. In this case, they will have warning colouration. Otherwise, if not poisonous, they will usually have camouflage.

Salamanders are the only tetrapods able to regenerate limbs, as well as other body parts.

[[Newt]]

CATEGORIES: Newts, Amphibians

Newts or efts are small amphibia. They are in a  subfamily of the salamanders. They are found in North America, Europe, and North Asia.

[[Poison]]

CATEGORIES: Poisons, Basic English 850 words, Health

Poisons are substances which cause death or injury when taken in by a living thing. It may be taken in as drink or food, or absorbed through the skin. The damage is usually done by a chemical reaction. The effect of the poison varies with the amount which is absorbed (taken in or inhaled). Substances which are poisonous are called toxic, but any substance can be toxic if too much of it is consumed. If poisoning causes death, it is lethal poison.

Legally, and in hazardous chemical labeling, poisons are especially toxic substances. Less toxic substances are labeled "harmful", "irritant", or not labeled at all.

In medicine and zoology, toxins and venoms are different from poisons. Toxins are the result of a biological process. Venoms are substances which the organism uses to harm other species. Certain organisms use venoms for hunting, or as a defense. If an organism is poisonous, such as many mushrooms, it is harmful to eat. If it is venomous, like snakes or honeybees, it has a harmful bite or sting. For some very deadly bites humans have developed effective antivenoms. 

Often it is only the quantity of a substance that makes the difference. Drinking alcoholic drinks may lead to aggressive behaviour, problems with speech, and different forms of amnesia. This effect is called intoxication. People who drink even more may go into shock.  At the same time, alcohol can be used as a disinfectant.

Sometimes, poisons have an antidote. The antidote of a poison will slow or reverse its effects. The antidote may itself be a poison. As an example, atropine can be used as an antidote against certain nerve gases, like tabun or sarin, or against certain insecticides. It is also used as a medication.  In high doses, atropine is a poison. Yet atropine is a core medicine in the World Health Organization's "essential drugs list".

There are other types of dangerous materials. These are:

Pollution is also sometimes poisonous, for example toxic waste.

[[Powder]]

CATEGORIES: Materials, Cosmetics

Powder is very small, dry pieces or grains. When we press some dry solids very hard, or when we cut something up into lots of small pieces, we can sometimes make powder.  

For example, people sometimes put face powder on their faces, when they want to look good. Sometimes sports players put powder on their hands, to make them dry. We put curry powder in our food, to make it taste stronger. We put washing powder in the washing machine when we want to have clean clothes. People use gunpowder to make bombs and fireworks.

"Powder" is also a verb - meaning to apply powder.

[[Larva]]

CATEGORIES: Animals, Developmental biology

Many animals develop in separate stages. A larva (plural: larvae) develops from the egg in those animals. It is a separate life stage from the adult reproductive stage. A larva does not look like the adult animal, and changes shape (known as metamorphosis) as it grows up. There may be several larval stages before the adult form. Tadpoles, maggots and caterpillars are larvae.

Marine organisms with a larval stage often release large numbers of eggs and sperms into the water column. After fertilisation, the eggs develop into tiny larvae. The larvae develop and grow for some time before metamorphosing into adults. Most marine invertebrates and many fish have a pelagic larval stage or pelagic eggs. These live in the plankton, and may be transported long distances.

[[Amphibian]]

CATEGORIES: Amphibians

Amphibians are members of the class Amphibia. The living ones are frogs (including toads), salamanders (including newts) and caecilians. They are four-legged vertebrates which are cold blooded.

Amphibians lay their eggs in water, usually in a foam nest. After hatching they are tadpoles, which live in the water and have gills. The tadpoles change into adults in a process called metamorphosis.  When they are adult, they have lungs to breathe instead of gills, and legs. Adult amphibians also use their skin to take in oxygen, and some species of salamanders do not have lungs.

The earliest amphibians evolved in the Devonian from lobe-finned fish which had jointed leg-like fins with digits. They could crawl along the sea bottom. Some had developed primitive lungs to help them breathe air when the stagnant pools of the Devonian swamps were low in oxygen. They could also use their strong fins to hoist themselves out of the water and onto dry land if necessary.

For tens of millions of years, during the Carboniferous and early Permian, amphibia were top predators on land, especially in the low-lying tropical river systems.  In drier conditions, they were less effective, and the ancestors of mammals and reptiles (the Synapsids and Sauropsids) gradually took over the land. They laid cleidoic eggs, which had hard shells, and could be laid out of water. Most of the early large amphibians went extinct in the Triassic period; a few survived to the Lower Cretaceous.

The only living amphibiana today are the Lissamphibia. These include the Anura (frogs and toads), Caudata (salamanders and newts) and Gymnophiona (caecilians). They are all rather small, compared with mammals or reptiles. The smallest frog and vertebrate in the world is the New Guinea frog (Paedophryne amauensis). The biggest amphibian is the Chinese giant salamander (Andrias davidianus).

Amphibia are found everywhere in the world, except Antarctica, and there are about 5,565 different species: 88% of them are in the Anura. In number of species, they are more successful than mammals, though they occupy a smaller range of habitats. However, it is said that amphibian populations have been declining all over the world. Conservation is therefore an important concern.

[[Father]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Family

A father (also called dad or daddy) is a male parent. Most human beings are born from a mother and a father. The father of a person's husband or wife is their father-in-law. Fathers determine the gender of their child through a sperm cell which either contains an X chromosome (female), or Y chromosome (male).

[[Gill]]

CATEGORIES: Animal anatomy, Anatomy of the respiratory system

Gills are what fish, amphibians, and some other animals use to breathe in water. They have feathery parts which cause water to move across the animal's body, which contains dissolved oxygen, after the animal has swallowed the water. The oxygen is absorbed into the animal's blood, causing carbon dioxide moves out of the animal's blood and into the water through the gills.

Fish and frog gills are hidden on the sides of their heads. Sharks have many gills slits on their necks. Baby salamanders have gills that stick out like leaves from their heads.

In mushrooms, gills are the spore-bearing structure in agarics (gilled mushrooms) while fish and some young amphibians use them to get oxygen others breath.

Some insects that live in water have a plastron, which is a kind of gill. It is a patch of special hairs that keeps the water away from the insect's spiracles. This allows them to continue to take in oxygen and remove carbon dioxide while they are under water.

[[Frog]]

CATEGORIES: Frogs, Amphibians

Frogs are amphibians and vertebrates of the order Anura. There is not much difference between frogs and toads, and they are not classified separately. This is because the toad lifestyle, with its dry, rough, skin, is an adaptation to living in drier habitats. The toad form has evolved a number of times independently, an example of convergent evolution. 

Frogs can live on land and in fresh water. They cannot survive in salt water. Their development is by metamorphosis. They usually hatch as tadpoles  from eggs, which are laid by a female frog. The eggs are called frogspawn. Tadpoles have tails and gills. The next stage, the "froglet," develops lungs to breathe air instead of gills, but still have tails. The fully grown frog has long legs and no tail.

Adult frogs can jump with their legs. They have long tongues that they use to catch bugs. They make a sound called a croak. Some species live in trees, and some types of frog are protected by being poisonous. Frogs live all over the world. If a foreign species of frogs is introduced to another country, the local ecosystem might be affected.

Frog legs are sometimes eaten as food in France, China, and the Midwest of the United States.  The killing of frogs might have an effect on the ecosystem. For example, frogs eat mosquitoes. If frogs are killed, then there are fewer frogs to eat mosquitoes, so more and more mosquitoes are born. Therefore, in these areas, there are more diseases that mosquitoes carry, because there are more mosquitoes. However, for this to apply, frogs would have to be a major predator of mosquitoes. This would only rarely be the case.

Frogs are members of the class Lissamphibia, the only class of amphibia which has survived to the present day.

[[Chemical compound]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical compounds

A chemical compound is a chemical formed from atoms of different chemical elements. The different atoms are joined by chemical bonds. Each compound has a fixed ratio between the elements.

The elements stick together so strongly that the compound behaves like one substance. The chemical that is made depends upon what atoms it is made of and how they are joined together.  

Chemical compounds can be liquids, like water which is made from atoms of hydrogen and oxygen joining together. They can also be solids, like sodium chloride that contains sodium and chlorine atoms. We get compounds from natural sources such as plants or make them in laboratories. Compounds can be made from others by scientists and these are called synthetic chemicals.

When different compounds are mixed together they may have a chemical reaction. 

Some chemical compounds can be dangerous but are safe if they are used the right way. Most dangerous chemicals are only used by scientists who have had special training in how to handle and use them. These chemicals might be poisonous, corrosive, explosive, they may catch fire easily, or they may react with other substances.

People who work in factories near chemicals often wear special clothes that stop the chemicals from hurting their body.

[[Wood]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Wood

2. Common Beech

3. Sycamore

4. Oak

5. Birch

6. Sugar Maple

7. Microberlinia

8. African Rosewood

9. Okoumé

10. Common Walnut

11. Brazilian Rosewood

12. Ebony]]

Wood is the main substance in trees. It is mainly formed by the xylem vessels which carry water up the plant. The two main substances in wood are cellulose and lignin. Wood is used to make buildings and furniture, and also for art. Firewood is a fuel. Paper is made from wood fibres. Wood is a renewable resource although it has become scarcer in recent centuries.

Wood is hard to cut, but it is also strong. A lumberjack is a person who cuts down trees. After a tree falls, the wood in it can be cut into long, straight pieces called lumber. Lumber can then be used to make posts, or put together with nails, screws, or even glue to make wooden frames for other shapes.

Wood comes in many different kinds. Oak, maple (hardwood) and pine and redwood (softwood) are widely used types of wood. Woods are usually divided into softwood (from conifers) and hardwood from flowering plants.

[[Chalk]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Carbonate rocks, Writing tools, Cretaceous

Chalk is a type of limestone. It was made by calcareous (CaCO3) skeletons of tiny planktonic algae called coccoliths. They live in the sea in huge numbers. They make chalk (CO2) as a by-product of their photosynthesis. The chalk cliffs of Dover and elsewhere were made when England was below the equator in a tropical sea. It was in the Upper Cretaceous, when the Earth was even warmer than now. There are coccoliths today, but not the same species as formed the white cliffs.

Air and water do not wear chalk away easily, so when chalk is next to the sea, it often makes a large cliff. The "White Cliffs of Dover" in Kent, England are a good example of this. Chalk holds water, so these chalk hills may have a lot of water in them. When the weather is very dry, water comes slowly from the chalk. 

Blackboard chalk is not real chalk. It is really gypsum (calcium sulfate), but people call it "chalk". People use it for drawing on hard things, because it is soft. If this chalk is rubbed on something hard or rough, it will leave a mark. People often write with chalk on a chalkboard or blackboard. A chalk eraser or water can be used to clean the chalk marks away so the board is clean again. Shops usually sell blackboard chalk in sticks that are about 5 cm long.

There are also big pieces of soft chalk for children to write on the ground with, for example on concrete (such as a sidewalk) or on asphalt. It is usually okay to write on the ground with this kind of chalk, because the rain will wash the chalk away.

Tailors' chalk is not real chalk either. It is talc (magnesium silicate). Tailors use it to draw on material when they are making clothes.

[[Utilitarianism]]

CATEGORIES: Philosophical movements and positions, Ethics

Utilitarianism is the view that the right thing to do is whatever is most useful. It is a Philosophical movements and positions about ethics. The word "utilitarianism" comes from the word "utility", which means "usefulness". In most forms of utilitarianism, things that increase human well-being or happiness are called useful. This is not limited to the happiness caused by a single action but also includes the happiness of all people involved and all future consequences.

In general, the theory of utilitarianism is that whatever brings the most happiness to the greatest number of people is the right thing to do.

[[Village]]

CATEGORIES: Villages

A village is a place where people live, normally in the countryside. It is usually larger than a hamlet and smaller than a town or city.  In some places, it may be a kind of local government. The dwellings in a village are clustered fairly close to one another, not scattered broadly over the landscape.

In the past, villages were where most people lived. Villages were a usual form of community for societies that do subsistence agriculture, and for some non-agricultural societies. After the industrial revolution, when people started making a lot of things in factories, people lived more in towns. Moving to towns is called urbanization. When villages grow a lot they can grow into towns and then cities. This is what happened to Dubai and Chicago.

[[Chelmsford]]

CATEGORIES: Chelmsford, County towns in England

Chelmsford is the only city in the county of Essex, England. It is 32 miles northeast of London, about halfway to Colchester. It is nearly in the centre of the county and it is the county town of Essex, but it is not the biggest or the oldest town in the county. It is the centre of the borough of Chelmsford, which is a bigger place than the city.

Chelmsford has the smallest cathedral in England. John Dee, who wrote the English version of Euclid, went to the Cathedral school in the sixteenth century. Chelmsford is also home to some of the Anglia Ruskin University campuses.

[[Gangnihessou]]

CATEGORIES: History of Africa, Kings and queens, 16th century births, 17th century deaths

Do-Aklin or Gangnihessou (Ganye Hessou) or Dogbari was the first of twelve kings of Dahomey in Africa. Gangnihessou might have been the king around the year 1620. One of his symbols was a bird called "gangnihessou" after his name. His other symbols were a drum, and sticks used for throwing or hunting. He had a younger brother called Dakodonou, who was a king. Some historians think Gangnihessou was not actually a king. Instead, Gangnihessou might have led people by giving advice to his brother.

[[Contract bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Contract bridge, Card games

Contract bridge, or simply bridge, is a trick-taking card game which is played by two pairs of players, one pair against the other pair. Partners sit opposite each other at a table.

Millions of people play bridge worldwide in clubs, tournaments, online and with friends at home. It is one of the world's most popular card games. The World Bridge Federation is the governing body for international competitive bridge.

The game consists of a number of "deals". Each deal goes through four phases: dealing the cards, the auction (also referred to as bidding), playing the cards, and scoring the results. Most club and tournament play uses duplicate bridge, where the cards are not re-dealt during a session. The same deals are played by most or all players. This allows comparative scoring.

[[No]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

No is an English word which has a negative meaning. It is the antonym (opposite) of the word Yes, which is a positive term.

No is used when someone is denying or turning away something. It can also be used in different figures of speech.

In both sentences and talking, the words "No" and the word "Not" can both be used, though the word "No" is mainly used when speaking to other people. In some cases, however, "Not" is not acceptable, and vice versa. These words are not to be confused with the similar sounding words know and knot.

Examples of proper usage of "No" and "Not":

Examples of improper usage of "No" and "Not":

[[Leon Trotsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1940 deaths, Government ministers, Jewish politicians, Jewish writers, Marxism, Murders by blade weapons, People murdered in North America, Political activists, Russian communists, Russian historians, Russian Jews, Russian murder victims, Russian politicians, Russian Revolution, Soviet Jews, Ukrainian Jews

ru-Leon Trotsky.ogg (Лев Давидович Троцкий; also transliterated Leo, Lev, Trotskii, Trotski, Trotskij and Trotzky; October 26 (O.S.) = November 7 (N.S.), 1879 in Kropyvnytskyi (nowadays Ukraine) - August 21, 1940 in Coyoacán, Mexico) was the public name of Leib or Lev Davidovich Bronstein. He was a Russian revolutionary and political theoretician. He was of Jewish-Ukrainian descent.  After leading the Red Army in the Russian Civil War, he disagreed with other Bolsheviks and had to leave Russia.

Trotsky was a socialist and a Marxist.  In 1905 there was a revolution in Russia. Trotsky helped organize a committee of workers in St Petersburg which was called the Soviet. When the leader of the Soviet was arrested, Trotsky became leader of the Soviet in his place.  Trotsky helped to expand on the idea of Permanent Revolution, which is a theory originally thought up by Karl Marx.

After the revolution Trotsky left Russia for his own safety. In 1917, he returned to Russia because of the Russian Revolution. He helped to bring about communism in Russia and defend it during the Russian Civil War. He was in charge of the army at this time.  When the leader of the Bolsheviks (the party who led the revolution) Vladimir Lenin died, Trotsky became involved in a power struggle with Joseph Stalin for the leadership of the party.  He lost, and Stalin came to power. He had to leave Russia because of Stalin, who was now his own enemy and wanted to harm Trotsky. In 1938 Trotsky founded the Fourth International. Stalin had one of his spies, Spaniard Ramón Mercarder, stab Trotsky to death in Mexico in 1940.

People who believe in Trotsky's ideas are called Trotskyists and follow Trotskyism. The main Trotskyist organizations today are the Fourth International (post - Reunification), the Socialist Workers Party in the UK and the International Socialist Tendency.

In the novel Animal Farm by George Orwell, Trotsky is represented by Snowball the pig and Stalin is represented by Napoleon who was also a pig. The book reflected real world events.

[[Second International]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, 1889 establishments, Political organizations, 1916 disestablishments

The Second International (1889–1916) was an organization created on July 14, 1889, by socialist and labour parties who wanted to work together for international socialism. It continued the work of the First International, which stopped being an organization in 1886. However, it did not include the still-powerful anarcho-syndicalist movement and trade unions.

Among the Second International's most famous actions were its 1889 declaration of May 1 as International Labor Day and its 1910 declaration of March 8 as International Women's Day.

The International's permanent executive and information body was the International Socialist Bureau (ISB). It was located in Brussels and formed after the International's Paris Congress of 1900. Emile Vandervelde and Camille Huysmans of the Belgian Labour Party were its chair and secretary. Vladimir Lenin was a member from 1905.

Dadabhai Nauroji attended it's Paris commune in 1906.

[[Devon]]

CATEGORIES: Devon, Ceremonial counties of England

Devon is a county in southwest England. Sometimes called by its historical name Devonshire. Devon is the fourth largest county in England by area, and has the longest road network of any county in England.

[[Latin script]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome, Latin alphabet

Latin or Roman script, is a writing system used to write many modern-day languages. It is the most used writing system in the world today. It is the official script for nearly all the languages of Western Europe and of some Eastern European languages. It is also used by some non-European languages such as Turkish, Vietnamese, Malay language, Somali, Swahili and Tagalog. It is an alternative writing system for languages such as Serbian and Bosnian.

The alphabet is a writing system which evolved from a western variety of the Greek alphabet. It was the Etruscans who first developed it after borrowing the Greek alphabet, and the Romans developed it further. The sounds of some letters changed, some letters were lost and gained and several writing styles ('hands') developed. Two such styles were combined into one script with upper and lower case letters ('capitals' and 'small letters'). Modern capital letters differ only slightly from their Roman counterparts. There are few regional variations.

[[Insectivore]]

CATEGORIES: Animals

An insectivore is an animal or insect that eats mostly insects for food. An Anteater is an animal that eats ants. Insectivorous plants also eat insects. The Venus fly-trap is one of them.

To eat insects for food is not very easy because insects are small. Large insect-eating animals must eat many of them. Anteaters eat hundreds of ants every day.

Some omnivores like humans and bears also eat insects for food. There was once a taxonomic group of mammals called Insectivora. Most of its animals are now called Eulipotyphla.

[[Copy]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Copy means a thing that is made to look like another thing.

[[Vapor]]

CATEGORIES: water

Vapor (British English: vapour) is a mass of small drops of liquid which fly in the air, for example because the liquid has been heated.

The temperature at which each material turns into vapor is determined according to the air pressure.

[[Vehicle]]

CATEGORIES: Vehicles

A vehicle is a machine to move people and things. A vehicle is not alive. A horse can move people and things, but it is an animal, not a machine or a vehicle.

[[Line dance]]

CATEGORIES: Dance types

Line dancing is a form of group dancing that is done to either country or hip-hop music. The term line dance is derived from the idea that the group of people participating in the dance are all facing the same direction when conducting the series of moves in the line dance. A line dance can go from 32 beats upwards of up to 92 beats per minutes, and can also be either a 4 or 2 wall dance. When the dance starts off everyone is facing the front wall, after all of the counts of the dance are complete (let's say we were doing a 32 count dance) then everyone would finish the dance facing either the back wall or the left or right wall. One example of a line dance is the "Men In Black" line dance. This dance is usually done to a hip-hop song, such as "Yeah 3X", by Chris Brown. Once the first 32 counts of the dance are completed everyone will finish the dance facing the left wall, and would have turned one quarter to their left counter clockwise. Once the series of moves is completed 4 times the group will end up facing the front wall again.

[[Three Kingdoms of Korea]]

CATEGORIES: History of Korea

The Three Kingdoms of Korea were Goguryeo, Baekje and Silla. They existed between the 1st century BC and 7th century CE. There were some smaller kingdoms like Gaya, Dongye, Okjeo, Buyeo, Usan, Tamna, etc.

Baekje helped spread Chinese characters, Chinese culture, Han Buddhism, and other technology to Japan.

The Three Kingdoms period ended in 668: Silla allied with the Tang Dynasty to conquer Baekje and then Goguryeo. Korea unified under Later Silla. The Tang occupied the northern parts of Korea. After this Korea split during the North and South States period.

Besides Chinese records, the books Samguk Sagi and Samguk Yusa also record the history of the era. "Samguk" (Hangul: 삼국, Hanja: 三國) means "Three Kingdoms". 

[[Eckernförde]]

Eckernförde (Danish: Egernførde, sometimes also Egernfjord, Low German: Eckernför, sometimes also Eckernföör) is a German city in Schleswig-Holstein, Kreis Rendsburg-Eckernförde at the Baltic Sea near Kiel. The population is about 23,000.

All 24 German submarines are stationed in Eckernförde.

Eckernförde is a well-known touristic centre in Northern Germany.

[[Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria]]

CATEGORIES: 1863 births, 1914 deaths, Archdukes and Archduchesses of Austria, Assassinated people, Habsburg Dynasty, Murders by firearm, World War I people

Franz Ferdinand Karl Ludwig Josef of Austria, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria-Este (Franz Ferdinand Karl Ludwig Josef; Erzherzog von Österreich-Este) (18 December 1863 – 28 June 1914) was an Archduke (like a prince) of Austria and, from 1896 until his death, next in line to be the emperor of the former country called Austria-Hungary. He was killed in the city Sarajevo by Gavrilo Princip. Because of this, Austria declared war against Serbia, which started the first World War. 

[[Black Hand]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Europe, Serbia, 1911 establishments in Europe, 1910s establishments in Serbia

Black Hand or Crna Ruka, officially Ujedinjenje ili Smrt ("Unification or Death")  was a secret group of Serbian nationalists (Pan-Serbians). It was founded in 1911 in Serbia. 

Their aim was to create a country from other countries where Serbs lived, including Bosnia-Herzegovina which was a part of Austria-Hungary since 1908. 

[[Edmonton]]

CATEGORIES: Edmonton

Edmonton is the capital city of Alberta. In 2008, there were about 1,102,000 people in the Edmonton area.

Edmonton is just south of the middle of Alberta in the prairie part of the province. There are many farms close to Edmonton.

The city started as a trading post on the North Saskatchewan River. Edmonton turned into a city mostly over the last 100 years. 

Edmonton has of one of the world's largest shopping malls. This mall is called the West Edmonton Mall. This mall has over 800 stores, a hotel, an indoor water park, an indoor theme park, an ice skating rink, movie theatres, places to eat and drink, and other things to see. Many, many people visit the West Edmonton Mall. 

Edmonton also has more sun than all other cities in Canada. But other cities are warmer than Edmonton. Winter temperatures often are below -20 degrees Celsius. It is common for it be even colder (below -30 degrees Celsius) for a few days in January or February. However, the summer can be warmer than 25 or 30 degrees. The sun does not set until after 11 pm in June.

The city is also well known for its festivals. There are many popular events in both summer and winter, such as Heritage Days, the Folk Festival, and the Fringe.

Edmonton has many interesting places to visit. Places such as The Francis Winspear Centre for Music, the Valley Zoo, Fort Edmonton Park, the Muttart Conservatory,and Telus World of Science.

Edmonton is known as the city of champions, is home to the Edmonton Oilers of the National Hockey League, the Edmonton Eskimos of the Canadian Football League. The Edmonton Oilers have 5 Stanley Cup Championships, the Eskimos have 23 Western Division Championships, and 13 Grey Cup Championships.

The Edmonton tornado was the second deadliest tornado in Canada that struck the east side of the city in July 31, 1987.

[[Autarky]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Autarky is an economy that does no trade with the outside world. It is called  a self-sufficient economy or a closed economy too. It does not need any other countries or regions helping.

Autarky is rare in the modern world. An example of a currently run autarky is North Korea, but even it makes a small amount trade between some countries, like China and Japan.

[[Bonsai]]

CATEGORIES: Trees, Japanese culture

Bonsai is the Japanese art of growing small trees in pots. This is done by growing the tree in a small pot or tray and pruning (cutting) the branches and roots to keep the tree small over time. Bonsai trees are trained to grow into a shape that is pleasing to look at. The best bonsai trees appear to be old, and to have a shape that seems like a real tree except much smaller.

The word bonsai means "tree in tray" in the Japanese language. Bonsai is a very old art form in Japan. It is a Japanese form of the older Chinese art called penjing. Penjing is a Chinese art form that also uses trees growing in pots. Other nations also have arts like bonsai and penjing.

People like bonsai because it is nice to look at, and because it is fun to grow a bonsai tree. A bonsai tree can live for a very long time, longer than a person can live. In a family, a bonsai might be started by a grandparent, then given to a parent, then given to a child over many years.

A bonsai starts with a small tree. This tree can be grown from a seed, or can be found already growing in a yard or a park or the forest. It can also be bought from a plant store.

To make the bonsai, the small tree is taken out of the ground. Its roots are carefully cleaned of dirt. The roots may be trimmed (cut) a little to help them fit in a small pot. The branches may also be trimmed to make the tree smaller. Then it is put in a bonsai pot, which has low sides. Fresh soil (dirt) is put in the pot to cover the bonsai tree's roots. Then it is watered and put outdoors to live.

Good trees to make into bonsai have small leaves (pine tree needles are leaves too). If the leaves are too big, the bonsai will not look like a small tree. A good bonsai tree will have old-looking bark and old-looking roots too.

[[Chastity belt]]

CATEGORIES: BDSM

A chastity belt is a device locked around the wearer's genitals to prevent sexual intercourse. Chastity belts for women were introduced into Europe from Italy, and saw some limited degree of use during the Renaissance period.

They were not used until the 16th century, and then only rather rarely. They first became widely available as 19th-century anti-masturbation medical devices. Many of the belts on public display in museums have now been tested to determine their correct age, with the earliest found to originate in the early 1800s.

In modern times, belts for both men and women are used in BDSM.

[[Mount Arafat]]

CATEGORIES: Hills, Holy places in Islam, Geography of Saudi Arabia

Mount Arafat or Mount Arafah (جبل عرفات transliterated Jabal ‘Arafāt) is a granite hill east of Mecca in the plain of Arafat. Arafat is a plain about 20 southeast of Mecca. Mount Arafat reaches about 70 in height and is also known as the Mount of Mercy (Jabal ar-Rahmah). According to Islamic tradition, the hill is the place where the Islamic prophet Muhammad(SAW) (PBUH) stood and delivered the Farewell Sermon to the Muslims who had accompanied him for the Hajj towards the end of his life.

On the 9th of the month of Dhu al-Hijjah pilgrims go to Arafat from Mina, for the most important part of the Hajj. The Khutbah of Hajj is narrated and Zuhr prayer and Asr prayer are prayed together. The pilgrims spend the whole day on the mountain to supplicate to Allah to forgive their sins and to pray for personal strength in the future.

[[Ariel Sharon]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Deaths from stroke, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni, Israeli former political leaders, Israeli generals, Israeli opposition leaders, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish military people, Kadima politicians, Likud politicians, Prime Ministers of Israel, Tel Aviv University alumni

Ariel Sharon (February 26, 1928 – January 11, 2014) was an Israeli politician of Likud and later Kadima. Sharon was Prime Minister of Israel from 2001 to 2006.

[[Jameson]]

CATEGORIES: Whisky

Jameson is a famous brand of Irish whiskey.  It is amber in color and has quite a  strong smell. It is an alcoholic beverage.

In Ireland, people refer to it as Jemmie.

[[Syria]]

CATEGORIES: Syria, Members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation

Syria is a country in the Middle East, the west part of Asia. It borders (from south to north) on Lebanon, Israel, Jordan, Iraq, and Turkey. Its western part faces the Mediterranean Sea. Its eastern and northern parts are mountainous.

The current president and head of state is Bashar al-Assad. Syria's national capital is Damascus. The biggest city is Aleppo. The Syrian civil war began in 2011.

The population of Syria is 74% Sunni, 12% Alawi, 10% Christian.

[[Psychology]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Psychology is the study of the mind. The study also covers thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. It also falls under the academic domain; some parts of psychology follow the way of doing science: explains the mind, how it works, and what it shows through our actions.

When doing psychology, it has to deal with humans most of the time but animals beyond humans at some point.  People, experts or not, can't study psychology as a whole. So, we divide small parts of it one step at a time. Also, psychology has much in common with other fields that they overlap with one another. Some of these fields fall in natural sciences or not. 

Psychologists practice the field in the profession; they undergo long years of schooling than laypeople. These practitioners attempt to explain how minds function in the self (individual) and self with others (social). These attempts might also deal with how the body's way affects the mind--its processes and approaches. They can also be scientists in the field of social, behavioral, and cognitive.  

[[Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana, 1812 establishments in the United States

Louisiana (lōō-ē'zē-ăn'ə) is a state in the Southern United States of America. It had a population of about 4,533,372 people in 2010. The state has a total area of about 51,885. Louisiana is the 25th largest state by population and the 31st largest state by area. Louisiana is also known by its nickname, The Pelican State. The land that would become Louisiana was bought in the Louisiana Purchase in 1803. Louisiana became a state on April 30, 1812. It was the 18th state to become part of the United States. The people who live in the state are known as Louisianans. The state's capital is Baton Rouge, and its largest city is New Orleans.

Louisiana has coastal plains, marshs, and low ridges. All of the state is in the Sun Belt. Louisiana is in a sub tropical region, and has a diverse ecosystem. The climate of Louisiana Louisiana has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification Cfa). It has long, hot, humid summers and short, mild winters.

One third of the adults in Louisiana are obese. This is the highest rate in the United States.

Louisiana was settled by France and the influence of French culture is still a big part of Louisiana today. The French Quarter in New Orleans is one of the best known attractions in the state. It is known today for its special culture, unique food, as well as the holiday Mardi Gras which is most famous in New Orleans.

Louisiana was very badly damaged by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Much of the New Orleans area lies below sea level making flooding a serious problem.

Louisiana was first settled by Native Americans. Louisiana has a large Louisiana Creole population. Louisiana Creole people are a mixture of French, Native American and African American.

African slaves were enslaved in Louisiana.

[[Synonym]]

CATEGORIES: Words

A synonym is a word (or a phrase) which means the same thing as another word or phrase.

Examples:

Synonyms can be nouns, verbs, adverbs or adjectives, but both words must be of the same part of speech. That means, only a noun can be a synonym of another noun, only a verb can be a synonym of another verb, and so on.

One can find sets of synonyms in a thesaurus, which is a book listing groups of related words.

Some words are near-synonyms, which have similar but not exactly the same meaning.

[[Yosa Buson]]

CATEGORIES: 1716 births, 1784 deaths, Japanese artists, Japanese poets, People from Osaka

Yosa Buson was a Japanese Haiku poet and painter, usually referred to simply as "Buson". He is one of the greatest poets of the Edo period, comparable with Matsuo Basho and Kobayashi Issa.

He was born in Osaka, his real family name was Taniguchi (谷口). From 1758, he began to live in Kyoto, and he stayed there for rest of his life. He got married when he was 45 years old, and became a father of his daughter Kuno (くの).

[[Sandbox]]

Sandbox could mean:

In computing:

In music

[[Chopsticks]]

CATEGORIES: Food utensils

Chopsticks are sticks used in pairs as cutlery. Chopsticks are the traditional eating utensils of some countries including China, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, and Vietnam. They can be made of  wood, gold, silver, ivory, bamboo, or plastic. Gold and silver chopsticks are considerably heavier than normal wooden chopsticks and also considered to be extravagant.

Today chopsticks are mainly used in China and neighboring countries. Elsewhere, chopsticks are often used in restaurants serving oriental cuisines.

[[Telephone]]

CATEGORIES: Telephone

A telephone, also known as a phone, is a communication tool. Originally it was an electric tool transmitting analogue speech along wires. Now it is an electronic tool sending digital signals on wires or radio transmission. Using a telephone, two people who are in different places can talk to each other. Early telephones needed to be connected with wires which are called fixed or landline telephones. Modern mobile phones use radio waves.

[[Checkers]]

CATEGORIES: Draughts, Board games

Checkers or draughts is the name of several different board games. All of these games are similar. In every kind of checkers, the other player's pieces can be taken by being "jumped" over.

"Checkers" is the American name. In British English, and in various other English-speaking nations, these games are called "draughts."

The rules and championships are controlled by the World Draughts Federation.

[[Kobe, Hyōgo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Japan, Settlements in Hyōgo Prefecture

Kobe (Japanese: 神戸市; -shi) is a city in the Kansai region of Japan on the island of Honshu. It is the capital city of Hyōgo Prefecture.

Kobe is an important port city in the Kansai district of Western Japan. It is between the country's financial capital Osaka and Kyoto. It's population is around 1.53 million people as of 2008.

Kobe is next to the Seto Inland Sea. Its northern part, including the Rokko mountain, is hilly. A ropeway runs from the Rokko district in its southern area through Rokko mountain to the Arima Spa. Transportation includes, the Shinkansen train service, highways and roads along the coast. Many cargo trucks and tankers use the port. There is a ferry between Shanghai and Kobe periodically.

[[Oradea]]

CATEGORIES: County capitals of Romania

Oradea (pronunciation in Romanian: /o'ra.děa/, Hungarian: Nagyvárad, colloquially also Várad, German: Großwardein, former Varat, גרויסווארדיין) is the capital city of Bihor County, in Crişana, Romania.  There are 206,527 people in the city according to the 2002 census. Oradea is one of Romania's richest cities. Oradea is near the Hungarian border, on the river Crişul Repede. There are many Hungarians in the city.

[[Henry Ford]]

CATEGORIES: 1863 births, 1947 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Businesspeople from Michigan, Ford

Henry Ford (July 30, 1863 – April 7, 1947) was an American engineer and businessman. He started making cars in 1896 and founded the Ford Motor Company.

He developed the idea of a system in which each worker has the duty to do one small part of the process of making something. His idea made it possible to produce cars in large numbers. This was called the assembly line.

Many factories around the world still make things this way.  It was quite innovative at the time and it allowed him to produce many cars quickly and at a cheaper price than other car companies could. He married Clara Bryant and had one child named Edsel Bryant Ford. Ford left home for Detroit, Michigan to start his mechanical career.

[[George Orwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1950 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, English novelists, English poets, Infectious disease deaths in England, People of British India, Pen names, Democratic socialists

George Orwell (25 June 1903 – 21 January 1950) was an English dia during the British Empire's rule of India. He is best known for two novels that he wrote in the late 1940s, Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four. In those works, he said that totalitarianism, especially Stalinism, was very bad.

Orwell fought in the Spanish Civil War with the antifascist troops. These troops were against the dictatorship of fascist governments.

Orwell died of tuberculosis in London.

[[Genghis Khan]]

CATEGORIES: 1160s births, 1227 deaths, Mongolian people

Genghis Khan (c. 1167 – August 18, 1227) was a Mongolian ruler who became one of the world's most powerful military leaders, who joined with the Mongol tribes and started the Mongol Empire. He was a Mongol Emperor who was very successful in battles, conquering many other peoples such as the Jin Dynasty. He was a very strong and powerful emperor who occupied much of China and some surrounding countries of China. His children and his grandchildren started the largest empire in the world. Genghis Khan's grandson, Kublai Khan, was the first ever emperor of the Yuan Dynasty (1271–1368) in China.  

Genghis Khan's real name was Temüjin which means iron worker. Because of his military success people referred to him as Genghis, meaning "Universe ruler". Many people were killed by his armies and he gained a reputation as a "brutal monster". Genghis Khan died in the Liupan Mountains in northwestern China, in Aug. 1227  His burial site is unknown.

[[Joseph Stalin]]

CATEGORIES: 1878 births, 1953 deaths, Russian atheists, Deaths from stroke, Disease-related deaths in the Soviet Union, Former Christians, Former dictators, Politicians from Georgia (country), Joseph Stalin, Recipients of the Order of Lenin, Heads of government of the Soviet Union, Smallpox survivors, Soviet people of World War II, Time People of the Year, World War II political leaders

Joseph Stalin (born as Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili) (18 December 1878  – 5 March 1953) was a Georgian politician who became leader of the Soviet Union from 1922 until his death in 1953 from a cerebral haemorrhage.  He replaced Vladimir Lenin as leader of the Soviet Union. His ideas and policies turned the Soviet Union into a powerful, relatively modern country, as the largest on Earth. His way of thinking was called Marxism-Leninism, and his form of government was later called Stalinism.

Stalin invaded Poland on 18 September 1939. In the subsequent World War II, Stalin stayed neutral but signed a peace deal with Germany's leader Adolf Hitler.  He then led a bloody war after Germany invaded the Soviet Union. And after the end of the war Stalin gained control of all Eastern Europe including part of Germany. There, a series of loyal Marxist-Leninist single-party states were set up, extending his power and determining the Soviet Union's position as a superpower.

[[Antigua and Barbuda]]

CATEGORIES: Commonwealth realms, Antigua and Barbuda, 1981 establishments in North America, Caribbean Community

Antigua and Barbuda is an island nation in the eastern Caribbean Sea on the boundary with the Atlantic Ocean. Antigua and Barbuda are part of the Lesser Antilles archipelago.  In 2011, about 81,800 people lived there.  The capital and largest port and city is St. John's, on Antigua.  The country used to be a part of the British Empire. The nation still belongs to the British Commonwealth.

[[San Marino]]

CATEGORIES: San Marino, Italian-speaking countries

San Marino is one of the smallest countries in the world. It is found in southern Europe and is fully surrounded by Italy (this is called an enclave, and only the Vatican City, Lesotho and San Marino are like this). Fewer than 30,000 people live there. Its total area is 61 km2.  Its capital is the City of San Marino.

San Marino is the world's oldest republic that still exists. It was started on 3 September in A.D. 301 by a skilled builder called Saint Marinus. Its written constitution was adopted on October 8, 1600. The very small nation was recognized by Napoleon's France in 1797, and by the other European nations at the 1815 Congress of Vienna.

Even though it is an independent country, it depends very much on Italy. Since the 19th century, when Italy was unified, San Marino has been fully surrounded by Italy.

The biggest industry in San Marino is tourism. Selling postage stamps is an important source of income, too. San Marino is not a member of the European Union, but the euro is used in San Marino.

People in San Marino speak the Italian language. Most people in San Marino believe in Roman Catholicism.

[[Philippe's]]

CATEGORIES: American restaurants, Buildings and structures in Los Angeles, California, Companies based in Los Angeles, 1908 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in California

Philippe's is a sit-down restaurant in downtown Los Angeles, California, U.S.A.. It is at 1001 North Alameda Street, near Olvera Street. Phillippe's is famous for inventing the French dip sandwich (though another restaurant called Cole's claims to have invented it, too). It has been in business since 1908, and is the oldest operating restaurant in Los Angeles. The traditional meal served at Phillippe's is a French dip sandwich, a bag of potato chips, a soft-drink (preferably root beer or cola), and a tapioca pudding cup for dessert.April 2009

[[Orbit]]

CATEGORIES: Orbits

An orbit is the path that an object takes in space when it goes around a star, a planet, or a moon. It can also be used as a verb. For instance: “The earth orbits around the Sun.” The word ‘revolves’ has the same meaning, but 'rotates' is the spin of the object.

Many years ago, people thought that the Sun orbits in a circle around the earth. Every morning the Sun came up in the east and went down in the west. It just seemed to make sense that it was going around the earth. But now, thanks to people like Copernicus and Galileo Galilei, we know that the Sun is the center of the Solar System, and the earth orbits around it.  Isaac Newton discovered that gravity controls the orbit of the planets and moons.  Since a satellite is an object in space that revolves around another object, the earth is a satellite of the sun, just like the moon is a satellite of the Earth! The sun has lots of satellites orbiting around it, like the planets, and thousands of asteroids, comets, and meteoroids. The Earth just has one natural satellite (the Moon), but there are many artificial satellites orbiting the earth.

When people first began to think about orbits, they thought that all orbits had to be perfect circles, and they thought that the circle was a "perfect" shape. Copernicus and Galileo, for example, thought so. But when people began to study the motions of planets carefully, they saw that the planets were not moving in perfect circles. Some of the planets have orbits that are almost perfect circles, and others have orbits that are more oblong (egg shaped).

[[Funeral]]

CATEGORIES: death customs

A funeral is a ceremony that is held because someone has died. A funeral is a gathering of friends and family of the dead person. They will mourn the dead person, meaning that they will feel and show sadness that the person has died, and also say thanks for the life the person had. A funeral is usually held with the dead body present but hidden in a coffin, but there are also open casket funerals. During the funeral, or soon after it, the dead body will be buried, cremated (burned) or made to disappear in some other way. A memorial service or celebration of life is a funeral in which the dead body is not present.

[[Georgian Uprising of Texel]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 in Europe, 1940s in the Netherlands, Battles involving Canada, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving the Soviet Union, Battles involving the Netherlands, European battles of World War II, April 1945 events, May 1945 events, Texel

The Georgian Uprising of Texel (5 April 1945 – 20 May 1945) was an insurrection (a rebellion, or mutiny, when soldiers disobey their orders) by Soviet Georgian soldiers on the island of Texel. The uprising was against the Germans army who had taken over the Dutch island during the Second World War. The event  is sometimes described as Europe's last battlefield.

The island was very important in the German Atlantic Wall – the line of defences along the Atlantic coast. It was strong and had many defences. The Georgians were soldiers from the Soviet Republic of Georgia who had been captured (taken prisoner) on the Eastern front. They were now fighting for the Germans so that they did not have to stay in camps for prisoners. Their job was to help the German troops.

On the night of 5–6 April 1945 they thought that the Allies would land soon. They took over the island and killed 400 German soldiers. Some parts of the island stayed under German control and the Georgian soldiers could not capture them. More Germans were able to come to the island to help defeat the Georgians. After a few weeks of very tough fighting the Germans took control of the island again.

Unfortunately the British and Canadians, who were warned of the events on Texel by escapees who fled by boat to England, did not believe them, and did not take any action in order to stop the fighting. 

On Texel this is called the Russian war. Approximately 800 Germans, 500 Georgians, and 120 Tesselans (people from the island) were killed. Lots of farms were burned. Even after the Germans surrendered (gave up) in the Netherlands and Denmark on 5 May 1945, and after the full German surrender on 8 May, the fighting continued. Canadian soldiers stopped the fighting on 20 May.

The Georgian survivors did not have a happy ending. They were sent back to the Soviet Union. Stalin said that because the soldiers had been captured by the Germans, they had not fought until they died, so they were traitors. Some of the two million Soviet prisoners who were sent back to the Soviet Union by the Allied forces after the end of the war were executed (killed) when they got there. 

A museum at the airport on the island tells the story of this event.

[[Neutrino]]

CATEGORIES: Astrophysics, Elementary particles

Neutrinos are a type of elementary particle that exist all across the universe. The word neutrino means a small neutral particle. Physicists study these particles, but they are hard to find because they have a very small chance of interacting with regular matter. (For example, they usually pass through the whole earth without touching any other particles). Neutrinos travel near the speed of light.

Neutrinos are very difficult to detect. They are very unlikely to collide (interact) with other particles as they travel through space or through matter. Electrons have an electric charge, but neutrinos do not.  This means that neutrinos are unaffected by the electromagnetic force. The first detectors built to find neutrinos observed only 10 or 15 each year. Recent detectors use tanks that contain about a thousand tons of water or other liquid, which lets them detect about 10 to 100 neutrinos per day.

Neutrinos are generated in particle accelerators, in the sun, in other stars, and in nuclear reactions such as in nuclear reactors. They are generated whenever there is a nuclear reaction in the form of beta decay. This process starts off with one neutron, and ends with one electron, one proton, and one neutrino.

We used to think that neutrinos have no mass, but a few years ago physicists found that they have a very small mass, much lighter than electrons. By finding neutrinos, we can learn about the structure and the history of the universe. Since most of them pass easily through sun, physicists have learned about the reactions in the center of the sun that make the sun's heat, by detecting the neutrinos that come out from the sun's center.

The three types of neutrinos are named after the three leptons that have electric charge. There is the electron neutrino (ve), the muon neutrino (vµ), and the tau neutrino (vτ). Each neutrino has an antiparticle, called an antineutrino. Therefore, there is an electron antineutrino, a muon antineutrino, and tau antineutrino.

The three types of neutrinos change into each other over time, so an electron neutrino could turn into a muon or tau neutrino and then back again. This is called neutrino oscillation. This oscillation was suggested when then number of electron neutrinos from the Sun was measured in the 1960s, and the amount was only about a third of what theories at the time said there should be. The result of neutrino oscillation is that most of the electron neutrinos made in the Sun change to another type of neutrino .

Most neutrinos passing through the planet Earth come from the Sun. About 65 billion (6.5) solar neutrinos per second pass through every square centimeter of area, including our own bodies.  

This is true even on the night side of Earth, because nearly all the neutrinos from the sun pass easily through the Earth.

[[Play (theatre)]]

CATEGORIES: Plays

A play is a piece of writing (literature) which can be seen at a theatre or on television, or heard on the radio. Plays often show conversations between people. A play is usually watched, rather than being read.

The people who appear in a play are actors; in a theatre they stand on a stage so the people watching (the audience) can see them better. A director helps the actors to work better, or tells them how he wants the play to be.

Plays can be very interesting because they can be understood in many different ways. When the writer - the playwright - makes the play, he can not say how the actors or director will use it. Sometimes the playwright is also the director or an actor: Molière, for example, was often an actor in his plays. But the director can change the play in different ways: the actors' costume, the music, how people say things, how they move or what they hold. Modern directors can direct plays by Shakespeare, and these old plays seem modern now, too.

There are many sorts of plays, but there are six important sorts:

Symbolic can also be called expressionistic. Its all about how the writer or director presents ideas in a very different point of view.

[[Phrasal verb]]

CATEGORIES: Parts of speech, English language

Phrasal verb is the name given to an English verb which is composed of two or three words. One verb is combined with a preposition (like on, in, under) or an adverb (like up, down, away). Sometimes a phrasal verb can have a meaning that is very different to the meaning of at least one of those two or three words separately. Some text books call these verbs multi-word verbs. Phrasal verbs are used more frequently in everyday speech than in formal, official writing or speaking. 

Here are some examples:

Maria didn't know the word, so she looked it up in the dictionary.

Oh no, we've run out of milk! I'll have to buy some more.

Farmers have to get up early in the morning.

The rocket took off with a loud roar.

Often these phrasal verbs have a one-word equivalent in other languages. 

In Spanish, to get up can be translated as levantarse, in French as se lever etc.

[[Season]]

CATEGORIES: Seasons, Units of time

A season is a part of a year. Many areas of the Earth have four seasons in a year: spring, summer, autumn (British English) or fall (US English), and winter. 

In some areas, there are a different number of seasons.  For example, the tropical parts of Australia (the northern parts of Queensland, Western Australia and the Northern Territory) have wet and dry seasons.  These are in addition to, or replace the regular season names.

In places which are tropical and subtropical, there are two seasons: the rainy (or wet, or monsoon) season and the dry season. This is because the rain changes more than the temperature.

Summer is a warm season because the days are longer and the Sun is high in the sky, giving direct light to the ground.    Winter is a cold season because the days are shorter and the Sun is low in the sky, giving indirect light to the ground.  Both the changes in the length of the day and the height of the Sun at noon are caused by the tilt of the Earth's spin axis with respect to the plane of the Earth's path around the Sun.  At any time, in any season, the northern and southern hemispheres (halves of the Earth) have opposite seasons.

[[Carisbrooke Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Isle of Wight, Castles in England

Carisbrooke Castle is the Isle of Wight's only remaining medieval castle. It was built on a Roman site. The castle earthworks were begun in 1070. 

The shell keep was built on the site some 70 years later.  None of the Norman domestic buildings now remain.  The gatehouse with its drum towers dates from the 14th and 15th centuries.

In 1377 the French landed on the island but the castle was not attacked.

During Elizabethan times the threat of a Spanish invasion was avoided when the Spanish Armada was turned away at a nearby battle.  However, the castle was considerably altered to resist the new artillery.  Outer lines of defence were built enclosing the old castle.  The curtain walls, bastions, and bulwarks remain in good condition to this day.

Charles I was held as prisoner at the castle in 1647. An attempt to escape failed when he got stuck in the bars.

Later the castle was the occasional residence of the governor of the Isle of Wight and it became home to Princess Beatrice, youngest daughter of Queen Victoria, when she was governor.

[[Atlantis]]

CATEGORIES: Greek mythology, Ancient history

Atlantis is a name for a fictional large island or small continent that was (in the legend) in the Atlantic Ocean many years before it sank into the depth of the sea .

The name Atlantis first appears in the writings of Herodotus - he describes the western ocean as "Sea of Atlantis." Then, one generation later, Atlantis is described in detail in the stories Timaeus and Critias by the Greek philosopher Plato.  He used this story to help explain his ideas about government and philosophy. Plato was the only ancient writer who wrote specific things about Atlantis.

According to Plato, the Atlanteans lived 9000 years before his own time and were half human and half god.  They created a very good human society.  When they stopped being good people and did bad things, the gods sent earthquakes and fire to destroy Atlantis.

Many scholars think Plato could have been thinking of a real place when he wrote about Atlantis.  Many, many people have thought of many, many places where the real place that inspired Atlantis could have been.  For example, there was a Minoan kingdom on the island of Santorini.  The Minoan kingdom was very powerful thousands of years before Plato, and their society was damaged when a volcano erupted on their island. According to Plato, Atlantis was very large, as big as North Africa, so it should not have been hard to find.

After the discovery of the Americas, some people in Europe thought they might be Atlantis. However, after Plato, the idea of Atlantis was mostly forgotten until 1882, when a writer named Ignatius Donnelly wrote a book saying that Atlantis was real and that the culture of Atlantis had started many other ancient cultures, such as the Egyptian and Mayan.  Then other people became interested in Atlantis. 

Atlantis has appeared in many works of fiction.  In Marvel Comics, Atlantis is at the bottom of the ocean and exists in modern times, with people who breathe water.  Other works of fiction use Atlantis as background.  For example, Robert E. Howard set his Conan the Barbarian stories in a fictional time called the Hyborian Age, which began with the destruction of Atlantis and ended when real written history started.

[[Comparative]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar

Adjectives and Adverbs can be comparative in English and some other languages. When people are talking about two or more nouns, they can compare them (say the differences between them). The word which explains how they compare is called the comparative. They can also compare actions using adverbs.

Examples: (The comparative is in bold).

Many words can be made into a comparative by adding er to the end of the word. 

Words that end with the letter 'Y' can still be made into a comparative, but people change the 'Y' to an 'I' and then add 'ER'.

Some words cannot be made into a comparative by adding 'ER' Instead we use the word more in front. Most of these words have three or more syllables, such as beautiful, reliable. 

If people are not sure about a word, it is always acceptable to say "more" (something), such as "more beautiful", "more expensive".

Warning:  The 'ER' ending and the word "more" together cannot be used. 

[[US]]

CATEGORIES: Redirects from acronyms

[[Asbestos]]

CATEGORIES: Asbestos

Asbestos is a set of six silicate minerals which occur naturally. White asbestos makes up 95% of the asbestos found in buildings. It occurs in all parts of the world. It is fibrous, heat resistant and non flammable. These properties made it very attractive as a component in building materials and other products such as insulation and automobile brake pads. People have used asbestos throughout history. Ancient Egyptian people used asbestos. Asbestos is extremely dangerous for human health, as it can cause lung diseases such as asbestosis, emphysema and mesothelioma if the fibres get loose in the air. It can also harm animals such as livestock or pets.

Asbestos was linked to lung cancer in the early 1970s, and was replaced by other materials in most applications by 1980.

How to Remove Asbestos

When thinking about how to remove asbestos, it is important to follow these simple steps:

[[Syllable]]

CATEGORIES: Grammar

A syllable is a unit of pronunciation uttered without interruption, loosely, a single sound. All words are made from at least one syllable.

Monosyllables are words that have only one vowel sound; polysyllables have more than one. If a syllable ends with a consonant, it is called a closed syllable. If a syllable ends with a vowel, it is called an open syllable. Patterns of syllables can be shown with C and V (C for 'consonant', V for 'vowel'). Closed syllables are often shown as CVC (such as got), and open syllables as CV (such as go). Some languages like English have many kinds of closed syllables. Other languages, like Japanese, have few kinds of closed syllables. Other languages still, like Hawaiian and Swahili, have no closed syllables. 

Notice that the consonant (C) and vowel (V) notation does NOT match the letters of English spelling in a one-to-one relationship (e.g. 'th' is one sound), but rather individual sounds.

There are many words in English that have only one syllable. 

IPA has been added in slashes.

However, in several languages, such as English, syllables can have consonant clusters (having multiple consonants next to each other), which easily allow for words to have much more complicated syllables, such as:

There are many more words that have two or more syllables.

Some languages do not use an alphabet with letters. Instead, each sign may stand for a syllable. For example: Japanese can be written using Kana. A writing system based on syllables is called a syllabary. Since words in languages like English can have many different complex syllables (well over 10,000 can be produced in English), writing such languages using a syllabary would be completely impractical, thus alphabets are much better suited to write languages with complex syllable structures. However, since words in Japanese can be made with just a few simple syllables (around 90), writing such languages are well suited for the type of language.

[[Umbrella]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Tools

An umbrella is a hand tool that is used to stop rain from falling on a person. It is also used to make shade and protect people from sunlight. An umbrella made for protection from the sunlight is called a parasol. And a plastic umbrella is cheap but it is fragile.

[[Usenet]]

CATEGORIES: Internet communication, Internet culture

Netnews is a kind of online service that shares postings between a group of computers over a network. One kind of netnews is called usenet. Usenet was started in 1980, before the World Wide Web and is still very active today. Usenet provided a way for people to write postings on many different topics and share them with people all over the world. Postings are sent to all the computers in the community. This differers from a posting on a webserver, which stays on one computer until a person gets it with their web browser.

The community of computers comprising a Usenet typically does not include those of end users, e.g. home personal computers. Rather, that community consists of a group of cooperating servers. End users must have access to a member of the server community to read and post. Such access is typically achieved through the news feature of their email program or web browser or through a special program that specializes in netnews. Configuring the program requires the URL of a server, and often a user ID and password.

The servers in the Usenet community are independent in the sense that each gets to decide what portions of the Usenet they will serve to their users and how long postings will last on the server. For example, some servers may leave out the adult groups. Because postings have to be transmitted from computer to computer, a given posting takes some time to be available on all servers. Further, they may disappear from active groups on busy servers in a matter of days or weeks.

Because Usenet groups are frequently used to share large files, servers may have bandwidth and download limits. If you use a commercial service, it may offer a range of limits at different prices.

Query your Internet Service Provider to determine whether their servers are members of the Usenet community or whether they provide free access to one of the commercial services that offers access. You may have to seek out your own commercial service because many providers have their own alternative. AOL and MSN have their Communities; AT&T uses Yahoo! Groups.

A netnews service may not even be a community of computers. Any user could configure their personal computer to offer a netnews service. Organizations often offer their own netnews service independent of Usenet to support their customers and members. For example, news.microsoft.com is a very large community of Microsoft users and developers that help each other out.

Netnews groups have a long history and their own netiquette. Look for FAQ and netiquette postings to see the rules for any given group.

Groups may be moderated or unmoderated. Expect a lot of off topic and potentially offensive material on the unmoderated groups, which are the majority of Usenet.

[[Diagonal]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

Diagonal is a kind of straight line.  A diagonal line does not go straight up, down, or across. It is a line that connects two corners of a shape.    

In mathematics, "diagonal" has different meanings.  For example, in geometry a diagonal is any line that goes between the corners of a polygon. So a square has two diagonals, and a five-sided shape has five diagonals. In general the count of diagonal can be identified by a formula n(n-3)/2 where n is the total number of sides of shapes.

[[Kwashiorkor]]

CATEGORIES: Nutrition, Diseases and disorders of the digestive system, Hunger

Kwashiorkor is a health condition of poor nutrition from not having enough protein in the diet.  If a person uses up energy from carbohydrates (starches) and lipids (fats), their body may begin to use protein for energy. 

The body breaks down protein into energy that can be used. They then do not have enough protein for other needed bodily functions such as growth and building tissues like bones. Usually this is a condition of children from aged 1 to 5 years, but rarely adults and older children get it. It is common in poor places in Africa. Symptoms include having a pot belly, swollen face, and hair that is dark then light then dark. This can be cured by having a protein- rich diet.

Kwashiorkor comes from a protein deficiency (lack) in the diet. Body parts becomes swollen due to an accumulation of water in the spaces between the body's cells. Other symptoms are poor muscle development, swollen legs, puffy face, difficulty in eating, diarrhea, and dry skin are the symptoms of this disease.

[[Popocatépetl]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Mexico

Popocatépetl (also called El popo or Don Goyo) is an active volcano.   The volcano is the second highest mountain in Mexico after Pico de Orizaba (5,610m). It is 5426 high . 

[[North Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Seas of the Atlantic Ocean, Bodies of water of Europe

The North Sea is a sea that is part of the Atlantic Ocean in northern Europe. The North Sea is between Norway and Denmark in the east, Scotland and England in the west, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and France in the south.

[[Letter]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Letters (alphabet), Typography

In languages that use an alphabet, for example English, each symbol in the alphabet is a letter. Letters represent sounds when the language is spoken.

Some languages do not use letters for writing: Chinese, for example, uses "ideograms". 

In English and many other languages, the smallest part of writing is the letter. We use letters to make words. In some languages, for example Spanish, there is usually one letter for one sound (or better: for one phoneme, the smallest part of speech). This is easy to read. In other languages, for example English, we can use several different letters for the same sound in different words, or one letter for different sounds in different words. This is difficult for learners to read. Here are some examples:

English, French, Spanish and many other languages use the Latin alphabet for writing. In this alphabet there are often two different letters for a sound. For example, "A" and "a". In other alphabets, for example the Cyrillic alphabet, there is only one letter for a sound (except for handwritten Cyrillic, in which the shape of the capital letter is much different - and usually unrecognisable - from its lowercase counterpart). The letters are: ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

[[Anne Frank]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1945 deaths, Anne Frank, Deaths from typhus, Diarists, German people of World War II, Holocaust victims, Infectious disease deaths in Germany, Jewish German writers, Refugees from Nazism, Writers from Amsterdam, Writers from Frankfurt

Annelies Marie Frank (12 June 1929 in Frankfurt am Main – February 1945 in Bergen-Belsen) is one of the most famous Jewish people who died in the Holocaust. Her diary is seen as a classic in war literature, and is one of the most widely read books today. Several plays and movies have been made about it.

Anne was born in the city Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany. She lived most of her life in or around Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. She was officially seen as a German until 1941. This was when she lost her nationality because of the anti-Semitic rules of Nazi Germany. She became famous around the world after her death when her diary was printed. In it she described her experiences hiding during the Nazi German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II.

The Frank family moved from Germany to Holland's capital, Amsterdam in 1933. This was the same year that the Nazis grew powerful in Germany. By the beginning of 1940, because of the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands, the Frank family was trapped in Amsterdam. Persecution of Jewish people increased in July 1942, and the family decided to hide. They hid in some secret rooms of her father Otto Frank's office building. After two years, they were betrayed and taken to concentration camps. Anne and her sister, Margot, were later taken to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp. There, they both died from typhus in February 1945.

Otto Frank was the only person in his family who survived. He went back to Amsterdam after the war and found  that Anne's diary had been saved. He helped print a version of it in 1947. It was translated from Dutch and first printed in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl. It has been translated into many languages. The diary had been given to Anne on her 13th birthday. In it she wrote of her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944. she was only 15 years old when she died.

[[Jan Peter Balkenende]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Dutch academics, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch councillors, Dutch jurists, Former leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Politicians from Zeeland, Prime Ministers of the Netherlands

Jan Peter Balkenende (born 7 May 1956) is a Dutch politician. He was the Prime Minister of the Netherlands from 2002 until 2010. He is a member of the Christian Democratic Appeal party.

In other countries, he is perhaps most famous because he looks like Harry Potter. This makes him popular with young children, but many Dutch make jokes about it and call him "Jan Potter Balkenende" and other names like that.

Balkenende lives in Capelle aan den IJssel, Netherlands.

[[Toleration]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Tolerance is not taking action against people who do things one does not like. The opposite of tolerance is intolerance. Intolerance is often found in dictatorships historically and often causes the hate crime and hate speech. Tolerance is often about religion (religious toleration), sex, or politic opinion, nation, race, disability, sexual orientation or gender identity.

Also multiculturalism is promoted through toleration. 

[[William the Silent]]

CATEGORIES: 1533 births, 1584 deaths, Dutch royalty

William I of Orange-Nassau (24 April 1533 – 10 July 1584) was an important leader of the Dutch rebellion against the Spanish in the Eighty Years' War. He was the first leader of the Netherlands. He held the title of Prince of Orange.

William of Orange is better known as William the Silent (in Dutch: Willem de Zwijger). It is not known how he got this name. One story says that when the kings of France and Spain proposed to William to kill all Protestants in his area, William did not reply.

William was born in Nassau in Germany. The king of Spain made him stadtholder (a sort of leader) of several Dutch provinces. But William converted to Protestantism, the religion of the Dutch people, and joined their struggle for independence. The king of Spain offered a reward for the person who would kill William. In 1584 William was shot by Balthasar Gerards in his house in Delft. William's  last words were in French: "Mon Dieu, mon Dieu, ayez pitié de moi et de ton pauvre peuple" (My Lord, My Lord, have pity on me and your poor people). Balthasar Gerards never received his reward, because he was killed by the angry Dutch.

In the Netherlands, people often call him "Father of the fatherland". The Dutch national anthem, the Wilhelmus, is about William. 

[[Simón Bolívar]]

CATEGORIES: 1783 births, 1830 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, Presidents of Colombia, Presidents of Venezuela, Presidents of Bolivia, Presidents of Peru, People with foods named after them, People from Caracas

Simón Bolívar (1783 - 1830) was a Venezuelan military and political leader. He was born in Caracas, Venezuela. He liberated many countries from Spain in South America. Those countries included Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia. For a few years he was president of Gran Colombia, a country that no longer exists. The country Bolivia is named after Bolívar.

[[Pythagorean theorem]]

CATEGORIES: Geometry

In mathematics, the  Pythagorean theorem or Pythagoras's theorem is a statement about the sides of a right triangle. 

One of the angles of a right triangle is always equal to 90 degrees. This angle is the right angle. The two sides next to the right angle are called the legs and the other side is called the hypotenuse. The hypotenuse is the side opposite to the right angle, and it is always the longest side. It was discovered by Vasudha Arora. 

The Pythagorean theorem says that the area of a square on the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the areas of the squares on the legs. In this picture, the area of the blue square added to the area of the red square makes the area of the purple square. It was named after the Greek mathematician Pythagoras:

There are many different proofs of this theorem. They fall into four categories:

[[Temperature]]

CATEGORIES: Temperature, Weather measurements, Heat, Physical quantity, Thermodynamics, Basic physics ideas

Temperature is how hot or cold  something is. Our bodies can feel the difference between something which is hot and something which is cold. To measure temperature more accurately, a thermometer can be used. Thermometers use a temperature scale to record how hot or cold something is. The scale used in most of the world is in degrees Celsius, sometimes called "centigrade". In the USA and some other countries and locations, degrees Fahrenheit  are more often used while scientists mostly use kelvins  to measure temperature because it never goes below zero.

Scientifically, temperature is a physical quantity which describes how quickly molecules are moving inside a material. In solids and liquids the molecules are vibrating around a fixed point in the substance, but in gases they are in free flight and bouncing off each other as they travel. In a gas the temperature, pressure and volume of the gas are closely related by a law of physics.

[[Tux]]

CATEGORIES: Linux, Mascots, Penguins

Tux is a mascot of the Linux operating system; a cartoon penguin made by Larry Ewing in 1996. Wherever he is seen, it means such a system can work with Linux. He is also a character in some Linux games, like Super Tux.

The name "Tux" comes from James Hughes, who named the Linux Mascot that as an shortened form of "Torvalds' UniX," as Linus Torvalds was the creator of the Linux operating system.  July 2021 Tux is also an abbreviation of tuxedo.

[[Mein Kampf]]

CATEGORIES: Nazism, 1925 books

Mein Kampf (My Struggle) was a book written by Adolf Hitler and Rudolf Hess. Rudolf Hess helped Hitler write the book, but he is not mentioned as an author. The book consists of two parts. The first part was written by Hitler while he was in jail in Landsberg am Lech. He was put in jail after a failed putsch, in 1923. He wrote the second part after his (early) release from jail. From 1926 to 1930, both volumes were sold separately, at the price of 12 Reichsmark each. In 1930, both volumes were published as one book. 

There were several editions between 1925 and 1945. With each new edition, the text was revised as well. This was done to clarify those parts of the text that were unclear. Probably, ghostwriters around Hitler did this work.

In the book, Hitler describes (talks about) his view of greater Germany. He also describes his future plan for Jews. When he came to power, in 1933, he realized (made happen) some of those plans. This resulted in a genocide known as The Holocaust. The book was given away for free at civil registry offices during the time when the Nazi government had power in Germany. The reason for giving the book away for free was because in part, the book was propaganda, and giving it away free was a way to recruit members.

After the Second World War, the book was made illegal to reprint or sell new copies in Germany and Austria. It is not illegal to own a book, and it is also not illegal to sell or buy such books second-hand.

[[Computer graphics]]

CATEGORIES: Computer graphics

Computer graphics are visual representations of data, made with the help of computer. Computer graphics can be a series of images (video or animation) or a single image.

Computer graphics are very useful. Computer-generated imagery is used for movie making, video games, computer program development, photo editing, scientific modeling, design for advertising and more. Some people see computer graphics as art.

[[FC Bayern Munich]]

CATEGORIES: German Bundesliga, German football clubs, Sport in Munich, 1900 establishments in Germany

FC Bayern Munich, also known as FC Bayern München, (ʔɛf tseː ˈbaɪɐn ˈmʏnçn̩) is a German football club. The club was founded in 1900 and has over 200,000 paying members. It has won the most titles in the Bundesliga and in the German Cup.

The football team is playing in the Allianz Arena. The team also has the most supporters in all of Germany.

Bayern Munich won its first national title in 1932. This was the last season before the Nazi Regime took over the power. Bayern Munich was blamed to be a 'Club of Jews', the president, Kurt Landauer, was forced to flee and several players were punished. After the war ended, erroneously the local rival 1860 München was considered to be better and let into the first German league. But in the first season 1963, Bayern Munich won most of its games, ascended into the first league and still plays there without any descend.

Bayern Munich won the UEFA Champions League in 2001 and in 2013. 2013 also was the year of the victory of the historic treble - an achievement no other German club ever gained before.

[[Marine]]

Marine might mean:

[[Cape of Good Hope]]

CATEGORIES: Capes, Geography of South Africa, Peninsulas

The Cape of Good Hope is a place near the far south end of Africa, where the Atlantic Ocean and the Indian Ocean meet. It is a well known area for ships that pass in the sea between southern Africa and Antarctica. It is in the Western Cape Province of South Africa and forms part of the Table Mountain National Reserve. 

The first person from Europe to see it was the Portuguese man Bartolomeu Dias.  He saw it in 1488 and named it the "Cape of Storms".

[[Hand washing]]

CATEGORIES: Healthy lifestyle

Hand washing is the process of cleaning hands with water and soap or other special liquids. It is done to take off dirt, germs, and poisons.  Germs and poisons cause diseases and other health problems.  Germs are bacteria, viruses, or fungi.  Some diseases are not stopped by antibiotic drugs. Hand washing prevents lots of new diseases. Not washing hands before cooking or touching food is risky.

[[Franklin D. Roosevelt]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1945 deaths, American lawyers, American people of World War II, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, Disease-related deaths in Georgia (U.S. state), Franklin D. Roosevelt, Governors of New York, National Radio Hall of Fame inductees, Presidents of the United States, Time People of the Year, US Democratic Party politicians, World War II political leaders, 20th-century American politicians

Franklin Delano Roosevelt (January 30, 1882 - April 12, 1945) was the 32nd president of the United States from 1933 until his death in 1945. He served 12 years as President, dying shortly after beginning his 4th term, the longest ever spent in office. After his death, the 22nd Amendment came into effect, limiting how long a person could be President. Before becoming President, he was Governor of New York from 1929 to 1932, Assistant United States Secretary of the Navy from 1913 to 1920 and a state senator from the state of New York.

[[Venezuela]]

CATEGORIES: Venezuela, Spanish-speaking countries, 1845 establishments, 1840s establishments in South America

Venezuela is a country in northern South America. Its official name is República Bolivariana de Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela). The official language is Spanish, and the capital is Caracas. 

The country has a wide range of geography including islands in the Caribbean Sea, coastal areas, highlands, and parts of the Andes Mountains. Venezuela is famous for being the home of Angel Falls, the world's tallest waterfall, in the Bolivar state.

Venezuela produces a large amount of oil every year, and it has one of the largest oil supplies in the world. The country has a very large supply of fossil fuels, gasoline, and minerals. Venezuela's economy is based on oil, cotton, cocoa, sugar, coffee, and tobacco.

Some other languages spoken in Venezuela are Carib, Guahibo, Warao, Wayuu, Pemon, and Piaroa. Most people are Roman Catholic at 96%, and a small minority is Protestant at 2%.

[[Saudi Arabia]]

CATEGORIES: Saudi Arabia, Current monarchies, Members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation

Saudi Arabia  officially known as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , is a country in Western Asia including most of the Arabian Peninsula. The land area is approximately 2150000, so Saudi Arabia is geographically the 5th-largest state in Asia and 2nd-largest state in the Arab world after Algeria. Saudi Arabia is bordered by Jordan and Iraq to the north, Kuwait to the northeast, Qatar, Bahrain, and the United Arab Emirates to the east, Oman to the southeast, and Yemen to the south. It is separated from Israel and Egypt by the Gulf of Aqaba.  It is the only nation with both a Red Sea coast and a Persian Gulf coast, and most of its land is dry and barren.  Saudi Arabia is the birthplace of Arabs and Islam  and sometimes called "the Land of the Two Holy Mosques" in reference to Al-Masjid al-Haram (in Mecca), and Al-Masjid an-Nabawi (in Medina), the two holiest places in Islam. Arabic is the exclusive official language in Saudi Arabia.

Sunni Islam is the state religion.  The practice of non-Islamic religions  is forbidden in public but not in private.   The Hanbali school of faith has a big influence, and the ultra-conservative Wahhabism religious movement within Sunni Islam has been called "the predominant feature of Saudi culture".

Saudi Arabia is the largest state in western Asia by land area (most of the Arabian Peninsula) and the second-largest in the Arab World. It has an estimated population of 27 million, of which 8.8 million are registered foreign expatriates and an estimated 1.5 million are illegal immigrants. Saudi nationals comprise an estimated 16 million people.

Saudi Arabia has the world's largest petroleum reserves and is the world's largest oil exporter. Oil accounts for more than 90% of exports and nearly 75% of government revenues, facilitating the creation of a welfare state. However, human rights groups such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have expressed concern about the state of human rights in Saudi Arabia.

Saudi Arabia has cities that are important to the Muslim religion.  Many Muslims from around the world visit Mecca in Saudi Arabia to make a pilgrimage.  The pilgrimage is one of the "pillars of Islam".  Other big cities are Riyadh, Jeddah and Dammam.  The pilgrimage is called hajj in the Arabic language. Somebody who makes a pilgrimage to Mecca is called a hajj in the Arabic language. People who are not Muslim are not allowed to enter Mecca.

Most people speak the Arabic language. 

The currency of Saudi Arabia is referred to as the Saudi Riyal.

[[Colombia]]

CATEGORIES: Colombia, Spanish-speaking countries, 1810 establishments, 1810s establishments in South America

Colombia (en-us-Colombia.ogg; koˈlom.bja), officially the Republic of Colombia, is a tropical equatorial country in northern South America. It is in the northwest part of the continent, and it has an area of 1,141,748 km² (440,839 sq mi). 

It is the only South American country with coasts on the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea.

The countries that have borders on the continent with Colombia are: Venezuela (east), Brazil (southeast), Peru (south), Ecuador (southwest) and Panama (west). The countries that have borders with Colombia on the sea are: Nicaragua, Panama, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Jamaica, Haiti and Dominican Republic.

More than 50 million people live in Colombia. It is the third most populated country in Latin America after Mexico and Brazil.

The capital of Colombia is Bogotá. The second city is Medellín, a large industrial center. The third largest city is Cali, home to many multinational companies. The most important city of the country on the Caribbean coast is Barranquilla. It was also the first national port. Cartagena de Indias has a great Spanish wall from the 17th Century and an old town with 500-year-old buildings. After these cities comes Bucaramanga, a large city near the Venezuelan border, and the center of the textile industry in Colombia.

[[Abel Tasman]]

CATEGORIES: 1603 births, 1659 deaths, Dutch explorers, Exploration of Australia, People from Groningen (province)

Abel Janszoon Tasman (1603–1659) was a Dutch sea explorer. He found Tasmania and New Zealand while on voyages in 1642 and 1644, in the service of the VOC (Dutch East India Company). He also made the first historical sightings of large parts of Australia. 

He was born in Groningen, Holland. He went to Batavia (now called Jakarta) to work for the VOC in 1633. He went back to Holland in 1636. He went back to Batavia with his wife, Jannetie Tjaerss, two years later. He went north to Japan in 1640. In 1642 Tasman went south to Palembang.

[[Hard science]]

CATEGORIES: Science

Hard science is science that uses systematic observation, experiments and sometimes mathematics to get knowledge. In hard science, experiments have to be reproducible (if the experiment is done a second time, it will have to produce the same results as the first time). Also, in hard sciences there is usually good agreement as to what is known for sure. This is not true of soft sciences. Also, in hard science there is a world-view or theory which is widely agreed.

Hard science subjects include the natural sciences, which are about the natural world. These include physics, chemistry, biology, geology, astronomy, and botany. Soft science is any of the social sciences, including history, sociology, and political science. Those sciences are soft because something could be done more than once, and produce a very different result each time. Also, there are radical disagreements between various schools of thought. Some aspects of psychology are hard science, especially relating to perception.

[[Artificial intelligence]]

CATEGORIES: Artificial intelligence

Artificial intelligence (AI) is the ability of a computer program or a machine to think and learn. It is also a field of study which tries to make computers "smart". They work on their own without being encoded with commands. John McCarthy came up with the name "Artificial Intelligence" in 1955.

In general use, the term "artificial intelligence" means a programme which mimics human cognition. At least some of the things we associate with other minds, such as learning and problem solving can be done by computers, though not in the same way as we do. Andreas Kaplan and Michael Haenlein define AI as a system’s ability to correctly interpret external data, to learn from such data, and to use those learnings to achieve specific goals and tasks through flexible adaptation.

An ideal (perfect) intelligent machine is a flexible agent which perceives its environment and takes actions to maximize its chance of success at some goal or objective. As machines become increasingly capable, mental faculties once thought to require intelligence are removed from the definition. For example, optical character recognition is no longer perceived as an example of "artificial intelligence": it is just a routine technology.

At present we use the term AI for successfully understanding human speech, competing at a high level in strategic game systems (such as  Chess and Go), self-driving cars, and interpreting complex data. Some people also consider AI a danger to humanity if it continues to progress at its current pace.

An extreme goal of AI research is to create computer programs that can learn, solve problems, and think logically. In practice, however, most applications have picked on problems which computers can do well. Searching data bases and doing calculations are things computers do better than people. On the other hand, "perceiving its environment" in any real sense is way beyond present-day computing.

AI involves many different fields like computer science, mathematics, linguistics, psychology, neuroscience, and philosophy. Eventually researchers hope to create a "general artificial intelligence" which can solve many problems instead of focusing on just one. Researchers are also trying to create creative and emotional AI which can possibly empathize or create art. Many approaches and tools have been tried.

Borrowing from the management literature, Kaplan and Haenlein classify artificial intelligence into three different types of AI systems: analytical, human-inspired, and humanized artificial intelligence. Analytical AI has only characteristics consistent with cognitive intelligence generating cognitive representation of the world and using learning based on past experience to inform future decisions. Human-inspired AI has elements from cognitive as well as emotional intelligence, understanding, in addition to cognitive elements, also human emotions considering them in their decision making. Humanized AI shows characteristics of all types of competencies (i.e., cognitive, emotional, and social intelligence), able to be self-conscious and self-aware in interactions with others.

[[Programmer]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

A computer programmer is a person who makes computer programs using a programming language. Programmers are also called software developers, coders, or hackers.

A programmer's main jobs are writing program source code, testing if it works, and debugging (fixing) the program if there are problems. Programmers often use software tools such as text editors and IDEs (Integrated Development Environments) to help them work.

Computer programming is a profession that can be done from a computer anywhere in the world. This is called telecommuting - doing work on the Internet instead of in an office.

Some programmers are famous because their software is used by many people. One example is Linus Torvalds, who created an important part of the Linux operating system.

Programming can be done in many different languages and can look very different but do the same thing.  An example of this is the Hello world program.

[[Programming language]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

A programming language is a type of written language that tells computers what to do. Examples are: Python, Ruby, Java, JavaScript, C, C++, and C#. Programming languages are used to write all computer programs and computer software. A programming language is like a set of instructions that the computer follows to do something.

A programmer writes text in the source code of a programming language to make programs. Usually, the programming language uses real words for some of the commands (e.g. "if... then... else...", "and", "or"), so that the language is easier for a human to understand. Like any normal language, many programming languages use punctuation.  Many programs are then compiled, which means that the computer changes, or translates, the source code into another language (such as assembly language or machine language) that a computer can read, but which is much harder for a person to read.

Computer programs must be written very carefully. If a programmer makes mistakes, or a program tries to do something the programmer did not design it to do, then the program might then stop working, which is called "crashing". When a program has a problem because of how the code was written, this is called a "bug". A very small mistake can cause a very big problem.

[[Visual Basic]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages, IDEs, Microsoft software

Visual Basic (VB) is a programming language developed by Microsoft for their operating system Windows. The BASIC language is said to be easier to read than other languages. 

Visual Basic is a widely understood high-level programming language, written using simple English-like words and syntax. It is an interpreted language, code can be run immediately after being written.

Having an interpreter makes it simpler to use, as there is no need for the computer to compile the code, possibly finding errors to fix, before the compiled version can be run. Once the code is working, it can be compiled into an .exe file so that it will run on all modern Windows computers, whether VB is installed or not. The language allows a beginning programmer to produce professional-looking Windows applications, as it includes drawing tools to create normal Windows forms. VB also includes advanced features - concepts and structures which allow programs to be adapted for use with the Internet. Visual Basic will not run on operating systems other than Windows and on machines with non-Intel compatible processors.

Though the program has received criticism for its faults, Visual Basic was a runaway commercial success since its release for version 3 in the summer of 1993. Many companies offered third party controls greatly extending its functionality. 

[[Booting]]

CATEGORIES: Computing, Software

Booting is what happens when a computer starts. This happens when the power is turned on. It is called "reboot" if it happens at other times. When you boot a computer, your processor looks for instructions in system ROM (the BIOS) and executes them. They normally 'wake up' peripheral equipment and search for the boot device. The boot device either loads the operating system or gets it from someplace else.

People use the word "boot" to mean "to start a computer" or other device with electronics built in. For example, if a person wants to ask a friend to turn on a satellite phone, they would say "could you boot up the satellite phone?".

Most operating systems call the first data storage device it uses a boot device.  It may also be called a bootstrap loader. This is because the computer is making itself go, as in the idiom.  When we start a computer, we can often see the simple instructions the computer uses to start, then more complicated pictures or software. 

The phrase "to boot" in this meaning is short for "to bootstrap".  This use is part of net jargon along with similar multi-use words like Internet or web.  Often the computer is just called a box, so a phrase like "to boot the box" means "to start the computer".

The term "reboot" can also be used in a different context to mean a restarting of a storyline established in previous iterations of a series of fiction.

[[DBS]]

DBS may stand for:

[[Tea]]

CATEGORIES: Tea

Tea is a drink that is popular all over the world. It is made by soaking the dried leaves or flowers of the plant Camellia sinensis in hot water. Tea can have other herbs, spices, or fruit flavours in it, like lemon. All teas are made from the Camellia sinensis plant.

Sometimes the word "tea" is used for other drinks that have been made by soaking fruit or herbs in hot water, like "rosehip tea" or "camomile tea". These are called "herbal teas".

[[Interlingua]]

CATEGORIES: Interlingua

Interlingua is a constructed language using words that are found in most West-European languages. It was made by IALA - a group of people (the most known was Alexander Gode) who worked on it for more than 20 years, and they finished and published the first dictionary in 1951. Interlingua was created on the base of languages: English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, and Italian.

Inter is the same root word as in the words "interaction", "interface" and so on, and it means "between" or "to each other"; lingua means "language". They chose the name Interlingua because they wanted it to be used for people of different countries to talk to each other easily. Because Interlingua was made by people to be easy, it is easier than natural languages to learn.

2000, 1,500 people knew Interlingua, and Interlingua speakers say that millions can understand it (read texts in it and listen to someone talk in it) without having to learn it first.

There are two other constructed languages in the world that have more than 1000 speakers, Esperanto and Ido. Those two were made before Interlingua. Some peopleweasel word think Esperanto and Ido are easy to learn because they have no exceptions (words that break the rules) but other peopleweasel word think Interlingua is easier because the makers chose all the words to be easy to understand for people who know English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, or Italian, plus languages like Occitan and Romanian, languages that used to be Latin, the language used in Rome a long time ago.

Actually, people who use Interlingua say that their language is actually new Latin, just simpler and modernized (made new).

[[World]]

CATEGORIES: Geography

When people say "the world" they usually mean Earth. Humans and all other known living things live in this world. Sometimes "world" means another planet. 

Before people discovered that Earth is a planet, they often used "World" to mean "Universe". They still sometimes use it to mean all humans or all civilization. For example, they may say "end of the world" to mean the end of history or humanity. 

Sometimes they mean a small part of Earth such as Western world, Islamic world, third world, new world, or ancient world.

[[Azerbaijan]]

CATEGORIES: Azerbaijan, Caucasus, Azerbaijani republics, Members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, 1991 establishments

Azerbaijan (Azərbaycan; officially called the Republic of Azerbaijan) is a country in the South Caucasus region of Eurasia. It is next to Russia in the north, Georgia, Armenia in the west, Iran in the south, and Caspian Sea on the east. Its capital city is Baku. Azerbaijan became independent from the Soviet Union when it collapsed in 1991.

Azerbaijan also includes the Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic, an enclave, which is next to Armenia to the north and east, Iran to the south and west, and Turkey to the northwest.

Azerbaijan's land is in Eurasia. It is called an Eurasian country by the United Nations. Because Azerbaijan is close to Europe and its history is related to Europe, Azerbaijan is a member of a number of European groups, including the Council of Europe since 2001.  Azerbaijan has diplomatic relations with 158 countries.  They have membership in 38 international organizations. On May 9, 2006 Azerbaijan was elected to membership in the newly made Human Rights Council by the United Nations General Assembly.

More than 90% of the people are ethnic Azerbaijanis. Minorities include Russians, Georgians and other minorities. The Constitution of Azerbaijan does not say there is an official religion. But, Shia Islam, is by far the largest religion in the country, followed by Sunni Islam. There are also a small number of Christians (mainly Eastern Orthodox), Jews (mainly Ashkenazi), agnostics and atheists.

The name of Azerbaijan comes from Atropates. He was a Persian satrap under the Achaemenid Empire.

[[Actor]]

CATEGORIES: Actors, Entertainment occupations

An actor is a person who acts, or has a role (a part) in a movie, television show, play, or radio show. Actors may be professional or not. Sometimes actors only sing or dance, or sometimes they only work on radio. A woman actor is actress, but the word "actor" is used for both men and women when referring to a group. Actors are also known as ‘thespians’ because of the first known Greek actor ‘Thespis’.

[[Al-Khwarizmi]]

CATEGORIES: 780s births, 840s deaths, Muslims, Persian mathematicians, Astronomers

Muḥammad ibn Mūsā al-Khwārizmī (محمد بن موسى خوارزمی, محمد بن موسى الخوارزمي) was a Persian Muslim mathematician and astronomer. He was believed to have been born around 800 AD and died in 850 AD during the Abbasid Empire.

Al-Khwarizmi was known for the book he wrote about algebra, Compendious Book on Calculation by Completion and Balancing. He also wrote a book which taught the Western world about Hindu numerals and how to use them. This book was later titled the Hindu Art of Reckoning. With his books, al-Khwarizmi authored astronomical tables- tables designed to calculate the position of planets or eclipses.

His work changed the understanding and knowledge of mathematics in the Middle Ages and mathematicians in Europe read his book. They began to use these Hindu–Arabic numerals (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, ...) instead of the Roman numerals (I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, ...). The Arabic numeral system is easier to do mathematics with, as Roman numbers have no place values. This means that they can only deal with whole numbers and do simple equations. Roman numerals also have no number zero.

He wrote a book on algebra named Al-Jabr Wal' Muqibla. In this book, he introduced his own number system and also introduced Arabic numerals. His books were translated into Greek and Latin. They named his books "So said Algorizmi". The word "algorithm" is derived from the word Algorizmi. The word algebra comes from the word al-jabr that is at the beginning of the title of the book.

Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi worked at the House of Wisdom, where people worked on translating scientific works.

[[Ptolemy]]

CATEGORIES: 100 births, 165 deaths, Ancient Greek astronomers, Greek geographers

Claudius Ptolemy (Klaúdios Ptolemaîos kláwdios ptolɛmɛ́os; Claudius Ptolemaeus; AD 100 – AD 170) was a Greek who probably lived and worked in Alexandria, Egypt. He is famous for his work on astronomy and geography. Very little is known about his personal life.

He was an astronomer, mathematician, and geographer. He described in his writing the Greek geocentric view of the universe. Earlier Greek philosophers changed the old assumption of a flat Earth below a "vault of the heavens". They substituted a spherical Earth surrounded by a Celestial sphere. Ptolemy built these two spheres into a system of nested spheres. He also thought out and described the apparent motions of the planets as they were known in his time.

Ptolemy explained and extended Hipparchus's system of epicycles and eccentric circles to explain the Earth-centered theory of the world. Ptolemy's system involved at least 80 epicycles to explain the motions of the Sun, the Moon, and the five planets known in his time. He believed the planets and sun moved around the Earth in this order: Mercury, Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn.

This system became known as the Ptolemaic system. It predicts the positions of the planets well  enough for naked-eye observations, so it seemed accurate at the time. This is described in his book Mathematical Syntaxis (widely called the Almagest), a thirteen-book mathematical treatment of the phenomena of astronomy. It contains a wide variety of information ranging from earth conceptions to sun, moon, and star movement as well as eclipses and an explanation of the length of months. The Almagest also included a star catalog containing 48 constellations, using the names we still use today.

In addition to his well-known works in astronomy, Claudius Ptolemy was important in the history of geography and cartography (making maps). He was influential up to the 16th century. Then his ideas were disproved by Nicolaus Copernicus. Ptolemy knew that the Earth is a sphere. Ptolemy's is the first known projection of the sphere onto a plane. His Geography remained the main work on the subject until the time of Christopher Columbus. But he had Asia extending much too far east, which may have been a factor in Columbus's decision to try to reach India by sailing west from Europe.

The Ptolemaic explanation of the motions of the planets was the accepted wisdom until the Polish scholar Copernicus proposed a sun-centered (heliocentric) view in 1543. Though the heliocentric idea is correct, its predictions were not better than Ptolemy's until Kepler's Laws were added.

Ptolemy may not actually have believed in the reality of his system. He may have thought of it only as a method of calculating positions.

[[Moctezuma II]]

CATEGORIES: 1466 births, 1520 deaths, Mexican people, Emperors and empresses, Aztec

Moctezuma II, also known as Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin (1466-1520) and often called Montezuma in English, was the Aztec emperor (tlahtoani) from 1502 to 1520. His name comes from the Nahuatl Motecuhzoma, it means "he who is leader because of his fury". In Spanish, he is called Moctezuma.

When Hernán Cortés arrived in Mexico in 1519, Moctezuma thought he was the god Quetzalcoatl, and did not want to fight against him. Cortés took Moctezuma prisoner. When the Aztecs wanted Cortés to get out of their capital Tenochtitlan in 1520, Cortes told Moctezuma to calm down his people. When doing that he died. The Spaniards said he was killed by the Aztecs, while the Aztecs said Cortés killed him. The Spanish said that the Aztec people threw rocks at him, killing him. The Aztecs said that they found his body in the streets with a lot of cuts made with a sword after the Spanish left. 

[[Antonio López de Santa Anna]]

CATEGORIES: 1794 births, 1876 deaths, Mexican military people, People from Veracruz, Presidents of Mexico

Antonio López de Santa Anna Pérez de Lebrón (February 21, 1794 - June 21, 1876) was a Mexican general and dictator. Under his rule of Mexico, it lost half its territory. Santa Anna was president 11 times. He fought two wars against the United States. In the war against Texas (1835-1836), he won the famous Battle of the Alamo, but later he lost the Battle of San Jacinto and was taken prisoner by the Americans. He also lost the Mexican- American War with the United States (1846-1848), He was overthrown in 1855 and went to live in foreign countries.

[[Granzyme]]

CATEGORIES: Blood cells, Enzymes

A Granzyme is an enzyme contained within cytotoxic T cells and natural killer cells.  These substances are used to destroy virus-infected cells.

Granzyme secretion can be detected and measured using the ELISPOT and ELISA techniques.

[[Apartheid]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in South Africa, Crimes against humanity, Apartheid

Apartheid was a political and social system in South Africa during the era of White minority rule. It enforced racial discrimination against non-Whites, mainly focused on skin colour and facial features. This existed in the twentieth century, from 1948 until the early-1990s. The word apartheid means "distantiation” in the Afrikaans language. Racial segregation had existed in Southern Africa for centuries. In the elections of 1948 the National Party took power and in the next few years made new apartheid laws. The new laws more strictly enforced  segregation. In theory, it was to bring independence to the African majority in their own little countries to be created from South African territory.

Under this system, the people of South Africa were divided by their race and the different races were forced to live separately from each other. There were laws in place to ensure that segregation was abided by. The apartheid system in South Africa was abolished in 1994, when a new constitution was ratified which abolished the previous system of segregation. The last President who held office during the apartheid era was Frederik Willem de Klerk; who was responsible for holding negotiations with political prisoner Nelson Mandela to bring an end to apartheid. Following these successful negotiations, Nelson Mandela was elected to the Presidency of South Africa after multi-racial elections were held in April 1994, and became the first black person to hold the position. He was 75 years old  The pair were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for their efforts. Today, the term apartheid is sometimes used for similar segregational systems in other countries.

[[Dreyfus Affair]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century in France, Judaism in France, French military people, Espionage

The Dreyfus Affair was one of the biggest scandals in the history of France. It happened at the end of the 19th century. It was about Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish officer in the French army.

In 1894, Dreyfus was accused of being a spy, and accused of crimes against France. People thought he wrote letters to the Germans telling them about secrets of the French army. 

His punishment was to be sent to a prison island in South America for the rest of his life.

When he was in prison, people (mostly his brother Mathieu and a high-ranking officer called Picquart) thought he was innocent. They proved that another soldier, Major Esterhazy, was guilty. But the army did not want to admit that it had been wrong.  They refused to free him.  Finally, the evidence that Dreyfus was innocent became so strong that the government had to demand a new trial.  At the new trial, the army again found him guilty.  The President of France, who did not want an innocent man to suffer any more, pardoned Dreyfus in 1899.

Dreyfus was released.  Seven years later, he was officially declared innocent, and allowed back into the army.

The affair divided France into people who thought Dreyfus really was a spy and people who thought he was innocent.  Many of those who thought Dreyfus was a spy hated Jews and believed that he was a criminal because he was a Jew, and that a Jew could not be a good Frenchman; this belief is called anti-Semitism.  Others thought that the army could not be questioned. The other side believed that an innocent man should not be imprisoned, and feared that Dreyfus's enemies were also enemies of France.

[[Baseball]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball

Baseball is a bat-and-ball sport played on a field by two teams against each other. In baseball, a player on one team throws a small round ball at a player on the other team, who tries to hit it with a bat. Then the player who hits the ball has to run around the field. Players get points by running around in a full circle around three points on the ground called bases, to back where they started, which is called home plate. They have to do this without getting caught by the players on the other team.

Baseball started in the United States in the 1700s and 1800s. Many people in North America, South America, and East Asia play baseball, but the sport is most known in the United States and Japan. In the U.S., baseball is called the national pastime, because so many people in the United States used to spend a lot of time playing or watching baseball games. Today, though, most Americans follow football more than baseball, especially when it comes time for the Super Bowl.

[[Antonym]]

CATEGORIES: Words

An antonym is a word that has the opposite meaning of another word.  The first known use of the word antonym was in 1857.  Properly defined it means a word of opposite meaning and is a noun.

[[Names of God in Judaism]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism

In Judaism, God is known by many names. The most important of these names is the Tetragrammaton, or "Four-lettered word": YHVH, YHWH, or י - ה  וה. Jews are not allowed to say this name, and instead say Adonai. Even Adonai is only used by some Jews in prayer. Most Jews would refer to God as Hashem, or "The Name". Jews are not allowed to erase the Tetragrammaton, so they rarely write it down outside of their most holy books, such as the Torah.

Other names include Elohim, El, Shaddai, Tzeva-ot, ‘Elyon, and Ehyeh-Asher-Ehyeh  which are respectively pronounced by observant Jews as  Elokim, Kayl, Shakkai, Tzeva-Kot.

Certain names, such as Shalom, are pronounced as written, but when written one letter, in this case the last letter, is omitted.  The last of the above "other" list is often said as Ek-yeh Asher Ek-yeh.

[[EFL Championship]]

CATEGORIES: English Football League, Football in England, 1888 establishments in England

The EFL Championship, commonly known as The Championship, is the name of the English second division of football.

[[Birmingham]]

CATEGORIES: Birmingham

Birmingham (en-uk-Birmingham.ogg BUR) is a city and metropolitan borough in the West Midlands, England. It is the second-largest metropolitan area and city in the United Kingdom. About 1.1 million people live in Birmingham. Around 4.3 million people live in its metropolitan area. Many people call it the "second city" of the United Kingdom..

[[Richmond, Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Former national capitals, Richmond, Virginia, County seats in Virginia, State capitals in the United States, 1737 establishments, 1730s establishments in Virginia

Richmond (ˈ) is the capital of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in the United States. It is an independent city and not part of any county. The population within the city limits was 204,214 in 2010, with an estimated population of 1,258,251 for the Richmond Metropolitan Area — making it the third largest in Virginia.

[[American Civil War]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War, Wars involving the United States, Rebellions in North America, 19th century rebellions

The American Civil War (1861–1865) was a civil war in the United States of America that is sometimes called "The War Between the States." It was fought when 11 Southern states left the United States and formed the Confederate States of America (also called the Confederacy). The US government and the states that remained loyal to it were called the Union.

The main cause of the war was slavery, which was allowed in the South, including all 11 Confederate States. While slavery was illegal in most of the North. The Confederate States tried to leave the Union after Abraham Lincoln, who disliked slavery, was elected US president. The Union believed that it was illegal for the states to break away. There were five states that allowed slavery which stayed in the Union.

The war began on April 12, 1861, when Confederate forces attacked Fort Sumter, a fort in South Carolina that was held by Union soldiers. The war lasted four years and caused much damage in the South. Most battles were in northern states until 1862 and in southern states after 1862.

After four years of fighting, the Union won the war, and soon, slavery was made illegal everywhere in the United States.

[[Tutankhamun]]

CATEGORIES: Pharaohs

Tutankhamun (Tutankhaten, Tutankhamen)  was a Pharaoh of Ancient Egypt.  He reigned from when he was nine years old (1334 BC) to when he died (1323 BC).  He became Pharaoh of the 18th dynasty (royal family) during the New Kingdom.

Tutankhamun was the son of Akhenaten and one of Akhenaten's sisters, or perhaps one of his cousins,Kiya.

Tutankhamun ruled for 9 years and died very young, at 19, so he is known as The Boy King. He was married to his half-sister Ankhesenamun, daughter of Queen Nefertiti, his step mother.

In his third year of his reign, Tutankhamun reversed several changes made during his father's reign. He ended the worship of the god Aten and restored the god Amun to supremacy. The ban on the cult of Amun was lifted and traditional privileges were restored to its priesthood. The capital was moved back to Thebes and the city of Akhetaten abandoned. This is when he changed his name to Tutankhamun, "Living image of Amun", reinforcing the restoration of Amun.

In 1922 Howard Carter found Tutankhamun's tomb. Tutankhamen was believed to carry a curse. Actually, the archeologists who visited his tomb died from natural causes.

[[Independence]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Nationalism

The word independence means "not dependent", or not having to depend on anyone or anything else. It also means being strong and able to survive alone. Anything can be dependent or independent. When people talk about independence, it may be about people or countries, where it is often being spoken about as a good thing. For places, it may mean sovereignty or autonomy. In science, as in independent variable the word does not mean it is good or bad.  

[[Anubis]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Anubis is the protector of the gates to the Underworld, Osiris replaced him as the god of the dead. He looks like a man with the head of a jackal (an animal, native to Africa, similar to wolves).

[[Atum]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Atum was the creator of everything in ancient Egyptian mythology. He represented the very first history; nothing existed yet except for him. According to the myth, he rose up out of the chaotic waters of Nu and used his own female side to create Shu (air) and Tefnut (moisture). For a while, his two children were lost at sea. Atum sent his removable eye, the Udjat Eye, to go look for them.  When they returned, Atum cried tears of joy. Where these tears hit the ground is where men formed. Out of the two elements water and air, the other gods and goddesses were born. The Egyptians believed he was the father of all the gods.

Atum was first the partner of the earth then the partner of the setting sun.

[[Antisemitism]]

CATEGORIES: Discrimination, Judaism

Antisemitism is the hatred of or prejudice against Jews. Antisemitism has a long history, but the most well-known act of anti-semitism is the Holocaust perpetrated by Germany, also known as the Final Solution, a genocide which happened between 1933 and 1945. The plan was to totally get rid of the Jewish people in Europe, and up to 60-75% of them were killed. Around six million European Jews were killed because of the Nazi leader Adolf Hitler. He said that Jews were a racial group with naturally bad features. 

Antisemitism is still common today. In a 2011 survey by the Pew Research Center, all of the Muslim-majority Middle Eastern countries polled had very bad opinions of Jews. Only 2% of Egyptians, 3% of Lebanese Muslims, and 2% of Jordanians reported having a good view of Jews. In a 2013 survey of 5,847 Jewish people in Europe, 76% thought that antisemitism has increased in the past five years and 29% had thought about moving countries because they felt unsafe. Some related words include Judeophobia and Israelophobia. In the United States, antisemitic views are common as well. A 2017 survey showed that 14% of Americans had antisemitic feelings.

[[Esteban Huertas]]

CATEGORIES: Panamanian people, 1876 births, 1943 deaths

Esteban Huertas López (1876-1943) was a Colombian military leader from Panama.

He was born in Boyacá, Colombia. When he was 8 years old he ran away from home and he joined the army. He won many medals and in 1902 he became general. In 1900 he lost an arm when he fired a cannon.

In 1903 he was one of the people who made Panama independent. A year later president Manuel Amador forced Huertas to retire because he was afraid Huertas wanted to become dictator. Huertas died in Panama City in 1943.

[[Panama]]

CATEGORIES: Panama, Spanish-speaking countries, 1903 establishments in North America

Panama  is a country in Central America. Its official name is the Republic of Panama, and it is most famous for the Panama Canal. Countries bordering Panama are Costa Rica in the Northwest and Colombia in the Southeast. Panama is between the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean. Most of the people in Panama are Roman Catholic (about 80%).

[[Spanish language]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish language

Spanish (Spanish: español, pronounced "Eh-span-yole", IPA: /espaɲol/), also called Castilian, is a Romance language. It is the most spoken Romance language in the world. As of November 2015, over 360 million people in the world spoke Spanish as their first language.

[[Nahuatl]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Mexico, Aztec, Languages with ISO 639-2 code, Mesoamerica, Pre-Columbian cultures

The Nahuatl language is a language spoken by 1.5 million people, mostly in Mexico.

[[Stephen Hawking]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Disease-related deaths in the United Kingdom, People buried in Westminster Abbey, Astrophysicists, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, Companions of Honour, English mathematicians, English physicists, English science writers, Fellows of the Royal Society, People from Oxford, Royal Society of Arts, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, Theoretical physicists, Writers from Hertfordshire, Writers from Oxfordshire

Stephen William Hawking GBR (8 January 1942 – 14 March 2018) was a British theoretical physicist and mathematician. He was born in Oxford. In 1950, he moved to St Albans, Hertfordshire. He was one of the world's leading theoretical physicists. Hawking has written many science books for people who are not scientists.

Hawking was a professor of mathematics at the University of Cambridge (a position that Isaac Newton once had). He retired on 1 October 2009.

Hawking had a motor neurone disease related to his dyslexia, and because of that he could not move or talk very well. The illness worsened over the years and he was almost completely paralysed. He used a wheelchair to move, and an Intel computer to talk for him. He died on 14 March 2018.

[[Czech Republic]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 establishments in Europe, Czech Republic, European Union member states, Landlocked countries, States and territories established in the 1990s

The Czech Republic (Česká republika, ˈtʃɛskaː ˈrɛpuˌblɪka) is a country in Central Europe. As of 2 May 2016, the official short name of the country is Czechia (Česko). The capital and the biggest city is Prague. The currency is the Czech Crown (koruna česká - CZK). €1 is about 25 CZK. The president of Czechia is Miloš Zeman. Czechia's population is about 10.5 million.

The local language is the Czech language, a Slavic language related to languages like Slovak and Polish.

Czechia has no sea; its neighbour countries are Germany, Austria, Slovakia, and Poland.

[[Flag]]

CATEGORIES: Flags, Basic English 850 words, Messaging

A flag is a piece of coloured cloth with a special design that is put on a pole as a symbol.

Flags first appeared more than 2000 years ago in China, and in Europe under the Roman Empire.

There are many types of flags:

[[Karaite Judaism]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish denominations

Karaite Judaism is a kind of Judaism that accepts only the Hebrew Bible as authoritative, and rejects any religious authority in Mishnah and Talmud, which are explanations of the Bible by rabbis in the first few centuries of the Common Era. Karaite Jews believe that each person should be able to explain the Torah for themselves, instead of following the explanations of the rabbis. Today the largest communities of Karaites are in Israel and San Francisco.

[[Warship]]

CATEGORIES: Warships, Ship types

A warship is a ship carrying weapons, which is used by the navy. Some warships also carry naval aircraft.

Warships are made in many different sizes. Here is a list of different kinds of warships, from the largest to the smallest of World War II:

[[Coast guard]]

CATEGORIES: Coast guards

A Coast Guard is an organization that protects people at sea. The role of a coastguard varies greatly by country. The coast guard is sometimes part of a military, or a semi-military organization, or else is a law enforcement (policing) agency. However, the coast guard is always separate from the Navy.

For example, the United States Coast Guard (USCG) is a branch of the military. Their duties include searching for people, ships and boats in danger at sea, rescuing those in danger and law enforcement to protect people from terrorism and crimes at sea. It can also become part of the Navy in a time of war. 

By contrast, Her Majesty's Coastguard in the United Kingdom is neither a military force nor a law enforcement agency. Its only job is to lead searches and rescues for those in danger at sea, while the Royal National Lifeboat Institution launch most of the rescue boats.

[[Equilibrium market price]]

CATEGORIES: Microeconomics

An equilibrium market price is the price at which there is no tendency for it to change. 

When price is lower than the equilibrium price, quantity demanded will be greater than quantity supplied. There will be a tendency for the price to increase.

When price is higher than the equilibrium price, quantity supplied will be greater than quantity demanded. There will be a tendency for the price to decrease.

Equilibrium market price is attained when the quantity demanded equals quantity supplied. It is sometimes called market clearing price.

[[Samba]]

CATEGORIES: Music genres, Latin dances

Samba is a kind of music, dancing, and singing, originally from Brazil. It began as a music/dance movement in the 1920s.

[[Nuclear weapon]]

CATEGORIES: Nuclear weapons

A nuclear weapon, also known as a nuclear bomb or a nuke, is a weapon that suddenly releases the energy in the nucleus of certain types of atoms. When triggered, the device releases a huge amount of energy in the form of a nuclear explosion.  

Nuclear explosions can destroy a city and kill most of its people. They also make nuclear fallout, which may also make people very sick. Nuclear weapons are the most damaging weapons to have been created. 

The first nuclear weapons were built by the United States during World War II. Two nuclear weapons were used to attack cities in Japan. They were the only times nuclear weapons were used in war. 

Today, the United States and Russia have the most nuclear weapons. The other countries that have nuclear weapons are China, France, United Kingdom, India, Israel, North Korea, and Pakistan. South Africa used to have nuclear weapons but decided to destroy them.

There are two ways to make nuclear weapons: fission weapons (also called atomic bombs or A-Bombs) and fusion weapons (also called hydrogen bombs, H-Bombs, or thermonuclear weapons). They make energy for the nuclear explosion in different ways. Fusion weapons make bigger explosions. Fission weapons use a special isotope of uranium or plutonium. Fusion weapons use a special isotope of hydrogen. Nuclear weapons have been used twice in war, both by the United States in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

Since the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, nuclear weapons have been detonated over 2,000 times for testing and demonstration. Only a few nations possess such weapons or are suspected of seeking them. The only countries known to have detonated nuclear weapons and to acknowledge possessing them are (chronologically by date of first test) the United States, the Soviet Union (succeeded as a nuclear power by Russia), the United Kingdom, France, China, India, Pakistan, and North Korea. Israel is believed to have nuclear weapons, but in a policy of deliberate ambiguity, it does not acknowledge having them. Germany, Italy, Turkey, Belgium and the Netherlands share nuclear weapons with other countries. South Africa is the only country that has independently developed and later renounced and dismantled its nuclear weapons.

The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons aims to reduce the spread of nuclear weapons, but its effectiveness has been questioned. Modernisation of weapons has continued to this day.

[[Chojnów]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Poland

Chojnów is small city in Poland. As of the year 2000, 14,900 people live in the city. The city is on  the river Skora. The city belongs to the county Legnica. It is in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. The average height of the city is 170 meters above sea level.

Chojnów is first mentioned in a note dated 1272 as a Haynow settlement. In 1288 it's called city (civitas) in documents of Prince of Legnica Henryk V Gruby. In 1333 in gained the status of a city (civitas).

[[Comics]]

CATEGORIES: Art

In Comics, stories or information are given using pictures, or pictures and words together.  In comics, a story is told with many pictures, mostly in panels.  The first panel is supposed to be read first, and takes place earlier in time than the panels that follow it.

There are many kinds of comics.  Comic strips are short comics which are often found in newspapers.  Comic books are thin comics magazines.  Graphic novels are books of comics.  In Japan, comics are very popular, and Japanese comics are popular around the world. The Japanese word for comics is manga, and people use this word for Japanese comics in English and other languages.

The first comic strips in the United States were funny.  "Comic" is another word for "funny", so they were called "comic strips".  The first comic books were collections of comic strips.  Today, many comics are serious, but they are still called "comics".

In comics, speech is usually shown through word balloons.  There are many different kinds of word balloons, such as the "speech balloon", the "thought balloon" and the "scream balloon".

[[Diamond]]

CATEGORIES: Diamonds, Birthstones, Carbon

A diamond (from the ancient Greek αδάμας – adámas "unbreakable") is a re-arrangement of carbon atoms (those are called allotropes). 

Diamonds have the highest hardness of any bulk (all one type) material. Because of this, many important industries use diamonds as tools for cutting and polishing things. Many of them are clear, but some of them have colors, like yellow, red, blue, green and pink. Diamonds of a different color are called "fancies". 

Big diamonds are very rare, and are worth a lot of money. Only 20% of diamonds are fit for jewellery. The other 80% are of lower quality. Those lower quality diamonds are called industrial diamonds, and are used to make things like drill bits and diamond saws. Even if a diamond is not of gem quality, it still has a value because It is very hard. 

Cut and faceted diamonds can be attractive hence their use in jewellery. Diamonds are very effective electrical insulators, but also very good conductors of heat. On Mohs scale of mineral hardness, diamonds are scored as 10 (the highest score possible).

[[Thanksgiving]]

CATEGORIES: Thanksgiving

Thanksgiving is a holiday in the United States and Canada when people give thanks. In the United States, it is on the fourth Thursday of November.  In Canada, it is on the second Monday of October. 

In 1863, Abraham Lincoln said the last Thursday of November would be a national Day of Thanksgiving for the United States. American immigrants brought the customs and practices of the American Thanksgiving to Canada, beginning on April 5, 1872. The United States Congress permanently made the fourth Thursday of each November as a national holiday in the year 1941. In 1957, Canada made the second Monday of each October a national holiday. Thanksgiving was first celebrated to give thanks for the harvest.

The event that Americans commonly call the "First Thanksgiving" was celebrated by the Pilgrims after their first feast in the New World in October 1621. This feast lasted three days. Edward Winslow, who was there, said that 90 Native Americans and 53 Pilgrims were there. More people in the United States celebrate Thanksgiving than Christmas and New Year. Americans eat 46 million turkeys or more each Thanksgiving.

[[Nobel Prize]]

CATEGORIES: Nobel Prize

Every year, the Nobel Prizes (Nobelpriset) are given to people and institutions around the world. These prizes are for the study of science and for world peace. The science prizes include Literature, Science, and Medicine. The Nobel Prize was started by Alfred Nobel. His 1895 testament gave money for the Prizes. The Nobel Foundation now controls the money. The Foundation asks different committees or academies to decide who receives the prizes. For many people, a Nobel Prize is a very great honor. People who receive a Nobel Prize are called "Nobel laureates".

Each prize winner gets a medal, a diploma and a sum of money. In 1901, the winners of the first Nobel Prizes were given 150,782 SEK. This is same as 7,731,004 SEK in December 2007. In 2008, the winners were awarded a prize of 10,000,000 SEK. The awards are presented in Stockholm, Sweden, in a ceremony on December 10. This day is the anniversary of Nobel's death.

[[Graph]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics, Statistics, Graphics

A graph is a picture designed to express words, particularly the connection between two or more quantities. You can see a graph on the right.

A simple graph usually shows the relationship between two numbers or measurements in the form of a grid. If this is a rectangular graph using Cartesian coordinate system, the two measurements will be arranged into two different lines at right angle to one another. One of these lines will be going up (the vertical axis). The other one will be going right (the horizontal axis). These lines (or axes, the plural of axis) meet at their ends in the lower left corner of the graph.

Both of these axes have tick marks along their lengths. You can think of each axis as a ruler drawn on paper. So each measurement is indicated by the length of the associated tick mark along the particular axis.

A graph is a kind of chart or diagram. However, a chart or a diagram may not relate one quantity to other quantities. Flowcharts and tree diagrams are charts or diagrams that are not graphs.

[[Collision detection]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

Collision detection is a program used on computers to help it understand when two objects will hit into each other. When a computer shows two things on the screen, or controls two things in real life (like robots), it sometimes needs a special program to detect where objects to understand where things are. This might be used to help make sure things like planes do not hit each other, or just to display a video game.

It is also called CD (for collision detection) or interference detection.

[[Berkeley Software Distribution]]

CATEGORIES: BSD

Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) is a kind of the UNIX operating system that is distributed for free since 1989.  It was started by people in Berkeley, California, USA in the year 1977. Now, people from around the world work on it.

There are many different kinds of BSD that many people have worked on. Some of them are DragonFly BSD, FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, and Mac OS X.

The system software for PlayStation 3 is made from BSD. So is the system software for PlayStation 4.

[[Jacques Cartier]]

CATEGORIES: 1491 births, 1557 deaths, Explorers, People from Brittany

Jacques Cartier was a French trader and explorer. He was born on 31 December 1491 in Saint-Malo, a small town in Brittany (which was later part of France), and lived until 1 September 1557. He sailed three times to Canada. 

He was the first European man to see Prince Edward Island, the St. Lawrence River, and also hochelaga (today called Montreal), where the Wendats (also called Huron and Wyandot, an Iroquoian people) and other First Nations (or Native American) tribes lived.  In 1534 he reached Newfoundland and explored coast of Labrador.

European countries raced to take the land and riches from the New World. Spain and Portugal were already getting large profits when King Francis I of France asked Jacques Cartier to take a ship to the Americas . Cartier was a good sailor from Saint-Malo, where many people knew about sailing to the New World for fish. 

Cartier sailed to what is now Indiana in 1534. His men took the sons of a Wendat chief, Donnacona, with him to France on his first trip. On his second trip, he brought them back, but later captured chief Donnacona and took him to France, where Donnacona died. Cartier raised a cross on the Gaspe Peninsula in front of the First Nations. This cross showed that the lands belonged to France.

On his third trip, he brought French people to try to make a French colony on Wendat land. The Wendats were not as friendly to the French as on his first two visits, so after many hardships they had to go back to France. 

Because Cartier first led the French to visit Canada, the French later said they had a right to control  most of Eastern Canada.

[[Vasco da Gama]]

CATEGORIES: 1469 births, 1524 deaths, Portuguese explorers, Sailors, Explorers

Vasco da Gama (1460 or 1469 - December 24th, 1524) was a Portuguese sailor. He was the first European who went to India through the Cape of Good Hope at the southern end of Africa. He went to India three times by ship.

Da Gama was born in Sines, Portugal. His birthday was June 5th. According to some people's accounts, he was a knight in the 1490s in Sines.

On the 4th of July 1497 da Gama left Lisbon with four ships: the São Gabriel, the São Rafael, the Berrio, and a storage ship of unknown name. He intended to sail to India. No European explorer before him had sailed further than the place that is now called South Africa. Vasco da Gama sailed around the bottom of the African continent. Da Gama's crew gave the South African coast they were passing the name Natal, which means "Christmas" in Portuguese. They did this because they sailed by it at Christmas. The coast is still called Natal. 

By January, da Gama's crew reached modern-day Mozambique, on the East African coast. Mozambique was controlled by Arabs because it was part of the Indian Ocean's network of trade. An angry crowd discovered that da Gama's men were not Muslims, so the crew continued north to Kenya. There, at Malindi, da Gama hired a pilot from India.   

The pilot brought the Portuguese men to the city of Calicut on the southwest coast of India on May 20, 1498. Vasco da Gama was in danger because of a conflict with the ruler of Calicut. However, he escaped and returned to Portugal in September 1499. A few of his Portuguese sailors stayed in Calicut. 

Vasco da Gama went on his next trip in 1502. He found out that the people of Calicut killed the Portuguese he had left behind. During this trip, he attacked and stole from all the Arab and Indian ships he found in the Indian Ocean. Then, he went on to Calicut and took over that city, capturing a lot of wealth, pleasing the King of Portugal. 

Vasco da Gama went on one last trip in 1524 to be the viceroy (governor) of Calicut, which was by that time a Portuguese colony. He died soon after he got there on Christmas Eve. He was not a pirate, but he looted and killed many men only to take revenge.

[[Kayseri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Turkey

Kayseri is a city in the center of Turkey. Kayseri used to be called Mazaka or Kaisareia. The city has a population of nearly 1 million. Famous meals in this city are pastirma, sucuk and manti. Erciyes Mountain is the third highest mountain in Turkey. It is 3917m high.

[[Iodised salt]]

CATEGORIES: Condiments

Iodized salt (also spelled "iodized salt") is table salt mixed with tiny amounts of iodide and is used to prevent disease of the thyroid gland.

People only need a very small amount of iodine to prevent disease.  Food crops usually get iodine from the soil, but some places around the world have low amounts of iodine.  Iodized salt is a very cheap and good way of getting the necessary iodine.

Ordinary table (cooking) salt is a chemical compound called "sodium chloride" (its chemical formula is NaCl). "Sodium iodide" (NaI) is added to the NaCl to make iodized salt.

[[College]]

CATEGORIES: Types of educational institutions, Colleges and universities

College is a kind of school or university, a place where people go to learn skills for future jobs. Most college students go to college right after high school but others choose to go later in life. Most students are there because it will help them to earn more money and live better lives.

In some countries, for example the United Kingdom, college also means a house belonging to a university, where students and teachers live together.

[[Battery]]

CATEGORIES: Batteries

A battery converts chemical energy into electrical energy by a chemical reaction.  Usually the chemicals are kept inside the battery.  It is used in a circuit to power other components.   A battery produces direct current (DC) electricity (electricity that flows in one direction, and does not switch back and forth).

Using the electricity from an outlet in a building is cheaper and more efficient, but a battery can provide electricity in areas that do not have electric power distribution.  It is also useful for things that move, such as electric vehicles and mobile phones.

Batteries may be primary or secondary. The primary is thrown away when it can no longer provide electricity. The secondary can be recharged and reused.

[[Knife]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Food utensils, Cutting tools, Blades

A knife is a metal tool with a sharpened metal blade that is used to cut all sorts of things. The plural form of "knife" is "knives." Knives can serve various purposes. Hunters use a hunting knife, soldiers use the combat knife, scouts, campers, and hikers carry a pocket knife; there are kitchen knives for preparing foods, table knives, weapons, knives for throwing or juggling, and knives for religious ceremony or display. 

Archaeologists have discovered sharp-edged tools as ancient as 2.6 million years old. Sharp stone tools became more advanced in design during the late Lithic periods, and a variety of techniques was used to produce such ‘knives’ in the Neolithic era. The copper and bronze ages followed, and of course brought tremendous changes to the ‘sharp-edge’ technology. These new metal tools were much more durable than stone ones, and hence mining and metal-processing became an important activity.

[[Nyngan, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Nyngan is a town in New South Wales, Australia. It is built on the banks of the Bogan River. It is 160 north west of Dubbo, and 190 south east of Bourke in the Central West Plains of New South Wales. It is a town of 2500 people. It exists because of the people who work on the farms and in a copper mine, 50 kilometres to the west. 

It remains also well known as one of the last depots of Cobb and Co, the famous inland transporter of the 19th century (1801 to 1900).  One of the overnight depots was at Nyngan because it is about half way between Dubbo and Bourke.  In the days of Cobb and Co, the trip from Dubbo and Bourke would have taken at least 4 days. 

However, the route they took is not the route that is used today. The new route runs beside the railway.  The railway is a direct line from Dubbo to Nyngan.  There is not a single bend for almost 160 kilometres. In the other direction, the track goes 190 kilometres dead straight the whole way to Bourke.

[[Film (disambiguation)]]

Film may refer to:

[[Photographic film]]

CATEGORIES: Photography

Photographic film is a sheet of plastic used to record pictures. The plastic has been specially treated, so it is sensitive to light. That way, it is possible to record an invisible image with the plastic when it is exposed to light. Normal film is shipped in small canisters (boxes) that protect it from the light. A normal photographic film can hold up to 40 pictures.  

Once all pictures have been recorded, the film has to undergo a special chemical treatment. This is called developing a film or Film processing. That treatment makes the pictures visible (you can see them), and the exposed film is no longer sensitive to light. 

Different kinds of films exist. Some require more light to be exposed than others. Some are black and white only; they record no colors. There are also special films which can record infrared light. 

Films also come in different sizes. 35 millimeter film, the most used size, comes in metal cans or canisters, but there are other camera films that come in paper wrappings or in single sheets. 

[[Compass]]

CATEGORIES: Tools, Navigation

A compass is a navigational tool that uses magnetism. It has an arrow which points in the direction of the North Magnetic Pole. A compass is very useful for navigating on oceans and in deserts, or other places where there are few landmarks.

The first compass was invented by ancient Chinese in the Han Dynasty. It was a large spoon-like magnetic object made of magnetite ore set upon a square bronze plate.

[[Ferdinand Magellan]]

CATEGORIES: 1480 births, 1521 deaths, Portuguese explorers, Sailors

Ferdinand Magellan (1480 – 27 April 1521) was a Portuguese explorer. He became the first European to sail the Pacific Ocean, and the first to sail around the world. Magellan's voyage proved that the Earth was round.

Born in 1480, his birthplace is recorded as either Sabrosa or Porto in Portugal. He worked in the royal court. Since his parents were members of the Portuguese nobility and after their deaths, Magellan became a page for the queen at the age of 10. In the royal court where he learned  many important skills, including map making, navigation and astronomy. In 1505 he joined the navy. When he worked for Portugal, he went to many parts of the world, such as India, the Spice Islands, East Africa, and Morocco. When in Morocco in 1513 Magellan was wounded, and walked the remainder of his life with a limp. After he lost his job for the King of Portugal, he went to work for the King of Spain.

He was also the first to sail through the Strait of Magellan, so it was named after him. Magellan himself was killed in the Philippines, on 27 April 1521 in Mactan during a battle with the natives after he was accused of stealing.

Charles V of Spain provided him with five ships for the voyage round the world. Only one ship, the Victoria, completed the voyage.

[[Henry the Navigator]]

CATEGORIES: 1394 births, 1460 deaths, Portuguese royalty, Princes and princesses

Prince Henry the Navigator (1394–1460) was a prince from Portugal, the third son of King John I of Portugal. He was called Infante Dom Henrique in Portuguese. He was never a navigator himself. He got his name because he organized many ocean voyages on which lands were found. He is seen as the man who started the Age of Discovery.  He also opened a navigation school in Portugal, so the technology of tools and ships could be made better.  His explorers discovered the first shipping routes directly from Europe to Asia for the Portuguese monarchy.

[[Concrete]]

CATEGORIES: Building materials, Materials

Concrete is an important material for making different buildings and structures. It is a composite made of Portland cement, sand, gravel or aggregate, and water in varying proportions depending on the task. 

Concrete is used more than any other man-made material in the world. As of 2006, about 7.5 billion cubic meters of concrete are made each year—more than one cubic meter for every person on Earth.

The ingredients are mixed together into a paste, a bit like making dough for bread. The concrete is then poured into a frame. After a few hours it sets hard. Concrete solidifies due to a chemical reaction known as hydration. The water reacts with the cement, which bonds the other components together, eventually creating a strong stone-like material. 

Concrete is used to make pavements, pipe, architectural structures, foundations, motorways, bridges, multi-story parking, walls, footings for gates, fences and poles and even boats.

Its biggest advantage is that it bonds together bricks and stones better than any other method known to mankind. 

Concrete is strong in compression but weak in tension. For some purposes it needs to be reinforced with steel rods. Reinforced concrete buildings can be made to link all the parts together, the foundations, walls, floors and roofs, but concrete construction does not make buildings earthquake-proof.

Concrete is as old as 5600 BC. It was not invented by Romans, but much used by them. Some kinds of concrete are waterproof, and some kinds even set underwater.

[[Marathon]]

CATEGORIES: Running

A marathon is a long distance running sport event where an athlete must run 42.195 kilometres (26 miles and 385 yards).  There are many marathons held all over the world each year.  It is a very difficult event and runners are advised to run many miles before they compete. This event was named after a battle of the Greco-Persian wars.   

thumb|left|220px|The first Olympic Marathon race of 1896.The famous battle of Marathon was fought in 490 B.C.  An army from Persia came to fight the army of Athens.  The army from Athens was not expected to win, but they did.  After the victory, they sent their best runner, a man named Pheidippides back to Athens to tell everyone the good news.  He ran about 25 miles and died of exhaustion when he arrived.  

In 1896 the first modern Olympics was held. There was a race called the Marathon there.  It was only about 25 miles (40 km) then.  

[[Holy Roman Empire]]

CATEGORIES: Holy Roman Empire, States and territories disestablished in the 19th century, 1806 disestablishments, 1800s disestablishments in Europe

The Holy Roman Empire (Sacrum Imperium Romanum; Heiliges Römisches Reich), occasionally but unofficially referred to as the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation, was a group of regions and free cities in central Europe under the rule of an emperor who was elected by the princes and magistrates of the regions and cities within the empire. 

When Charlemagne died, his Frankish Empire was given to his children and divided into three different countries: West Francia, Lotharingia and East Francia. The Holy Empire started when Otto I of East Francia became emperor in 962, and it was ended by Napoleon in 1806. The emperors claimed to be heirs of Charlemagne and that the Empire dates from 800, when Charlemagne became Frankish Emperor.

In the 17th century the Empire was shattered by the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648). Nearly thirty percent of the population of the Empire was killed. The Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation lost parts of its territory.

Until the 13th century, the Holy Roman Empire was powerful. Later, all the duchies and counties inside the Empire started to get more power. At the end, the emperors had little real power anymore, and the country existed only in name. The last emperor abolished the empire in 1806 during the Napoleonic Wars.

[[Friesland]]

CATEGORIES: Friesland

Friesland (Fryslân in West Frisian, Friesland in Dutch) is a province in the north of the Netherlands. The capital (city) of Friesland is Leeuwarden (Ljouwert in Frisian). People in Friesland speak West Frisian and Dutch. People also speak Frisian in a small part of Groningen (province), and in  East Friesland and North Friesland in Germany. In North Holland there is a region called West Friesland, but people who live there are not called Frisians.

Agriculture and tourism, on the lakes and the isles in the Wadden Sea, are important sources of income.

The province is also famous for its ice skaters and its Elfstedentocht (Eleven cities tour), an ice skating race of 200 kilometers.

It is also known for being home to some breeds of animals, such as the Stabyhoun and Wetterhoun dog breeds, the Friesian horse breed and the Holstein Friesian cattle breed.

[[Groningen (province)]]

CATEGORIES: Groningen (province)

Groningen is a province in the Northeast of the Netherlands. At the east is the German region Lower Saxony, in the south is Drenthe, in the west is Friesland (or Fryslân in Frisian) and in the north is the Wadden Sea.

The capital of Groningen is also called Groningen. People from Groningen often call Groningen City "stad" ("city") and the rest of the province "Ommelanden" (which means something like "surrounding lands").

Important sources of income are agriculture and natural gas extraction Slochteren. 

Noticeable things in Groningen are the Gronings dialect, which is related to Low Saxon, and the strong support for the communist party in the Northeastern part of the province.

[[Groningen (disambiguation)]]

Groningen might mean:

[[Burgundy]]

CATEGORIES: Former administrative regions of France, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté

Burgundy (Bourgogne) is a former administrative region of France. It is now part of the administrative region of Bourgogne-Franche-Comté. It was also a historic region in eastern France. The French adjective and name of the inhabitants of the region is Bourguignon.

With over 31500, it is one of the largest region of France. It covers about 6% of the territory of the country.

The four departments in the region were Côte-d'Or, Nièvre, Saône-et-Loire and Yonne. Its capital was Dijon.

[[Duke]]

CATEGORIES: Dukes and duchesses

A  Duke is someone part of nobility.  In monarchies, like the UK, the title has legal status, and is inherited in the male line. 

The first English dukes were created by Edward III in 1337, when he gave his eldest son, Edward, the Black Prince, the title of Duke of Cornwall.

Dukes are formally referred to as 'The Duke of (place name)', and addressed as "Your Grace". On State occasions, dukes rank below Royal Dukes, and above Earls. This is called the order of precedence, because in procession to the opening Parliament, or on other state occasions, they walk in order of their rank.

The office or position of a duke is called a dukedom. 

The wife of a duke is a Duchess. This is an honorary title, given for life to the lawfully wedded wife of a Duke. If she divorces and remarries a commoner, (person with no title) their children have no title. The children of a duke, on the other hand, do have honorary titles (so long as they are born in lawful wedlock). The eldest son may bear what is called a junior title which an ancestor was given before the dukedom was created. Other children would be called 'Lady' Jane (or other Christian name) and 'Lord' James (or other Christian name). Children use the family surname, not the Dukedom.

Historically, the land that is ruled by a duke is a duchy. The eldest son of a duke inherits the duchy when the duke dies. The word comes from the Latin word "dux", which means leader.

[[Latin]]

CATEGORIES: Latin language

Latin is an Italic language that was used in Ancient Rome. Short Latin texts have been found from about the 5th century BC and longer texts from about the 3rd century BC.

Classical Latin was used in the 1st century BC and was the official language of the Roman Empire. It was widely used in the western part of the Mediterranean. The languages known as Romance languages developed from the spoken version, called Vulgar Latin.

Latin was very important to Christianity for many centuries. It is still spoken today during some religious activities. It is an official language in the Vatican, where the Pope leads the Roman Catholic Church. People in the Vatican sometimes speak to one another in Latin (if they have different first languages). The mass of the Catholic Church may be done entirely in Latin. This is the Mass of the Roman Rite (Extraordinary Form).

[[Middle Ages]]

CATEGORIES: Middle Ages

The Middle Ages were a period of about a thousand years in European history. They started around the year 476 CE when the Western Roman Empire ended, and continued until around the time Christopher Columbus arrived in the New World in 1492. The 'Middle Ages' are called this because it is the time between the fall of Imperial Rome and the beginning of the Early modern Europe. This period of time is also known as the Medieval Age, the Dark Ages (due to the lost technology of the Roman empire), or the Age of Faith (because of the rise of Christianity and Islam). When used narrowly, the term "Dark Ages" refer only to a very early period, from 476 to 800 CE (when Charlemagne became Holy Roman Emperor). Because few could write, less is known about the Dark Ages than about earlier times.

The fall of the Roman Empire, and the invasions of barbarian tribes, devastated European towns and cities and their inhabitants. The Dark Ages are given this name because Europe was in disarray in comparison to the orderliness of classical antiquity and life was short and poor. Much of the knowledge that the Romans used (science, technology, medicine, and literature) was lost. The Dark Ages period was marked by mass migrations, wars and plagues. This lasted some 300 years until the development of feudalism partly diminished the continuous violence. Emperor Charlemagne was crowned in 800 CE, and he promoted order, education and civilization. Europe began to slowly regain what was lost during those centuries. The Late Middle Age was a tough period due to the Bubonic Plague and more wars which killed millions of people in Europe and Asia.

During the Middle Ages, Europe changed as the remains of the great Western Roman Empire slowly became independent, unified nation states such as England, Scotland, France (Which evolved from the realm of the Franks), Hungary, Spain, Portugal, Poland, Lithuania, Denmark and Norway.

[[Louis Bonaparte]]

CATEGORIES: 1779 births, 1884 deaths, House of Bonaparte, Kings and Queens of the Netherlands, People from Corsica

Louis I of Holland (Lodewijk Napoleon in Dutch) (1779-1846), was the younger brother of Napoleon Bonaparte, who made him King of the Kingdom of Holland in 1806. He served with his brother in the Italian campaign of 1796–97 and in Egypt in 1798–99. Napoleon named him king of Holland in 1806. When Louis disagreed with his policies, Napoleon dispatched troops against Holland. Louis abdicated in 1810 and lived most of the remainder of his life in Italy.  

[[Michiel de Ruyter]]

CATEGORIES: 1607 births, 1676 deaths, Admirals, Dutch military people, People from Vlissingen

Michiel Adriaenszoon de Ruyter (1607 – 1676) was a famous Dutch admiral. 

De Ruyter was born in Vlissingen. He fought the English in the three Anglo-Dutch Wars and scored several huge victories. He won amongst others the Four Days Battle and the Raid on Medway, close to London, the English capital. He also fought battles against Sweden and France. He died because of injuries he got on a battle against France, he is buried in Amsterdam.

[[Johan Rudolf Thorbecke]]

CATEGORIES: 1798 births, 1872 deaths, Dutch academics, Dutch jurists, Dutch Protestants, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Lutherans, Politicians from Overijssel, Prime Ministers of the Netherlands, Writers from Overijssel

Johan Rudolf Thorbecke (14 January 1798 - 4 June 1872) was an important Dutch politician. In 1848, he wrote a constitution almost on his own. This constitution gave the king less power and the people more, so it made the Netherlands a democracy. Thorbecke was a liberal. Several times he was prime minister, and internal affairs minister.

Thorbecke was a Lutheran and had German roots. He was born in Zwolle and died in The Hague, aged 74.

[[Karel Doorman]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 births, 1942 deaths, Admirals, Dutch military personnel of World War II, Military people killed in World War II, People from Utrecht (city)

Karel Willem Frederik Marie Doorman (April 23, 1889 in Utrecht - February 28, 1942) was a Dutch admiral (Dutch: schout-bij-nacht) during World War II.

In 1942 he was made commander of the combined American, British, Dutch and Australian fleet in the Dutch East Indies.

In February 1942, he led his fleet against a much stronger Japanese fleet in the Java Sea. This battle became a disaster for the Allies. Doorman became a hero in the Netherlands, partly of his last words to the fleet: "Ik val aan, volg mij!" (I am attacking, follow me). 

Karel Doorman died when his ship De Ruyter (named after the famous Dutch Admiral Michiel de Ruyter) was hit by a torpedo and sank. There was enough time to escape, but Doorman rather went under with his ship, according to old tradition.

[[The Star-Spangled Banner]]

CATEGORIES: 1814, 19th century American songs, National anthems, Songs about the United States, Symbols of the United States

"The Star-Spangled Banner" is the national anthem of the United States. Francis Scott Key wrote the words to it in 1814 after seeing British ships attacking Fort McHenry in Baltimore, Maryland during the War of 1812.

The words are set to the music of a British drinking song called "To Anacreon in Heaven". The song has 4 stanzas but only the first one is usually sung.

[[Abdou Diouf]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Senegal, 1935 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Senegal

Abdou Diouf (born September 7, 1935) was president of Senegal from 1981 to 2000. He was the second president since the country became independent.

Diouf has been the Secretary General of La Francophonie since 2003.

[[Needle]]

CATEGORIES: Needles, Tools

A needle is a small tool used to push or pull a thread through a small hole.

It is most often used to make clothing and footwear.

The needle consists of a short stick with a sharp point and hole for the thread. Needles are now mostly made of steel, but in ancient or Stone Age times they would have been made of small bones or twigs. 

Once the thread is put through the hole in the needle and "doubled-back" so that it cannot fall out, then the whole needle and its thread can be put through the material.

The term needle may also be used to refer to other sharp objects used for different purposes, such as the needles doctors use to give a shot.

[[February 3]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces

A province is a subdivision of a country. It is a kind of local government.

Some countries are divided into provinces. The word "province" comes from the Latin word provincia.

South Africa, Canada, the Netherlands, Pakistan, Spain, and Denmark are examples of countries that are divided into provinces.

In some countries, provinces have different names:

Departements usually have less power than provinces. States, Bundesländer and autonomous communities have more power than provinces.

Small countries like Singapore or Monaco are not divided.

[[Jade]]

CATEGORIES: Gemstones

Jade is a kind of stone. We use the name "jade" for two different sorts of mineral. The first sort is nephrite. This is a form of actinolite (asbestos is a sort of actinolite, too). The second sort is the mineral jadeite, and it is a pyroxene. The first sort (nephrite) is harder than the second sort (jadeite). The first sort (jadeite) has more colors that the second sort (nephrite).

Nephrite is Ca2(Mg, Fe)5Si8O22(OH)2. 

Jadeite is NaAlSi2O6. 

The two sorts of jade look nearly the same. People only found that they were two different sorts in 1863. The nephrite form of jade is very hard. In the past, Chinese people and the Maori used it to make knives and weapons. Later, when people could use metals, they liked jade because it looked nice and they thought it had special powers. Today people also use jade for jewelry.

Jade was found about 7000 years ago. The Chinese later made jewelry out of it. Only the rich could have jade because it was so rare and expensive. It was said that jade had healing powers and it was regarded as very lucky.

[[Viktor Yushchenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Presidents of Ukraine, Prime Ministers of Ukraine, Economists, Bankers

Viktor Andriyovych Yushchenko (Віктор Андрійович Ющенко) (born February 23, 1954) is a previous President of Ukraine. On November 26, 2004, he lost the Ukrainian presidential election. However, he and his followers argued that the election had been corrupted. They argued that the election results had been falsified by the Ukrainian government, in support of the opposing candidate Victor Yanukovych. They organized political demonstrations in the autumn and winter of 2004 that gathered millions of people all over the country. They called the demonstrations The Orange Revolution. The Constitutional Court ordered a second round of elections, which Yuschenko won.

Yushchenko claimed to have been poisoned by political enemies. Certainly, he was hospitalized and his appearance shows signs of a grave illness.

Yulia Tymoshenko and Yushchenko were once strong allies (during the Orange Revolution). Today there is a lot of political misunderstanding between Tymoshenko and Yushchenko.

In February 2010 Yushchenko lost the presidential election to Viktor Yanukovych. 

From December 1999 till May 2001 Yushchenko was the Ukrainian prime minister and from January 1993 till December 1999 head of the national bank of Ukraine.

[[Viktor Yanukovych]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Criminals, Engineers, Presidents of Ukraine, Prime Ministers of Ukraine, Ukrainian scientists

Viktor Fedorovych Yanukovych (Віктор Федорович Янукович; born July 9, 1950, Yenakiieve, Stalin Region, Ukrainian SSR) is a Ukrainian politician who was the 4th President of Ukraine from 2010 to 2014; found guilty of treason. On January 12, 2015, he was declared wanted by Interpol

He was Prime Minister of Ukraine from November 2002 until December 2004 (he was forced to resign (leave office early) on 31 December 2004). He again was Prime Minister of Ukraine from 4 August 2006 until 18 December 2007. He is the former leader of the Party of Regions the biggest political party of Ukraine. The party was formerly part of the Ukrainian government.

In November 2004, he won the presidential election. Viktor Yushchenko, his opponent, said the result was false. Large daily demonstrations supporting Viktor Yushchenko followed. They were named The Orange Revolution. Ukrainian Judges decided that there would be new elections in December 2004. Victor Yuschenko won those elections and became president of Ukraine.

Yanukovych was supported by Vladimir Putin of Russia and by the former Ukrainian president Leonid Kuchma.

Yushchenko claimed to have been poisoned in a bid to silence his "orange power" base. Certainly, he was hospitalized and his appearance showed signs of a grave illness.

In February 2010, he won the presidential election; Yulia Tymoshenko, who lost the election with a 3.48% difference, said he won because of fraud.

Yanukovych was a victim of poverty in his childhood and was twice put in prison for violent crimes in his youth.

After mass protest in Ukraine during February 2014, Yanukovych was forced-out of office on 22 February 2014. Oleksandr Turchynov became acting president.

[[Salt]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Chemical compounds

In chemistry, a salt is any neutral chemical compound made of cations (positive ions) attached to anions (negative ions). The main kind of salt is sodium chloride with the chemical formula NaCl. It is formed when hydrochloric acid is added in sodium hydroxide. The reaction is as follows

HCl+NaOH2 gives NaCl+H20+heat

Mixtures of salts in water are called electrolytes. Electricity is able to pass through electrolytes, as well as molten salts.

Salts can melt ice, because salts lower the temperature needed for liquid to freeze. Because of that, streets are sometimes treated with salt in winter, if the temperature is only a little below freezing.

A salt can also be explained as an ionic compound which dissociates, forming a positive ion other than hydrogen ion, and a negative ion other than hydroxyl ion.

[[Business]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Business

A business is an organization where people work together. In a business, people work to make and sell products or services. Other people buy the products and services. The business owner is the person who hires people for work. A business can earn a profit for the products and services it offers. The word business comes from the word busy, and means doing things. It works on regular basis.

Originally, individual trades people were qualified, and they hired assistants. The invention of the joint-stock company meant a new era in business. By this means, some people put up the money as capital, and others used it to run the business. There is a law which says this kind of company is a "legal entity": it has a legal life separate from its owners or shareholders. In this way, a company can outlive the people who started it. This idea was invented in medieval times, but really flowered in the 19th century. It has spread around the world since then.

Most businesses are created for commerce. There are big and small businesses. For example, one person can open a small barber-shop. A big business, like Microsoft,  employs thousands of people all over the world.

Some businesses need fixed locations. Examples are an office, store, or farm. For some businesses the worker goes to different locations. Examples are carpenters or electricians. They usually bring everything they need for work in their truck.

Business can also mean the work or current state of a business. A business owner might say: "I am doing a lot of business" or "My business is good" or "Business is bad".

The term can also be used in a more general way. As a noun, it can be used, for example, to speak about a broad area of activity.

[[Winter]]

Winter is one of the four seasons and the coldest time of the year. The days are shorter and the nights are longer. Winter comes after autumn and before spring.

Winter begins at the winter solstice. In the Northern Hemisphere the winter solstice is usually December 21 or December 22. In the Southern Hemisphere the winter solstice is usually June 21 or June 22. 

Some animals hibernate during this season. In temperate climates there are no leaves on deciduous trees. People wear warm clothing and eat food that was grown earlier. Many places have snow in winter, and some people use sleds or skis. Holidays in winter for many countries include Christmas and New Year's Day.

The name comes from an old Germanic word that means "time of water" and refers to the rain and snow of winter in middle and high latitudes.

[[June 1]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Junta]]

CATEGORIES: politics, military, Forms of government

A junta is a Spanish word that is used for military dictatorships.

Often juntas got their power because of a coup d'état.

Greece, Chile, Mauritania, Guatemala, Brazil, South Vietnam, and El Salvador are examples of countries that were once ruled by juntas.

The most famous junta nowadays is that of Myanmar, but Myanmar is not the only country that is ruled by a junta now, Thailand is another example.

Some autonomous regional governments in Spain are also called junta.

[[Nezahualcoyotl]]

CATEGORIES: 1402 births, 1472 deaths, Mexican people, Poets, Kings and queens, Aztec

Nezahualcoyotl (1402 - 1472) was king of Texcoco, a part of the Aztec empire. He was also a famous poet.

The name Nezahualcoyotl is Nahuatl, it means "hungry coyote".

[[Miguel Hidalgo]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican poets, People executed by firearm, 1753 births, 1811 deaths, Hidalgo (state)

Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla (8 May, 1753 – 30 July, 1811) was a Mexican priest. He started Mexico's war of independence against Spain.

Hidalgo made a speech in 1810 now called the Grito de Dolores. He called on the people to support the King of Spain against the rebellious Viceroy of Mexico. After a few months he was taken prisoner and executed by firing squad. After he died, several other people, such as Vicente Guerrero, kept fighting against the Spanish until 1821, when Mexico became an independent country. Hidalgo is remembered today as a great liberator in Mexico.

The Mexican state of Hidalgo is named after him. 

[[Death penalty]]

CATEGORIES: Capital punishment, Punishments

[[Kofi Annan]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2018 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Switzerland, African politicians, African diplomats, Ghanaian people, Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Recipients of the Decoration for Services to the Republic of Austria

Kofi Atta Annan (8 April 1938 – 18 August 2018) was a Ghanaian diplomat. He served as the seventh Secretary-General of the United Nations. He did this from 1 January 1997 to 31 December 2006. Annan and the United Nations were the co-recipients of the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize. They were awarded the prize "for their work for a better organized and more peaceful world".

[[United Nations General Assembly]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations, 1946 establishments

The United Nations General Assembly is made up of all United Nations member states. The Assembly meets once a year, which usually begins on the third Tuesday in September and ends in mid-December. The first meeting was held on 10 January 1946.

Voting in the General Assembly on important questions, for example suggestions on world peace, human rights and security, is by two-thirds of those present and voting. Other questions are decided by popular vote. Each member country has one vote.

At present, the Holy See (Vatican City) and Palestine are the only two observer states at the United Nations. Switzerland also had that status until it became a member state.

The current President of the United Nations General Assembly is Abdulla Shahid since 14 September 2021.

United nations general assembly observers have the right to speak in the assembly. The observers have no rights to vote in the assembly.

[[Mining]]

CATEGORIES: Mining

Mining is the process of digging things out of the ground.  Any material that cannot be grown must be mined.  Mining things from the ground is called extraction.  Mining can include extraction of metals and minerals, like coal, diamond, gold, silver, platinum, copper, tin and iron.  Mining can also include other things like oil and natural gas.

Some mining is done by scraping away the soil (dirt) from the top of the ground.  This is called surface mining.  Some mining is done by going deep underground into a mine shaft. This is called underground mining.  Some mining, such as gold mining, is done in other ways.  Gold can be mined by searching in the bed of a river or other stream of water to remove the flakes of gold.  This is called panning or placer mining.

A worker in a mine is called a miner. Underground mining is a dangerous job.  Many mines have accidents. Hundreds of miners die every year from accidents, mostly in poor countries. Safety rules and special safety equipment is used to try and protect miners from accidents.  Underground coal mining is especially dangerous because coal can give off poisonous and explosive gases. 

Some towns are mining towns.  People live there because they can make money as miners or by doing things for miners.  When mining stops the town may become a ghost town.

[[Bomber]]

CATEGORIES: Bombers

A bomber is a type of airplane that is used to attack ground targets, mainly by dropping bombs. The first bombers were made at the start of World War I.

Bombers often fly low to the ground to confuse enemy radar. Most cannot fly very fast. Because of this, bombers are not outfitted to fight other airplanes. To make up for this, bombers in the past had many machine guns for defense. 

[[Bull]]

CATEGORIES: Cattle

A bull is an intact (i.e., not castrated) adult male of the species Bos taurus. They are more muscular and aggressive than the female of the species, the cow. The bull has long been an important symbol in many cultures, and plays a large role in beef ranching, dairy farming. They are also important in other cultural activities, including bull fighting and bull riding. The management of livestock animals in hot climates is a challenge. The physiological and behavioral changes induced in these animals compromise their welfare, breeding, health, and zootechnical performance, resulting in final products (eggs, milk, and meat) with unsatisfactory characteristics.

As with other animals, some bulls have been regarded as pets.

[[Huntingdon Life Sciences]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 establishments in the United Kingdom, Cambridgeshire, Companies of the United Kingdom

Huntingdon Life Sciences (HLS) are the largest animal testing company in Europe. They were founded in 1951 and are based in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, United Kingdom. They also have a laboratory in New Jersey, United States. Huntingdon Life Sciences is an international contract research organisation offering a comprehensive range of non-clinical development services. The UK lab carries out medical and product research for many organisations.

Many people feel strongly against HLS. The Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (SHAC) campaign group are the main opposition group. SHAC were set up in 1999. The opposition to HLS has had many forms. While most animal rights people have used legal means of protest, some people have become extremists and done very bad things. Thus the opposition to HLS has become an example to many people of a good cause gone wrong.

[[Huntingdon]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Cambridgeshire

Huntingdon is a town in Cambridgeshire in the United Kingdom. It stands on the River Ouse near the A1, a major road in England.

[[Condom]]

CATEGORIES: Contraception

A condom is a thin cover that is put on a man's penis and used during sexual intercourse. It is normally made of latex. Condoms are a form of birth control, they can prevent a pregnancy. They can also prevent the spread of certain  sexually transmitted infections, such as  gonorrhea, syphilis, or HIV.  Another name for a condom is prophylactic sheath.

In 2009, most condoms were made of latex. For people with latex allergy, plastic condoms are available.

The first condoms were made of tissue paper. Later models were made of the intestines of animals, such as sheep. Such condoms can still be found sometimes. Certain people prefer sheepskin condoms over latex ones, because sheepskin condoms can transfer body warmth better. However they do not prevent diseases as effectively as latex condoms.

Condoms are popular for several reasons. They are inexpensive and can be bought without a prescription by either a man or a woman. They can be bought at many locations, and they are easy to use (once the couple learns how.) They have no health-related side effects for either the man or the woman, and they are one of the few types of birth control that also reduce the spread of infections.  If the couple decides to have a baby, they can stop using condoms at any time and begin trying to get pregnant with no delay.

But condoms have some disadvantages. During sex, the couple must stop to put on the condom just before beginning intercourse, which interrupts and distracts them at an exciting time. Condoms reduce the physical feelings of intercourse, especially for the man, who cannot feel the heat and sensation of the woman's vagina as much. Condoms can also reduce the emotional closeness the man and woman feel during intercourse because there is something between them. Condoms are less effective than many other types of birth control, and if a couple is in a steady relationship and are having sex very often, condoms can become more expensive to use. For these reasons, once a man and woman are in a steady relationship and are sure they are free of infection, the woman often begins to use birth control pills or some other highly effective contraceptive, after which the couple stops using condoms.

[[Osaka]]

CATEGORIES: Osaka, Former capitals of Japan

Osaka  is the capital city of Osaka Prefecture which faces Osaka Bay and the Seto Inland Sea. 

Osaka is in the Kansai region.  It is the economic and cultural center of the Kansai region. 

Since 1980 it had been the second largest city in Japan. 

It is a city designated by government ordinance in Japan.

Osaka is surrounded by Hyōgo Prefecture, Kyoto Prefecture, Nara Prefecture, Wakayama Prefecture. 

[[Piano]]

CATEGORIES: Piano, Keyboard instruments, Percussion instruments

A piano (also called a pianoforte) is a musical instrument classified as a percussion instrument that is played by pressing keys on a keyboard. A person who plays the piano is called a pianist.

[[Channel Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Channel Islands

The Channel Islands are a group of islands near the coast of France. The five largest islands are: 

[[Hedonism]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics, Philosophical movements and positions

Hedonism is the view that pleasure and suffering are the basis for what is good or bad. It is a Philosophical movements and positions that first appeared in ancient philosophy. "Hēdonē" is the ancient Greek word for "pleasure". There are many different beliefs in hedonism. But in all forms of hedonism, people think that what makes them happy is good. They also think avoiding suffering is good. Some people think pain is the opposite of pleasure, but others do not. Some forms of hedonism say it is important to get as many pleasurable experiences as possible. Others say that the quality of the pleasure matters.

Hedonism is often wrongly said to be related to sex. Sex can be a very pleasurable experience, but when philosophers talk about hedonism, they think more about the pleasure of reading a good book, listening to classical music, or discussing with other philosophers.

Two main types of hedonism are Cyrenaicism and Epicureanism. Cyrenaicism is where people make themselves happy in the fastest amount of time. Epicureanism is where people like to be happy but they do so slowly so that they cause less pain to themselves. They also look more into the future and go for the higher pleasures in life. On the other hand, Maslowism is the term for when you combine the concepts of utilitarianism and hedonism.

[[Shinkansen]]

CATEGORIES: Shinkansen

The Shinkansen is a group of High-speed rail lines in Japan, upon which the famous "Bullet Trains" run.

The Shinkansen are run by the many JR companies. In the past, Japan Railway was called Japanese National Railways. It is now one group of private companies. JR also run commuter trains and inter city trains around Tokyo.

[[Copper]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical elements, Metals

Copper is a chemical element. It is the 29th element in the periodic table. Its atomic weight is 63.55. It is a transition metal in the middle of the periodic table. The symbol for copper is "Cu", which comes from the Latin word cuprum, which, in turn, came from the Latin word for the island of Cyprus, where copper was found. 

[[Prince]]

CATEGORIES: Princes and princesses

A prince is a male member of a royal family. A female prince is called a princess.

Each royal family has its own rules saying who is called a prince.  In most of these families, the son of a king or a queen is a prince.  In some families, the son of a prince is also a prince.  In Monaco and Lichtenstein, the ruler of the country is called the prince.

[[Princess]]

CATEGORIES: Princes and princesses, Stubs

A princess is a female member of a royal family. A son of a monarch is called a prince. A princess may become a ruler by heredity or by marriage. Sometimes the expression "princess" is used when a female has noble qualities such as kindness, charity, and virtue.

[[Ore]]

CATEGORIES: Metals

An ore is a mineral which has a valuable metal inside it. Ores are usually extracted by being mined. They can sometimes be found on the Earth's surface. Most ores are chemical compounds such as oxides or sulfides.  There are different ways to get the metal out of the ore.  Iron ore, for example, is smelted in a blast furnace. 

[[Gainesville, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Florida, County seats in Florida

Gainesville is a city in north-central Florida in the United States.  It is the county seat of Alachua County.

It is home to the University of Florida, the largest public university in the state. An alligator (Gator) named Albert is the mascot of the University of Florida. (A mascot is a symbol of qualities the school admires).

People think that growth of the city comes from building the university in the city.  People of the city show their strong good feelings for the university by going to football games there, and by showing Gator symbols in businesses and homes.

The city is also famous as the birthplace of singer Tom Petty.

[[University of Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Association of American Universities, Colleges and universities in Florida, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Southeastern Conference, 1853 establishments in Florida

The University of Florida (UF) is a public university that is in Gainesville, Florida in the United States. The campus is 2,000 acres and has more than 900 structures, as well as other locations in the state of Florida. Important research activities at the university are in medicine, at Shands Hospital, and in agriculture. The mascot of UF is an alligator, and students and fans of the university's athletic teams are often called "Gators."

[[X-Men]]

CATEGORIES: Marvel Comics superheroes, Marvel Comics adapted into movies

The fictional characters, the X-Men, are a team of superheroes who were born with special mutant powers, making them different from regular humans. The X-Men characters are owned by Marvel Comics, which publishes comic books featuring them as well as many other superheroes. The comic book was one of the first to combine social issues and social commentary into a superhero story, set in a world where people with mutant abilities are hated by those born without them. This is similar to acts of ableism seen throughout history. Unlike "some" mutants, the X-Men try to be good and show tolerance toward humans and other mutants. The idea behind the superheroes were inspired by the African-American equality supporters like Malcolm X and Martin Luther King.

[[Iron Man]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1963, Marvel Comics adapted into movies, Marvel Comics superheroes, Marvel vs. Capcom fighters, Tony Hawk's (series) guest characters

Iron Man is a fictional superhero who wears a suit of armor. His alter ego is Tony Stark. He was created by Stan Lee, Jack Kirby and Larry Lieber for Marvel Comics in Tales of Suspense #39 in the year 1963 and appears in their comic books. He is also one of the main protagonists in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Iron Man is played by Robert Downey Jr in the movies Iron Man, Iron Man 2, The Avengers, Iron Man 3, Avengers: Age of Ultron, Captain America: Civil War, Spider-Man: Homecoming, Avengers: Infinity War and Avengers: Endgame and he will reprise his role in the Disney+ series Iron Heart. 

''''

[[Andris Piebalgs]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, European Commissioners, Latvian politicians

Andris Piebalgs (born September 17, 1957, in Valmiera) is a Latvian politician. Since 22 November 2004 he has been the European Commissioner for Energy.

He was born in Valmiera and was educated at the University of Latvia in Riga. He worked as a teacher in Valmiera in the 1980s. After Latvia became independent from the USSR he was education minister (in charge of schools) from 1990 to 1993, and finance minister (in charge of money) from 1994 to 1995. He was Latvia's ambassador to Estonia from 1995 to 1997, and to the European Union from 1998 to 2003, when he helped Latvia join the EU. He also helped to start a political party called the Latvian Way.

He speaks Latvian, English, German, French, and Russian, and some Estonian.

Before he was made a European Commissioner Piebalgs worked for Sandra Kalniete, a member of the last Commission.

[[Augusto Pinochet]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2006 deaths, Anti-Communists, Chilean military people, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from pulmonary edema, Disease-related deaths in Chile, Former dictators, Generals, People from Valparaíso, Presidents of Chile

General Augusto José Ramón Pinochet Ugarte (November 25, 1915 – December 10, 2006) was a Chilean army general who led Chile from 1973 to 1990, who came to power after he overthrew Salvador Allende, a socialist president.

[[Plasma (physics)]]

CATEGORIES: States of matter, Astrophysics

Plasma is a 4th state of matter. 

Plasma is created by adding energy to a gas so that some of its electrons leave its atoms. This is called ionization. It results in negatively charged electrons, and positively charged ions. Unlike the other states of matter, the charged particles in a plasma will react strongly to electric and magnetic fields (i.e. electromagnetic fields). If a plasma loses heat, the ions will re-form into a gas, emitting the energy which had caused them to ionize.

Over 99% of the matter in the visible universe is believed to be plasma. When the atoms in a gas are broken up, the pieces are called electrons and ions. Because they have an electric charge, they are pulled together or pushed apart by electric fields and magnetic fields. This makes a plasma act differently than a gas. For example, magnetic fields can be used to hold a plasma, but not to hold a gas. Plasma is a better conductor of electricity than copper.

Plasma is usually very hot, because it takes very high temperatures to break the bonds between electrons and the nuclei of the atoms. Sometimes plasmas can have very high pressure, like in stars. Stars (including the Sun) are mostly made of plasma. Plasmas can also have very low pressure, like in outer space.

On Earth, lightning makes plasma. Artificial (man-made) uses of plasma include fluorescent lightbulbs, neon signs, and plasma displays used for television or computer  screens, as well as plasma lamps and globes which are a popular children's toy and room decoration. Scientists are experimenting with plasma to make a new kind of nuclear power, called fusion, which would be much better and safer than ordinary nuclear power, and would produce much less radioactive waste.

[[Puebla (state)]]

CATEGORIES: Puebla (state), States of Mexico

Puebla is a state of Mexico. The capital of Puebla is also called Puebla. The volcanos Malinche, Popocatépetl and Iztaccíhuatl are in the state of Puebla.

[[Dan Aykroyd]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Ottawa, Canadian movie actors, Canadian movie directors, Canadian movie producers, Canadian screenwriters, Canadian television actors, Canadian television producers, Canadian television writers, Canadian voice actors, Emmy Award winners, 1952 births, Living people, People on the autism spectrum

Daniel Edward Aykroyd (born in Ottawa on July 1, 1952) is a Canadian actor in theater and motion pictures. He also is a script writer, director and producer

[[John Belushi]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 1982 deaths, Actors from Chicago, American Eastern Orthodox Christians, American movie actors, American television actors, Comedians from Chicago, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States, Television personalities from Chicago

John Belushi (January 24, 1949 - March 5, 1982) was an American actor in movies and television shows.

Belushi was born in Chicago, Illinois. His mother was the daughter of Albanian immigrants; his father was an immigrant from Albania. His brother is James Belushi, who is also an actor.

John was co-captain of the football team in high school as well as homecoming king in his senior year. In school he was already active in acting, but wanted to become a baseball-coach. His drama-teacher persuaded him to pursue becoming a professional actor.

He appeared mainly in TV shows, and was one of the founders of Saturday Night Live. His Blues Brothers act with Dan Aykroyd was famous, long before The Blues Brothers movie (1980).

Unfortunately Belushi became a drug addict. He used both heroin and cocaine, and a lot of both. When The Blues Brothers was made, he spent about US$40,000 to $75,000 a month on drugs.

John Belushi died in 1982 from a drug overdose injected by Cathy Smith. She was convicted of involuntary manslaughter.

[[The Blues Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 movies, 1980s criminal comedy movies, 1980s musical movies, 1980s road movies, American buddy movies, American criminal comedy movies, American musical comedy movies, American road movies, Chase movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois, Movies shot in Chicago, Illinois, Works about brothers, Universal Pictures movies, Movies directed by John Landis, United States National Film Registry movies

The Blues Brothers (Elwood Blues and Joliet "Jake" Blues) are fictional characters which became well known from the TV show Saturday Night Live.

Elwood Blues was first played by Dan Aykroyd, in his radio program on Blues music. Jake Blues was played by John Belushi.

In 1980, Aykroyd and Belushi starred in the movie called The Blues Brothers, playing again the same characters from TV.  Unfortunately, Belushi died only two years later, due to a drug overdose.  A sequel called Blues Brothers 2000 (1998) starred John Goodman as new partner to Dan Aykroyd but it was not as successful as the first movie.

Both movies were made by Universal Pictures.

[[Arnhem]]

CATEGORIES: Arnhem, Cities in the Netherlands, Settlements in Gelderland, Provincial capitals of the Netherlands

Arnhem is a city in the Netherlands. It is the capital of the eastern province Guelders (Gelderland). Arnhem has 159,265 citizens (as of 1 January 2019), the agglomeration 722,181 (Arnhem-Nijmegen conurbation). It is in the top-15 of largest cities in the Netherlands.

[[KNIL]]

CATEGORIES: Army, History of the Netherlands

KNIL is the abbreviation for a Dutch army. This army was in what is now called Indonesia. The official name is ''Koninklijk Nederlandsch-Indisch Leger (Royal Dutch-East Indies Army'')

Indonesia was a Dutch colony from 1800 to 1949. It was then called Nederlandsch Indië (Dutch East Indies). The KNIL taskforce was sent there to maintain order.

When Indonesia declared itself independent in 1945 the Dutch fought a war to keep the colony. This war was won by the Indonesians. The Dutch government accepted Indonesia's independence in 1949, and the KNIL ceased to exist.

[[Bronbeek]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in the Netherlands, Arnhem

Bronbeek is a former Royal palace in Arnhem, the Netherlands. It is now a museum and a home for elderly soldiers.

Bronbeek was built early 19th century. In 1845 the Dutch King William III bought Bronbeek. He donated it to the Dutch state in 1859. William wanted it to be a home for disabled KNIL soldiers. The inhabitants took their collections of 'souvenirs' with them. This turned into a museum about the Dutch East Indies.

In 2004 50 former soldiers have their home in Bronbeek.

[[David Bowie]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2016 deaths, Actors from London, Cancer deaths in New York City, David Bowie, Deaths from liver cancer, English movie actors, English rock singers, Musicians from London, Webby Award winners

David Robert Jones OAL (8 January 1947 – 10 January 2016), known professionally by his stage name David Bowie, was an English rock musician and actor.

[[1952]]

CATEGORIES: 1952

1952.

[[Benito Mussolini]]

CATEGORIES: 1883 births, 1945 deaths, Deaths by firearm in Italy, Former dictators, Former members of the Order of the Bath, Generals, Italian atheists, Italian military people, People executed by firearm, Politicians from Emilia-Romagna, Prime Ministers of Italy, World War II people

Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini KSMOM GCTE (29 July 1883 – 28 April 1945) was an Italian politician and journalist. He was also the Prime Minister of Italy from 1922 until 1943. He was the leader of the National Fascist Party.

[[Puppet state]]

CATEGORIES: Politics, Puppet states

A puppet state is a country that is officially independent but is not so in practice. Puppet governments are usually kept in power by military force provided by an occupying country.

It is a biased term and is used in criticizing the government of the alleged puppet state.

[[Banana republic]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A banana republic is a politically unstable country whose economy depends on the export of one product in limited supply, such as bananas or minerals. A banana republic has social classes that are divided by wealth. These include a large, poor working class and a small ruling class made up of the businessmen, politicians, and the military. The ruling class controls and exploits the country's economy.

[[Banana Republic]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 establishments in California, American clothing companies, Companies based in California

Banana Republic is a clothing and accessories retailer. The retailer is owned by Gap Inc.. The restaurant was created by both Mel and Patricia Ziegler in 1978. The first store they opened was a two-store safari and travel themed clothing company. Banana Republic was acquired by The Gap, Inc. in 1983 and was rebranded as a mainstream luxury clothing retailer.

Since the end of Q1 2011, there are 642 stores in operation in 32 countries, shipped to 20 countries through company owned websites, and they had the ability to ship to more than 50 countries through a 3rd party.

[[Kingdom of Holland]]

CATEGORIES: Puppet states, 19th century in the Netherlands

The Kingdom of Holland was a country that existed from 1806 to 1810. It was in Central and North Netherlands and East Friesland in Germany. It was a puppet state created by France. The king of Holland was Louis Bonaparte.

[[Victor Emmanuel III of Italy]]

CATEGORIES: 1869 births, 1947 deaths, Kings and Queens of Italy, World War II people, Princes and Princesses of Savoy

Victor Emmanuel III (11 November 1869 – 28 December 1947) was king of Italy from 29 July 1900 to 9 May 1946. He was the son and successor of King Umberto I. He was a member of the House of Savoy.

[[Alter ego]]

CATEGORIES: Latin words used in English, Psychology, Human behavior

An alter ego (from Latin, "other I") is another self — a second personality within a person. It is also called leading a double life. The term "alter ego" was first used in the 19th century. It was inventory by psychologists in talking about dissociative identity disorder.

For example, in The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, Mr. Hyde was Dr. Jekyll's evil alter ego (same person, different personalities).

[[Ziggy Stardust]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters, David Bowie

Ziggy Stardust is a fictional character. Ziggy was created and used by David Bowie, from 1970 to 1973.

Bowie used Ziggy Stardust as a second personality (alter ego). Ziggy appeared to be neither male nor female.

Ziggy's band was The Spiders From Mars. They recorded a couple of albums:

Ziggy's 'life' came to an end in a live concert at Hammersmith Odeon, on July 3, 1973. This show was in 1983 released in a movie: Ziggy Stardust - The Motion Picture. A 30th anniversary edition was released in 2003.

[[The Spiders from Mars]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, David Bowie

The Spiders from Mars was a Rock band from 1970 to 1973. It was a project from David Bowie. Bowie himself was the lead-singer. He created a secondary personality (alter ego) for this purpose: Ziggy Stardust. Ziggy's 'life' came to an end in a live concert at Hammersmith Odeon, on July 3, 1973. This show was in 1983 released in a movie: Ziggy Stardust - The Motion Picture. A re-release of this movie was in 2003: 30th Anniversary Edition.

Ziggy Stardust and The Spiders from Mars recorded a couple of albums:

[[Michael Schumacher]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Formula One drivers, Formula One current, German racecar drivers, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Michael Schumacher (born 3 January 1969 in Hürth, near Cologne) is a German Formula 1 driver. He is widely considered the greatest Formula 1 driver of all time. He has won seven world championship titles and has the most Grand Prix victories in the world. This champion, nicknamed campionissimo by Italian fans of Ferrari, is considered the most popular German personality in the world. Michael's younger brother Ralf is also a Formula 1 driver. When he was small, his father gave him a little kart. It had a small motor bike engine in it. He started getting interest from that time.

[[Yokohama]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kanagawa Prefecture, 19th century establishments in Japan

Yokohama  is a Japanese city in Kanagawa Prefecture on the island of Honshū.  

Yokohama is the capital of Kanagawa Prefecture in the Kantō region. Yokohama is a neighbor city of Tokyo. It has been the second largest city of Japan since the 1980s. 

Yokohama has an international trade seaport.  It is the largest port in Japan.  Many cars and machinery are exported from the port.  The downtown area is around the port. Today, the area of Yokohama city includes its former suburb areas like Hodogaya or Totsuka.

In Minato Mirai, there are a lot of places for sightseeing. For example, there are amusement parks and shopping malls.

Yokohama was an entrance for foreign cultures for a long time. Still today Yokohama has the largest Chinatown in Japan.

The airports nearest to Yokohama are Tokyo International Airport and Narita International Airport. 

Many educational institutes are located in Yokohama, including Yokohama National University and Yokohama City University.

[[Axis countries]]

CATEGORIES: World War II, Nazi Germany, 20th century in Japan, 20th century in Italy, Military alliances

Axis countries and Axis Powers are the names for some countries that fought together against the Allies during World War II.  The war ended in 1945 with the Axis powers losing and their alliances broken.

[[Axis]]

Axis means several things:

[[Icelandic language]]

CATEGORIES: Germanic languages, Languages of Europe

Icelandic is the language spoken by the people of Iceland.

It is a Germanic language. It comes from the Old Norse language, the language spoken by the Vikings. Because Iceland is far away from other countries, the language has not changed much. Icelandic people can still read words from hundreds of years ago.

Icelandic uses four characters that are not used in English: þ (thorn), (like 'th' in thin), ð (edh), (like 'th' in this), æ (pronounced like I) and ö (pronounced like the French U). It can also be said that ð is a "softer" version of þ.

Some linguists say there are only two Nordic languages, Eastern-Nordic and Western-Nordic, which includes Icelandic and Faroese because of their similarity.

Icelandic is also one of the most difficult languages to learn. 

[[Passu]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Kashmir, Villages in Pakistan, Gilgit-Baltistan

Passu is a small village by the Khunjerab River in Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan. It lies at an altitude of 2500m (8202.1 feet). The Batura and Passu glaciers and the Karakoram Highway are close to the village. The people speak the Wakhi language and follow the Ismaili sect of Islam. 

[[Equator]]

CATEGORIES: Lines of latitude

The equator is a line which is not real drawn around a sphere or planet, such as the Earth. It is one of the lines known as a line of latitude, or circle of latitude. The name "equator" is Latin for "even-maker"; at equator the day and night are exactly the same length around the year.

The equator is halfway between the North Pole and the South Pole. There, the surface of the planet is parallel to the axis of rotation. The equator divides the surface into the northern hemisphere and the southern hemisphere.

[[Rocket]]

CATEGORIES: Rockets, Ballistics

A rocket may be a missile, spacecraft, aircraft or other vehicle which is pushed by a rocket engine. Some big rockets are launch vehicles and some are manned (e.g. Saturn V). Other rockets, for example missiles, are unmanned.  ("Manned" means that a person is in it; "unmanned" means that the machine goes without a person.)

Most rockets can be launched from the ground because exhaust thrust from the engine is bigger than the weight of the vehicle on Earth. Some are used to bring satellites into orbit. Some rockets such as ion thrusters are too weak and heavy to lift themselves. They work after other rockets bring them to outer space.

The rocket was invented by the Chinese while using gunpowder. The first rockets were shaped like arrows and were not very fast. Most rockets still work by fire. The fire makes hot exhaust gases that expand and shoot out the back. This makes the rocket go forward.

Most rockets still use solid fuel to make the fire. The biggest ones use liquid fuel because it makes a hotter fire so the rocket is more powerful. However, handling the liquid fuel safely is difficult and expensive. Some satellite launch vehicles use both.

Rockets are also used for fireworks and weapons and to control moves in outer space.

Manned rockets, similar to other manned flying machines, are designed to limit their acceleration and vibration to protect the crew. Unmanned rockets however are not bound by the limits of humans.

Some rockets go faster than the speed of sound (1). Those that go into Low Earth orbit go 30000.

Yuri Gagarin was a Soviet cosmonaut who, on 12 April 1961, became the first human to fly into outer space. He was in the R-7 rocket launched by the Soviet Union.

[[Advisor]]

CATEGORIES: People

An advisor (or adviser) is someone who gives advice. (Someone who advises.) The job of an advisor is to give good advice that helps the person that he or she is advising. Usually, only certain people, like businessmen or politicians, have advisors. This is because these kinds of people are usually very busy, and they do not have the time to make decisions alone.

In the United States, the President's advisors are called his "Cabinet." Some well-known cabinet members, current and former, from the Bush Administration are:

[[MacOS]]

CATEGORIES: MacOS, Unix, BSD

macOS, formerly Mac OS X from 2001 to 2012 and OS X until 2016, is the name of an operating system for computers made by Apple Inc. These are called Macintosh computers, or Macs. It differs from other computers, as macOS is supposed to run only on Macs and not on other computers. However, people have made the OS run on computers that are not Macs. This is called Hackintosh and violates macOS' license agreement.

macOS first came out in 2001, and is completely different than the "classic" Mac OS that it replaced. Unlike that old (original) operating system, macOS (since OS X) is based on the Unix operating system (current versions have UNIX 03 certification) and on technologies developed between 1985 and 1997 at NeXT, a company that Apple co-founder Steve Jobs created after leaving Apple in 1985. The "X" in Mac OS X and OS X is the Roman numeral for the number 10 and is pronounced as such. The core of macOS is an open source OS called Darwin, but Darwin itself cannot run macOS software.

macOS releases are named after kinds of big cats, or California landmarks, and have a version number that starts with 10. The latest versions of macOS code name is macOS Big Sur (11.0).

[[Rendsburg]]

Rendsburg (Danish: Rendsborg) is a town in Schleswig-Holstein with 30,000 people.

[[Jacques Chirac]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2019 deaths, French criminals, Prime Ministers of France, French Roman Catholics, Mayors of Paris, Presidents of France, Princes of Andorra, Recipients of the Decoration for Services to the Republic of Austria

Jacques René Chirac (29 November 1932 – 26 September 2019) was a French politician who served as President of the French Republic and ex officio Co-Prince of Andorra from 1995 to 2007. He was re-elected in 2002. Before that, he was Prime Minister of France twice, and Mayor of Paris from 1977 to 1995.

[[Mario Jeckle]]

CATEGORIES: German computer scientists, 1974 births, 2004 deaths

Mario Jeckle (25 August 1974 – 11 June 2004) was a German computer scientist.

From 1997 to 2003, Jeckle attended the University of Applied Science in Augsburg.  In 1998, he received his computer science degree for his thesis (paper) "Prozeßkettenmodellierung am Beispiel der Gießwerkzeugentwicklung und prototypische Implementierung auf Basis des EDM/PDM - Systems Metaphase" (An example of process chain modelling in  casting tool development and prototype implementation on basis of the EDM/PDM - Systems Metaphase). At Augsburg, he taught Java, Java Threads, XML and software engineering.

In 2003, Jeckle became a professor at the University of Applied Sciences in Furtwangen.  He taught about XML, databases, software engineering, and "eBusiness" (electronic business). 

Jeckle was also a W3C and OMG representative of DaimlerChrysler Research and developed technical standards for XML, UML 2.0, and others.  At the beginning of 2004, he was a member of the Technical Architecture Group of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). Jeckle was also an author of books and a well-known speaker at conferences and seminars (information groups).

Jeckle was a member of the International Red Cross.  On 11 June 2004, he died while giving aid to others who had a car accident on a German highway. While helping, another driver lost control and hit Jeckle and another man. 

[[Eighty Years' War]]

CATEGORIES: Eighty Years' War, Wars involving England, Wars involving France, Wars involving the Netherlands, Wars involving Spain, 1568, 16th century in Europe, 1648, 17th century in Europe

The Eighty Years' War, also called Dutch Revolt, was a war between the Netherlands and Spain. It lasted from 1568 to 1648 but was interrupted by a truce between 1609 and 1621. The Peace of Westphalia ended the war. The Netherlands achieved independence in the Eighty Years' War.

[[Exponent]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In mathematics, an exponent indicates how many copies of a number (known as the base) is multiplied together. 

Exponents are used in algebra. Exponentiation is a way of shortening the process/equation of repeatedly multiplying many copies of a number. 

There are some basic rules used in exponentiation

1. Product Rule:

Since exponentiation is simply repeated multiplication of a base term, we get that: 

2. Quotient Rule:

By grouping the corresponding a’s, we get:

Since corresponding a’s become 1, we are then left with

For more information on negative exponents, see § Negative exponents below.

3. Zero Rule:

[[Moresnet]]

CATEGORIES: 1816 establishments in Europe, 1920 disestablishments in Europe, 19th century in Germany, Former countries in Europe, German Empire, History of Belgium, Liège (province), States and territories disestablished in the 20th century, States and territories established in the 19th century, Wallonia, Weimar Republic

Moresnet or Neutral Moresnet (Neŭtra Moresneto) was a very small territory that existed from 1816 to 1919. It had a size of 3.5 km². It existed because its neighbours could not agree on who should own it, so they decided to make it a neutral territory where both neighbours would both have power. It was 7 km Southwest of Aix-la-Chapelle (Germany), and south of the points were the borders of Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands come together on the Vaalserberg.

[[MacGyver]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s American television series, 1985 American television series debuts, 1990s American television series, 1992 American television series endings, 1992 television series endings, Action television series, Spy television series, English-language television programs

MacGyver was an American television series.  It was first shown in September 1985 on the television network, ABC. The main character, Angus MacGyver (played by Richard Dean Anderson), often prevented inevitable defeats, saved lives, distracted enemies, made weapons, and even performed everyday tasks usually using very few objects that seemed irrelevant or abnormal to use in such situations. His use of duct tape has led some parts of the world to call it "MacGyver tape."

The term "MacGyver" now means someone who is able to perform amazing feats with the use of very few and often irrelevant objects.

[[December 22]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[December 24]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Quark]]

CATEGORIES: Quarks

thumb|300px|Six of the particles in the Standard Model are quarks (shown in purple). Each of the first three columns forms a generation of matter.|alt=A four-by-four table of particles. Columns are three generations of matter (fermions) and one of forces (bosons). In the first three columns, two rows contain quarks and two leptons. The top two rows' columns contain up (u) and down (d) quarks, charm (c) and strange (s) quarks, top (t) and bottom (b) quarks, and photon (γ) and gluon (g), respectively. The bottom two rows' columns contain electron neutrino (ν sub e) and electron (e), muon neutrino (ν sub μ) and muon (μ), and tau neutrino (ν sub τ) and tau (τ), and Z sup 0 and W sup ± weak force. Mass, charge, and spin are listed for each particle.A quark is an elementary particle which makes up hadrons, the most stable of which are protons and neutrons. Atoms are made of protons, neutrons and electrons. It was once thought that all three of those were fundamental particles, which cannot be broken up into anything smaller, but after the invention of the particle accelerator, it was discovered that electrons are fundamental particles, but neutrons and protons are not. Neutrons and protons are made up of quarks, which are held together by gluons.

There are six types of quarks. The types are called flavours. The flavours are up (u), down (d), strange (s), charm (c), top (t), and bottom (b). Up, charm and top quarks have a charge of +2, while down, strange and bottom quarks have a charge of -1. Each quark has a matching antiquark. Antiquarks have a charge opposite to that of their quarks; meaning that up, charm and top antiquarks have a charge of -2 and down, strange and bottom antiquarks have a charge of +1.

Only up and down quarks are found inside atoms of normal matter. Two up quarks and one down make a proton (2 + 2 - 1 = +1 charge) while two down quarks and one up make a neutron (2 - 1 - 1 = 0 charge). The other four flavours are not seen naturally on Earth, but they can be made in particle accelerators. Some of them may also exist inside of stars.

When two or more quarks are held together by the strong nuclear force, the particle formed is called a hadron. Quarks that make the quantum number of hadrons are named 'valence quarks'. The two families of hadrons are baryons (made of three valence quarks) and mesons (which are made from a quark and an antiquark). Some examples of baryons are protons and nuetrons, and examples of mesons are pions and kaons.

When quarks are stretched farther and farther, the force that holds them together becomes bigger. When it comes to the point when quarks are separated, they form two sets of quarks, because the energy that is put into trying to separate them is enough to form two new quarks.

Quarks also have color charge and react via the weak force. For baryons, each quark is green, red or blue. One can be one color at one time. For mesons, the quark is red, green or blue and the antiquark is antired (cyan), antiblue (yellow) or antigreen (pink). Quarks can change color by emitting a W boson. For example, if a green color-chrged quark emits an red-antigreen W boson to a red quark, the green quark will become red and the red quark will become green. Therefore, W bosons along with Z bosons (which mediate the weak force for neutrinos) help particles react via the weak interaction.

This also causes the beta and beta-plus decay of atoms where a neutron decays into a proton, electron and electron antineutrino and makes a proton turn into a neutron, positron and electron neutrino.

The idea (or model) for quarks was proposed by physicists Murray Gell-Mann and George Zweig in 1964. Other scientists began searching for evidence of quarks, and succeeded later in 1968.

[[Northern Hemisphere]]

CATEGORIES: Hemispheres

The Northern Hemisphere is the part of the planet that is north of the equator. It has about 90 percent of the world's population and most of the world's land. All of North America and Europe are in the Northern Hemisphere. Most of Asia, two-thirds of Africa and 10 percent of South America are also in this hemisphere. The three largest countries by population; China, India, and the United States, are in the Northern Hemisphere.

[[Yesterday]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Yesterday might mean:

[[Messiah]]

CATEGORIES: Christology, Islamic theology, Judaism, Jesus Christ

Messiah or  the Anointed One is the figure promised by God to the Jews for the salvation of the world. The Jews think that the Messiah will be a human being that will save Israel and lead the whole world into the End Of Days and eternal peace.

Other people in real life or fiction are called messianic if they have the qualities of a messiah, or people think they will bring about a better world.

[[César Chávez]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1993 deaths, People from California, American labor leaders, Nonviolence advocates, People from Arizona, Recipients of the Order of the Aztec Eagle

Cesar Chavez (born César Estrada Chávez (March 31, 1927spaced ndashApril 23, 1993) was an American farmworker, labor leader and civil rights activist. Chávez started the National Farm Workers Association (NFWA) along with Dolores Huerta. He wanted equal rights for Mexicans working in the United States.  This union became the United Farm Workers. He led a boycott against grape companies to gain rights for workers. Chávez used nonviolence to make these changes.  Chavez is thought of as one of the leaders in the movement for Chicanos to gain more rights in the late-20th century.

[[Hamilton, Ontario]]

CATEGORIES: Hamilton, Ontario

Hamilton is a medium-sized city in the Canadian province of Ontario.

[[Shape]]

CATEGORIES: Shapes

A shape is a geometric figure that can be described with mathematics. One way to classify shapes is to describe a bigger kind of shape that the shape is one of. For example, they can be classified by their different numbers of dimensions. Thus, circles are two-dimensional shapes so, like other 2D shapes, they will fit into a flat plane.

Three-dimensional objects like cubes will not fit inside a plane, because they are not flat. Four-dimensional shapes made of polygons are called polychorons, and shapes made of polygons of any dimension are polytopes.

Two shapes are said to be equal, if one can be changed into the other by turning, moving, growing, shrinking, or more than one of these in combination. Geometry is one of the practical sections of mathematics which involves various shapes and sizes of different figures and their properties.

[[Quechua]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of South America, Inca civilization

Quechua, sometimes written Quichua or Ketchua, is a language spoken by 8 million people in the South American nations of Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, Argentina and Colombia. It was also the language of the ancient Inca Empire. It's part of the Quechuan languages family.

It is the most-spoken Native American language in South America. It is also the most widely-spoken indigenous language. A quarter of people in Peru speak Quechua. People who speak Quechua as their first language are called Quechua Indians by Spanish-speakers. However, the Quechua refer to themselves as Runa ("the people") and call their language Runa Simi.

Quechua has only three vowel sounds: a, i, and u.

Quechua has given names to many places in Peru, including the Ancash Region. Anqash is the Quechua word for blue, and it is thought that the name refers to the region's blue skies.

[[Drinking water]]

CATEGORIES: Water infrastructure

Drinking water, also known as potable water, is water that is safe to drink or to use for food preparation.

Water in rivers, stream, lakes and underground may contain organisms that cause disease. It may also contain chemicals that might cause illness.

'Water treatment'  involves filtering the water through sand beds and then adding a chemical to kill any remaining organisms.

The amount of drinking water needed for good health varies. Americans, on average, drink one litre of water per day and 95% drink less than three litres per day. For those who work in a hot climate, up to 16 litres a day may be required. Liquid water is essential for life.

In developed countries, tap water meets drinking water quality standards. Other uses include washing, toilets, and irrigation. Greywater (wastewater) may be used for toilets or irrigation. Using greywater for irrigation may have risks. Water may be unacceptable if it has high levels of toxins or suspended solids.

[[Pen]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Writing tools

A pen (Latin: pinna, feather) is a tool used for writing or drawing. The ink of the pen is pressed onto paper and dries very fast.

Reed pens are the oldest known type of pen. They were made from reeds growing in the delta of the Nile. The ancient Egyptians invented them, and also invented black ink, using soot and gum arabic. Their pens had split nibs to regulated the flow of ink to the writing tip. This simple design is still used in calligraphy today.

Quill pens are one of the oldest type of pens.  A quill pen is the feather of a bird, usually a goose.  The end of the feather (the quill) was kept very sharp and had to be dipped into ink after every few words.

Reed and quill pens are dip pens because they have to be dipped in ink many times during writing or drawing. Modern dip pens have nibs made of metal.

Fountain pens are like dip pens, but can hold enough ink inside to write several pages before being refilled. Inside, the ink is held in a sac or cartridge. 

A ballpoint pen is generally cylindrical plastic shaft that holds ink and is smaller than a fountain pen. It has a small hard ball on the writing end that rolls the ink onto the paper.

A stylus is a pen that cannot write on paper, but can write on clay or wax. Styli of wood or metal have been used for thousands of years, for example in cuneiform writing. A modern computer stylus is usually made of plastic and may have electronics inside. It is used with a touchscreen.

The coming of the personal computer much reduced the need to write on paper. All the same, a personally written letter  suggests "I think so much of you that I took the effort to write a real letter."

[[Leet]]

CATEGORIES: Internet, Slang, Encodings

Leet (sometimes written as "1337" or "l33t"), also known as eleet or leet-speak, is another alphabet for the English language that is used mostly on the internet. It uses various combinations of ASCII characters to replace Latinate letters. For example, leet spellings of the word leet include 1337 and l33t; eleet may be spelled 31337 or 3l33t. It is used on the internet in forums, chat rooms and online games.

Leet is mostly used for English, but can also be used with other languages including French, Spanish and German.

[[Waterfall]]

CATEGORIES: Waterfalls

A waterfall is a place where water rushes down a steep ledge. The water flows from higher land, then it falls down a big step of rock to lower land of softer rock where it will continue on its journey. Usually the lower land is in a gorge. Waterfalls are usually made when a river is young, in places where softer rock is underneath harder rock in the waterfalls

Many people choose them as sacred spots.  The roar from a big waterfall is very loud. Some people think it is beautiful music and that a waterfall is one of the most beautiful things in nature.

The highest waterfall in the world is Angel Falls in Venezuela where the water falls 979.

[[Garden]]

CATEGORIES: Gardens, Plants, Basic English 850 words

A garden is usually a piece of land that is used for growing flowers, trees, shrubs, and other plants. The act of caring for a garden by watering the flowers and plants and removing the weeds is called gardening.

[[Great Zimbabwe]]

CATEGORIES: History of Zimbabwe, Cities in Zimbabwe, World Heritage Sites in Africa, Prehistoric Africa, 11th-century establishments in Africa, 15th-century disestablishments

Great Zimbabwe is a ruined city in the south-eastern hills of Zimbabwe. The site is not far from the country's border with Mozambique, which is in the southeast of the African continent.

Greater Zimbabwe was the capital of the Kingdom of Zimbabwe during the country’s later Iron Age. The monument first began to be built in the 11th century, and work continued until the 14th century. It covered an area of  722 hectares (1,780 acres) which might have housed up to 18,000 people. It was a royal city for the Zimbabwean monarch. One of its most prominent features were its walls, some of which were over five metres high and which were constructed without mortar. Eventually the city was abandoned and fell into ruin.

The Kingdom of Zimbabwe included the River Zambezi in the north, the Transvaal in the south and Botswana in the east. The people who lived at Great Zimbabwe controlled trade between the coast and inland Africa. The modern country of Zimbabwe is named after it.

Archaeologists have found goods from as far as China that were used by the people. This shows they bought and sold things over great distances. The city had stopped growing when traders from Portugal came to southern Africa 500 years ago, but nobody is sure why this happened. Europeans at first thought that Great Zimbabwe had been built by foreigners. Now we know it was built by the local people. People who have studied the site have learned much about old Africa.

The earliest known written mention of the ruins was in 1531 by Vicente Pegado, Captain of the Portuguese garrison of Sofala, who recorded it as Symbaoe. The first visits by Europeans were in the late 19th century, with investigations of the site starting in 1871.

[[Machu Picchu]]

CATEGORIES: Inca civilization, World Heritage Sites in South America, 1450s establishments, Establishments in Peru, 1572 disestablishments, 16th century disestablishments in South America

(Machu Picchu is a pre-Columbian 15th-century Inca site in Peru, in South America.

The Incas built the city on a mountain ridge, 2430m above sea level. They lived there between 1200 and 1450 AD. Other people lived there before about 650 AD. 

The Incas built houses, fields and temples by cutting the rock on the mountain so it was flat. They built an Observatory to look at the stars).

When the Spanish invaded Peru, the Incas left Machu Picchu. Nobody knows for sure why they did that, but some think it was because of diseases from Europe. The city was left unfinished, most likely due to the Spanish invasion and/or a civil war between the ruling rival Inca brothers named Huascar and Atahualpa. The Spanish never found Machu Picchu or the lost city during their occupation.

(Machu Picchu is very difficult to get to because it is so high in the mountains. It has only one way in and a stone wall to protect it. Most people on Earth did not know it was there until a Yale graduate named Hiram Bingham rediscovered it in 1911). He heard rumours of a hidden city which was already known to the native Peruvians, who guided him there. He led a restoration project that was partly funded by the National Geographic Society. Bingham made a deal with the government to take artifacts to the Peabody Museum for study. Peru is still trying to have those artifacts returned to them.

(Machu Picchu was declared a Peruvian Historical Sanctuary in 1981 and a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1983. In 2007, Machu Picchu was voted one of the New Seven Wonders of the World in a worldwide Internet poll).

(Today, there is a new road so that tourists can visit. People can also walk along the Inca Trail, or take a train from Cusco.) 

[[Apple Inc.]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 establishments in California, Apple Inc., Steve Jobs

Apple Inc. is a multinational company that makes personal computers (the Macintoshes), software (macOS, iOS, watchOS and tvOS), and mobile devices (iPod, iPhone and iPad) like music players. Apple calls its computers Macintoshes or Macs, and it calls its laptops MacBooks. Their line of mobile music players is called iPod, their smartphone line is called iPhone and their tablet line is called iPad. Apple sells their products all around the world. Apple Inc. used to be called Apple Computer, Inc., but Apple changed their name after introducing the original iPhone.

Apple Inc. is a public company and trades on the NASDAQ under the stock ticker AAPL. On March 19, 2015, it became one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average.

[[Soil]]

CATEGORIES: Ecology, Geology, Natural resources, Soil

Soil is loose material which lies on top of the land. It has many things in it, like tiny grains of rock, minerals, water and air. Soil also has living things and dead things in it: "organic matter". Soil is important for life on Earth.  

Because soil holds water and nutrients, it is an ideal place for plants to grow. Soil holds the roots, and lets plants stand above the ground to collect the light they need to live. Almost as important are the fungi. There are fungi which grow into plant roots, a symbiosis known as mycorrhiza. This helps trees grow. There are many other fungi that live by breaking down dead organic material: the remains of other living things. The broken down material is a main source of plant nutrients.

Many animals dig into the soil and make the soil their home. The large animals use soil to make dens for sleeping and giving birth. The small animals live most of their life in the soil. Earthworms are famous for improving soil. This is because the holes they make let air go into the soil. The holes also let water go through.

The soil also has many microorganisms living in it. Many of them eat the organic material in the soil. They use oxygen and release carbon dioxide. They also release mineral nutrients into the soil.

Soil is different in different places on Earth. This is because the climate and rocks in the Earth are different in different places on Earth. Soils are usually thicker in places where ice sheets covered the ground during the Pleistocene ice ages. This is because the ice sheets ground the rock into powder as they slowly moved over the surface.

[[Organic]]

The word organic is used for different things:

[[3D]]

CATEGORIES: Computing, Animation, Mathematics

3D (or 3-D) means three-dimensional, or having three dimensions. For example, a box is three-dimensional; it is solid, and not thin like a piece of paper. It has volume, a top and bottom, left and right (sides), as well as a front and back. You can turn the box around to view it from another side (called a face, surface or simply side).

A dimension is measurable in inches, microns, miles, kilometers, or any other unit of length.

The three dimensions are often called length (or depth), width (or breadth), and height. Some purposes use other words. 

3D graphics are used to make video games or animated movies.  Many calculations are needed to make pictures seem three-dimensional on a screen.  Modern computers usually have a GPU (Graphics Processing Unit) to handle these calculations.

Binocular vision helps people to see the third dimension easily.

[[Humidity]]

CATEGORIES: Meteorology, Weather measurements

Humidity means water vapor in the air, but not to liquid droplets in fog, clouds, or rain.  Deserts usually have low humidity, and tropical regions have high humidity. The word "humid" often means that the humidity is high, which gives the feeling of being very damp (wet air), stuffy, or even sweltering when the temperature is also high. When the humidity is low, the air can be said to be "not humid" or "dry."

Higher humidity reduces the effectiveness of sweating in cooling the body by reducing the rate of evaporation of moisture from the skin.

The term "relative humidity" is used to note the amount of humidity as a percent, from 0-100%. Meteorologists use  hygrometers to measure the humidity in the air.

Humidity affects the rate of evaporation. With a higher humidity, the rate of evaporation is less.

[[Calabi-Yau manifold]]

CATEGORIES: Algebra, Geometry

[[Quantum mechanics]]

CATEGORIES: Basic physics ideas, Mechanics, Nuclear physics, Quantum mechanics

Quantum mechanics explains how the universe works at a scale smaller than atoms.  It is also called quantum physics or quantum theory. Mechanics is the part of physics that explains how things move and quantum is the Latin word for 'how much'. A quantum of energy is the least amount possible (or the least extra amount), and quantum mechanics describes how that energy moves or interacts.

Atoms used to be considered the smallest building blocks of matter, but modern science has shown that there are even smaller particles, like protons, neutrons and electrons. Quantum mechanics describes how the particles that make up atoms work.

Quantum mechanics also tells us how electromagnetic waves (like light) work. Wave–particle duality means that particles behave like waves and waves behave like particles. (They are not two kinds of thing, they are something like both: this is their duality.) Much of modern physics and chemistry can be described and understood using the mathematical rules of quantum mechanics.

The mathematics used to study subatomic particles and electromagnetic waves is very complex because they act in very strange ways.

[[Duisburg]]

CATEGORIES: Imperial free cities, Urban districts in Regierungsbezirk Düsseldorf, Duisburg

Duisburg (ˈdyːsbʊʁk; Westphalian: Duisborg, Ripuarian: Duisburch, Low Franconian: Duusbörg) is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It is where the Rhine and the Ruhr rivers meet. About 500,000 people live in Duisburg.

[[Kuopio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Finland, Municipalities of Northern Savonia

Kuopio is a city in Northern Savonia, Finland. It is the biggest city and cultural center of Eastern Finland. In November 2015 the population was about 112.000. It is the 8th biggest city in Finland. 

The city is surrounded by lake Kallavesi. Many parts of the city are built on islands. Kuopio has always been a city of education. Two important schools are the University of Eastern Finland and the Savonia University of Applied Sciences.

[[Hammer]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Tools

A hammer is a tool for putting nails into objects such as wood. It has a long handle, and a tip with a flat end for hitting nails. The most common type of hammer (sometimes called a claw hammer) has a curved end (on the other side of the hitting end) for pulling nails out.

A sledgehammer is a hammer that has a longer shaft, and a more massive head. The user can swing it with two hands and apply more force. 

[[Feces]]

CATEGORIES: Digestive system

Feces (or faeces), also called poo (generally British English), poop, shit, dookie, stool,  or number 2 is the body's solid waste left over from eating food. Human feces leave the intestinal tract and are removed from the body through the anus. Feces are known for their unpleasant odor. The color, which can range from dark green through brown (the most common color) to bright yellow, depends on a lot of different things; for example, different foods can change the color of feces, as can some illnesses, like diarrhea. The consistency of feces changes too. In humans it is measured using the Bristol stool scale, a system for separating feces into 7 different types. It is used for medical diagnosis.

Although feces are generally thought to be waste, they actually have many uses. Feces are used by some scientists to follow animal populations. Feces from animals and humans can be used to create fertilizers for plant crops. Some feces are also used as a fuel for fires.

In informal language, there are many words for feces. These are often offensive or even vulgar. Examples include "shit", "poop", and "crap".

[[Catholicism]]

CATEGORIES: Catholicism

Catholic ChurchCatholic Church

Catholicism is the traditions and beliefs of Catholic Churches. It refers to their theology, liturgy, morals and spirituality. The term usually refers to churches, both western and eastern, that are in full communion with the Holy See.

In 2012, there were more than 1.1 billion Catholics worldwide. This makes up more than 17% of the world population.

The word "Catholicism" comes from the Greek word catholikismos (καθολικισμός). This means "according to the whole".

[[Nail]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Hardware (mechanical)

A nail is a metal object with a flat head and a long, sharp tip. A hammer or nail gun is used to put it into another object. It is often used to join two objects together.

The history of the nail came in three periods:

Nails date back at least to Ancient Egypt – bronze nails found in Egypt have been dated 3400 BC. The Bible has references to nails. King David gave iron to make nails for what would become Solomon's Temple.

The Romans made extensive use of nails. The Roman army left behind seven tons of nails when it evacuated the fortress of Inchtuthil in Perthshire, Scotland, in 86 or 87 AD.

[[Dictatorship]]

CATEGORIES: Forms of government

A dictatorship is a form of government, where one person effectively has all the power to run a country. In very few cases, a small group of people holds this power. This person is called a dictator.   A dictatorship that is ruled by soldiers is called a military dictatorship or junta.  An absolute monarchy (the system where there are Kings and Queens who have full power over their country) can be considered to be a dictatorship, but the people are usually not called dictators. 

Roman dictators were temporary rulers appointed to protect the state during a war or other emergency.  Many countries have laws that allow a similarly time-limited dictatorship, to fight against such problems. Karl Marx has the idea of the Dictatorship of the proletariat. When they became independent in the 1960s and 1970s, many African states changed to be dictatorships, run by one person. Karl Popper distinguished between two different forms of government, "Those where it is possible to change the government without bloodshed, in a popular vote,  and those where it isn't." He said that this was the key difference, and not how the forms of government are named. 

Dictators often come to power in times of difficulty, such as massive unemployment, inflation, and unrest among the population. Dictators are normally backed by powerful groups, such as landowners, private company owners, bank owners and in some cases institutions like the Roman Catholic Church to put in place law and order by force. This force may be directed at the poorer parts of society, such as unemployed workers, ethnic minorities, working class areas and shanty towns. Examples of this are the dictatorships in Latin America and the prosecution of the Jewish community in 1940s Germany.

Dictators normally need to do a number of things to put in place their dictatorships: they need to get rid of their opponents (which may be political or religious) - some are imprisoned, exiled (sent outside their country) or killed. Dictators will then need to prohibit (or not allow) political parties that oppose their rule. They will confiscate the political parties' property or offices and such things. Dictators may suppress or persecute some religious groups or institutions. Dictators will also need to undo or close down democratic institutions such as parliament and in some cases the congress. 

Some social organizations, such as civil rights groups, human rights organisations, legal aid centers, students' unions, teachers' federations, trade or workers unions are also undone and those who persist with such activities may be killed.  Dictators often rewrite an existing constitution or put in place a completely new one.  This makes their power constitutional (which then cannot be disputed).  Dictators then maintain their rule with state terrorism, which normally involves a secret police, death squads, random or night curfew, indefinite arrest without trial and a network of torture centers and concentration camps.  Some dictatorships create a fictional (or non existent) internal (inside their country) enemy which they claim to be at war with to justify (give reason for) their use of much military violence against their people. 

[[Electricity]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Electricity

Electricity is the presence and flow of electric charge. Using electricity we can transfer energy in ways that allow us to do simple chores. Its best-known form is the flow of electrons through conductors such as copper wires. 

The word "electricity" is sometimes used to mean "electrical energy".  They are not the same thing: electricity is a transmission medium for electrical energy, like sea water is a transmission medium for wave energy.  An item which allows electricity to move through it is called a conductor.  Copper wires and other metal items are good conductors, allowing electricity to move through them and transmit electrical energy.  Plastic is a bad conductor (also called an insulator) and doesn’t allow much electricity to move through it so it will stop the transmission of electrical energy.

Transmission of electrical energy can happen naturally (such as lightning), or be made by people (such as in a generator). It can be used to power machines and electrical devices.  When electrical charges are not moving, electricity is called static electricity.  When the charges are moving they are an electric current, sometimes called 'dynamic electricity'. Lightning is the most known - and dangerous - kind of electric current in nature, but sometimes static electricity causes things to stick together in nature as well.

Electricity can be dangerous, especially around water because water is a form of good conductor as it has impurities like salt in it. Salt can help electricity flow. Since the nineteenth century, electricity has been used in every part of our lives. Until then, it was just a curiosity seen in the lightning of a thunderstorm.

Electrical energy can be created if a magnet passes close to a metal wire. This is the method used by a generator. The biggest generators are in power stations.  Electrical energy can also be released by combining chemicals in a jar with two different kinds of metal rods. This is the method used in a battery. Static electricity can be created through the friction between two materials - for instance a wool cap and a plastic ruler. This may make a spark. Electrical energy can also be created using energy from the sun, as in photovoltaic cells.    

Electrical energy arrives at homes through wires from the places where it is made. It is used by electric lamps, electric heaters, etc. Many appliances such as washing machines and electric cookers use electricity. In factories, electrical energy powers machines. People who deal with electricity and electrical devices in our homes and factories are called "electricians".

[[Sailor Moon]]

CATEGORIES: Manga, Anime, Animated television series, 1995 television series debuts, 2000 television series endings

Pretty Soldier Sailor Moon or Sailor Moon is a shojo manga by Naoko Takeuchi. It was adapted to an anime series by Toei Animation CO., LTD. Sailor Moon was one of the most popular anime/manga series during the 1990s, spanning five seasons, four movies, and multiple video games. It continues to hold a strong fanbase with many fansites devoted to it. 

[[Anesthetic]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs, Pain

An anesthetic or anaesthetic is a substance that stops pain.  It makes people either stop hurting, or go completely to sleep during surgery.  Anesthetic can be rubbed onto the skin, given by injection ("shot"), or given as a gas to breathe.  The use of an anesthetic is called anaesthesia.  Anaesthesia blocks the pain during operations.  This lets patients undergo surgery and other procedures without the distress and pain they would normally feel.  It comes from Greek roots an-, "without" and aesthetos, "perceptible, able to feel".

The modern anesthetic was created by Joseph Lister.  Before it, people sometimes used cocaine, alcohol, and other drugs. Modern anaesthesia is highly complex and often involves a combination of anaesthesia, analgesia and muscle relaxation to enable physicians to do their part. These three tasks are known as the triad of anaesthesia.

[[Fidel Castro]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2016 deaths, Communist politicians, Cuban military people, Fidel Castro, Presidents of Cuba, Prime ministers, Socialists, People excommunicated by the Catholic Church

Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz ( audio) (August 13, 1926 – November 25, 2016) was a Cuban revolutionary and politician. He was Prime Minister of Cuba from 1959 to 1976, and President from 1976 to 2008. He temporarily gave power to his brother Raúl Castro while recovering from surgery in summer of 2006. On February 19, 2008, he announced that he would not return to power. He was in power for 49 years.

[[Latin America]]

CATEGORIES: North America, South America

Latin America is a region of the Americas consisting of countries where the people speak Romance languages (languages that came from Vulgar Latin).

People do not completely agree as to which countries are in Latin America, but in most cases, it is made up of the parts where Spanish and Portuguese are spoken. This includes most of South America and Central America (sometimes also the Caribbean islands), and also Mexico in North America.

Others consider the places in the Americas (except those in Canada and the United States) which speak French to be part of Latin America, because it is also a Romance language.

Latin America has vibrant artistic and cultural traditions.  Latin American literature, music, and arts are world famous.

[[Washington, D.C.]]

CATEGORIES: Washington, D.C., United States capital cities, 1790 establishments in the United States

Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district. The President of the USA and many major national government offices are in the territory. This makes it the political center of the United States of America.

Washington was named after the first U.S. President George Washington. "D.C." stands for "District of Columbia". At first, it was made up of a piece from Virginia south of the Potomac River and a piece from Maryland north of the Potomac River. In 1847, Virginia's piece was returned to it, and is now Arlington County and part of the city of Alexandria. Since 1847, all of the District of Columbia is on the north side of the Potomac River. The District of Columbia used to have other small towns which used "D.C.".

Since 1800, The District of Columbia has been the home of all three branches of the U.S. government: Congress, the President, and the Supreme Court. All of the major political parties are based here. It is also the headquarters of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the Organization of American States (OAS). Because it is the home of the President and is important to American politics, many groups often hold large demonstrations and protests here. These are often at the National Mall, a large open park which has many monuments and museums. The District of Columbia’s many museums and monuments make it a popular place for tourists to visit.

In 2005, the United States Census Bureau showed that 582,049 people resided within the District of Columbia.

[[President of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the United States

The President of the United States of America (POTUS) is the head of state and head of government of the United States of America and the commander in chief of the United States Armed Forces. The president is the head of the executive branch of the federal government of the United States and is the chairman of the US cabinet.

Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms in office, and is counted as the nation's 22nd and 24th president. There are currently five living former presidents. The most recent death of a former president was the death of George H. W. Bush on November 30, 2018. He was also the most recently serving president to die. 

On November 7, 2020, Joe Biden was elected to be the 46th president of the United States. He was formally inaugurated on January 20, 2021.

[[1948]]

CATEGORIES: 1948

[[1949]]

CATEGORIES: 1949

[[1950]]

CATEGORIES: 1950

1950.

[[J. R. R. Tolkien]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1973 deaths, J. R. R. Tolkien, Academics of the University of Oxford, Bloemfontein, British academics, Deaths from pneumonia, English novelists

John Ronald Reuel Tolkien (3 January 1892 – 2 September 1973) was a British philologist, university professor, and writer. Tolkien is best known for his most famous works, The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings.

[[Adolescence]]

CATEGORIES: Childhood

Adolescence is the time between being a child and a mature adult, that is the period of time during which a person grows into an adult, but are emotionally not mature. Adolescence in the English speaking world usually corresponds to the teenager years of 13-19 which are so named because of the end of the English words "thirteen" to "nineteen".  

The ages when one is no longer a child, and when one becomes an adult, vary by culture. In many cultures they are marked by rites of passage. The word comes from the  Latin verb adolescere meaning "to grow up." During this time, a person's body, emotions and academic standing change a lot. When adolescence starts, in America, children usually finish elementary school and enter secondary education, such as middle school or high school.

During this period of life, most children go through the physical stages of puberty, which can often begin before a person has reached the age of 13. Most cultures think of people as becoming adults at various ages of the teenage years. For example, Jewish tradition thinks that people are adults at age 13, and this change is celebrated in the Bar Mitzvah (for boys) and the Bat Mitzvah (for girls) ceremony. Usually, there is a formal age of majority when adolescents formally (under the law) become adults.

[[KDE]]

CATEGORIES: KDE

KDE is a community that produces free software, including a desktop environment called KDE Plasma for operating systems based on Linux or UNIX. This replaces the console, which is simply a black screen with text on it. KDE Plasma is a popular piece of software for users of Linux and UNIX.

Plasma runs on top of the X Window System, which runs on top of any UNIX-like operating systems like Linux and Mac OS X. 

Since KDE SC 4.0, many KDE programs also runs on Microsoft Windows.

[[UK Independence Party]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 establishments in the United Kingdom, Political parties in the United Kingdom, Nationalist organisations in the United Kingdom, Eurosceptic parties, Brexit

The United Kingdom Independence Party (often called UKIP, said "you-kipp") is a political party in the United Kingdom. Its policies promote conservatism, national conservatism, and Euroscepticism. Their main policy is for the UK to leave the European Union.

The party was founded in 1993, and they first won seats in the European Parliament in 1999. They won 3 seats in 1999, which was increased to 12 in 2004 and 13 in 2009. It is now 9. The party does not do well under Britain's 'First-past-the-post' system of elections and only has one seat in the British House of Commons, although they received 3.8 million votes (12.6% of the total vote) at the 2015 UK general election.

Supporters of UKIP mostly believe in the following things:

In 2008 UKIP banned people who used to be members of the British National Party (BNP) from joining.

On 9 October 2014 Douglas Carswell became UKIP's first elected MP. Carswell quit the party in March 2017.

[[Space Oddity]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 albums, Rock albums, Folk albums, David Bowie

David Bowie's first big hit record was the single "Space Oddity" in 1969. This album though only really sold well when he became more famous in 1973. Many of the songs are very melodic, with good tunes, and are unusual.

The songs on this album are:

[[Saxophone]]

CATEGORIES: Woodwind instruments, Jazz instruments

A saxophone is a family of musical instruments that are made of brass. These are often just called a "sax".  It has seven main keys, including the octave key.  Because it is made from brass it is often included in the brass section alongside true brass instruments like the trumpet or trombone.  However, it is not a true brass instrument but a member of the woodwind family of instruments because it has a reed. It was developed from the clarinet and shares many similarities to the clarinet. The player blows into a reed fitted into the mouthpiece of the instrument. Adolf Sax creates the instrument, but at first, it was heavily disliked because he boasted about it. Conductors  would not add it to their orchestras because of the horrible reputations it had because of Adolf Sax. It started to gain popularity and lose that bad review, in the early 20th century.   

The mouth piece is also a way to tune the saxophone. If you are sharp you can pull the mouthpiece out. If you are flat you can push the mouthpiece in. Another way to tune the saxophone is with your mouth. If you are sharp you 'drop your jaw', or loosen up. If you are flat you tighten your embouchure, (mouth).  

There are several different kinds of saxophone. In order from low to high pitch they are: tubax, contrabass, bass, baritone, tenor, alto, soprano, sopranino, and soprillo. However, only the baritone, tenor, alto, and soprano are commonly used.

It was invented in 1840 by Adolphe Sax and is used in classical, jazz, and occasionally in rock, pop, and other styles. The big bands of the 1940s and 1950s always used it too. Famous saxophone players were Marcel Mule (classical music), John Coltrane (jazz music), and Charlie Parker (jazz music).

[[Bryophyte]]

CATEGORIES: Bryophytes, Non-vascular plants

Bryophytes are simple plants. They are the simplest plants that grow on land. There are three forms of bryophyte. These are mosses, liverworts and hornworts. 

Bryophyta is the formal term for this division of plants who do not have tissues to move water. In some modern classifications the word bryophyta only includes mosses. However, the term is still useful because mosses, liverworts, and hornworts share important traits. 

Scientists think that liverworts evolved from green algae. Then other plants, including moss and hornworts, evolved from liverworts.

A person who studies bryophytes is called a bryologist. The study of bryophytes is named bryology.

[[Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Kent, Ceremonial counties of England

Kent is a county in England. It is just to the south-east of London and is on the coast. The sea to the East of Kent is the North Sea.  The sea south of Kent is called the English Channel by the British. France is opposite Kent on the other side of The Channel. At the most narrow point, between Dover, Calais and Cape Gris-Nez, The Channel is only 21 miles (34 km) wide. Dover is one of the main ports in Kent. From here many ferries sail to and from France.

[[Gavrilo Princip]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1918 deaths, Assassins, Deaths from tuberculosis, People who died in prison custody, Serbian people, World War I people

Gavrilo Princip, 25 July 1894 – 28 April 1918, was the Serb nationalist who shot Archduke Franz Ferdinand and the wife of the Archduke, Archduchess Sophie Chotek.

Princip was born in Obljaj a poor area of Bosnia. As a young man he joined a small group who wanted the Slavs in the south of Austria-Hungary to join with Serbia in a new country. They called themselves "Young Bosnia". A group of powerful people in Serbia decided to help them. Those powerful people were called the Black Hand. They gave 'Young Bosnia' guns and small bombs. 

When they heard that Franz Ferdinand was coming to Sarajevo, six of them took the bombs and guns and waited for Ferdinand to drive past. They were going to kill Ferdinand when he drove past. Every one of them failed. After they all failed, Princip went to a cafe to buy a sandwich.

When Princip came out of the cafe, he saw Ferdinand in his car. The driver of the car had driven his car the wrong way and he stalled the car while trying to turn. Princip walked up and shot Ferdinand. He wanted to shoot the general who was also sitting in the car, but Ferdinand's wife Sophie threw her arms around Ferdinand. She was in the way, and Princip shot her instead of the general.

At his trial, Princip said he did it because he loved his people. The Austrians thought it was a very bad crime, but they could not kill him because he was only 19 years old. The law in Austria-Hungary said only people older than 20 could be killed, even when the crime was as bad as killing royalty like Ferdinand. They said Princip must stay in prison for 20 years. During his time in the prison, one of his arms was amputated. He died in prison of tuberculosis and blood loss in 1918. 

Because this crime happened, Austria-Hungary gave Serbia a list of things that Serbia had to do, later called the "July Ultimatum", to stop things like this from happening any more.  Serbia could not do all the things on the list fast enough, because the Austrians really wanted war with Serbia.  Their German allies also wanted a big war. This led to many of the European countries to start fighting.

[[Formula]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

In mathematics and science, a formula is a rule or statement written in algebraic symbols. The plural of formula can be written in two ways: formulae or formulas - the choice is based on personal preference. 

Formulas use letters instead of words. A simple example of a formula is y = x. If x=1, the formula y=x would make the statement that x is the same thing as y, therefore, y=1. 

In mathematics, a formula can also be an identity which equates two mathematical expressions together. Some key formulas under this category include the Pythagorean theorem, binomial theorem, Euler's formula and De Moivre's formula. The expression "V=lwh", which relates the volume V to the length l, width w and height h of a rectangular box, is another example of a formula in geometry.

In science, one of the most well known formulas is the formula for energy, e = mc2, created by Albert Einstein. Here, e represents energy, m represents mass and c is the speed of light. Thus, energy = mass × speed of light 2.

The formula e = mc2 is also an equation. Every equation is a formula, but not every formula is an equation. For instance, the formula x≡y (x "is defined as" y) is not an equation, because no "=" sign is used.

[[Independence and Democracy]]

CATEGORIES: European Parliament

Independence and Democracy is a group in the European Parliament. It used to be called the Group of Europe of Democracies and Diversities. It has about 37 members in it. The members of this group either want their country to leave the European Union, or want to change it.

[[Musician]]

CATEGORIES: musicians, Entertainment occupations

A musician is a person who plays a musical instrument like a guitar or a piano or a person that sings.

A musician is also someone who writes music, even if they write it for other people to play. People who write music are called composers.

Musicians can also make a group together to play songs.

[[Carrot]]

CATEGORIES: Root vegetables, Apiaceae

The carrot is a type of plant. Many different types exist. The Latin name of the plant is usually given as Daucus carota. The plant has an edible, orange root, and usually white flowers. Wild carrots grow naturally in Eurasia. Domesticated carrots are grown for food in many parts of the world.

Carrots are grown in the ground, and carrots roots are a common edible vegetable. After cleaning, the roots may be eaten raw or cooked. They are served as part of many dishes. In Portugal, carrot jam is a speciality.

[[Conservatism]]

CATEGORIES: Conservatism

Conservatism is a type of political belief that supports emphasis on traditions and relies on the individual to maintain society.  The term was first used by François-René de Chateaubriand in 1818,during the Bourbon Restoration, which wanted to roll back the policies of the French Revolution. The term is associated with right-wing politics. It has been used to describe a wide range of views. There is no single set of policies that are regarded as conservative because the meaning of conservatism depends on a given place and time, although most Conservatives oppose Modernism in some way and want to go back to old values. 

In Western culture for example, Conservatives try to maintain things like organized religion, property rights, parliamentary government and family values. 

[[Machine]]

CATEGORIES: Machines, Basic English 850 words, Engineering

A machine is a thing that is created by people to make work easier. It is a tool or invention which multiplies the effect of human effort. The machine produces a mechanical advantage.

Some machines have many parts that move. Examples are bicycles and clocks.

Some machines do not have parts that move. Examples are computers and telephones.

People have used machines since before there was history.

Often a machine will change one form of energy to another form of energy. Simple machines increase or change the direction of a force.

[[Wario Land 4]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 video games, Game Boy Advance games, Game Boy Advance-only games, Wario

Wario Land 4 is a video game released for the Game Boy Advance in 2001 as a part of the Wario video game series. It was later released for the Virtual Console for the Nintendo 3DS as an ambassador game in 2011.

[[Mrs. Doubtfire]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 comedy-drama movies, 1990s family movies, 20th Century Fox movies, Academy Award winning movies, American comedy-drama movies, American family movies, Cross-dressing in movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Movies about entertainers, Movies about families, Movies based on books, Movies set in California, Movies that won the Best Makeup Academy Award, Movies about divorce, Movies directed by Chris Columbus

Mrs. Doubtfire is a 1993 American comedy-drama movie, based on the novel Madame Doubtfire. It stars Robin Williams as Daniel Hillard, a divorced actor who disguises himself as a nanny since he desperately wants to be with his children.

[[Super Mario 64 DS]]

CATEGORIES: Nintendo DS games, 3D platform games, Mario platform games, 2004 video games, Virtual Console games for Wii U

Super Mario 64 DS is a 2004 platform game by Nintendo, and an enhanced remake of the 1996 video game Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64. A cancelled sequel, Super Mario 64 2 for the Nintendo 64DD (N64 Disk Drive) was planned, but it was cancelled, because of the commercial failure of the Disk Drive. Luigi was planned to appear in it too. It was first shown at E3 in 2004 and released for the Nintendo DS in Japan and in the United States in 2004, and in the PAL region in early 2005. The game received positive reviews and was the fifth best-selling video game on the weekly sales chart of the week of December 2004. It has  rec room mini-games which are attained by catching rabbits and a multiplayer wireless VS. Mode, where 4 players can play to get the most stars and coins in 30 seconds, taken from 4 levels and there's three different colored Yoshis (red, blue, and yellow) the one with the card is Green Yoshi and other characters can get wings to fly. In the main game, only Mario can get wings.

[[Epistemology]]

CATEGORIES: Epistemology

Epistemology  is the philosophy of knowledge. It seeks to answer the questions "What is knowledge?" and "How is knowledge acquired?"

Epistemologists are philosophers who are interested in questions such as whether it is possible to have knowledge, what kind of knowledge there is, and how people come to know things.

One of the first philosophers to make a clear statement on these questions was Xenophanes (570–470 BC). The following saying was, and still is, famous:

This is an early kind of skepticism.

[[Ford Focus]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, Ford automobiles

The Ford Focus is a small car made by Ford Motor Company from 1998 to the present day.

[[Friends]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 American television series debuts, 2004 American television series endings, 1990s American sitcoms, 1990s romance television series, 2000s American sitcoms, 2000s romance television series, Manhattan in fiction, NBC network shows, Romantic comedy television series, Television series about friendship, Television series about siblings, Television series set in New York City, English-language television programs

Friends is an American comedy television series. It was on television from September 22, 1994 to May 8, 2004. It is about 6 friends who lived in Manhattan, New York City. They were in their 20s and 30s. The names of the "friends" were: Monica, Chandler, Rachel, Ross, Phoebe and Joey.

Friends got positive reviews through most of its run. It is one of the most popular sitcoms of all time. The series won many awards and was nominated for 63 Primetime Emmy Awards. TV Guide ranked it #21 on their list of the 50 greatest TV shows of all time.

The series was produced by Bright/Kauffman/Crane Productions, in association with Warner Bros. Television. At first, the executive producers were Crane, Kauffman and Kevin Bright. Other producers were brought in during later seasons. In all, there were 236 episodes. There is a spin-off to this show named Joey.

The series finale aired on May 6, 2004, and was watched by around 52.5 million American viewers, making it the fifth most-watched series finale in television history, and the most-watched television episode of the 2000s decade.

A reunion special was released in May 2021 on HBO Max.

[[Seinfeld]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 American television series debuts, 1998 American television series endings, 1980s American comedy television series, 1990s American comedy television series, American sitcoms, Emmy Award winning programs, Golden Globe Award winning programs, NBC network shows, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Seinfeld, Television series set in New York City, English-language television programs

Seinfeld was an American television series. The series is thought by many people to be a great situation comedy. It was created by Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David and ran from 1989 to 1998. Jerry Seinfeld plays himself.

[[Joey (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 American television series debuts, 2006 American television series endings, 2000s American comedy television series, American sitcoms, NBC network shows, Television series about families, Television series set in Los Angeles, California, Television spin-offs, English-language television programs

Joey was a 2004 American television series. It was a sitcom on the NBC network. The series was a spin-off of the series Friends. It starred Matt LeBlanc as Joey Tribbiani, his character from Friends. It consists of Joey, his sister, and his nephew.

[[Eastern Orthodox Church]]

CATEGORIES: Eastern Orthodox Church

The Eastern Orthodox Church, officially the Orthodox Church, is a Christian church. Their type of Christianity is also called Orthodox Christianity or Orthodoxy. Their members are called Orthodox Christians, although there is another group of Churches called Oriental Orthodox that is not in communion with the Orthodox Church. There are about 300 million Orthodox Christians in the world. Most Orthodox Christians are found in Eastern Europe and the Middle East, but there are Orthodox Christians everywhere around the world.

The Eastern Orthodox Church teaches that it is the Church started by Jesus Christ in his instructions to the Apostles. It practices what it understands to be the original Christian faith and maintains the sacred tradition passed down from the apostles.

The worship service is known as the Divine Liturgy. The beliefs and rituals of the service are similar to the Eucharist in the Roman Catholic Church.

[[Lisgar Collegiate Institute]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Canada, 1874 establishments, 1870s establishments in Canada

Lisgar Collegiate Institute is in Ottawa, Canada. It is the oldest secondary school in Ottawa and possibly Ontario. It was named after a former Governor General of Canada. It was established in 1874 and has been formerly known as the Ottawa Collegiate Institute and the Dalhousie District Grammar School. It celebrated its 160th anniversary in 2004. 

Lisgar houses about 1000 students. It has a gifted program.

[[Aberdeen]]

CATEGORIES: Aberdeen, Port cities and towns of Scotland, Port cities and towns of the North Sea

Aberdeen is a city on the north east coast of Scotland where the rivers Dee and Don flow into the North Sea. It was the capital of the Grampian region of Scotland, but it is now one of Scotland's Unitary Authorities. Aberdeen is the third largest city in Scotland. Its population is nearly 200,000. It is the coldest city in the UK. The city's motto is Bon Accord.

[[Psoriasis]]

CATEGORIES: Dermatology

Psoriasis is a skin condition where cells grow at a faster rate than they can be shed, causing excess skin to build up and form scaly patches on the body. 

The condition: 

It appears to be a buildup of dry skin on your body.  You can have it at any age, but normally as you get older.  It starts with the skin cracking as a paper cut on your fingertips. This skin would begin to die, flake, peal and itch. As your itch the area, it begins to get red and then it begins to blister like, flake and peals to raw skin.  It appears most often on hands, toes, inside arch of your feet and on you heals.  It is also shows up in callus, by cracking.  When washing hands it has a burning effect.     

Living in moist humid climate appears to delay the condition for appearing.  Dry arid climates seem to aggravate the condition.  Washing your hands has a drying affect, which triggers the condition.  When washing, water removes oils from our body, and has a drying effect on our hands.  Washing with Psoriasis removes the dry skin, but then the skin underneath is raw.  Hard water appears to worsen the condition in dry climates, but not as much in humid areas.  Soft water appears better. 

[[Jurassic Park]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century American novels, Books by Michael Crichton, Jurassic Park, Science fiction books, 1990 books, Dinosaurs in fiction, Fantasy books, Science fiction

Jurassic Park is a 1990 science fiction novel by Michael Crichton. It was made into a movie in 1993 directed by Steven Spielberg.

[[H. G. Wells]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1946 deaths, English novelists, Writers from Kent

Herbert George Wells (21 September 1866 – 13 August 1946) was an English author. He was born in Bromley, Kent. He wrote about 50 books. He was one of the inventors of science fiction, and also wrote novels and utopias. He wrote books such as The Invisible Man, The Time Machine, The Island of Dr. Moreau, and The War of the Worlds. He also explained how the things he wrote about could actually happen. Some of his books have been made into movies. He had diabetes. He died in London.

[[Landseer (Continental-European type)]]

CATEGORIES: Dog breeds

!Breed standards (Other websites)

The Landseer (Continental-European type) is a dog breed.

[[Glasgow]]

CATEGORIES: Glasgow

Glasgow (Scottish: Glaschu, Lowland Scots: Glesga) is the biggest and busiest city in Scotland. It is on the banks of the River Clyde. People from Glasgow are known as "Glaswegians" (glas-wee-jans), which is a name also used for words that are used only in Glasgow - also known as "The Glasgow Patter".

The number of people living in Glasgow is 621,020 (2017 estimate) and 

626,410 (2019 estimate). Many more people live in the areas round the city. There are 1,209,143 people living in the Greater Glasgow urban area. The wider metropolitan area is home to over 1,670,000 people, about 33% of Scotland's population.

The number of people living inside the city proper used to be much higher. Starting in the early 1960s the old tenements were pulled down and new housing built further out (high-rise blocks were the fashion of the day). Now there is nowhere near the number of people living in Glasgow as during the famous times of the shipyards on the River Clyde. It was said to be the second biggest city in the world after London at one point in the 1800s. 

Many people from other countries visit Glasgow for holidays and trips; most of these people are from Europe France, America (the US and Canada) for weekend and week trips.

Two airports serve the city, Glasgow International Airport and Prestwick Airport. The main railway stations in the city are Glasgow Central and Queen Street stations. They provide rail links to the rest of Scotland, to the rest of the United Kingdom and Europe.

There are a number of theatres and concert halls in the city. These include the SECC (Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre), the Royal Concert hall, the King's Theatre, the Pavilion Theatre and the Theatre Royal.

Glasgow has several football teams - the best known are Rangers F.C. and Celtic F.C.. Partick Thistle, Clydebank, and Queens Park F.C. also play in the city.

Glasgow has an oceanic climate (Cfb in the Koeppen climate classification). The weather in Glasgow is almost always changing, and it is hard to say what the entire day's weather is like. Very often, the weather is worst in the morning when it is mostly damp and sometimes misty or even foggy; the Glasgow Patter also refers to dreich weather - damp and drizzly. However, the weather mostly improves through the afternoon and more often than not the weather stays dry and at an average temperature.

In summer it is popular as a base for tourists. They can stay in Glasgow and then travel to see Loch Lomond and the Western Isles. One of the oldest paddle-steamer boats is in Glasgow, and in the summer one can travel down the Clyde to visit other towns and islands.

[[Grampian]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas

Grampian was a government region in north east Scotland. It was named after the Grampian mountains which start in this region.

The capital city of the region was Aberdeen.

The region was created in 1974. It was removed in 1995 because local government in Scotland was  made simpler.

[[Scottish Borders]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas

Scottish Borders is a council area (region) in south Scotland. Its name is because it is on the border with England.

The name is usually shortened to    " the Borders".

It is made up of the counties of :-

The main town of the region is Newtown St Boswells.

[[Central Region, Scotland]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas

Central was a government region in central Scotland between 1974 and 1995. After local government in Scotland was made simpler, it was replaced with smaller areas.

[[Dumfries and Galloway]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas

Dumfries and Galloway is a council area in south west Scotland. In takes in three counties:

The main and biggest town of the region is Dumfries. Dumfries is 60 miles south of Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland.

[[Fife]]

CATEGORIES: Fife

Fife is a county on the north coast of the Firth of Forth, Scotland. The county town is Glenrothes.

For local government, the county is a council area too.

The towns in Fife are:

[[Highland (council area)]]

CATEGORIES: Highland

The Highland Council Area is a local government region in north Scotland.  It covers most of the area which people call the Scottish Highlands.

[[Lothian]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas

Lothian was a region on the east coast of Scotland.

[[Strathclyde]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Scotland

Strathclyde was a region in west Scotland. It is named after the River Clyde. The capital city of the region was Glasgow. 

A long time ago, Strathclyde was also the name of one of the kingdoms which united to form Scotland.

[[Tayside]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish Council Areas

[[Dundee]]

CATEGORIES: Dundee, Port cities and towns of Scotland, Port cities and towns of the North Sea

Dundee is a city on the east coast of Scotland where the River Tay flows into the North Sea. It is the fourth largest city in Scotland.  It was famous as the city of "Jute, jam, and journalism", because jute and jam were made there, and several newspapers were printed in the city.

Dundee has a population of 148,260 people. It is the fourth largest city in Scotland.

There are two universities in Dundee. They are called the University of Dundee and the University of Abertay Dundee.

It also is home to two professional football teams. Dundee F.C. and Dundee United F.C., who both play in the Scottish Premier League. Unusually, their stadiums (Dens Park and Tannadice) are very close together, in the same street.

Dundee Airport serves the area.

[[Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: County towns in England, Oxford

Oxford is a city in England. It is on the River Thames. It is a very old city. It is the 52nd largest city in the United Kingdom. Some of its buildings were built before the 12th century. It is famous for its university, Oxford University, which is the oldest university in the English-speaking world.

About 150,200 live in Oxford. Two rivers run through the city, the Cherwell and the Thames. These two rivers meet south of the city centre.

Besides its university, there are some buildings famous for their architecture (the style in which they were built), like the Radcliffe Camera. There are also lots of museums and other places for tourists to visit.

The south and east of the city are less wealthy and have fewer students. Cowley used to be a separate town and has a large car factory, and Blackbird Leys is an area of mainly council housing.

[[George VI]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1952 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from lung cancer, English Anglicans, English royalty, House of Windsor, Kings and Queens of the United Kingdom, People from Norfolk, Elizabeth II

George VI (14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952) was born Albert Frederick Arthur George Windsor. He was the king (monarch) of the United Kingdom from 11 December 1936 until he died. He became king when his older brother, Edward VIII, abdicated (resigned) in 1936 to marry Wallis Simpson. George was married to Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon from 1923 until his death.

He was succeeded as monarch by his elder daughter, Elizabeth.

George had a speech problem, a stutter. This made it very difficult for him to carry out many of the public duties of a king which required him to make speeches. He was treated by an Australian speech and language therapist called Lionel Logue. The story of this part of George's life was made into a movie in 2010 called The King's Speech. Colin Firth played the role of George, and Geoffrey Rush played the role of Logue.

George became a very popular king throughout the British Empire. He won admiration during World War II (19391945), in which he stayed at Buckingham Palace during the most intense months of the Blitz. The Palace was bombed more than twice but he still remained, becoming a symbol of resistance and "fighting spirit". He  enjoyed a close working relationship with his wartime Prime Minister Winston Churchill, inviting him to join the Royal Family on Victory in Europe Day (1945) to celebrate the defeat of the Nazis.

A heavy smoker, George died of lung cancer and was given a state funeral. He was fifty-six years old.

[[Asia Minor]]

CATEGORIES: Middle East, Peninsulas

Asia Minor, a peninsula also called Anatolia (from the Ancient Greek: 'Άνατολή),  (Turkish: Anadolu), comprises the Asian part of modern Turkey.

Asia Minor is 750,000 square kilometers (290,000 square miles). Most of Asia Minor is a plateau averaging 1,000 meters (3,000 feet) above sea level. The climate is continental and semi-arid in the interior, temperate along the north coast, and subtropical along the south and west coasts. Most people there today speak Turkish. The seas surrounding Asia Minor are the Black Sea, the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea. Because Asia Minor is between Christian Europe and Asia, many different cultures have lived there. Remnants (small parts) of these cultures are there today.

Many great historical peoples, like the Hittites, Lydians, Greeks, Persians, Armenians, Romans, Goths, Minoans, Byzantines and Turks, have lived in or occupied Asia Minor. The Roman Empire had a province called Asia, also called Phrygia. Later people started to call the entire continent Asia, so the peninsula Asia was called Asia Minor (little Asia). 

Troy is one of many famous cities that were in Asia Minor long ago. 

[[Zoroastrianism]]

CATEGORIES: Zoroastrianism

Zoroastrianism is a religion. Zoroaster, who lived in eastern ancient Iran around 1000 BC, created Zoroastrianism. Other names for Zoroastrianism are Mazdaism and Parsiism.

Zoroastrianism is a monotheistic religion. The Zoroastrian god is called Ahura Mazda.   The holy book of Zoroastrianism is the Zend Avesta.

Zoroastrianism is also dualist. Zoroastrians believe Ahura Mazda created the good spirits (Spenta Mainyu), and Angra Mainyu the demons. Zoroastrians believe people are free to choose between good and bad.  Choosing good will lead to happiness, and choosing bad will lead to unhappiness. So it is the best to choose good. Therefore, the motto of the religion is "Good Thoughts, Good Words, Good Deeds".

Zoroastrianism was the state religion of Persia starting in the 6th century BC, including the Sassanid dynasty. In the 7th century AD, Persia was conquered by Islamic Arabs, and most Persians became Muslims.

Nowadays, there are about 2.6 million Zoroastrians in the world. Most of them live in Iran, Pakistan or India. In Pakistan and India, they are called Parsis. Many Zoroastrians now live in the United States.

[[Science Olympiad]]

CATEGORIES: Science, Competitions, Events in the United States, 1982 establishments in the United States

The Science Olympiad is a nationwide event in the United States that tests students' knowledge in science and technology. It started in 1982, and takes place every year.

Science Olympiad consists of twenty three events testing students in middle and high school on different science topics, such as astronomy and chemistry.

[[Bookstore]]

CATEGORIES: Books, Shops

A bookstore is a store that sells books, and where people can buy them. A used bookstore or second-hand bookshop sells and often buys used books.

[[Lemonade]]

CATEGORIES: Drinks

Lemonade is a drink made with water, lemons or lemon juice, and sugar. 

There are two main types: cloudy, and clear, each known simply as "lemonade" in their home countries. Cloudy lemonade, generally found in North America and India, is a traditionally homemade drink made with lemon juice, water, and sweetened with cane sugar or honey. Clear lemonade is a lemon, or lemon-lime flavored, carbonated soft drink. This type is common in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand.

To make 8 cups of lemonade, mix the juice of 8 freshly squeezed lemons with 1/2 a cup of sugar and 5 cups of water and serve over ice cubes. A diced (cut up) lemon or lime can also be added to mixture. The sugar is sometimes replaced by maple syrup.

Pink lemonade can be made by adding some grenadine or another red juice, or using pink lemons. Some pink lemonades are lightly carbonated, including French brand Lorina lemonade.

In the United Kingdom, Australia, Switzerland, and New Zealand, the term 'lemonade' refers to a clear, carbonated, sweet lemon-flavored soft drink. In India it is commonly referred to as 'Nimbu paani' meaning "lemon water" or 'Shikanji'. It is sold by street vendors, especially in North India.

Lemonade stands are a small shops made by kids especially in the U.S. Children sell it to adults to learn the basics of business and to earn some money. 

[[Melting]]

CATEGORIES: Matter

Melting is the process of changing something from a solid into a liquid (like metal into liquid metal). It is the opposite of freezing. The temperature at which something begins to melt is called its melting point. When an object is heated, the object's particles begin to move faster and faster until the structured particles are freed. Now it is a liquid. It is a solid that is turning into a liquid. Ice takes longer to melt it is in cold water, because the water is near the melting point. It melts more quickly in warm water, far from the melting point.

[[September 11]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

The terms "September 11" and "9/11" have been used by the media to refer to the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center and The Pentagon in the United States of America.

[[Essex]]

CATEGORIES: Essex, Ceremonial counties of England

Essex is a county in the east of England. It has a population of around 1,750,000 people. It is part of the East of England region. Chelmsford is the county town of Essex, as well as being its only city. Essex has London and Hertfordshire on its western border and the whole of the east of the county is coast-line. The north of the county borders Suffolk and Cambridgeshire. The south of the county is on the Thames Estuary. The Dartford Tunnel can be used to drive under the River Thames between Essex and Kent.

Other large towns in Essex are Colchester, the oldest town in England, Basildon, a new town, and in the south-eastern corner of the county Southend, one of Britain's biggest seaside resorts.

There has been lots of recent debate about whether certain sections of East London should be included as parts of Essex, such as Ilford and Romford. Due to boundary changes across the years, these areas were historically in Essex but have been dissolved into the Greater London area since.

[[County town]]

CATEGORIES: County towns

A county town is the most important town of any county in Britain and Ireland. In the United States the town is called the county seat. 

It can be the place where the headquarters of the county council is based, or the place where the courts are. It has usually been the county town for hundreds of years. It could also be the biggest or most important town in the county. There is often a university in or near the county town. Cities can also be county towns, such as Hereford, or Durham City.

Some examples of county towns today in England:

[[Southend-on-Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Essex boroughs, Towns in Essex

Southend-on-Sea is town and unitary authority borough in the East of England. It is a seaside resort in the south-eastern corner of the county of Essex. It has a pier which is one of the longest in the world. The pier is 2,158 meters (1.34 miles) long. A railway line runs along the pier. The pier has been badly damaged by fires four times in fifty years, in 1959, 1976, 1993 and 2005. Near the pier there are arcades, casinos and a theme park called Adventure Island.

[[Cumbria]]

CATEGORIES: Ceremonial counties of England, Cumbria, 1974 establishments in England

Cumbria is a county in England. It is in the very north-western part of England on the border with Scotland. The most important and biggest town is Carlisle, in the north of the county. This is the county town and there is an ancient (very old) castle in the centre of the town.

In 1974, Cumberland, Westmorland and bits of Yorkshire and Lancashire were put into the new county of Cumbria. The world famous Lake District national park is in Cumbria. Millions of tourists visit the Lake District to enjoy sailing on the lakes and the impressive mountains that are here. The highest mountain in England is in the Lake District, it is called Scar Fell.

Cumbria is very popular with people who enjoy walking although the weather is very poor here. It often rains and is cold. Many tourists from Japan and China visit Cumbria. Popular places for them and other tourists to see are the poet William Wordsworth's two houses, the home of the famous children's writer Beatrix Potter and the island and lake where the writer Arthur Ransome based his books about the 'Swallows And Amazons'.

[[Bob Dylan]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Accordionists, American blues musicians, American country musicians, American folk musicians, American guitarists, American Nobel Prize winners, American rock musicians, American rock singers, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters, Jewish American musicians, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Jews who converted to Christianity, Kennedy Center honorees, Multi-instrumentalists, Musicians from Minnesota, Nobel Prize in Literature winners, People from Duluth, Minnesota, Singers from Minnesota

LiteratureBob Dylan (born Robert Allen Zimmerman; May 24, 1941) is an American singer-songwriter and musician. He is one of the most famous and successful popular singers of the last 50 years.

He was born in 1941 in Minnesota.  As a youth he was a big fan of rock and roll, and formed several bands in high school.  However, Dylan first became famous as a folk musician.  In 1962, he released his first album, simply called Bob Dylan. The next year, he released the folk song "Blowin' in the Wind", which became very popular. In 1965, he began playing rock and roll. That year, Dylan released "Like a Rolling Stone", which has been called the greatest popular music song of all time. He put these two types of music together in a new way, which became very popular.

The next year, Dylan was in a motorcycle crash which broke his neck. His recovery took many months, and he released no new music or records during this time. Dylan re-examined his life while he recovered, saw what other musicians were doing, and made changes to his own style. His comeback album, John Wesley Harding, was different from his earlier work. While he made many tours to perform during the mid-1960s, he made very few public appearances until the mid-1970s.

Dylan later became a Christian, then drifted away from Christianity, even re-exploring Judaism, which his family followed. Now, he does not want to talk about his religion. Since the 1980s, he has concentrated on touring.

Also, Dylan is one of the famous people who appear on the cover of The Beatles's Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band.

In 2016, Dylan received the Nobel Prize in Literature, "for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition".

[[Diana Ross]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, African American actors, African-American singers, Diana Ross, Living people, People from Bessemer, Alabama, Singers from Alabama, Actors from Alabama, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, Singers from Detroit, Michigan

Diana Ross is a famous American soul and pop singer. She was born in 1944 in Detroit, Michigan. Ross worked as a secretary for Motown Records in Detroit. She first became successful with a Motown group as The Supremes. The Supremes were the most successful act on Motown in the 1960s. They sold millions of albums and made it possible for other African American musical acts to become famous with international audiences.

Diana Ross had a successful solo career from the 1970s on. She is a high-paid concert performer. She also starred in three movies: Lady Sings The Blues, the story of the blues singer Billie Holiday; Mahogany, a story about a fashion designer; and The Wiz, an African-American version of the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.

[[Enid Blyton]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1968 deaths, British children's writers, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in London, Writers from London

Enid Blyton (11 August 1897 – 28 November 1968) was an English author. She was born in Dulwich, South London, England. She was one of the world's most famous children's writers. She is also one of the most prolific authors of all time. (This means that she wrote a great number of books.) Her most famous stories are the Famous Five stories, about a group of four children (Dick, Julian, Anne, and Georgina, who wanted to be called George) and their dog (Timmy) who have many adventures, and her Noddy books for small children.

Her parents wanted her to become a concert pianist (someone who plays the piano), but Enid wanted to be a teacher. Her parents agreed to let her train as a teacher. She began teaching in 1919 in Kent, not far from where she grew up in Beckenham.

As a child and teenager her main interest had been writing poems, stories and other items. She had sent many of them to magazines but had never had any published. As she worked as a teacher she began to have her articles, about children and education printed in a magazine called  Teachers' World. Her first book, called Child Whispers came out in 1922. It was a book of her poems with illustrations (drawings).

She was married soon after. She left teaching and began to have more success with her books. She wrote in and was the editor of magazine for children called Sunny Stories.  The stories she wrote for this magazine were so popular that the magazine was then called Enid Blyton's Sunny Stories. The magazine came out every two weeks. Many of Enid's most famous books were first printed in this magazine in parts.

Enid Blyton has been in The Guinness Book of Records as one of the world's biggest selling writers. She is also included because she wrote more books than almost any other writer (about 700). Her books were published in many different languages. She said that she found writing them easy. In the last few years of her life she had a disease which damaged her mind, called presenile dementia. Her books still sell in large numbers, and used to be owned by her family. A few years ago her family sold them, and now her works belong to a private company.

Enid Blyton did a lot of work for charity and had a club for children which helped them to give money to charity. She was married twice and had two daughters. She died of Alzheimer's disease in Hampstead, London.

Books: Enid Blyton: a biography (1974). The official biography, telling the story of Enid Blyton's life

[[Saint Denis]]

CATEGORIES: 3rd century births, 272 deaths, Christian saints

Saint Denis is the patron saint of France. 

Saint Denis was the first bishop of Paris. He supposedly went there between 250 and 270. He was executed in 272. According to legend, he was beheaded. After his beheading, he walked away, his head under his arms, along what is today the Rue des Martyrs in Paris. After about 6, he gave his head to a pious woman, who had a basilica erected in the spot. 

[[Dragon]]

CATEGORIES: Legendary creatures

A dragon is a legendary creature, belonging to mythology and fantasy. There are stories about dragons in Chinese culture, European culture, South American culture, and many others.

There are many kinds of dragons in the different cultures. In general:

Dragons feature in many stories such as; The Hobbit, Beowulf, How To Train Your Dragon and Harry Potter. In The Hobbit and Beowulf, dragons are dangerous and attack humans. Other stories, such as those by Anne McCaffrey, have dragons who are looking for help, or giving help. A dragon also appears in the Book of Revelation chapters 12-13, where he is seen as the Devil.

[[Inertia]]

CATEGORIES: Mechanics, Basic physics ideas

Inertia is the resistance of the object to any change in its motion, including a change in direction. An object will stay still or keep moving at the same speed and in a straight line, unless it is acted upon by an external unbalanced force.

For example, a rubber ball will not start bouncing around unless someone picks it up and throws it. Basically, if an object is not moving, it will not start moving unless something else acts upon it. The same idea can be applied to motion: an object in motion will stay in motion unless some outside, opposing force acts upon it. Inertia is also called Sir Isaac Newton's First Law of Motion. The First Law of Motion says that:

This basically means:

Every object stays at rest or stays moving at the same speed unless something makes it change.Johannes Kepler gave inertia its name in Epitome Astronomiae Copernicanae (published in three parts from 1617–1621)

Albert Einstein developed the idea of Special Relativity based on Galileo's statement that it is impossible to tell the difference between a moving object and a stationary one without some outside reference to compare it against.

==Related pages==	

[[Sherlock Holmes]]

CATEGORIES: Characters in written fiction, Fictional British people, Arthur Conan Doyle

Sherlock Holmes is a character from books written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. His most famous story was The Hound of the Baskervilles.

Many of the stories were made into movies and television dramas. He is a detective who tries to find out who committed crimes. There is a monument in London dedicated to him. He has a sharp mind and solves even the most difficult and strange cases. He works with his friend Dr. Watson, a retired army officer. Holmes plays the violin and smokes a pipe. Sometimes when he has not got any cases to solve, he uses drugs. He is very smart. He first appeared in 1887 and is known for his detective skills. Sometimes  he takes cocaine and morphine.

Sherlock Holmes was "born" on 6th January 1861 April 2017, and for more than 100 years his name has been known in every country of the world; and not only his name, but his appearance too. The hawk-like features and piercing eyes; the dressing-gown and pipe; the unusual cap and magnifying glass - these details are so familiar that if he were to appear amongst us today we should know him at once.

[[York]]

CATEGORIES: Unitary authorities, York

York is a historic walled city in North Yorkshire, England. The Romans called it Eboracum, and the Vikings called it Jorvik.

[[North Yorkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Ceremonial counties of England, North Yorkshire, 1974 establishments in England

North Yorkshire is a large county in the region called Yorkshire and the Humber in the north of England.

North Yorkshire was part of one bigger county called Yorkshire. The three parts of Yorkshire used to be called the West Riding, the East Riding, and the North Riding. in 1974, the boundaries and names changed. The "North Riding" changed to "North Yorkshire". The other main parts of Yorkshire are now South Yorkshire, West Yorkshire, and the East Riding of Yorkshire.

The largest city in North Yorkshire is York. York is now (since 1996) a unitary authority, it is not officially part of North Yorkshire.

North Yorkshire is the largest county in England. It has several towns. It also has many open green areas and hills, so two of the 11 UK national parks (the North York Moors and most of the Yorkshire Dales) are in North Yorkshire.

[[Pig Latin]]

CATEGORIES: Constructed languages, Word games

Pig Latin is a language code or game and is most often used by children who speak English. 

The usual rules are:

Pig Latin that one writes is sometimes written with dashes, between the first part and the "c-ay" letters, and sometimes it is not. A sentence can be "Is-thay is-ay an-ay example-ay of-ay Ig-pay Atin-lay ith-way ashes-day", or "Isthay isay anay exampleay ofay Igpay Atinlay ithoutway ashesday."

In Pig Latin, this sentence:

comes to mean:

The British name for Pig Latin is "backslang".

[[Binary number]]

CATEGORIES: Numbers

The binary numeral system is a way to write numbers using only two digits: 0 and 1. These are used in computers as a series of "off" and "on" switches. In binary, each digit's place value is twice as much as that of the next digit to the right (since each digit holds two values). In decimal - the system that humans normally use - each digit holds ten values, and the place value increases by a power of ten (ones, tens, hundreds, etc.).  The place value of the rightmost digit, in either case, is 1.

Example: 10110011

Adding together all the place values that have 1s, it would be 1+2+16+32+128 = 179.  For convenience, binary digits (bits, for short) are usually grouped together in two groups of 4 bits.  This is 8 bits, or a byte, and is written using the hexadecimal numeral system.  This would be shown as 1011 0011 = B3.

[[Nickname]]

CATEGORIES: Names

A nickname is a special name that a person may be called that is different from their real name or from their birth name.  It is not a legal thing; it is a social thing.  The name may be given to them by their friends or family.  It may be like the person's real name or completely different.  Nicknames often come from how a person looks, or from something they are especially known for doing.  They can also be a shortened version of the given name.

Nicknames can also be unkind and rude, and used by people who dislike the person given the nickname.  Often famous people are given nicknames by the writers of newspapers or other people in the media, such as TV. In Thailand, people are often given nicknames based on how they look. For example, someone can be called ผู้ชายสูง (phuchay sung) meaning being tall. Nicknames can also be given to people in countries. For example, people from the United States are sometimes called Yankees. Nicknames can also be given to tribes. For example, the Dhulbahante tribe are often called reer Darawiish. That's because the former anti-colonial Dervish state was a Dhulbahante state.

[[Martin Luther King Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: Martin Luther King Jr., 1929 births, 1968 deaths, American Baptists, American civil rights activists, American murder victims, Writers from Atlanta, Georgia, American Nobel Prize winners, Boston University alumni, Christian ministers, Democratic socialists, Nonviolence advocates, Social democrats, Time People of the Year, Assassinated people, Murdered African-American people, Murders by firearm in the United States

Martin Luther King, Jr. (born Michael King, Jr.; January 15, 1929 – April 4, 1968) was an American pastor, activist, humanitarian, and leader in the Civil Rights Movement. He was best known for improving civil rights by using nonviolent civil disobedience, based on his Christian beliefs. Because he was both a Ph.D. and a pastor, King is sometimes called the Reverend Doctor Martin Luther King Jr. (abbreviation: the Rev. Dr. King), or just Dr King. He is also known by his initials MLK. He was the pastor of the Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia.

King worked hard to make people understand that not only blacks, but that all races should always be treated equally to white people. He gave speeches to encourage African Americans to protest without using violence.

Led by Dr. King and others, many African Americans used nonviolent, peaceful strategies to fight for their civil rights. These strategies included sit-ins, boycotts, and protest marches. Often, they were attacked by white police officers or people who did not want African Americans to have more rights. However, no matter how badly they were attacked, Dr. King and his followers never fought back.

King also helped to organize the 1963 March on Washington, where he delivered his "I Have a Dream" speech. The next year, he won the Nobel Peace Prize.

King fought for equal rights from the start of the Montgomery Bus Boycott in 1955 until he was murdered by James Earl Ray in April 1968.

[[Jumanji]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 movies, Fantasy books, Movies based on books, English-language movies

Jumanji is a 1995 movie starring Robin Williams, which was based loosely on a 1982 children's book of the same name by Chris Van Allsburg. It is about a boy who gets trapped in a game for 30 years, and must finish playing the game when he gets out. Other stars include Kirsten Dunst, David Alan Grier, Bonnie Hunt, Bradley Pierce, Jonathan Hyde, and Bebe Neuwirth. In the "Flying Hunter Van Pelt" scene, Roland D-50's PN-D50-02 patch "Fast Forward" was heard.

The game in the movie (titled Jumanji) has been made into a real game.

[[Neopets]]

CATEGORIES: Online games, Entertainment websites

Neopets is a website that lets its users create virtual pets, and take care of them. The site was created on November 15 1999, and has hundreds of millions of users.  The website is owned by Jumpstart.  Most of the pets that the user can create are not real animals, but are based upon real animals.  Neopets has story plots, chat boards, and different things that users can do with their neopets. Many people of many different ages join Neopets. The site has many games that the user can play.  Neopets has a help section to find answers to many of the questions that users may have. The games length varies from a minute or less to saveable games like neoquest that take more than 10 hours total to complete.

[[Queen Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: 1819 births, 1901 deaths, Kings and Queens of the United Kingdom, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, English Anglicans, House of Hanover, House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, Indian monarchs, Royalty from London

Queen Victoria (born Alexandrina Victoria (24 May 1819 – 22 January 1901) was Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland from 1837 to 1901. She was born to a German princess and an English prince. She became Queen of the United Kingdom Great Britain at the age of 18 after her uncle King William IV died. She inherited the throne because her father's three elder brothers died without leaving any legitimate children.

She was taught by her governess, Louise Lehzen, and Reverend George Davys. She learned to speak and read German and French well. Queen Victoria enjoyed dancing, drawing, horse riding and singing. She had lessons as a child from the famous opera singer Luigi LaBlache. She liked to paint and could play the piano. She kept a regular diary throughout her life. 

Victoria married her first cousin, Prince Albert, in 1840. He supported science, trade and art in Britain. Victoria and Albert had nine children. They believed that a good family life and Christianity were very important. In general, English people followed their example. 

The Great Exhibition at Crystal Palace opened in 1851. It happened partly because of Albert's hard work. The exhibition showed the success of British people in Victorian times.

In 1861, Prince Albert died and Victoria stayed away from public life. 

Britain became more powerful in the following years, and in 1877, Victoria got the title 'Empress of India'. Victoria was very interested in India, but she never went there to the subcontinent. Her son went there instead. 

In 1897, Victoria celebrated 60 years of being monarch. This surpassed her grandfather King George III. She was queen for 63 years, seven months longer than any other king or queen of Britain. People called her the 'grandmother of Europe' because many of Victoria's children became kings, princes and princesses of other countries. 

After she died from a brain haemorrhage, her son  Edward VII became King of the United Kingdom and Emperor of India from 22 January 1901 till his death 6 May 1910.

[[Freak the Mighty]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 books

Freak the Mighty is a young adult fiction novel by Rodman Philbrick. Published in 1993, it was followed by the novel Max the Mighty in 1998. The primary characters are friends Maxwell Kane, a large, very slow, but kind-hearted kid and his friend Kevin Avery, nicknamed “Freak,” who is physically crippled but very intelligent. (In the Book, Kevin's last name is Avery. However, in the movie, his last name was changed to Dillon. Kevin is diagnosed with Morquio syndrome.)

The novel was adapted for the screen by Charles Leavitt; the movie was shot in Toronto, Canada and Cincinnati, Ohio, and directed by Peter Chelsom, and released in 1998.

[[Daniel Handler]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Writers from San Francisco

Daniel Handler  (born February 28, 1970) is the real name of Lemony Snicket, author of the popular A Series of Unfortunate Events books. He graduated from Lowell High School and from Wesleyan University in 1992. He is a native of San Francisco and went to the San Francisco Boys Chorus.  He calls himself the fake name of Lemony Snicket in the books, as well as in Lemony's autobiography. The autobiography is listed as fiction. After several years of writing the books, Daniel let the public know that he was behind the name of Lemony Snicket.

He is married to Lisa Brown and had their first child, Otto, in October of 2003. He finished 13 books to complete the Series of Unfortunate Events.

It is also believed by some people that his wife, author and illustrator Lisa Brown could possibly be the "Beatrice" that Handler writes his books for.

[[Global warming]]

CATEGORIES: Energy, Climate change, Air pollution

Global warming is the temperature of Earth's surface, oceans and atmosphere going up over ten to thousands of years. Average temperatures today are about 1 higher than before people started burning a lot of coal around 1750. But in some parts of the world it is less than this and some more. Most climate scientists say that by the year 2100 temperatures will be 2 to  4 higher than they were before 1750. The changes people can see most easily is because of this increase in temperature is the melting of ice caps all around the world. Sea level is rising for two reasons. One reason is because of ice on the land, like Greenland, melting into the sea. The other reason is because of water getting bigger when it gets warmer. Many cities will be partly flooded by the ocean in the 21st century. 

Global warming is a culmination of unsustainable human activities on the globe. Most entities have put a considerable amount of focus on their bottom line as opposed to care for the environment. Reversing the impact of climate change would need people to rethink how they conduct their activities contemporaneously with a view of safeguarding the globe for the current and future generation. 

Global warming is mostly because of people burning things, like gasoline to make cars go and natural gas to keep houses warm. But the heat from the burning itself only makes the world a tiny bit warmer: it is the carbon dioxide from the burning which is the biggest part of the problem. Among the greenhouse gases, the increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is the main cause of global warming, as predicted by Svante Arrhenius a hundred years ago, confirming the work of Joseph Fourier more than 200 years ago. When people burn fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas this adds carbon dioxide into the air. This is because fossil fuels contain lots of carbon and burning means joining most of the atoms in the fuel with oxygen. When people cut down many trees (deforestation), this means less carbon dioxide is taken out of the atmosphere by those plants.

As the Earth's surface temperature becomes hotter the sea level becomes higher. This is partly because water over 4 expands when it gets warmer. It is also partly because warm temperatures make glaciers and ice caps melt. The sea level rise causes coastal areas to flood. Weather patterns, including where and how much rain or snow there is, are changing. Deserts will probably increase in size. Colder areas will warm up faster than warm areas. Strong storms may become more likely and farming may not make as much food. These effects will not be the same everywhere. The changes from one area to another are not well known.

People in government and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) are talking about global warming. But governments, companies, and other people do not agree on what to do about it. Some things that could reduce warming are to burn less fossil fuels, grow more trees, eat less meat, and put some carbon dioxide back in the ground. Shading the Earth from some sunlight (this is called geoengineering) could also reduce warming but we don't understand how it might change weather in other ways. Also people could adapt to any temperature changes. The Kyoto Protocol and Paris Agreement try to reduce pollution from the burning of fossil fuels. Most governments have agreed to them but some people in government think nothing should change. The gas produced by cows digestion also causes global warming, because it contains a greenhouse gas called methane.

[[House music]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic dance music

House music is a type of electronic dance music. It began during the early 1980s from disco and the black American soul music tradition.  It takes its name from the Warehouse, a Chicago club where DJs first played their records to a large audience.   The original "House" sound is characterized by "four on the floor" beats at 120-130 BPM, forward-driven bass lines, an emphasis on the second and fourth beats of each measure, handclaps, and cymbals.  Over the years, house has created many types of house music. These include:

[[Ammonia]]

CATEGORIES: Nitrogen compounds

Ammonia is a chemical. Its formula is NH3 (not to be confused with Ammonium that has a formula of NH4+). It is made from nitrogen and hydrogen atoms.

[[Alkali]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

In chemistry, an alkali is an aqueous (from water) solution with a pH value of more than 7.

The word 'Alkali' comes from the Arabic 'qali' meaning 'from the ashes' since ashes mixed with water used as cleaning products (such as soaps) are made of alkali materials  

An alkali is where a base is dissolved in water. Often it is the salt of an Alkali metal

An alkali is the opposite to an acid and can be neutralised (brought down to pH 7) by adding acid.

[[The White Stripes]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s establishments in Michigan, 1997 establishments in the United States, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, 2011 disestablishments in the United States, American punk bands, American rock bands, Blues bands, Grammy Award winners, Musical duos, Musical groups disestablished in 2011, Musical groups established in 1997, Musical groups from Detroit, Michigan

The White Stripes were an American rock band from Detroit, Michigan. There were two people in the band: 

The garage rock duo were known for their trademark red, white, and black colors and clothing, their frequent use of the number three, and their peppermint motif.

Their debut album was titled The White Stripes. It was released in 1999. Their second album was De Stijl. It was released in 2000. They became very famous in 2001 when they released their third album White Blood Cells. Their fourth album, Elephant, won a Grammy Award. It was released in 2003. Their fifth album, released in 2005, was titled Get Behind Me Satan. Their most recent album, Icky Thump, was released in June 2007.

Jack and Meg White were married when they started the band, but have since divorced. Jack has remarried and has two children, Scarlett and Henry Lee.

After a long break, the White Stripes officially announced the end of the band on February 2, 2011.

[[Millennium Dome]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in London

Millennium Dome is a large dome-shaped building in Greenwich in South East London, UK(now known as The O2). It was built in 1900/2000 to celebrate the beginning of the third millennium. The name was officially changed to The O2 when Telefónica O2 Europe plc  bought the naming rights from the devehutz Entertainment Group.

From 31 December 1999 until 31 December 2000 the Dome and some surrounding buildings were the home of the Millennium Exhibition which was meant to show the best of Britain to the world. The most successful part of the Exhibition was the stage show that was held two or three times each day in the middle of the dome. The show had dozens of dancers and acrobats, music by Peter Gabriel, and a tower that rose out of the dome's floor.

The rest of the Exhibition was not as successful as the Dome's owners had hoped. About 6 and a half million people visited the Exhibition, which was only half the number its owners hoped for.

The dome was sold to US Anschutz Entertainment Group (AEG) and reopened in July 2007 as the O2, an entertainment complex including a 22,000 seat concert and sports venue, cinema, music club and exhibition spaces. Among the first artists to perform there were Bon Jovi and Prince. The Rolling Stones performed there in August 2007, Led Zeppelin played a reunion show there in December 2007, and the Spice Girls took residence in the arena from December 2007 to January 2008.

In 2012, as part of the Summer Olympics in London, the building was renamed the "North Greenwich Arena" and was used to host gymnastics and basketball.

A walkway across the top of the dome's structure has been opened, allowing visitors to cross the roof at a height of 60m. The O2 Roofwalk tourist attraction is now partially  powered by solar energy.

[[Millennium]]

CATEGORIES: Units of time, Millennia

A millennium (plural: millennia) is a time period of one thousand (1000) years. The word millennium is derived from two Latin words mille (that means in English "thousand") and annum ("year").

[[Outlook.com]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft websites, E-mail, 1995 establishments in California

Outlook.com is a free online email, address book and calendar. It is owned by Microsoft. It was started in 1996 as Hotmail. Sabeer Bhatia and Jack Smith created it. In 1997, Microsoft bought Hotmail for about $400 million. They renamed it twice, to MSN Hotmail and Windows Live Hotmail. In 2013, Hotmail became Outlook.com.

Each user that signs up for a Hotmail account will get 5GB worth of storage space and 25GB of space on Windows Live SkyDrive (now OneDrive). Business and organizations can also get Hotmail for their own domain name.

[[J. K. Rowling]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Exeter, British children's writers, English novelists, Harry Potter, Officers of the Order of the British Empire, Royal Society of Literature, Writers from Gloucestershire

Joanne  Rowling GBR, (ˈ "rolling"; born 31 July 1965), writing under the pen names J. K. Rowling and Robert Galbraith, is a British author. She wrote the Harry Potter books. She only uses the name J. K. Rowling for her books: the "K" stands for "Kathleen", which was the first name of her grandmother.

[[Charmed]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 American television series debuts, 2006 American television series endings, 1990s American drama television series, 2000s American drama television series, Charmed, Fantasy television series, Telekinesis in fiction, Television series about sisters, Television series set in San Francisco, WB network shows, English-language television programs, The WB original programming

Charmed is an American television series set in San Francisco. It is the story of three sister witches known as the Charmed Ones who fight demons and warlocks. Charmed was on The WB television network for 8 seasons from 1998 until 2006. Charmed ended production April 2006. Its last episode Forever Charmed was shown on May 21, 2006.

[[Train (disambiguation)]]

Train can mean more than one thing:

[[Media]]

Media may refer to: 

[[Falkland Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Falkland Islands

The Falkland Islands are a group of islands in the South Atlantic Ocean, off the coast of South America. They are an overseas territory of the United Kingdom. Argentina disputes this, and claims their sovereignty.

The Falklands War was fought over their possession during Margaret Thatcher`s time as British Prime Minister. There are many islands in the group but the two biggest are East Falkland and West Falkland. As of the census of 2016, 3,398 people live on them. The people of the islands are British and speak English. The main income for the people is from fishing and sheep farming.

The Falkland Islands are about 300 miles (480 km) east of Argentina. Argentina and the UK had a short war in 1982 because Argentina claims to own the islands. The war lasted 6 weeks and about 1,000 soldiers were killed. The UK defeated Argentina and after this the governments of the two countries would not negotiate (talk) with each other. In 1990 they began to have talks again, but Argentina later refused to continue talks.

Oil and gas has been found below the sea around the islands. There is also oil and gas outside the sea area that belongs to the UK. This is owned by Argentina.

[[Neil Armstrong]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2012 deaths, American deists, American astronauts, American aviators, Apollo astronauts, Deaths from surgical complications, Deaths from hemorrhage, Scientists from Cincinnati, Ohio, Congressional Gold Medal recipients

Neil Alden Armstrong (August 5, 1930 – August 25, 2012) was an American astronaut and engineer and is known as the first person to walk on the moon. On July 20, 1969, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed on the moon in a small spacecraft that had been sent to the moon using the Saturn V rocket. The mission was called Apollo 11. They both walked on the moon, and millions of people watched and heard this event on live television. 

He earned a BSc degree in Aeronautical Engineering from the Purdue University and an MSc degree in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Southern California. In 1970 he received an Honorary Doctorate of Engineering from the Purdue University. In 1971 he became professor of aerospace engineering at the University of Cincinnati. After graduating (1955) from Purdue University, he joined the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, then known as the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, serving as a civilian test pilot at Edwards Air Force Base, Lancaster, Calif.

In 2005 he received the Honorary Doctorate of letters from the University of Southern California. The Houston Chronicle newspaper reported on October 1, 2006, that Australian computer programmer Peter Shann Ford found the missing "a" from Armstrong's famous first words on the Moon. Ford reported that he downloaded the audio recording from a NASA web site and analyzed it using editing software originally intended for use with hearing disabled people. Armstrong is said to have been pleased with Ford's finding of the missing "a".

[[Caretaker]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

A caretaker is someone who has the job of looking after a building. For example, the building could be a school or shop.

[[Samuel Beckett]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1989 deaths, Crime victims, Deaths from emphysema, Disease-related deaths in France, Irish novelists, Irish poets, Irish theatre directors, Irish playwrights, Writers from Dublin, Irish Nobel Prize winners

Samuel Barclay Beckett (ˈ; 13 April 1906 – 22 December 1989) was born in Dublin, Ireland. He was a writer of books, plays, and poetry. He also translated other famous works of literature. He was given the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1969.

His most best-known play is Waiting For Godot. It has often been acted on stage and has been on TV.

Beckett was stabbed in Paris in 1938. He died of emphysema in the city in 1989. 

Many writers of plays (playwrights) and others think he is one of the most important writers of the 20th century. There have been many books written about him.

His books are often about people going through hard times, and seeing life as both sad, dark but also funny.

[[Vegetarianism]]

CATEGORIES: Vegetarianism, Diets

Vegetarianism is the practice of not eating meat or fish. People who follow vegetarianism are called vegetarians. Vegetarians eat foods like vegetables, fruit, nuts, beans and grains. Some vegetarians eat or drink animal products, like milk and eggs. They are called lacto-ovo vegetarians. Vegetarian people may like tofu, falafel and other meat substitutes.

There are many reasons for not eating meat.  Vegetarians are healthier than other people in some ways.  Some people think that it is wrong to kill animals; others think that eating meat is bad for their health or the world. This is because land used for animals can be used to grow food. Some people may become vegetarians because their religion says not to eat animals.

Vegetarians who do not drink milk and eat eggs are called vegans. Vegans also often will not use animal products like leather, but many vegetarians do use animal products.

Some people who call themselves vegetarians and eat fish or sea food are not vegetarians, because fish and sea creatures are also animals. Such people are sometimes called pescetarians. There are also many people who are not vegetarians, but do not eat too much animal food. Some eat only very little meat (so-called "flexitarians" or "semi-vegetarians"), some eat only fowl ("pollotarians"). There is also a philosophy called freeganism, it means eating animal products only if  otherwise they will be thrown away to waste - such as food thrown away by restaurants.     

[[British]]

CATEGORIES: United Kingdom

A British person or object comes from the United Kingdom of Great Britain (England, Scotland, Wales) and Northern Ireland. It is sometimes used by the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands (near France). It can also be used for some overseas places like Gibraltar (near Spain) or the Falkland Islands (near South America).

The term "British" is often used to describe something unique to the UK, for example British people, 'the British way of life' or 'the British weather'.

A British person can also be called a Briton. A unique symbol of the "British" is the Union Jack flag which is recognised globally as a symbol of the United Kingdom. The flag is made up of a combination of the flags of the countries that are part of the United Kingdom.

The British Isles are Great Britain, Ireland, and some smaller islands. The British Isles include the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.

Although being British is a collective identity, the countries of England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, and Wales have separate identities and flags which make them unique.

[[Think Quest]]

CATEGORIES: Websites

ThinkQuest was an educational website. It was used by students of schools in the United States and other countries. It was run by the Oracle Education Foundation.

As of July 1, 2013, ThinkQuest was discontinued.

[[Terry Gilliam]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Actors from Minnesota, American cartoonists, American movie directors, British movie directors, Monty Python, Writers from Minnesota

Terry Gilliam (born November 22, 1940) is an American-British cartoonist and filmmaker. He was born in Minnesota and grew up in California, but he now lives in England and is a British citizen.

He was a member of the British comedy team Monty Python. He designed animated sequences and acted in both their TV show and movies. He also directed the movies Jabberwocky (1976), Time Bandits (1981), Brazil (1985), Baron Münchhausen (1989), Fisher King  (1991), 12 Monkeys (1996), Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998), and The Brothers Grimm (2005).

[[John Cleese]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Actors from Somerset, Actors who played Q, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, BAFTA Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, English comedians, English movie actors, English movie producers, English radio actors, English screenwriters, English stage actors, English television actors, English television personalities, English television producers, English television writers, English voice actors, Monty Python, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Writers from Somerset

John Marwood Cleese (born 27 October 1939) is an English actor, voice actor  and writer. He was born in Weston-super-Mare, England. He graduated from Downing College, Cambridge. Cleese has a degree in law. He was a member of the comedy team, Monty Python. He starred in the television sitcom, Fawlty Towers that he co-wrote with his first wife, Connie Booth, who played the role of Polly Sherman on the show. He plays the role of Q in some of the James Bond movies.

[[Arthur Conan Doyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 births, 1930 deaths, Scottish writers, Knights of Grace of the Order of St John, Arthur Conan Doyle, Former Roman Catholics

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (22 May 1859 – 7 July 1930) was a Scottish doctor and author. He is well known because he wrote short stories about the detective Sherlock Holmes. He also wrote science fiction and historical stories. 

He became an  agnostic by the time he left school. He studied medicine at Edinburgh University from 1876 to 1881. He wrote short stories in his spare time. In 1882, he started working as a doctor in Southsea. He carried on writing short stories while he waited for patients. His first Sherlock Holmes story that was published was A Study in Scarlet.

Doyle's great gifts as a writer were story-telling and character. He created really memorable characters. Holmes' gift for deduction has been copied many times in fiction. The character was probably based on a doctor called Joseph Bell. Holmes himself and Watson were balanced by the evil genius Moriarty, one of the great villains in fiction.

After A Study in Scarlet came The Sign of the Four, The Valley of Fear and The Hound of the Baskervilles. The other Holmes stories were published in the Strand Magazine. They were later collected together in five volumes, starting with The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes.

Conan Doyle also wrote The Lost World, published in 1912. In it, Professor Challenger and his companions travel to find a large plateau in South America where dinosaurs still live.  

[[Muslims]]

CATEGORIES: Muslims, Islam, Quranic words and phrases, Religious identity

Muslims are people who have professed belief in Islam. As believers, they worship the One God and revere Prophet Muhammad as the last messenger of God. Additionally, they also believe in all the prophets which preceded Prophet Muhammad and the holy books which they brought, such as the Psalms, Torah, and the Gospel. A fundamental article of faith in Islam is belief in the Day of Judgement, when all humanity will be recompensed for their deeds in this world. Muslims believe in angels, as well as in predestination.

[[Ray Charles]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2004 deaths, Deaths from hepatitis, Deaths from liver failure, Actors from Florida, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), African American actors, African American musicians, American jazz musicians, American movie actors, American R&B singers, American R&B musicians, American singer-songwriters, American soul musicians, American television actors, Kennedy Center honorees, Musicians from Georgia (U.S. state), Musicians from Florida, Singers from Florida, Singers from Georgia (U.S. state), People from Albany, Georgia, Atlantic Records artists, Warner Bros. Records artists

Ray Charles (born Ray Charles Robinson) (September 23, 1930 – June 10, 2004) was an American musician.

Charles was born in Albany, Georgia and was raised in Greenville, Florida. When he was six he started going blind and was completely blind by age 7. He played jazz, soul, and R&B music. Charles never knew exactly why he lost his sight, though there are sources which suggest his blindness was due to glaucoma. He attended school at the St. Augustine School for the Deaf and the Blind in St. Augustine, Florida. He also learned how to write music and play various musical instruments. While he was there, his father died, and his mother died five years later. Charles died in 2004 from liver failure.

[[Jalisco]]

CATEGORIES: Jalisco, States of Mexico

Jalisco is a state of Mexico. The capital of Jalisco is Guadalajara. It is next to the Pacific Ocean and the states of Nayarit, Zacatecas, Aguascalientes, San Luis Potosí, Guanajuato, and Michoacán. It also has half of the Chapala Lake.

[[Ferrari]]

CATEGORIES: Ferrari, Italian automobile companies

Ferrari is an Italian automobile company that makes fast luxurious automobile. They are made in Italy and are very expensive. They usually cost $150,000 - $1,500,000.

Ferraris first car was the Ferrari 125 S 

Ferrari has a rich racing history and is a well known premium automobile brand. The fastest street Ferrari is the F50 GT1, which can go over 370 kph (about 222 mph).

The most powerful Ferrari is the FXX, which has about 800 horsepower. The FXX is a lighter, improved version of the F60 Enzo; it is Ferrari's most exclusive model. It is basically a race car that you can buy from Ferrari. The automobile is so extreme (completely flat tires, low ride height, and no roadcar safety features such as Airbags) that it cannot be driven on roads legally. Ferrari will keep it for you at their Factory in Maranello in Italy. You can go to Italy and drive it on their private race track, or have it transported to another race track around the world, the same as if you were driving for a racing team. Thirty have been built and all but two were sold to customers for $2,500,000 each. Ferrari gave one to seven-time Formula 1 World Champion Michael Schumacer, who had driven for Ferrari for ten years when he retired in 2006, having brought Ferrari much success. Ferrari made his FXX different by painting it black. The other twenty-nine are either red or white, with stripes painted in the other colour.

[[Fiat]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 establishments in Europe, Italian automobile companies, Turin, 1890s establishments in Italy

[[Daihatsu]]

CATEGORIES: Toyota, 1907 establishments in Asia, 1900s establishments in Japan

The Daihatsu Motor Company Ltd. makes small cars and trucks. The company is part of the same manufacturing group that includes Toyota Motor Ltd. The company was set up in 1907. Examples of their cars are the Daihatsu Charade, the Rocky Four Wheel Drive SUV and the Daihatsu Copen. Daihatsu cars and trucks are notable for their rugged construction and high level of finish. After a brief, unsuccessful attempt at the U.S. market toward the end of the 20th century, the company withdrew from the U.S. in 1999. The Subaru Sambar is also made by this company. 

[[Hydrocarbon]]

CATEGORIES: Hydrocarbons

A hydrocarbon is a type of chemical compound. It is made of only hydrogen and carbon atoms.

They can be found in crude oil and are separated by fractional distillation (which means they are separated into different groups). The hydrogen and carbon are bonded with non-polar covalent bonds. Because of its lack of polar covalent bonds, hydrocarbons cannot create hydrogen bonds with water and are hydrophobic.

[[Shanghai]]

CATEGORIES: Shanghai

Shanghai (上海, zɑ̃.hɛ; Mandarin pronunciation: AUD) is the biggest city in China and one of the world's largest cities. It had about 24,000,000 people in 2017. It is so big and important that it is a special province-level city ("municipality"), like Beijing, Tianjin, and Chongqing. Right now, it is the biggest port in the world.

[[Hunter S. Thompson]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2005 deaths, American journalists, American novelists, Suicides by firearm in the United States, Writers from Louisville, Kentucky, Writers who committed suicide

Hunter Stockton Thompson (July 18, 1937 – February 20, 2005) was an American writer.

He was known for a unique style of writing which he called Gonzo journalism, where the writer writes about himself trying to write about what was happening around him. 

He was born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky and spent most of his adult life on his ranch in Colorado. He committed suicide in Woody Creek, Colorado by shooting himself in the head. His main topic was the health of the American Dream.

[[Johnny Depp]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Actors from Kentucky, Actors from Florida, American movie actors, American movie directors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Musicians from Kentucky, People from Owensboro, Kentucky, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

John Christopher "Johnny" Depp II (born June 9, 1963) is an American actor, musician, philanthropist, and producer.

[[Uncle John's Bathroom Reader]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, Non-fiction books

Uncle John's Bathroom Readers is the name of a series of books aimed at people who like to read while using the restroom. The books are full of trivia.

The books were first published in 1988. 

[[Catalonia]]

CATEGORIES: Catalonia

Catalonia (Cataluña; Catalunya; Catalonha) is a Spanish autonomous community. It is south of the eastern Pyrenees, and has a northern border with France. Catalonia is made up of four provinces: Barcelona, Tarragona, Girona (Gerona) and Lleida (Lérida). It has a population of over 7 million people. Catalonia has three official languages: Catalan, Spanish and Occitan. The last is spoken in a small region of northern Catalonia that borders France and is  known in Occitan as Val d'Aran.

The capital of Catalonia is the Barcelona, the home of the Olympic Games in 1992. and is on the Mediterranean Coast. Between Costa del Garraf and Costa del Maresme, Barcelona very popular in summer for tourists, foreign or national.

The Catalan people have autonomy within Spain and so they have their own local government and their own police and some control over their own community. In September 2005, the Catalan Parliament decided to call Catalonia a 'nation' in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which was approved in 2006. According to the Spanish Constitution, Spain is a group of historical nationalities and regions, but that declaration has no judicial status since it appears in only the preamble to the constitution.

Catalonia is one of Southern Europe's most prosperous regions, mostly because industrialization, especially in the textile industry, began in it earlier and took place faster than in other Spanish territories. The region is also greener than Southern Spain as it gets more rain, and it has different kinds of crops agrown. Catalonia, especially the northern part, is much less hot than the rest of Spain.

On 27 October 2017, Catalonia declared independence from Spain after a vote in parliament, but that has not been recognised by the international community.

[[Civil engineering]]

CATEGORIES: technology, construction, Civil engineering

Civil engineering is the term for the work of designing and building infrastructure. It usually means large structures, like bridges, dams, buildings, and tunnels. It also covers complicated networks such as water, irrigation and sewerage networks. It also covers the construction of houses and homes. Civil engineers can be involved in all stages in the life of infrastructure, from planning and construction to maintenance and demolition.  Civil engineering often overlaps with architecture.

Civil engineering has many different areas or disciplines.  Some important areas are geotechnical, structures, environmental, construction management, hydrology, transportation, and materials. It is important for civil engineers to have an understanding of all these disciplines as projects often involve many of them at the same time.

Civil engineers are responsible for lots of the things that are required for a society to function properly. Safe water supplies, sewage treatment, roads, railways and buildings are all part of civil engineering.

To work in civil engineering requires training. Construction workers will train at a center and 'on the job' (training while doing the job), sometimes with apprenticeship. 

To be a professional in civil engineering requires study at a university or college. Civil engineers often study subjects like structures, materials, physics and calculus.

The profession of civil engineering is represented by professional bodies in various countries. In the UK the Institution of Civil Engineers promotes civil engineering as a discipline and supports engineers throughout their careers. The American Society of Civil Engineers performs a similar task in the USA. 

Professional engineers often choose to become Chartered Engineers. Chartership shows employers and clients that they are both qualified and experienced in their jobs. Civil engineers usually have to write a big essay and take an interview with a panel of experienced engineers to gain chartership.

[[Comparison]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

A comparison is an evaluation of similarities and differences.

[[Golden Gate Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures completed in the 20th century, Buildings and structures in San Francisco, Seven Wonders of the Modern World, Steel bridges, Suspension bridges, Marin County, California, Landmarks in San Francisco, 1937 establishments in the United States, 1930s establishments in California, California Historical Landmarks, Bridges in the San Francisco Bay Area

The Golden Gate Bridge is a suspension bridge that crosses over the San Francisco Bay, going from San Francisco to Marin County, in the U.S. state of California. It was opened for use in 1937. When the bridge was finished, its length of 9,266 ft (2824 m) made it the longest bridge in the world until 1964. It carries U.S. Route 101 and California State Route 1. There is also a footpath for people and bicycles.

[[Kitchen]]

CATEGORIES: Rooms

The kitchen is the room in the house where food is cooked. Sometimes, people eat in their kitchens, too. Hotels, schools, and places where people work often have kitchens as well. A person who works in a kitchen in one of these places may be a kitchen worker or a chef (depending on where he/she cooks). An outdoor kitchen at a campsite might be placed near a well, water pump, or water tap, and it might provide tables for food preparation.

[[Software engineering]]

CATEGORIES: Software, Engineering, Computer science

Software engineering is a field of engineering, for designing and writing programs for computers or other electronic devices.  A software engineer, or programmer, writes software and compiles the software to make instructions the computer can follow. 

Good quality software is easier to fix and add new features. Good documentation and good design are parts of good software. Becoming a software engineer requires experience and practice writing code. Software engineering may be very difficult work.   The software release life cycle includes getting the requirements, planning, writing, documenting and testing the software before it is released. When it is released, it is given to other people to use, who are called the "end users". Good software should be user friendly, which means it is easy to use.

[[Student]]

CATEGORIES: Learning, People

A student is a person who goes to school and is learning something. Students can be children, teenagers, or adults who are going to school, but it may also be other people who are learning, such as in college or university. A younger student is often called a pupil. Usually, students will learn from a teacher or a lecturer if at university. They also do much reading. A student can also be a person studying for a specific profession.

[[Suburb]]

CATEGORIES: Cities

A suburb is an area of a town or city, a little away from Downtown, where there are fewer big buildings and mainly houses, schools and shops. Such places are called suburban areas or suburban districts. Sometimes, the suburbs cover a very large area. The suburbs are part of the metropolitan area and may be legally part of the main city.

Since the Industrial revolution, urbanization has spread very quickly and far. Transport in the form of trams, buses, trains and cars allows commuting from distant homes to work in the inner city. This led to the growth of suburbs as residential areas. Housing commonly includes Detached houses and semi-detached houses and flats. Houses are built farther apart than in the inner city and there is often space for gardens and parks.

As cities grow outwards, they begin to take over the surrounding countryside. Authorities have created Green belts on the undeveloped land around a city to prevent urban sprawl and to prevent the towns and cities merging into one. They also encourage development within the town, and protect the countryside. The need for new houses, particularly large detached and semi-detached houses in pleasant surroundings, means that some areas of green belt land have been built on and others are threatened. That's because it is cheaper to build on empty land than to redevelop brownfield sites in older parts of the town or city.  

[[Skyscraper]]

CATEGORIES: Skyscrapers

A skyscraper is a very tall high-rise building, usually more than 152 metres (500 feet) in height.  Most skyscrapers are built in urban areas such as cities, and they are very common in the central business district (also called downtown) areas of many large cities including New York City, Chicago, London, Paris, Sydney, Beijing, Berlin, Toronto, Moscow, Hong Kong and Tokyo. 

[[Integer]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory, Integers, Mathematics

In mathematics, integers are the natural numbers and their negatives. Integers can also be shown on a number line as follows:

In particular, zero is also an integer, but it is not positive nor negative. "Integer" is another word for "whole". An integer is a rational number with no "fraction", or part. An integer is a decimal number with all zeros after the decimal separator. For example, the integer 17 is the same as the decimal 17.0 or 17.0000.

The sum of integers is an integer. The difference between integers is an integer. The product of integers is an integer (for example, (12 + 2345 x  (67 - 8) ) x 9 is an integer). An integer divided by an integer is sometimes not an integer (as in the case of 123 / 45).

To sum up, an integer is a whole number that has no decimals.

[[Natural number]]

CATEGORIES: Number theory

There is no largest natural number. The next natural number can be found by adding 1 to the current natural number, producing numbers that go on "forever". There is no natural number that is infinite in size. Any natural number can be reached by adding 1 enough times to the smallest natural number.

[[Golden Rule]]

CATEGORIES: Religion, Philosophy, Phrases

The Golden Rule is a moral which says treat others as you would like them to treat you. This moral in various forms has been used as a basis for society in many cultures and civilizations. It is called the 'golden' rule because there is value in having this kind of respect and caring attitude for one another.

People of many religions see the value of this mandate and have similar expressions. In Christianity, Jesus Christ taught this idea to his disciples and others when he gave his Sermon on the Mount. It is recorded in the Holy Bible in the book of Matthew, Chapter 7 and verse 12. Jesus explained to his listeners that all the things that were recorded in the Jewish law and that the prophets had taught about concerning morality was summed up in this one rule. The context of this statement (Matthew 7) is about God's mercy and kindness. The principle that was shared is to not always treat others as they might deserve to be treated, as we may judge some as undeserving, but instead to always be merciful and charitable, not withholding good.

In other religions and belief systems there is a similar concept of "the ethic of reciprocity", also called the Golden Rule. They usually give a similar idea, although sometimes it has been expressed in the form such as "Do not treat others as you would not like to be treated."

One of the earliest rules of this type is from the Old Testament days of Moses: "Love thy neighbor as thyself" (Leviticus 19:18).  Similar rules have also appeared over time: 

[[Leicester]]

CATEGORIES: Leicester, Unitary authorities

Leicester (Leicester.ogg) is a city in the East Midlands region of England and it is the county town of Leicestershire. 

In the 2011 census the population of Leicester was about 330,000. The city is also the 11th largest by population in England and the 13th largest in the United Kingdom.

[[Hollywood]]

CATEGORIES: Movie industry, Neighborhoods of Los Angeles

Hollywood is a district in Los Angeles, California. It is very famous around the world as a place where movies and television series are made. It has many different attractions such as the Hollywood Walk of Fame, Universal Studios and the famous Hollywood Sign. Many tourists come to Hollywood to see all of these things. Because of the importance of Hollywood in the movie industry of the United States, the whole industry is often called "Hollywood", even though not all movies are made in Hollywood. This use of the word "Hollywood" is called metonymy.

Many historic Hollywood theatres are used as venues and concert stages to premiere major theatrical releases (Hauptkinostarts) and host the Academy Awards. It is a popular destination for nightlife and tourism and home to the Hollywood Walk of Fame. The Hollywood Walk of Fame was created in 1958 and the first star was placed in 1960. It is a sidewalk along the Hollywood Boulevard and the USA. There are more than 2000 five-points stars on the walk featuring the names of artists working in the entertainment industry.

The first movie to be made entirely in Hollywood was the 17-minute short In Old California. It was directed by D. W. Griffith. It was released in 1910.

On the mountain overlooking Hollywood, there is a sign that is made of very big letters, spelling out its name. It´s called the "Hollywood sign". The huge Hollywood sign was built in 1923.

[[Saturday Night Live]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 American television series debuts, 1970s American comedy television series, 1980s American comedy television series, 1990s American comedy television series, 2000s American comedy television series, 2010s American comedy television series, Entertainment in New York City, NBC network shows, Emmy Award winning programs, English-language television programs

Saturday Night Live (SNL) is a popular American television program. It has been broadcast on Saturday nights since October 11, 1975. It is one of the longest-running television programs in American television. It is broadcast from NBC studios in New York City. The name comes from the fact that the program is aired live on Saturday nights at 11:30 PM EST. This is a rarity in the age of filming and videotape.  SNL is shown in re-runs in the summer and on cable TV. The program usually consists of the following:

Saturday Night Live was created and executive-produced by Lorne Michaels and started in 1975 as NBC's Saturday Night. Many famous comic actors got their starts being cast members on the program.  The show has led to several movies, books, DVDs, and has been the inspiration for a couple of other TV shows. It has been nominated for 183 Emmy Awards and won 42.

"Live from New York, it's Saturday night!" is said near the beginning of every episode.

[[Elvis Presley]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 1977 deaths, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients, Actors from Memphis, Tennessee, Actors from Mississippi, American country musicians, American movie actors, American rock musicians, American rock singers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Tennessee, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Elvis Presley, Singers from Memphis, Tennessee, Singers from Mississippi, Former Roman Catholics, People from Tupelo, Mississippi

Elvis Aaron Presley (January 8, 1935 – August 16, 1977) was an American singer, musician and actor. Is extremely considerate as the most influential and most famous musician of the 20th century, and is widely regarded as a cultural icon.  He was one of the first and   most famous in rock and roll music. He also starred in many movies. His fame has lasted for a long time after his death and is currently still one of the most popular men in history. He is one of the most well-known people from the 20th century in the world. He is so popular that some people know him as only "Elvis". He is also referred to as "The King of Rock and Roll", or just "The King". 

Presley was born in Tupelo, Mississippi.  He and his family moved to Memphis, Tennessee, when he was 13 years old. His music career began there in 1954.  He first started to work with Sam Phillips who was the owner of Sun Records.  RCA Records acquired his contract in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom Parker.  Presley's first RCA single, "Heartbreak Hotel" was released in January 1956.  It was a number-one hit in the US. He became the leading figure of rock and roll after many of television appearances and chart-topping records. His energetic attitude towards his music and his performance style, made him very popular—and controversial.

In November 1956, he made his film debut in Love Me Tender. In 1958, he was drafted into military service.  When he resumed his recording career two years later, he made some of his most successful work.  In the 1960s, Presley gave most of his time to making Hollywood movies.  After a long seven-year break from live performances, he returned to the stage in 1968.  In 1973, Presley was featured in the first globally broadcast concert.  Several years of prescription drug abuse damaged his health, and he died in 1977 at the age of 42.

[[Sherwood Forest]]

CATEGORIES: Forests of England, Nottinghamshire

Sherwood Forest is an ancient woodland near Nottingham, England. It is famous as the home of the mythical outlaw, Robin Hood and his men (and Maid Marian). Legend claims that they lived near the Major Oak. Its branches are now supported by props. 

[[Mount Everest]]

CATEGORIES: Himalayas, Mountains of China, Mountains of Nepal, Tibet

Mount Everest  is the highest mountain on Earth. Mount Everest is in the Himalayas, the highest mountain range in the world. It is about 8848.00 high.

Its peak is on the border of Nepal and China. It is above the Death Zone where the air is too thin for a human being to live, so usually compressed gas tanks with different gas mixes for different altitudes are used when climbing. The Death Zone refers to the parts of Mount Everest that are above 7600 above sea level.

Two other mountains also can be named as the "highest" mountains - the Hawaiian volcano Mauna Loa on Hawaii island is the highest mountain measured from the base underwater to the summit (more than 11 kilometres), and the summit of Mount Chimborazo is the fixed point on Earth which is the greatest distance from the center. This is because of the shape of the Earth: the circumference around the Equator is greater than around the poles.

[[Luanda]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Angola, Capital cities in Africa, 1575 establishments, Establishments in Angola, Establishments in Portugal

Luanda is the capital and the largest city of Angola. Its former name was Loanda. It is a main seaport of the country on the Atlantic Ocean. In 1995, about 3 million people lived there.

It is a center of manufacturing, but very destroyed because of a long civil war.

It was founded by Portuguese in 1575 as São Paulo de Luanda and has been the administrative center of Angola since 1627 (except for 1640–1648). When Angola got independence in 1975, it became the capital of Angola.

[[Pepsi]]

CATEGORIES: Soft drinks

Pepsi is a carbonated cola soft drink made by PepsiCo. A can of Pepsi (330ml) has 8 cubes of sugar in it, whereas Coca-Cola has 7.

They often sponsor (help fund/advertise on an event) sports events and music events, like the Super Bowl. Pepsi also has huge sponsorships for the MGM Mirage hotels in Las Vegas, Nevada. They only serve Pepsi products at the hotels.

Pepsi comes in many different flavors, and forms. A few of the different Pepsi types include Diet Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi ONE, Crystal Pepsi, Pepsi Wild Cherry, etc.

[[Penguin]]

CATEGORIES: Penguins, Flightless birds, Animals of Antarctica

Penguins are seabirds in the family Spheniscidae.  They use their wings to travel underwater, but they cannot travel in the air.  They eat fish and other seafood.  Penguins lay their eggs and raise their babies on land.

Penguins live only in the Southern Hemisphere of the world: Antarctica, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa and South America. The furthest north they get is the Galapagos Islands, where the cold Humboldt Current flows past.

[[March 6]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1953]]

CATEGORIES: 1953

1953 (MCMLIII) was 1953.

[[1820]]

CATEGORIES: 1820

[[Cannibalism]]

CATEGORIES: Cannibalism

Cannibalism is where a person eats the flesh of another person. It is also called anthropophagy. Anthropologists are not sure how widespread it was, but it did happen in some societies. It also occurs in non-human animals.

The word 'cannibalism' comes from the Island Carib people of the Lesser Antilles. They got a long-standing reputation as cannibals when their legends were recorded in the 17th century. Some controversy exists over the accuracy of these legends.

Cannibalism was widespread in the past among humans in many parts of the world, continuing into the 19th century in some isolated South Pacific cultures, and to the present day in parts of tropical Africa. Cannibalism was certainly practiced in New Guinea and in parts of the Solomon Islands, and flesh markets existed in some parts of Melanesia. Fiji was once known as the 'Cannibal Isles'. Cannibalism has been well documented around the world, from Fiji to the Amazon Basin to the Congo Basin to the Māori in New Zealand.

[[May 29]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Halloween]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays

Halloween is a celebration on the night of October 31st. It is most practised in the United States and Canada. Children wear costumes and go to people's homes saying "Trick or treat!" to ask for candy (sweets in the UK) and people give it to them. The suggestion is: "Give me a treat or I will play a trick on you."  People mainly dress up as ghosts, witches, or other scary things for Halloween. It is often referred to as ‘the scariest time of the year’.

For Christians it is the eve of All Saints' Day, which begins the three-day observance of Allhallowtide.  This covers the three days – October 31 (All-Hallows Eve or Hallowe'en), November 1 (All Saints) and November 2 (All Souls).  All Hallows' is a Christianized holiday and originated in Ireland, it also has pagan roots.

[[Frida Kahlo]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1954 deaths, Bisexual people, Communists, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, Deaths from bronchopneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Mexico, LGBT artists, Mexican painters, People with disabilities

Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderón  (6 July 1907 – 13 July 1954), usually known as Frida Kahlo, was a Mexican painter. She was known for her surreal and very personal works. She was married to Diego Rivera, also a well-known painter.

She was born in Coyoacán, Mexico. She had polio that left her disabled when she was 6 years old and some people think that she may have had spina bifida (a birth defect affecting the development of part of the spine) as well. She studied medicine and was going to become a doctor. Because of a traffic accident at age 18 which badly injured her, she had periods of severe pain for the rest of her life. After this accident, Kahlo no longer continued her medical studies but took up painting. She used ideas about things that had happened to her. Her paintings are often shocking in the way they show pain and the harsh lives of women, especially her feelings about not being able to have children. Fifty-five of her 143 paintings are of herself. She was also influenced by native Mexican culture, shown in bright colors, with a mixture of realism and symbolism. Her paintings attracted the attention of the artist Diego Rivera, whom she later married. She was openly bisexual and was a communist. She died of a pulmonary embolism caused by bronchopneumonia in Coyoacán.    

Kahlo's work is sometimes called "surrealist", and although she organized art shows several times with European surrealists, she herself did not like that label.January 2010 Her attention to female themes, and the honesty in her painting them, made her something of a feminist cult figure in the last decades of the 20th century. Some of her work is seen at the Frida Kahlo Museum, found in her birthplace and home in suburban Mexico City.

[[1932]]

CATEGORIES: 1932

[[Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 books, 20th century American novels, Las Vegas, Nevada in fiction, Works about drugs, Autobiographies

Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream is a book written by Hunter S. Thompson. The book is based on an article Thompson wrote for Rolling Stone magazine. It was later made into a movie directed by Terry Gilliam and starring Johnny Depp and Benicio Del Toro.

[[Graham Chapman]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 1989 deaths, Cancer deaths in England, Deaths from oropharyngeal cancer, Disease-related deaths in Kent, English comedians, English movie actors, English physicians, English screenwriters, English television actors, English television writers, Entertainers from Leicestershire, Gay men, Monty Python, People from Leicester, Writers from Leicestershire

Graham Chapman (8 January 1941 – 4 October 1989) was a British actor, comedian and writer. He was most famous as a member of Monty Python. He was openly gay and was in a long-term relationship with writer David Sherlock. Chapman was born in Leicester. He studied medicine at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. He died of oropharyngeal cancer in Maidstone, Kent.

[[Michael Palin]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Actors from Yorkshire, Alumni of the University of Oxford, BAFTA Award winners, British television writers, Comedians from Yorkshire, English movie actors, English television actors, English television presenters, English voice actors, Entertainers from Sheffield, Monty Python, Television personalities from Yorkshire, Writers from Yorkshire

Sir Michael Edward Palin KCMG CBE (born 5 May 1943) is an English actor, comedian and author.

Palin was born in Broomhill, Sheffield, West Riding of Yorkshire. He studied modern history at Brasenose College, Oxford. 

He became famous as a member of Monty Python in the 1970s. Afterwards he had his own television series, Ripping Yarns, and also appeared in many movies, such as A Fish Called Wanda. Over the last 20 years, he has become very well known as a television travel broadcaster ("Around The World in 80 Days", etc.).

[[Terry Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2020 deaths, British historians, British screenwriters, Deaths from primary progressive aphasia, Monty Python, Welsh movie actors, Welsh television actors

Terry Jones (1 February 1942 – 21 January 2020) was a Welsh actor, writer, comedian, screenwriter, film director and historian. He was a member of Monty Python.

Jones was born on 1 February 1942 in Colwyn Bay, Denbighshire, Wales. He was married to Alison Telfer, and later to Anna Söderström.

In September 2016 it was announced that Jones had been diagnosed with primary progressive aphasia, a rare form of dementia that impairs the ability to speak and communicate, and that he was no longer able to give interviews. On 21 January 2020, Jones died from problems caused by the disease, at his home in North London, aged 77.

[[New York (state)]]

CATEGORIES: New York, 1788 establishments in the United States

New York, officially the State of New York, is a state of the United States and was one of the original Thirteen Colonies, which were the first thirteen states to make up the US. New York is in the northeastern United States, bordered by Lake Ontario and Canada on the north, Lake Erie and Canada on the west, Pennsylvania on the west and south, Vermont, Massachusetts, and Connecticut on the east, and New Jersey on the south in the eastern parts of the state. 

New York was originally New Netherland, started by the Dutch Empire in the early 17th century.  Late in the century, it surrendered to an English fleet during the Anglo-Dutch Wars and became part of the British Empire. About half the Dutch colony was given to neighboring English colonies. The Battle of Long Island, Battle of Saratoga, and other important battles of the American Revolution were fought in New York and it joined the new United States. The slave trade brought many black people into the state, where they were forced to work for white colonists.

The United States Census Bureau says that, as of 2005, New York had the fourth most people (population) in the United States, after California, Texas, and Florida. New York's estimated population is 19,297,729.

[[Rolling Stone]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 establishments in the United States, American magazines, Music magazines

For the page about the band, see The Rolling Stones.

Rolling Stone is an American popular culture magazine. It mainly features articles about music, as well as sports, movies, and celebrities. It also features movie and album reviews, "greatest of all time" lists, and political editorials and commentary. 

It was founded in 1967 in San Francisco, California.

Some of the magazine's famous staffers include Hunter S. Thompson, Peter Travers, Ralph Steadman, PJ O'Rourke, Cameron Crowe (whose experience for the magazine lead him to create the movie, Almost Famous), and Annie Leibowitz.

[[Ralph Steadman]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoonists, British illustrators, 1949 births, Living people, People from Manchester

Ralph Steadman (born Wallasey, 15 May 1949) is a British cartoonist and illustrator. He is best known for his artwork for the books and articles of Hunter S. Thompson.

[[Tunisia]]

CATEGORIES: Tunisia, Members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, 1956 establishments in Africa

Tunisia, officially the Republic of Tunisia, is a country in North Africa. Tunis is its capital.

[[1972]]

CATEGORIES: 1972

1972 (MCMLXXII) was 1972.

[[1979]]

CATEGORIES: 1979

1979 (MCMLXXIX) was 1979.

[[Malaysia]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 establishments in Asia, States and territories established in the 1960s, Current monarchies, Malaysia, Members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation

Malaysia is a country in Southeast Asia. The federal constitutional monarchy consists of thirteen states and three federal territories, separated by the South China Sea into two regions, Peninsular Malaysia and Borneo's East Malaysia. Peninsular Malaysia shares a land and maritime border with Thailand and maritime borders with Singapore, Vietnam, and Indonesia. East Malaysia shares land and maritime borders with Brunei and Indonesia and a maritime border with the Philippines and Vietnam. Kuala Lumpur is the national capital, largest city and the seat of the legislative branch of the federal government. The nearby planned capital of Putrajaya is the administrative capital; which represents the seat of both the executive branch (Cabinet, federal ministries and agencies) and the judicial branch of the federal government. With a population of over 110 million, Malaysia is the world's 43rd-most populous country. The southernmost point of continental Eurasia is in Tanjung Piai. In the tropics, Malaysia is one of 17 megadiverse countries, home to a number of endemic species. 

The country is multi-ethnic and multi-cultural, with most people being Malay, but there are also Chinese and Indians. Its official language is Malay written in the Latin alphabet. English is a recognised language and also the official language in Sarawak state along with Malay. Tamil and Chinese is also often used. There are over 130 other languages spoken in Malaysia, with 94 in Malaysian Borneo and 40 on the peninsula. Islam is the official religion, but non-Malay citizens have the freedom to practice other religions.

[[Mickey Mouse]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional mice and rats, Kingdom Hearts characters, Mickey Mouse universe characters

Mickey Mouse is a cartoon character created in 1928 at Walt Disney Animation Studios.  The character serves as the mascot of The Walt Disney Company.

He is the Walt Disney company's mascot. He is the main character in Fantasia. Mickey Mouse also has television shows with other characters including Donald Duck, Goofy, Minnie Mouse, and Pluto. Minnie Mouse is his girlfriend. His birthday is November 18, 1928. This is the same day as Minnie Mouse.

[[HIV]]

CATEGORIES: Sexually transmitted diseases, Viruses, HIV/AIDS

[[Frank Zappa]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Baltimore, Maryland, Actors from California, Actors from Florida, American jazz musicians, American rock guitarists, American songwriters, American television actors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from prostate cancer, Multi-instrumentalists, Musicians from California, Musicians from Florida, Musicians from Maryland, 1940 births, 1993 deaths

Frank Vincent Zappa (December 21, 1940 - December 4, 1993) was an American musician and composer. He was known for his strange style of music, which was often weird and funny. He made various types of music and many albums. Zappa worked with many other musicans, most notably his 1960s group The Mothers of Invention and his friend and blues singer Captain Beefheart.  Some people think he is the best composer in popular music or even any non-classical music.

Zappa was born in Baltimore, Maryland, but spent most of his life in Southern California. He grew up in Baltimore, in Florida, and in Monterey, Claremont and El Cajon, California. His mother was of French and Italian descent; his father was an immigrant from Sicily. Zappa had four children with his wife Gail. They gave them all very unusual names: Moon Unit, Dweezil, Ahmet, and Diva.

Zappa was openly against drugs, Televangelism, and censoring music. He often tried to see what he could get away with.

Zappa died from prostate cancer in Los Angeles, California.

[[Tasmania]]

CATEGORIES: Tasmania, Australasia, Gondwana, Islands of Australia

Tasmania (Palawa Kani: Lutruwita, Bruny Island Tasmanian: Lutruwita) is a large island off the southern coast of mainland Australia. It is a state of Australia. Its capital and the largest city is Hobart. The island was joined to the mainland until the end of the most recent ice age about 10,000 years ago.

It is the home of rare animals such as eastern quolls and Tasmanian devils.

[[M*A*S*H]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 television series debuts, 1983 disestablishments in the United States, 1970s American workplace television series, 1970s workplace comedy television series, 1980s American workplace television series, 1980s workplace comedy television series, 1980s workplace drama television series, American black comedy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama television series, American novels, American war movies, American workplace comedy television series, American workplace drama television series, Black comedy television series, English-language movies, Korean War, Movies set in the 1950s

M*A*S*H was an American media franchise that had several novels and a movie. Several television series have also been based on it. These include M*A*S*H (movie) (1970), M*A*S*H (TV show) (1972),  AfterMASH and Trapper John, M.D..

[[Donald Sutherland]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Academy Award Honorary Award winners, Canadian movie actors, Canadian movie producers, Canadian stage actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Order of Canada, People from New Brunswick, Satellite Award winners

Donald McNichol Sutherland OC (born July 17, 1935) is a Canadian actor. He has appeared in more than 100 movie and television shows.

Sutherland is known for his roles in Fellini's Casanova, Klute, Don't Look Now, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, JFK, Ordinary People, Pride & Prejudice, and The Hunger Games. He is the father of actor Kiefer Sutherland.

[[Canadian (disambiguation)]]

Canadian may refer to:

Canadian may also refer to:

[[Paul Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Living people, Privy Councillors (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Quebec, Politicians from Montreal

Paul Martin Jr. CAN (born August 28, 1938) is a Canadian politician. He was the 21st Prime Minister of Canada. He was also the leader of the Liberal Party of Canada. He became prime minister December 12, 2003, when Jean Chrétien stepped down. He won an election on June 28, 2004, because the Liberals won more seats than the other political parties; but they did not win a majority of the seats, so he led a minority government. There was another election on January 23, 2006; his party lost this election, so Stephen Harper became the next prime minister.

Martin was greatly respected, as a Finance Minister, around the world for his fiscal management, because of the growth in the economy and for taking the government out of deficit.

His tenure as Prime Minister is generally seen as a disaster by most Canadians.

Martin was born in Windsor, Ontario. His father was a member of the Canadian House of Commons for thirty-three years and was a part of the cabinet. Martin graduated from the University of Toronto in 1961 with a B.A. in history and philosophy and from the University of Toronto Law School in 1965. He married Sheila Martin in 1965.

He was elected to parliament from the riding of LaSalle-Émard in Montreal, Quebec in 1988. He was finance minister from 1993 until 2002. He became known for balancing the budget (ending government borrowing of money). In 2003, he was elected leader of the Liberal party, and was appointed prime minister one month later.

Mr. Martin's government made same-sex marriage legal. It also had problems with the Sponsorship scandal in 2004. In 2006, Parliament passed a vote of no confidence, which forced a national election to be held on January 23. The Liberals lost the election and Martin lost his position as prime minister. Soon afterwards, he resigned his position as leader of the Liberal Party.

After fourteen months in office, Paul Martin got the nickname "Mr. Dithers". He was called so by the magazine The Economist. They say this is because he changed his opinion too often.

[[Machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Machine guns

A machine gun is a weapon that can fire one bullet after another as long as the trigger is pulled and there are bullets ready to fire. This is called automatic fire. A more general name for this type of weapon is an automatic weapon. Machine guns fire bullets delivered from a long chain of cartridges called an ammunition ('ammo') belt, or use spring-loaded boxes called magazines. Machine guns are usually divided into heavy-duty machine guns, light machine guns, and sub-machine guns.

Heavy machine guns (HMG) are placed on the ground, supported on a tripod, or on a vehicle. The vehicle would have a support for the gun with a rotating base or turret. Heavy machine guns often need two men to operate it, one to assist with loading ammunition, and one to aim and fire. It always takes two or more men to carry one. Famous examples include the M2 Browning machine gun, the MG42, the M1919 Browning, the M134 minigun, the Type 92 heavy machine gun, and the Maxim gun.

Light machine guns (LMG) are usually carried and fired by one man. Despite the name, an LMG is almost always rested on a bipod or a tripod while firing since the gun is normally too heavy to fire while standing, although some LMGs such as the Bren LMG and the BAR are light enough to be fired without a bipod or tripod when a sling is worn around the user. Famous examples include the Bren, the BAR, the SAW M249, the M240, the RPD, the RPK, the PK, and the M-60.

Submachine guns (SMG) are lighter weapons which fire less powerful bullets (usually pistol bullets). They are much easier to conceal and carry than the heavier versions. Submachine guns have handles (stocks), and are carried by individual soldiers or police officers. Famous examples include the Uzi, the Heckler & Koch MP5, the Thompson (a.k.a. Tommy gun), the MAC-10, the PPSh, and the MP-40.

Assault rifles have automatic capabilities but they are not called machine guns. They are used mainly in semi-automatic fire, and also normally fire lighter bullets than machine guns.

Many heavy machine guns, such as the Browning M2 .50 caliber machine gun, are exact enough to hit distant targets. During the Vietnam War, Carlos Hathcock shot at 7382 ft (2250 m) using a .50 caliber heavy machine gun with a telescopic sight.

[[Robin Hood]]

CATEGORIES: Robin Hood

Robin Hood is a folk hero from the Middle Ages in England. He is a legendary person whom people have told stories about for many years. Robin Hood is one who still remains popular. His story has been featured in books, plays, movies and cartoons as well.

There are many variations of his stories. Usually, Robin Hood is an outlaw who lives in Sherwood Forest near the town of Nottingham, England. His enemies are Prince John (who is temporarily on the throne because his brother, King Richard the Lionheart is away in the Middle East fighting in the Crusades), and the corrupt Sheriff of Nottingham, who abuse their powers and take money from the people who need it. Robin Hood uses his archery skills and his wits to steal the money back, and return it to the poor. Accompanying Robin are his faithful followers The Merry Men. They include Little John. Much the Millers son, Will Scarlet, Friar Tuck and Alan a Dale. Later stories also had a Maid Marian.

[[Basketball]]

CATEGORIES: Basketball, Springfield, Massachusetts, Summer Olympic sports

Sports

''

For that first game of basketball in 1891, Naismith used two half-bushel peach baskets as goals, which gave the sport its name. The students were enthusiastic. After much running and shooting, William R. Chase made a midcourt shot, which was the only score in that historic contest. Word spread about the newly invented game, and numerous associations wrote Naismith for a copy of the rules, which were published in the January 15, 1892, issue of the Triangle, the YMCA Training School's campus paper.

S

The court, where the game is played, is a rectangle, and at both end lines there is a goal called a "hoop" in the shape of a circle basket with the bottom cut out.

In each game of basketball these things are required:

[[Folk hero]]

CATEGORIES: Folklore

A folk hero is a person, who may or may not have existed, and is famous and well liked by people, or people of a certain country. Usually it is someone who helped the common people or fought against the authorities, such as a bad king. People tells stories about folk heroes, most of their stories have been passed down orally, and changed to fit the situations. They usually have a special skill or trait of some sort (Paul Bunyan is very tall).

Some famous folk heroes are:

[[January 1]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

day Starting in the 1200s, January 1 was called New Year's Day. It is a holiday.

[[Seth Green]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, American voice actors, Whedonverse, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Comedians from Pennsylvania, 1974 births, Living people

Seth Benjamin Green (born Seth Benjamin Gesshel-Green; February 8, 1974) is an American actor, comedian, and voice talent.  He became famous in the late 1990s after appearing in many teen movies.  His most notable roles include Scott Evil in the Austin Powers series of movies, Chris Griffin on the television series Family Guy, Patrick Wisely in Scooby-Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed, Dan Mott in Without a Paddle and Daniel "Oz" Osborne on the series Buffy the Vampire Slayer, in which he is cast as Willow Rosenberg's werewolf boyfriend. Green is also the creator of Adult Swim's Robot Chicken.

[[Ashton Kutcher]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Iowa, American movie actors, American movie producers, American television actors, American television personalities, American television producers, Comedians from Iowa, Actors from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Twin people from the United States, 1978 births, Living people, People's Choice Award winners

Ashton Christopher Kutcher, is an American actor, producer, and former model. He became well known when he played Michael Kelso on That '70s Show. In 2003, Kutcher produced and starred in his own series, Punk'd, as the host.

In May 2011, Kutcher was announced as Charlie Sheen's replacement on the series Two and a Half Men. Kutcher's contract was for one year and was believed to be worth nearly $20 million.

[[Linus Torvalds]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Finnish scientists, Computer scientists, Linux, People from Helsinki, American bloggers

Linus Benedict Torvalds is a computer scientist, born December 28, 1969, in Helsinki, Finland.

His parents named him after Linus Pauling. He studied at the University of Helsinki from 1988 to 1996. He became famous because of the success of his operating system, Linux. He started making this system as a student project in 1991. He based it on the popular UNIX operating system. Today, Linux has become the most popular free operating system.

Linus is the leader of the Linux project, which has many members around the world. He is the one person who can make decisions about changes or future development on the operating system. He also made the version control system Git. He now lives with his family in the United States. 

Linus chose the penguin to be the logo of Linux. A picture of a penguin called Tux appears on many desktop computers that run Linux.

[[Thomas Jefferson]]

CATEGORIES: 1743 births, 1826 deaths, American deists, Deaths from uremia, American revolutionaries, Businesspeople from Virginia, Deaths from pneumonia, Democratic Republican party (US) politicians, Founding Fathers of the United States, Governors of Virginia, Presidents of the United States, Signers of the U.S. Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson, United States Secretaries of State, Vice Presidents of the United States, 19th-century American politicians, 18th-century American politicians

Thomas Jefferson (April 13, 1743 –  July 4, 1826) was the third president of the United States. He wrote the Declaration of Independence while others signed it and wrote the Statute of Religious Freedom.

He was also a planter with many slaves, though he freed several people in the Hemings family.

[[Tahiti]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of French Polynesia

Tahiti is an island in the southern Pacific Ocean. It is part of the French Polynesia. Papeete is the capital and largest city. Other major cities are Faaa and Mahina. About 169 674 people live there (2002). The languages that are spoken in Tahiti are French and Tahitian which are both official. In Tahiti (in the Society group) – was claimed by the French in 1768. The Faaa International Airport is the main way of transportation on the island. Air Tahiti Nui is the main plane of the airport which flies to Los Angeles and Paris. Other planes fly to Hawaii, Japan, and other islands in the Pacific Ocean. Air Tahiti flies to other islands in French Polynesia such as Bora Bora.Coconut trees grow along the coast of Tahiti.

[[Geneva (canton)]]

CATEGORIES: Canton of Geneva

Geneva is a canton in Switzerland. The capital of the canton is Geneva City.

The French name is Genève, The German name is Genf, in Italian it is Ginevra.

Geneva is the seat of many institutions of the United Nations. It has about 186.000 inhabitants and a very old university. About 960.000 people live in the urban area. Some of the urban area is in France. Only Zürich has more inhabitants in Switzerland.

[[H. John Heinz III]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 1991 deaths, Aviation deaths in the United States, Politicians from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States representatives from Pennsylvania, United States senators from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians

Henry John Heinz III (October 23, 1938 – April 4, 1991) was an American politician from Pennsylvania and the great-grandson of the founder of H. J. Heinz Company. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1971 to 1977 and was a US senator from 1977-1991. He was killed in a plane crash in 1991.

Heinz married Teresa Simões-Ferreira on February 5, 1966 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The couple had three sons together: H. John Heinz IV, André, and Christopher.

A number of places are named after Heinz, including:

[[The Tempest]]

CATEGORIES: Plays by William Shakespeare

The Tempest is one of William Shakespeare's last comedies. It tells the story of a wizard who drives a ship to the island he lives on, in order to undo something that happened to him in the past. Unlike most of Shakespeare's plays, it does not appear to be based off an earlier story. With one exception of his lesser known play everyday use.

[[Calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars

A calendar is a tool for organizing days. People use calendars to say when something happened, and for planning things that have not happened yet. The calendar gives the days names and numbers, called calendar dates. The dates are usually made based on how things in the sky seem to move. The year and month are based on motions of the Sun and moon. By knowing what day something happened or will happen, people have an easier life. Since the beginning of history, knowing when the seasons would start for crops was very important for farmers and people who eat.

Calendar systems have a beginning time or era. The calendar era is often a religion-based event, such as the birth of Jesus, but it may be a political event such as a coronation or the founding of a state. Dates that are counted from the coronation are called "regnal".

The three principal calendars most used today are the Gregorian, Hebrew, and Islamic calendars. Other calendar systems from many different parts of the world are also used.

[[Randall Cobb]]

CATEGORIES: American boxers, American movie actors, Sportspeople from Texas, Actors from Texas, 1950 births, Living people

Randall "Tex" Cobb (born 1950) was an American boxer from Texas. He fought champion boxer Larry Holmes for the WBC World Heavyweight title at Houston's Astrodome on November 26, 1982. Holmes beat Cobb, winning all 15 rounds on two scorecards, and fourteen out of fifteen on the third (scores of 150-135 twice and 149-136). This fight surprised sportscaster Howard Cosell so much that he said that he would never cover another fight. After this many sportsfans all over the world wrote to Cobb and thanked him for trying. Cobb was a fighter who had hitting power, as shown by his eighth-round knockout win over Earnie Shavers. He was never knocked out. Cobb briefly became a kickboxer and then a Hollywood actor. He has played "bad guys" in movies like The Naked Gun and Raising Arizona.

Cobb also fought Michael Dokes twice during his boxing career, losing both fights.

[[Aquilino Pimentel Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from lymphoma, Presidents of the Senate of the Philippines, Majority leaders of the Senate of the Philippines, Minority leaders of the Senate of the Philippines, Legislative speakers

Aquilino Quilinging Pimentel Jr. (December 11, 1933 – October 20, 2019), also known as Nene, was a politician in the Philippines. 

[[Pat Robertson]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American activists, American Baptists, American conservatives, Anti-Communists, Anti-pornography activists, Christian religious leaders, Southern Baptist Convention, Television evangelists, 1988 United States presidential candidates, Zionists

Marion Gordon "Pat" Robertson (born March 22, 1930) is an American evangelist and host of the 700 Club, a Christian news and talk show on television.  He ran for President in 1988 against George H.W. Bush, but did not win the primaries.  He has said several times that natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina and the 2010 Haiti earthquake, were punishments from God.

[[Full House]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 American television series debuts, 1995 television series endings, 1980s American television series, 1990s American television series, 1990s American sitcoms, Television series set in San Francisco, 1980s American sitcoms, English-language television programs

Full House is an American comedy television series set in San Francisco. It originally aired from 1987 to 1995. It told the story of Danny Tanner (Bob Saget), a man whose wife has died and is left alone with his three daughters, DJ (Candace Cameron), Stephanie (Jodie Sweetin), and Michelle (Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen). He recruits his best friend, Joey Gladstone (Dave Coulier), a childlike stand-up comedian, and his brother-in-law (and the girls' uncle) Jesse Katsopolis (John Stamos), a struggling musican, to move in and help look after the girls.

The series is often criticised for its sickly sweet and unrealistic plotline and corny jokes, even though it ran for many years; some episodes dealt with real problems such as child abuse, drinking, and lying. Yet it has remained, in recent years, one of the very few adult comedy series that parents can watch with their kids.

In August 2014 it was announced that plans were underway to reboot the series which would reunite most of the original cast. In 2016, Fuller House began airing on Netflix.

[[1888]]

CATEGORIES: 1888

This page lists things that happened in the year 1888.

[[Hot Press]]

CATEGORIES: Music magazines

Hot Press is a music and political magazine. It was founded in 1977. The magazine is based in Dublin, Republic of Ireland. It is different from other similar magazines by its anti-establishment opinion and the amount of focus on Irish music, most notably early U2. It is currently edited by Niall Stokes.

[[Alabama Song]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s songs, 1930 works

The "Alabama Song" comes from the 1930 operetta Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny. The music is by Kurt Weill; officially the lyrics are by Bertolt Brecht, but were probably actually written by Elisabeth Hauptmann. The lyrics for the "Alabama Song" are in English (although a specific type of English) and are performed in that language even when the opera is performed in its original German.

The song has often been covered, perhaps most famously in 1967 by The Doors; unsurprisingly, Jim Morrison changed the lyric "Show us the way to the next pretty boy" to "Show me the way to the next little girl."

[[The Doors]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 establishments in California, 1960s American music groups, 1970s American music groups, 1973 disestablishments, 1970s disestablishments in California, American rock bands, Musical groups disestablished in the 1970s, Musical groups established in 1965, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California

The Doors were an American rock band. They were one of the most popular rock groups of all time. Led by singer Jim Morrison, along with Ray Manzarek (keyboards), Robby Krieger (guitar) and John Densmore (drums), the group is thought of today as a major influence on rock music, and they are still just as popular as they ever were, if not more popular.

The group was widely known for its lead singer, Jim Morrison, who was famous for his love of alcohol and illegal drugs. Morrison often sang at concerts after using alcohol and drugs, sometimes so drunk that he could not remember the words to his own songs. Once, Morrison was said to have shown his private parts to the audience, and he was charged with a crime. 

Morrison died in Paris, France, on July 3, 1971. His death is thought to have been caused by a heart attack brought on by a drug overdose.

There is a 1991 movie about them, also called The Doors. It was directed by Oliver Stone and starred Val Kilmer as Jim Morrison.

[[Mickey Gilley]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Musicians from Louisiana, Singers from Louisiana, American country singers, American country musicians

Mickey Gilley (born March 9, 1936) is a country musician and singer. He is a cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis and Jimmy Swaggart. He is best known for his nightclub "Gilley's" which was featured in the movie Urban Cowboy and his hit song "Don't The Girls All Get Prettier At Closing Time".

[[Jerry Lee Lewis]]

CATEGORIES: American rock musicians, Country musicians, Musicians from Louisiana, Singers from Louisiana, Singers from Mississippi, Musicians from Mississippi, 1935 births, Living people

Jerry Lee Lewis (born September 29, 1935) is an American musician. He was born in Ferriday, Louisiana and is a cousin of Mickey Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart. Like other music players who were known by many people around the same time as him Johnny Cash, Elvis Presley, Roy Orbison, and Carl Perkins, he sang gospel and country music before becoming well known for rock and roll. He was known for his wild style of piano playing and songs like "Whole Lotta Shakin' Going On" and "Great Balls of Fire".

Lewis got a career boost, when he performed on The Steve Allen Show. His first son was named Steve Allen Lewis, as a tribute.

At a time when Lewis was very popular, people found out that his third wife, Myra Gale Brown, was a thirteen-year-old distant cousin of his. People thought this was bad, and his career nearly came to an end. In the early 1960s, he made a comeback, but throughout the next two decades (groups of ten years) he suffered many personal problems, including health problems, and divorce. 

Even though he has had problems, he is still active and people think of him as an icon and pioneer of popular music.

A 1989 movie, Great Balls of Fire, starring Dennis Quaid and Winona Ryder, is about his life.

[[Jimmy Swaggart]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, American Pentecostals, People from Louisiana, Television evangelists

Jimmy Lee Swaggert (born March 15, 1935) is an American Pentecostal televangelist (a preacher who gives services on TV). His church, Family Worship Center, is in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Swaggart first started his television ministry in 1975, and it continues today, over 33 years later. The show airs nationally across the U.S. and overseas. The weekly Jimmy Swaggart Telecast and A Study in the Word are shown nationwide and overseas on 78 channels in 104 countries and live over the Internet.May 2012 He preaches a message called "The Cross" which is that you can only get to heaven through Jesus.

Swaggart was born in Ferriday, Louisiana, USA. He is a cousin of musicians Jerry Lee Lewis and Mickey Gilley. Swaggart is married to Frances Swaggart, who hosts the popular SonLife Radio program, Frances and Friends. They have one son, Donnie, who is also a minister. They have three grandchildren, Jennifer, Gabriel and Matthew Swaggart. Gabriel also serves the ministry as pastor of Crossfire Youth Ministries.

He has also been a very controversial figure, too. He was caught with a prostitute in 1987, but later asked God (and the public) for forgiveness. He was caught again in 1991.

[[Johnny Cash]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2003 deaths, Actors from Arkansas, American Baptists, American country musicians, American gospel musicians, American guitarists, American movie actors, American singer-songwriters, American television actors, American writers, Country guitarists, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Johnny Cash, Musicians from Arkansas, American gospel singers

John R. "Johnny" Cash (born J. R. Cash; February 26, 1932 – September 12, 2003) was a Grammy Award-winning American musician, actor and author. He is considered one of the most important musicians of the 20th century. He is well known for his country music, his music spanned many other genres, including gospel, folk and rock and roll. Because of this, he was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and the Gospel Music Hall of Fame. He died from diabetes on September 12, 2003 he was 71 years old.

[[Pluto (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Roman gods and goddesses

Pluto is the god of the underworld in Roman mythology. Pluto was also the god of wealth because diamonds and other jewels come from underground.

A myth about Pluto is that he took Proserpina, who was the daughter of Ceres, to the underworld to be his wife. Ceres cried and did not let plants grow on the Earth. People needed the plants so much that the god Jupiter made Pluto give her up. The deal they worked out was that for six months, Pluto got Proserpina. While Proserpina was in the underworld, no plants could grow on Earth and it was winter. When Proserpina went back to her mother, it was summer. This was how the Romans explained the seasons. Pluto also had a three-headed dog named Cerberus that guarded the gates to the underworld.

The dwarf planet Pluto was named after this god. 

[[Maoism]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the People's Republic of China, Marxism

Maoism is the communist (a plan about how countries should work) idea created by the Chinese man Mao Zedong. Mao believed that peasants, not factory workers, should lead the communist revolution (change in government). China followed Maoism when he became leader, in 1949. This created differences with communism in the USSR and Cuba. Maoism is still practiced in China today, but it has become different since Mao died in 1976. Today the Chinese economy is still considered a communistic economy. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) completely controls all aspects of production and sets workers wages artificially low for the "good of all", which is the basic premise of Maoism. All worker production is also relegated to the overall good and equality of all,  the definition of which is also determined by the state (CCP). This effectively shackles the profit motive (upward wage mobility) for the working class, as upward mobility is all but nonexistent except for those in line with, or actively participating in,  the Chinese Communist Party.

[[C++]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

C++ (pronounced "see plus plus") is a computer programming language based on C. It was created for writing programs for many different purposes. In the 1990s, C++ became one of the most used programming languages in the world.

The C++ programming language was developed by Bjarne Stroustrup at Bell Labs in the 1980s, and was originally named "C with classes". The language was planned as an improvement on the C programming language, adding features based on object-oriented programming. Step by step, a lot of advanced features were added to the language, like operator overloading, exception handling and templates.

C++ https://web.archive.org/web/20200713161758/https://www.programstudio.online/2020/05/introduction-to-c.html runs on a variety of platforms, such as Windows, Mac OS, and the various versions of UNIX. C++ is simple and practical approach to describe the concepts of C++ for beginners https://web.archive.org/web/20200713161758/https://www.programstudio.online/2020/05/introduction-to-c.html to advanced software engineers.

C++ is a general-purpose programing language which means that it can be used to create different variety of applications. C++ is used for variety of application domains.

[[Korean War]]

CATEGORIES: Korean War, Cold War, Wars involving Australia, Wars involving Belgium, Wars involving Canada, Wars involving France, Wars involving Greece, Wars involving New Zealand, Wars involving South Africa, Wars involving the Netherlands, Wars involving the United Kingdom, Wars involving the United States, 1950s in Asia

The Korean War, also known as the Forgotten War,took place between 1950 and 1953 between the Republic of Korea (or South Korea), supported by the armed forces of several countries that were commanded by the United States;, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (or North Korea), supported by the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union. The war began at 4:30 a.m. on June 25, 1950. The fighting stopped on July 27, 1953, after more than two million Koreans kad benn killed, mostly in the North.

Both sides blame each other for starting the war. The north, led by communist Kim Il-Sung, was helped mostly by People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union. There was medical support from Hungary, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria and Poland. Other support came from Mongolia and India. The south, led by nationalist Syngman Rhee, was helped by many countries in the United Nations, and especially by the United States.

The war ended on April 27, but the United States still keeps troops in South Korea in case North Korea ever invades again. Booh Koreas are divided by the Korean Demilitarized Zone, which crosses the 38th parallel.

[[John Landis]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Actors from Chicago, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, Movie directors from Los Angeles, California, Movie directors from Chicago, Movie producers from Los Angeles, California, Movie producers from Chicago, Screenwriters from Chicago, Screenwriters from Los Angeles, California

John Landis (born August 3, 1950) is an American movie director. Landis was born in Chicago, Illinois and raised in Los Angeles, California. He started his career working as a mailboy at 20th Century Fox.

Some of his movies are:

He directed the music videos for Michael Jackson's "Thriller" and "Black or White". Thriller won the Video Vanguard Award for The Greatest Video in the History of the World.

[[March 21]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

It is the traditional date of the March equinox, although it often falls on March 20.

[[Edith Massey]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, 1918 births, 1984 deaths, Actors from San Francisco

Edith Massey (May 25, 1918 - October 24, 1984) was an American actress.

She acted in several of director John Waters' most well-known movies: Multiple Maniacs, Pink Flamingos, Female Trouble, Desperate Living, and Polyester. Waters discovered Massey as a waitress in a Baltimore, Maryland, USA bar he and his friends frequented.

In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Massey capitalized on her Waters infamy by touring as the lead singer of a punk band (Edie and the Eggs) and opening a thrift store in Baltimore called Edith's Shopping Bag.

Director Robert Maier made a documentary short about her in 1975 called Love Letter to Edie.

[[Statue of Liberty]]

CATEGORIES: Statues, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, New York City Designated Landmarks, World Heritage Sites in the United States, Symbols of the United States

The Statue of Liberty (officially named Liberty Enlightening the World and sometimes referred to as Lady Liberty) is a monument symbolising the United States. The statue is placed on Ellis Island, near New York City Harbor.

The statue commemorates the signing of the United States Declaration of Independence. It was given to the United States by the people of France in 1886, to represent the friendship between the two countries established during the American Revolution. It represents a woman wearing a stola, a crown and sandals, trampling a broken chain, and with a torch in her raised right hand and a tabula ansata, or tablet where the date of the Declaration of Independence JULY IV MDCCLXXVI (1776)  is written, in her left hand. The statue is on Liberty Island in New York Harbor, and it welcomes visitors, immigrants, and returning Americans travelling by ship.

[[1875]]

CATEGORIES: 1875

[[Ankst]]

CATEGORIES: British record labels, 1988 establishments in the United Kingdom, 20th century establishments in Wales

Ankst is a Welsh independent record label formed in 1988 at Aberystwyth University. Ankst has been the launch-pad for several popular Welsh artists, including Super Furry Animals and Gorky's Zygotic Mynci. The label is now based in Pentraeth on Anglesey.

[[1988]]

CATEGORIES: 1988

1988 (MCMLXXXVIII) was 1988.

[[April 1]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[January 8]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[October 4]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[February 11]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[T. S. Eliot]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1965 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, American Christians, American essayists, American literary critics, American playwrights, American poets, British Anglicans, British essayists, British Nobel Prize winners, British playwrights, British poets, Deaths from emphysema, Disease-related deaths in England, Harvard University alumni, Literary critics, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Order of Merit, Writers from St. Louis, Missouri

LiteratureThomas Stearns Eliot OM, (26 September 1888 – 4 January 1965), was a poet. He was one of the most influential poets of the 20th century. He also wrote plays and some important essays about literature.

He was born in St. Louis, Missouri, then went to college in Harvard. He spent most of his adult life in London, England. He became a British citizen in 1928.

One famous book of his was written for children and is called The Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats. The songs in the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical Cats are based on poems in it. He also wrote "The Waste Land", a very mysterious, complicated poem that helped start a new style called Modernism. His friend, Ezra Pound, another Modern poet, helped him finish it. His poem "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" and his play Murder in the Cathedral (about Thomas Becket) are also well known.

He was married two times. He worked at a bank in England and later as the head editor of a famous publishing company in London that is now called Faber and Faber. In 1948, he won the Nobel Prize in Literature. He died of emphysema in London.

[[Andrew Lloyd Webber]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Academy Award winning composers, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Cancer survivors, Emmy Award winners, English theatre directors, English composers, Golden Globe Award winning composers, Theatre producers, Grammy Award winners, Members of the House of Lords, People educated at Westminster School, London, Television personalities from London, Tony Award winners, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters

Redlinks

Andrew Lloyd Webber, Baron Lloyd-Webber (born 22 March 1948) is a British composer and impresario of musical theatre. His company, the Really Useful Group, is one of the largest theatre operators in London.

[[October 24]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Bob Kane]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from New York City, American cartoonists, American comics artists, American comics writers, American entertainers, DC Comics, Batman, 1915 births, 1998 deaths

Bob Kane (October 24, 1915 – November 3, 1998) was an American cartoonist. He is best known for creating the superhero Batman with Bill Finger.

[[Batman]]

CATEGORIES: Batman, DC Comics adapted into movies, Fictional characters introduced in 1939, Fictional orphans, Justice League, DC Comics superheroes

Batman is a fictional character created by Bob Kane and Bill Finger in the DC Comics as well as the most well-known superhero in the DC Universe.  Batman is the secret identity of the very rich businessman Bruce Wayne. Batman is one of the most famous and popular superheroes. Often considered to be DC's flagship character and company mascot, he first appeared in comic books and was later used in several radio series, movies, TV programs, books, and video games. There are also many toys and other merchandise dealing with Batman and other characters and items from the world he lives in. Batman lives in the fictional city of Gotham. Batman has a trusty sidekick Robin whose identity has been taken up by various heroes, usually his wards.

[[Val Kilmer]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Cancer survivors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Actors who played Batman, Christian Scientists, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors

Val Kilmer (born December 31, 1959 in Los Angeles, California) is an American actor, best known for his roles in Tombstone, The Doors, Heat and Batman Forever. He was married to Joanne Whalley from 1988 until they divorced in 1996. The couple had a daughter and son.

In January 2015, Kilmer was hospitalized for massive bleeding in his throat. In December 2017, Kilmer said he had a "two-year battle with throat cancer...and a procedure on his trachea has reduced his voice to a rasp and rendered him short of breath."

[[Eva Gabor]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Budapest, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from pneumonia, Hungarian movie actors, Hungarian television actors, Infectious disease deaths in California, 1919 births, 1995 deaths

Eva Gabor (February 11, 1919 – July 4, 1995) was a Hungarian-American actress. She was born in Budapest. She was best known for her role as Lisa Douglas on the television series, Green Acres. Her elder sisters, Zsa Zsa and Magda Gabor, were also actresses and socialites. She died of pneumonia on July 4, 1995 in Los Angeles, California.

[[Athlete]]

Athlete(s) may refer to:

[[Snoopy]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional dogs

Snoopy is Charlie Brown's pet beagle in the comic strip Peanuts, by Charles M. Schulz.  Born on the Daisy Hill Puppy Farm, Snoopy started out in the background.  Eventually he stood on his hind legs and became a main character.  Snoopy has many alter egos, and many siblings.

Snoopy's house looks small from the outside, but the inside is much bigger, like the Tardis from Doctor Who.  He has many things in his house, including a TV set, Van Gogh painting, pool table, cedar closet, and many other things.  It has been destroyed multiple times, including being burnt down, destroyed by a falling icicle, and being smashed by the violent cat who lives next door.

[[John Wilkes Booth]]

CATEGORIES: 1838 births, 1865 deaths, Abraham Lincoln, Actors from Maryland, American murderers, American stage actors, Assassins, People shot dead by law enforcement officers in the United States

John Wilkes Booth (May 10, 1838 – April 26, 1865) was an American actor who shot and killed U.S. president Abraham Lincoln on April 14, 1865, in Washington, D.C. Lincoln died the next morning. Booth was born in Bel Air, Harford County, Maryland to English immigrant parents. He was a very well-known stage actor who supported the Confederacy during the American Civil War. He was angry with Lincoln for supporting voting rights for former slaves, and he hoped to rally the remaining Confederate troops to keep fighting the war, which was coming to an end. Booth was chased by United States soldiers and killed at a farm in Virginia 12 days after the assassination.

[[Annapolis, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Former capitals of the United States, Annapolis, Maryland, County seats in Maryland, State capitals in the United States, 1640s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies

Annapolis is the capital city of the U.S. state of Maryland. As of the census held in the year 2010, its population was 38,394. It is home to the United States Naval Academy, where the United States Naval Officers get their training. It is also home to Saint John's College, originally King William's School founded in 1696. Annapolis is the oldest seat of government still in service in America.

Annapolis became the temporary capital of the United States after the signing of the Treaty of Paris in 1783. Congress was in session in the state house from November 26, 1783 to June 3, 1784, and it was in Annapolis on December 23, 1783 that General Washington resigned his commission as commander-in-chief of the Continental Army.

Annapolis is also known as the sailing capital of the U.S., situated on the Chesapeake Bay, the largest inland tidal estuary in the world. The Chesapeake is Maryland's canary in the coal mine, troubled for the last 50 years by ever increasing degradation as an indicator of its citizens concern for economic or material value over that of their land. The Chesapeake Bay can not sustain the higher life that once proliferated these waters, and 3 of the main harvests need to be re-stocked by man in order to maintain 1/10th (or less) of the numbers - Oysters and Rockfish, and more recently as reported in the Capital, Blue Crab stocks are at an all-time and ever-decreasing low, with scientists from University of Maryland researching how to raise crabs for re-introduction.

Chesapeake Bay Native plants and animals are often crowded out by invasive species which are more hardy to the now-polluted environment. Fragmites, the Chinese Mitten Crab, English Ivy, and the Mute Swan are examples of invasive species thriving in this man-altered environment.

Annapolis is the only capital city in America east of the Mississippi River without any rail transportation.

[[Keanu Reeves]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Actors from Toronto, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Native Hawaiians

Keanu Charles Reeves (born September 2, 1964) is a Canadian actor. He is known for his roles in movies like the Bill and Ted series, The Matrix series, Speed, and John Wick.

At age 9, he started his acting career by appearing onstage, and at age 14, he appeared in Canadian television series and commercials.  He also appeared in short movies and stage work in early 1980s. Keanu acted his first significant role in River's Edge (1987), and the next year (1988), he appeared in some movies such as Dangerous Liaisons and Permanent Record.  In 1989, he appeared in the successful comedy Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, which was one of the Bill and Ted series.  In 2008 he played the alien in The Day the Earth Stood Still.

In 2014, he began playing John Wick in three movies: John Wick, John Wick: Chapter 2 and John Wick: Chapter 3 – Parabellum.

[[Kurt Cobain]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 1994 deaths, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, Drug-related suicides in the United States, Musicians from Washington, Musicians who committed suicide, Nirvana members, People from Aberdeen, Washington, People with bipolar disorder, Suicide in the 1990s, Suicides by firearm in the United States

Kurt Donald Cobain (February 20, 1967 - April 5, 1994) was an American musician. He was the lead singer and guitarist of the grunge band Nirvana, which also included bassist Krist Novoselic and drummer Dave Grohl. He was also a left-handed guitarist.

[[Mikhail Gorbachev]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Grammy Award winners, Mikhail Gorbachev, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, Recipients of the Order of Lenin, Russian communists, Russian lawyers, Russian Nobel Prize winners, Russian politicians, Soviet politicians, Time People of the Year

Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev  (sometimes spelled Gorbachov) (born 2 March 1931) is a former Soviet politician.

He was the General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (1985-91), Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union (head of state) (1988-91) and the first (and last) president of the Soviet Union (1990-dissolved 1991). Gorbachev is known for forming a friendship with President of the United States Ronald Reagan. Both of them would help end the Cold War.

[[Tron]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 science fiction movies, American science fiction movies, Cult movies, Disney movies, English-language movies

Tron is a 1982 American science fiction movie released by Walt Disney Pictures. The movie stars Jeff Bridges as Kevin Flynn (and Clu), Bruce Boxleitner as Alan Bradley (and Tron) and Cindy Morgan as Lora (and Yori). David Warner plays the villain, Dillinger (and Sark, as well as the voice of the "Master Control Program"). It was directed by Steven Lisberger. One of the first movies to use computer animations extensively, Tron has a distinctive visual style.

The music for the movie was written by Wendy Carlos, and there were also two songs from the band Journey.

Even though it got mixed success soon after its debut, Tron has gained a cult following thanks to its computer-generated imagery (CGI) and hero story. Several video games have been based on it.

A twentieth anniversary DVD edition came out in 2002. In early 2005, Disney revealed plans for a sequel. The sequel was called Tron Legacy and was released in 2010. It tells the story of Flynn's son Sam.

[[Garfield]]

CATEGORIES: Comic strips

Garfield is a famous comic strip created by Jim Davis. 

The comic has a cat called Garfield, a dog called Odie, and their owner Jon Arbuckle. The cat is named after Davis's grandfather, James Garfield Davis (who was probably named after former U.S. President James Garfield). It debuted in 1978 in 41 US newspapers. Garfield at Large was Garfield's first book, published in 1980. It was listed in the New York Times bestseller lists at #1. By 1983, Garfield was featured in 1400 newspapers, and was translated into seven different languages.

Garfield got a website in 1996. In 2002, Garfield was declared "Most widely syndicated comic strip in the world" by the Guinness Book of World Records. Garfield's 1st cookbook was featured in 2003. In 2004, Garfield: The Movie was the first full-length feature movie based off of Garfield. Garfield is a fun loving cat who loves lasagna and is enjoyed by many people around the world.

2016 five Garfield movies have been made.

[[Michael Moore]]

CATEGORIES: American Roman Catholics, American movie directors, American movie producers, American political commentators, American journalists, American historians, American activists, Writers from Michigan, People from Flint, Michigan, 1954 births, Living people

Michael Francis Moore (born April 23, 1954 in Davison, Michigan, USA) is an American writer and moviemaker. He is known for his strong liberal political views. He often expresses them using humor and satire. His work includes Roger & Me, Fahrenheit 9/11, Sicko, and Bowling for Columbine, and the satire show TV Nation. He has also written books including Dude, Where's My Country? and Will They Ever Trust Us Again?.

[[Hawaiian Punch]]

CATEGORIES: Drinks

Hawaiian Punch is the name of a brand of sweetened fruit punch drinks owned by Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc. (DPSU). It was created in 1934 by A.W. Leo, Tom Yates, and Ralph Harrison as an ice cream topping, and customers later discovered that it was an appealing drink when mixed with water.

In 1962, the character of Punchy was introduced in a commercial for Hawaiian Punch, eventually becoming the product's mascot. His long-time saying is "Hey, how about a nice Hawaiian Punch!"

It currently comes in the following flavors:

The drink has its name because some of original recipe's main ingredients come from Hawaii.

[[Whale]]

CATEGORIES: Cetaceans

Whales are a widely distributed and varied group of cetacean ungulates that live in the ocean. Like other mammals, they breathe oxygen from the air, have a small amount of hair, and are warm blooded.

There are two basic kinds of whales, and about 100 species.

People use the word whale in different ways.  Some use it for all Cetaceans including dolphins and porpoises.  These people say that dolphins and porpoises were also whales, because they are also Cetaceans.  Others separate out the dolphins and porpoises: common English-speaking people have never called them or thought of them as whales unless they are very large.  Actually, there is no clear line between whales and dolphins.

Whales have been killed for meat and oil by whalers.  However, many countries have laws saying not to kill whales anymore.  Some countries, such as Iceland and Japan, do not have these laws.  In other countries, such as the USA, only Eskimos and some American Indians may legally kill whales such as the blue whale and beluga whale.

[[Marker]]

CATEGORIES: Art, Writing tools

A marker is a writing device that allows a person to draw, write, or scribble. Ink comes out of the tip of the marker and onto the writing surface, commonly a piece of paper. Markers generally come in a variety of different colors. They are sometimes referred to as "magic markers", or magic pens.

The tip of the marker where ink comes out from is usually made of cloth. This allows the ink to go through easily. A lot of ink can come out from it at one time.

[[Anchor]]

CATEGORIES: Ship building, Boats

Anchors are used to stop boats from moving. Today, anchors are usually made of metal, and they are made to catch the ocean floor (the seabed).

There are two main types of anchors: temporary and permanent. A permanent anchor is called a mooring block and is not easily moved. A temporary anchor can be moved and is carried on the boat. When people talk about anchors, they are usually thinking about temporary anchors.

An anchor works by either weight (mass) or shape. Shape is more important to temporary anchors, and design is very important. Anchors must resist wind and tide, and also the up-and-down movement of waves.

[[Light pollution]]

CATEGORIES: Light, Pollution

Light pollution is a type of pollution. It is defined as “any adverse (or bad) effect as a result of man-made lights.” Usually, this means too much light. Several species, including plants and humans, are badly affected by light pollution. Most people have never heard of light pollution, and those who have usually don’t care, or do anything about it. Light pollution costs Americans billions of dollars every year.

[[Nintendo]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 establishments, Nintendo, 1880s establishments in Japan

Nintendo is a Japanese-American company that makes video games and video game consoles. At first, it began by creating playing cards and other toys and games. Their main office is in Kyoto, Japan. They also have offices in other continents.

[[São Paulo]]

CATEGORIES: São Paulo, Capitals of Brazilian states, 1550s establishments in South America, 16th-century establishments in Brazil, 1554 establishments

São Paulo (Portuguese for Saint Paul) is the capital of the state of São Paulo, Brazil. It is the biggest city in the Southern Hemisphere.

The city has an area of 1,523 km² and more than 11 million people live there. It is the 11th most populous city on Earth.

[[Tim Burton]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, American movie directors, American movie producers, American television directors, American television producers, Movie directors from Los Angeles County, California, Movie producers from Los Angeles County, California, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, People from Burbank, California, People with bipolar disorder, Screenwriters from California, Writers from Los Angeles County, California

Timothy Walter "Tim" Burton (born August 25, 1958) is an American director, producer, screenwriter, and artist.

[[DVD]]

CATEGORIES: Optical discs

A DVD (which means Digital Versatile Disc or a Digital Video Disc) is an optical disc capable of storing up to 4.7 GB of data, more than six times what a CD can hold. DVDs are often used to store movies at better quality than a VHS. DVDs can also have interactive menus and bonus features such as deleted scenes and commentaries. Like CDs, DVDs are read with a laser.

The disc can have one or two sides, and one or two layers of data per side; the number of sides and layers determines how much it can hold. A 12 cm diameter disc may have one of the following storage capacities:

There are also 8 cm DVDs with a storage capacity of 1.5 GB.

The capacity of a DVD-ROM can be visually determined by noting the number of data sides, and looking at the data side(s) of the disc. Double-layered sides are usually gold-colored, while single-layered sides are usually silver-colored, like a CD. One additional way to tell if a DVD contains one or two layers is to look at the center ring on the underside of the disc. If there are two barcodes, it is a dual layer disc. If there is one barcode, there is only one layer.

[[Submarine]]

CATEGORIES: Warships

A submarine (or Sub) is a vessel that goes underwater. Most large submarines are war vessels. Some small ones are used for scientific or business purposes. These are often called "submersibles" and cannot go far or stay long away from base. Some people buy their own to explore under the sea. A submarine is actually a boat, not a ship.

[[Lebanon]]

CATEGORIES: Lebanon, Members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, 1943 establishments, Beirut, Population

Lebanon is a country in the Middle East, located in Western Asia, on the Mediterranean Sea. It has a border with Israel to the south, and Syria to the east and north. Lebanon has been independent since 1943. Its capital city is Beirut.

Lebanon has two chains of mountains. It is often called the ruby of the Middle East. It has a coastline stretching all the way up. The area of Lebanon is 10,452 square kilometers.

The Cedar tree is the national symbol of Lebanon; because many of them grow in the Lebanon Mountains.

[[Alan Alda]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American television actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning directors, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Alan Alda (real name: Alfonso Joseph D'Abruzzo) (born January 28, 1936) is an American actor. His mother was of Irish ancestry; his father was of Italian ancestry. 

He directed, wrote and starred in many movies. He is probably most famous for his role as "Hawkeye" Pierce, the central character on the comedy/drama TV series M*A*S*H, as well as writing and directing several episodes of the show, and later becoming one of its producers. Alan also hosted Scientific American Frontiers on PBS from 1993 to 2005. 

His father, Robert Alda, was an actor, and his mother, Joan, was once crowned Miss New York. Alan has been married to Arlene Weiss since 1957 and they have three daughters and a son.

In 2015, Alda was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. That same year, he starred in Steven Spielberg's Bridge of Spies. In 2019, he starred as lawyer Bert Spitz in Marriage Story.

[[Sally Kellerman]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Actors from Long Beach, California, American movie actors, American television actors

Sally Kellerman (June 2, 1937) is an American movie actress. She was born in Long Beach, California. Her acting performances include the pilot for the original Star Trek television series, and the movies MASH (1970) and Back to School (1986).

[[Hagar the Horrible]]

CATEGORIES: Comic strips, Comics characters

Hägar the Horrible is the title of a comic strip and the name of the main character. The comic strip is about a Viking and his life of plundering and his family life. It was started in 1973 by Dik Browne. Since Dik's retirement (he stopped working) in 1988, his son Chris has continued the comic.

[[Baghdad]]

CATEGORIES: Baghdad, 762 establishments, 8th century establishments in Iraq, 760s establishments in Asia

Baghdad (بغداد, transliterated Baghdād) is the capital city and largest city in Iraq. It is the second-largest city in Southwest Asia after Tehran. It is the second-largest city in the Arab world after Cairo. It has 5,772,000 people (2003). Baghdad is on the Tigris River at 33°20′N 44°26′E. The city was once the center of Dar al-Islam, Muslim civilization.

Baghdad used to be one of the largest learning centers in the world, during the post classical era.

[[Mediterranean Sea]]

CATEGORIES: Oceanography, Seas of the Atlantic Ocean, Bodies of water of Africa, Bodies of water of Asia, Bodies of water of Europe

The Mediterranean Sea is the body of water that separates Europe, Africa, and Asia.

The Mediterranean Sea is connected to the Atlantic Ocean by a narrow passage called the Strait of Gibraltar.  The sea is almost completely surrounded by land, on the north by Europe, on the south by North Africa, and on the east by the Middle East. It covers around 2.5. Its name was invented in the early middle ages from Latin words for "in the middle of land". 

To the east it connects to the Sea of Marmara and the Black Sea, by the Dardanelles and the Bosporus. The Sea of Marmara, which is an inner sea like the Black Sea, is rarely considered as a part of the Mediterranean Sea. The much bigger Black Sea is generally not considered a part of the Mediterranean Sea. The Ancient Greeks called the Mediterranean simply ἡ θάλασσα (hē thálassa; "the Sea") or sometimes ἡ μεγάλη θάλασσα (hē megálē thálassa; "the Great Sea"), ἡ ἡμετέρα θάλασσα (hē hēmetérā thálassa; "Our Sea"), or ἡ θάλασσα ἡ καθ'ἡμᾶς (hē thálassa hē kath’hēmâs; "the sea around us").

The 163 km (101 mi) long man-made Suez Canal in the southeast connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Red Sea. The canal is between Egypt and the Sinai Peninsula, and was built by the French Compagnie Universelle du Canal Maritime de Suez from 1859 to 1869.

[[Shirley Bassey]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Black British musicians, Musicians from Cardiff, Welsh pop singers

Dame Shirley Veronica Bassey, DBE (born 8 January 1937) is a Welsh singer, born in Cardiff to an English mother and Nigerian father. She is best known for singing the theme songs for the James Bond films, Goldfinger, Diamonds are Forever, and Moonraker. She was "one of the most popular female vocalists in Britain during the last half of the 20th century". 

[[Captain Beefheart]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from Los Angeles, California, American rock musicians, People with multiple sclerosis, Deaths from multiple sclerosis, 1941 births, 2010 deaths, Multi-instrumentalists

Don Van Vliet  (born Don Glen Vliet January 15, 1941– December 17, 2010) was an American singer. He is better known by his stage name Captain Beefheart.  He was best known for his collaborations and (sometimes) rivalry, with long time friend, Frank Zappa. He is an inspiration to many "alternative" singers. He retired from music due to illness and spent his time painting. He was born in Glendale, California. His stage name came from a movie project Zappa was writing, but soon abandoned, "Captain Beefheart battles the Grunt People". His best known album was recorded in 1969. It was titled "Trout Mask Replica".

He and his group Magic Band also made albums in the early 1980s that received positive critical attention.

Van Vliet was also a well known painter of abstract primitive art. His work has been shown in gallery presentations in New York City and Europe.

He died on December 17, 2010 at the age of 69 from complications from multiple sclerosis, twenty-nine days before his 70th birthday.

[[December 30]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[C (programming language)]]

CATEGORIES: Programming languages

The C programming language is a computer programming language that was developed to do system programming for the operating system UNIX and is an imperative programming language.  C was developed in the early 1970s by Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie at Bell Labs. It is a procedural language, which means that people can write their programs as a series of step-by-step instructions. C is a compiled language.

Because the ideas behind C are kept close to the design of the computer, the compiler (program builder) can generate machine code/native code for the computer.  Programs built in machine code are very fast. This makes C a good language for writing operating systems. Many operating systems, including Linux and UNIX, are programmed using this language. The language itself has very few keywords, and most things are done using libraries, which are collections of code for them to be reused.

[[Drake & Josh]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American sitcoms, Nickelodeon television series, 2004 American television series debuts, 2007 American television series endings, English-language television programs

Drake & Josh was a Nickelodeon television series. It started in January 2004 and ended in September 2007. The stars of the series are Drake Bell and Josh Peck. The two appeared as best friends on The Amanda Show. In Drake & Josh, they play step-brothers of separate parents. The overall story of the show was to show how Drake & Josh, two people with completely different ways of life, come together through their parents' marriage, and trying to avoid getting pranked by their little sister Megan Parker (Miranda Cosgrove).

Other stars of the show include Nancy Sullivan, who also starred on The Amanda Show.

[[The Amanda Show]]

CATEGORIES: Comedy television series, Nickelodeon television series, 1999 American television series debuts, Television spin-offs, English-language television programs

The Amanda Show is a sketch comedy television series starring Amanda Bynes, formerly of All That. It is a spin-off of All That. The series starred Amanda as almost every major recurring character, including herself, Penelope, Courtney, and Judge Trudy (a parody of Judge Judy.) The series aired on Saturday nights on the Nickelodeon television network in the United States.  It still shows the show in reruns. Three of the show's stars (Drake Bell, Josh Peck, and Nancy Cartwright) Were on the very popular Drake and Josh.

[[1983]]

CATEGORIES: 1983

1983 (MCMLXXXIII) was 1983.

[[Sally Ride]]

CATEGORIES: American astronauts, American physicists, Cancer deaths in San Diego County, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, LGBT people from Los Angeles, California, LGBT scientists, Scientists from Los Angeles, California, 1951 births, 2012 deaths

Sally Kristen Ride (May 26, 1951 – July 23, 2012) was an American astronaut and astrophysicist. She was the first American woman to reach outer space.

Ride was born on May 26, 1951. She was born in the neighborhood of Encino in Los Angeles, California. She earned a Ph.D. in physics from Stanford University. She joined NASA in 1978. She was an astronaut until 1987. In order to be an astronaut and go into space, Sally Ride had to train for a year. Training included adapting to gravity, water survival, radio communications, and navigation. She went on the Space Shuttle Challenger in June 1983. This trip was the first time an American woman was in space. She helped design the robot arm for the space shuttle. The robot arm lifts heavy objects in space. Ride was the first person to use the robot arm in space. The robot arm put a satellite in space that showed how the sun affected weather. Ride flew to space twice.

She worked on the commissions that investigated the Space Shuttle Challenger and Space Shuttle Columbia disasters. Ride became a professor in 1989. She was the professor of physics and director of the Oklahoma Space Institute at the University of California.

She was married to astronaut Steven Hawley from 1982 until they divorced in 1987. At the time of her death, Ride had been in a relationship with writer Tam O'Shaughnessy for 27 years.

On July 23, 2012, Ride died of pancreatic cancer at her home in La Jolla, a neighborhood of San Diego, California. She was 61.

[[Court]]

CATEGORIES: Courts (law)

A court, in law, is a part of the government in which people come together to decide how to apply the country's laws to a specific situation, especially when there is an argument over how to apply the law. Some disagreements a court may decide are whether a person is guilty of a crime, who is the legal owner of property, or who the children of two divorced parents should live with. A court is usually in a special building called a courthouse.

Most countries have multiple courts to deal with different issues.  For example, civil courts deal with private disputes between people or organizations, while criminal courts deal with people who have been accused of crimes. 

[[Birth]]

CATEGORIES: Pregnancy and childbirth

Birth (to be born) means when a baby animal comes out of its egg, or out of its mother after pregnancy. It is sometimes thought of as the beginning of life. It is also known as calving in livestock or whelping in meat-eating mammals. 

[[Pollution]]

CATEGORIES: Pollution

Pollution is when harmful substances are added to the environment and then change it in a bad way. There are five kinds of pollution of the environment: water pollution, air pollution, noise pollution, soil pollution and thermal pollution. 

As pollution grows, ways to combat it have been in demand. Solar energy and wind energy give people clean opportunities to power their homes. But these may also have environmental issues depending on the situation. When people  use these alternative forms of energy, they put less carbon dioxide into the environment.  

[[Immunity (medical)]]

CATEGORIES: Immunology

Immunity is the ability of the body to defend itself from 'foreign bodies'. This means rejecting infections, clearing up dust which gets in the lungs, and killing cancer cells. 

Immunity is of two types. Innate immunity protects the host against infection, but has no 'memory', and so gives no long-term immunity.

The second type is adaptive immunity, which does have a kind of 'memory'. It does give long-term protection against specific pathogens.

All animals, plants and fungi have some innate immunity. Vertebrates also have adaptive immunity.

People can be immunised from some diseases by having a vaccination 

(injection of some dead or weakened virus, or bacteria that causes the disease). By doing so, the body learns how the virus/bacteria harms the body, and will react more quickly to fight the virus/bacteria when it comes in contact with the virus/bacteria again. When your body has defended itself against the virus/bacteria it will trap the certain virus/bacteria in a "net" so when the virus/bacteria comes back it will be easier to trap those viruses/bacteria as well.

[[Roman numerals]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome, Numerals

Roman numerals are a numeral system that was used by ancient Rome. Numbers in this system uses letters from the Latin alphabet. Currently, it uses seven symbols:

! Symbol

! Value

The Europeans still used Roman numerals even after the fall of the Roman Empire. From the 14th century, the Europeans replaced Roman numerals with Arabic numerals. However, people still uses the Roman numerals to this day.

One place they are sometimes seen is on clock faces. For example, on the clock of Big Ben, the hours from 1 to 12 are written as:

The IV and IX can be read as "one less than 5" (4) and "one less than 10" (9). On most Roman numeral clock faces, however, 4 is written as IIII.

[[Map]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Cartography, Survival skills, Tools

A map is an image of an area, usually of the Earth or part of the Earth. A map is different from an aerial photograph because it includes interpretation. Many maps are called "charts" such as star charts and nautical charts. Before the late 20th century almost all maps were on paper. Today, many maps are digital, and can be seen on smartphones and computers. However, paper maps are still used.

The word "map" can also be used to talk about a chart or drawing that shows relationships between ideas, people, events, or anything else you can think about. This is why web developers call a list of web pages on a web site a site map.

People who make maps are cartographers.

Many maps today are made using GIS computer systems. These are database systems that are organized by location instead of named records. 

If a map is on a piece of paper or a computer screen, it has to be projected.  This is because the Earth is round and paper and screens are flat.  There are a lot of ways that use mathematics to make map projections.  The only kind of map of the Earth that is not projected is one drawn on a sphere.  This is called a globe.

[[Globe]]

CATEGORIES: Cartography

A globe is a scale model with the shape of a sphere. Globes can be scale models of the Earth (terrestrial globes) or of other planets. Globes can also be models of the celestial sphere (celestial globes). The English word "globe" comes from the globus, meaning round mass or sphere. 

Most globes are maps of the Earth. They have the advantage of avoiding the distortions of flat map projections. The most common types are political and physical. Political globes show countries. Physical globes show landscape like mountains and rivers. Some globes are star charts and some are maps of distant worlds.

Global as an adjective is used to mean the entire world rather than any special place on the Earth. It is also used in fields like computers to mean dealing with a whole larger system, rather than its individual little parts.

[[Noah]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament people

Noah (meaning rest or comfort) is a man in the Abrahamic religions. He was the son of Lamech, and the father of sons, Shem, Ham, Canaan, and Japheth. Noah and his ark is in the Book of Genesis, which also describes Noah as the 'first man to plant a vineyard' (chapter 9). Several other parts of the Bible mention him, as does the Quran.

[[1452]]

CATEGORIES: 1452

[[Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide]]

CATEGORIES: Nickelodeon television series, English-language television programs, 2004 television series debuts, 2007 television series endings

Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide is a children's TV show on Nickelodeon.

From "A middle middle school full of bullies, insane teachers and gross school lunches" comes Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide, a show on Nickelodeon. The show stars Devon Werkheiser as Ned Bigby (that everyone hates), a 12-15-year-old student at James K. Polk Middle School. Every episode is a group of tips to surviving a school based activity. The show is part of Nick's Sunday lineup. It first aired on September 12, 2004.

The show is very successful, it has had a promising start. The show also stars Daniel Curtis Lee and Lindsey Shaw as Simon "Cookie" Cook and Jennifer "Moze/Mose" Mosley/Mozely.

It also comes on Family Channel.

[[VH1]]

CATEGORIES: American television networks, Companies based in New York City, Music media, Cable television

VH1 (Video Hits One) is an American television network. It is a sister station to the groundbreaking MTV.

VH1 shows reality shows and reruns of sitcoms, whereas MTV's focus is on the current hits and also reality shows. VH1 also shows You're Cut Off! on Mondays for 3 weeks and Wednesdays for 5 weeks. It started airing on 2010. Casting has been renewed for a 2nd season.

[[Cabinet]]

CATEGORIES: Government

A Cabinet is a group of important people in a government, who normally represent the head of government. It is also known as the Council of Ministers or the Executive Council.  They are part of the executive branch of government. People in the cabinet are called ministers or secretaries, and they do different things, such as look after the environment. 

In most countries with parliamentary systems, the cabinet decides the government's policy.  In other countries, such as the United States, the cabinet has limited power, and is an advisor to the Head of Government. In some countries, cabinet members are given their jobs by those who are in the government.

Many years ago the cabinets were called Privy Councils. The cabinet of today came about during the time that George I and George II were Kings of England. 

In some European countries, the term "cabinet" is used to mean the assistants of an important politician.

In the UK and some Commonwealth countries, the Shadow Cabinet are the leaders of the main opposition party in a parliament.

[[Newspaper]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers, Printing, Reference works

A newspaper is a publication printed on paper and issued regularly, usually once a day or once a week. It gives information and opinions about current events and news.  Usually people like to read them to stay informed about their local city, state or country.  Newspapers can be delivered to one's home, by subscription.  One also can buy a newspaper at a store or at a newsstand.  Recycling of paper is common.  It may be converted to new paper, for example. 

Newspapers usually have many topics.  They usually include political events, crime, business, sports, and weather news.  Newspapers use photographs to illustrate stories; and also often include comics and other entertainment, such as crosswords and horoscopes.  Many have opinion sections.  These sections print the opinions of people who work for the newspaper.  The opinions, which are usually on stories in the news, are called editorials.  Opinion sections usually also print short letters from people who read the newspaper.

[[1833]]

CATEGORIES: 1833

[[July 4]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

Aphelion, the point during its orbit, when the Earth is furthest from the Sun, occurs around this date.

[[Public domain]]

CATEGORIES: Intellectual property law

Public domain is a phrase that describes something that belongs to all people in general: the public. The public domain contains works (such as books, films, or paintings) that are not under copyright protection.

The opposite of "public domain" is copyrighted material, which is owned either by the creator of the work or their estate.  The term public domain is only used to describe things that can be copyrighted, such as photographs, drawings, written articles, books or plays, or similar works of art.  As a general rule, all intellectual property works, after enough time has gone by, will become part of public domain. Examples include the works of Leonardo da Vinci, William Shakespeare and Ludwig van Beethoven, and the books of Isaac Newton.

A work can enter the public domain in many ways.

In some cases, if a work enters the public domain after copyright expiration, anyone using the work may still be required to note who created the work.  Even if some works are in the public domain due to not being copyrighted, there may be still non-copyright usage restrictions. For examples, even though the design of national currencies may be ineligible, or be unsuitable, for copyright, counterfeiting them for fraud is widely a very serious crime. Another example are logos and images that only have text or simple shapes. These logos aren't copyrighted in the United States, but they are often protected by trademarks.

[[Child]]

CATEGORIES: Children, Basic English 850 words

A child (plural form is children) is someone who is not an adult yet, or an age who has not reached puberty, which usually happens in adolescence. Sometimes, teenagers (between puberty and legal adulthood) are also called children. A baby that is not yet born is often called a child, too. A person can be called his or her parent's child, no matter how old he or she is. Some synonyms for the word 'child' are kid, toddler, bairn, youngster, boy or girl, lad or lass, and youth. 

In rich countries, children go to school. Small children may go to nursery school, preschool or kindergarten. Playing with small toys and using their imaginations are important for child development. But often in a developing country, children sometimes work in factories or in the fields with their parents or guardians.

When two people get married and one (or both) of them have children with someone else before this marriage, that child is called a step child by the child's non-birth parent. If both people had children, the children of each parent are step brothers or step sisters of each other. A child whose parents die is an orphan. Orphans with no parent may be raised by grandparents or other relatives. Otherwise they may go to live in an orphanage. They may be adopted by another adult or couple wanting a child. They will then be able to grow up in a new family.

[[Nickelodeon]]

CATEGORIES: Nickelodeon, American television networks, Viacom

Nickelodeon is a worldwide cable television network. Airing Sundays-Fridays from 7 a.m.-8 p.m. and Saturdays from 7 a.m.-9 p.m.  It is made for children. The network was started in 1977 as Pinwheel. During the late mornings and afternoons, Nickelodeon shows Nick Jr.. This is a group of learning programs and series for younger children. They are shown while the older children are in school. At night, the network shows Nick @ Nite. Nick at Nite is a group of reruns of older series that parents watched when they were younger.

[[Jimmy Carter]]

CATEGORIES: American Nobel Prize winners, Governors of Georgia (U.S. state), Jimmy Carter, American progressives, Cancer survivors, Presidents of the United States, Time People of the Year, 1976 United States presidential candidates, 1980 United States presidential candidates, US Democratic Party politicians, 1924 births, Living people, 20th-century American politicians

PeaceJames Earl Carter Jr. (born October 1, 1924) is an American politician and philanthropist. He was the 39th president of the United States from 1977 to 1981. He is a member of the Democratic Party. Before becoming president, Carter was a Georgia state senator from 1963 to 1967 and the 76th governor of Georgia from 1971 to 1975. 

Born and raised in Plains, Georgia, Carter graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1946 with a Bachelor of Science degree and joined the United States Navy. In 1953, Carter left the military and returned home to Georgia to take charge of the family's peanut-growing business. Carter was against racial segregation and support the growing civil rights movement. He became an activist in the Democratic Party. From 1963 to 1967, Carter was in the Georgia State Senate, and in 1970, he was elected as Governor of Georgia. He was governor until 1975. 

At first, he was not seen as a serious presidential candidate as not many people knew him outside of Georgia. Carter eventually won the 1976 Democratic presidential nomination and was elected president, beating then-Republican President Gerald Ford.

On his second day in office, Carter pardoned all the Vietnam War draft evaders. During Carter's term as president, he created the Department of Energy and the Department of Education. He also created a national energy policy that included conservation, price control, and new technology. In foreign affairs, Carter helped create the Camp David Accords, the Panama Canal Treaties, the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT II), and the return of the Panama Canal Zone to Panama. However, the economy during his presidency was bad as it had stagflation, high inflation, high unemployment and slow economic growth. The end of his presidential term was remembered by the 1979–1981 Iran hostage crisis, the 1979 energy crisis, the Three Mile Island nuclear accident, and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. 

In 1980, Carter ran against Senator Ted Kennedy in the Democratic primaries and won re-nomination at the 1980 Democratic National Convention. Carter lost the presidential election to Republican nominee Ronald Reagan in a landslide. Polls of historians and political scientists usually see Carter as an average president; becoming more popular for his humanitarian work after leaving office.

In 1982, Carter created the Carter Center to focus on human rights across the world. He has traveled to support peace talks, look over elections, and support ending deadly diseases. In 2002, he won the Nobel Peace Prize. Carter is seen as an important person in the Habitat for Humanity charity. He has written over 30 books from memoirs to poetry. Carter is the longest-lived president, the longest-retired president, the first to live forty years after their inauguration, and the first to reach the age of 95.

[[Cannes]]

CATEGORIES: Cannes

Cannes (kan) is a commune and the prefecture of Alpes-Maritimes.

It is most famous for the Cannes Film Festival, which takes place every summer.  Many famous people come to the movie festival from around the world to promote their movies and to see other peoples' movies too.

[[Theodore Roosevelt]]

CATEGORIES: 1858 births, 1919 deaths, American environmentalists, American military personnel of the Spanish-American War, American Nobel Prize winners, American progressives, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Civil servants, Colonels, Governors of New York, Politicians from New York, Theodore Roosevelt, United States Army Medal of Honor recipients, US Republican Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, 19th-century American politicians

Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt, Jr. (October 27, 1858–January 6, 1919), was the 26th president of the United States. He was born in New York City.

[[Composer]]

CATEGORIES: Composers

A composer is someone who writes (composes) music. Some composers work by writing music down on paper; this is called 'written notation'. Classical music writers work this way. Writers for TV and movie music also usually write this way, so that an orchestra or other players can read the music and play it.

Some musicians are very good at improvisation. This means that they think up (invent) the music as they play it. Some church organists are good at improvising. During a service they may need to play some organ music to fill in the gaps while people are collecting money or taking communion. Jazz musicians are usually excellent at improvising. Improvisation is not written down, so each time it is different.

Popular and rock or soul music writers are often not able to read and write music down. Many pop and rock composers compose their songs on a guitar or piano. Cole Porter and Irving Berlin usually composed at the piano.

Many songs are written by two or more people. It is common for two people to work together to write songs. Sometimes, one person writes the music and one writes the words (the lyrics). Some songs such as folk songs were composed many years ago and no one knows who wrote them.

[[Cannes Film Festival]]

CATEGORIES: Cannes, Entertainment in France, Festivals in Europe, Lists of movies, Movie festivals, 1939 establishments, 1930s establishments in France

The Cannes Film Festival is an event held every year in Cannes, France.  The festival previews films from around the world.

Only those who are invited can attend the festival. The top film wins the Palme d'Or. The second most prestigious trophy is the Grand Prix. A jury selects which film earns the prizes. The jury is led by an internationally recognized personality of cinema. Being appointed to this position is the recognition of an outstanding career.

[[Henry VIII]]

CATEGORIES: 1491 births, 1547 deaths, 1500s in Europe, 1510s in Europe, 1520s in Europe, 1530s in Europe, 1540s in Europe, 16th century in England, English Anglicans, English royalty, Former Roman Catholics, House of Tudor, People excommunicated by the Catholic Church, People from Kent

Henry VIII (28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547) was the King of England from 1509 until his death in 1547. He is perhaps one of England's most famous monarchs because he split England from the Roman Catholic Church and the Pope, and because he married six times.

Henry VIII increased the power of the monarchy and government over the country. Many people he did not like were executed under his orders, including two of his own wives. He was easily led by whoever his favourite advisor was: Thomas Wolsey, Thomas More, Thomas Cromwell, Thomas Cranmer and Richard Rich. More and Cromwell were also executed. He passed laws to merge Wales into England and was the first English monarch to be King of Ireland.

His government was able to raise more money they stopped paying money to the Roman Catholic Church and because they closed down the monasteries. But he also spent far more money on his own enjoyment and on wars with France and Scotland. These wars did not achieve much. He made the Royal Navy much bigger and made other improvements to the armed forces.

Early in his reign he was seen as a handsome young man who had studied a lot and enjoyed sports, music and writing. Later in his reign he became weak, ill and hugely obese. He also became unpredictable, bad-tempered and unable to admit to making mistakes. He died at the age of 55 in 1547. The next king was his son Edward VI.

[[Orchestra]]

CATEGORIES: Orchestras

An orchestra is a group of musicians playing instruments together. They make music. A large orchestra is sometimes called a "symphony orchestra" and a small orchestra is called a "chamber orchestra". A symphony orchestra may have about 100 players, while a chamber orchestra may have 30 or 40 players. The number of players will depend on what music they are playing and the size of the place where they are playing. The word "orchestra" originally meant the semi-circular space in front of a stage in a Greek theatre which is where the singers and instruments used to play. Gradually the word came to mean the musicians themselves.

[[Homosexuality]]

CATEGORIES: LGBT variations

Homosexuality is a sexual orientation. A homosexual person is romantically or sexually attracted to people of their own gender. Men who are romantically or sexually attracted to other men are called gay. Women who are romantically or sexually attracted to other women can be called gay as well, but are usually called lesbians. People who are romantically or sexually attracted to men and women are called bisexual.

Together homosexual, bisexual, and transgender people make up the LGBT community, which stands for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender. It is difficult to say how many people are homosexual. Homosexuality is known to exist in all cultures and countries.

[[Dwight D. Eisenhower]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1969 deaths, American military personnel of World War I, American military personnel of World War II, Deaths from congestive heart failure, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Washington, D.C., Dwight D. Eisenhower, Honorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Military-industrial complex, Military people from Texas, Order of Merit, Politicians from Texas, Recipients of the Nishan-e-Pakistan, Recipients of the Order of the Aztec Eagle, Recipients of the Order pro merito Melitensi, Time People of the Year, US Republican Party politicians, 20th-century American politicians, Kansas Republicans, People from Denison, Texas

Dwight David "Ike" Eisenhower(ˈ EYE (October 14, 1890 – March 28, 1969) was the 34th president of the United States, from 1953 to 1961. He was known across the world for his help leading the Allied invasions in World War II.

[[Factor]]

A factor can be:

[[Ball]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

Ball could mean:

[[Ferrocement]]

CATEGORIES: Construction

Ferrocement is both a method and a material used in building or sculpting with cement, sand, water and wire or mesh material. It is often called the thin shell. Thin shell ferrocement offers strength and economy and can be used in many ways including: building homes, creating sculptures, or building boats and ships.    

[[Camera lens]]

CATEGORIES: Camera lenses

A camera lens is the part of a camera that directs light to the film or, in a digital camera, to a computer chip that can sense the light. Many cheap lenses are plastic but better ones are made from glass. The lens makes an image by focusing the light.

The majority of cameras only have one lens that users cannot change or take out. This is called a fixed lens design. More expensive cameras usually have lenses that come off, so anyone can take out one lens and put in another. A lens may be simple, or may actually be made of several lenses.

Photographers can use different lenses (objectives) to make different kinds of pictures. For example, a telephoto lens can take a picture of something far away. A  wide-angle lens is the opposite. A zoom lens is more versatile; it can do both. There are many kinds of lenses.

The study of lenses and how they work is called optics.

Lenses for large sheet film cameras are especially difficult to design. Cameras and their lenses have been made since the 19th century. Some from before World War II, are still usable today. Computers now let engineers make better lenses, though, because they can calculate the way that light goes through the lens and find the best design for each task.

[[Boy]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Humans, Childhood

A boy is a young male human, either a child or teenager.  Little boys still have the body of a child.  It is not until they reach puberty (adolescence) (which starts at age 13 on average) that their bodies start to mature and they become a man.

The word “boy” was used a long time ago in Anglo-Saxon English. The opposite of a boy is a girl.

[[Company clerk]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations

A company clerk is a person who keeps files, does secretarial work, etc., at an office or military company, camp or base.

[[Paul McCartney]]

CATEGORIES: Paul McCartney, 1942 births, Living people, British bass guitarists, English guitarists, English pianists, English singer-songwriters, English composers, Grammy Award winners, Kennedy Center honorees, Musicians from Liverpool, The Beatles members, Knights Bachelor, Companions of Honour, Members of the Order of the British Empire

Sir James Paul McCartney GBR (born 18 June 1942) is an English singer, songwriter and composer. He is internationally known as a singer and bassist of the Beatles. With singer and guitarist John Lennon, he contributed music and lyrics to a lot of the band's songs.

[[Afrikaner people]]

CATEGORIES: South African people

Afrikaners are white South Africans who speak Afrikaans as mother tongue and follow the Afrikaans culture. Most of them have Dutch, German, French Huguenot, ancestors. Also known as Boere, Voortrekkers and Burgers, although under slightly different contexts. In South Africa there are about 3 million white people with Afrikaans as mother tongue, that can be assumed to be Afrikaners if they chose to follow the Afrikaans culture.

[[John Lennon]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 1980 deaths, English guitarists, English pianists, English murder victims, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, John Lennon, Murdered musicians, Murders by firearm in the United States, Musicians from Liverpool, Nonviolence advocates, The Beatles members, Members of the Order of the British Empire, People murdered in New York, Former Roman Catholics

John Winston Ono Lennon, GBR (born John Winston Lennon; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980), was an English singer and songwriter. He became famous as a singer and guitarist of the English rock band The Beatles. After the Beatles stopped making records in 1970, he lived in the United States with his wife Yoko Ono. He continued his music career up until his death in 1980.

[[Invention]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

An invention is a new thing that someone has made. The computer was an invention when it was first made. We say when it was "invented". New things that are made or created are called inventions. Cars and plastics are inventions that everyone knows. Inventions are made by inventors. Many inventions are patented.

Ideas are also called inventions. Writers can invent characters, and then invent a story about them.

[[Genocide]]

CATEGORIES: Genocide, Ethnicity

Genocide is the crime of killing many people who are all part of one ethnic or religious group, or some sort of similar group, and trying to destroy that group. Genocide is done usually by a group, such as a government, or military group, not by one person or a small number of people. Usually, the motivation for genocide is based on political reason.

The word genocide was made up by Raphael Lemkin, a Polish Jew, in 1944, from the words "genos" (Greek for family, tribe or race) and "-cide" (from the Latin "occidere", to kill). It was first used to the Nazi Holocaust, when many groups, including Jews and others, were killed.

Ustashe of Croatia are another example of genocidial horror. About a million of Serbs were killed in WWII in Ustashe concentration camps. Another example of genocide was when about a million of the Tutsi group of people of Rwanda were killed along with Hutus who were against the genocide in 1994.

In 1933 Lemkin made a speech to the Legal Council of the League of Nations conference on international criminal law in Madrid, for which he prepared an essay on the Crime of Barbarity as a crime against international law. The purpose of the crime, which later evolved into the idea of genocide, was based mostly on the experience of Assyrians massacred in Iraq on 11 August 1933. The event in Iraq reminded him of earlier similar events of the Armenian Genocide during World War I.

Today, any genocide is prohibited by the Genocide Convention and actor or inciter of genocide is judged by the International Criminal Court. This does not mean that genocides are not happening right now.

[[Yoko Ono]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Feminists, Grammy Award winners, Living people, Japanese artists, Musicians from Tokyo, HuffPost writers and columnists, John Lennon

Yoko Ono is a Japanese musician and artist. She is the widow of John Lennon. Before she married Lennon she was married to Toshi Ichiyanagi from 1956 to 1963 and Anthony Cox from 1963 to 1969. She has two children, Kyoko Chan Cox (with Cox) and Sean Lennon (with Lennon).

[[Coast]]

CATEGORIES: Landforms

The coast is where land meets the sea. 

The coast also means the land next to the sea, which can also be called the shore, or sea-shore. However, coast is not used to describe where rivers or lakes meet the land - it is only used to describe the sea meeting the land. 

If a house is near to the coast we say it is "on the coast". When we talk about a long part of the coast we call it "the coast-line". 

Sometimes, 'coast' can be part of a place name or the description of a large area. For instance, the East Coast of the United States describes the all of the Eastern side of the United States that is next to the Atlantic Ocean. 

In some countries like England or Australia the people sometimes use the word sea-side for the coast.

Coasts often have many living things living there and provide habitat for many animals and plants.

An example of a coast in Great Britain is the Holderness Coast near Bridlington. This is one of Europe's fast eroding coasts.

[[George Harrison]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2001 deaths, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, Deaths from throat cancer, Deaths from lung cancer, English guitarists, Musicians from Liverpool, The Beatles members, Former Roman Catholics

George Harrison, MBE (25 February 1943 – 29 November 2001) was an English musician. He is best known as the lead guitarist of the Beatles. After the group broke up in 1970, he had a solo career. He made many albums and worked with other musicians including Eric Clapton, Bob Dylan, Phil Spector, Roy Orbison, Tom Petty, and Ravi Shankar. He was also interested in Eastern mysticism and charitable causes.

[[Note (disambiguation)]]

Note has several meanings.

[[Ravi Shankar]]

CATEGORIES: Indian musicians, 1920 births, 2012 deaths

Ravi Shankar (7 April 1920 – 11 December 2012) was one of India's most famous musicians. Shankar was one of the first to bring aspects of traditional Indian music into  Europe and United States|American culture in the 1960s. He was a major influence on George Harrison, who was a member of The Beatles. Shankar is famous for playing the sitar, an Indian stringed instrument. He performed until his death. In 2005 he played at The Proms. His daughters Norah Jones and Anoushka Shankar are also well-known musicians.

[[Sentence]]

CATEGORIES: Sentences

A sentence is a set of words that are put together to mean something. A sentence is the basic unit of language which expresses a complete thought. It does this by following the grammatical basic rules of syntax. For example:"Ali is walking".

A complete sentence has at least a subject and a main verb to state (declare) a complete thought. Short example: She walks. A subject is the noun that is doing the main verb. The main verb is the verb that the subject is doing. In English and many other languages, the first word of a written sentence has a capital letter. At the end of the sentence there is a punctuation mark depending on whether it is a statement, a question, a command, a request or an exclamation. 

Compound sentences are sentences that are 

Connected by fanboys

F: for

A: and 

N: nor

B: but

O: or

Y: yet

S: so

Simple sentence is a sentence with a independent clause

An independent clause is a sentence with a subject and a verb and it can stand alone like for example I like ice cream 

i is the subject and like is the verb

And it makes sense. 

Though a dependent clause also has a subject and a verb but it does not make sense for example: they cheered because..

They is the subject and cheered is the verb, but it does not make sense on it’s own.

A complex sentence is a sentence that has one or two more independent clause and one dependent clause and is connected with a subordinate clause. 

[[James Joyce]]

CATEGORIES: Irish novelists, Irish poets, Works of James Joyce, Writers from Dublin, 1882 births, 1941 deaths

James Augustine Aloysius Joyce (Séamus Seoighe)  (2 February 1882 – 13 January 1941) was an Irish writer and poet of the modernist movement. He was from Dublin, Ireland. He wore an eyepatch, because of eye damage. He could not see well.

His books are written in a special style. At first he wrote in a way which describes very accurately how life is, in the short story collection called Dubliners.  In his next book, called A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, he started a new style.  It is called stream of consciousness, which is writing all the thoughts that a character has. His work influenced many other writers in the 20th century.

Some books that Joyce wrote are:

[[May 1]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

It is the last day of the first third of the year. The end of this day marks the end of the first third of a leap year. It also falls on the same day of the week as New Year's Day of the following year and additionally, New Year's Eve of the following year in years immediately before a common year. The end of the first third of the year for southern hemisphere DST countries occurs at 11:00 p.m.

[[Andes]]

CATEGORIES: Andes, Mountains of South America

The Andes are a mountain range along the western coast of South America.

They stretch over 7,000 km / 4,400 miles from the south of Argentina and Chile to the north of Colombia. They are also found in Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador.

The Amazon river system has its sources in the eastern flanks of the Andes.

The Andes are the longest exposed mountain range of the world, and the second-highest after the Himalayas. The Andes mountain range is the highest mountain range outside Asia.

Aconcagua, the highest peak, rises to 6,962 m (22,841 ft) above sea level. The top of Mount Chimborazo in the Ecuadorean Andes is the point on the Earth's surface most distant from its center. Mount Chimborazo is an inactive volcano in Ecuador, which last erupted over a thousand years ago.

[[February 21]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Meal]]

CATEGORIES: Meals

A meal is a serving of food eaten by human beings. Meals usually include several different types of food, such as grains, vegetables, fruit, and in some cases, meat. Meals have different names by time they are taken or by the type of food that is eaten.

[[Leipzig]]

CATEGORIES: Leipzig

Leipzig (Upper Saxon: Leibzsch or Leibz'sch) is the biggest city in the state of Saxony (eastern Germany). When Germany was divided into East and West Germany, Leipzig was one of the three biggest industrial cities in the East Germany.

Leipzig occupies 297.62 and is still an industrial city. 510,651 people are living in Leipzig as of 29 February 2008.

[[1351]]

CATEGORIES: 1351

[[January 30]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Evil]]

CATEGORIES: Ethics, Logic, Philosophy, Theology

Evil means something which is morally bad or wicked. It is the opposite of good. People may say that an action which hurts people or breaks certain rules such as the Ten Commandments is evil. A person or a group that does evil things may also be called evil.

[[1872]]

CATEGORIES: 1872

1872 was a leap year in the 19th century.

[[Poznań]]

CATEGORIES: Poznań

Poznań (German name: Posen) is the biggest city and capital of Greater Poland Voivodeship in Poland, one of the oldest and the biggest cities in Poland. Its population is about 560,000 and its area is 262 square kilometers.

Poznań was one of the 4 Polish cities where the UEFA European Football Championship matches were played in 2012. Poland co-hosted the championship together with Ukraine.

[[Cartoonist]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoonists

A cartoonist is a person who draws cartoons. Cartoons can be pictures on a printed page (also called comics or comic strips) or moving pictures on film (also called animation). Both kinds of cartoons can be found on the internet. Examples of some famous cartoonists are:

[[Jim Henson]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 1990 deaths, Actors from Mississippi, American artists, American movie directors, American movie producers, American television actors, American television directors, American television producers, American television writers, Puppeteers, American voice actors, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Deaths from sepsis, Infectious disease deaths in New York City, Muppets, Writers from Mississippi, Emmy Award winners

James Maury "Jim" Henson (September 24, 1936 – May 16, 1990) was an American artist, animator, puppeteer, and television. He was best known for his work with the Muppets, which he helped to create.

Henson's best known puppet is Kermit the Frog.  As a puppeteer, Henson performed in various television programs, such as Sesame Street and The Muppet Show, movies such as The Muppet Movie and The Great Muppet Caper.  He also made puppets for projects like Fraggle Rock, The Dark Crystal, and Labyrinth.

[[Game Boy Advance Video]]

CATEGORIES: Game Boy

Game Boy Advance Video is a format of cartridges for the Game Boy Advance. They work the same as normal cartridge but play television shows instead of games. They generally contain 45 minutes of TV, for example, a show from Nickelodeon or Cartoon Network. They were first made in early 2004, but gradually stopped being made shortly before there were no more Game Boy Advance games made in 2008, with the final game for it being Samurai Deeper KYO.

[[Butterfly]]

CATEGORIES: Butterflies

A butterfly is a usually day-flying insect of the order Lepidoptera. They are grouped together in the suborder Rhopalocera. Butterflies are closely related to moths, from which they evolved. The earliest discovered fossil moth dates to 200 million years ago.

The life of butterflies is closely connected to flowering plants, which their larvae (caterpillars) feed on, and their adults feed and lay their eggs on. They have a long-lasting history of co-evolution with flowering plants. Many of the details of plant anatomy are related to their pollinators, and vice versa. The other notable features of butterflies are their extraordinary range of colours and patterns, and their wings. These are discussed below.

Angiosperms (flowering plants) evolved in the Lower Cretaceous, but did not become common until the Upper Cretaceous. Butterflies were the last major group of insects to appear on the planet. They evolved from moths in the latest Cretaceous or the earliest Cainozoic. The earliest known butterfly fossils date to the mid Eocene epoch, between 40–50 million years ago.

Like moths, butterflies have four wings covered with tiny scales. When a butterfly is not flying, its wings are usually folded over its back. The wings are patterned and are often brightly coloured. There are many different kinds of butterflies. The males and females of each kind are often slightly different from each other. Butterfly watching is a popular hobby. Some people also keep collections of dead butterflies that they have caught.

Like all insects with complete metamorphosis, a butterfly's life goes through four distinct stages. It begins as an egg, which  hatches into a larva (a caterpillar). After some time, the larva turns into a chrysalis. While it is in the chrysalis stage, it changes to become an adult butterfly. To complete the cycle, adults mate and the females lay the eggs.

Butterflies are any of the species belonging to the superfamilies Papilionoidea and Hedyloidea. Butterflies, along with the moths and the skippers, make up the insect order Lepidoptera. Butterflies are nearly worldwide in their distribution.

[[Nazism]]

CATEGORIES: Nazism

Nazism (or National Socialism; Nationalsozialismus) is a set of political beliefs associated with the Nazi Party of Germany. It started in the 1920's, but the Nazi Party gained power in 1933, starting the Third Reich.  They lasted in Germany until 1945, at the end of World War II.  National Socialism is an extreme right-wing, fascist, economically opportunistic ideology that is heavily inspired from the works of Oswald Spengler. The Nazis believed that only the Aryan race was capable of building nations and other races, notably the Jewish race, were agents of the corruptive forces of capitalism and bolshevism, both of which the Nazis opposed. The Nazis blamed the Jewish people for Germany's defeat in World War I. This is known as the Stab in the Back Myth. The Nazis also blamed the Jewish people for rapid inflation and practically every other economic woe facing Germany at the time as a result of their defeat in World War I. For this reason, the Nazis not only viewed the Jewish people as inferior to them, but as oppressors of the Aryan people. The Nazis' tactic of lazily albeit effectively blaming the Jewish people for all of Germany's problems is a propaganda tactic known as scapegoating and was used to justify the great atrocities committed by the Nazis against the Jewish people.

To implement the racist ideas, the Nuremberg Race Laws (created in 1935) banned non-Aryans and political opponents of the Nazis from the civil-service. They also forbid any sexual contact between 'Aryan' and 'non-Aryan' persons.

The Nazis sent millions of Jews, Roma, and other people to concentration camps and death camps, where they were killed. These killings are now called the Holocaust.

The word Nazi is short for Nationalsozialist (supporter of the Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei) in the German language. This means "National Socialist German Workers' Party".

[[Pork]]

CATEGORIES: Pork

Pork is meat that comes from pigs. It is the most commonly consumed meat in the world Evidence of pig husbandry dates back to 5000 BC.

A simple meal to make which contains pork is afelia. Sausages, bacon and ham are the most common uses of pork in the United Kingdom, the United States, and other parts of the Western world.February 2021 Pork is forbidden by the food taboos of kosher and halal.

[[Mike Farrell]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American political activists, American human rights activists, Democrats (United States), Actors from Saint Paul, Minnesota, Screenwriters from Los Angeles, California, Movie producers from Los Angeles, California, Movie directors from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Los Angeles, California, Writers from Saint Paul, Minnesota, 1939 births, Living people

Mike Farrell (born February 6, 1939) is an American actor, writer and producer. He played BJ Hunnicutt on the television series M*A*S*H. He played Michael "Mike" Hawks in the television movie Battered in 1978. He played Chicago real estate developer Lee Miglin in the limited crime series The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story.

Farrell was born in St. Paul, Minnesota. He was raised in Hollywood, California. He was part of the United States Marine Corps. Farrell was married to Judy Hayden from 1963 until they divorced in 1983. Then, he married Shelley Fabares in 1984. He has two children with Hayden.

Farrell is also an activist for various causes, including animal rights and world peace. He was Vice President of the Screen Actors Guild.

[[David Ogden Stiers]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2018 deaths, Actors from Illinois, Actors from Oregon, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American television directors, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from bladder cancer, Democrats (United States), Disease-related deaths in Oregon, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT people from Illinois, People from Peoria, Illinois

David Allen Ogden Stiers (October 31, 1942 – March 3, 2018) was an American actor, comedian, conductor, director, musician, singer and voice artist. He was most famous for his role as Charles Emerson Winchester III in M*A*S*H. He also provided the voices in several Disney animated movies. This included playing Cogsworth in Beauty and the Beast, John Radcliffe in Pocahontas, and Jumba Jookiba in the Lilo & Stitch franchise.

He also played the voice of Escher in the Myst V (End of Ages) video game.

[[Beauty and the Beast]]

CATEGORIES: Fairy tales

Beauty and the Beast is a French folk story. It tells the story of a merchant who is lost in the woods. He finds the palace of a beast who wants to kill him, and makes a deal with the beast, to have his daughter in exchange. The daughter goes to live in the Beast's castle; the two fall in love; and the beast turns into a prince.

The story has been published and revised in many versions, most notably Madame Gabrielle-Suzanne Barbot de Villeneuve's 1740 retelling and its revision in 1756 by Madame Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont.

It was the inspiration for many other stories, as well as a 1980s TV series starring Linda Hamilton and Ron Pearlman. Several movies have been based on it, most famously Jean Cocteau's 1946 version and the 1991 animated version by Disney, which was nominated for the Best Picture Academy Award and inspired a long-running Broadway musical.

[[Wayne Rogers]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2015 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Birmingham, Alabama

William Wayne McMillan Rogers III (April 7, 1933 – December 31, 2015) was an American television and movie actor. He played the role of "Trapper" John McIntrye on the TV series M*A*S*H. (The role was played by Elliott Gould in the 1970 movie version and Pernell Roberts on the 1979-1986 TV show, Trapper John MD). He left the show in 1975 and was replaced by Mike Farrell as BJ Hunnicutt. He graduated from Princeton University with a degree in history and served in the Navy before becoming an actor. 

Since retiring from acting, Rogers works as an investor and appears on many financial news shows.

Rogers died from complications of pneumonia in Los Angeles, California on December 31, 2015 at the age of 82.

[[McLean Stevenson]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1996 deaths, Deaths from bladder cancer, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American television presenters, Actors from Illinois, Golden Globe Award winning actors, People from Normal, Illinois

McLean Stevenson (November 14, 1929 – February 15, 1996) was an American actor. He is best known for his role as Henry Blake on the TV show, M*A*S*H. He left the show in 1975 and his character was killed off.

Stevenson was born in Normal, Illinois.

His grandfather Adlai E. Stevenson was Vice-president of the United States to Grover Cleveland, and his second cousin, once removed Adlai  Stevenson II was Governor of Illinois and unsuccessfully ran for President twice in the 1950s losing to Dwight D. Eisenhower both times.

Stevenson, while recovering from bladder cancer, died of a heart attack in Los Angeles, aged 68. Ironically, Roger Bowen, who played Henry Blake in the 1970 movie version of M*A*S*H, died the day after Stevenson did.

[[Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve]]

CATEGORIES: 1793 births, 1864 deaths, Russian astronomers

Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve (15 April 1793 – 23 November 1864 (Julian calendar: 11 November)) was a German-born Russian astronomer.  He was born in Altona (now an area of Hamburg), Germany, but later lived in Russia. He was an expert on double stars and one of the first astronomers to measure stellar parallax (closely related to the work by Friedrich Bessel).

While director of Dorpat Observatory (1817–39) he wrote Stellarum Duplicum et Multiplicum (1837), which proved that double stars are not exceptional and that star systems are governed by the laws of gravity. Struve added a lot to the study of galactic structure and also engaged in notable geodetic operations such as the triangulation of Livonia and the measurement of an arc of the meridian. In 1839 he became director of the new Pulkovo Observatory and was one of the first three astronomers who almost simultaneously obtained an approximate stellar parallax. (One of the others being Bessel)

In 1822 he published the first of many double-star catalogues, the identifying numbers of which are still used today. Struve's stars, however, are now often named in his honor (for example, Struve 2398), whereas the original catalogue prefix was the Greek letter sigma. In 1833 he moved to Russia to set up the Pulkovo Observatory near St. Petersburg, of which he was director until his retirement in 1862, when his son took over in the post. In total, Friedrich Struve produced 272 astronomical works and 18 children; his great-grandson Otto, by contrast, produced 907 works but zero children.

His son, Otto Wilhelm von Struve (1819–1905) succeeded him as director (1862–89) of the Pulkovo Observatory.

[[Mario Party (series)]]

CATEGORIES: Mario Party games

Mario Party is a series of video games made by Nintendo. The idea of each game is that Mario and his friends must travel across a game board and earn stars and coins. Each new game in the series contains new characters, playing boards, and mini-games. Every few turns, each character must participate in a mini-game. The winner generally gets 10 coins.

[[Helsinki]]

CATEGORIES: Helsinki, Olympic cities, 1550s establishments in Europe, 16th century establishments in Finland, 1550 establishments

Helsinki (Helsingfors) is the capital city of Finland. Helsinki is the largest city in Finland. 604,380 (31.12.2012) people live in Helsinki, and 1,360,000 live in the Helsinki metropolitan area.

Helsinki is in the south of Finland, on the coast of the Gulf of Finland. The city is in the Uusimaa region. When one looks from Helsinki, Tallinn is on the opposite side of the sea, but it is too far away to see. A poetic name for Helsinki is "the daughter of the Baltic Sea".

[[Jehovah's Witnesses]]

CATEGORIES: Jehovah's Witnesses, 1930s establishments in the United States

Jehovah's Witnesses are a religious group with more than eight million members around the world. They believe God, who’s name is  Jehovah (Ps. 83:18), will end crime, violence, sickness and death by destroying all wickedness in the world. They say that God's Kingdom (mentioned (thy Kingdom come) in the Lord's prayer) will restore God's original purpose for the Earth: bringing about peace for all humans who live by Bible standards.

Their beliefs are based solely upon the Bible. These beliefs were taught by Charles Taze Russell, a preacher who started a Bible study group in Pennsylvania in 1876.  The goal of Russell and other Bible Students, as the group was then known, was to promote the teachings of Jesus Christ and to follow the practices of the first-century Christian congregation. Since Jesus is the Founder of Christianity, they view him as the founder of their organization.—Colossians 1:18-20. They later started publishing a religious magazine called The Watchtower. 

Some of their beliefs, especially about who God is and what his plans are for humans and the earth, are different from what is taught in most Christian churches. Jehovah's Witnesses believe that only 144,000 people will go to heaven and that all the other people who obey God will live forever on a paradise Earth. They do not believe that God is a Trinity. They believe Jesus died on a pole (also called 'torture stake') rather than a cross. They teach that when people die, they remain in the grave until God resurrects them after God's Kingdom, or government, is ruling over earth. 

Jehovah's Witnesses are best known for preaching their beliefs from door-to-door and in other public places, and offering their magazines, The Watchtower and Awake! They are also well known for refusing to join armies and refusing blood transfusions.

[[Wife]]

CATEGORIES: Family

A wife is a married woman. "Married" means that the law says two people are legally "joined". During the marriage ceremony, the wife is called the bride.

In countries and times it has been different how many wives a man can have legally. In old times there were no limitations in some countries. In Christianity and Judaism a husband (a married man) can have one wife (monogamy). In Islam a husband can have up to four wives (polygamy).

There are some names for special kinds of wives. For example,

a queen is a wife of a king. 

A man whose wife is deceased is called a widower.

[[Catherine Parr]]

CATEGORIES: 1512 births, 1548 deaths, English Anglicans, English Roman Catholics, Former Roman Catholics, Kings and Queens consort of England, Royalty from London

Catherine Parr (alternatively Katherine or Kateryn)  (c.1512 – 5 September 1548) was Queen of England and of Ireland (1543–47). She was the last of the six wives of King Henry VIII.  She married him on 12 July 1543, and outlived him by one year.  She was also the most-married English queen, with four husbands. She was also the first woman to be queen of both England and Ireland.

Catherine had a close relationship with Henry's three children. She personally helped teach school for Elizabeth and Edward, both of whom became English monarchs. She helped get the Third Succession Act in 1543 passed. This placed Mary I and Elizabeth I, back into the line of succession to the British throne.

Henry died on 28 January 1547. Six months after Henry's death, she married her fourth and final husband, Thomas Seymour, the Baron of Sudeley. 

Catherine gave birth to her only child — a daughter, Mary Seymour. She was named after Catherine's stepdaughter Mary – on 30 August 1548. She died only six days later, on 5 September 1548, at Sudeley Castle in Gloucestershire, from what was probably childbed fever (sepsis). This was common at that time, because births did not happen in clean conditions. 

Many years later, in 1782, the coffin of Queen Catherine was found in the ruins of the Sudeley Castle chapel. 

[[Queen (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in England, 1970s British music groups, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, English rock bands, Musical groups established in 1970, Musical groups from London, Queen (band)

Queen are  a British rock band formed in London in 1970. They are one of the most commercially successful bands in history, selling over 300 million records worldwide. The original lineup consisted of Freddie Mercury (lead vocals, piano), Brian May (lead guitar, vocals), Roger Taylor (drums, vocals), and John Deacon (bass guitar).

Freddie Mercury died of an AIDS-related bronchopneumonia on November 24, 1991 aged 45. In 1997 John Deacon retired to spend more time with his family. The other two former members toured with Paul Rodgers from 2005 to 2009. In December 2018 it was announced Queen & Lambert will bring its Rhapsody Tour to The Forum in 2019. Three of their biggest hits were "Bohemian Rhapsody”, "We Will Rock You", and "We Are the Champions".

[[Simon & Garfunkel]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from New York City, American rock bands, Folk music groups

Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel were an American folk and rock music duo. They were two childhood friends, who found fame in the 1960s. Their songs, including "Mrs. Robinson", "So Long, Frank Lloyd Wright", "The Sound of Silence", and "Bridge Over Troubled Water", all composed by Simon, are still popular to this day.

Their free concert in New York City's Central Park in 1981 was the biggest concert ever, with 500,000 people (about the same number as Woodstock).

[[Madagascar]]

CATEGORIES: Madagascar, States and territories established in the 1960s, Gondwana, Least developed countries, 1960 establishments in Africa

Madagascar is a large island nation in the Indian Ocean. It is off of the east coast of Africa. Twenty-two million people live there; its capital is Antananarivo. It is the world's fourth largest island.

The official languages are Malagasy and French.

Geologists think that about two million years ago, Madagascar was a part of a big landmass that included what is now the continent of Africa, but it broke off. Madagascar would later break off of the Indian subcontinent.

[[Board game]]

CATEGORIES: Board games

A board game is a game usually played with pieces on a board, or some area with marked spaces.  

Most board games use pieces that may be moved, placed, or traded depending on the rules of the game. These pieces may be money, chips, pawns, or other objects. Board games may often involve some random chance with dice or cards.  There are many board games with a long history in some cultures.  Examples of these games are  chess, checkers, backgammon, parqués, and go. There are also a great number of popular board games that have been created more recently, in the past hundred years.  Among these games are Scrabble and Monopoly. 

Chess, and most versions of checkers, are played on a 8x8 square board with 32 white squares and 32 black squares. International checkers is played on a 10x10 square board.

Older than chess, but not by much, is tafl (pronounced 'tabl'), later called "hneftafl". This is an old Norse board game with just two types of pieces. Its pieces, when found in Britain, have often been wrongly ascribed to chess. In chess, of course, the board is different, and there are six kinds of pieces. 

[[Aerosmith]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Massachusetts, 1970s American music groups, 1980s American music groups, 1990s American music groups, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, Aerosmith, American rock bands, Musicians from Boston, Massachusetts, Musical groups established in 1970, Musical groups from Massachusetts

Aerosmith is an American rock band, formed in 1970 in Boston, Massachusetts. They have released many popular songs, including "Walk This Way" and "I Don't Want to Miss a Thing". They have their own Guitar Hero video game called Guitar Hero: Aerosmith. Their lead singer is Steven Tyler.

[[Brighton]]

CATEGORIES: Brighton

Brighton is a city on the south coast of England. It was called "Brighthelmstone". It is in the county of East Sussex. In 2000, it joined Hove to become the city of Brighton & Hove. Historically, Brighton forms the main part of the Brighton/Worthing/Littlehampton conurbation, with 474,485 inhabitants (2011 census). This is England's 12th largest conurbation, and the mostly densely populated area outside London.

[[April 20]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Vincent van Gogh]]

CATEGORIES: 1853 births, 1890 deaths, Artists who committed suicide, Dutch painters, Missionaries, People from North Brabant, Suicides by firearm, Suicides in France

Vincent Willem van Gogh (30 March 1853 – 29 July 1890) was a Dutch post-impressionist painter. His work had a great influence on modern art because of its striking colours and emotional power. He suffered from delusions and fits of mental illness. When he was 37, he died by committing suicide.

When he was a young man, Van Gogh worked for a company of art dealers. He traveled between The Hague, London and Paris. After that, he taught in England. He then wanted to become a pastor and spread the Gospel, and from 1879 he worked as a missionary in a mining place in Belgium. He began drawing the people there, and in 1885, he painted his first important work, The Potato Eaters. He usually painted in dark colors at this time. In March 1886, he moved to Paris and found out about the French impressionists. Later, he moved to the south of France, and the colors in his art became brighter. His special style of art was developed and later fully grown during the time he stayed in Arles in 1888.

[[April 2]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[October 14]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[February 2]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Rainbow]]

CATEGORIES: Optics, Weather

A rainbow is an arc of color in the sky that can be seen when the sun shines through falling rain. The pattern of colors, called a spectrum, starts with red on the outside and changes through orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet on the inside. Sometimes a second, larger, dimmer rainbow is seen.

A rainbow is created when white light is bent (refracted) while entering a droplet of water, split into separate colors, and reflected back. A rainbow is actually round like a circle. On the ground, the bottom part is hidden, but in the sky, like from a flying airplane, it can be seen as a circle around the point opposite the Sun. 

Rainbows often appear after storms, and are popular symbols for peace in many cultures.

[[Central Intelligence Agency]]

CATEGORIES: United States intelligence agencies

The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is a part of the Federal government of the United States located at the George Bush Center for Intelligence in Langley, Virginia.  The agency was formed after World War II in 1947. Many of the people who started the CIA were previously in the Office of Strategic Services, the main American spy agency during the war.  Gen. John K. Singlaub was one of the people who helped create the CIA.   

The United States of America has a history in intelligence services dating back to its origins. During the American Revolution, George Washington and other Founding Fathers of the United States such as Benjamin Franklin, Robert Morris and Patrick Henry used espionage networks.     

The current Director of the Central Intelligence Agency is Gina Haspel since April 26, 2018.   

The CIA is made up of four groups that each do different things. Their goal is to protect the US people. Many people feel that the CIA does more bad than good. Some people feel that the CIA does good by finding out secret information about enemies of the United States. Others think those secrets should remain secret. American law makes it illegal for the CIA and other agencies to kill foreign leaders. 

In 1992, Saddam Hussein tried to kill former President George H.W. Bush, who used to be director of the CIA, during a visit to Kuwait. The assassination plot was not successful. In retaliation, then-President Clinton ordered cruise missiles to be fired at the building of the Iraqi equivalent to the CIA. This occurred at night so only the cleaners were killed, not those who planned the assassination.

CIA has many clandestine, or secret, operations. Some CIA employees have been killed while working.  Their names are on a CIA memorial but some of the names are still secret.  The memorial has a star for them, instead, but the number of stars is deliberately inaccurate. 

The CIA also uses open sources to gather information. Analysts read foreign newspapers and watch foreign news broadcasts to learn information which can be pieced together to make a conclusion.

The CIA used to report to the President. After the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States, there was a reorganization so that the CIA and other intelligence agencies, report to a Director of National Intelligence.

The CIA has been featured in many TV and film productions - including, but not limited to, the American TV show "The Agency"; the American TV mini-series "The Company"; "Spy Game," starring Robert Redford and Brad Pitt; "Night Flight to Moscow," starring Yul Brenner; "Scorpio," starring Burt Lancaster; "Clear and Present Danger," starring Harrison Ford; "Ice Station Zebra"; and several James Bond films which featured CIA agent Felix Leiter.

[[1975]]

CATEGORIES: 1975

1975 (MCMLXXV) was 1975.

[[July 16]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Thomas Dolby]]

CATEGORIES: English musicians, Living people, 1958 births, New wave musicians, Warner Bros. Records artists

Thomas Dolby (born Thomas Morgan Robertson; 14 October 1958) is a British musican and computer designer. He is probably most famous for his 1982 hit, "She Blinded me with Science".

He married actress Kathleen Beller in 1988. The couple have three children together.

[[Seismic retrofit]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquake engineering

Seismic retrofitting is the modification of buildings that already exist to make them resistant to earthquakes. Seismic retrofitting techniques can be applied to other kinds of natural disasters such as tornadoes and strong winds from thunderstorms.

[[Company (disambiguation)]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

The word company has several meanings:

[[1890]]

CATEGORIES: 1890

[[Rio de Janeiro]]

CATEGORIES: Capital of Brazil, Former national capitals, Rio de Janeiro, Capitals of Brazilian states, 1565 establishments, 16th-century establishments in Brazil, 1560s establishments in South America

Rio de Janeiro is the second largest city in Brazil. It is the capital of the state of Rio de Janeiro. Until April 21, 1960 it was the capital city of Brazil. According to the 2000 Census, the city had 5,473,909 people, and an area of over 1,000 km2.  In 2008 Eduardo Paes became Mayor. The city was started in 1565.

Copacabana Beach, Ipanema Beach, Sugar Loaf Mountain (in Portuguese, Pão de Açúcar), the statue of Christ the Redeemer (in Portuguese, Cristo Redentor), a harbor on Guanabara Bay, and Tom Jobim Airport are in Rio de Janeiro. It has much commerce and many industries, especially textiles, food, chemicals, and metallurgy. Most of these industries are in the northern and western suburbs of the city. Rio de Janeiro also has a small rural area, near the suburb of Campo Grande, where fruits and vegetables are grown.

Other cities near Rio de Janeiro, like Duque de Caxias, Nova Iguaçu, Queimados and São Gonçalo, that form the Metropolitan Region of Rio de Janeiro, also have a lot of industries and population.

The city is 420 kilometers (about 261 miles) away from São Paulo, the biggest city in South America. The cities of Rio and São Paulo are linked by the Presidente Dutra Highway (also known as Via Dutra). The region crossed by the Presidente Dutra Highway has been an important industrial zone since the 1950s.

In the city of Rio de Janeiro lies Tijuca National Park, created in 1961. This park contains some 33 km2, between the northern and the southern parts of the city. The district (in Portuguese, bairro) of Santa Tereza can be reached by taking an electric tram (in Portuguese, bonde) from central Rio de Janeiro (near Largo da Carioca subway station), crossing over the Arcos da Lapa, an aqueduct built during the colonial period to provide water to the city.

The city hosted the Summer Olympic Games in 2016.

[[Andrew Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1767 births, 1845 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, Deaths from heart failure, Andrew Jackson, US Democratic Party politicians, Presidents of the United States, United States senators from Tennessee, United States representatives from Tennessee, Politicians from South Carolina, Military people from Tennessee, 19th-century American politicians, 18th-century American politicians

Andrew Jackson (March 15, 1767 – June 8, 1845) became a General in the War of 1812 and was considered to be a war hero. He became the seventh president of the United States of America. He was the first Democrat and is on the twenty dollar bill. His nickname was "Old Hickory". He forced many Native Americans to leave their homeland so white people could live there, and many died. This was called the Trail of Tears.

[[Pillow]]

CATEGORIES: Home

A pillow is a soft cushion that a person puts under their head when they are sleeping in a bed. 

A pillow is made from two pieces of cloth that are sewn together and stuffed with a soft material, such as feathers, duck down, or synthetic batting (man made soft stuffing). Pillows are usually rectangular. Pillows are covered with a fabric sheet called a pillowcase. The pillowcase protects the pillow from getting dirty.

[[Whaler]]

CATEGORIES: Boats, Occupations

A whaler is a person who hunts whales, or the boat they use.

They hunt whales for their oil, made from their fat, called blubber, and the meat. Today, there is a treaty which bans the hunt of some whale species. Most countries signed the treaty. A few countries still hunt whales for research purposes. Among those countries are Norway, Iceland and Japan.

[[Crayon]]

CATEGORIES: Crayons, Art, Writing tools

Crayons are writing tools made with colored wax, water, and citric acid or chalk. Young children often use them to draw. Some adult artists use them too. They melt at a low temperature so they can be used in crayon-drip art. One very well-known brand of crayons is Crayola, a company by Binney and Smith. 

[[Self-defence]]

CATEGORIES: Survival skills

Self-defence means fighting off something or another person to protect yourself and maybe others. Ways of self-defence include martial arts or using a weapon. Sometimes, self-defense can cause serious harm to the other person. In most nations, you cannot be prosecuted for this harm. In the United States, an act of self-defence can only count as self-defence if the victim is in a situation that can cause them serious injury or death. In international law all persons have the right to self-defence.

[[March 22]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[May 24]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1153]]

CATEGORIES: 1153

[[January 9]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1913]]

CATEGORIES: 1913

1913 (MCMXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar, and a common year starting on a Tuesday in the 13-day slower Julian calendar. It was the 913th year of the 2nd Millennium, 13th year of the 20th Century and the 4th year of the 1910s decade.

[[May 3]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1469]]

CATEGORIES: 1469

[[Dodgeball]]

CATEGORIES: Team sports

Dodgeball is a sport played by throwing soft balls, or hard rubber balls, at people in a square court. The goal is to be the last one to be hit with the ball. Players may only throw balls at people who are not on their own team. If a player is hit by the ball,he or she should go to the outside of the court to the other team. From the outside, players throw the ball at players still on the inside.

Dodgeball is often played in elementary schools in physical education classes. Many school children play this game. In recent years, many adults who played it as children have formed adult leagues and clubs. Also, some schools have banned it (this means that made it against the rules to play it), because players can get hurt when playing the game. Tournaments are sometimes held in schools.

Dodgeball, because of its recent popularity, inspired a film Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story (2004) starring Ben Stiller and Vince Vaughn, and a game show, Extreme Dodgeball.

[[Local area network]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

A local area network (LAN) is a computer network in a small area like a home, office, or school.  Many computers can be connected to share information and Internet connections. Most LANs use Ethernet to connect together.

[[February 18]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Pharaoh]]

CATEGORIES: Pharaohs

Pharaohs were kings of ancient Egypt. The word comes from the Coptic language word Per-aa, which means "Great House". Pharaohs were believed to be descended from the gods.

The Valley of the Nile had been lived in by early humans for at least 700,000 years. The area has a long history of human civilization, but Egypt as a state begins in about 5660 BC. At this time, the separate kingdoms of Upper and Lower Egypt were united.

People studying Egyptian history have divided the pharaohs into 31 groupings, called dynasties. These dynasties were usually, but not always, based on a related family group. During the long period of the pharaoh's rule over Egypt, there were times when they did not control the whole country. This means that some dynasties only controlled part of the country, and another dynasty ruled another part at the same time. Also there are not complete records, so there are gaps in the lists of pharaohs, and it can be very difficult to list the rulers in chronological order. The origins of the first pharaohs survive only as legends.

Before the union of Upper and Lower Egypt, kings wore crowns of different design, to show which part of Egypt they ruled. The red crown was worn in Lower Egypt. The white crown was worn in Upper Egypt. Later, kings of the whole of ancient Egypt wore a combination of the two crowns, called a Pschent.

When a pharaoh died, their personal treasure was buried with them; not the treasure of the entire kingdom. The pharaohs were buried in large tombs, the largest and most famous were the Pyramids. Many later pharaohs were buried in the Valley of the Kings. Paintings and writings discovered in these tombs have provided much of our knowledge of the pharaohs. New discoveries, such as that in 2014 of a new dynasty ruled by a previously unknown pharaoh, Senebkay, are changing what we know about ancient Egypt. They were mostly men, but there were women such as Cleopatra and Nefertiti. Pharaohs were considered to be half-man and half-god.

The first pharaoh was Narmer, though he did not use the term. The Egyptians believed their pharaoh was the god Horus. Pharaohs had several wives but only one wife was queen.

[[Gilligan's Island]]

CATEGORIES: American sitcoms, 1964 television series debuts, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

Gilligan's Island is a 1964 American television series. The series is about seven people (two crew members and five tourists) who take a 3-hour sightseeing tour from a marina in Hawaii. This occurs on the boat, S.S. Minnow. An unexpected storm sends the boat to an uncharted island. Now, the passengers of the boat have to live on the island and try to find a way home. Most of the episodes involved the characters trying to survive a problem or trying to contact help.

[[Diaper]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing

A diaper (or nappy) is a piece of clothing. It is worn by those who cannot control their urine or feces.

Diapers can be made of cloth (usually cotton) that can be washed and used again. They can also be disposable (put in the garbage after they are used up). Disposable diapers are usually made of plastic or man-made (artificial) fibers and contain chemicals that are  very absorbent.

Diapers that can be washed must be folded in intricate ways (like origami) before being put on. With the disposable you must constantly buy new ones.

Viewed as unpleasant by some, diapers are mostly used by children from birth until the child has learned to use a toilet. They are also used by older people. There are adult diapers for people with medical problems.

In the United Kingdom, Australia and several other countries, a diaper is called a nappy.

Sometimes adults who do not have medical problems also wear diapers.  This can be for different reasons.  Sometimes it is because they have a profession where they cannot always get to a bathroom, like astronauts. Some adults wear diapers for fun. This is usually a form of sexual pleasure, or for emotional reasons.  These people are often called "diaper-lovers" or "adult-babies." The scientific term for liking to wear diapers is "Diaper Fetishists."

[[Mork & Mindy]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 television series debuts, 1982 disestablishments in the United States, 1970s American television series, 1980s American television series, American science fiction television series, American sitcoms, Television series set in Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, Television spin-offs, 1978 establishments in the United States, ABC network shows, English-language television programs

italictitleMork and Mindy is an American television sitcom which ran from 1978-1982. It stars Robin Williams and Pam Dawber as the title characters. The series was made by Garry Marshall. Comedian Jonathan Winters has a recurring role in the series. Mork and Mindy is a spin-off from Marshall's other popular TV series, Happy Days. The plot of the series is that alien named Mork from a planet called Ork who travels to Earth and becomes friends with a woman named Mindy in Boulder, Colorado.

[[April 23]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1954]]

CATEGORIES: 1954

1954 (MCMLIV) was 1954.

[[American Samoa]]

CATEGORIES: American Samoa, 1967 establishments in Oceania, 1967 establishments in the United States

American Samoa en-us-American Samoa.ogg (local; Amerika Sāmoa, aˈmɛɾika ˈsaːmʊa; also Amelika Sāmoa or Sāmoa Amelika) is a territory of the United States.  It is part of the Samoan Islands in the southern Pacific Ocean.

In 1899, Germany and the U.S. divided the Samoan group of islands. The U.S. got the smaller group of islands on the east side.  These islands had a good harbor near the capital city, Pago Pago.  The western islands were run by Germany and then by New Zealand and are now the independent country Samoa.

Officially, American Samoa is an "unorganized" territory.  This means that the U.S. Congress has not passed an Organic Act.  But the people who live in American Samoa rule themselves.  Their constitution became effective on July 1, 1967.

The capital of American Samoa is Pago Pago, but the seat of government is Fagatogo.

[[Disgust]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Disgust is an emotion. People feel it when they see, touch, hear, or taste something that they think is nasty or repulsive. It is also caused by scorn. For example, when one finds something dirty or not fit to eat. Levels of disgust vary based on cultural, religious, and personal backgrounds/experiences. Disgust can be deliberate as someone can do something on purpose to create this emotion. 

[[February 7]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1723]]

CATEGORIES: 1723

[[Oven]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Cooking appliances

Ovens are closed, heated containers which are used for heating, baking, and drying. It is used the most often in cooking and pottery. They provide even, dry heat to all surfaces of food inside them. An indoor oven can have an electric heating element, or be fired by natural gas or coal. Outdoor ovens are often made of brick or clay and are buried in hot coals. An oven which is used for making pottery is called a kiln. An oven used for heating or industrial processes is called a furnace. They are hot inside, and often things come out of them hot.

[[Pot]]

CATEGORIES: Cookware and bakeware

A cooking pot is a vessel to cook in. It is often larger than a pan, and will be taller than it is wide.

Pots are used for boiling liquids, like soups or stew.

[[Liquid]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, States of matter

A liquid is a form of matter. It is settled between solid and gas. Liquid has an almost-fixed volume, but no set shape.

Every small force makes a liquid change its shape by flowing. Because of that, gravity makes liquids always take the shape of the container. The molecules that make up the liquid can freely move among themselves.

Fluids that flow slowly have a high viscosity. Some fluids like tar have such a high viscosity that they may seem solid.

It is difficult to compress a liquid. If a liquid is cooled down until it is colder than a certain temperature, it will become a solid.  This temperature is called the melting point or freezing point and is different for every different type of liquid.  If a liquid is heated up it becomes a gas.  The temperature this happens at is called the boiling point.  

Examples of liquid are water, oils and blood.

In a liquid, the liquid on the top presses down on the liquid underneath, so at the bottom the pressure, p, is bigger than at the top. The equation for working this out is:

where z is the depth of the point below the surface and g is how strong gravity is pulling on the liquid. ρ is a number that tells us how heavy a set amount of the liquid is. We call this the density and it is different for all liquids.

[[January 24]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[October 12]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1806]]

CATEGORIES: 1806

1806 (MDCCCVII) was 1806.

[[July 13]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[1836]]

CATEGORIES: 1836

[[White]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words

White is a color. White light can be made by putting all the other colors of light on the spectrum together. These other colors are red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet.

[[French Guiana]]

CATEGORIES: French Guiana

French Guiana (Guyane) is an overseas department and region of France, on the north Atlantic coast of South America. By land area, it is the second largest region of France and the largest overseas department of France and of the European Union.

Its prefecture and largest city is Cayenne.

[[Nigger]]

CATEGORIES: Pejoratives, English profanity, Slurs

Nigger is a racist insult against black people. Like the word "nigga", it can be used in pop culture slang. But it is mainly used by white supremacists.

The word came from a slang pronunciation of "negro", which is the word for the color black and for black people in Spanish and Portuguese. Before 1865 most black persons in the United States were slaves. So, the word "nigger" normally meant a slave. Writers such as Joseph Conrad, Mark Twain, and Charles Dickens used it.

Today, the word is an offensive racial slur in English, and is often thought as hate speech. "Nigger" has become so taboo in the United States that most people do not use the word; they instead call it the "N-word".

[[Biography]]

CATEGORIES: Genres, Literary terms

A biography is the story of a person's life. The word comes from the Greek words bios (which means life) and graphein (which means write). When the biography is written by the person it is about, it is called an autobiography.

A written biography is a part of literature. Biographies can also be made as movies (often called biopics) or told as stories.

The oldest written biographies that historians have were written to record rulers' lives. Some were written in Assyria, ancient Babylonia, ancient Egypt and ancient Mesopotamia. Biographies were an early form of history. Another early form of biography was called hagiography, meaning writing about holy people.

In ancient China, a biography was one of the basic forms of a history book. In India, biographies of Buddha and his reincarnated lives were written. In ancient Greece, people wrote biographies of people that were not rulers too. Xenophon wrote a biography of Socrates and gave this book the name Memorabilia (Memories). During the Roman Empire, Plutarch wrote Parallel Lives about ancient Greek and Roman politicians, and Suetonius wrote biographies of the Roman emperors. The Gospels were also biographies of Jesus Christ.

In West Africa, griots tell histories which often include biographies. 

Many written biographies today are released by publishers as products for sale.

[[January 3]]

CATEGORIES: Days of the year

[[Ralph Nader]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Politicians from Connecticut, American political activists

Ralph Nader (born February 27, 1934) is an American attorney, politician and political activist. He is best known for working for the rights of consumers, for his third party runs for President of the United States, and for helping George Bush get elected in the 2000 presidential election. He ran for president in 1996, 2000 and 2004, but failed to win. In the 2008 election, Nader placed third overall, with 660,094 votes, or about .38%. Nader was born in Winsted, Connecticut. His parents, Nathra and Rose Nader, were Lebanese immigrants. He is a fluent and native speaker of the Arabic language.

[[Jamie Farr]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Actors from Toledo, Ohio, American movie actors, American television actors

Jamie Farr (born July 1, 1934) is an American actor of Lebanese descent. He is best known for his role as Corp./later Sgt. Maxwell Q. Klinger on the 1970s TV show, M*A*S*H. His real name is Jameel Joseph Farha and he was born in Toledo, Ohio.

Farr also appeared in movies like The Blackboard Jungle (1955) and The Cannonball Run (1980), he was a regular "celebrity judge" on The Gong Show and has a golf tournament named after him.

[[Free software]]

CATEGORIES: Free software

Small text

Free software is software (computer program) that anyone may run, share and change, at any time, for any reason. In this case, "free" means "freedom-respecting" (we say "free as in freedom"). The opposite of free software is proprietary software.

In 1984, Richard Stallman started the free software movement when he began the GNU project. Examples of free software are Linux (the kernel), Blender, OpenBSD, Inkscape and others. Wikipedia also uses free software.

[[1804]]

CATEGORIES: 1804

[[1812]]

CATEGORIES: 1812

1812 was a leap year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.

[[Zookeeper]]

CATEGORIES: Occupations, Zoos

A zookeeper is a worker in a zoo, responsible for the feeding and daily care of the animals. As part of this, they clean the exhibits and report signs of bad health. They may also be involved in scientific research, and in public education, conducting tours or simply answering questions put by members of the public.

Qualifications and pay of zookeepers both vary widely. A junior keeper in a small zoo may have no qualifications other than an affinity for the job, while a senior keeper in a large zoo would most probably have both a relevant college degree and extensive experience.

Generally, a liking for animals and outside work and willingness to undertake moderate and sometimes dirty physical work are required. Many animals are themselves heavy and strong-smelling, as is the food some of them eat. Handling such is part of the job at times.

[[Cage]]

CATEGORIES: Containers, Traps

A cage is a box which is made to keep something inside of, without it being able to get out (such as an animal).  Cages are usually made of many metal bars.

A cage which has birds in it is called a "birdcage".  

[[Toddler]]

CATEGORIES: Children

A toddler is a very young child who is learning how to use their hands, stand and walk, and also how to communicate with others. 

Most children are toilet trained while they are toddlers.

Even when toddlers can walk, they are often transported in a stroller, buggy, or pushchair when the walk is a long distance or when they're tired. Toddlerhood typically begins after age one and is over by the time the child is 4, but this can differ depending on the child. 

[[Ronald McDonald]]

CATEGORIES: Mascots, McDonald's

Ronald McDonald is a clown character who is a mascot of the McDonald's fast-food restaurant. 

He wears yellow and red stipes and has wacky hair. He lives in McDonaldland, with lots of others including Grimace, the Hamburglar, Birdie the Early Bird, Mayor McCheese, and the Fry Kids.

The clown Michael Polakovs (known in America as Coco the Clown) designed his clothes and make-up. He appeared in the first eight of Ronald's television commercials. The actor Jeff Giuliano played Ronald McDonald for many years on television. Later he became a vegetarian, and was sorry he had spent so much time promoting hamburgers.

[[Bob Marley]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer deaths in Florida, Deaths from melanoma, American guitarists, Jamaican singers, Rastafari, Reggae musicians, Jamaican businesspeople, Singers from Delaware, Businesspeople from Wilmington, Delaware, Musicians from Wilmington, Delaware, 1945 births, 1981 deaths, Former Roman Catholics

Robert Nesta "Bob" Marley (February 6, 1945 - May 11, 1981) was an important Jamaican singer-songwriter and musician in the 1970s and 1980s. He made the style of reggae music very popular all over the world. His music told stories of his home and the Rastafarian religion that he followed. Some songs were about religion and some songs were about politics like Get Up Stand Up.

Bob Marley was born on February 6, 1945 in Nine Mile, Saint Ann Parish, Jamaica to a black teenager, Cedella Booker, and a white man named Norvall Marley. When he was young, his friends gave him the nickname, "Tuff Gong".  He started his music career in the 1960s with his group the Wailing Wailers (or simply the Wailers), that he formed with two friends, Peter Tosh and Bunny Wailer. In 1962, Bob Marley and the Wailing Wailers recorded their first two songs called "Judge Not" and "One Cup of Coffee".

Bob married Rita Anderson in 1966 and she joined the group as a back-up singer. They had five children together. One is Ziggy Marley, who is also a well-known reggae performer.

In 1974, the Wailers broke up because three of the band members wanted to pursue solo careers. Marley continued calling his band Bob Marley and the Wailers and joined together with new members to continue playing music. In 1975, Bob Marley had his first international hit called "No Woman No Cry". In Jamaica, he is considered a folk hero. Some other hits of his include "Three Little Birds", "Africa Unite", "Buffalo Soldier", and "One Love". His most popular studio album was called Legend, which includes his greatest hits.

Bob Marley died on 11 May 1981, at Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in Miami, Florida, of melanoma.

[[Leonardo DiCaprio]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American movie actors, American movie directors, American movie producers, American television actors, American voice actors, Movie producers from California, Movie directors from California, Satellite Award winners, Screen Actors Guild Award winners, Best Actor Academy Award winners, Golden Globe Award winning actors

Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (d; diˈkaːprjo; born November 11, 1974) is an American actor, movie director, movie producer and writer. He starred in every popular movies, including What's Eating Gilbert Grape, Romeo + Juliet, Titanic, The Man in the Iron Mask, The Beach, Catch Me if You Can, Gangs of New York, The Aviator, The Revenant and Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. His first movie was Critters 3.

In 2016, DiCaprio won his first Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of Hugh Glass in The Revenant.

[[John Candy]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 1994 deaths, Actors from Toronto, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Mexico, Comedians from Ontario, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Emmy Award winners

John Candy (October 31, 1950 – March 4, 1994) was a Canadian actor. He is known for his comic roles in many movies and television series.

[[Erwin Rommel]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 births, 1944 deaths, German generals of World War II, German Lutherans, German military personnel of World War I, People from Baden-Württemberg, Suicides by poison, Suicides in Germany, Victims of Nazism

Field Marshal Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel, The "Desert Fox" (15 November 1891 – 14 October 1944), was an officer of the German Army in World War I and World War II.

In WWII, he commanded the German Army in North Africa in a long struggle against the British 8th Army. He was finally defeated at El Alamein. Later in the war, he commanded the German forces defending the French coast against the Allied Normandy invasion.

Rommel was well liked by the German public and respected by the Allies. He was thought to be chivalrous and humane, when other German leaders were not. His famous Afrikakorps was not accused of any war crimes. Soldiers captured by his army were treated well and orders to kill captured Jewish soldiers and civilians were ignored.

Rommel knew of the plan by senior officers to assassinate Hitler in 1944. When it failed, all concerned were tortured and executed. Hitler offered him the choice of suicide or court-martial, and he committed suicide. His death was announced as the death of a hero in battle.

[[Fermentation]]

CATEGORIES: Fermented drinks, Fermentation

Fermentation is when a cell uses sugar for energy without using oxygen at the same time.  

'Fermentation' also describes growing microorganisms on a growth medium. This is done to get a chemical product. French microbiologist Louis Pasteur studied fermentation and its microbial causes. The science of fermentation is known as zymology.

Yeast is an organism that ferments.  When yeast ferments sugar, the yeast uses sugar and produces alcohol.  The process uses the coenzyme NAD: In metabolism, NAD helps redox reactions, carrying electrons from one reaction to another. Fermentation is a less efficient form of respiration than oxidative respiration (respiration using oxygen).

The ethyl alcohol produced by yeast is used to make beverages or biofuel. Yeast can be also used to grow bakery products like bread and cakes faster. In some cases yeast might be used to speed up the process of creation of wine.

Other cells make vinegar or lactic acid when they ferment sugar.  In a different way, the fermentation process can continue and turn the alcohol into vinegar i.e. acetic acid.

[[Flower]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Flowers

[[Penelope Taynt]]

Penelope is really Amanda Bines with a wig and glasses on.

[[1939]]

CATEGORIES: 1939

1939 World War II started in this year.

[[Square kilometre]]

CATEGORIES: Units of area

A square kilometer (sometimes written km²) is based on the SI unit of measurement of area, the square meter. It is the area inside a square that has each side equal to 1 kilometer (1000 meters). This way of talking about area is often used to say how much land there is, on a farm or in a city, for example.

One square kilometer is just less than 0.39 square miles.

[[Judge]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Law occupations

A judge is a person who is in control of a court of law.

The way to become a judge depends on each country. In some countries, judges must work with the law (often as a lawyer) for a number of years before they can "sit as a judge" in a courthouse.  Judges are supposed to conduct the trial in an open courtroom and impartially.

Juries are used in many English speaking countries, but not for all cases. The modern jury trial first developed in mid-12th century England during the reign of Henry II. Today, the details differ between one country and another.

If there is a jury, the judge has the job of making sure the person taken to court is treated in a fair way. Some courts will have more than one judge. For important decisions about the laws of a country, countries may have a supreme court or high court with many (nine or more) judges in it. In the United States, judges on a supreme court are called justices and are led by a Chief Justice.

In many countries, judges wear special clothes while being in court. Often this is a black robe or cloak. Supreme or High Court judges often wear a red cloak. Judges in some countries also wear a special long wig. They also used to put a piece of black material on their head when they sentenced a person to die.

[[Guilt (law)]]

CATEGORIES: Law

In criminal law, a person is guilty if a court has decided they have done something illegal. If a person has broken a law by stealing, for example, they are guilty of a crime.

A person is guilty if a court says they are. The court has blamed them for doing something wrong. A guilty person is punished. The punishment is called the sentence.

[[Length]]

CATEGORIES: Physical quantity

Length is a measurement. A ruler can measure length. The length of something is the distance between two ends of the thing. Short means a small length. Long means much length. Short and long are opposites. For two dimensional things, length is usually the longer side.

[[Weight]]

CATEGORIES: Measurement, Basic English 850 words

The weight of an object (or the weight of an amount of matter) is the measure of the intensity of the force imposed on this object by the local  gravitational field. Weight should not be confused with the related but quite different concept of mass. For small objects on Earth, the weight force is directed towards the center of the planet. For larger objects, such as the Moon orbiting around the Earth, the force is directed towards the center of mass of the combined system.

In common language, the weight of something is typically understood to be the value measured at or near the Earth's surface. Unfortunately the common terms used to describe the weight of an object are units of mass such as kilograms or pounds. For almost all of human history, weight has been measured on the surface of the Earth. Here, the weight is proportional to the mass. Objects which have the same mass have the same weight. An object with the twice the mass of another will also have twice the weight. As a consequence it is common practice to use the two words, mass and weight, as if they mean the same thing and to use kilograms and pounds as the units for both mass and weight. Using the same terms to describe and measure the two different properties has led to confusion between these two properties, mass and weight. Mass and weight are not the same thing.

[[Truth]]

CATEGORIES: Basic English 850 words, Logic

The truth is what is true. It may be everything that is true (reality) or just a part of it (a fact). It may also be a statement that is true: a truth. Things or statements that are not true are untrue or false. True things exist (or have existed); false things do not (or never have).

Aristotle said: "To say of what is that it is not, or of what is not that it is, is false, while to say of what is that it is, and of what is not that it is not, is true." However, a statement may be about how things once were; this would be a true statement if it is clear that it is not a statement about how things are now. Most often, the tense of the verb will indicate this, but there may be other ways in which the statement is qualified: for example, by saying when the statement was true.

Truth is a noun, and the corresponding adjective is true. The word true also functions as a noun, a verb and an adverb. The English word truth is from Old English tríewþ, tréowþ, trýwþ, Middle English trewþe.

Most of the discussion on truth is about one of two things:

Many philosophers have given opinions on these issues.

[[Zimbabwe]]

CATEGORIES: Zimbabwe, 1980 establishments, 1980s establishments in Africa

The Republic of Zimbabwe is a country in the southern part of the continent of Africa. Its capital city is Harare.

[[Monaco]]

CATEGORIES: Monaco, Italian-speaking countries, French-speaking countries, Current monarchies

Monaco, officially the Principality of Monaco (French: Principauté de Monaco), is the second smallest country in the world after the Vatican City; approximately 39,000 persons live there.  It is near south-eastern France, on the Mediterranean Sea in Western Europe. French is the most common language spoken in Monaco.  The Sovereign Prince of Monaco is Prince Albert II, whose family has ruled since 1297.  The government and the prince share power.  Tourism is the main industry. People in Monaco pay no income tax.

Monte Carlo, famous for its casino, is in the north-east of the country. Monaco is famous for two car races: the Monte Carlo Rally and the Monaco Grand Prix.

A sovereign and independent state, the Principality of Monaco has borders on its land-ward side with several communes of the French Department of the Alpes-Maritimes; from west to east these are Cap d’Ail, La Turbie, Beausoleil and Roquebrune Cap Martin. Seawards, Monaco faces the Mediterranean.

The population of the Principality consists of 39,102 inhabitants (2019), 5,070 of whom are Monégasques, 12,047 French and 5,000 Italian (according to the last official census in 1990).

Its surface area is 2.02 square kilometres, of which approximately 0.4 were recovered from the sea since 1980.

It lies in a narrow coastal strip which sometimes rises straight upwards with its highest point at 163 metres. Its width varies between 1,050 metres and only 350 metres. Its coastline is 4,100 metre long.

The Principality has only one commune, Monaco, whose limits are the same as those of the state.

Monaco is made of four districts: Monaco-Ville (historic seat of the Principality, on the monolith where the Prince’s Palace stands), Monte-Carlo (the district surrounding its Casino), La Condamine (around Port Hercules), and Fontvielle (the new industrial area built on ground reclaimed from the sea, which constitutes 0.22 square kilometres).

[[Graal]]

Graal can be:

[[Supermarkets in the United Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: United Kingdom-related lists, Supermarkets of the United Kingdom

The main supermarket chains in the United Kingdom are:

[[Jettingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities in Baden-Württemberg, Villages in Baden-Württemberg

Jettingen is a village in the south-west of Baden-Württemberg, Germany.

There are 7,657 people living in Jettingen.

[[Ken Jennings]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Television game shows, Living people, Jeopardy!, American bloggers

Kenneth Wayne Jennings III (born May 23, 1974) is the second-highest money earning contestant on the American television game show Jeopardy!.  He won a total of 74 times, earning $2,522,700.  His winning streak lasted from June 2, 2004 through November 30, 2004.  He lost after that time to a player named Nancy Zerg, who lost within a day to Katie Fitzgerald.  He was brought back to appear in the final three games of the show's Ultimate Tournament of Champions. In the tournament, he lost to Brad Rutter, who became the highest money winner on Jeopardy!.

According to the introduction given at the start of the show, Jennings is a "Software Engineer from Salt Lake City, Utah"  His highest one day total was a record $75,000, which was later broken by Roger Craig in 2010.  Jennings is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or Mormon.

In February 2005, Ken started appearing in Cingular commercials as himself.

In October 2008, Jennings appeared on an episode of Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader?. He won $500,000, making him the highest winner in game show history once again.

In February 2011, Jennings, along with Rutter, competed in the "IBM Challenge" against an artificial intelligence computer named Watson. Jennings placed second, losing to Watson. He won half of a $300,000 prize; with the other half going to charity.

In the spring of 2014, Jennings and Rutter competed in the Jeopardy! Battle of the Decades tournament.  They faced off in the finals alongside Roger Craig.  Rutter won the tournament with the $1,000,000 top prize, reclaiming the game show record from Jennings.

In January 2020, Jennings beat Rutter and James Holzhauer in Jeopardy! The Greatest of All Time, claiming the $1,000,000 first place prize.

During Season 37 of Jeopardy!, Jennings became a consulting producer and records video clues.  In January 2021, he became a guest host after the death of longtime host Alex Trebek.

[[Sublimation]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry, Physics

Sublimation is the process by which a solid transforms into a gas without passing through the liquid stage. It occurs when the particles of a solid absorb enough energy to completely overcome the force of attraction between them.  Most substances can sublimate only at low pressure.  Many can sublimate in space. 

Sometimes snow undergoes sublimation as well.  This is most likely to occur on sunny winter days when the air is very dry. Snow may look like it disappears on a cold sunny day, but this is not sublimation because it forms a thin layer of liquid water first.

At normal atmospheric pressure on the surface of the Earth, only some compounds like dry ice (solid carbon dioxide) can go through this process.  CO2 changes from dry ice, a solid to a gas without being a liquid.  Also diamond, graphite, iodine, ammonium chloride and aluminium chloride sublime rather than melt at atmospheric pressure.

[[Malcolm McDowell]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Actors from Yorkshire, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from West Yorkshire

Malcolm McDowell (born 13 June 1943) is an English actor. He has been in many movies, including: A Clockwork Orange, O Lucky Man! and Caligula.

McDowell lives in Ojai, California.

[[MAD Magazine]]

CATEGORIES: American magazines

MAD Magazine is a humor and satire magazine that started in 1952 as a 10 cent comic book parody of other comics. For its 25th issue it converted to a 25 cent magazine. It remains popular in the United States.

Each issue features the grinning red-headed mascot, Alfred E. Neuman on the cover, and comic-like articles making fun of recent movies, television series, music, trends, etc. as well as regular monthly features (Spy Vs. Spy, Monore, etc.)

[[Traverse City, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan, County seats in Michigan

Traverse City is a town in the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan, United States.  Traverse City is famous for its cherries.  It has a beautiful beach, world-class hotels, but the zoo has been closed because not many people visited it.

[[Will Smith]]

CATEGORIES: African American actors, American rap musicians from Pennsylvania, Singers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American television actors, American movie actors, 1968 births, Living people

Willard Carroll Smith, Jr. (born September 25, 1968) is an American actor and rapper from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He got his start as part of the rap duo DJ Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince. He became an actor when he starred on the television show The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air as Will Smith, a teenager from Philadelphia sent to live with his rich relatives in Southern California. He has appeared in many movies including Independence Day, Men in Black, Ali, Wild Wild West, The Pursuit of Happyness, I Am Legend, and in Suicide Squad.

Smith married actress Jada Pinkett in 1997. They have had two children Jaden and Willow.

[[Vladimir Putin]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Current national leaders, Presidents of Russia, Prime Ministers of Russia, Russian Orthodox Christians, Time People of the Year, Saint Petersburg State University alumni

Vladímir Vladímirovich Putin (Влади́мир Влади́мирович Пу́тин, ru-Putin.ogg) is a Russian politician. He is currently President of Russia. Putin was born in Leningrad, now Saint Petersburg, on 7 October 1952. He was the Prime Minister of Russia from 1999 to 2000, then President of Russia from March 2000 to May 2008, and Prime Minister again from 2008 to 2012. He became president again in 2012. He originally trained as a lawyer.

[[Henry VII of England]]

CATEGORIES: 1457 births, 1509 deaths, House of Tudor, 16th century in England, 1480s in England, 1490s in England, 1500s in Europe

Henry VII or Henry Tudor (28 January 1457–21 April 1509) was King of England from 1485 to 1509. He founded the Tudor dynasty by winning the battle of Bosworth Field in 1485. His son became king Henry VIII of England.

[[Dover, Kent]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

Dover is a town on the coast in Kent, in the United Kingdom. It was built by the Romans. There is a castle in Dover, called Dover Castle. It is the largest castle in England. The population is about 39,078. Throughout history, it has been an important port of Britain because it is the closest port to mainland Europe. The sea between Dover and the French port of Calais is called the Strait of Dover. It is the narrowest part of the English Channel at only 34 wide.

The ferry port in Dover has ferries to Calais, France and Ostende, Belgium. Almost 45,000 people and 15,000 vehicles pass through the port every day. On of the largest tourist attractions around Dover are the White Cliffs of Dover.

[[Tonbridge]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Kent

Tonbridge is a town in Kent in England. The River Medway runs through the town. A castle stands on the northern river bank in the middle of Tonbridge.

Tonbridge is linked by railways to London and Dover.

There are many secondary schools in the area. such as Tonbridge Grammar School

[[Inverness]]

CATEGORIES: Inverness

Inverness is a city in the northern part of Scotland. It is often called the capital of the Highlands. It is on the A9 road. Inverness Airport is an important way to get to the Scottish Highlands.

[[Boycott]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

A boycott is a protest where the protesters do not buy a product or give money to a company. Instead of buying a certain product, they might also buy another, very similar product from a different company.

The word was made during the Irish Land War'. It comes from the name of Captain Charles Boycott. Boycott was in charge of looking after the land of a landlord in County Mayo, Ireland. In 1880, the tenants (those who rented) wanted their rent lowered. Boycott refused, and threw them out of the land they had rented. The Irish Land League then proposed that instead of becoming violent, everyone in the community should stop doing business with Captain Boycott. The captain was soon isolated. No one helped him with the harvest, no one worked in his stables or his house. Local businessmen no longer traded with him, the postman no longer delivered his post. 

To get his harvest done, he had to hire 50 people from other counties, the counties Cavan and Monaghan. They were escorted to and from their work by 1000 policemen. Of course, this cost far more than what the harvest was worth.  

[[Artificial]]

CATEGORIES: Technology, Anthropology

When something is artificial, or man-made, it has been made by humans, not nature. For example, an artificial satellite is one made by humans, while a natural satellite is a satellite that was not made by humans. Many artificial things imitate or copy things found in nature. The imitation may use the same basic materials as those in the natural object; or it may use quite different materials, as in Artificial leather. These are concepts in defining reality. There are different ideas about what can be considered artificial and what is natural.

The word "artificial" comes from the Latin words art (meaning "skill") and fex ("to make").

Artificial does not necessarily mean synthetic (that is, created by synthesis). An artificial sweetener imitates sweetness using a chemical formula that is not found in nature; it is therefore both artificial and synthetic.

[[King Arthur]]

CATEGORIES: Arthurian legend

King Arthur was a mythical king in the mythology of Great Britain. He lived in the medieval times, in his famous castle, Camelot. He possessed a sword known as Excalibur, given to him by the Lady of the Lake.

King Arthur is a fabled ruler of Sub-Roman Britain who defended his kingdom from the Anglo-Saxons, and a popular fictional character in modern literature. He won several battles, and had many homes. However, his favourite home was in Camelot. One of the most famous tales of King Arthur is one where he pulls a sword out of a stone, making him King of the Britons.

The first narrative account of Arthur's life is found in Geoffrey of Monmouth's Latin work Historia Regum Britanniae (History of the Kings of Britain), completed no.

[[Johnny Appleseed]]

CATEGORIES: American folklore, Deaths from pneumonia, People from Massachusetts, Missionaries, 1774 births, 1847 deaths

John "Johnny Appleseed" Chapman (September 26, 1774 - March 11, 1847) is an American folk hero. He was a Christian missionary and pioneer. His nickname came from the fact that he planted apple trees throughout the American Midwest. Many people consider him an early conservationist or "tree-hugger". He wandered the country, usually barefoot, and with a cooking pot on his head for most of his adult life, planting apple trees, teaching the Bible, telling stories, and befriending Native Americans, wild animals, and other settlers. Many stories have been told about him and his journeys, as well as art, books, and later movies, which makes him a folk hero. He was born in Leominster, Massachusetts and is buried in Johnny Appleseed Park in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

