[[John Winthrop]]

CATEGORIES: 1588 births, 1649 deaths, British lawyers, Colonial Americans, Governors of Massachusetts, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, Politicians from Suffolk

John Winthrop (1588–1649) was the first governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Winthrop was born in Edwardstone, Suffolk. He was an English lawyer from a rich landowning family. He led a large group of Puritans from England in 1630. Winthrop served as governor to the newly formed Massachusetts Bay Colony and held that position for twelve years. He was one of the chief founders of New England. He saw the colony as a Puritan "City upon a hill" and a model to western Christianity. 

[[Jacques Cloutier]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, Quebec Nordiques players, Trois-Rivières Draveurs players

Jacques Cloutier (born January 3, 1960 in Noranda, Quebec) is a Canadian retired ice hockey goaltender. He currently works as the associate coach for the Calgary Flames.

[[Bluefish]]

CATEGORIES: Perciformes

Bluefish is a kind of fish which occurs in the Atlantic Ocean, the Mediterranean, the Black Sea, the Indian Ocean and the Pacific. It is a pelagic fish, which means that it lives near the surface of the ocean. They can grow to a size of 150 and reach a weight of 15. In the wild, they live to be about nine years old. 

Bluefish are predators: they hunt other fish, in small groups. Bluefish are caught commercially, and there is a problem with overfishing. 

Sometimes another species, Rock salmon or Coal fish is erroneously called Bluefish.

[[Economic liberalization]]

CATEGORIES: Economic policy

Economic liberalization is a theory about applying the ideas of classical liberalism to the government of a state: In very broad terms, it is about removing as much state control as possible from the economy. The state that follows this path often allows privately owned companies to do some things that governments usually do. 

[[Spitalfields]]

CATEGORIES: London Borough of Tower Hamlets

Spitalfields is an area in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets. It is near Brick Lane. Many immigrants went to live there in the past.

[[Barcode reader]]

CATEGORIES: Machines, Electronics, Barcodes

A Barcode reader or Barcode scanner is an electronic input device which is able to scan and decode barcodes. These devices use optical technology such as infrared light. Some readers use an integrated decoder, others have one unit for reading the barcode, and another one to decode the barcode. A barcode reader, also called a price scanner or point-of-sale ( POS ) scanner, is a hand-held or stationary input device used to capture and read information contained in a bar code . A barcode reader consists of a scanner , a decoder (either built-in or external), and a cable used to connect the reader with a computer. Because a barcode reader merely captures and translates the barcode into numbers and/or letters, the data must be sent to a computer so that a software application can make sense of the data. Barcode scanners can be connected to a computer through a serial port , keyboard port , or an interface device called a wedge . A barcode reader works by directing a beam of light across the bar code and measuring the amount of light that is reflected back. The dark bars on a barcode reflect less light than the white spaces between them. The barcode scanner then converts the reflected light energy into electrical energy, which is converted into data by the decoder and forwarded to a computer.

There are five basic kinds of barcode readers -- pen wands, slot scanners, Charge-Couple Device ( CCD ) scanners, image scanners, and laser scanners.

A pen wand is the simplest barcode reader. It contains no moving parts and is known for its durability and low cost. A pen wand can present a challenge to the user, however, because it has to remain in direct contact with the bar code, must be held at a certain angle, and has to be moved over the bar code at a certain speed.

A slot scanner remains stationary and the item with the bar code on it is pulled by hand through the slot. Slot scanners are typically used to scan bar codes on identification cards.

A CCD scanner has a better read-range than the pen wand and is often used in retail sales. Typically, a CCD scanner has a "gun" type interface and has to be held no more than one inch from the bar code. Each time the bar code is scanned, several readings are taken to reduce the possibility of errors. A disadvantage of the CCD scanner is that it cannot read a bar code that is wider than its input face.

An image scanner, also called a camera reader, uses a small video camera to capture an image of the bar code and then uses sophisticated digital image processing techniques to decode the bar code. It can read a bar code from about 3 to 9 inches away and generally costs less than a laser scanner.

A laser scanner, either hand-held or stationary, does not have to be close to the bar code in order to do its job. It uses a system of mirrors and lenses to allow the scanner to read the bar code regardless of orientation, and can easily read a bar code up to 24 inches away. To reduce the possibility of errors, a laser scanning may perform up to 500 scans per second. Specialized long-range laser scanners are capable of reading a bar code up to 30 feet away.

[[Chesapeake Bay Bridge–Tunnel]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in the United States, Transport in Virginia, 1964 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Virginia, 1999 establishments in the United States

The Chesapeake Bay Bridge–Tunnel (CBBT) is a combination bridge and tunnel in the U.S. state of Virginia. It is 23 long. It crosses the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay. It connects the Delmarva Peninsula's eastern shore with Virginia Beach and the metropolitan area of Hampton Roads, Virginia.

[[Diddy Kong Racing]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 video games, Nintendo 64 games, Racing video games, Donkey Kong

Diddy Kong Racing is a racing video game for the Nintendo 64 game console. It was developed and published by Rareware. It is the first spin-off of the Donkey Kong Country series. It was released on November 14, 1997 in North America, and on November 21, 1997 in Japan and Europe.

Diddy Kong Racing has gameplay that is similar to Mario Kart 64. It has an adventure mode with several worlds that have several race tracks, a battle stage, and a race against a boss. Players can choose to use a car, a hovercraft, or a plane, although some tracks make the player use one of those. Each track has boosters that make the player go faster, and balloons that give the player an item that they can use during the race. Players can choose from 10 characters. Two of the game's characters, Conker and Banjo, would later star in their own games. Conker went on to star in Conker's Bad Fur Day, while Banjo went on to star in Banjo-Kazooie.

A remake for the Nintendo DS called Diddy Kong Racing DS was released on February 5, 2007 in North America and on April 20, 2007 in Europe. It has better graphics and use of the console's touch screen. Banjo and Conker do not appear in it.

[[Polly Scattergood]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, English singer-songwriters, Living people, Musicians from Essex

Polly Scattergood (born 18 October 1986, Colchester, Essex, England), is a British singer-songwriter. She went to the BRIT School. 

[[BRIT School]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 establishments in England, London Borough of Croydon, Performing arts, Schools in London

The London School for Performing Arts & Technology, more commonly known as The BRIT School for Performing Arts & Technology, is a school in Croydon, London, England. It opened in 1991. It is the only free performing arts school in the United Kingdom. OFSTED rated it as 'outstanding'.

[[The Kooks]]

CATEGORIES: British rock bands, Indie rock bands, 2000s music groups

The Kooks are a English rock band. They formed in Brighton in 2002. In July 2005 they released their first single, "Eddie's Gun". They are signed to Virgin Records.

[[Assia Ahhatt]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Ukrainian singers, Violinists, Living people

Assia Ahhatt (Асія Ахат; born 3 June 1965) is a Ukrainian musician. She plays the violin. She has been a nominee and a winner of many international competitions in Italy and France. She has recorded several songs in which singing and violin were of equal importance.

Ahhatt was born in Kiev, in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.  She started to take violin classes at the age of five. She graduated from the National Music Academy in Kiev. She then studied at the Music Academy in Nice, France. She regularly performed in concert halls in Germany, France, Italy and other European countries. She was the soloist of the Ukrainian National Philharmonic. In 1999, she released her debut album Homo Novus, featuring modern instrumental music. In 2000 a nationwide promo tour of Homo Novus took place. Same year, Assia Ahhatt signed a contract with EMI records (Poland).  Later Assia signed a contract with Universal Poland, and recorded a song Where are you now? with Polish-born Hollywood actor Bogusław Linda. Linda also starred in the video for the above-mentioned song, which instantly became a hit in several European countries. Assia began her career as a singer in 2002. The same year, Assia Ahhatt was signed to a record label, Universal Ukrainian Records. She released an album Tebe, Anais (Тебе, Анаис; For You, Anais).

In 2003, she released an album Shokolad (Шоколад; Chocolate), which includes songs in Russian, Polish and French. Her next album was titled Dysha Bolela (Душа Болела; Soul Hurt), and was released in 2005. Same year she founded a group "69", and became it’s producer co-songwriter. Assia released the albums Goryachiy pocelui (Горячий поцелуй; Hot Kiss) and I Like It in 2006. In 2007, she released Ya lychshaya (Я лучшая; I Am The Best).

After this, she took a three-year break from her musical career. She did this to focus on her newly born son, Philip. In 2010, Assia released an album Angeli ne kuryat (Ангелы не курят, Angels Don’t Smoke). In 2011, Assia made some changes in her music career by introducing modern violin music, as her main creative direction.

She performed with musicians such as Kurt Elling and trumpet player Chris Botti, and  award-winning music composer Eric Serra. Assia Ahhatt records in the leading studios in Europe and the West Lake Studio in Los Angeles, USA. Studios was recorded her debut U.S. single “If only tonight" (2013) that instantly became a hit in America and headed several U.S. Charts:

‘If Only Tonight’ remix, made by legendary DJ Ralphi Rosario became an instant hit in all featuring dance clubs and discos from New York to Miami, L.A., and Honolulu, and, also, was in Billboard’s National Dance Club Chart for several weeks in a raw. 

After the remarkable success of  “If Only Tonight” Assia brought her attention to the Latin market.

The next Ahhat’s single, ‘Fiesta in San Juan’, which was recorded ft. Puerto Rican rapper, Wisin, is a dynamic dance composition, infused with the sounds of the wonderful violin solo.  ‘Fiesta in San Juan’ was again in Billboard’s Latin Tropical Chart, and its remix rapidly approaches Top 10 in Billboard’s National Dance Club Chart.

[[Marcello Malpighi]]

CATEGORIES: 1628 births, 1694 deaths, Italian biologists, Anatomists, Fellows of the Royal Society

Marcello Malpighi (10 March 1628 – 29 November 1694) was an Italian doctor, who gave his name to several physiological features, like the Malpighian tubule system.

Although the microscope was invented early in the 17th century, it was not much used until Robert Hooke improved the instrument. Then Marcello Malpighi, Hooke, Nehemiah Grew and Antonie van Leeuwenhoek had a virtually untried tool in their hands as they began their investigations.   

Working on frogs and extrapolating to humans, Malpighi demonstrated the structure of the lungs, previously thought to be a homogeneous mass of flesh, and he offered an explanation for how air and blood mixed in the lungs. Malpighi also used the microscope for his studies of the skin, kidneys, and liver. For example, after he dissected the body of a black man, Malpighi made some groundbreaking headway into the origin of black skin. He found that the black pigment was associated with a layer of mucus just beneath the skin.

He was the first to see capillaries in animals, and he discovered the link between arteries and veins. He may have been the first person to see this under a microscope. The microscope let Malpighi discover that the silk worm does not use lungs to breathe, but small holes in their skin called spiracles. This turned out to be true of all insects. 

Because Malpighi had a wide knowledge of both plants and animals, and he made contributions to the study of both. The Royal Society in London published two volumes of his botanical and zoological works in 1675 and 1679.  Another edition followed in 1687, and a supplementary volume in 1697. In his autobiography, Malpighi speaks of his Anatome Plantarum, decorated with the engravings of Robert White (1645–1703) as "the most elegant format in the whole literate world".   

[[M83]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in Europe, 2000s establishments in France, 2000s music groups, Electronic music bands, French musical groups

M83 is a French electronic music band. They formed in 2001. The band is named after a spiral galaxy. They have released eight albums. Their seventh album is the soundtrack to the science fiction movie Oblivion.

[[Artisan]]

CATEGORIES: Artisans

An artisan is a skilled worker who makes things with his or her hands. The things artisans make can be either for use or for decoration. Some of the things they make are furniture, sculpture, clothing, jewellery, household items, and tools. 

Sometimes artisans make things by hand that are usually made by machine today. The hand-made items can be called "artisanal". Some of those items are food products, including bread, beverages or cheese.

[[Ragnar Frisch]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 births, 1973 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Norway, Deaths from stroke, Nobel Prize in Economics winners, Norwegian economists, Writers from Oslo, University of Oslo alumni, Norwegian Nobel Prize winners

Ragnar Anton Kittil Frisch (3 March 1895 – 31 January 1973) was an Norwegian economist. He won the first Nobel Prize in Economics with Jan Tinbergen in 1969.

[[Jan Tinbergen]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1994 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Dutch academics, Dutch economists, Dutch Nobel Prize winners, Nobel Prize in Economics winners, Writers from The Hague

Jan Tinbergen (April 12, 1903 – June 9, 1994) was a Dutch economist. He won the first Nobel Prize in Economics with Ragnar Frisch.

[[Richard Stone]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1991 deaths, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, British Nobel Prize winners, Deaths from pneumonia, British economists, Infectious disease deaths in England, Scientists from London

Sir John Richard Nicholas Stone (30 August 1913 – 6 December 1991) was a British economist. He won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1984.

[[Harry Markowitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, American economists, American Nobel Prize winners, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Chicago

Harry Max Markowitz (born August 24, 1927) is an American economist of Jewish descent. He received the 1989 John von Neumann Theory Prize and the 1990 Nobel Prize in Economics.

[[Birinus]]

CATEGORIES: year of birth unknown, 650s deaths, Christian religious leaders

Birinus († 650), also St. Birinus was a missionary to Wessex and the first Bishop of Dorchester. His feast day is celebrated on December 3rd. 

[[Mechi Zone]]

CATEGORIES: Zones of Nepal

Mechi (मेची अञ्चल), is one of the fourteen zones of Nepal and one of the four zones of Eastern Development Region. It is the easternmost zone of Nepal, with its headquarters at Ilam.

[[Kellita Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from Chicago, Actors from Chicago

Kellita Smith (born July 11, 1969) is an American actor, voice talent and comedian. She was born in Chicago, Illinois.

[[Jeremy Suarez]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from Los Angeles County, California, Actors from Burbank, California, African-American movie actors, African-American television actors, African-American voice actors

Jeremy Steven Suarez (born July 6, 1990) is an American actor. He was born in Burbank, California.

[[Camille Winbush]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from Los Angeles County, California, Actors from Culver City, California

Camille Simoine Winbush (born February 9, 1990) is an American actor, voice talent and comedian. She was born in Culver City, California. She is perhaps best known for acting in The Bernie Mac Show.

[[Dee Dee Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Culver City, California, Comedians from Los Angeles County, California, Actors from Illinois, Comedians from Illinois, People from Olympia Fields, Illinois

Dee Dee Davis (born April 17, 1996) is an American actor, voice talent and comedienne. She was born in Culver City, California.

[[The Bernie Mac Show]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 American television series debuts, 2006 American television series endings, 2000s American television series, American sitcoms, Television series set in Los Angeles, California, English-language television programs

The Bernie Mac Show is an American comedy, drama and family television series. It is rated PG. It aired from 2001 to 2006.

[[Keegan-Michael Key]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Actors from Michigan, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from Michigan

Keegan-Michael Key (born March 22, 1971) is an American actor and comedian. He was born in Southfield, Michigan. He and Jordan Peele have a comedy show on MADtv.

[[Jordan Peele]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning writers, Satellite Award winners, 1979 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Movie directors from New York City, Movie producers from New York City, Screenwriters from New York City, Comedians from New York City, Actors from New York City

Jordan Peele (born February 21, 1979) is an American actor, comedian, director, producer and writer. He was born in New York City, New York.

Peele directed and wrote the 2017 horror movie Get Out, for which he won an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay.

[[Bobby Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American actors, American voice actors, American comedians, Comedians from California, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from San Diego, California

Robert "Bobby" Lee, Jr. (born September 17, 1971) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, singer, dancer, voice artist, and comedian, best known for his work on MADtv.

He was born in San Diego, California.

[[College of New Jersey]]

CATEGORIES: 1746 establishments, 1740s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in New Jersey, 1896 disestablishments, 1890s disestablishments in the United States, Disestablishments in New Jersey

[[Donkey Kong Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 video games, Arcade games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Atari 2600 games, Virtual Console games, Donkey Kong

Donkey Kong Jr. is an arcade video game made by Nintendo in 1982. It is the sequel to Donkey Kong. The game was ported to many home video game consoles, including the NES, Atari 2600, Atari 7800, and ColecoVision.  It was released for the Wii's Virtual Console in 2006. It was later released for the Nintendo 3DS from the Nintendo eShop service in 2012.

[[Donkey Kong Barrel Blast]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 video games, Wii games, Racing video games, Donkey Kong

Donkey Kong Barrel Blast, known as Donkey Kong Jet Race in Europe and Australia and as Donkey Kong Barrel Jet Race in Japan, is a racing video game for the Wii game console. It was released in Japan on June 28, 2007, in North America on October 8, 2007, in Europe on January 25, 2008, and in Australia on February 7, 2008. It was originally going to be released on the Nintendo GameCube and was going to use the DK Bongos, but was moved to the Wii.

[[Jan Swammerdam]]

CATEGORIES: 1637 births, 1680 deaths, Beekeepers, Dutch scientists, Naturalists, People from Amsterdam

Jan Swammerdam (12 February 1637 – 17 February 1680) was a Dutch biologist and microscopist. His work on insects showed that the stages an insect life – egg, larva, pupa, and adult – are different forms of the same animal. He did experiments on muscle contraction. In 1658, he was the first to observe and describe red blood cells. He was one of the first people to use the microscope in dissections, and his techniques remained useful for hundreds of years.

[[Ms. Pac-Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 video games, Arcade games, Namco video games, Game Gear games, Sega Genesis games, Nintendo Entertainment System games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games, Atari 2600 games, Commodore 64 games

Ms. Pac-Man is an arcade video game made by Midway Manufacturing (now Midway Games). It was released one year after Pac-Man, on January 13, 1982. It became one of the most popular video games of all-time after its release. This led Namco to make the game an official title in the Pac-Man series. It has a female character, new mazes, and changes in gameplay from Pac-Man. It is most successful American-made arcade game, selling 115,000 arcade cabinets.

[[M61 Vulcan]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons

M61 Vulcan is a hydraulic and pneumatic rotary cannon. It has six barrels. It is cooled by air and fires by the power of electricity. It is a Gatling-style rotary cannon. The size of its caliber is 20 mm. It fires at an very very high speed. It has been the main cannon armament of United States military fixed-wing aircraft for over fifty years. It was made by General Electric at first, but today it is made by General Dynamics.

[[First Presbyterian Church (Trenton, New Jersey)]]

CATEGORIES: National Register of Historic Places, Trenton, New Jersey, Presbyterianism, Churches in the United States, Buildings and structures in New Jersey, 1720s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 1726 establishments, 18th-century establishments in New Jersey

The First Presbyterian Church is a historic church in Trenton, New Jersey, United States. It is located at 120 East State Street. The church building was built in 1726. During the American Revolutionary War the British occupied Trenton. They used the church as a stable to keep their horses. It was repaired when they left. In 1804 the old stone church was taken down. A new church of all brick was completed in 1805. The church building was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2005.

The church graveyard is the burial place of at least two Revolutionary War notables. Colonel Johann Rall, Commander of the Hessians forces defeated by General George Washington. He died just after the Battle of Trenton. John Rosbrugh, was killed at the Battle of the Assunpink Creek (Second Battle of Trenton). He was the first U.S. chaplain killed in battle. The inventor of the steamboat, John Fitch, was a member of the congregation at First Presbyterian.

[[Feather River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of California, Butte County, California, Plumas County, California, Sierra County, California, Sutter County, California, Yuba County, California

The Feather River is a river in Northern California in the United States. It is a tributary of the Sacramento River. The river originates in the Sierra Nevada mountains and is 114 long, flowing in a general southward direction.

The river is an important source of drinking and irrigation water for California. Oroville Dam is located on the river, near the city of Oroville.

[[American River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of California, El Dorado County, California, Placer County, California, Sacramento County, California

The American River is a river in northern California in the United States. It is a tributary of the Sacramento River. The river starts in the Sierra Nevada and flows west through the city of Sacramento. The river is 50 long with a watershed of 5600.

Folsom Dam and Folsom Lake are located on the American river east of Sacramento.

[[John Rosbrugh]]

CATEGORIES: American military people, 1714 births, 1777 deaths

Rev. John Rosbrugh (c. 1714–1777) (also spelled Rosborough and Rosburgh) was a graduate of the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University). He was ordained a Presbyterian minister. In 1776 he organized and commanded the 3rd Northampton County, Pennsylvania militia. He then then accepted a commission as company chaplain. He was killed at the Battle of the Assunpink Creek, also known as the Second Battle of Trenton. Rosbrugh was the first U.S. chaplain ever killed in battle.

[[Grand Coulee Dam]]

CATEGORIES: Dams in the United States, Buildings and structures in Washington, 20th-century establishments in Washington (state)

The Grand Coulee Dam is a dam on the Columbia River in the United States state of Washington. The dam forms Lake Franklin D. Roosevelt. The dam was built between 1933 and 1942, with a new power plant added between 1997 and 1974. The dam is operated by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation.

Grand Coulee Dam is 168 high and 1592 long. The lake behind it can hold more than 12 of water.

The dam provides water for agriculture in Central Washington. Water is pumped from Lake Roosevelt to Banks Lake, located in the Grand Coulee. From there it runs by gravity to irrigate about 2700 of fertile farmland. Incorporated in the late 1940s and early 1950s, this scheme is known as the Columbia Basin Project.

Grand Coulee also produces hydroelectricity. In fact, it is the largest electric-power producing facility in the United States. At full load the dam can produce 6,809 megawatts or enough for 5 million typical American households. The dam was an important source of power for factories during World War II. Today, it provides much of the cheap electric power for the Pacific Northwest.

Among other benefits include flood control for the lower Columbia River and recreational boating and fishing on Lake Roosevelt.

As a consequence of the dam's construction, the reservoir flooded large tracts of Native American lands. Salmon can no longer migrate to the upper Columbia River system.

[[Gerry Desjardins]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, New York Islanders players, American Hockey League players, World Hockey Association players, Central Professional Hockey League players

Gerard Ferdinand Desjardins (born July 22, 1944 in Noëlville, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender.

[[Eugene O'Neill]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1953 deaths, American agnostics, American Nobel Prize winners, American playwrights, Disease-related deaths in the United States, Pulitzer Prize winners, Writers from New York City

Eugene Gladstone O'Neill (October 16, 1888 – November 27, 1953) was an American playwright. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1936. He won four Pulitzer Prizes throughout the 1920s and one even after his death in 1957.

[[All Is Lost]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 movies, 2010s adventure movies, American adventure movies, English-language movies, Survival movies, Lionsgate movies

All Is Lost is a 2013 American survival-adventure movie directed by J. C. Chandor. It only stars Robert Redford as a lost man at sea. The movie has almost no dialogue. It was released to positive reviews on October 18, 2013.

[[127 Hours]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 drama movies, 2010s adventure movies, 2010s biographical movies, American adventure movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Movies set in the 2000s, Survival movies, Utah, American independent movies

127 Hours is a 2010 American biographical drama movie directed by Danny Boyle. It stars James Franco as real-life canyoneer Aron Ralston, who became trapped by a boulder in Blue John Canyon, southeastern Utah, in April 2003. It received positive reviews, especially from Roger Ebert, Richard Roeper, and Peter Travers. It was released on November 12, 2010.

[[Rush (2013 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 drama movies, 2010s biographical movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, British biographical movies, British drama movies, English-language movies, Movies directed by Ron Howard, Sports drama movies

Rush is an American-British 2013 biographical-drama movie written and directed by Ron Howard. It is based on the true events about racecar drivers James Hunt and Niki Lauda. It stars Chris Hemsworth, Daniel Brühl, and Olivia Wilde. It was released to positive reviews on September 20, 2013.

[[Cut the Rope]]

CATEGORIES: Puzzle video games, 2010 video games, Mobile games, Windows games

Cut the Rope is a puzzle video game released by ZeptoLab. In it, the player must cut a series of ropes with their finger to feed a small creature named Om Nom a piece of candy. Once you have fed him the candy, the next level is unlocked. The game has been downloaded over 100 million times. The spin off games have also being released: Cut the Rope: Holiday Gift (2010), Cut the Rope: Experiments (2011), Cut the Rope: Time Travel (2013) Cut the Rope 2 (2013) and My Om Nom (2014 for Apple App Store and 2015 for Google Play Store).

[[United States Invasion of Panama]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 in the United States, 1990 in the United States, Conflicts, 20th century in Panama

The United States Invasion of Panama, codenamed Operation Just Cause, was the invasion of Panama by the United States in December 1989 and January 1990. This operation was done during the administration of U.S. President George H. W. Bush, and ten years after the Torrijos–Carter Treaties. By this treaty, it was accepted that the United States should give up control of the Panama Canal to Panama by 1 January 2000. 

During the invasion, the Panamanian leader, general and dictator Manuel Noriega was removed from his position and the elected president Guillermo Endara took control of the office. The Panamanian Defense Force was dissolved.

[[St Jude storm]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in the United Kingdom, 2013 in weather, 2010s in Belgium, 2013 in Germany, 2010s in Denmark, 2010s in the Netherlands, Disasters in Europe, Severe weather, October 2013 events

The St. Jude Storm also known as Cyclone Christian, was a severe European windstorm that hit Northwestern Europe from 27 October 2013 to 28 October 2013. The storm caused 17 deaths. Winds of up to 80–90 mph (130–145 km/h) were forecast for southern England, but the highest windspeed was in Denmark, where a gust of 120.8 mph (194.4 km/h) was recorded in the south of the country on the afternoon of 28 October, the strongest wind recorded in the country's history. Damage occurred in Denmark, Belgium, Germany, Netherlands, and United Kingdom.

[[Relative atomic mass]]

CATEGORIES: Chemistry

A relative atomic mass (also called atomic weight; symbol: Ar) is a measure of how heavy atoms are. It is the ratio of the average mass per atom of an element from a given sample to 1/12 the mass of a carbon-12 atom. In other words, a relative atomic mass tells you the number of times an average atom of an element from a given sample is heavier than one-twelfth of an atom of carbon-12. The word relative in relative atomic mass refers to this scaling relative to carbon-12. Relative atomic mass values are ratios;1 relative atomic mass is a dimensionless quantity. Relative atomic mass is the same as atomic weight, which is the older term.

The number of protons an atom has determines what element it is. However, most elements in nature consist of atoms with different numbers of neutrons.17 An atom of an element with a certain number of neutrons is called an isotope. For example, the element thallium has two common isotopes: thallium-203 and thallium-205. Both isotopes of thallium have 81 protons, but thallium-205 has 124 neutrons, 2 more than thallium-203, which has 122. Each isotope has its own mass, called its isotopic mass. A relative isotopic mass is the mass of an isotope relative to 1/12 the mass of a carbon-12 atom. The relative isotopic mass of an isotope is roughly the same as its mass number, which is the number of protons and neutrons in the nucleus. Like relative atomic mass values, relative isotopic mass values are ratios with no units.

We can find the relative atomic mass of a sample of an element by working out the abundance-weighted mean of the relative isotopic masses.17 For example, if a sample of thallium is made up of 30% thallium-203 and 70% thallium-205,

Two samples of an element that consists of more than one isotope, collected from two widely spaced sources on Earth, are expected to have slightly different relative atomic masses. This is because the proportions of each isotope are slightly different at different locations.

A standard atomic weight is the mean value of relative atomic masses of a number of normal samples of the element. Standard atomic weight values are published at regular intervals by the Commission on Isotopic Abundances and Atomic Weights of the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC). The standard atomic weight for each element is on the periodic table.

Often, the term relative atomic mass is used to mean standard atomic weight. This is not quite correct, because relative atomic mass is a less specific term that refers to individual samples. Individual samples of an element could have a relative atomic mass different to the standard atomic weight for the element. For example, a sample from another planet could have a relative atomic mass very different to the standard Earth-based value.

Relative atomic mass is not the same as:

[[Rodrigo López]]

CATEGORIES: 1525 births, 1594 deaths, Executed people, Jewish scientists, Physicians, Portuguese scientists

Roderigo López (1525 – June 7, 1594) was a physician of Portuguese background. He was tried and executed for trying to poison Elizabeth I. He is believed to be the inspiration for Shakespeare's character Shylock in The Merchant of Venice.

López was born into a family of Jewish origin in Portugal. He graduated from university with a degree in medicine. He went to England where he was appointed chief physician to Elizabeth I in 1586. He knew powerful men at court, and grew rich and respected. He was involved in various court intrigues until convicted of plotting to poison the Queen. He was hanged, drawn and quartered. 

Several contemporaries make reference to the trial and execution. Christopher Marlowe mentions it in Doctor Faustus as do Thomas Dekker in Whore of Babylon and Thomas Middleton in A Game at Chess. It is possible that Shylock in Shakespeare's The Merchant of Venice was inspired by López. my dads bald

Queen Elizabeth I’s physician, Roderigo Lopez, was tried and executed for allegedly plotting to kill the queen in 1594. As a Portuguese double agent, ‘Doctor Lopez a Jew’ was said to have conspired with the Spanish, England’s enemies at that time. He was accused of attempting to kill the Portuguese King Antonio and ‘take away Queene Elizabeths life by poyson’, in return for ‘fifty thousand Crowns’

[[Arletty]]

CATEGORIES: French actors, 1898 births, 1992 deaths

Arletty (15 May 1898 – 24 July 1992) was a French actress, singer, and model. She played Garance in the French movie Les Enfants du Paradis.

[[Les Enfants du Paradis]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 movies, 1940s drama movies, 1940s romance movies, French drama movies, French-language movies, French romance movies, Movies set in Paris, Movies set in the 19th century

Les Enfants du Paradis (Children of Paradise) is a French romantic drama movie. It was directed by Marcel Carné and released in 1945. It stars Arletty as French courtesan Garance. She is loved by four men: a street mime, an actor, a criminal, and an aristocrat. The story is set among the lower class theatres of Paris between 1820 and 1840. Garance is courted by four men but leaves them all because they will not allow her to love in her own way. The three hour film has been described as France's Gone with the Wind.

[[Dave Dryden]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, American Hockey League players, Buffalo Sabres players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Central Professional Hockey League players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Edmonton Oilers players, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, New York Rangers players, Ontario Hockey League players, World Hockey Association players

David Murray "Sod" Dryden (born September 5, 1941 in Hamilton, Ontario) is a Canadian retired ice hockey goaltender. Dryden was known for the distinction of creating (as well as being the first goaltender to employ) the modern day goaltending mask consisting of a fiberglass mask with a cage.

[[Michel Dumas]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Quebec, Living people, American Hockey League players

Michel Joseph Dumas (born July 8, 1949) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender. He currently works as a chief amateur scout for the Chicago Blackhawks.

[[IPad Air]]

CATEGORIES: IPad

The iPad Air is the fifth type of iPad made by Apple Inc. It was announced at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts on October 22, 2013. It first came with iOS 7 installed on it and was upgraded to other versions later. The iPad Air contains the 64-bit Apple A7 processor and another M7 coprocessor. Apple released the iPad Air on November 1, 2013. Sadly, it can’t support iPadOS.

The iPad Air is 7.5 millimeters thick, which is thinner than both the iPad 2 and the iPad Mini. It has a smaller screen bezel which looks like the one on the iPad Mini. However, it still uses the same 9.7-inch Retina Display as the previous iPad model. 

Its successor, the iPad Air 2, was announced on October 16, 2014.

[[Universal Mobile Telecommunications System]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 establishments, Telecommunications

The Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) is a third generation mobile cellular system for networks. It is based on the GSM standard and is part of the International Telecommunications Union IMT-2000 standard set. UMTS is developed and maintained by the 3GPP (3rd Generation Partnership Project). It uses wideband code division multiple access (W-CDMA) radio access technology so that users can transfer information faster.

[[Marinade]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking methods

Marination is the process of soaking foods in a liquid before cooking. The idea is to add flavour, and to tenderize tougher cuts of meat.

The liquid in question, the 'marinade', may be acidic (made with ingredients such as vinegar, lemon juice, or wine) or enzymatic (made with ingredients such as pineapple, papaya or kiwifruit). In addition to these ingredients, a marinade often contains oils, herbs, and spices to further flavour the food.

The process may last seconds or days. Different marinades are used in different cuisines. For example, in Indian cuisine the marinade is usually prepared with a mixture of blends.

[[Hôtel Ritz Paris]]

CATEGORIES: Hotels, Buildings and structures in Paris

The Hôtel Ritz is a grand hotel in the heart of Paris in the Place Vendôme. The hotel is ranked highly among the most prestigious and luxurious hotels in the world and is a member of "The Leading Hotels of the World".

The hotel has 159 rooms. It was founded by the Swiss hotelier, César Ritz, in collaboration with the chef Auguste Escoffier in 1898. The new hotel was constructed behind the façade of a Town house from the 18th-century. It overlooks one of the central squares in Paris.

It was one of the first hotels in Europe to provide a bathroom en suite, a telephone and electricity for each room. It established a reputation for luxury. The clients have included royalty, politicians, writers, film stars and singers. Several of its suites are named in honour of famous guests of the hotel, for example Coco Chanel and Ernest Hemingway who lived at the hotel for years. One of the bars of the hotel, Bar Hemingway, is devoted to Hemingway.

The Ritz has the reputation of being the most expensive hotel in Paris. The rooms as of May 2011 started at €850 a night. Suites start at €3,600 and cost up to €13,900 a night for the most expensive ones (the Suite Impériale is the most expensive). The Ritz employs more than 600 people.

L'Espadon is a world-renowned restaurant. It attracts aspiring chefs from all over the world who come to learn at the nearby Ritz-Escoffier School. The cuisine is run by the award-winning chef Michel Roth, the ninth head chef of the hotel. The restaurant was awarded a second star by the 2009 edition of the influential Michelin Red Guide.

During the Second World War, the German Luftwaffe used the hotel as local headquarters in Paris. The son of César Ritz, Charles, died in 1976. The last members of the Ritz family who owned the hotel sold it to the Egyptian businessman Mohamed Al-Fayed in 1979. In August 1997, Diana, Princess of Wales and Al-Fayed's son, Dodi, dined in the hotel's Imperial Suite before their fatal car crash.

The hotel is being entirely renovated. It has been closed since 1 August 2012 and will open its doors in March 2016, after a delay of nearly two years. Because of its status as a symbol of high society and luxury, the hotel has featured in many novels (for example F. Scott Fitzgerald's Tender Is The Night and Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises),

a play (Noël Coward's Semi-Monde), and films (such as Billy Wilder's 1957 comedy Love in the Afternoon and William Wyler's 1966 comedy How to Steal a Million).

[[Christian Gottfried Ehrenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1795 births, 1876 deaths, German doctors, Anatomists, Naturalists, German zoologists, Geologists, Foreign Members of the Royal Society

Christian Gottfried Ehrenberg (19 April 1795 – 27 June 1876) was a German naturalist, zoologist, comparative anatomist, geologist, and microscopist. He was one of the most famous and productive scientists of his time.

[[Afro-Haitian]]

CATEGORIES: Haiti, African people, Ethnic groups in North America

Afro-Haitians or Black Haitians, are Haitian people whose ancestors were Africans. Most Afro-Haitians are descended from West African slaves. The slaves were brought over to work in plantations, mainly for sugar canes.

The vast majority (about 90%) of Haitians are of African descent. Of them, about 25-30% are of mixed race or mulatto.

[[Mark Fitzpatrick]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, American Hockey League players, Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Carolina Hurricanes players, Chicago Blackhawks players, Florida Panthers players, Ice hockey people from British Columbia, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Living people, Los Angeles Kings players, Medicine Hat Tigers players, New York Islanders players, People from Toronto, Tampa Bay Lightning players

Mark Fitzpatrick (born November 13, 1968 in Toronto, Ontario) is a Canadian retired ice hockey goaltender.

[[Emile Francis]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Living people, New York Rangers players, American Hockey League players

Emile Francis (born September 13, 1926 in North Battleford, Saskatchewan), nicknamed "The Cat", is a Canadian retired ice hockey goaltender, coach and general manager.

[[Peggy Stewart]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2019 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Florida

Peggy Stewart (born Margaret O'Rourke; June 5, 1923 – May 29, 2019) was an American movie actress. She starred mostly in B-movies during the 1930s and 1940s. Her sister, Patricia O'Rourke, was an Olympic swimmer and was married to World War II hero and B-movie actor Wayne Morris.

Stewart was born on June 5, 1923 in West Palm Beach, Florida. She was married to Don Barry from 1940 until they divorced in 1944. Then she was married to Buck Young from 1953 until his death 2000. Stewart died on May 29, 2019 at the age of 95.

Stewart appeared in the 2012 Adam Sandler movie That's My Boy.

Stewart played Pam Beesly's grandmother, Mee-Maw, in a 2009 episode of The Office and reprised the role in a 2010 episode.

[[The Last Station]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, 2009 drama movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, German drama movies, Russian movies, Movies directed by Michael Hoffman

The Last Station is an American 2009 biographical-drama movie about last months of Leo Tolstoy's life. It was directed by Michael Hoffman. It stars Christopher Plummer, Helen Mirren, and Paul Giamatti. It was released to positive reviews on December 23, 2009. It was nominated for many awards.

[[Beginners]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 romance movies, 2010 comedy-drama movies, 2010s LGBT movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American LGBT movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Cancer in movies, LGBT comedy-drama movies, LGBT romance movies, Movies about families, Movies set in the 2000s, Works about old age, Works about widowhood, American independent movies

Beginners is a 2010 American romantic-comedy-drama movie directed by Mike Mills. It is about the story of Oliver, a man remembering the life and death from cancer of his widowed gay father, Hal, while trying to work a new romantic relationship with a Frenchwoman, Anna. 

It stars Christopher Plummer and Ewan McGregor. It was released to positive reviews on June 3, 2011. This movie lead to Plummer's first Academy Award win. 

[[9 (2009 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 movies, 2009 animated movies, American animated movies, American science fiction movies

9 is a 2009 adult animated science fiction movie directed by Shane Acker and produced by Tim Burton. It stars Elijah Wood, John C. Reilly, Jennifer Connelly, Christopher Plummer, Crispin Glover, and Martin Landau. It was released on September 9, 2009 to mixed reviews. 

[[Norman Tindale]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 births, 1993 deaths, Australian social scientists, Anthropologists, Archaeologists, People from Perth, Western Australia, Order of Australia, University of Adelaide alumni

Norman Barnett Tindale AO (12 October 1900 – 19 November 1993) was an Australian anthropologist, archaeologist and ethnologist. He worked for the South Australian Museum for almost 50 years. He is best known for his work mapping the various cultural groupings of Indigenous Australians.

He was born in Perth, Western Australia. His family moved to Tokyo in 1907, when he was a young boy. Norman was educated at the American School in Japan. The family returned to Perth in 1915, and then moved to Adelaide in 1917. Tindale got a job at the Adelaide Public Library. In January 1919, he got a job at the South Australian Museum as entomologist's assistant to Arthur Mills Lea. He had already published thirty-one papers on entomological, ornithological and anthropological subjects before receiving his Bachelor of Science degree at the University of Adelaide in March 1933.

Tindale began mapping the cultural groupings of Indigenous Australians early in his career. His interest in this began during a research trip to Groote Eylandt in 1921–1922. On the island, an Anindilyakwa man gave Tindale detailed descriptions of which land belonged to his family and which land did not. This led Tindale to question the widely held belief among European Australians at the time, which was that Aboriginal people were nomadic and had no connection to any specific area. Tindale's maps have been superseded by more accurate ones.

After his retirement from the South Australian Museum, Tindale began teaching at the University of Colorado. He lived in the United States until his death, aged 93, in Palo Alto, California.

[[Savoy Hotel]]

CATEGORIES: 1889 establishments in England, City of Westminster, Hotels

The Savoy Hotel is a luxury hotel on the Strand in central London. It was built by impresario Richard D'Oyly Carte with profits from his Gilbert and Sullivan operas, and opened in 1889. It was the first in the Savoy group of hotels and restaurants, which were owned by his family for over a century.  

The Savoy was the first luxury hotel in Britain. It had electric lights throughout the building, electric lifts, bathrooms in most of the lavishly furnished rooms, constant hot and cold running water, and many other innovations. D'Oyly Carte hired manager César Ritz and French chef Auguste Escoffier, who established the highest quality in service, entertainment and dining. The hotel attracted royalty and other rich guests and diners. Winston Churchill frequently took his cabinet to lunch at the hotel.

The hotel became Carte's most successful venture. Its bands, Savoy Orpheans and the Savoy Havana Band, became famous, and other entertainers (who were also often guests) included George Gershwin, Frank Sinatra, Lena Horne and Noël Coward. Famous guests have included Edward VII, Enrico Caruso, Charlie Chaplin, Otto Hahn, Harry Truman, Joan Crawford, Judy Garland, Babe Ruth, Laurence Olivier, Marilyn Monroe, John Wayne, Humphrey Bogart, Elizabeth Taylor, Barbra Streisand, Bob Dylan, The Beatles and numerous others.

The hotel is now managed by Fairmont Hotels and Resorts. It has been called "London's most famous hotel". It is still one of London's most prestigious and opulent hotels, with 268 rooms and panoramic views of the River Thames across Savoy Place and the Thames Embankment. The hotel closed in December 2007 for extensive renovations and reopened in October 2010.

[[Dorothy Kilner]]

CATEGORIES: 1755 births, 1836 deaths, British children's writers, Writers from London

Dorothy Kilner (17 February 1755 – 5 February 1836) was an English writer of children's books during the late 18th century.

Dorothy published her first books anonymously. She then published under the pseudonyms M. P. and Mary Pelham. This was common practice among female authors in that period.

Dorothy's most famous book was The Life and Perambulation of a Mouse. This was published in 1784. Some other books of hers are Anecdotes of a Boarding School, or an antidote to the vices of those Establishments (1790), Little Stories for Little Folks (about 1785), and The Village School (1795). Most of her stories had moral lessons.

[[Jessica Barth]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American writers, Living people

Jessica Barth is an American writer and actress. Jessica Barth studied acting and creative writing at the West Chester University.

[[Giovanni Ribisi]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people

Antonino Giovanni Ribisi (born December 17, 1974) is an American actor. He began acting on television shows, guest-starring in Friends. He starred in many movies, including Saving Private Ryan, Avatar and Ted.

[[Lawrence Kohlberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 1987 deaths, American psychologists

Lawrence Kohlberg (25 October 1927 – 19 January 1987) was an American psychologist. Today, he is mostly known for his theory, that the development of a sense of what is morally right or wrong occurs in different stages. There are three main stages, which are subdivided:

[[Ventriloquism]]

CATEGORIES: Performing arts, Puppets

Ventriloquism is a form of stage theater in which a person changes his or her voice so that it sounds like the voice is coming from somewhere else (usually a puppet or a dummy). A ventriloquist is one who performs this art.

[[Blobfish]]

CATEGORIES: Ray-finned fish

A blobfish  (Psychrolutes marcidus) is three species of a fish of the family Psychrolutidae. They live in deep waters off the coasts of Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand.

Blobfish are typically shorter than 30 cm. They live at depths between 600 where the pressure is several dozen times higher than at sea level.

Blobfish are often caught accidentally in bottom trawling nets. Scientists now fear the blobfish could become an endangered species because of deep-ocean trawling.

As often happens with common names, there is another fish which may also be called "blobfish". It is Macquarie blobfish, a species of Ebinania.

[[Chac]]

CATEGORIES: Maya civilization, Gods and goddesses

Chac (also spelled Chaac) is the rain god of the Maya. He has a lightning axe. He uses it to hit the clouds and make thunder and rain.

[[Shelby Foote]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from pulmonary embolism, American historians, Episcopalians, Writers from Mississippi

Shelby Dade Foote, Jr. (November 17, 1916 – June 27, 2005) was an American historian and writer. He was an important person for Civil War documentaries. He wrote many books about the war and Abraham Lincoln. His most famous book about the war was The Civil War: A Narrative.

[[Ken Burns]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, American historians, Movie directors from New York, Movie producers from New York, Writers from New York City

Kenneth Lauren "Ken" Burns (born July 29, 1953) is an American director and producer of documentary movies. He is known for his style of using archival footage and photographs. Burns is also a historian and writer.

His most widely known documentaries are The Civil War (1990), Baseball (1994), Jazz (2001), The War (2007), The National Parks: America's Best Idea (2009), Prohibition (2011) and The Central Park Five (2012). His movies have been nominated for two Academy Awards, and have won Emmy Awards, among other honors.

Burns was born on July 29, 1953 in Brooklyn, New York City, New York  His ancestors owned slaves, and one was a Confederate soldier. He studied at Hampshire College. Burns was married to Amy Stechler from 1982 until they divorced in 1993. He married Julie Deborah Brown in 2003, and  in 2017 they were still marrie..

Burns said that he is influenced by Shelby Foote and Errol Morris.

[[Female genital mutilation]]

CATEGORIES: Female reproductive system, Feminism, Anaphrodisiacs, Health, Human rights abuses, Sexuality, Traditions

Female genital mutilation (FGM) is cutting off part or all of the female genitals that are outside of the body.  FGM is also called female genital cutting and female circumcision.  It is done for traditional reasons, as part of a ritual, not for medical reasons.

FGM is most common in 27 African countries, as well as Yemen and Iraqi Kurdistan.  However, it also happens in other countries in Asia, the Middle East and around the world.  Usually, FGM is not done by a doctor or in a hospital.  It is often done with a razor blade or other sharp instruments, in many cases without anesthesia.

Different ethnic groups do different kinds of FGM. They also do FGM at different ages.  Some groups do FGM when infants are only a few days old.  Others do it when girls reach puberty, or are older.  In about half the countries where FGM happens, most girls have FGM before they are five years old.

FGM can cause serious health problems, like infections, chronic pain, trouble getting pregnant and giving birth, bleeding so bad that it can kill.  FGM does not make a person's health better in any way.

FGM is illegal in most of the countries where it happens.  However, these laws are often ignored.  Since the 1970s, many countries have tried to stop FGM.  In 2012, the United Nations General Assembly said that FGM is a human rights problem, and voted to try harder to stop it.  The World Health Organization and the "Maputo Protocol" to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights also say that FGM must be stopped.

[[Lightning strike]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Weather

A lightning strike (or a lighting bolt) is a line of electric energy that is made during thunderstorms. It is very powerful and can kill anyone that it touches. It usually strikes tall objects such as skyscrapers, trees and mountains. A few people have survived lightning strikes.

[[Bruce Hubbard]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 1991 deaths, African American musicians, Singers from Indiana, Baritones

Bruce Hubbard (1952–1991) was an American operatic baritone singer. He is known for appearing in several productions of Show Boat and Porgy and Bess.

Hubbard was born in Indianapolis, Indiana in 1951.

[[Tadeusz Mazowiecki]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Polish journalists, Polish philanthropists, Prime Ministers of Poland, Polish writers

Tadeusz Mazowiecki (18 April 1927 – 28 October 2013) was a Polish author, journalist, philanthropist and Christian-democratic politician. Mazowiecki was the first Prime Minister of Poland. His term began in 1989 and ended in 1991.

[[Heat lightning]]

CATEGORIES: Weather, Electricity

Heat lightning is the name for lightning from thunderstorms that are far away that is not followed by thunder. This happens because the lightning is far away and the sound of the thunder stops before it reaches the person watching the thunderstorm. Although it is named heat lightning, it does not have anything to do with the heat of the lightning itself. At night, lightning can be seen from up to 100 miles away, but the thunder doesn't go that far.

Heat lightning is often seen during the summer months. In Florida, heat lightning can often been seen over the water at night from thunderstorms that formed during the day.

[[Stansfield Turner]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2018 deaths, Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency, US Democratic Party politicians, Christian Scientists, Military people from Illinois, Politicians from Illinois, People from Highland Park, Illinois

Stansfield M. Turner (December 1, 1923 – January 18, 2018) was a United States Navy admiral and former Director of Central Intelligence and President of the Naval War College. He was a senior research scholar at the University of Maryland, College Park School of Public Policy.

Turner was born on December 1, 1923 in Highland Park, Illinois. He studied at Amherst College, at the United States Naval Academy, and at Exeter College, Oxford. He was a Christian Scientist. Turner died in Seattle, Washington on January 18, 2018 at the age of 94.

[[Bronisław Geremek]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2008 deaths, Politicians from Warsaw, Road accident deaths

Professor Bronisław Geremek (Benjamin Lewertow; March 6, 1932 - July 13, 2008) was a Polish social historian and politician. Geremek served as Poland's Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1997 through 2000.

Geremek was born on March 6, 1932 in Warsaw, Poland. He studied at Warsaw University. Geremek was married to Hanna Geremek until his death in 2008.

Geremek died on July 13, 2008 after a car crash in Lubień, Poland. The cause of the crash was because Geremek fell asleep behind the wheel. He was 76 years old. A state funeral was granted for Geremek.

[[Philip Baker Hall]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Actors from Toledo, Ohio, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors

Philip Baker Hall (born September 10, 1931) is an American actor. He starred in Paul Thomas Anderson's movies, Hard Eight, Boogie Nights and Magnolia. Other movies included Air Force One, The Truman Show, Bruce Almighty, Rush Hour and The Amityville Horror.

Hall was born in Toledo, Ohio. He studied at the University of Toledo. He was married twice, both ended in divorce. Hall had two children. 

[[Dry thunderstorm]]

CATEGORIES: Severe weather

A dry thunderstorm is a type of thunderstorm where there is lightning and thunder, but most or all of the precipitation does not reach the ground. They usually happen in deserts or areas with low water vapor. Because dry air usually absorbs liquid water, the rain is absorbed before it reaches the ground. They happen a lot during the summer months in western North America.

Dry thunderstorms are dangerous because they can cause dust storms and wildfires. Dust storms can happen because the dry soil and sand are picked up by strong winds. Wildfires can happen because the lightning can hit trees and there is no rain to put out the fires.

[[César Ritz]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 births, 1918 deaths, Swiss businesspeople

César Ritz (23 February 1850 – 24 October 1918) was a Swiss hotelier and founder of several hotels. He gave his name to the Hôtel Ritz Paris and The Ritz Hotel in London. His motto was "king of hoteliers, and hotelier to kings". His name is the origin of the word ritzy.

[[Menu]]

CATEGORIES: Restaurants, Written communication

A menu is a list of dishes to be served at a meal. Menus have been around in Europe since the 18th century. There is a special need for them in Chinese cuisine because of the wide range of dishes on offer. Menus have been discovered from the Song Dynasty in China. In the larger cities of the time, the variety of cuisine from different regions led caterers to create a list for their patrons.

In restaurants, the modern menu, with dishes in a set order of courses, was invented by the great French chef Escoffier. Usually there are two types of menu at a good restaurant:

Lesser establishments might offer a chalkboard, with the advantage that items can be rubbed out or added on at short notice. Fish restaurants in particular depend on daily catches being supplied or bought in the early morning. They usually list fish freshly bought (as opposed to frozen).

In American restaurant management, "menu engineering" has become a branch of marketing.

[[Cinderella Castle]]

CATEGORIES: Disney - Orlando, Castles, 1971 establishments in Florida

Cinderella Castle (or Cinderella Palace) is the fairy tale castle at the center of two Disney theme parks: the Magic Kingdom at the Walt Disney World Resort, and Tokyo Disneyland at the Tokyo Disney Resort. Both castles are recognized all over the world. They are the main attraction for each of the theme parks.

[[Clay Aiken]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, American activists, American Idol contestants, American LGBT people, American singer-songwriters, American stage actors, US Democratic Party politicians, LGBT politicians, Politicians from Raleigh, North Carolina, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT singers, LGBT songwriters, Actors from Raleigh, North Carolina, Writers from Raleigh, North Carolina, Singers from North Carolina

Clay Aiken (born November 30, 1978) is an American singer-songwriter, author and activist. 

Aiken was born and raised in Raleigh, North Carolina. He was a contestant on the second season of American Idol in 2003. He is openly gay.

In 2014, Aiken announced his intentions to run for congress in North Carolina's 2nd congressional district against Republican incumbent Renee Ellmers. He officially filed to run on February 27, 2014.

[[Tokyo Disneyland]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 establishments in Asia, Chiba Prefecture, Disney theme parks, Theme parks in Japan, 1980s establishments in Japan

Tokyo Disneyland is a theme park at the Tokyo Disney Resort in Urayasu, Chiba, near Tokyo. It is 115 large.

Tokyo Disney Resort is one of five Disney Resorts in the world. It is one of the most famous theme parks in Japan. Maihama station is the nearest station. There are many kinds of tickets for visitors to choose from. The "After 6 passport" for admission after 6 p.m. is popular with high-school students and couples.

Tokyo DisneySea is nearby.

[[Virga]]

CATEGORIES: Precipitation

In meteorology, virga is precipitation that falls from a cloud but evaporates or sublimes before reaching the ground. It is seen a lot in deserts and temperate climates. These areas have low humidity and high temperatures which cause the rain to evaporate before reaching the ground. In North America, it is seen a lot in the Western United States and the Canadian Prairies. It is also seen a lot in the Middle East and North Africa.

[[Snow angel]]

CATEGORIES: Snow, Leisure

A snow angel is a design made in snow that looks like an angel. It is made by lying on one's back and moving one's arms up and down, and one's legs from side to side, to make the shape of an angel. Snow angels are often made by children.

[[Menrva]]

CATEGORIES: Etruscan gods and goddesses

Menrva is the Etruscan goddess of war, art, wisdom and health. She was often associated with the Greek goddess Athena. She was the precursor of the Roman Minerva.

[[Koreans in Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture, Korean people

Koreans are one of the largest ethnic minority groups in Japan. Many Koreans immigrated from the 1920s to the 1950s.

[[Commission]]

Commission can refer to several things:

[[Winnie Madikizela-Mandela]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Disease-related deaths in South Africa, Fraudsters, Kidnappers, Nelson Mandela, South African politicians, Thieves

Winnie Madikizela–Mandela (born Nomzamo Winfreda Zanyiwe Madikizela; 26 September 1936 – 2 April 2018) was a South African politician. She held several government positions and headed the African National Congress Women's League. She was a member of the ANC's National Executive Committee. Madikizela-Mandela was married to President of South Africa Nelson Mandela.

Madikizela-Mandela was born on 26 September 1936 in Bizana, Pondoland, Transkei, South Africa. She studied at the University of South Africa. She was married to Nelson Mandela from 1958 until they divorced in 1996. They had two children. Madikizela-Mandela died of complications from diabetes on 2 April 2018 in Johannesburg at the age of 81.

[[Harry Frederick Oppenheimer]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 2000 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Jewish businesspeople, People from Johannesburg, South African Jews, White South African people

Harry Frederick Oppenheimer (28 October 1908 – 19 August 2000) was a famous South African businessman of Jewish descent. Oppenheimer was the chairman of Anglo American Corporation for a quarter of a century. He was also the chairman of De Beers Consolidated Mines for 27 years until he retired from those positions in 1982 and 1984. He was close friends with President of South Africa Nelson Mandela.

Oppenheimer was born in Kimberley, Northern Cape, South Africa. He studied at Charterhouse School and at Christ Church, Oxford University. Oppenheimer was raised in Johannesburg.

The Harry Oppenheimer Fellowship Award Africa's premier research prize, is awarded every year by the Oppenheimer Memorial Trust, in memory of Harry Oppenheimer's commitment to an ideal of "unambiguous excellence."

Oppenheimer was married to Bridget Oppenheimer until his death in 2000. They had two children. Bridget died in October 2013.

Oppenheimer died in Johannesburg, South Africa from cancer, aged 92.

[[Shock site]]

CATEGORIES: Shock sites, Pranks

A shock site is a website that wants to be offensive and to shock people that see it. Shock sites usually show pictures that are meant to make people feel disgusted. These pictures are often violent, or pornographic. For example, in 2004 Goatse.cx showed a picture of a man stretching his anus. Often these sites are mentioned in emails, or online discussions, which tries  to trick users into following links to another website.

[[Armillaria gallica]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi

Armillaria gallica (synonymous with A. bulbosa and A. lutea) is a species of "honey mushroom" in the Agaricales order.

The species is common and ecologically important: it decays wood. It can live as a saprophyte, or as an opportunistic parasite in weakened tree hosts to cause root or butt rot. It is found in temperate regions of Asia, North America, and Europe. The species forms fruit bodies singly or in groups in soil or rotting wood. The fungus has been accidentally introduced to South Africa.

Armillaria gallica is a largely subterranean fungus, and it produces fruit bodies that are up to about 10 in diameter, yellow-brown, and covered with small scales. On the underside of the caps are gills that are white to creamy or pale orange.

The fungus develops an extensive system of underground root-like structures, called rhizomorphs which help it to decompose dead wood in temperate broadleaf and mixed forests. It has been the subject of considerable scientific research. Its ability to bioluminesce and its ability to form large and long-lived colonies are especially interesting.

[[Affirmative action]]

CATEGORIES: Discrimination, Education

Affirmative action (known as positive discrimination in the United Kingdom) is a policy where members of minority groups are given preference over members of more common or bigger groups. This is usually done to try to obtain some equality or balance. Positive discrimination is illegal in many countries.

It is most often found in education, employment and welfare.

[[Robinson Crusoe]]

CATEGORIES: English novels, 1719 books

Robinson Crusoe is a novel written by Daniel Defoe. It was first published on 25 April 1719 by William Taylor.xxv

The novel's full title is The Life and Strange Surprizing Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, Of York, Mariner: Who lived Eight and Twenty Years, all alone in an un-inhabited Island on the Coast of America, near the Mouth of the Great River of Oroonoque; Having been cast on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the Men perished but himself. With An Account how he was at last as strangely deliver'd by Pyrates.iii

The book is a fictional autobiography of the title character, Robinson Crusoe. Crusoe leaves the safety of his comfortable middle-class home in England and goes to sea. He is shipwrecked and becomes a castaway who spends years on a remote tropical island near Trinidad. He meets cannibals, captives and mutineers, and is eventually rescued.

For the first edition, Defoe pretended that the novel was a true story. He said the fictional protagonist Robinson Crusoe was the author and he pretended to be the editor of Crusoe's autobiography.vii This led many readers to believe that Crusoe was a real person and the book a true account of his life.

Many people think the story was influenced by the life of Alexander Selkirk. Selkirk was a Scottish castaway who lived for over four years on a Pacific island belonging to Chile called Más a Tierra. (In 1966, the island was renamed Robinson Crusoe Island.) However, there are other possible sources. For example, Ibn Tufail's earlier novel Hayy ibn Yaqdhan, also set on a desert island, may have inspired Defoe.

Critical response to Robinson Crusoe has been diverse and argumentative. There has been widespread disagreement about the novel's nature and origin, values, structure, and meaning. Literary historians have not agreed on Defoe's sincerity, exact intentions, and achievement in the book.viii

Robinson Crusoe was very popular as soon as it was published. Before the end of 1719, it had already run through four editions.xxv The novel's popularity has continued and it has become one of the most widely published books in history. It has prompted many imitations and adaptations for stage, film, and television.

[[Cloaking device]]

CATEGORIES: Optics, Science fiction

A cloaking device or invisibility cloak has long been featured in science fiction. Attempts have been made to devise a way to do it with objects, but results were disappointing until now. A paper in Nature Communications for September 2013 announces a new approach.

From reference 1, the two "supplementary movies" show the successful cloaking of a goldfish and a cat so far as they are within the experimental space.

[[Mehit]]

CATEGORIES: Egyptian gods and goddesses

Mehit is a goddess of lions and war in Egyptian mythology. She is the wife of the god Anhur, also a god of war.

She represented the full moon. Also called The Completed one (Eye of Horus)

[[Mandela and de Klerk]]

CATEGORIES: British drama movies, 1990s biographical movies, Nelson Mandela

Mandela and de Klerk is a 1997 British television movie about the relationship between President of South Africa Nelson Mandela and former State-Governor F. W. de Klerk. Sidney Poitier played Mandela and Michael Caine played de Klerk. It was released on February 16, 1997. 

[[Dennis Haysbert]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, African American actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, People from San Mateo, California, Saturn Award winners

Dennis Dexter Haysbert (born 2 June 1954 in San Mateo, California) is an American movie and television actor. He is known for appearing in the Allstate commercials. He also starred in many movies such as Major League. He also starred in the television show 24.

[[Nelson Mandela Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 establishments, Concrete bridges, Steel bridges, Nelson Mandela, Buildings and structures in South Africa, Transport in South Africa, Johannesburg, 2000s establishments in South Africa

The Nelson Mandela Bridge is a bridge in Johannesburg, South Africa. It was completed in 2003. The reason why the bridge was built was to connect two important business areas of Braamfontein and Newton. It was named after President of South Africa Nelson Mandela.

[[Night of Champions (2013)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in professional wrestling, WWE Night of Champions, Sports in Detroit, Michigan, 2013 in the United States, 2010s in Michigan, 21st century in Detroit, Michigan

Night of Champions (2013) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on September 15, 2013 at the Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan. It was the seventh yearly event with the "Night of Champions" name. Similar to the last five events, the concept of the show was that every championship in the company was defended at the event. 

[[David Harewood]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Actors from Birmingham, Black British actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

David Harewood, MBE (born 8 December 1965 in Small Heath, Birmingham, England), is an English actor.  He is known for playing David Estes in the Showtime series Homeland.

[[Idris Elba]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Actors from London, British DJs, British rap musicians, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English television producers, English voice actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Movie producers from London, Musicians from London, People from Newham (London borough), Screen Actors Guild Award winners

Idrissa Akuna "Idris" Elba GBR (born 6 September 1972) is a British actor, producer, musician and rapper. He is known for his roles in American Gangster, Takers, The Losers, Thor, Prometheus, Pacific Rim and Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom. He won a Golden Globe Award in 2011 and a Screen Actors Guild Award in 2016.

On 16 March 2020, Elba announced that he had been diagnosed with COVID-19 during the 2019–2020 coronavirus pandemic.

[[Marrakesh]]

CATEGORIES: 1062 establishments, Marrakesh, Establishments in Morocco, 11th-century establishments in Africa

Marrakesh, or Marrakech (Berber: ⵎⵕⵕⴰⴽⵛ; مراكش, Murrākuš) is an important city in the African country of Morocco. It is the fourth largest city in the country. Marrakesh is the capital of the economic region of Marrakesh-Tensift-El Haouz.

[[Goodbye Bafana]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 drama movies, 2000s biographical movies, 2000s prison movies, Movies set in the 1960s, Movies set in the 1970s, Movies set in the 1980s, Movies about Apartheid, Nelson Mandela, Prison drama movies, German drama movies, French drama movies, Belgian movies, South African movies, Italian drama movies, Luxembourgian movies, Movies directed by Bille August

Goodbye Bafana is a 2007 drama movie. It is about the life of Nelson Mandela when he was in prison. It stars Dennis Haysbert and Joseph Fiennes. It was released on February 11, 2007.August 2018

[[Winnie Mandela (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s biographical movies, 2011 drama movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, British biographical movies, British drama movies, South African movies, Movies about Apartheid, Movies directed by Darrell Roodt, Nelson Mandela

Winnie Mandela is a 2011 British-American drama-biographical movie. It is based on Anne Marie du Preez Bezrob's biography Winnie Mandela: A Life. The movie is directed by Darrell Roodt. It stars Jennifer Hudson, Terrence Howard, Wendy Crewson, and Elias Koteas. Image Entertainment released the movie in theaters on September 6, 2013.

[[Long Walk to Freedom]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 books, Autobiographies, Nelson Mandela

Long Walk to Freedom is an autobiography written by President of South Africa Nelson Mandela. It was published in 1995.

[[Andrés Pastrana Arango]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Presidents of Colombia, Ambassadors of Colombia, Roman Catholics, People from Bogotá

Andrés Pastrana Arango (born 17 August 1954) was the 30th President of Colombia from 1998 to 2002, following in the footsteps of his father, Misael Pastrana Borrero, who was president from 1970 to 1974.

In 1982, he began his political career, gaining a seat on the local Bogotá council. He also specialized in press articles on the production and trafficking of cocaine, for which he gained many journalistic awards. In 1991 he was elected Senator.

Arango was born on 17 August 1954 in Bogotá, Colombia. He studied at Our Lady of the Rosary University and at Harvard University. Arango married Nohra Puyana Bickenbach in 1981. They have three children.

His father, Misael Pastrana Borrero (1923 – 1997), was the 23rd President of Colombia serving from 1970 through 1974. His mother was consort María Cristina Arango Vega (1928 – 2017).

[[Jiangsu]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of China

Jiangsu is a province on the east coast of mainland China. Jiangsu borders Shandong in the north, Anhui to the west, and Zhejiang and Shanghai to the south. The capital of the province is Nanjing. Nanjing is the old capital of China.

[[Hell in a Cell (2013)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in professional wrestling, World Wrestling Entertainment pay-per-view events, Sports in Miami, Florida, 2013 in the United States, 2010s in Miami, Florida

Hell in a Cell (2013) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on October 27, 2013 at the American Airlines Arena in Miami, Florida. It was the fifth yearly event with the "Hell in a Cell" name.  

[[WWE Battleground]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in professional wrestling, World Wrestling Entertainment pay-per-view events, Sports in Buffalo, New York, 2010s in New York (state), 2013 in the United States, 21st century in Buffalo, New York

Battleground was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on October 6, 2013 at the First Niagara Center in Buffalo, New York. It was announced on the July 29 episode of WWE Raw as the new October WWE pay-per-view which would replace Over the Limit.

[[Attack on Titan]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 television series debuts, 2015 anime movies, 2018 anime television series, Anime series based on manga, Manga

Attack on Titan is a manga series written and illustrated by Hajime Isayama. It was adapted into an anime series and was produced by Wit Studio and Production I.G.  A 2015 film of the same name was released.

[[Logorrhea]]

CATEGORIES: Mental illnesses, Disorders, Human communication

Logorrhea is a disorder of  speech. It is a psychological disorder where a person speaks continuously in gibberish or makes no real sense. It is a sign of an underlying mental disorder, and needs psychiatric attention.

Logorrhea happens in many different psychiatric and neurological conditions. Some of these are glossolalia, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and schizoaffective disorder.

The term is sometimes used of someone who is just very talkative. This is meant to be a humorous reference.

[[SummerSlam (2013)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in professional wrestling, SummerSlam, Sports in Los Angeles, 2013 in California, 2010s in Los Angeles, California

SummerSlam (2013) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on August 18, 2013 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. It was the twenty-sixth yearly SummerSlam event that the WWE held.

[[Spiritual warfare]]

CATEGORIES: Christian theology

Spiritual warfare is a Christian belief of fighting against bad supernatural forces (demons). The existence of bad spirits which can affect humans is the main idea for this belief system. Many Christian groups have used ideas of this movement to hold back these bad forces. These ideas mainly come from Christian demonology. A way to fight these forces is by using prayer. Exorcisms (removing demons), laying-on of hands, fasting, or anointing with oil are also used.

[[Procellariidae]]

CATEGORIES: Seabirds

The family Procellariidae is a group of seabirds. It is made up of the fulmarine petrels, the gadfly petrels, the prions, and the shearwaters. This family is part of the bird order Procellariiformes (or tubenoses), which also includes the albatrosses, the storm-petrels, and the diving petrels.

[[Puffinus]]

CATEGORIES: Seabirds

Puffinus is a genus of seabirds in the order Procellariiformes. It is made up of about 20 small to medium-sized shearwaters. Two other shearwater genera are named: Calonectris, which comprises three large shearwaters, and Procellaria with another four large species. The latter are usually called 'petrels', although they are thought to be more closely related to the shearwaters than to the other petrels. Even though their name looks like puffin, the puffins are auks, and not related to the shearwaters in the genus Puffinus; the genus name Puffinus is actually a New Latin loanword based on the English "puffin".

[[No Mercy (2008)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in American television, 2008 in professional wrestling, History of Portland, Oregon, WWE No Mercy, 21st century in Oregon

No Mercy (2008) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on October 5, 2008 at the Rose Garden in Portland, Oregon. It was the eleventh and final No Mercy event held by the WWE.  

[[No Mercy (2006)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in American television, 2006 in professional wrestling, Raleigh, North Carolina, Sports in North Carolina, WWE No Mercy, 2000s in North Carolina, October events

No Mercy (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on October 8, 2006 at the RBC Center in Raleigh, North Carolina. It was the ninth No Mercy event held by the WWE and was a SmackDown! brand-exclusive event.  

[[Shooting of Trayvon Martin]]

CATEGORIES: Shooting of Trayvon Martin, 2012 in Florida, Deaths by firearm in Florida, Police misconduct

The shooting of Trayvon Martin was a killing which resulted in the death of a 17-year-old in Sanford, Florida, United States. It happened on the night of February 26, 2012. Martin was shot by George Zimmerman. The case has been given a lot of coverage by the media. Zimmerman was declared not guilty of manslaughter. However, many people believe Zimmerman racially discriminated Martin.

[[No Mercy (2005)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in American television, 2005 in professional wrestling, Sports in Houston, Texas, WWE No Mercy, 2005 in Texas, 2000s in Houston, Texas

No Mercy (2005) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on October 9, 2005 at the Toyota Center in Houston, Texas. It was the eighth No Mercy event held by the WWE.  

[[Léon Foucault]]

CATEGORIES: French physicists, 1819 births, 1868 deaths, Scientists from Paris, Burials at Montmartre Cemetery, Paris

Jean-Bernard-Léon Foucault (born September 18, 1819, Paris, France—died February 11, 1868, Paris), was a French physicist. He introduced and helped develop a way of measuring the absolute velocity of light with extreme accuracy. He provided experimental proof that the Earth rotates on its axis.

Foucault was educated for the medical profession, but his interests turned to experimental physics. With Armand Fizeau, he began a series of investigations of light and heat.

[[Schistosoma mansoni]]

CATEGORIES: Parasites, Flatworms

Schistosoma mansoni is a parasite found in the intestines of humans. It is a trematode that is one of the major agents of the disease schistosomiasis. The type of schistosomiasis caused by Schistosoma mansoni is intestinal schistosomiasis.

[[No Mercy (2004)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in professional wrestling, Sports in New Jersey, WWE No Mercy, 2004 in the United States, 2000s in New Jersey

No Mercy (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on October 3, 2004 at the Continental Airlines Arena in East Rutherford, New Jersey. It was the seventh No Mercy event held by the WWE.  

[[Pristichampsus]]

CATEGORIES: Crocodilia

Pristichampsus (also known as the saw crocodile) is an extinct crocodylian that grew to 3 metres in length. There are many different species: P. rollinatii, the type species from France, P. vorax from Wyoming and Texas, and P. geiseltalensis from Germany. 

[[Belly (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 crime movies, 1998 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, American gangster movies, Film noir, Movies about drugs, Movies set in Nebraska, Movies set in New York City, Omaha, Nebraska

Belly is a 1998 crime melodrama. It is about African American men and women who are caught up in violent drug-filled problems around New York City and Omaha. They begin off as friends who have elegant times and rob from others to make a living. Their friendship, however, goes downhill when their friends are raided by police and federal agents in Omaha and in New York. One friend is killed in the raid, and another gets arrested, after which he calls the girlfriend of his close associate while her telephone is wiretapped. That causes the close associate to turn against him. This movie has two different versions: one is longer than another. It was released November 1998. The reviews of the movie were not that positive. The movie was not a good performer at the box office.

[[Tropical Storm Debby (1994)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 Atlantic hurricane season, 1994 in North America, 1990s in the Dominican Republic, 20th century in Puerto Rico, Montserrat

Tropical Storm Debby was a severe storm in some areas of the Caribbean region in September 1994. The highest winds of Debby were 70 mph. The storm did between $100 million to $130 million overall in damage. Nine people died because of this storm. Puerto Rico, Montserrat and the Dominican Republic were affected especially bad. Despite the severity, the name Debby was not retired the following spring.

[[Kathleen Hanna]]

CATEGORIES: American feminists, Musicians from Oregon, Musicians from Maryland, Punk musicians, 1968 births, Living people

Kathleen Hanna (born November 12, 1968) is an American musician and feminist activist. Her music is mostly punk rock and indie rock. She was the singer of Bikini Kill from 1990-1997. In 1998 she released a solo album called Julie Ruin. In the same year she formed Le Tigre with her friend Johanna Fateman. In 2010 she formed a band called The Julie Ruin. They released their first album Run Fast in September 2013.  The band went on tour after the release to support the album.

Hanna had Lyme disease for several years. She is married to Adam Horovitz, musician in the Beastie Boys. Some people, including Hanna herself, refer to her as radical feminist. Hanna was born in Portland, Oregon, and later raised in Maryland. She lives in New York.

[[Tortello Amaro di Castel Goffredo]]

CATEGORIES: Pasta

The Tortello amaro di Castel Goffredo is a type of stuffed pasta like ravioli. It is a recognized traditional food product of the Lombardy region, typical of the Castel Goffredo in the province of Mantua.

[[2010–11 New York Knicks season]]

CATEGORIES: National Basketball Association seasons, 2010 in sports, 2011 in sports, 2010 in New York (state), 2011 in New York (state)

The 2010–11 New York Knicks was the 65th season of the New York Knicks in the National Basketball Association (NBA).

[[Lenzie Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Scotland

Lenzie Academy is a secondary school in the town of Lenzie in the East Dunbartonshire council area of Scotland. Pupils from Lenzie, the village of Auchinloch and southern parts of Kirkintilloch go to the school. 

The school has had a number of pupils grow up to be famous in different fields.

[[Roman food]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Rome, Foods by nationality

Roman food was mainly obtained from the Mediterranean area and Gaul (now France). Romans enjoyed foodstuffs from the trade networks of the Roman Republic and Empire. Keeping up the food supply to the city of Rome was a major political issue in the late Republic. It became one of the ways the emperor expressed his relationship to the Roman people.

Three meals a day was normal in ancient Rome, as today. In the morning, a breakfast called the ientaculum was served at dawn. Later, around 11:00 am, Romans ate a small lunch, and in the evening, they ate the cena, the main meal of the day. In the Empire period, the cena increased in size and diversity. It was now eaten in the afternoon. The vesperna, a light supper in the evening, was abandoned, and a second breakfast was introduced around noon, the prandium.

In the lower strata of society, the old routine was kept: it corresponded more closely to the daily rhythms of manual labor.

Originally flat, round loaves made of emmer (a cereal related to wheat) with a bit of salt were eaten; among the upper classes, eggs, cheese, and honey, along with milk and fruit were also consumed. In the Empire period, around the beginning of the Christian era, bread made of wheat was introduced. Later, more and more wheaten foods began to replace emmer bread. Poor romans ate bread, vegetable, soup and porridge. Meat and shellfish were a luxury, unless they lived in the countryside and could go hunting or fishing.

The bread was sometimes dipped in wine and eaten with olives, cheese and grapes. They also ate wild boar, beef, sausages, pork, lamb, duck, goose, chickens, small birds and fish. Romans liked to make mealtimes fun by roasting hare with wings stuck on them to look like a flying horse. 

At dinner slaves gave guests small hot bread rolls to wipe their plates clean. Roman flour contained a lot of dust and bits and this made bread so coarse that it wore down people's teeth. 

The wealthier Romans liked to eat snails flattened on milk, peacock's brains and flamingos tongues.

[[No Mercy (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in professional wrestling, Sports in Baltimore, Maryland, WWE No Mercy, 2003 in American television, 2000s in Baltimore, Maryland

No Mercy (2003) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on October 19, 2003 at the 1st Mariner Arena in Baltimore, Maryland. It was the sixth No Mercy event held by the WWE.  

[[Catopuma]]

CATEGORIES: Felines

Catopuma is a genus containing two small Asian felines, the bay cat (C. badia) and the Asian golden cat (C. temminckii). The bay cat is sometimes classified as Pardofelis bardia, and the marbled cat is also in that genus. Because the genetic evidence is that all three cats are closely related, they will probably all be put in Catopuma eventually.

The bay cat and the Asian golden cat are typically reddish brown in colour, with darker markings on the head. They live in forests in South East Asia. The bay cat is only found on the island of Borneo.

[[No Mercy (2001)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 in professional wrestling, Sports in St. Louis, Missouri, WWE No Mercy, 2001 in American television, 2000s in Missouri, History of St. Louis, Missouri

No Mercy (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on October 21, 2001 at the Savvis Center in St. Louis, Missouri. It was the fourth No Mercy event held by the WWF.  

[[No Mercy (2000)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in professional wrestling, Albany, New York, WWE No Mercy, 2000s in New York (state), 2000 in the United States, October events

No Mercy (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on October 22, 2000 at the Pepsi Arena in Albany, New York. It was the third No Mercy event held by the WWF.

[[No Mercy (1999)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 in professional wrestling, Sports in Cleveland, Ohio, WWE No Mercy, 1999 in American television, 20th century in Cleveland, Ohio

No Mercy (1999) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on October 17, 1999 at the Gund Arena in Cleveland, Ohio. It was the second No Mercy event held by the WWF.  

[[José María Morelos]]

CATEGORIES: People from Michoacán, 1765 births, 1815 deaths, 19th century in Mexico, Executed people, Roman Catholics

José María Morelos y Pavón (30 September 1765 – 22 December 1815) was a Mexican Roman Catholic priest and revolutionary rebel leader. He led the Mexican War of Independence movement. He led the movement after the execution of Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla in 1811. He was later captured by the Spanish colonial authorities. He was executed for treason in 1815, in San Cristóbal Ecatepec.

Morelos was born in the city of Valladolid, which is now Morelia, Michoacán.

[[No Mercy (UK)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 in professional wrestling, WWE No Mercy, 1999 in England, May events, History of Manchester

No Mercy was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on May 16, 1999 at the Manchester Evening News Arena in Manchester, England. It was the first No Mercy event held by the WWF.  

[[Pain & Gain]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s thriller movies, 2010s comedy-drama movies, 2013 movies

Pain & Gain is a melodramatic 2013 criminal-comedy movie. It is about events which take place between late 1994 until mid 1995. These events involve several gangsters called The Sun Gym Gang. They kidnap several people, kill others, use steroids, rob armored vehicles and do certain drugs. The events within the movie, however, are fictionalized or made up versions for events that actually happened. The events did happen, although the real-life events are far different from those in Pain & Gain. The movie got mixed reviews, only half of which were good or positive. It performed well, though, in the overall box office. It was released April 26, 2013. Mark Wahlberg and Dwayne Johnson are in this movie.

[[Sooner or Later]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 songs, Pop songs, Jazz music, Madonna songs

"Sooner or Later" is a jazz ballad sung by Madonna. It is from the soundtrack of the movie Dick Tracy. The song was released in 1990. It won an Academy Award for Best Original Song at the 1991 Academy Awards. Several other musicians have covered this song.

[[Unforgiven (2007)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in professional wrestling, WWE Unforgiven, History of Memphis, Tennessee, 2007 in American television, 2000s in Tennessee

Unforgiven (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on September 16, 2007 at the FedExForum in Memphis, Tennessee. It was the tenth Unforgiven event held by the WWE.  

[[Extra Playful]]

CATEGORIES: John Cale albums, 2011 albums, Rock albums

Extra Playful is the third EP by multi-instrumentalist John Cale. It was released in September 2011. It was his first album on Double Six Records label.

[[Unforgiven (2006)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in professional wrestling, Sport in Toronto, WWE Unforgiven, 2006 in Canada, 21st century in Toronto

Unforgiven (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on September 17, 2006 at the Air Canada Centre in Toronto, Ontario. It was the eighth Unforgiven event held by the WWE.

[[Tommy Flowers]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1998 deaths, People from London, Civil servants, British engineers, Officers of the Order of the British Empire

Tommy Flowers OBE (Thomas Harold Flowers, 22 December 1905 – 28 October 1998) was a British engineer. During World War II, Flowers designed Colossus, the world's first programmable electronic computer, to help solve encrypted German messages.

The first Mark 1, with 1500 vacuum tube valves, ran at Dollis Hill in November 1943, and then at Bletchley Park in January 1944.

A Mark 2 redesign with 2,400 valves had begun before the first computer was finished. The first Mark 2 Colossus went into service at Bletchley Park on 1 June 1944, and immediately produced vital information for the imminent D-Day landing.

[[Penda of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 650s deaths, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Penda († 655) was a 7th century King of Mercia. He was a noble of the royal house of Mercia and a pagan his entire life. Penda was the central figure in English history from 632 until his death. Penda treated every Northumbrian king as his enemy, especially if that king had any influence in southern England.

[[Unforgiven (2005)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in professional wrestling, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, WWE Unforgiven, 2005 in the United States, 2000s in Oklahoma

Unforgiven (2005) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on September 18, 2005 at the Ford Center in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. It was the seventh Unforgiven event held by the WWE.  

[[P. G. T. Beauregard]]

CATEGORIES: 1818 births, 1893 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Confederate Army generals, American inventors, Businesspeople from New Orleans, Louisiana, Politicians from New Orleans, Louisiana, Writers from New Orleans, Louisiana

Pierre Gustave Toutant Beauregard (May 28, 1818 – February 20, 1893) was an American military officer, politician, inventor, writer, civil servant. He was the first prominent general of the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. Today, he is known as P. G. T. Beauregard, but he rarely used his first name as an adult.

[[Ken Hechler]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2016 deaths, American centenarians, Columbia University alumni, Episcopalians, Deaths from stroke, United States representatives from West Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians

Kenneth William "Ken" Hechler (September 20, 1914 – December 10, 2016) was an American politician. A member of the Democratic Party, he represented West Virginia in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1959 to 1977. Hechler was the West Virginia Secretary of State from 1985 to 2001. He was currently the oldest living person to have served in the United States Congress.

[[Unforgiven (2004)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in professional wrestling, History of Portland, Oregon, WWE Unforgiven, 2004 in American television, 21st century in Oregon

Unforgiven (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on September 12, 2004 at the Rose Garden in Portland, Oregon. It was the sixth Unforgiven event held by the WWE.  

[[Jersey Girl (2004 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 comedy-drama movies, 2004 romance movies, 2000s romantic comedy movies, 2000s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies, Movies directed by Kevin Smith, Movies set in New Jersey, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 1990s, Screenplays by Kevin Smith

Jersey Girl is a 2004 American drama-comedy movie. It was written and directed by Kevin Smith. It was produced by Scott Mosier. It stars Ben Affleck, Liv Tyler, Raquel Castro, George Carlin, Jason Biggs, Jennifer Lopez, Stephen Root, and Will Smith. Jason Lee, Matt Damon, and Betty Aberlin had cameo appearances.  

It was released on March 26, 2004 to negative reviews. Critic Roger Ebert thought the movie was good because he gave it 3.5 out of 4 stars. 

[[Birmingham Central Library]]

CATEGORIES: Libraries in the United Kingdom, Buildings and structures in England, Birmingham, 1974 establishments in England, 2013 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 21st century disestablishments in England

June 2018

Birmingham Central Library was the main public library in Birmingham, England. It closed on 29 June 2013 and was replaced with the Library of Birmingham.

It was once the largest non-national library in Europe. 

[[Pybba of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, Year of death unknown, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Pybba († 606) (also Pibba or Wibba) was an early Anglian King of Mercia. He is the common ancestor of the Mercian kings in the four Mercian genealogies. As such he's considered by many historians to be the first known king of Mercia. He was the father of kings Penda and Eowa.

[[Gong Li]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Chinese movie actors, Chinese television actors, Chinese stage actors, People who lost Chinese citizenship

Gong Li is a Chinese actress. She helped bring Chinese cinema to Europe and the United States.

She has several awards.  She received both the Golden Rooster and the Hundred Flowers Awards two times.  She also has the Berlinale Camera, Cannes Festival Trophy, National Board of Review, New York Film Critics Circle Award, and Volpi Cup.

Gong Li became a Goodwill Ambassador of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) on 16 October 2000.

[[St Paul's Girls' School]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 establishments in England, London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham, Schools in London

St Paul's Girls' School is a private secondary school for girls in Hammersmith, London. The headmistress is Clarissa Farr. It was started by the Worshipful Company of Mercers in 1904 as a female version of St Paul's School. It is one of a few schools in England that does not have a uniform, but there are strict rules about 'cleavages, thighs and midriffs'. The students are called Paulinas.

St Paul's is ranked the best secondary school in London. In 2012, 99.1% of A Level grades were A*-B. In 2013 100% of GCSE results were A*-B (as in the four previous years) and 91.2% were A*, the highest percentage ever at the school or in the country. Famous women who were pupils there include Carol Thatcher, Rachel Weisz, Dodie Smith, Jennifer Saunders, Kitty Godfree, and Onora Sylvia O'Neill, Baroness O'Neill of Bengarve. 100% of Paulinas go on to university and 45% go to Cambridge or Oxford.

[[New Apostolic Church]]

CATEGORIES: Protestantism

The New Apostolic Church (NAC) is a Christian denomination. It divided from the Catholic Apostolic Church by the 1863 Schism of Hamburg. The church has congregations in all around the world and about 10 million members worldwide. The international head quarter of the New Apostolic Church is located in Zurich (Switzerland).

Charity and the Second Coming of Christ are the main ideas of the New Apostolic Church. Most of its ideas are related to mainstream Christianity. It also has a liturgy similar to Protestantism and it is organized like the Roman Catholic Church.

The church calls itself the Early Church. Its spiritual leaders call themselves Apostles.

[[Unforgiven (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in professional wrestling, 2003 in American television, 2000s in Pennsylvania, Sports in Pennsylvania, WWE Unforgiven

Unforgiven (2003) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on September 21, 2003 at the Giant Center in Hershey, Pennsylvania. It was the sixth Unforgiven event held by the WWE.  

[[Coding theory]]

CATEGORIES: Theoretical computer science, Encodings

Coding theory is the study of properties of codes and how good they are for a use in the real world. Codes are used for data compression (where data is made smaller), cryptography (where data is changed into a form that not everyone can read), and error correction. Codes are studied by different scientific disciplines for designing data transmission methods that are efficient and reliable.

[[Wycombe Abbey]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Buckinghamshire, 1896 establishments in England

Wycombe Abbey is a private secondary boarding school for girls in High Wycombe, England. It has one of the best girls' boarding school exam results in the United Kingdom. 

37% of students go on to Oxford or Cambridge universities. It was started in 1896 by Dame Frances Gove. The headmistress is Rhiannon Wilkinson. It costs £11,100 per term for boarders. All girls year 79 have to learn Latin. It is a Church of England school with its own chapel.

[[Lollardy]]

CATEGORIES: 14th century in Europe, Christianity of the Middle Ages

Lollard or Lollardy was a religious movement that started in the Middle Ages. It began in the middle of the 14th century during the English Reformation. "Lollard" is a word used to refer to those who believed in John Wycliffe's ideas.,  He was a well-known  theologian who was expelled from the University of Oxford in 1381 because he criticized the Catholic Church. He mainly did this using his teaching about the Eucharist. The Lollards wanted to reform Western Christianity.

[[Holiness movement]]

CATEGORIES: Evangelicalism, Christian movements and denominational families

The holiness movement is about certain of beliefs and practices that came from Methodism in the 19th-century. It also refers to some groups of evangelical Christianity  who believe that these ideas are central doctrine. The movement is distinguished by its focus on John Wesley's teaching of "Christian perfection" . It says that it is possible to live free of sin, and specifically by the belief that this can be done instantly by preforming a second work of grace.

[[John Chrysostom]]

CATEGORIES: 347 births, 407 deaths, Archbishops, Christian saints, Christian theologians, Eastern Orthodox Christians, Syrian Christians

John Chrysostom (c. 347–407) was an Archbishop of Constantinople and an important Early Church Father. He is known for his powerful and persuasive words in preaching and public speaking. After his death in 407 C.E., he was given the Greek title "chrysostomos", meaning "golden mouthed" in English.

The Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches see him as a saint. He is also recognized by the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Catholic Church as a saint. Western Churches, including the Roman Catholic Church, some Anglican Churches, and parts of the Lutheran Church, celebrate him by making 13 September a holiday. They also celebrate an Eastern feast day of 27 January. The Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria also recognizes John Chrysostom as a saint.

John is known mainly as a preacher in Christianity, as well as a theologian and liturgist.

[[FAO Goodwill Ambassador]]

CATEGORIES: United Nations, 1999 establishments

The FAO Goodwill Ambassadors Programme started in 1999. The Food and Agriculture Organization is a part of the  United Nations.  The Ambassadors increase public awareness about hunger in the world. 

[[David di Donatello]]

CATEGORIES: Movie awards, Italian movies, 1955 establishments in Europe, 1950s establishments in Italy

The David di Donatello Award is a film award.  It is presented each year by L'accademia del Cinema Italiano (ACI). There are 24 categories as of 2006.

[[God's will]]

CATEGORIES: Theology

God's will, an idea in Abrahamic religions, is what God wants to happen. Christians, Jews and Muslims believe that they should do God's will. In the Bible, God's will is that all people will turn to him (repent) from their sins and live with him forever, in Heaven. Christians believe that in order to do this, they must accept Jesus, God's son, into their lives. Different Christians have different interpretations of what God's will is.

[[Rebel Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Australian comedians, Actors from Sydney, 1980 births, Living people

Rebel Melanie Elizabeth Wilson (born 2 March 1980) is an Australian Producer, Writer, Singer and Actress. Her many movies include Ghost Rider, Pitch Perfect and Bridesmaids. She played Kimberley Boubier in Super Fun Night. 

Rebel Wilson was born in Sydney, New South Wales. She lives in West Hollywood, California .

[[Marrella]]

CATEGORIES: Arthropods, Cambrian, Fossils

Marrella splendens is an arthropod known from the middle Cambrian Burgess Shale of British Columbia.  It is the most common animal in the Burgess Shale.

[[Lawrenceville School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in New Jersey, 1810 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in New Jersey

Lawrenceville School is a boarding prep school in the U.S. state of New Jersey. It was started in 1810 by Isaac Van Arsdale Brown, as the Maidenhead Academy. Until 1987 it did not let girls be students. Tuition for boarding students coses $53,320 plus a medical fee of $755, a technology fee of $465, and tuition refund insurance costing $453.

[[Stowe School]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 establishments in England, Schools in Buckinghamshire

Stowe School is a private school in Stowe, Buckinghamshire in England. Fifteen percent of its students come from other countries. Famous people who went there include Richard Branson, Roger Hodgson, and George Monbiot. It is also a boarding school. Boarders pay £10,325 each term. When three or more children from the same family are at Stowe at the same time, the first and second children pay 10% less and the third pays 5% less.

[[Middlesex University]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s establishments in England, Universities in London, Middlesex

Middlesex University is a university in North London, England. It started in 1973/74 as Middlesex Polytechnic. It became a university in 1992. 

Its main campus is in Hendon. This is in Greater London, and within the historic county boundary of Middlesex.

The university has overseas campuses in Dubai since 2004, Mauritius since 2009, and Malta since 2013.

[[Felsted School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, Essex

Felsted School is a boarding school in Felsted, England. It is for girls and boys aged 4 to 18. Ofsted rated it 'outstanding' in June 2011. In 2013, 97% of students got 5 A*-C grades in their GCSE examinations.

[[Pate's Grammar School]]

CATEGORIES: 1574 establishments, Gloucestershire, Grammar schools in England, 16th century establishments in England, 1570s establishments in Europe

Pate's Grammar School is a grammar school in Gloucestershire, England. It was started in 1574 by Richard Pate. In 1986 Pate's Grammar School for Girls and Cheltenham Grammar School for Boys were put together. In 2013 The Times called it the fourth best secondary state school in the UK.

[[Elizabeth Garrett Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 births, 1917 deaths, English physicians

Elizabeth Garrett Anderson (9 June 1836 – 17 December 1917) was an English medical doctor and sister of Millicent Fawcett. She is known for being the first woman to qualify as a doctor and surgeon in Britain and for starting a medical school for women. She was also the first female mayor in Britain. She had three children She taught herself french to go to the University of Paris.

[[Colchester Royal Grammar School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, Essex, 1206 establishments in Europe, 13th century establishments in England

Colchester Royal Grammar School (CRGS) is a grammar school in Colchester. It was started by Master John and Joseph Elianore in 1206. Since 2006 it has had the best A-level results in the country every year. 100% of students get 5 A*-C GCSEs including English and Maths.

[[Vocaloid]]

CATEGORIES: Music software

Vocaloid is a music software that's used to make vocals for music. It was created by Yamaha, a company that sells musical instruments, as well as other products. The user can type in lyrics and a melody and it will synthesize singing. Voicebanks for Vocaloid are made by recording samples of singers.

Vocaloid was developed partially through a research project led by Kenmochi Hideki. The people involved in this project later created the company Voctro Labs. Vocaloid was originally not supposed to be a commercial product, but with the help of Yamaha, became the program we know today.

Vocaloid originally only had an English version available, with two English voicebanks, Leon and Lola, being released for it. This changed later on with the release of Kaito and Meiko, which were both Japanese voicebanks.

Vocaloid is meant both for professional and amateur music makers, since Vocaloid is easy to use, so the only limit is the user's skill. Music groups like Livetune and Supercell have made music using Vocaloid voicebanks.

[[The Holt School]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s establishments in England, Berkshire, Schools in England

The Holt School is a secondary school for girls  in Wokingham, Berkshire, England. It has over 1200 girls from ages 11-18. Boys are admitted to the sixth form. The school was founded in the 1930s. It is a specialized language and science college. It is in the top 200 highest achieving schools in GCSE, AS and A level exam results.

Ofsted judged the school to be 'outstanding' and the sixth form to be 'good'. In 2013 88.3% of students got 5 A*-Cs in their GCSEs.

[[Ofsted]]

CATEGORIES: Education in England, 1992 establishments in England, London

The Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted) inspects all state schools in England. It writes reports about how good they are. It is funded by the government. It is organised under the Education (Schools) Act 1992. Michael Wilshaw is the head. It hires Additional Inspectors (AI) who do most of the inspections. It also hires Her Majesty's Inspectors (HMI) who come to 6-7% of inspections.

Ofsted's main office is on Kingsway, in central London.

[[King Edward VII School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, Sheffield, 1905 establishments in England

King Edward VII School is a secondary school and language college in Sheffield, England started in 1905. It has a sixth form. This means that students can study there until the age of 18. 50% of sixth form students come from other schools in Sheffield.  It is named after King Edward VII of the United Kingdom. In 2013 Ofsted said that the school 'requires improvement'.

[[Seiðr]]

CATEGORIES: Magic (paranormal), Germanic mythology, Witchcraft

Seid or Seiðr  is an Old Norse word for a kind of sorcery which was practised in Norse society. It is connected with Norse religion. No one knows where seid came from. It was practiced less with the spread of Christianity in Scandinavia. The practice was recorded in Norse stories (sagas) found by archeologists. Many scholars say that seid was like shamanism.

Both male and female Scandinavians practiced this form of magic. By doing so, they were often persecuted by society because they brought a taboo on themselves.

In pre-Christian Norse mythology, seid was associated with the god Odin, their god of war, poetry and sorcery. It was also associated with the goddess Freyja, who was their goddess of love and fertility.

Today, followers of modern paganism adopted forms of magic that they called seid. Their practices have since been studied by many researchers in the field of pagan studies.

[[Triglyceride]]

CATEGORIES: Lipids

A triglyceride /traiGLIseraid/ is a type of ester that comes from glycerol and three fatty acids. Triglycerides are a type of lipid found in the blood. They help enable the movement of adipose fat and glucose from the liver. Triglycerides are the main molecules that make up vegetable oil and animal fats. They are also a major component of oils found on human skin (sebum). Too much triglycerides has been linked to a number of cardiovascular diseases.

[[Goetia]]

CATEGORIES: Occult, Magic (paranormal), Demons

Goetia is a practice which involves invoking ("calling") angels and demons. The word came from the 17th-century grimoire The Lesser Key of Solomon. It describes the calling of seventy-two demons. The book was edited by Aleister Crowley in 1904. It was then called The Book of the Goetia of Solomon the King.

The word comes from the γοητεία goēteia, meaning "charm".

[[Tyler Breeze]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Canadian professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Vancouver, WWE wrestlers

Mattias Clement (born January 19, 1988 in Vancouver, British Columbia) better known by his ring name Tyler Breeze, is a Canadian professional wrestler currently signed to WWE where competes on the RAW brand with tag team partner Fandango.

[[Nucleoplasm]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology

Nucleoplasm is the contents of the cell nucleus. It is the protoplasm inside the nuclear membrane.

It includes 

The main role of the nucleoplasm is to keep the chromosomes  separate from the cell cytoplasm, and support the translating of DNA to RNA

[[Peada of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 650s deaths, Converts to Christianity, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Peada (died 656) was briefly the King of Mercia. From 653 he had been King of the Middle Angles. Peada was a pagan who accepted baptism in order to marry the daughter of Oswiu of Northumbria.

[[The Day Reagan Was Shot]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 movies, American television movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, Presidency of Ronald Reagan

The Day Reagan Was Shot is a 2001 historical television-movie. It was co-produced by Oliver Stone.

[[Unforgiven (2002)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 in professional wrestling, Sports in Los Angeles, WWE Unforgiven, 2002 in the United States, 2000s in Los Angeles, California

Unforgiven (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on September 22, 2002 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. It was the fifth Unforgiven event held by the WWE.  

[[Kenneth Welsh]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Actors from Alberta, American movie actors, American television actors, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Entertainers from Edmonton

Kenneth Welsh, CM (born March 30, 1942 in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada) is a Canadian-American movie and television actor (sometimes credited as Ken Welsh). He is known for his roles in Twin Peaks and in The Aviator. He also appeared in The Day Reagan Was Shot and in The Day After Tomorrow.

[[Edwin Meese]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, United States Attorneys General, American lawyers, American educators, Businesspeople from Oakland, California, Politicians from Oakland, California, US Republican Party politicians

Edwin "Ed" Meese, III (born December 2, 1931) is an American attorney, law professor, and author.

[[William J. Casey]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1987 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency, Spies, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from New York City, Members of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

William Joseph Casey (March 13, 1913 – May 6, 1987) was an American politician. He was the Director of Central Intelligence from 1981 to 1987 under Ronald Reagan. In this capacity he oversaw the entire United States Intelligence Community and personally directed the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).

Casey was born on March 13, 1913 in Elmhurst, Queens, New York. He studied at Fordham University and at Saint John's University, New York Casey died on May 6, 1987 from brain cancer in Roslyn Harbor, New York, aged 74.

[[Global city]]

CATEGORIES: Urban planning, Economic geography, Cities

Global city (or world city) is a city that is widely considered to be an important part of the world economy. Most studies recognise London and New York City as the two most important global cities.

[[Joel Murray]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Illinois

Joel Murray (born April 17, 1963 in Wilmette, Illinois) is an American actor. He starred many television shows including Grand, Love & War, and Dharma and Greg. He also performed in movies, including God Bless America, Monsters University and Killing Reagan. His brother is actor Bill Murray.

[[Unforgiven (2001)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 in professional wrestling, Sports in Pittsburgh, WWE Unforgiven, 2001 in American television, 2000s in Pennsylvania, 21st century in Pittsburgh

Unforgiven (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on September 23, 2001 at the Mellon Arena in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It was the fourth Unforgiven event held by the WWF.  

[[Brian Doyle-Murray]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Screenwriters from Illinois, Actors from Illinois, Comedians from Illinois, Writers from Illinois

Brian Doyle-Murray (born Brian Murray; October 31, 1945) is an American comedian, screenwriter, actor and voice actor.  He is the older brother of actor/comedian Bill Murray and the two have acted together in some movies. Murray appeared on Caddyshack, Scrooged, Ghostbusters II, The Razor's Edge and Groundhog Day.

[[Randy Newman]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, American movie score composers, American pianists, American singer-songwriters, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters, Emmy Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Jewish American musicians, Jewish atheists, Singers from Los Angeles, California, Singers from New Orleans, Louisiana, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana

Randall Stuart "Randy" Newman (born November 28, 1943) is an American singer-songwriter, arranger, composer, and pianist. Newman is known for his voice and for his composition works for the Disney Pictures/Pixar movies. He is of Jewish descent and a atheist.

[[Unforgiven (2000)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in professional wrestling, Sports in Philadelphia, WWE Unforgiven, 2000 in the United States, 20th century in Pennsylvania, 2000s in Philadelphia

Unforgiven (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on September 24, 2000 at the First Union Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was the third Unforgiven event held by the WWF.  

[[Hundred Flowers Awards]]

CATEGORIES: Movie awards, Chinese movies, 1962 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in China

The People's Hundred Flower Award (大众电影百花奖) or Hundred Flowers Awards are movie awards in China.  They are like the Golden Globe Award.  

The awards were given in 1962 and 1963.  They stopped until 1980. Then the awards were given every year from 1980 to 2004.  Since 2004 the Hundred Flowers is awarded on even years.  The Golden Rooster Awards are given on odd years.

Beginning in 2006, Chinese-language films from Taiwan and Hong Kong are also allowed to win the awards.

[[Francisco Martínez Soria]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1982 deaths, Spanish actors

Francisco "Paco" Martínez Soria was a Spanish actor.

During the Spanish Civil War he left his work to be in theatre as an amateur actor.  He was part of the theatre company of Rafael López Somoza.  After 2 years he formed his own theatre company.  He also worked with director Ignacio F. Iquino in 12 films.

[[Unforgiven (1999)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 in professional wrestling, Sports in Charlotte, North Carolina, WWE Unforgiven

Unforgiven (1999) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on September 26, 1999 at the Charlotte Coliseum in Charlotte, North Carolina. It was the second Unforgiven event held by the WWF.  

[[Jean Gabin]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 births, 1976 deaths, French actors

Jean Gabin was a French actor.  He also sometimes was a singer. Gabin is considered one of the great stars of French cinema.  He was made a member of the Légion d'honneur. A museum in Mériel contains his story and features, his war and film memorabilia.

At the age of 19, Gabin received a small role in a Folies Bergère production. He continued acting until he joined the military.  After his military service he began acting again.  He became part of a troupe that toured South America.  After returning to France they worked at the Moulin Rouge.

Gabin gained notice and received roles in films.  He became popular after being in films directed by Julien Duvivier.  He had many offers to work in Hollywood. When Germany occupied France in World War II, he went to the United States.  While there he had a romance with actress Marlene Dietrich.  He was difficult to work with and did not have success with his career in Hollywood.

Jean Gabin joined General Charles de Gaulle's Free French Forces.  He earned the Médaille militaire and a Croix de guerre for his wartime service in North Africa. 

After the war Gabin returned to acting. For several years his films did not make much money. Then the 1954 film Touchez pas au grisbi (Don't Touch the Loot) was a very profitable international success. Over the next twenty years, Gabin made close to 50 more films.

[[Division of Scullin]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, 1968 establishments in Australia

The Division of Scullin is an Australian Electoral Division in the state of Victoria. It includes the northern suburbs of Epping, Lalor, Bundoora, Mill Park and Plenty.

The Division replaced the Division of Darebin in 1968. It was named after Rt Hon James Scullin, Prime Minister of Australia from 1929 to 1932.  

[[Division of Menzies]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, Victoria, Australia, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Menzies is an Australian Electoral Division in the state of Victoria. It is covers the suburbs of Bulleen, Croydon Hills, Doncaster, Doncaster East, Donvale, Park Orchards, Templestowe, Templestowe Lower, Warrandyte and Warrandyte South. There are also parts of Ringwood North, Warranwood and Wonga Park in the Division.

The Division was set up in 1984. It was named after Rt Hon Sir Robert Menzies, the longest serving Prime Minister of Australia. 

[[Brearley School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in New York, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, 1884 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in New York (state)

The Brearley School is an all-girls private school in New York City. It was started by Samuel A. Brearley in 1884. It costs $39,900 a term. Famous women who went there include Dorothy Schiff, Erica Wagner, Sara Moulton, and Virginia Gildersleeve.

[[Highclare School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, Birmingham, 1932 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1930s establishments in England

Highclare School is a private school in Birmingham, England. It teaches mostly girls and some boys aged 18 months to 18 years. It was started in 1932. It has three buildings in different areas of Sutton Coldfield and Erdington. They have a 100% pass rate at GCSE.

[[Naropa University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Colorado, 1974 establishments in the United States, 1970s establishments in Colorado

Naropa University is a private liberal arts college in Colorado. It was started in 1974 by Chögyam Trungpa. It is named after Naropa, a Buddhist Mahasiddha who lived in the eleventh century. It has three campuses: Araphoe, Paramita, and Nalanda.

[[City of London School for Girls]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in London, 1894 establishments in the United Kingdom

City of London School for Girls (CLSG) is a private school for girls aged 7-18 in London, England. It was started by William Ward in 1894.

It is associated with the City of London School (a boys day school) and the City of London Freemen's School (a boys and girls day and boarding school).

97% of A Level results are A*-B grades. Over 50% study Maths at A Level. 30% get into Oxford or Cambridge. Famous women who went there include Dido, Tasmin Lucia-Khan, Hermione Lee, and Romola Garai. Charlotte Barbour-Condini is currently a student, who was a finalist for BBC, Young Musician of the Year, on 2012.

[[C. W. Alcock]]

CATEGORIES: 1842 births, 1907 deaths, People from Sunderland, Association football, English footballers, English cricketers

Charles William Alcock (2 December 1842 – 26 February 1907) was an English sportsperson. He was important in the development of both international football and cricket. He was also the creator of the FA Cup. He went to Harrow School. He married Eliza Caroline and they had two sons and six daughters.

[[Brighton College]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, Brighton, 1845 establishments in Europe, 1840s establishments in England

Brighton College is a boarding school in Brighton, England. It is for boys and girls aged between 3 and 18. Richard Cairns is headmaster. It was started by William Aldwin Soames in 1845. It is a charity school.

[[Women in Ancient Greece]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greece, Women

The status of women in Classical Greece was different in different city states. Women in ancient Delphi, Gortyn, Thessaly, Megara and Sparta could own land, which was the most prestigious form of private property at the time.

[[Rabbit-Proof Fence (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: Australian drama movies, 2002 drama movies, Movies set in the 1930s, Movies set in Australia, Movies set in deserts, Movies directed by Phillip Noyce

Rabbit-Proof Fence is an Australian drama movie. It was directed by Phillip Noyce in 2002 for 6 million US dollars.

[[Marlborough College]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, Wiltshire, 1843 establishments in Europe, 1840s establishments in England

Marlborough College is a secondary boarding school in Marlborough, Wiltshire, England. It was started in 1843 for sons of the leaders of the Church of England. It now accepts boys and girls of all religious beliefs, but is classed as a Church of England school. It has a chapel where there is Eucharist every Sunday. It is a member of the G20 Schools Group. It costs £32,280 a year.

[[Lancing College]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, West Sussex

Lancing College is a private boarding school in Lancing, England for girls and boys aged 13 to 18. Important people who went there include Charles Wollaston, Sir Roy Calne, and Alex Horne. It costs £31,240 a year for boarders.

[[Institut Le Rosey]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Switzerland, 1880 establishments in Europe

Institut Le Rosey, commonly known simply as Le Rosey, is a boarding school in Rolle, Switzerland. It has ~400 students aged 7 to 18. 

It was started by Paul-Émile Carnal in 1880 and is Switzerland's oldest private school. Royalty from around the world have been students. No more than 10% of the students come from any one country. Students applying to be seniors must be able to work in English and French. Fees: ~ $136,000 per annum.

This is a school for the rich international set. Before the introduction of the 10% quota (where no more than 10% of the student body may come from one country) different nationalities made up the majority of students at Le Rosey. 

In the 1950s and 1960s, most students were Americans, Italians, and Greeks. In the 1970s came the Arabs and Iranians. In the 1980s came Japanese and Koreans, and in the 1990s came the Russians. During the 1990s, came the children of Russian oligarchs, who made up a third of the student body. They "terrorized" other students, which resulted in the withdrawal of at least one non-Russian student.

Since then, quotas have been applied.

[[Gstaad International School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Switzerland, 1962 establishments in Europe, 20th century establishments in Switzerland

Gstaad International School is a private preparatory boarding school in Switzerland. It was started in 1962.

[[Collège Alpin International Beau Soleil]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Switzerland, 1910 establishments in Europe

Collège Alpin International Beau Soleil is a private school in Switzerland. It started in 1910. It is located in Villars-sur-Ollon, in Vaud. It is the second most expensive school in the world. It costs CHF 93,000 a year to be a student.

[[Trinity-Pawling School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in New York, 1907 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in New York (state)

Trinity-Pawling School is an all-boys private boarding high school. It is in Pawling, New York. Trinity-Pawling was started in 1907, by Frederick Luther Gamage. The cost to attend is $51,000 a year.

[[Groton School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Massachusetts, 1884 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Massachusetts

Groton School is a preparatory boarding school in Massachusetts. It was started in 1884 by the Rev. Endicott Peabody. It gives free education to students with household incomes below $75,000 a year. It has a chapel, St. John's Chapel. It has 270 students. Boarders pay $53,870 a year.

[[Forman School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Connecticut, 1930 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Connecticut

Forman School is a boarding school in Connecticut for students with learning disabilities. It was founded in 1930 by John and Julie Ripley Forman.

[[Wellington College]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Berkshire, 1859 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1850s establishments in England

Wellington College is a secondary boarding school in Berkshire, South East England for girls and boys. It was started by Queen Victoria in 1859. It is a member of the Rugby Group and the G20 Schools group. 

In 2006 it became the first school to have happiness lessons. The headmaster is James Dahl. 10% of students get into Cambridge or Oxford University.

[[C-SPAN]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 establishments in the United States, American television channels, Cable television

C-SPAN (ˈ; an acronym for Cable-Satellite Public Affairs Network) is a private, not-for-profit cable television network in the United States. It was created in 1979 by the cable television industry as a public service. It televises many proceedings of the U.S. federal government, as well as other programs related to public affairs.

[[Bahá'í calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars, Bahá'í Faith, Babism

The Bahá'í calendar, named the Badí‘ calendar (badí‘ means wondrous or unique), is a solar calendar used by Bábism and the Bahá'í Faith. 

The calendar was created by the Báb and refined by Bahá'u'lláh and the Universal House of Justice. 

Each year starts on "Naw-Rúz", the vernal equinox (in March), and has 19 months. Each month has 19 days. An extra 4 or 5 days are added between the last two months so that the next year also starts on the equinox. Each day begins at sunset. The time of sunset and the time of the equinox are calculated by astronomers. 

The months are known by their Arabic names. The days within each month also use the same names. Here they are with their usual English translations:

Each group of 19 years is called a Váhid. 

Each group of 19 Váhids is called a Kull-i-Shay’.

Year 1 of the Badí' calendar started at Naw-Rúz in 1844 A.D.

[[Gertrude B. Elion]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 1999 deaths, American biochemists, Pharmacologists, Female scientists, Scientists from New York City, American Nobel Prize winners

Gertrude Belle Elion (January 23, 1918 – February 21, 1999) was an American biochemist and pharmacologist. In 1988, she received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine along with Sir James Black, a British coworker.

[[Haldan Keffer Hartline]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1983 deaths, Physiologists, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine winners, American Nobel Prize winners, Scientists from Pennsylvania

Haldan Keffer Hartline ForMemRS (December 22, 1903 – March 17, 1983) was an American physiologist. He was a co-winner (with George Wald and Ragnar Granit) of the 1967 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work in analyzing the neurophysiological mechanisms of vision.

[[Stephanie Adams]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from New York, 1970 births, 2018 deaths, Suicides by jumping in the United States, Writers from New Jersey, Models from New Jersey, People from Orange, New Jersey

Stephanie Adams (July 24, 1970 – May 18, 2018) was an American author. She was a model and was Playboy Playmate for November 1992. Orange, New Jersey was her birth place but Adams grew up in New York. She was raised by two of her aunts Joyce and Pearl, former models who encouraged Adams to do modeling when she was 16.

Adams committed suicide with her 7 year-old son by jumping off a balcony in New York City on May 18, 2018 at the age of 47.

[[Non-coding RNA]]

CATEGORIES: RNA

A non-coding RNA (ncRNA) is a functional RNA molecule which is not translated into a protein. Less-used synonyms are non-protein-coding RNA (npcRNA), non-messenger RNA (nmRNA) and functional RNA (fRNA). The term small RNA (sRNA) is often used for short bacterial ncRNAs. The DNA sequence from which a non-coding RNA is transcribed is often called an 'RNA gene'.

Non-coding RNA genes include abundant and important RNAs such as transfer RNA (tRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA); also RNAs such as snoRNAs, microRNAs, siRNAs, snRNAs, exRNAs, and piRNAs and the long noncoding RNAs (long ncRNAs). The number of ncRNAs in the human genome is unknown. However recent studies suggest the existence of thousands of ncRNAs., but see  Since the function of newly identified ncRNAs has not been proved, it is possible that many are non-functional.

The first non-coding RNA to be analysed was an alanine tRNA found in baker's yeast. Its structure was published in 1965.

[[City Montessori School]]

CATEGORIES: Uttar Pradesh, Schools in India, 1959 establishments in Asia, 1950s establishments in India

City Montessori School is a private school in Lucknow, India. It was started in 1959 by Bharti Gandhi and Jagdish Gandhi. It had five pupils. It now has the most students of any school in the world. It has twenty campuses.

[[WrestleMania X8]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 in professional wrestling, Sport in Toronto, WrestleMania, 2000s in Canada, 21st century in Toronto

WrestleMania X8 was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on March 17, 2002 at the SkyDome in Toronto, Ontario. It was the eighteenth WrestleMania event held by the WWF and was the second WrestleMania to take place in Toronto with the first being WrestleMania VI in 1990. This was the final WrestleMania under WWF name.

[[Handicap principle]]

CATEGORIES: Animal communication, Evolution

The handicap principle was invented by Prof. Amotz Zahavi from Tel Aviv University. It claims to explain the fact that some animals have characteristics that do not necessarily help them survive. Let's take the peacock for example. The peacock's tail is long and heavy and actually diminishes its chances to survive. So why did it evolutionarily survive? According to the principle, one day, a mutant peahen that likes peacocks with longer tail, looked for a male with this characteristic. The mature male she found was strong enough to survive even though it had a long tail and therefore it is probably stronger than the average peacock. Therefore, its predecessor males are going to be stronger and also to have a long tail while the newborn females are going to like long tails, passing the ideals of the principle to the next generations.

This principle comes in addition to the well-known adaptation part of evolution theory claiming that the one who fits best to its environment survives.

[[Flame-throated bulbul]]

CATEGORIES: Birds of India, Passeri

The flame-throated bulbul (Rubigula gularis) is a bird found in south western India. It eats fruit and insects, and lives in thick bushes and trees. It is a part of the bulbul family of birds and is yellow with a black head and red neck.

[[Bulbul]]

CATEGORIES: Passeri

[[Wolseley Expedition]]

CATEGORIES: 1870, History of Canada

The Wolseley Expedition was a military force put together to capture the Canadian Métis leader Louis Riel. It was led by Colonel Garnet Wolsely. The expedition took place in 1870 and went from Toronto to Winnipeg. Because of the fact that the expedition had to carry so much equipment and guns, the Wolsely Expedition is thought to be one of the most difficult in all of recent history.

[[Bert Diaries]]

CATEGORIES: Children's literature

The Bert Diaries are a series of novels written in the form of a diary. They are by Swedish writers Anders Jacobsson and Sören Olsson. The main character is a teenager named Bert Ljung. Ljung lives in Öreskoga, a fictional town in Sweden, in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The first book was published in 1987. Bert and his friends also have a pop/rock band, the Heman Hunters.

A TV series was made in 1994. It is directed by Tomas Alfredson and Svante Kettner. It was followed by a movie in 1995, also directed by Alfredson. In late-July 2016 the recording of a new Bert film was announced.

Between 1993 and 2002, and comic book, FF med Bert, was published Between 1992 and 1999, comic albums were published.

[[Sune (book series)]]

CATEGORIES: Children's literature

The Sune series is a series of children's/youth books by Swedish writers Anders Jacobsson and Sören Olsson. The books have been published since 1984. The stories are originally a radio series, produced as totally 90 episodes for Swedish radio between the years of 1983 and 1993. The Sune books are set in fictional town of Glimmerdagg in Sweden, which just like Berts hometown Öreskoga is located somewhere between Karlskoga-Örebro. There is Söderskolan, for the grades 1–6. The Sune books are told in the third person perspective and using the present tense and uses imperfect during flashback scenes, while Bert is told as a first person narrative.

Instead of being a typical "tough guy" who uses to fight or play soccer, Sune is more interested into girls.

[[The Kane Chronicles]]

CATEGORIES: Rick Riordan, Series of books, Fantasy books

The Kane Chronicles are a series of fantasy novels by Rick Riordan. The characters are based on Egyptian mythology. The story is set in the same universe as Riordan's Percy Jackson & the Olympians, The Heroes of Olympus, The Trials of Apollo, and Magnus Chase and the Gods of Asgard series.

[[Jean Marais]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1998 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in France, French LGBT people, French movie actors, French television actors, LGBT actors

Jean-Alfred Villain-Marais was a French actor and director. Marais had over 100 roles in film and on television. He was also known for writing, painting and sculpture.

In the 1950s, Marais became a star of swashbuckling films. He performed his own stunts.  After 1970 he mostly worked in plays.

[[Backlash (2008)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in professional wrestling, Sports in Baltimore, Maryland, WWE Backlash, 2008 in the United States, 2000s in Baltimore, Maryland

Backlash (2008) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on April 27, 2008 at the 1st Mariner Arena in Baltimore, Maryland. It was the tenth Backlash event held by the WWE.

[[Jean-Paul Belmondo]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2021 deaths, Actors from Ile-de-France, French movie actors, French stage actors, French television actors, French voice actors

Jean-Paul Belmondo (9 April 1933 – 6 September 2021) was a French actor. He was popular during the New Wave of the 1960s.

[[Kana Hanazawa]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Tokyo, 1989 births, Japanese voice actors, Japanese singers

Kana Hanazawa is a voice actress of anime characters. She is also an actress and a singer. She works for the Office Osawa talent agency. In Japan, she is known for voicing many anime characters.

Hoshizora☆Destination, was released in 25 April 2012. It was her first single.

[[GD 61]]

CATEGORIES: Stars

GD 61 is a white dwarf star. It is 150 light-years from Earth in the constellation Perseus.

An asteroid in the system was detected in 2013 that contains water. This was the first finding of solid or liquid water on an extrasolar body. The asteroid, the first extrasolar asteroid detected, is 26% water by mass, close to the water content of Ceres. This means that a planet, with a rocky surface similar to Earth's, may have existed in the past. The asteroid could be an artifact from this period. It is now possibly part of a debris field from that planet's breakup. Such a planet would have had both a rocky surface and water. These are two key ingredients for life. The researchers used the Cosmic Origins Spectrograph on the Hubble Space Telescope to determine what it is made of. The elements magnesium, silicon, iron and oxygen were detected. These are all components of rocky planets. However, the amount of oxygen is much higher than what was expected. There was also less carbon than expected. This meant there was one possible reason for the extra oxygen. There had to be water there.

[[Pilgrim of Eternity]]

CATEGORIES: Star Trek, 2013 in entertainment

"Pilgrim of Eternity" is an episode of Star Trek that was created by fans. It was released in 2013. It is the first in a planned web series, Star Trek Continues. It is a sequel to the original series episode, "Who Mourns for Adonais?".

[[Cat Power]]

CATEGORIES: American singer-songwriters, 1972 births, Living people, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia

Charlyn Marie Marshall (better known by her stage identity Cat Power; 21 January, 1972) is an American singer-songwriter and musician. She has been releasing albums since 1992. Her cover of "Sea of Love" is played in the 2007 movie Juno.

Her album Sun, released in 2012, is her best and highest-charting record as of 2013. 

She was born in Atlanta, and has lived in several other states.

[[Alternator]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Machines

An alternator is a generator which converts mechanical energy to electrical energy in the form of alternating current. There is one in every car.

Most alternators use a rotating magnetic field with a stationary armature. The armature reacts to the rotating field and carries the current caused by the rotation. 

In principle, any AC electrical generator can be called an alternator, but usually the term refers to small rotating machines driven by automotive and other internal combustion engines. 

An alternator that uses a permanent magnet for its magnetic field is called a magneto. Alternators in power stations driven by steam turbines are called turbo-alternators.

[[Capacitance]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Capacitance is the ability of a body to store electric charge.  A common device to do such task is a capacitor. The SI unit for capacitance is farad.

Where Q is the charge in the object and V is voltage across that object.

[[Division of Cook]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1969 establishments in Australia

The Division of Cook is an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1969 and is named for James Cook, who mapped the east coast of Australia in 1770. It is located in the southern suburbs of Sydney, including Caringbah, Cronulla, Miranda and Sylvania. 

[[Nieuport 11]]

CATEGORIES: French military aircraft, World War I aircraft

The Nieuport 11 is a French single-engine biplane fighter aircraft used during World War I that allowed France to defeat the German Fokker Eindeckers. 

It sometimes called "Bébé" (the French word for baby) due to its small size.

A more powerful version, the Nieuport 16 was also built, leading to a series of fighters that served into the 1920s.

[[Columbia Business School]]

CATEGORIES: Ivy League, Schools in New York, 1916 establishments in the United States, Buildings and structures in Manhattan, 1910s establishments in New York (state)

Columbia Business School (CBS) is a business school of Columbia University in Manhattan, New York City. It was established in 1916. Its purpose is to provide training and professional preparation for undergraduate and graduate Columbia University students. It is one of six Ivy League business schools. Its admission process is among the most selective of top schools.

[[Backlash (2007)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in professional wrestling, Sports in Atlanta, Georgia, WWE Backlash, 2000s in Atlanta, Georgia, 2007 in Georgia (U.S. state)

Backlash (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on April 29, 2007 at the Philips Arena in Atlanta, Georgia. It was the ninth Backlash event held by the WWE.

[[University of Nebraska–Lincoln]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska, 1869 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Nebraska

The University of Nebraska–Lincoln (also called Nebraska, UNL or NU) it is a public university that also does research. It is located in Lincoln, Nebraska, USA. UNL is the state's oldest and largest university campus. It is also the leading school in the University of Nebraska system.

[[Nilo-Saharan languages]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Africa

The Nilo-Saharan languages are a family of African languages. They are spoken by around 50 million people, who mainly live in the upper parts of the Chari and Nile rivers. The languages go through 17 countries in the northern half of Africa: from Algeria to Benin in the west; from Libya to the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the center; and from Egypt to Tanzania in the east.

[[Herman Kahn]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1983 deaths, American atheists, American Jews, American mathematicians, People from Bayonne, New Jersey

Herman Kahn (February 15, 1922 – July 7, 1983) was one of the preeminent futurists of the second half of the twentieth century. His theories helped to develop the nuclear strategy of the United States.

[[Backlash (2002)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 in professional wrestling, Sports in Kansas City, Missouri, WWE Backlash, 2002 in the United States, 2000s in Missouri, History of Kansas City, Missouri

Backlash (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on April 21, 2002 at the Kemper Arena in Kansas City, Missouri. It was the fourth Backlash event held by the WWF.

This was the first time a WWF pay-per-view was held at Kemper Arena since WWF Over The Edge 1999 where Owen Hart, competing as the Blue Blazer at the time, lost his life after he fell 78 feet from a harness to the ring during an entrance stunt and landed chest-first on the top rope, approximately a foot from the nearest turnbuckle.

[[Tami Erin]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Illinois, American movie actors, 1974 births, Living people

Tamara Erin Klicman (or Tami Erin; July 8, 1974) is an American actress. She played the character of Pippi Longstocking in the 1988 movie The New Adventures of Pippi Longstocking. She was born in the Chicago metropolitan area.

[[Anna Favella]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Actors from Rome

Anna Favella (September 21, 1983) is an Italian actress. She works in television and movies. She is known for roles in the TV series Terra ribelle and in the movie Mr. America.

[[Backlash (2001)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 in professional wrestling, WWE Backlash, 2001 in American television, 2000s in Illinois

Backlash (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on April 29, 2001 at the Allstate Arena in Rosemont, Illinois. It was the third Backlash event held by the WWF.

[[Pekwachnamaykoskwaskwaypinwanik Lake]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Canada, Manitoba

Pekwachnamaykoskwaskwaypinwanik Lake is a fresh water lake in Manitoba, Canada. It is Cree for "where the wild trout are caught by fishing with hooks." It is the longest place name in Canada. It is located near Red Sucker Lake in northeastern Manitoba.

[[Wimbledon High School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in London, 1880 establishments in the United Kingdom

Wimbledon High School is a private school for girls aged 4-18 in Wimbledon in South West London. It was started in 1880 by The Girls' Day School Trust.

[[Division of Cunningham]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Cunningham is an Australian electoral division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1949 and is named for Allan Cunningham, a 19th century explorer of New South Wales and Queensland.

It is on the coast of New South Wales and includes parts of the city of Wollongong, Corrimal, Figtree and Unanderra. It also includes several suburbs of Sydney, including Heathcote and Bundeena. 

[[Maltby Academy]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, 1931 establishments, South Yorkshire, 1930s establishments in England

Maltby Academy is a secondary school in Maltby, England. It started as Maltby Grammar School in 1931. In 1967 it became Maltby Comprehensive School. In 2010 it became an academy and changed its name to reflect this.

[[Yarm School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, 1590 establishments, North Yorkshire, 1590s establishments in England

Yarm School is a private school in Yarm, England for girls and boys 3-18. It started as Yarm Grammar School in 1590.

[[Backlash (2000)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in professional wrestling, Washington, D.C., WWE Backlash, 2000 in the United States, 20th century in Washington, D.C.

Backlash (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on April 30, 2000 at the MCI Center in Washington, D.C.. It was the second Backlash event held by the WWF.

[[Aircraft Apprentice Scheme]]

CATEGORIES: Royal Air Force, 1920 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1966 disestablishments, 1960s disestablishments in the United Kingdom

The Aircraft Apprentice Scheme was a training programme in the Royal Air Force. It lasted from 1920 to 1966. The training programme was for aircraft ground crew (those who servicing the aircraft on the ground, as opposed to the pilots).

The Apprentice Scheme was the result of the Royal Air Force's decision to open Schools of Technical Training. RAF Halton was chosen as the home for the training of men and boys. The School of Technical Training (for boys) was not formed as a separate unit until 1919 and only became a permanent establishment on 1 January 1920. In March of that year, RAF Halton was named No. 1 School of Technical Training. No. 2 School of Technical Training at RAF Cranwell was created because there was not enough accommodation to house the boys at RAF Halton.

[[2 Chainz]]

CATEGORIES: American rap musicians from Georgia, Musicians from Georgia (U.S. state), 1977 births, Living people, Gangsta rappers, African-American rappers

Tauheed Epps (born September 12, 1977), known professionally as 2 Chainz (formerly Tity Boi), is an American rapper. He was born in College Park, Georgia. He is best known for his singles "Riot", "No Lie" (featuring Drake), "I'm Different" and "Birthday Song". He is also known for being half the duo of the rap group Playaz Circle along with rapper and long time friend Dolla Boy. The group was discovered by fellow rapper Ludacris and signed them to his Record Label DTP. 2 Chainz gained recognition as a solo artist when he was featured on Kanye West's 2012 single "Mercy" off his album Cruel Summer. He has 2 albums: Based On A True Story  and his most recent one B.O.A.T.S: Me Time.

[[Division of Dobell]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Dobell is an Australian electoral Division in New South Wales.  It was set up in 1984 and is named for the Australian painter, Sir William Dobell. It is on the Central Coast and includes Bateau Bay, Berkeley Vale, Blue Haven, The Entrance, Gorokan, Jilliby, Ourimbah, Toukley, Tuggerah, Tumbi Umbi, Wamberal, Wyoming.

[[Nick Cardy]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American comics writers, American comics artists, Writers from New York City

Nicholas Viscardi (October 20, 1920 – November 3, 2013), known professionally as Nick Cardy or Nick Cardi, was American comic book artist. He is best known for his DC Comics work on Aquaman, the Teen Titans and other major characters. Cardy was inducted into the Will Eisner Comic Book Hall of Fame in 2005.

Cardy was born on October 20, 1920 in New York City, New York. He studied at the Art Students League of New York, studying life drawing. Cardy was married to Ruth Houghby from 1947 until they divorced in 1969. They had one son. Cardy died on November 3, 2013 from heart failure at his Miami, Florida home, aged 93.

[[Hal Needham]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, Stuntmen, Writers from Tennessee, Actors from Memphis, Tennessee, People from Little Rock, Arkansas, Actors from Arkansas, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri, Movie directors from Missouri

Hal Brett Needham (March 6, 1931 – October 25, 2013) was an American stuntman, movie director, actor, and writer. He is known for directing the 1971 comedy movie Smokey and the Bandit and The Cannonball Run. Needham received the Taurus World Stunt Awards Lifetime Achievement Award. 

Needham was born on March 6, 1931 in Memphis, Tennessee. He was raised in Little Rock, Arkansas and in St. Louis, Missouri. 

Needham was married to Dani Crayne from 1981 until they divorced in 1996. Then he was married to Ellyn Wynne Williams from 1996 until his death in 2013. Needham died on October 25, 2013 from cancer in Los Angeles, California, aged 82.

[[Juan Carlos Calabró]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from kidney disease, Argentine movie actors, Argentine television actors, Comedians, Actors from Buenos Aires

Juan Carlos Calabró (3 February 1934 – 5 November 2013) was an Argentine actor and comedian. He was known for his work Johnny Tolengo, el majestuoso.

Calabró was born on 3 February 1934 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Calabró died on 5 November 2013 in Buenos Aires, Argentina from kidney disease, aged 79.

[[Mr. Morgan's Last Love]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 comedy-drama movies, German drama movies, Belgian movies, American comedy-drama movies, French comedy movies, French drama movies

Mr. Morgan's Last Love is an 2013 comedy-drama movie based on Francoise Dorner's French novel La Douceur Assassine. It is written and directed by Sandra Nettelbeck. It stars Michael Caine and Clémence Poésy. It was released to negative reviews on November 1, 2013.

[[Life of Pi (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 drama movies, 2010s adventure movies, American adventure movies, American drama movies, British adventure movies, British drama movies, Taiwanese movies, Canadian drama movies, Mexican movies, French drama movies, Indian movies, English-language movies, Survival movies, Movies directed by Ang Lee

Life of Pi is a 2012 American drama movie produced and directed by Ang Lee. It stars Suraj Sharma. It was released to very positive reviews on November 21, 2012. It was nominated for three Golden Globe Awards, including Best Picture - Drama and Best Director, and won for Best Original Score. At the 85th Academy Awards, it had 11 nominations, including Best Picture and Best Adapted Screenplay, and won four (the most of the night), including Best Director for Ang Lee.

[[Judgment Day (2008)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in professional wrestling, Omaha, Nebraska, WWE Judgment Day, 2008 in American television, 21st century in Nebraska

Judgment Day (2008) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 18, 2008 at the Qwest Center in Omaha, Nebraska. It was the tenth Judgment Day event held by the WWE.

[[Division of Eden-Monaro]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1901 establishments in Australia

The Division of Eden-Monaro is an Australian electoral division in New South Wales. It was one of the 75 divisions set up for the first federal election in 1901. It is named for the town of Eden and the Monaro district of southern New South Wales. It includes Batemans Bay, Bega, Cooma and Queanbeyan. 

Since 1972 the Division has always been won the party that wins government in the elections. It is closely watched by the media when trying to pick the results of an election.

[[Graham Stark]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Cheshire, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from stroke, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English radio actors, Writers from Cheshire

Graham William Stark (20 January 1922 – 29 October 2013) was an English comedian, actor, writer and director. He was known for his roles in Alfie and in Superman III. 

Stark was born on 20 January 1922 in Wallasey, Cheshire, England. He studied at Wallasey Grammar School. Stark began acting when he was 13 years old. 

Stark was also an accomplished stills photographer. Stark died in London on 29 October 2013 after suffering a stroke. He was 91.

[[Hans von Borsody]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Austrian movie actors, Austrian television actors, Austrian stage actors, German movie actors, German television actors, German stage actors, Actors from Vienna

Hans von Borsody (20 September 1929 – 4 November 2013) was a German-Austrian actor. 

He was born in Vienna as a member of an artists family. His father Eduard von Borsody was a movie director, his uncle Julius von Borsody a set designer. His daughter Suzanne von Borsody is also an actress.

von Borsody died on 4 November 2013 in Berlin, Germany from lung cancer, aged 84.

[[Division of Farrer]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Farrer is an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1949 and is named for William Farrer, an agricultural scientist. It is in the southern rural area of the state and includes Albury, Balranald, Broken Hill, Deniliquin and Jerilderie.

[[Jorge Ramos]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Television news anchors, Mexican journalists, Writers from Mexico City, Emmy Award winners

Jorge Ramos Ávalos (born March 16, 1958) is a Mexican journalist for Univision. He is the anchor for Noticiero Univision and host of the Sunday morning news talk show Al Punto. Also, on Fusion TV, he hosts America with Jorge Ramos, which debuted on October 29, 2013.

Ramos was born on March 16, 1958 in Mexico City, Mexico. He studied at Universidad Iberoamericana. Ramos has won eight Emmy Awards throughout his career for journalism.

[[Judgment Day (2007)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in professional wrestling, Sports in St. Louis, Missouri, WWE Judgment Day, 2007 in the United States, 2000s in Missouri, History of St. Louis, Missouri

Judgment Day (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 20, 2007 at the Scottrade Center in St. Louis, Missouri. It was the ninth Judgment Day event held by the WWE.

[[Christian (given name)]]

CATEGORIES: Given names

Christian is a given name. Both men and women can be named "Christian". The name comes from the Latin word Christianus, meaning "follower of Christ". It has been commonly used as a name since the Middle Ages - especially amongst females.

The name is popular in Europe, United States and other English-speaking countries. In Europe — though not the United States — it is almost exclusively used as a male name. However, in the 17th and 18th centuries it was a popular female first name in Scotland.February 2011

Female variants of the name include Christine, Christina, Christiane, Kristen, Kristin, and Kirsten.  Holders of the name Christian may go by the nicknames or shortened forms Chris, Chrissy, Crix or Xian.

[[Enhanced geothermal system]]

CATEGORIES: Geothermal energy, Power plants

An enhanced geothermal system (EGS) is a geothermal energy system that can make electrical energy when natural underground water is not there. For a long time, geothermal energy could only be produced when there were hot rocks, underground water, and cracks in rocks all together in one area. Now, new ways of getting this power source are being created. Areas that can possibly be used for energy need to be altered by people to make the energy usable. These areas may need either underground water and/or cracks, or fracture network, in rocks. Enhanced geothermal systems allow for geothermal energy to be outside normal geothermal areas like active plate boundaries to less active areas like the western United States.

[[Division of Fowler]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Fowler is an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1984 and named after Lilian Fowler, the first woman mayor in Australia. It includes the suburbs of Ashcroft, Austral, Bonnyrigg, Bonnyrigg Heights, Busby, Cabramatta, Cabramatta West, Canley Heights, Canley Vale, Cartwright, Cecil Hills, Cecil Park, Edensor Park, Green Valley, Greenfield Park, Heckenberg, Hinchinbrook, Lansvale, Liverpool, Middleton Grange, Miller, Mount Pritchard, Prairiewood, Sadleir, St Johns Park, Wakeley and West Hoxton.

[[The Latymer School]]

CATEGORIES: 1624 establishments, Grammar schools in England, Schools in London, 17th century establishments in England, 1620s establishments in Europe

The Latymer School is a grammar school in Edmonton, London, England. It was started in 1624 by merchant Edward Latymer. In their 2008 report Ofsted graded the school as 'outstanding'. Bruce Forsyth was a student. The school is selective and co-educational.

About 186 pupils are admitted to Year 7 (aged 11 or 12) annually. Places are awarded by a competitive examination. 20 places are reserved for pupils with exceptional musical talent. The examinations taken by prospective pupils cover non-verbal reasoning, verbal reasoning and numeracy.

Around 60-70 pupils join the sixth form in Year 12 (aged 16 or 17) per year, mixing with Latymer pupils who have made the transition from Year 11. External applicants to the sixth form sit entrance examinations and generally require 6 A grades at GCSE (or equivalent) level.

[[Boeing T-43]]

CATEGORIES: Boeing 737, United States Air Force aircraft

The Boeing T-43 is a military variant of the twin-turbojet airliner Boeing 737-200. It was used between 1973 and 2010 as a training aircraft by the US Air Force. It was the biggest training aircraft in the United States.

It was used by Air Education and Training Command's 12th Flying Training Wing. Some were built as CT-43 for passenger transport duties.

[[Haberdashers' Aske's School for Girls]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 establishments in England, Schools in Hertfordshire

Haberdashers' Aske's School for Girls is a private school for girls in Elstree, Hertfordshire. It was started in 1875 by the Worshipful Company of Haberdashers. In 2013 100% of GCSEs were A*-C and 69.8% were A*.

[[Elstree]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Hertfordshire

Elstree is a village in Hertfordshire, England. The television show EastEnders is made there at Elstree Studios.

[[Emmerdale]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 television series debuts, 1970s British television series, 1980s British drama television series, 1990s British drama television series, 2000s British drama television series, 2010s British drama television series, British soap operas, Television shows set in Yorkshire, English-language television programs

Emmerdale is a British soap opera. It is set in a made-up village called Emmerdale, called Beckindale until 1994, in the Yorkshire Dales. The plot is focused on things that happen in and around The Woolpack, the main village pub. It is on ITV every weekday at 7 o'clock. It was called Emmerdale Farm until 1989. It was started in 1972 by Kevin Laffan, making it Britain's second oldest soap opera after Coronation Street. It is one of the most popular television programmes in Britain. It has been given many awards including one BAFTA.

[[Rockwell B-1 Lancer]]

CATEGORIES: United States Air Force aircraft

The Rockwell B-1 Lancer is a strategic bomber in the service of the US Air Force. It is a four-turbojet aircraft that uses a variable-sweep wing. It can carry nuclear weapons or classic bombs. It is only used by the USA.

== Variants == 

[[History of modern Mongolia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Mongolia

Mongolia became independent on December 29, 1911 from the Qing Dynasty.

[[Fiat G.50]]

CATEGORIES: Italian military aircraft, World War II aircraft

The Fiat G.50 was an Italian fighter aircraft. It was used for World War II. It was a single-engine aircraft with a single seat. It carried were two 0.50 machine-guns as weapons. Countries that operated this aircraft were Croatia, Finland, Italy, Nazi Germany, Spain, and Yugoslavia.

[[Mers-les-Bains]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Mers-les-Bains is a commune of Somme near Eu and Le Tréport. By the river Bresles, it marks the border with Upper Normandy. This commune is famous for its beach and its casino.

[[The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano]]

CATEGORIES: 1780s books, American novels, 1789 works, Autobiographies

The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano, or Gustavus Vassa, The African, is a book that was first published in 1789. It is the autobiography of Olaudah Equiano. The book describes Equiano's life in slavery. It records his efforts to be free by studying the Bible. The book goes on to tell about his gaining his freedom and his success in business. It was published in 1789 in Great Britain to inform the British public what the life of slaves was like.

[[Bridgewater High School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, 1987 establishments in England, Cheshire

Bridgewater High School is a secondary school in Warrington, Cheshire, England. It started in 1987. It was rated 'outstanding' by Ofsted. It has a sixth form called Appleton College.

[[King Solomon High School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in London, 1993 establishments in Europe

King Solomon High School is a secondary school in Barkingside, England. In their 2010 report Osted described the school as 'caring'.

[[Colyton Grammar School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, 1546 establishments in England, Devon

Colyton Grammar School is a grammar school in the village of Colyford in England. It was started in 1546. 49.4% of GCSEs in 2013 were A*, an increase of 4% on the past year, and 68.5% of A-levels were A*-A. Ofsted rated the school as outstanding.

[[Division of Gilmore]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Gilmore is an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1984 and is named for Dame Mary Gilmore, the poet and author. It includes the Budawang and Morton National Parks.  The division includes Berry, Bomaderry, Culburra Beach, Gerringong, Kangaroo Valley, Kiama, Milton, Minnamurra, Nowra, Shellharbour, Shell Cove, Sussex Inlet, Ulladulla and Warilla.

[[Eriophorum]]

CATEGORIES: Poales

Eriophorum (also called cotton grass) is a genus of about 25 species of flowering plants. It is in the family Cyperaceae. They grow in temperate regions in the Northern Hemisphere. They are especially abundant in Arctic tundra regions.

[[Sevenoaks School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, 1432 establishments, Kent, 1430s establishments in Europe, 15th century establishments in England

Sevenoaks School is an English co-educational public school in Kent. It is a member of the G20 Schools Group. It is the second oldest non-denominational school in the United Kingdom, dating back to 1432, behind Oswestry (1407). Over 1,000 day pupils and boarders attend, ranging in age from 11 to 18 years. There are approximately equal numbers of boys and girls. 

It was the first school in England to switch to the International Baccalaureate instead of the usual A-Level exams.

[[Hotchkiss School]]

CATEGORIES: 1891 establishments in the United States, Schools in Connecticut, 19th-century establishments in Connecticut

Hotchkiss School is a prep boarding school in the state of Connecticut in the United States. It is a member of the G20 Schools Group and Round Square. For boarders it costs $49,940 including technology and health services fees. It started in 1891.

[[King Ecgbert School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, Sheffield

King Ecgbert School is a secondary school in Sheffield, England. Ofsted rated it as 'good'.

[[Betty Shabazz]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 1997 deaths, Accidental deaths in the United States, African-American people, American civil rights activists, American manslaughter victims, American Muslims, People from Detroit, Michigan

Betty Shabazz was an American educator and civil rights activist. She was the widow of Malcolm X. 

She was born on May 28, in either 1934 or 1936. Her full name at birth was Betty Dean Sanders. She grew up in Detroit, Michigan. She and Malcolm X joined the Nation of Islam in 1956. They married in 1958. They had six children together. She raised them on her own after her husband was murdered in 1965.

Shabazz converted to Islam in 1965. Betty was pregnant with twin girls when she witnessed Malcolm X’s assassination. Betty never remarried after her husband’s death, and became a national figure. She also cared deeply about the struggle of people of African heritage in the U.S.

Shabazz's grandson Malcolm Shabazz (1984-2013) set fire to her apartment on June 1, 1997. She died of burns in hospital on June 23, 1997. He was convicted of arson and manslaughter and sentenced to 18 months juvenile detention.

[[Topographic map]]

CATEGORIES: Cartography

A topographic map is a kind of map which uses contour lines or other ways to show elevation and topography. Topo maps are usually very detailed, with a large scale, though some are not.  These maps are prepared based on detailed surveying of the areas concerned. 

Topographical maps may be used for many purposes.  They show relief features, rivers, land use, vegetation, settlements, roads, railway lines and administrative units and their boundaries. These maps are revised periodically to update them. Town guide maps are based on them.

[[Postage stamps and postal history of Macau]]

CATEGORIES: Postage stamps, Postal history, Macau

This is a survey of the postage stamps and postal history of Macau.

[[British Aircraft Corporation One-Eleven]]

CATEGORIES: Civil aircraft

The British Aircraft Corporation One-Eleven or sometime British Aircraft Corporation 111 or also BAC 111 was a British airliner. It was a twin-turbojet that could carry around one hundred passengers. Some were built under licence in Romania as RomBAC 111. This aircraft is similar to the French Sud Aviation Caravelle and to the US Douglas DC-9. The One-Eleven was retired from service in the 1990s because of noise restrictions. It was one of the more successful British designed airliners.

[[Softwood]]

CATEGORIES: Wood

Softwood is wood that comes from gymnosperm trees. These are conifers, a term which includes most evergreen trees. 

Softwood makes up about 80% of the world's production of lumber.  Traditional production areas include North America, Scandinavia, Baltic countries and China. The opposite of softwood is hardwood, which is wood that comes from angiosperm trees. Softwoods are not always softer than hardwoods. Both groups include a variety of wood types that vary in actual hardness. For example balsa is a hardwood but is softer than most softwoods. Douglas fir, a softwood, is much harder than many hardwoods. 

[[Detroit Lakes, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Minnesota, Cities in Minnesota

Detroit Lakes it is a city and the county seat of Becker County, Minnesota, United States. The city's economy is based on tourism and agriculture. It attracts tourists in both summer and winter.

[[VFW-Fokker 614]]

CATEGORIES: Civil aircraft, German military aircraft

The VFW-Fokker 614 is a West German airliner. It is a twin-turbojets aircraft. Its uniqueness lies in the implementation of its two turbojets above the wing. VFW-Fokker 614 can carry between 40 and 44 passengers.

It was used by airlines in Denmark, France, and Germany until 2007. German Air Force, the Luftwaffe, also used this aircraft for speed liaisons and VIP transport.

[[Andreja Pejić]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Australian actors, Australian models, Transgender and transsexual people

Andreja Pejić (born 28 August 1991) is an Australian model and actress.

[[Vought F6U Pirate]]

CATEGORIES: United States Navy aircraft

The Vought F6U Pirate is a US navalized fighter aircraft that served in the U.S. Navy. It was one of the first military single-turbojet aircraft after World War II. Its first flight was in October 1946. Only 65 were ever built, and they were only used between 1947 and 1950.

[[Anna Grodzka]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1954 births, Bisexual people, LGBT politicians, Polish politicians, Transgender and transsexual people

Anna Grodzka (born 16 March 1954) is a Polish politician. In 2011, she was elected to the National Assembly as a member of the Palikot's Movement party. She became Poland's first transsexual Member of Parliament. She is the only openly transgender MP in the world. She went to the University of Warsaw. She is bisexual.

[[Mamphela Ramphele]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, South African politicians, South African writers, Activists, Living people

Mamphela Aletta Ramphele (born 28 December 1947) is a South African politician and writer. In February 2013, she started her own political party, Agang South Africa. Ramphele was previously an activist against Apartheid in South Africa.

[[Playaz Circle]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop bands, 1997 establishments in the United States, Musical groups from Georgia (U.S. state), Musical groups established in 1997, 2013 disestablishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), Disestablishments in Georgia (U.S. state)

Playaz Circle were an American hip hop group from Georgia. The members were rappers 2 Chainz and Dolla Boy. The group was established in 1997 but did not began recording until 2007 with their best selling album. They were discovered by Ludacris and he signed them to his record label DTP. They are best known for their hit single "Duffle Bag Boy" that features Lil Wayne. In 2013 they broke up to work individually.

[[Fisher Ames]]

CATEGORIES: American lawyers, 1758 births, 1808 deaths, Harvard University alumni, United States representatives from Massachusetts

Fisher Ames (April 9, 1758 – July 4, 1808) was a United States Congress representative from the First Congressional District of Massachusetts.

[[Judgment Day (2006)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in professional wrestling, Sports in Phoenix, Arizona, WWE Judgment Day, 2006 in the United States, 2000s in Phoenix

Judgment Day (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 21, 2006 at the US Airways Center in Phoenix, Arizona. It was the eighth Judgment Day event held by the WWE.

[[North China Plain]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of China, Plains

The North China Plain (华北平原) is the large space of level land in eastern China. It was made by the Yellow River for the most part. It is the largest space of level land in eastern Asia. The Yellow River goes through the middle of the plain into the Bohai Sea. This plain is very important to China, because people grow lots of crops here. The North China Plain is 409,500 square kilometers. Most of this area is 50 meters below sea level. China's capital, Beijing, is in the north part of the plains. The southern part is sometimes called Zhongyuan, though it is also called the Central Plains. The Chinese civilization formed in the Central Plains.

[[Division of Grayndler]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Grayndler is an Australian Electoral Division in Sydney, New South Wales. It is one of Australia's smallest electorates, and includes the suburbs of Annandale, Ashfield, Dulwich Hill, Enmore, Haberfield, Hurlstone Park, Leichhardt, Marrickville, Newtown, Petersham, Stanmore and Summer Hill. It was set up in 1949 and is named for Edward Grayndler (1867–1943), a Member of the New South Wales Legislative Council and General Secretary of the Australian Workers' Union from 1912 to 1941. 

[[Wulfhere of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 670s deaths, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Wulfhere or Wulfar († 675) was an early King of Mercia. Although his father was pagan Wulfhere was a Christian. His older brother Peada ruled Mercia south of the River Thames under Oswiu of Northumbria. When Peada was murdered Oswiu held Mercia until the ealdormen of Mercia rebelled and placed Wulfhere on the throne. Wulfhere ruled Mercia from 658 until his death. He was the first Mercian bretwalda (overlord) of England. 

[[Automatic behaviour]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms, Reflexes, Psychology

Automatic behaviour is the name for a set of actions that occur (or that continue to occur), without conscious thought. Usually, they are guided by a part of the nervous system that is called autonomic nervous system, or visceral nervous system. Automatic behaviour is like a reflex.

Many mental illnesses have certain forms of unwanted automatic behaviour.

[[Minyan]]

CATEGORIES: Judaism

Minyan, in Judaism, is a group of ten Jewish men ( or women in non Orthodox groups) that are needed to perform certain rituals.

[[Judgment Day (2005)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in professional wrestling, Sports in Minneapolis, Minnesota, WWE Judgment Day, 2005 in the United States, History of Minneapolis, Minnesota

Judgment Day (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 22, 2005 at the Target Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It was the seventh Judgment Day event held by the WWE.

[[Judgment Day (2004)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in American television, 2004 in professional wrestling, Sports in Los Angeles, WWE Judgment Day, 2000s in Los Angeles, California, 2004 in California

Judgment Day (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 16, 2004 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. It was the sixth Judgment Day event held by the WWE.

[[Tear down this wall!]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 in Europe, Speeches by Ronald Reagan, Mikhail Gorbachev, Berlin Wall, 1980s in the Soviet Union, 1987 in the United States, 1980s in Germany

"Tear down this wall!" was the challenge made by United States President Ronald Reagan to Soviet Union leader Mikhail Gorbachev to destroy the Berlin Wall. The speech was made at the Brandenburg Gate near the Berlin Wall on June 12, 1987. It was made to honor the 750th anniversary of Berlin. 

Among the spectators were West German president Richard von Weizsäcker, Chancellor Helmut Kohl and First Lady Nancy Reagan.

Reagan challenged Gorbachev, who was then the General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, to tear the wall down as a symbol of Gorbachev's desire to increase freedom between Eastern and Western Germany.

The speech is thought to be one of the greatest speeches by Reagan or by any other president. 

[[Juan Manuel Tenuta]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Uruguayan entertainers

Juan Manuel Tenuta (23 January 1924 – 5 November 2013) was a Uruguayan actor. He was known for his roles in Waiting for the Hearse, I Don't Want to Talk About It and Night of the Pencils.

Tenuta was born on 23 January 1924 Fray Bentos, Uruguay. He was married to actress Adela Gleijer until his death in 2013. He was father of the actress Andrea Tenuta. Tenuta died on 5 November 2013 in Buenos Aires, Argentina from a stroke, aged 89.

[[Bill de Blasio]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, 2020 United States presidential candidates, Mayors of New York City, US Democratic Party politicians

Bill de Blasio (born Warren Wilhelm, Jr.; May 8, 1961) is an American politician. He is the Mayor of New York City since 2014. He formerly served as the New York City Public Advocate from 2010 to 2013. Before that, he was a New York City Council member. He represented the 39th District in Brooklyn (Borough Park, Carroll Gardens, Cobble Hill, Gowanus, Kensington, Park Slope, and Windsor Terrace). 

[[Death and state funeral of Ronald Reagan]]

CATEGORIES: Ronald Reagan, 2004 in the United States, State funerals

On June 5, 2004, Ronald Reagan, the 40th President of the United States, died after having suffered from Alzheimer's disease for almost 10 years. A seven-day state funeral for Reagan was held shortly after his death. 

[[Ronald Reagan Presidential Library]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures named after Ronald Reagan, Museums in California, Buildings and structures in California, Presidential libraries, Simi Valley, California

The Ronald Reagan Presidential Library and Center for Public Affairs is the presidential library and final resting place of Ronald Wilson Reagan, the 40th President of the United States and Nancy Reagan, the First Lady of the United States. 

The library is located in Simi Valley, California. The Reagan Library is the largest of the thirteen federally operated presidential libraries. The street address, 40 Presidential Drive, is numbered in honor of Reagan's place as the 40th President.

Construction plans for the library included to build a tomb for the eventual use of Reagan and Nancy. Following a sunset service on the library grounds the last evening, on the morning of June 12, 2004 Reagan was laid to rest in the underground vault. Nancy Reagan, who died on March 6, 2016, was buried at the library next to her husband on March 11.

[[Division of Greenway]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Greenway is an Australian electoral division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1984 and is named for Francis Greenway, an ex-convict who became an important architect in colonial Sydney.

It is in the west and north-west suburbs of Sydney. It includes Acacia Gardens, Girraween, Glenwood, Kellyville Ridge, Kings Langley, Kings Park, Lalor Park, Parklea, Seven Hills, Stanhope Gardens, The Ponds, Toongabbie and parts of Blacktown, Pendle Hill, Prospect, Quakers Hill, Riverstone, Rouse Hill, Schofields and Vineyard.

[[Judgment Day (2002)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 in professional wrestling, 2000s in Nashville, Tennessee, WWE Judgment Day, 2002 in the United States, 2000s in Tennessee, May events

Judgment Day (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on May 19, 2002 at the Gaylord Entertainment Center in Nashville, Tennessee. It was the fourth Judgment Day event held by the WWE.

[[The Indelicates]]

CATEGORIES: British rock bands, Entertainers from Sussex, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups

The Indelicates are an indie rock band from Sussex, England. It was started in late 2005 by Julia Clark-Lowes, who left The Pipettes six months before, and Simon Clayton (under their stage names, Julia and Simon Indelicate). They have released four albums.  Julia and Simon are a couple.

The Indelicates released their first album American Demo in 2008. In 2010 they released their second album, Songs for Swinging Lovers. In 2011 the band's third album David Koresh Superstar was released. It is a concept album about David Koresh. In 2013 The Indelicates released their fourth album Diseases of England.

[[The Pipettes]]

CATEGORIES: British girl groups, People from Brighton, English musical groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups

The Pipettes are an English girl group. They were formed in Brighton by Robert "Monster Bobby" Barry in 2003 at a seaside party. The members were Julia Clarke-Lowes, Rose Elinor Dougall and Rebecca Stephens. The band has had a lot of changes of members. The members are now Gwenno and Ani Saunders. They have released two albums and two EPs. Their single "Pull Shapes" reached number 26 in the UK Singles Chart. Ani Saunders joined the band in 2008. She is also a member of The Lovely Wars.

[[Michael Parkinson]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1935 births, British television talk show hosts, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, English journalists, English television presenters, Television personalities from Yorkshire

Sir Michael Parkinson, CBE, also known as Parky, (born 28 March 1935) is an English broadcaster, journalist, and writer. He is best known for his chat show Parkinson. He was born in Cudworth, a village in South Yorkshire. He went to Barnsley Grammar School. He started his journalism career writing for local newspapers. His book Parky: My Autobiography was published on 2 October 2008. Parkinson lives with his wife in Berkshire.

[[Division of Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1955 establishments in Australia

The Division of Hughes is an Australian Electoral Division in New South Wales. It was set up in 1955 and is named for Billy Hughes, who was Prime Minister of Australia 1915-23. It is in the southern and southwestern suburbs of Sydney, including Alfords Point, Bangor, Barden Ridge, Chipping Norton, East Hills, Engadine, Hammondville, Holsworthy, Illawong, Loftus, Lucas Heights, Menai, Milperra, Moorebank, Panania, Picnic Point, Revesby, Warwick Farm, Wattle Grove and Woronora and parts of Padstow, Jannali, Liverpool and Sutherland.

[[Battle of Long Island]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of the American Revolutionary War, 1776 in New York (state), August events

The Battle of Long Island was a major battle in the American war of independence. It is also known as the Battle of Brooklyn or the Battle of Brooklyn Heights. The battle which was fought on August 27, 1776, was a major victory for the British and defeat for the Americans under General George Washington. It was the start of a successful British campaign that gave the British control of the strategically important city of New York. In the American Revolutionary War it was the first major battle to take place after the United States declared independence in July, 1776. In terms of soldiers, it was the largest battle of the entire conflict.

General George Washington, Commander-in-Chief had defeated the British in the Siege of Boston on March 17, 1776. Washington then used the Continental Army to defend the port city of New York. At that time, New York City was only at the southern end of Manhattan Island.  Washington understood that the city's harbor would provide an excellent base for the British Navy during the campaign. For this reason, he established defenses there and waited for the British to attack.

The British were commanded by General William Howe. In July his force landed a few miles across the harbor on sparsely-populated Staten Island. Over the next few months, new ships slowly reinforced their position in Lower New York Harbor. In August there were 32,000 soldiers, and the British controlled the entrance of the harbor at The Narrows. Washington knew that it would be difficult to hold the city against such a force. He believed Manhattan would be the first target and he moved most of his forces there.

On August 22, the British landed on the shores of Gravesend Bay in southwest Kings County, across The Narrows from Staten Island, more than 12 miles (20 km) south from the East River crossings to Manhattan. Washington brought some of his troops to northern Kings County, expecting to fight only part of the attacking army.

After five days of waiting, the British attacked American defenses. Unknown to the Americans, however, Howe had brought his main army around their rear and attacked their flank soon after. The Americans panicked, although a stand by 400 Maryland troops prevented most of the army from being captured. The remainder of the army fled to the main defenses on Brooklyn Heights. The British dug in for a siege but, on the night of August 29–30, Washington evacuated the entire army to Manhattan without the loss of materiel or a single life. Washington and the Continental Army were driven out of New York entirely after the battle of Fort Washington and other defeats, and forced to retreat through New Jersey and into Pennsylvania.

[[Nautical chart]]

CATEGORIES: Cartography

A nautical chart is a map which is used to show objects on the ocean. Nautical charts were very common from the 14th century to the 17th century. They are usually used by sailors to navigate.

[[Siouxsie and the Banshees]]

CATEGORIES: English rock bands, 1976 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1996 disestablishments in England

Siouxsie and the Banshees were an English rock band. They were started in 1976 in London by Siouxsie Sioux and Steven Severin. They met at a Roxy Music concert the year before. The band broke up in 1996. They later performed together again in 2002 for a tour. They released 11 studio albums between 1978 and 1995. Their most popular song in the UK was "Dear Prudence", a Beatles cover. It reached number 3 in the UK Singles Chart. They were less popular in the United States, but their 1991 single "Kiss Them For Me" reached 23 on the Billboard Hot 100. They were also the second headliners for the first Lollapalooza.

The group played their first concert at the 100 Club Punk Festival. Sid Vicious played drums. Marco Pirroni played guitar. Without practising beforehand, they did a twenty-minute improvised version of the Lord's Prayer. The band had no name and was going to break up after the concert, but they were asked to play again.

Two months later Kenny Morris joined as a drummer and Peter Fenton as a guitarist. After a few performances, the band realized that Fenton didn't fit in and John McKay took his place.

In 1978, the band were signed to Polydor Records. They released their first single "Hong Kong Garden". It reached 7 on the UK Singles Chart. They released their first album, The Scream, in November. It reached number 12 in the UK Albums Chart. It got mostly good reviews. Sounds said it was "the best debut album of the year".

Robert Smith was guitarist in the band's 1979 tour for Join Hands. He joined the group again in 1982 to replace John McGeoch. He left in 1984 because he said that being in two bands at once was too much stress. He was replaced by John "Valentine" Carruthers. Before he left he wanted his time with the band to be documented, so the band released a cover of the Beatles' "Dear Prudence" with Smith on guitar.

Peter Edward Clark, known as Budgie, also joined the band for the Join Hands tour. He stayed a member until the band broke up. In 1987 Carruthers left and was replaced with Jon Klein. Martin McCarrick became the band's full-time keyboard player.

In 1987, the band released Through the Looking Glass, an album of covers of songs by other musicians.

Between January and June 1988, the band recorded their ninth album, Peepshow. It was released on 5 September 1988. It had a more pop sound than their previous albums. It got very good reviews. Q gave it 5 stars.

In 1991, Superstition, the Banshees' tenth album, was released. The single "Kiss Them for Me" became their biggest US hit.

In 1995, they released their last album, The Rapture. A few weeks later, Polydor dropped them from their label. Guitarist Klein was replaced with Knox Chandler for the band's last tour.

[[History of bus transport in Hong Kong]]

CATEGORIES: History of Hong Kong, Bus transport

The history of bus transport in Hong Kong started in 1920 when the first bus route started providing service.

[[Arrondissements of the Hautes-Pyrénées department]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France, Occitanie

There are 3 arrondissements in the Hautes-Pyrénées department. The French departments, and in other countries, are divided into arrondissements, which may be translated into English as districts (in some cases, as boroughs).  The capital of an arrondissement is called a subprefecture.

If the prefecture (capital) of the department is in an arrondissement, that prefecture is the capital of the arrondissement, acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture.

Arrondissements are further divided into cantons and communes.

The arrondissements of the Hautes-Pyrénées are:

[[Ring theory]]

CATEGORIES: Algebra

Ring theory is a theory from algebra. In algebra a ring is a structure where multiplication and addition are defined. Rings are similar structures to that of integers.

[[Aurangzeb]]

CATEGORIES: Muslims, Religious leaders, Mughal emperors, 1618 births, 1707 deaths

Muhi-ud-Din Muhammad also known as Aurangzeb or by his title Alamgir  was the sixth emperor of the Mughal Empire. He ruled over most of the Indian subcontinent through Islamic Sharia. His reign lasted for 49 years from 1658 until his death in 1707. During this time, Aurangzeb greatly expanded the territory of the Mughal Empire. He was constantly at war. Victories in the south expanded the Empire to more than 4 million square kilometres as he was the only ruler after Emperor Ashoka to ruled over such a largest land as a result unifying the entirety of Indian Subcontinent (South Asia) under one ruler after two millennium. His empire was the world's largest economy, valued 27% of world's GDP. He was the last great and powerful ruler of the Mughal dynasty. After his death, the power of the Mughal Empire declined quickly due to weak and ineffective successors. His administration of Mughal empire led to its apex in terms of territory and wealth. He defeated the British in their fruitless attempt to colonize India as matter of fact after the humiliating defeat of Brits (EIC), they had to prostrate on mat before the emperor and begged for forgiveness but were forgiven later after paying a large sum in compensation and promise never to dare such insolence. Emperor Aurangzeb's exchequer raised a record £100 million in annual revenue through various sources like taxes, customs and land revenue, et al. from 24 provinces. He had an annual yearly revenue of $450 million, more than ten times that of his contemporary . 

Aurangzeb was well educated and ambitious. He compiled the Fatawa Alamgiri, which served as the Islamic law of India.

His full name was Abdul Muzaffar Muhi-ud-Din Mohammad Aurangzeb. His imperial title was Alamgir, which means 'The World Conqueror'.

[[Wii Sports Club]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 video games, Wii U games

Wii Sports Club/Wii Sports 3 is a sports video game for the Wii U. It has high definition remakes of the sports seen in the 2006 Wii video game Wii Sports which can be downloaded from the Wii U's eShop service. The first two sports, bowling and tennis, were released in Japan on October 30, 2013, in Europe and North America on November 7, 2013, and in Australia and New Zealand on November 8, 2013. Other sports will be released at a later date.

Like in Wii Sports, players use the Wii Remote to make movements like the ones seen in the real-life sports, including tennis, bowling, baseball, golf, and boxing. However, like in Wii Sports Resort, the player has to use the Wii MotionPlus to play the game. Players can join clubs that are of different places around the world. They can play against people in the club. Players can talk to other players with messages and drawings from the Wii U GamePad.

[[Judgment Day (2001)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 in professional wrestling, History of Sacramento, California, WWE Judgment Day, 2001 in California, May events

Judgment Day (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on May 20, 2001 at the ARCO Arena in Sacramento, California. It was the third Judgment Day event held by the WWF.

[[Arrondissement of Argelès-Gazost]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Argelès-Gazost is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Hautes-Pyrénées department in the Occitanie region. Its capital is the city of Argelès-Gazost. 

[[Selfishness]]

CATEGORIES: Narcissism, Ethics

Selfishness is having more concern for yourself than for others. It is caring, through thoughts or actions, more about your own needs than the needs and well-being of other people. It may be accompanied by a lack of empathy. Selfishness is the opposite of selflessness. It is also different, though related, to self-centredness and self-affirmation. Many psychologists approve of a healthy level of selfishness, in order for some people to stay happy.

In the study of ethics and morality, selfishness is usually considered bad. In contrast, acts of selflessness are praised. Wider debate about it, however, such as in philosophy, psychology and economics, has shown that scholars have had many different opinions about its value and consequences. In most major religions, selfishness is considered an immoral or bad habit. In Christianity, it is associated with pride, often considered the worst of the Seven deadly sins. Aristotle condemned men who would only try to profit themselves; but he approved of those who would try to gain the praise from others that he deserved.

In the context of modern-day economics, there is a much wider opinion. Bernard Mandeville has argued that the economic advancement of society depends on selfish actions. Ayn Rand argued that selfishness is a virtue and the cause of all progress.

[[Judgment Day (2000)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in professional wrestling, Louisville, Kentucky, WWE Judgment Day, 2000 in the United States, History of Kentucky

Judgment Day (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on May 20, 2000 at the Freedom Hall in Louisville, Kentucky. It was the second Judgment Day event held by the WWF and the first annual.

[[Arrondissement of Bagnères-de-Bigorre]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Bagnères-de-Bigorre is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Hautes-Pyrénées département in the Occitanie region. Its capital is the city of Bagnères-de-Bigorre.

[[Arrondissement of Tarbes]]

CATEGORIES: Arrondissements of France

The arrondissement of Tarbes is an arrondissement of France.  It is part of the Hautes-Pyrénées department in the Occitanie region. Its capital, and of the department, is the city of Tarbes.

[[List of monarchs of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of heads of state, Kings and Queens of Mercia

The Kingdom of Mercia was an important monarchy in the English Midlands from the 6th century to the 10th. From the mid-7th century until it ceased to exist as a kingdom, Mercia was the most powerful of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. Some of its rulers were the first to claim titles such as King of the English and King of Britain. Mercia was one of the seven kingdoms of the Heptarchy. This is a later name given to the seven Anglo-Saxon kingdoms of England during the early Middle Ages. Besides Mercia it included Northumbria, Wessex, East Anglia, Essex, Kent, and Sussex.

The first dynasty of Mercian kings are called the Iclingas. The name comes from Icel who ruled the Mercians 450. Members of this dynasty claimed to be descendants the royal family of their homeland in Western Europe. Mercia became a dominant force under Penda from about 632 until his death in 655. Bretwalda, his son, was the first Mercian overlord of the southern English. Offa (757–796), was the first of the Anglo-Saxon kings who might rightly be called "king of the English". Mercia was never again as powerful as it was during Offa's reign. For their successors in England see List of English monarchs.

[[Division of Hume]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1901 establishments in Australia

The Division of Hume is an Australian Electoral Division in the state of New South Wales. It was one of the 75 divisions set up for the first Federal election in 1901. It was named after Hamilton Hume, one of the first Europeans to travel through the area.

[[Extreme Rules (2013)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in professional wrestling, Sports in St. Louis, Missouri, WWE Extreme Rules, 2013 in the United States, 2010s in St. Louis, Missouri

Extreme Rules (2013) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on May 19, 2013 at the Scottrade Center in St. Louis, Missouri. It was the fifth Extreme Rules event held by the WWE.

[[East Pakistan Central Peace Committee]]

CATEGORIES: History of Bangladesh, History of Pakistan, Bangladesh Liberation War, 1971 establishments in Asia, 1970s establishments in Pakistan

East Pakistan central peace committee (পূর্ব পাকিস্তান কেন্দ্রীয় শান্তি কমিটি, مشرقی پاکستان مرکزی امن کمیٹی) was one of several committees formed in 1971 by the administration of the Pakistan Army. It was created to help stop the rebellion in the former East Pakistan region (what is now Bangladesh). The rebels wanted independence for East Pakistan.

The committee was commonly known as the Peace Committee or Shanti Committee after Shanti Bahini.

[[USS Ronald Reagan]]

CATEGORIES: Things named after Ronald Reagan, Naval ships of the United States

USS ''Ronald Reagan'' is a nuclear-powered naval ship in the service of the United States Navy. The ninth ship of her class, she is named in honor of former President Ronald Reagan, President of the United States from 1981 to 1989. Upon her christening in 2001, she was the first ship to be named for a former president still living at the time.

As of May 2012 the ship is operationally part of Carrier Strike Group Nine and administratively under the command of Commander, Naval Air Forces Pacific/Commander, Naval Air Forces. The two administrative titles actually refer to one command carrying out two functions.

Unlike most of the other men honored by inclusion in this group, Reagan was not associated with the United States Navy, apart from his term as Commander-in-Chief, though one of his key initiatives in office was the 600-ship Navy program. 

Ronald did not attend the christening of the USS Ronald Reagan because of his ill health from Alzheimer's disease. His wife, Nancy Reagan, christened the naval ship along with then-President of the United States George W. Bush.

The naval ship was on a voyage when Reagan died on June 5, 2004.

[[Extreme Rules (2012)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in professional wrestling, WWE Extreme Rules, 2012 in American television, 2010s in Illinois

Extreme Rules (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on April 29, 2012 at the Allstate Arena in Rosemont, Illinois. It was the fourth Extreme Rules event held by the WWE.

[[Manfred Rommel]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Germany, German lawyers, German mayors, People from Stuttgart, Politicians from Baden-Württemberg, Politicians of the Christian Democratic Union of Germany

Manfred Rommel, Hon. CBE (24 December 1928 – 7 November 2013) was a German politician. He belonged to the Christian Democratic Union (CDU). He was Lord Mayor of Stuttgart from 1974 until 1996. He was the only son of Erwin Rommel and his wife Lucia Maria Mollin.

Rommel was born on 24 December 1928 in Stuttgart, Weimar Republic, Germany. He was married to Liselotte Rommel from 1954 until his death in 2013. They had a daughter, Cathrine Rommel. Rommel died on 7 November 2013 from Parkinson's disease in Stuttgart, Germany. He was 84 years old.

[[Amparo Rivelles]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2013 deaths, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors, Spanish stage actors, People from Madrid

Amparo Rivelles, (real name: María Amparo Rivelles Ladrón de Guevara) (11 February 1925 – 7 November 2013) was a Spanish actress.

Rivelles was born on 11 February 1925 in Madrid, Spain.

In the beginning of her career, she was known as Amparito Rivelles.

She worked in Cinema of Mexico and in telenovelas. Grandchildren of theatre couple  Jaime Rivelles and Amparo Guillén, Rivelles was the sister of famous Carlos Larrañaga actor, and aunt of Luis Merlo, Amparo Larrañaga and Pedro Larrañaga.

Rivelles died on 7 November 2013 in Madrid, Spain from unknown causes, aged 88.

[[Virginia Plan]]

CATEGORIES: American Revolutionary War, 1787 in the United States, United States Constitution, 18th century in Virginia

The Virginia Plan was a proposal made by Virginia delegates at the Constitutional Convention of 1787. James Madison drafted the plan for a government with 3 subdivisions, or branches that would be equal in power. It also proposed states with large populations have more representatives. States with small populations would have fewer representatives. The plan called for a congress with new powers to tax and make laws. It also proposed a president and a supreme court. Ultimately, this created a strong central government separated into three branches. The resolutions went well beyond making minor changes to the Articles of Confederation. It succeeded in expanding the debate to include basic changes to the structure and powers of the national government.

Later on, the Virginia plan was modified and accepted as the United States Constitution. 

[[Brian Pillman]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 1997 deaths, American football linebackers, American professional wrestlers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Cincinnati Bengals players, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Ohio

Brian William Pillman, Sr. (May 22, 1962 – October 5, 1997) was an American professional wrestler and football player. He is known for competing in World Championship Wrestling, Extreme Championship Wrestling and the World Wrestling Federation in the 1990s.

He was well known as "The Loose Cannon", which was a gimmick that would see him do worked shoots that would gain him infamy for his unpredictable character.

Before becoming a professional wrestler, Pillman played football in the NFL for the Cincinnati Bengals and in the CFL for the Calgary Stampeders.

Pillman was found dead by police in his Bloomington, Minnesota hotel room on October 5, 1997 from a previously undetected heart condition called arteriosclerotic heart disease. That same night, Pillman was supposed to face Dude Love on the WWF pay-per-view Badd Blood: In Your House.

[[Third-person view]]

CATEGORIES: Video game design

In video games, third-person means the game shows the playable character on screen, allowing the camera to freely move around them. This view is most common in action and action-adventure games.

[[Lythronax]]

CATEGORIES: Cretaceous dinosaurs, Dinosaurs of North America, Tyrannosaurids

Lythronax is an extinct genus of tyrannosaurid theropod dinosaur. It lived about 80 million years ago (mya) in what is now southern Utah. L. argestes is the oldest known tyrannosaurid based on its stratigraphic position.

Comparisons to its close relatives suggest that Lythronax would have been about 8 long, with a weight of around 2.5 and had a large skull filled with sharp teeth. 

The rostrum is comparatively short: it makes up less than two thirds of the total skull length. The whole skull is very broad, 0.4 times as wide as long. Overall, the skull is similar to that of Tyrannosaurus and Tarbosaurus. Its robust jaws have two sizes of teeth: its first five teeth are much larger than the other six. Behind the skull, the rest of the skeleton is similar to that of other tyrannosaurids.

[[Hudson Institute]]

CATEGORIES: Non-profit organizations of Washington, D.C., Think tanks, 1961 establishments in the United States

The Hudson Institute is an American conservative non-profit think tank based in Washington D.C.  It was founded in 1961 in Croton-on-Hudson, New York, by futurist, military strategist, and systems theorist Herman Kahn and his colleagues at the RAND Corporation.

The Institute is committed to innovative research and analysis that promotes ‘global security, prosperity and freedom’. It promotes public policy change in accordance with its stated values: 

The Capital Research Center, gives Hudson a 7 on its ideological spectrum (8 is "Free Market Right" and 1 is "Radical Left").

In March 2011, Kenneth R. Weinstein was appointed president and CEO of the institute replacing Herbert London.

[[RAND Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Non-profit organizations of California, Santa Monica, California, Think tanks, 1948 establishments in the United States, 1940s establishments in California

The RAND Corporation is a nonprofit global policy think tank first formed to offer research and analysis to the United States Armed Forces. The RAND was started in 1946 inside the Douglas Aircraft Company. It was set up as an independent corporation in 1948. The name was taken from R&D (research and development), though in fact it did no development. 

[[Siouxsie Sioux]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1957 births, English singer-songwriters

Siouxsie Sioux (born Susan Janet Ballion, 27 May 1957), is an English singer-songwriter. She is best known as the lead singer of rock band Siouxsie and the Banshees (1976–1996). They released 11 studio albums in their career and two UK top ten singles, "Hong Kong Garden" and "Dear Prudence". 

In 1981, Sioux and drummer Budgie made a side-project called The Creatures. They released four studio albums and broke up in 2005. In 1994 she released a single with Morrissey called "Interlude". That year she also sang on a Hector Zazou song called "The Lighthouse". In 2004 she started performing on her own as Siouxsie. Her first solo album, Mantaray, was released in 2007. In June 2013 she performed for the first time in five years at the Royal Festival Hall in London. 

She plays guitar, piano, bass, and percussion.  Her voice is in the coloratura contralto range.

[[Brookings Institution]]

CATEGORIES: Think tanks, Non-profit organizations of Washington, D.C., 1910s establishments in Washington, D.C., 1916 establishments in the United States

The Brookings Institution is an American think tank based in Washington, D.C. in the United States. One of Washington's oldest think tanks, Brookings conducts research and education in the social sciences, mainly in economics, policy, government, foreign policy, and global economy and development. In the University of Pennsylvania’s 2012 Global go-to think tanks report, Brookings is ranked the most influential think tank in the world.

Its mission is:

Brookings states that its scholars "represent diverse points of view" and describes itself as non-partisan. The media describe Brookings as "liberal-centrist" or "centrist". An analysis of Congressional records from 1993 to 2002 found that Brookings was referenced by conservative politicians almost as often as liberal politicians. It got a score of 53 on a 1-100 scale with 100 the most liberal score. The same study found Brookings to be the most frequently cited think tank by the U.S. media and  politicians.

[[Robert Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, English rock musicians, English rock singers, Musicians from Blackpool, People from West Sussex, Singers from Surrey, Singers from Sussex

Robert James Smith (born 30 May 1956) is an English musician. He is best known for being the lead singer of The Cure. He has been the only constant member in the band's 37-year history. They have released 13 studio albums and 10 EPs. Their biggest UK hit so far is "Lullaby", which reached number 5. Their biggest US hit is "Lovesong". He was also guitarist for Siouxsie and the Banshees and in 1982 he released an album called Blue Sunshine with the Banshees' Steven Severin under the name The Glove. He has worked with other bands like Crystal Castles. He has also sung songs on his own for movie soundtracks.

[[Royal United Services Institute]]

CATEGORIES: London, Think tanks, Non-profit organizations of Europe, 1831 establishments in Europe, Organisations based in the United Kingdom, 1830s establishments in the United Kingdom

The Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies (RUSI)  is a British defence and security think tank. 

It was founded in 1831 by the Duke of Wellington. RUSI describes itself as "the leading forum in the UK for national and international Defence and Security". It won Prospect Magazine's Think Tank of the Year Award 2008. In 2009, the same magazine named RUSI "Foreign Policy Think Tank of the Year". In 2011 RUSI celebrated its 180th Anniversary.

RUSI's Director is Michael Clarke and its President is HRH the Duke of Kent.

[[Zazen]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist terminology, Meditation

Zazen (literally "seated meditation"; 坐禅; 坐禅) is a form of meditation in Zen Buddhism. It can calm the body and the mind.

[[Sarah Fimm]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), American singer-songwriters, Singers from Oklahoma

Sarah Fimm is a singer-songwriter from Oklahoma. She lives in Woodstock, New York. She has released six albums. Her first album, Cocooned, was released in 2001.

[[Guennol Lioness]]

CATEGORIES: Sculptures, Mesopotamia

The Guennol Lioness is a 5,000-year-old Mesopotamian statue found near Baghdad, Iraq. It shows the form of a muscular anthropomorphic lioness-woman.

The sculpture sold for $57.2 million at Sotheby's auction house on December 5, 2007. The sculpture was on loan to the Brooklyn Museum of Art until it was purchased at auction by an English collector.

The limestone sculpture is just over 8 cm (3.25 in) tall. It was described by Sotheby's as "one of the last known masterworks from the dawn of civilization remaining in private hands". One day before the auction, experts had been estimating that the highest bid would be between $14 million and $18 million.

At the time of its 2007 sale, the price paid at auction for the Guennol Lioness was the highest paid for a sculpture to that date. It easily exceeded the record of Pablo Picasso's Tete de femme (Dora Maar). On 3 February 2010, however, the second edition of the cast of the sculpture L'Homme qui marche I (Walking Man I) by Alberto Giacometti sold for £65,001,250 ($104,327,006) and overtook the Guennol Lioness as the most expensive sculpture ever sold at auction.

This lioness-woman sculpture is an Elamite figure believed to have been created about 3000–2800 B.C. Its historical significance is that it was made about the same time as the first known use of the wheel, the development of cuneiform writing, and the emergence of the first cities.

Many ancient Near East deities were represented as anthropomorphic figures. Such images evoked the Mesopotamian belief in attaining power over the physical world by combining the superior physical attributes of various species. It is possible that the nearby Sumerians borrowed this powerful artistic hybrid from the Proto-Elamites. The lioness was the frequent subject of veneration among cultures familiar with the well-coordinated hunting of female lions.

[[Lana Del Rey]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1985 births, American guitarists, Singer-songwriters from New York, Brit Award winners

Elizabeth Woolridge Grant (born June 21, 1985), known by her stage name Lana Del Rey, is an American singer and songwriter from New York. She has sold about 19.1 million albums and 13 million singles around the world. She has released six albums and four EPs since 2008. 

[[Kelly Chen]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1972 births, Singers from Hong Kong, Actors from Hong Kong

Kelly Chen Wai-lam (born 13 September 1972) is a Hong Kong Cantopop singer and actress. She sings in Cantonese, English, Japanese, and Mandarin. She has released thirty-two studio albums. In 2009 the World Economic Forum chose her as one of the year's "Young Global Leaders". She has appeared in many TV commercials. She is signed to the record label Go East Entertainment Ltd, HK. In 2002 she started the Kelly Chen Children Education Fund. 

[[Aminah]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, 577 deaths, Arab people, Year of birth unknown

Aminah bint Wahb (آمنة بنت وهب ar; died 577 AD) was the mother of the prophet Muhammad.

[[Léa Seydoux]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, French movie actors, French television actors, French stage actors, French voice actors, Actors from Paris, Actresses who played Bond girls

Léa Hélène Seydoux-Fornier de Clausonne (born 1 July 1985) is a French actress. In 2013, she won the Palme d'Or prize at the Cannes Film Festival for the movie Blue Is the Warmest Colour. She is also known for her role as Bond girl Madeleine Swann in Spectre (2015), and will reprise the role in No Time to Die (2020).

[[St. Bees School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in England, 1583 establishments, Cumbria, 1580s establishments in Europe, 16th century establishments in England

St. Bees School is a boarding school for boys and girls aged 4-18 in St. Bees, a West Cumbrian village. It was started in 1583 by the then Archbishop of Canterbury, Edmund Grindal as a boys' "free grammar school". The term 'free' did not mean that the school didn't charge the students, but that the school wasn't ruled by the Church. In 1976 the school became open to girls. The school grounds are about 250 acres (1,000,000 m2).

In 2013, 100% of GCSEs were A*-C, and 43% were A*/A. The school has a swimming pool which can be used by people who don't go to the school.

[[Extreme Rules (2010)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 in professional wrestling, Sports in Baltimore, Maryland, WWE Extreme Rules, 2010s in Baltimore, Maryland, 2010 in the United States

Extreme Rules (2010) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment. It was held on April 25, 2010 at the 1st Mariner Arena in Baltimore, Maryland. It was the second Extreme Rules event held by the WWE.

[[Daughter (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 2010, English rock bands, Indie rock bands, Musical groups from London

Daughter is an English indie rock band from London. They released their first album If You Leave in 2013, which reached 16 in the UK Albums Chart. 

[[Xiu Xiu]]

CATEGORIES: American musical groups, 2002 establishments in the United States

Xiu Xiu is an American band formed in 2002. The members are Jamie Stewart, the band's only constant member, Shayna Dunkelman, Ches Smith, and Angela Seo. They have released 9 studio albums.

[[Bath Spa railway station]]

CATEGORIES: Bath, Somerset, Railway stations in England

Bath Spa railway station is the main railway station in the city of Bath, Somerset, in South West England It's served by First Great Western, South West Trains and CrossCountry. It is on the Great Western Main Line and joins  the Wessex Main Line via Bradford-on-Avon.

[[Philotes (mythology)]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

Philotes (Φιλότης) was a minor Greek goddess. She was a daughter of Nyx. She is the personification of affection, sexual intercourse and friendship.

[[Jushin Liger]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese professional wrestlers, Living people, Mixed martial artists, People from Hiroshima, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni, 1962 births

Keiichi Yamada is a Japanese professional wrestler better known under the ring names, Jushin Liger and Jushin "Thunder" Liger.

He mainly works for New Japan Pro Wrestling which he has worked for since 1984. He has competed many different professional wrestling companies in Japan and North America.

Liger worked for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) from 1991 to 1999. During his time in WCW, he won the WCW Light Heavyweight Championship when he defeated then-champion Brian Pillman during a house show in Atlanta, Georgia on December 25, 1991. He held the title for 2 months and was defeated Pillman at SuperBrawl II. He also challenged Konnan for the WCW United States Heavyweight Championship at Slamboree '96 but lost the match.

He also competed for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) from 2005 to 2006. Liger captained the New Japan team in the TNA 2006 World X Cup Tournament. They defeated Petey Williams, captain of Team Canada at TNA Sacrifice on May 14, 2006 using a Crash Thunder Buster when Williams was distracted by the rest of Team Japan. Liger was eliminated in the X-Cup Gauntlet later in the same night and Team Japan was not able to gain any points in the match as it was won by Team Canada with Team Mexico as runners up.

Liger was the innovator of the Shooting star press. The Jushin Liger gimmick is based on an extremely popular anime superhero, Jushin Liger.

[[Suffolk Coastal]]

CATEGORIES: Suffolk Coastal, 1974 establishments in England

Suffolk Coastal is a local government district in Suffolk, England. Its council is based in Woodbridge. Other towns include Felixstowe. It was organized on April 1, 1974.

[[Guernésiais]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of the Channel Islands, Guernsey

Guernésiais is a Norman language spoken on the Channel island of Guernsey. It is related to the Jèrriais langauge on nearby Jersey island. It is part of the Oïl languages family. Only 2% of the island's people speak the language.

[[No Way Out (2012)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in professional wrestling, WWE No Way Out, 2012 in American television, 2010s in New Jersey

No Way Out (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on June 17, 2012 at the Izod Center in East Rutherford, New Jersey. It was the twelfth No Way Out event held by the WWE.  

[[Luke Harper]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from lung disease, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from New York, People from Rochester, New York, WWE wrestlers

Jon Huber (December 16, 1979 – December 26, 2020) better known by his ring name Luke Harper, was an American professional wrestler. He was a one-time WWE Intercontinental Champion.

Huber also wrestled in the North American independent circuit under the ring name Brodie Lee, working for promotions such as Alpha-1 Wrestling, Chikara, Combat Zone Wrestling, Dragon Gate USA, Jersey All Pro Wrestling and Ring of Honor. He was born in Rochester, New York.

[[Apate]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

In Greek mythology, Apate was the personification of deceit. She was one of the evil spirits released from Pandora's box. Her mother was Nyx, the personification of night. Her father was Erebos, the personification of darkness.

[[Olympe de Gouges]]

CATEGORIES: 1748 births, 1793 deaths, Abolitionists, Executed French people, Feminist writers, French feminists, French playwrights, People executed by decapitation

Marie Olympe de Gouges (born 7 May 1748 - died 3 Nomember 1793) was a French activist, feminist, playwright, and political writer.

She was born in Montauban, France. De Gouges never went to school. She had strong opinions about politics, and she liked to write about her opinions.  

In 1765, when de Gouges was 17, she married a French officer, named Louis Aubrey, who was older than her. They had one child together. Three years later, Louis died of old age. De Gouges was heartbroken, and never married again.

De Gouges wanted to be a writer. So, she moved to Paris, and left her son behind. She made a writer name out of her parents names mixed together.

She used high ranking men to gain power. When she started writing, she wrote plays, political documents, and novels. Some of her work was: Le Mariage inattendu de Cheacute;rubin and Zamore et Mirza ou l'Heureux naufrage.

She started to write documents about human rights, mostly for women.  At the time, France was divided about rights. De Gouges may not have saved her country, but she did give her opinion to this debate.

[[Stanley Milgram]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 1984 deaths, American psychologists, Jewish American scientists, Scientists from New York City

Stanley Milgram (August 15, 1933 – December 20, 1984) was an American social psychologist. He is most famous for his controversial study about obedience to authority figures. In these experiments, Milgram showed that about two out of three people would follow orders of an authority figure to the point of risking the life of, or perhaps even killing, an innocent person.  He got the idea from the Holocaust. He wrote a book about his experiments called Obedience to Authority.

The idea of six degrees of separation comes from Milgram's 1967 small-world experiment. It has been criticized a lot, but in 2008 Microsoft found that the average chain of contacts between users of its '.NET Messenger Service' was 6.6 people. A study published in the January 2014 volume of Computers in Human Behavior found that the average number of acquaintances separating people in unusual jobs is 3.9, and 3.2 for average Facebook users.

[[Theodor W. Adorno]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1969 deaths, 20th century composers, 20th century philosophers, Continental philosophers, German academics, German communists, German composers, German philosophers, German sociologists, Marxism, Music theorists, Refugees from Nazism, Writers from Frankfurt

Theodor W. Adorno (September 11, 1903 – August 6, 1969) was a German sociologist, philosopher, composer, and music theorist. 

He designed the F-scale with other researchers at the University of California. This scale tried to measure "the authoritarian personality", the "F" standing for "Fascist". He wrote about this in the 1950 book The Authoritarian Personality.  He was a Marxist.

[[Nipissing University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Canada, Ontario

Nipissing University is a university in Ontario, Canada. It is located in located in North Bay, Ontario.

[[Typhoon Haiyan]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 disasters in Asia, 2013 in weather, 2010s in China, 2010s in Oceania, 2010s in the Philippines, Disasters in Taiwan, History of Vietnam, Natural disasters in China, November 2013 events, Pacific typhoons

Typhoon Haiyan (or Typhoon Yolanda in the Philippines) is one of the strongest tropical cyclones in history. It formed on November 3, 2013, in the western Pacific Ocean. It began east-southeast of Pohnpei. The storm later hit the Philippines with extremely high winds and a strong storm surge. It has caused major damage in the Visayas. At least 6,241 people died in the storm.  The director of Meteorology at Weather Underground, Jeff Masters, said this could be the strongest tropical system to reach land.  Haiyan's winds were near 195 miles an hour.

[[Cessna 140]]

CATEGORIES: Civil aircraft, Cessna aircraft

The Cessna 140 is a light civilian aircraft. It was designed and built in USA between 1946 and 1950. At least more than 7600 examples were built. It's a single-engine plane with a high wing.

[[Kibera]]

CATEGORIES: Nairobi, Shanty towns

Kibera is a slum in southwest Nairobi, Kenya. It is often called the biggest slum in Africa. Most people in Kibera don't have running water or electricity. Kibera has thirteen villages. Kibera is a very poor slum. It has very bad conditions.

[[Curt Hennig]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2003 deaths, American professional wrestlers, Drug-related deaths, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Minnesota, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni, WWE Hall of Fame

Curtis Michael "Curt" Hennig (March 28, 1958 – February 10, 2003) was an American professional wrestler, manager and color commentator. He is known for competing in the American Wrestling Association (AWA), World Wrestling Federation (WWF), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). He competed under his real name and under the ring name, Mr. Perfect.

He was the son of wrestler Larry "The Axe" Hennig. He was the father to current WWE superstar Joe "Curtis Axel" Hennig. He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Major League Baseball player and longtime friend Wade Boggs in 2007. He is considered to be one of the greatest ever in-ring performers.

[[Kate Bush]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Brit Award winners, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, English rock musicians, Living people, Musicians from Kent, Singers from London

Catherine "Kate" Bush  CBE  (born 30 July 1958) is an English singer-songwriter. In 1978, her first single "Wuthering Heights" was Number 1 in the UK for a month, making her the first woman to have a No.1 in the UK with a song she had written by herself. She has released ten studio albums and 25 UK hit singles.

[[Aethelred I of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 710s deaths, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Aethelred, also Æthelred or Ethelred, († 716) was an early King of Mercia. He succeeded his brother Wulfhere when he died in 675. Like his brother, Wulfhere, he was considered an overlord over other English kings. But he never reached the same political status as Wulfhere. His importance was in his contributions to the church. Aethelred ruled Mercia until his abdication in 704. He stepped down to retire to the monastery at Bardney.

[[Erick Rowan]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Minneapolis, Minnesota, WWE wrestlers

Joseph Ruud (born November 28, 1981 in Minneapolis, Minnesota) better known by his ring name Erick Rowan, is an American professional wrestler. He currentlywhen competes for the WWE where he is a member of The Wyatt Family along with Bray Wyatt, Luke Harper,Daniel Bryan,Eli Cottonwood.

[[R. Budd Dwyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 1987 deaths, People who committed suicide, United States representatives from Pennsylvania, US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Missouri

Robert Budd Dwyer (November 21, 1939 – January 22, 1987) was an American politician. He served from 1971 to 1981 as a Republican member of the Pennsylvania State Senate representing the state's 50th district. He served as the 30th Treasurer of Pennsylvania from January 20, 1981 to January 22, 1987. 

On January 22, 1987, Dwyer called a news conference in the Pennsylvania state capital of Harrisburg where he killed himself in front of the gathered reporters with a .357 caliber revolver. Dwyer's suicide was also broadcast to a wide television audience across the state of Pennsylvania.

In the early 1980s, Pennsylvania discovered its state workers had overpaid federal taxes due to errors in state withholding. Many accounting firms competed for a multimillion-dollar contract to determine compensation to each employee. 

In 1986, Dwyer was convicted of receiving a bribe from a California firm trying to gain the contract. Throughout his trial and after his conviction, he maintained that he was innocent of the charge and that he had been framed. Dwyer was scheduled to be sentenced on those charges on January 23, 1987, the day after his suicide.

[[P. L. Travers]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 1996 deaths, Deaths from epilepsy, Australian stage actors, Australian journalists, British stage actors, British journalists, Writers from Queensland, Writers from London, Actors from Queensland, Actors from London

Pamela Lyndon Travers OBE (Helen Lyndon Goff; 9 August 1899 – 23 April 1996) was an Australian-British writer, actress, and journalist.  

Travers was known for writing the 1933 successful children's book Mary Poppins and the seven sequels that followed. She worked with Walt Disney to make the 1964 movie version of the series, Mary Poppins. 

Travers was born on 9 August 1899 in Maryborough, Queensland. She studied at Normanhurst Girls School. She adopted one son from Ireland, Camillus Travers Hone. He died in 2011. Travers died on 23 April 1996 in her London, England home from an epileptic seizure, aged 96.

[[New York City Marathon]]

CATEGORIES: Running, Sports in New York City, Sports events

The New York City Marathon (called the ING New York City Marathon because it is sponsored by financial company ING Group) is a yearly marathon that goes through all five boroughs of New York City. The distance of the race is 26.219 miles. It starts at the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and ends at Columbus Circle. It takes place on the first Sunday of November. It is one of the largest marathons in the world. 50,304 people ran the marathon in 2013. It has been held every year since 1970 except for 2012, when the race was cancelled because of Hurricane Sandy.

[[Bábism]]

CATEGORIES: Babism, 1844 establishments

Bábism is a religion. It was started in Persia in the middle of the 19th century. The founder was Mirza Ali Muhamed Reza ash-Shirazi. He claimed to be a kind of savior for Shi'a Muslims. He took the title Báb (الباب), meaning "gate". Bábism was originally based on his interpretation of the Qur'an and other Islamic texts. There were similar movements like this, but the Bábí movement tried to break with Islam to start a new religion. It was opposed by the government in Persia, which used laws and violence to destroy it. Bábism continued in exile in the Ottoman Empire. It led to the creation of Azali Babism and the Bahá'í Faith.

[[Roman Reigns]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, People with cancer, American football players, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Florida, WWE wrestlers, People from Pensacola, Florida

Leati Joseph "Joe" Anoa'i (born May 25, 1985 in Pensacola, Florida) better known by his ring name Roman Reigns is a professional wrestler in the WWE. He is a member of the Anoa'i family which is a renowned Samoan-American wrestling dynasty. His religion is Christianity. He was a member of The Shield along with Dean Ambrose and Seth Rollins, until group broke on Raw on the 2nd of June, 2014 before reuniting again in 2019.

[[The Mystery of the Vanished Prince]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 books, Children's books

The Mystery of the Vanished Prince is a children's novel by Enid Blyton. It was published in 1951. It is the ninth book in the Five Find-Outers series. 

The main characters in the story are Fatty, Bets, Pip, Larry and Daisy. The prince Bongahwah is kidnapped and the children solve this mystery.

[[North Platte, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska

North Platte is a city in southwest Nebraska. It had almost 25,000 people as of the 2010 census. The climate of North Platte is semi-arid.

[[Óðr]]

CATEGORIES: Norse mythology

In Norse mythology, Óðr (sometimes written in English as Odr or Od) is a man associated with the goddess Freyja. The Prose Edda and Heimskringla, both by Snorri Sturluson, describe Óðr as Freyja's husband. They also describe him as the father of Freyja's daughter Hnoss. Heimskringla adds that the couple had another daughter together, Gersemi.

Not much else is written about Óðr, except that he often went away on long journeys. Freyja wept when she missed him. Several scholars have suggested that Óðr may just have been another name for the god Odin.When Freyja wept, she wept  tears of red gold, which was very valuable and precious, and this is what she used to give to heroes to do jobs for her so that they had something to bargain with.   

[[Alessandro Striggio]]

CATEGORIES: Italian composers, Renaissance composers, 1536 births, 1592 deaths

Alessandro Striggio (1536–1592) was an Italian composer and Musician of the Renaissance period. His music was well known throughout Europe and he was very influential in England.

[[Garbage (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 1994 establishments in the United States, Alternative rock bands, American rock bands, Musical groups established in 1994, People from Wisconsin

Garbage is an American alternative rock band that started in Wisconsin in 1993. They have released five studio albums. The members are Shirley Manson, Duke Erison, Steve Marker, and Butch Vig.

[[Nick Bockwinkel]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, 2015 deaths, Sportspeople from Saint Paul, Minnesota, WWE Hall of Fame

Nicholas Warren Francis "Nick" Bockwinkel (December 6, 1934 in St. Paul, Minnesota – November 14, 2015 in Las Vegas, Nevada) was an American professional wrestler. 

He was known for competing in American Wrestling Association (AWA). Bockwinkel was known for his technical ability and ring psychology as well as his calm, charismatic and articulate promos which helped distinguish him from many of his contemporaries.

[[First Jewish–Roman War]]

CATEGORIES: Wars and battles of Ancient Rome, 60s, 70

The First Jewish–Roman War was the first and biggest of the Jewish–Roman wars in the Judaea province. It is often called The Great Revolt. It happened from 66–70 AD, and ended with the Empire winning.

It began in 66 AD in Caesarea, where there was religious tension between the Greek and Jewish population. It turned into an anti-taxation protest against Rome. In Caesarea, the Greeks sacrificed animals in front of a Jewish Synagogue. This resulted in the Jews ceasing sacrifices to the Roman Emperor. General Gallus went up against the rebels and lost a crucial battle at Beth Horon in 68 AD.

After this defeat, Emperor Nero replaced Gallus with Vespasian. He crushed the Northern and Southern leadership and the rebellion began to fall apart. Later that year, Nero was deposed. The Roman forces besieged Jerusalem and breached the walls by 70 AD. Once they got into the walls, the Roman soldiers burned and ransacked the city also destroying the Second Temple. The final stronghold at Masada was taken in 73 AD and when the Roman soldiers broke through the defences, they discovered all the defenders had committed suicide. As a result, most of the Jews in the area were scattered or sold into slavery. The final death toll, according to Josephus who was often wrong about numbers, was over one million.

[[Chvrches]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2010s music groups, Musical groups established in 2011, Musical groups from Glasgow, Musical trios, Scottish musical groups, Synth-pop, 21st century establishments in Scotland

Chvrches (pronounced "churches") are a Scottish synthpop band that started in Glasgow in 2011.

They released their first album, The Bones of What You Believe on 20 September 2013. It got very good reviews. It was successful around the world. It reached No.9 in the UK Albums Chart and 12 in the US Billboard 200. In December 2013 NME magazine put The Bones of What You Believe at number 23 on their list of Best Albums Of 2013. 

In 2015 they released their second album Every Open Eye. In 2018 they released their third album Love Is Dead.

In 2014-present they do concerts in Europe.

[[Yasuhiro Nakasone]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2019 deaths, Japanese centenarians, People from Gunma Prefecture, Prime Ministers of Japan, University of Tokyo alumni

Yasuhiro Nakasone was a Japanese politician. He was Prime Minister of Japan from 27 November 1982 to 6 November 1987. Nakasone was a friend of Brian Mulroney, Ronald Reagan, Helmut Kohl, François Mitterrand, Margaret Thatcher, and Mikhail Gorbachev.

He was best known for pushing through the privatization of state-owned companies, and for helping to revitalize Japanese nationalism during and after his term as prime minister. Nakasone was the oldest living Japanese prime minister. He turned 100 on 27 May 2018.

Nakasone died at Tokyo hospital on 29 November 2019 at the age of 101 years and 186 days.

[[Brian Mulroney]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Canada, Canadian lawyers, Irish businesspeople, Irish politicians, Canadian businesspeople, People from Westmount, Quebec, Politicians from Quebec, Leaders of the Opposition (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Quebec

Martin Brian Mulroney CAN (born March 20, 1939) is a Canadians politician. He was the 18th Prime Minister of Canada from September 17, 1984 to June 25, 1993, and was leader of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada from 1983 to 1993.

His tenure as Prime Minister was marked by the introduction of major economic reforms, such as the Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement and the Goods and Services Tax, and the rejection of constitutional reforms such as the Meech Lake Accord and the Charlottetown Accord. Prior to his political career, he was a prominent lawyer and businessman in Montreal.

Mulroney was born on March 20, 1939, in Baie-Comeau, Quebec. He is the son of Irish Canadian Catholic parents, Mary Irene (née O'Shea) and Benedict Martin Mulroney,

[[Jim Leavelle]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from surgical complications, American police officers, People from Dallas, Texas

James Robert "Jim" Leavelle (August 23, 1920 – August 29, 2019) was a Dallas, Texas homicide detective who was escorting Lee Harvey Oswald through the basement of Dallas Police headquarters when Oswald was shot by Jack Ruby.

[[Killing Lincoln (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 movies, American television movies

Killing Lincoln is a 2013 American television movie that was based on Bill O'Reilly's book Killing Lincoln. It was narrated by Tom Hanks. 

The television movie was produced by Ridley Scott and Tony Scott. It stars Billy Campbell and Jesse Johnson. It was released to positive reviews on February 17, 2013. Another television movie based on Bill O'Reilly's Killing Kennedy was released on November 10, 2013 starring Rob Lowe.

[[Bruiser Brody]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 1988 deaths, American football players, American murder victims, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Washington Redskins players

Frank Donald Goodish (June 18, 1946 – July 17, 1988) was an American professional wrestler and football player. He is known for competing in National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) and the American Wrestling Association (AWA).

Before becoming a professional wrestler, Goodish played football at the University of Iowa and West Texas State. He then played in the NFL for the Washington Redskins on their "taxi squad" in 1968 and was cut during second season.

During his time competing in the United States, Goodish was involved in feuds with the likes of Kamala the Ugandan Giant, Abdullah the Butcher, and Jerry Blackwell. During his time in Japan, he tag teamed with Stan Hansen.

[[Santa Ana winds]]

CATEGORIES: Winds, Baja California (state), California

The Santa Ana winds are a kind of wind that happen in Southern California and northern Baja California. They are strong and extremely dry. They start in the mountains and blow towards the Pacific Ocean. They often happen during the autumn and winter. They cause wildfires to become worse.

These winds are a kind of katabatic wind, which means they come from the mountains.

Many people think the name "Santa Ana" comes from the Santa Ana Canyon in Orange County, California.

[[Aethelbald of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of  birth unknown, 750s deaths, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Aethelbald  (also spelled Æthelbald) († 757) was a Mercian nobleman who became the King of Mercia. He brought Mercia back to a position of power not seen since the days of Penda and Wulfhere. Because of his authority and his use of the title "king of the gens Anglorum" his people  began calling themselves English instead of Saxons, Jutes or Angles. But Aethelbald was not a supporter of the Church. He claimed to be Christian but he led a scandalous and wicked lifestyle. 

[[Battle of Prairie Grove]]

CATEGORIES: American Civil War battles, 1860s in Arkansas, 1862 in the United States, December events

The Battle of Prairie Grove was an American Civil War battle. It was fought in Arkansas on December 7, 1862. Neither side won the battle, but the Union army was able to keep control of northwest Arkansas for the rest of the war.

[[Battle of Brandywine]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of the American Revolutionary War, 1777 in the United States, 1770s in Pennsylvania, September events

The Battle of Brandywine was a battle of the American Revolutionary War. It was fought on September 11, 1777. It ended with a British victory, leaving Philadelphia, Pennsylvania damaged and dangerous. 

Date: September 11, 1777

Result: British victory

Year: September 11, 1777

Designated as world heritage site: March 18, 1952

Start date: September 11, 1777

End date: September 11, 1777

[[Covington, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana

Covington is a small city in the U.S. state of Louisiana. It is the parish seat of St. Tammany Parish.

[[Long-Allen Bridge (Shreveport)]]

CATEGORIES: Shreveport, Louisiana, Bridges in the United States, Buildings and structures in Louisiana

Long-Allen Bridge (Shreveport) is a truss bridge in Shreveport, Louisiana.

[[Camacho (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Florida

Tevita Fifita (born May 7, 1983) is a Tongan-American professional wrestler. He is best known for his time in the WWE where he competed under the ring name, Camacho.

His father also worked for the WWE (then WWF) under the ring name Haku.

[[Ouachita Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, 1807 establishments in the Territory of Orleans

Ouachita Parish (Paroisse d'Ouachita) is a parish in the U.S. state of Louisiana. Its parish seat is Monroe. It was created in 1807 by the state government. As of the 2010 census, 253,720 people lived there.

[[West Richland, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Washington (U.S. state), Benton County, Washington

West Richland is a city in Benton County, Washington, United States.

[[West Monroe, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana

West Monroe is the second-largest city in Ouachita Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Hammond, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana

Hammond is the largest city in Tangipahoa Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Crowley, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana

Crowley is the parish seat of Acadia Parish, Louisiana, United States. Over 60% of the population are non-Hispanic whites.

[[Nicola Pfund]]

CATEGORIES: Swiss people, Swiss writers, 1960 births, Living people, Bloggers

Nicola Pfund, (born November 7, 1960 in Sorengo) is a Swiss Italian writer, blogger and journalist.

[[Hesperides]]

CATEGORIES: Nymphs

The Hesperides (Ἑσπερίδες) are nymphs in Greek mythology. They look after a peaceful garden in the far west of the world. The garden is located near Cyrene (or Benghazi) in Libya or the Atlas Mountains further west. In the Ancient Greek view of the world, this is at the edge of Oceanus, the world-ocean. The nymphs are said to be the daughters of Hesperus.

[[Stochastic process]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

A Stochastic process is a mathematical description of random events that occur one after another. It is possible to order these events according to the time at which they occur.

This can be used to model such things as stock market and exchange rate changes, or medical information like a patient's EKG, EEG, blood pressure or temperature.

[[Jabberwocky]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century British poems, Books by Lewis Carroll

[[Rupert Sheldrake]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, English writers, British biologists, Parapsychologists, Living people

Alfred Rupert Sheldrake (born 28 June 1942) is an English author. From 1967 to 1973 he was a biochemist and cell biologist at Cambridge University., Then he went to work in India from 1974 to 1978. His first book, A New Science of Life, was published in 1981. It is about his a theory called  "morphic resonance". He gave a TEDx talk in 2013 on his book The Science Delusion that was banned. In 2009 Adam Rutherford, the deputy editor of a scientific journal called Nature, wrote in the Guardian about him and his book A New Science of Life. He said "don't read this book, it will make you stupider". He is an Anglican. He is married to Jill Purce.

[[Ridgeway, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Minnesota

Ridgeway is an unincorporated community (Class Code U6) in Winona County, Minnesota. It is at latitude 43.912 and longitude -91.56 (Ridgeway Panoramio Photos). The elevation is 1,342 feet. Ridgeway is on the Witoka U.S. Geological Survey Map.

[[City-Haus]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 establishments in Europe, 1970s establishments in Germany, Skyscrapers in Frankfurt

City-Haus is a skyscraper in the Westend-Süd district of Frankfurt, Germany. It has 42 stories, and is 142 tall. It was built from 1971 to 1974 and designed by architects Johannes Krahn and Richard Heil. Today it is part of the headquarters of DZ Bank.

[[Deutsche Bank Twin Towers]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in Europe, 1980s establishments in Germany, Skyscrapers in Frankfurt

The Deutsche Bank Twin Towers (also called Deutsche Bank Headquarters; Zwillingstürme der Deutschen Bank or Hauptverwaltung Deutsche Bank AG), are a pair of skyscrapers in Frankfurt, Germany. It is located in the city's Westend-Süd district. The two towers are the same design ("twin towers"). They are 155 tall. They serve as the headquarters for the Deutsche Bank. This is the largest bank in Germany. The twin towers are also sometimes nicknamed debit and credit (German: Soll und Haben), which are two aspects of every financial transaction. 

[[Ship of the line]]

CATEGORIES: Warships, Ships

A Ship of the line was a kind of warship. Most ships of the line were built between the 17th and 19th century. At that time, battles were fought by many such ships, which sailed in a line. At first, such ships were sailing boats, but from about the 1840s, steam-driven ships of the line were built. The steam-powered ships of the line were still made of wood. From about 1859, the Ironclad warship replaced them. 

At that time, ships had cannons. Larger ships had room for more cannons, and were therefore more likely to hit the enemy. Today, ship designs are noticeably different, as cannons are no longer used.

[[University of Salamanca]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Europe, Salamanca

The University of Salamanca (Universidad de Salamanca) is a Spanish higher education institution. It is in the town of Salamanca, west of Madrid, in the autonomous community of Castile and León. It was established in 1134 and given the Royal charter of establishment by King Alfonso IX in 1218.

The University of Salamanca was one of 100 finalists for the 12 Treasures of Spain in 2007.

[[Trou aux Cerfs]]

CATEGORIES: Volcanoes of Africa, Geography of Mauritius

Trou aux Cerfs (also known as Murr's Volcano) is a dormant volcano in Curepipe, Mauritius. It is 605 high and has a well-defined cone and crater. The crater has been alternately described as 300 and 350 meters in diameter, and is 80 meters deep.

[[Battery recycling]]

CATEGORIES: Recycling, Batteries

Many batteries are thrown away in regular waste after they have been used. Battery recycling is a name of the process of separately collecting such batteries so that they can be disposed of properly. Batteries contain metals such as lead, copper or zinc. In the form that is used in the batteries, these metals are very harmful to the environment - most are toxic. Collecting the batteries allows the extraction of some of the metals, which can then be re-used, not thrown away. The parts that cannot be extracted or re-used are disposed of in a way that is less harmful to the environment. For this reason, many countries have rules that say that a given percentage of all batteries must be re-cycled. 

[[American Hustle]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 crime movies, 2013 drama movies, 2010s crime drama movies, Adultery in movies, American crime drama movies, BAFTA Award winning movies, English-language movies, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Histrionic personality disorder in fiction, Movies based on real life events, Movies composed by Danny Elfman, Movies directed by David O. Russell, Movies set in New Jersey, Movies set in New York, Movies set in the 1970s, Screen Actors Guild Award winners

American Hustle is an American crime drama movie directed by David O. Russell. It is based on the FBI ABSCAM operation of the late 1970s in Camden, New Jersey. It stars Christian Bale, Amy Adams, Bradley Cooper, Jeremy Renner, Jennifer Lawrence, Louis C.K., Michael Peña, and Robert De Niro. It was composed by Danny Elfman. It was released on December 18, 2013.

[[King's shilling]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United Kingdom, British Army, Royal Navy

The King's shilling (or the Queen's shilling if the monarch is female) was the name given to a shilling that was given to soldiers who joined the British Army and the Royal Navy as a reward for enlisting. The word is often used when talking about the 17th and 18th centuries, but the word has been used since the English Civil War and is still used today.

Someone who said they would join the army was given the coin, but could give it back before they made a promise to a judge. Once the promise was made, they were given more money. The amount of money they were given changed over the years. In 1812, a new soldier was given £23, 17 shillings and six pence. This money was a lot, which persuaded many people to join the army, but the money was spent very quickly on uniform. Because this money was a lot, some people joined and deserted lots of times to get the money each time. One man was hanged in 1787 for doing this 47 times.

[[Villavicencio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Colombia, 1840 establishments, 19th-century establishments in Colombia, 1840s establishments in South America

Villavicencio is a city in Colombia. It is the largest city and the capital of the Department of Meta. Villavicencio is on the great Colombian–Venezuelan plain called Los Llanos. In 2005, the population was 384,131. the city was founded as in 1840. The city became the capital of the department in 1959.

[[5 Seconds of Summer]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s music groups, 2011 establishments in Australia, Australian pop music groups, Australian rock bands, Musical groups established in 2011, Musical groups from Sydney, Musical quartets, Pop rock bands

5 Seconds of Summer (abbreviated 5SOS) is a pop-rock band from Quakers Hill, a Western suburb of Sydney, Australia. The band has 4 members: Calum Hood (bass guitar, vocals), Michael Clifford (guitar, vocals), Luke Hemmings (lead vocals, guitar), and Ashton Irwin (drums, vocals). Luke, Calum, and Michael all attended Norwest Christian College in Riverstone, NSW. Ashton, however, attended Richmond High School in Richmond, NSW. Michael came up with the name '5 Seconds of Summer'. Calum writes most of their music and they often sing about love or according to Ashton, life. The band have talked about being heavily influenced by famous rock bands such as Green Day, All Time Low, Blink-182, and Nirvana. In an interview, they stated that their music was "Basically the love child of all their favorite bands". They have also said that their hero is Billie Joe Armstrong, the lead singer of Green Day. They supported Hot Chelle Rae on their 2012 "Whatever" tour. They toured with One Direction for their TMH and WWA tours and gained international fame. They now have their own tour "Rock Out With Your Socks Out" (ROWYSO). Their second headline tour started in February 2016, "Sounds Live Feels Live" (SLFL). The band has released four albums, 5 Seconds of Summer, Sounds Good Feel Good, Youngblood and Calm, in that order.

[[Sea breeze]]

CATEGORIES: Winds

A sea breeze (or onshore wind) is a wind from the sea that develops over land near coasts. It is formed by increasing temperature differences between the land and water; these create a pressure minimum over the land due to its relative warmth, and forces higher pressure, cooler air from the sea to move inland.A sea breeze or onshore breeze is any wind that blows from a large body of water toward or onto a landmass; it develops due to differences in air pressure created by the differing heat capacities of water and dry land.

[[Psapp]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s music groups, Musical groups from London

Psapp is an English band that started in 2002. The members are Galia Durant and Carim Clasmann. They have released four albums.

[[Grandfather paradox]]

CATEGORIES: Time travel, Logical paradoxes

The grandfather paradox is an unexplainable situation regarding time travel. It is one type of temporal paradox (paradox involving time).

It is a proposed physical paradox of time travel first described by the science fiction writer Nathaniel Schachner in his short story Ancestral Voices, and by René Barjavel in his 1943 book Le Voyageur Imprudent (Future Times Three). 

The paradox asks what happens if you were to travel back in time and killed your grandfather. Your grandfather would be dead, meaning you would never have been born, which means you could not have been alive to go back in time and kill your grandfather, but that means your grandfather would be alive and you would be born and so on with seemingly no answer. 

Since, as far as we know, time travel of this kind is not possible, the paradox is not one we will face in practice.

[[Samuelsons]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish musical groups, 1960s music groups

Samuelsons was a country and gospel group from Sweden, between the 1960s and 80's. It consisted of the brothers Rolf (1939–1981), Kjell (born 1942), Olle (born 1950) and Jard Samuelson (born 1952).

In December 1966 the first album was released in the USA, and was awarded three stars by Billboard. They soon became popular throughout Europe, Canada and the USA.

[[M. S. Subbulakshmi]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2004 deaths, Indian singers, Tamil people

Madurai Shanmukhavadivu Subbulakshmi (6 September 1916 – 11 December 2004) was a Tamil Carnatic singer and actress. She sung in lots of different languages. Her first performance was at the Madras Music Academy. Her first recording was released when she was 10 years old. Her first film was Sevasadanam. She sung in it and acted. It was released in 1938. In 1997 her husband Kalki Sadasivam died. After this she didn't perform anymore. She was the first ever musician to get the Bharat Ratna, an India's highest civillian award. In September 2013 a statue of her was shown for the first time at Sri Shanmukhananda Chandrasekarendra Saraswati auditorium. She died on December 11, 2004 at the age of 88. 

[[Ertharin Cousin]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Ambassadors of the United States, Politicians from Chicago, United Nations officials

Ertharin Cousin (born 1957) is, since 2012, the twelfth Executive Director of the United Nations World Food Programme.

On June 9, 2009, Cousin was nominated by President Barack Obama to become United States Ambassador to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture.

In November 2013 she was in Time magazine's list of "The 13 Gods of Food".

She was born in Chicago.

[[Chinatown, London]]

CATEGORIES: City of Westminster

Chinatown in London is in Soho area in the West End. It has  Chinese-run businesses. These include restaurants, bakeries, supermarkets and souvenir shops.

[[A.J. Styles]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, American Christians, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from North Carolina, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Allen Neal Jones (born June 2, 1977) better known by his ring name AJ Styles or A.J. Styles, and even by his nickname The Phenomenal (One), is an American professional wrestler. He is currently wrestling for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). He is best known for working for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) where he along with James Storm and Jeff Jarrett were the only wrestlers to have worked continuously for the promotion since its first broadcast on June 19, 2002.

He was the first wrestler to complete the TNA Triple Crown Championship when he won the TNA X Division, NWA World Tag Team, and NWA World Heavyweight Championships. He is also the first wrestler to complete it more than once when he completed it five more times.

On December 8, 2013, it was announced by TNA that Styles' contract negotiations had failed. He was later released from the company and will be a free agent on December 17.

[[King David Hotel]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Jerusalem, Hotels

The King David Hotel is in Jerusalem. It s the official hotel for visiting heads of state, important diplomats and other guests of the government of Israel. The hotel was established in 1931 by the rich Jewish-Egyptian banker Ezra Mosseri. 

[[Israel Railway Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in Haifa

Israel Railway Museum (מוזיאון רכבת ישראל) is the national trains museum of Israel. The museum is located in the east train station of Haifa. The station was established in 1892 by the Ottoman government for the Hejaz train to Mecca. It was the first train station in Palestine and the Land of Israel. In the station there is a Turkish monument for the train.

[[Israel National Museum of Science, Technology, and Space]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in Haifa

Israel National Museum of Science, Technology, and Space (מדעטק - המוזיאון הלאומי למדע, טכנולוגיה וחלל he) is Israel's national museum of science, technology, and space. It is located in Haifa. It occupies the old Technion building.

[[Berserker]]

CATEGORIES: Norse mythology

Berserkers (or berserks) were a special kind of Norse warrior who were widely feared.  Old Norse literature said they fought in a wild, trance-like fury. This later gave us the English word berserk. 

Many Old Norse sources say that berserkers were real. Most historians believe that berserkers worked themselves into a rage before battle. Others think they might have eaten drugged foods. The Ynglinga saga said they charged their enemy without any armour. Also that they were as mad as wolves. They could kill the enemy with a single blow of their sword while neither fire nor iron could hurt them.

[[Ghost in the Shell]]

CATEGORIES: Anime, Manga

Ghost in the Shell is a Japanese franchise of different media. It was originally published as a manga series, written and illustrated by Masamune Shirow. It told the story of a fictional counter-cyberterrorist organisation. It has been made into a series of anime television series and movies, and a series of video games.

[[Division of Kingsford Smith]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Kingsford Smith is an Australian Electoral Division in the state of New South Wales. The division is named after Sir Charles Kingsford Smith, the first pilot to fly across the Pacific Ocean. The Kingsford Smith International Airport (Sydney International), and the suburb of Kingsford, which are both in the division, are also named after him. The division was set up in 1949.

The division covers the south-eastern suburbs of Sydney, on the north shore of Botany Bay, and the coast of the Tasman Sea. It includes Coogee, Randwick, Maroubra, Mascot, Botany, Malabar and Kensington.

[[No Way Out (2008)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 in professional wrestling, WWE No Way Out, 2000s in Nevada

No Way Out (2008) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on February 17, 2008 at the Thomas & Mack Center in Las Vegas, Nevada. It was the tenth No Way Out event held by the WWE.  

[[Mars, Incorporated]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies, 1911 establishments in the United States

Mars Incorporated is a chocolate manufacturer. They also make pet food. Brands include Uncle Ben's rice, Wrigley's, 3 Musketeers and M&M's. They employ 70,000 people worldwide.cnc turning program

[[Mozarabic Rite]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Catholicism

The Mozarabic Rite is a form of worship used by the Roman Catholic Church. It is used in Spain. This rite started in the 1st century.

[[Opelousas, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana, Former United States state capitals, Parish seats in Louisiana, 1720 establishments, 18th-century establishments in Louisiana, 1720s establishments in North America, Acadiana

Opelousas is the parish seat of St. Landry Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Cloutierville, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana

Cloutierville is an unincorporated community in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Thomas Wyatt]]

CATEGORIES: 1503 births, 1542 deaths, English poets

Sir Thomas Wyatt (1503–1542) was an English poet and diplomat. He gets credit for bringing the sonnet into the English language. A sonnet is a special type of poem with 14 lines. He was "the Renaissance ideal—soldier, statesman, courtier, lover, scholar, and poet.”

[[Chatham House]]

CATEGORIES: Think tanks, Organisations based in London, 1920 establishments in the United Kingdom

Chatham House, also known as the Royal Institute of International Affairs, is a London think tank. It is a non-profit, non-governmental organization. It analyses and promote the understanding of major international issues and current affairs. 

Chatham House is one of the world's leading organizations in this area.  It takes its name from its premises, a Grade I listed 18th-century house in St. James's Square, once occupied by three British prime ministers, including William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham.

In a recent report, Chatham House is ranked the second most influential think tank in the world after the Brookings Institution, and the world's most influential non-US think tank. In 2009, Chatham House was also named the top non-US think tank by Foreign Policy magazine.

Chatham House has had distinguished presidents from each of the three main political parties at Westminster: Sir John Major, former UK Prime Minister, Lord Ashdown (1941-2018), former EU Special Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina and former leader of the Liberal Democrats, and Baroness Scotland, the former Attorney General.

[[Salem]]

Salem is the name of several places:

[[Sri Lankan Civil War]]

CATEGORIES: Sri Lankan Civil War

The Sri Lankan Civil War was a war fought in the island of Sri Lanka. It started on 23 July 1983. There was a revolt against the government by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (also called the Tamil Tigers-தமிழீழ விடுதலைப் புலிகள்.). They fought to create an independent state for Tamil people called Tamil Eelam in the north and the east of the island.

The war lasted for 26 years.  A ceasefire in the early 2000s broke down and the fighting began again.  The Sri Lankan military defeated the Tamil Tigers in May 2009.  The civil war caused a terrible setback to the social, cultural, and economic life of the country.  Tens of thousands of people were killed.

[[Calaisa]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish musical groups, Malmo

Calaisa is a quartet from the town of Malmö in Sweden. It consists of the systers, Caisa and Lisa Troedsson and the sisters Malin and Anna Törnquist. The band participated at Melodifestivalen 2008 with the song If I Could, which was knocked out during the Karlskrona competition on 1 March 2008.

Calaisa has released several albums.

[[Pope Sergius III]]

CATEGORIES: 911 deaths, 860 births, Italian popes

Pope Sergius III (c. 860 − 14 April 911) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 904 to 911. He was born in Italy. He is buried in St. Peter's Basilica.

[[Ajax, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana

Ajax is an unincorporated community in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[The Wurzels]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 establishments in England, 1960s British music groups, 1970s British music groups, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, Folk music groups, Musical groups established in 1966, People from Somerset

The Wurzels (originally Adge Cutler and the Wurzels but renamed after Cutler's death) are a British Scrumpy and Western band. 

The Somerset-based band is best known for their 1976 number one hit Combine Harvester, and number three hit I Am A Cider Drinker based on the song Una Paloma Blanca. They have lasted over 40 years, and still perform to this day.

[[New Iberia, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana, Acadiana, 1779 establishments in North America, 18th-century establishments in Louisiana

New Iberia is a city in Louisiana, in the United States. it is the eleventh-largest city in the state. It is the parish seat of Iberia Parish, Louisiana. It is the main city of the New Iberia Micropolitan Statistical Area, which includes all of Iberia Parish.

[[Scott, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 establishments in the United States, Cities in Louisiana, Acadiana

Scott is a municipality in Lafayette Parish, Louisiana, United States. It is the second largest municipality in the state. The population grew to over 8,000 according to the 2010 census results.

Scott is a suburb of Lafayette and is part of the Lafayette Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Derry, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana

Derry is an unincorporated community in Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana, United States. It is on Louisiana Highway 1.

It is the closest town to Magnolia Plantation, a National Historic Landmark.

There is an abandoned school next to the St. Matthew Baptist Church off Louisiana Highway 119 near Derry.

[[Ingleton]]

Ingleton may refer to:

[[Adour]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Occitanie, Nouvelle-Aquitaine

The Adour (Aturri, Ador) is a river in southwestern France that flows through the Occitanie and Nouvelle-Aquitaine regions.

It rises in the Pyrenees, at the Arbizon mountain, and flows into the Atlantic Ocean (Bay of Biscay) near Bayonne.

[[Emilia Rydberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Singers from Stockholm

Emilia Rydberg, also known as Emilia Mitiku or more simply Emilia (born 5 January 1978, Stockholm, Sweden) is a Swedish pop and soul singer, mostly known for her worldwide hit single, "Big Big World".

[[Michel Phaneuf]]

CATEGORIES: Writers from Quebec, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Michel Phaneuf is a Canadian columnist who writes about wine. Since 1981, 30 editions of his Guide du vin have been published and have sold almost a million copies.

He holds a bachelor in communication from the University of Quebec in Montreal.

The 2010 edition of his guide won a Gourmand World Cookbook Awards. His guide is now copublished with Nadia Fournier.

Since 2007, Michel Phaneuf has suffered health issues: heart problems and Parkinson's disease. 

[[Dukkha]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhist terminology

Dukkha is an important concept in Buddhism. It is usually translated as "suffering". It is about understanding why people are unhappy. It is one of the Four Noble Truths.

[[National Library of Indonesia]]

CATEGORIES: National libraries in Asia, Jakarta, 1980 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in Indonesia, Buildings and structures in Indonesia

The National Library of Indonesia is in Jakarta, the capital city of Indonesia. It is the country's national library.

It was started on 17 May 1980. By law, a copy of all printed works published in Indonesia must be given to the National Library.

[[Hemliga byrån]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish pop music groups, Örebro

Hemliga byrån was a Swedish synthpop group with Swedish writers Anders Jacobsson and Sören Olsson. One of their most famous songs, Hej, hej, hemskt mycket hej. It became a 1987 Svensktoppen hit. Another famous song was Hjärtattack. They also acted as house band for the TV series Trollkontroll in 1990. The series features a music video in each episode.

[[Busted]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s British music groups, 2005 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, British boy bands, British pop rock bands, Musical groups established in 2002, Musical groups disestablished in 2005, Musical groups from Essex, 2002 establishments in England

Busted are an English pop rock band from Southend-on-Sea, Essex. They started in 2002. The original members were James Bourne, Matt Willis and Charlie Simpson. All of them did singing. Simpson played keyboard, piano, harmonica, and drums. Bourne played guitar. Willis played drums. They released their first single "What I Go to School For" in the UK in September 2002 and it reached No.3. That month they released their first album, Busted. It reached No.2 in the UK Albums Chart. On 17 November 2003 they released their second studio album, A Present for Everyone. It went straight to No.2. In December 2004 Simpson left to focus on his band Fightstar. On January 14 the band broke up.

The band had five UK No.1s between 2002 and 2004. One of the No.1s was as part of Band Aid 20's 2004 "Do They Know It's Christmas?" single. In February 2004 the band got Best British Breakthrough Act and Best Pop Act at that year's BRIT Awards.

From 19 to 22 September 2013 Willis and Bourne performed with McFly at McFly's four 10th anniversary concerts at the Royal Albert Hall as "McBusted". In 2014 McBusted toured the UK.

[[Kafir]]

CATEGORIES: Islam, Pejoratives, Slurs

A kaffir is someone who does not believe in God according to Islam. It is the most common description used in the Qur'an for non-believers. They are also mentioned especially in the Quran Sura Kafirun.

[[Sink]]

CATEGORIES: Home

A sink is a place for washing. In homes, sinks are in kitchens and bathrooms. A sink has a bowl or basin, one or two taps, and a drain. Water comes out of the taps; the bowl holds the water. The drain lets the water flow out.  Some sinks may have sprays to clean things faster. Some sinks have a soap dispenser. Water filters can be put on a sink.

[[Angel Haze]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, African American musicians, American rap musicians, American feminists, LGBT musicians, Living people

Raykeea Angel Wilson (born July 10, 1992), better known by their stage name Angel Haze, is an American rapper. BBC put them at number three in their Sound of 2013 list. 

They released the first single from their album, "Echelon (It's My Way)" on August 28, 2013.

They released their first mixtape on November 27, 2009. Since then they have released five more mixtapes.

Haze performed at 2013's Reading Festival and Leeds Festival.

On October 22, 2013 Haze released a remix they made of "Same Love" by Macklemore.

Haze's first album Dirty Gold was released on December 30, 2013.

[[Taulihawa]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nepal

Taulīhawā (officially called Kapilvastu Nagarpalika) is a city in southern Nepal. It is the capital of the Kapilvastu District, in the Lumbini Zone.

[[Hiroshi Tanahashi]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Japanese professional wrestlers, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni, People from Gifu Prefecture

Hiroshi Tanahashi (born November 13, 1976) is a Japanese professional wrestler who is currently working for New Japan Pro Wrestling.

During his time in NJPW, he has become a six-time IWGP Heavyweight Champion. He shares the record for most reigns as IWGP Heavyweight Champion with Tatsumi Fujinami and also holds the record for most successful defenses with eleven during his fifth reign as champion.

[[Pnau]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s music groups, Electronic music bands, Australian pop music groups, Musical duos, Musical groups from Sydney

Pnau is an Australian dance music group. There are two members: a singer, Nick Littlemore, and a guitarist, Peter Mayes. They come from Sydney. Their first album, Sambanova (1999), won the ARIA Award for Best Dance Release, and was very successful in the Australian music charts.

Their third album, Pnau, was also a success with critics. They were signed to a record label under musician Elton John after he listed to this album.

Littlemore has also achieved success with his side-project Empire of the Sun.

[[National Library of Malaysia]]

CATEGORIES: National libraries in Asia, 1956 establishments in Asia, Kuala Lumpur, 20th century establishments in Malaysia

The National Library of Malaysia is in Kuala Lumpur, the capital city of Malaysia. It is the country's national library. It was founded in 1956.

[[Azealia Banks]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, American rap musicians from New York

Azealia Amanda Banks (born May 31, 1991) is an American rapper, singer, and songwriter. She was born in Harlem, New York City. On November 9, 2008 she made a Myspace account and released her first song, "Gimme a Chance" on it as "Miss Bank$". Later that year she was signed by XL Recordings. In 2011 Banks was chosen by NME as No.1 of their Cool List of the year.

Her first album Broke with Expensive Taste is going to be released in January 2014. Her second album, Fantasea II: The Second Wave is going to be released July 2013.  

On December 6, 2011 Banks' first single "212" was released. On May 28, 2012 her first EP 1991 was released in the UK. It was released in the US the next day. A video for the song "Van Vogue" was released. On July 11, 2012 a 19-song mixtape called Fantasea was released for free download. Banks' second single "Esta Noche" was going to be released September 25, 2012, but a day before this was cancelled because the producer Munchi said she "stole" the track.

On December 4, 2012 the single "Liquorice" was released.

Banks made a dark purple lipstick with MAC called "Yung Rapunxel". It was marketed online from September 6 to 20, 2012.

On January 10, 2014 Banks released a remix of "Partition" by Beyoncé Knowles she made with Busta Rhymes.

[[National Library, Singapore]]

CATEGORIES: National libraries in Asia, Buildings and structures in Singapore, 2005 establishments in Asia, 2000s establishments in Singapore

The National Library (国家图书馆, Perpustakaan Negara, தேசிய நூலகம்) is in Singapore. The new 16-story replaces the old National Library at Stamford Road. The building was designed by T.R. Hamzah & Ken Yeang and is the headquarters of the National Library Board.

The library was moved to new building in 2005 under the National Library Board known as the Lee Kong Chian Reference Library and also Central Public Library.

[[Listening]]

CATEGORIES: Cognition, Human communication

Listening is not quite the same thing as hearing. Hearing is a biological process that can be scientifically explained, but listening is a psychological process of what happens to sounds as we interpret and use them. It is a cognitive activity.

In psychology, speech is part of pragmatics, a field which deals with signs and their interpretation. The signs in question are called "speech acts".

To listen means to try and understand what has been said. Listening is often one side of a conversation. Asking questions helps one understand what has been said. A subject can be better understood by asking the correct questions.

Listening differs from obeying. Parents often say to a disobedient child that he "didn't listen to me", meaning, he heard but didn't do as was suggested.

Listening also applies to sounds, not just language. It is active hearing. We hear a sound, and know what it means. This applies to animals as well. Cats list in the long grass for the little sounds that mice make. So perhaps a better description of listening is "deliberate hearing to get the meaning of sounds".

[[Cookies 'N' Beans]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish musical groups, Musical groups established in 2003

Cookies 'N' Beans are a Swedish country music group consisting of Frida Öhrn, Linda Ström and Charlotte Centervall. The girls started the group in 2003 and in 2007 the group released their first coveralbum Tales from a Trailor Trash Soul. They participated in Melodifestivalen 2009, the Swedish national selection for the Eurovision Song Contest 2009 in Russia, with the song "What If", and again in Melodifestivalen 2013 for the Eurovision Song Contest 2013 in Malmö, with their song "Burning Flags". The group's fourth album, The First Steps, was released on 13 March 2013.  The group has also appeared on several Swedish television shows such as Allsång på Skansen and Lotta på Liseberg singing their songs after appearing in Melodifestivalen the first time in 2009.

[[No Way Out (2007)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in professional wrestling, Sports in Los Angeles, WWE No Way Out, 2007 in American television, 2000s in Los Angeles, California, 2007 in California, February events

No Way Out (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on February 18, 2007 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. It was the ninth No Way Out event held by the WWE.  

[[No Way Out (2006)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in professional wrestling, Sports in Baltimore, Maryland, WWE No Way Out, 2006 in American television, 2000s in Baltimore, Maryland

No Way Out (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on February 19, 2006 at the 1st Mariner Arena in Baltimore, Maryland. It was the eighth No Way Out event held by the WWE.  

[[Cultural relativism]]

CATEGORIES: Cultural anthropology

Cultural relativism is an idea in anthropology and it sees all cultures as equal. It should be studied without one’s own beliefs in mind, which would affect our understanding of that culture. An anthropologist named Franz Boas created the idea of cultural relativism in 1887, but the concept Boas created did not receive its name until Alain Locke gave Boas’s concept the name in 1924. This concept is now accepted by anthropologists around the world.

[[Hohentwiel]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Baden-Württemberg, Mountains of Germany, Volcanoes of Europe

Hohentwiel is an extinct volcano in the Hegau region of Baden-Württemberg in southern Germany. It is west of the city of Singen and 30 from Lake Constance. It is tall but is hidden.

[[No Way Out (2005)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in professional wrestling, Sports in Pittsburgh, WWE No Way Out, 2005 in Pennsylvania, February events, 21st century in Pittsburgh

No Way Out (2005) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on February 20, 2005 at the Mellon Arena in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It was the seventh No Way Out event held by the WWE.  

[[Kapilavastu]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhism

Kapilavastu (Kapilavatthu) is the name of the place where Gautama Buddha grew up, and where his family home was located. It was located in the ancient Shakya kingdom, which is today part of Nepal. The exact location of Kapilavastu is not known; it is assumed to be about 10 kilometers to the west of Lumbini, where Buddha was born.

Buddha spent the first 29 years of his life in the area of Kapilavastu.

[[The Marshall Mathers LP 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums, Eminem albums

The Marshall Mathers LP 2 is the eighth studio album by American rapper Eminem. It was released on November 5, 2013.

The album is a sequel to Eminem's most praised work, The Marshall Mathers LP (2000). Production for The Marshall Mathers LP 2 took place from 2012 to 2013. Dr. Dre and Rick Rubin were the executive producers.

Music critics mostly gave the album positive reviews. Praise went to Eminem's technical rapping skill and production choices. The Marshall Mathers LP 2 was Eminem's best-reviewed album at Metacritic since The Eminem Show (2002).

[[Ecgfrith of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 796 deaths, Unexplained deaths, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Ecgfrith († 796) was the King of Mercia from July to December 796. He was the son of Offa, the King of Mercia, and Cynethryth. In 787 he was crowned King of Mercia while his father still ruled. This is the first known consecration of an English king. No doubt it was Offs's imitation of the consecration of Charlemagne's sons by the pope in 781. It was a practical way to recognize Ecgfrith as heir to the Mercian kingdom. Offa continued to rule and maintained all the power himself. 

Ecgfrith was succeeded as king by Coenwulf. This was probably because Offa had arranged the murder of nearer relatives in order to eliminate any rivals to Ecgfrith. Alcuin of York, an English deacon and scholar wrote: 

When his father died in July of 796 Ecgfrith was king for only 141 days. The cause of his death is unknown but may not have been natural.

[[Macintosh 128K]]

CATEGORIES: Computers, Apple hardware

The Macintosh 128K, originally released as the Apple Macintosh, is the original Apple Macintosh personal computer. 

[[Bactrosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Asia, Cretaceous dinosaurs, Hadrosauridae

Bactrosaurus was a hadrosaur from the Upper Cretaceous about 70 milion years ago. This plant-eating dinosaur. was found in  the Gobi Desert of China. It was about 6 metres (20 feet) long and 2 metres (6.6 feet) high when standing on all fours. It weighed 1.1 to 1.5 tonnes (2,400 to 3,300 pounds).

Research showed that this genus and its near relatives were unusually prone to cancer. The reason for this is not known.

[[Patrik Eliáš]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Czech ice hockey players, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, Olympic bronze medalists, Stanley Cup champions, American Hockey League players

Patrik Eliáš (born April 13, 1976) is a former Czech professional ice hockey winger that played for the New Jersey Devils of the National Hockey League (NHL) where he was the alternate captain.

[[Division of Lindsay]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Lindsay is an Australian Electoral Division in the state of New South Wales. It was set up in 1984 and is named after Sir Norman Lindsay, the Australian artist, writer and sculptor. 

The division is in the outer western suburbs of Sydney, and includes Cambridge Park, Cambridge Gardens, Castlereagh, Claremont Meadows, Cranebrook, Emu Plains, Glenmore Park, Jamisontown, Kingswood, Leonay, Llandilo, North St Marys, Oxley Park, Penrith, Regentville, St Marys, South Penrith, Werrington, Werrington County, Werrington Downs and parts of Agnes Banks, Luddenham and Wallacia.

[[No Way Out (2002)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 in professional wrestling, Sports in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, WWE No Way Out, 2002 in the United States, 21st century in Wisconsin

No Way Out (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on February 17, 2002 at the Bradley Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It was the fourth No Way Out event held by the WWF.  

[[No Way Out (2001)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 in professional wrestling, WWE No Way Out, 2001 in American television, 2000s in Nevada

No Way Out (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on February 25, 2001 at the Thomas & Mack Center in Las Vegas, Nevada. It was the third No Way Out event held by the WWF.  

[[No Way Out (2000)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in professional wrestling, WWE No Way Out, Sports in Hartford, Connecticut, 2000 in the United States, History of Hartford, Connecticut

No Way Out (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on February 27, 2000 at the Hartford Civic Center in Hartford, Connecticut. It was the first No Way Out event held under the "No Way Out" name, although it was preceded in 1998 by an event named No Way Out of Texas.  

[[Bell River (New South Wales)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of New South Wales

The Bell River is a river in the central west of New South Wales, Australia. It is part of the Murray-Darling basin and flows into the Macquarie River.

[[Burrendong Dam]]

CATEGORIES: Dams, Buildings and structures in New South Wales, Hydropower, Lakes of Australia, Power plants, 1967 establishments in Oceania, 1960s establishments in Australia

The Burrendong Dam is a major dam on the Macquarie River in New South Wales, Australia. It is upriver of Wellington in the central west region. It is an embankment style gated dam.  The wall is filled with rock and has a clay core. The dam was built and is used for flood mitigation, irrigation, water supply and hydro-electric power generation. The dam creates Lake Burrendong and is filled by the Macquarie and Cudgegong rivers and Meroo Creek.

The lake formed by the dam, named Lake Burrendong, is popular for fishing and general tourism.

[[Tenon saw]]

CATEGORIES: Woodworking tools, Cutting tools

A tenon saw is a kind of backsaw that is used to cut straight lines in wood. It does not cut materials such as metal. It is a standard item in the carpenter's toolkit. A tenon saw is made out of high-speed steel (HSS) and brass. It is sometimes made out of hard-carbon steel (heat treated steel).

It is used to cut small pieces of wood and most joints. The saw has a fine toothed crosscut for sawing plywood, thin wood and large joints.

[[International Bureau of Weights and Measures]]

CATEGORIES: Measurement, Scientific organizations, Paris, 1875 establishments in Europe, 19th century establishments in France

The International Bureau of Weights and Measures is an organization that is based in Sèvres near Paris in France. Its name in French is "Bureau international des poids et mesures". The abbreviation of its name in all languages is BIPM. These are the letters of the name in French.

It was established in 1875 and has laboratories and offices. Scientists use the laboratories to compare measurements that are made in different countries. The offices are used for meetings where scientists discuss the best way to make sure that all countries use the same measurements.

[[Brownian bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

A Brownian bridge is a stochastic process that results from the Brownian motion, given that at the end of the time modeled, the function value is 0.

[[Scotts]]

Scots or "Scottish English"

Scotts may refer to several things:

[[Scotts (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, 1992 establishments in Europe, Swedish musical groups, 1990s establishments in Sweden

Scotts is a modern dansband from Lidköping, Sweden. Established in 1992, Scotts competed at Dansbandskampen in 2008, finishing up second behind Larz-Kristerz, starting to aim at their ambition becoming a full-time band. The band also competed at Melodifestivalen in 2009, with the song "Jag tror på oss".

[[Kacey Musgraves]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, American country musicians, Singer-songwriters from Texas, Living people

Kacey Lee Musgraves (born August 21, 1988) is an American country singer. She released her first three albums herself before being signed to Mercury Records in 2012. Her first album on the label, Same Trailer Different Park, was released on March 19, 2013. It went straight to number two in the Billboard 200. 

Musgraves won New Artist of the Year at the 2013 Academy of Country Music Awards. She also performed her single "Follow Your Arrow". 

Same Trailer Different Park was nominated for Best Country Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards.

She has won six Grammy Awards (including the Grammy Award for Album of the Year in 2019), seven Country Music Association Awards, and three Academy of Country Music Awards.

In 2009, she sang on three songs on Mark McKinney's album Middle America.

[[Amanda Righetti]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Utah, 1983 births, Living people

Amanda Righetti (April 4, 1983) is an American actress. She appeared in television programs, among them being The O.C.. She was also in several movies. Righetti was born in St. George, Utah.

[[Amber Tamblyn]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Santa Monica, California, 1983 births, Living people

Amber Rose Tamblyn (born May 14, 1983) is an American movie and television series actress. She first became known through General Hospital, an ABC soap opera. From 2003 to 2005, she starred in Joan of Arcadia. She also acted in the movies The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants and Django Unchained. Her father is Golden Globe Award-winning actor Russ Tamblyn.

[[Stephanie Daley]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 drama movies, American drama movies, American independent movies

Stephanie Daley is a 2006 drama movie. It was released in 2007 in the United States. drama movie. The movie is about teenage pregnancy. In this movie, the title character dodges questions by her psychologist and insists she is pregnant through an act of God. Amber Tamblyn plays Stephanie Daley in this movie. Also starring are Tilda Swinton and Timothy Hutton.

[[Battle of Germantown]]

CATEGORIES: Battles of the American Revolutionary War, 1777 in the United States, 1770s in Pennsylvania, October events

The Battle of Germantown was a battle of the American Revolutionary War fought during the Philadelphia Campaign. It was fought on October 4, 1777 near Germantown, Pennsylvania. The British won the battle.

[[Campan valley]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of France, Occitanie

The Campan valley is a valley of the Pyrenees in the French department department of Hautes-Pyrénées in the Occitanie region.

The valley is in the arrondissement of Bagnères-de-Bigorre, and Bagnères-de-Bigorre (the subprefecture of the arrondissement) is at the northern end of the valley.

[[Hansa]]

Hansa can refer to several things:

[[Stop codon]]

CATEGORIES: Molecular biology

A stop codon, or termination codon, is special sequence in the genetic code. It is a nucleotide triplet in messenger RNA that signals the end of translation.

It is a codon (that is, a sequence of three nucleotides in messenger RNA). It indicates the end of a gene. Similar to how a full stop indicates the end of a sentence, a stop codon signals the end of genetic translation.

They are also called termination codons or chain termination codons. There are three such codons: UAA, UAG and UGA.

Proteins are based on polypeptides, which are unique sequences of amino acids. Most codons in messenger RNA correspond to the addition of an amino acid to a growing polypeptide chain, which may ultimately become a protein. Stop codons indicate the end of this process, and therefore, the end of polypeptide synthesis.

[[Coenwulf of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 820s deaths, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Coenwulf (also spelled Cenwulf and Kenulf) (died 821) was a Mercian nobleman and the King of Mercia from December 796 until his death. He claimed to be a descendant of a Cenwalh, a brother of Penda and Eowa. The sudden death of King Ecgfrith of Mercia was suspicious and certainly benefited Coenwulf but he was never formally accused. Coenwulf proved to be a strong king who quickly restored Mercian dominance in southern England. He was the last of the Mercian overlords or bretwaldas.

[[Over the Limit (2012)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in professional wrestling, Raleigh, North Carolina, WWE Over the Limit, 2012 in American television, 21st century in North Carolina, May 2012 events

Over the Limit (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on May 20, 2012 at the PNC Arena in Raleigh, North Carolina. It was the third and final Over the Limit event held by the WWE.

[[DJ Quik]]

CATEGORIES: Singers from California, American rap musicians from California, 1970 births, Living people

David Marvin Blake (born 18 January 1970) is an American rapper and recording artist. He has rapped with other singers and on his own albums. He was born in Compton, California.

[[Over the Limit (2010)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 in professional wrestling, Sports in Detroit, Michigan, WWE Over the Limit, 2010 in the United States, 2010s in Michigan, 21st century in Detroit, Michigan

Over the Limit (2010) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment. It was held on May 23, 2010 at the Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan. It was the first Over the Limit event held by the WWE.

[[Box office bomb]]

CATEGORIES: Movies

The term box office bomb (or box office flop) usually means a movie that is not successful or does not make much money at the box office.

One example of a box office bomb is the action-thriller Money Train (released in November 1995). That movie made only $9 million above its $68 million overall budget.

Another box office bomb was Cutthroat Island, which was released in December 1995. That movie cost $98 million, but took in only  $10,017,322 at the box office.

[[Cutthroat Island]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1995 movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Renny Harlin

Cutthroat Island is a 1995 American romantic comedy movie. It was released in December 1995. The movie is about pirates invading ships in 1668 Jamaica. Geena Davis plays Morgan Adams. This movie performed so poorly at the box office that, before Christmas 2010, it became a massive "box office bomb" and was considered the least successful movie in United States history.November 2013 Its reviews from movie critics were very negative.

[[Segar Bastard]]

CATEGORIES: 1854 births, 1921 deaths, English footballers

Segar Richard Bastard (25 January 1854 – 20 March 1921) was an amateur English football player and referee. He played football for Upton Park F.C. and Trojans F.C.. He refereed a number of important matches, including FA Cup finals and Home Nations international matches.

[[Scottish Premiership]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in the United Kingdom, Scottish Football League, 21st century establishments in Scotland

The Scottish Premiership is a professional football competition for professional clubs in Scotland. It is the top level of the Scottish Professional Football League, starting in July 2013 after the closure of the Scottish Premier League.

[[René Aufhauser]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, People from Styria

René Aufhauser (born 21 June 1976 in Voitsberg, Styria) is an Austrian football player who plays for FC Liefering as defender. Liefering is playing in the Austrian Football First League, which is the second level in Austrian football.

Aufhauser started in his local clubs  ASK Köflach and ASK Voitsberg. In Voitsberg he was discovered by scouts of Austria Salzburg and in 1997 he signed for the club. Soon he became member of the Austrian U21- national team. 2001 he left Salzburg to join the Grazer AK. In 2004 he won the Championship with this side. After the Red Bull take over of SV Austria Salzburg he came back to join FC Red Bull Salzburg. In 5 years he played 115 matches and shot 20 goals. Under the new manager Huub Stevens he played not often so he left in January 2010 to join LASK Linz. After the denieing of a licence and the relegation to the 3rd league Aufhauser left the club and went back for the third time to Salzburg and joined FC Liefering, the farm team of FC Red Bull Salzburg. In the 2012/13 season they won the Regionalliga West and had to play two play-off matches versus LASK Linz, his former team. They won and were promoted to the First league.

René Aufhauser played 58 times for the Austrian national football team. He was also part of the squad for the UEFA Euro 2008.

[[Christy Hemme]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, American rock singers, Football players from California, Sportspeople from California, Former WWE wrestlers

Christina Lee "Christy" Hemme (born October 28, 1980) is an American ring announcer, professional wrestling valet, singer, former model and retired professional wrestler. She currently works for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling as an interviewer and ring announcer.

She is also known for her time in World Wrestling Entertainment where she won the 2004 Diva Search. She stayed with them from 2004 to 2005 and was released from her WWE contract on December 5, 2005. She signed with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) in April 2006.

[[Janelle Monáe]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, African-American rappers, American rap musicians from Missouri, Musicians from Kansas City, Missouri, Actors from Kansas City, Missouri, Living people, Singers from Kansas City, Missouri

Janelle Monáe (born December 1, 1985), is an American R&B musician. In 2010 she released her first album, The ArchAndroid. Critics liked it and it got nominated for Best Contemporary R&B Album at the 2011 Grammy Awards. On February 11 2012 she released the first single from the album, "Tightrope". Big Boi rapped in it. It was nominated for Best Urban/Alternative Performance at the same Grammy Awards show. It won Best Track at the NME Awards.

In March 2012 Monáe had her first Billboard Hot 100 top ten hit and No.1, as a singer on Fun's single "We Are Young".

In August 2012 she became the model for CoverGirl.

In October 2012 she performed at the BET Black Girls Rock! Awards and won the Young, Gifted & Black Award.

Monáe voice-acted in the American Dad! episode "The Boring Identity", which was shown 21 Apr. 2013.

On September 6, 2013 her second studio album Metropolis: Suites IV and V - The Electric Lady was released. It got good reviews. It reached No.5 in the Billboard 200. Three singles have been released from it: "Q.U.E.E.N.", "Dance Apocalyptic", and "Primetime". The album includes songs that she did with Solange, Prince, Erykah Badu, and Esperanza Spalding.

On October 26 Monáe performed on Saturday Night Live.

In November 2013 she won Video of the Year honor for “Q.U.E.E.N.” at the Soul Train Awards.

On December 12 2013 she gave the Rising Star Award at the 2013 Billboard Women in Music event in New York.

In April 2018, she came out as pansexual.

Monáe was born in Kansas City, Kansas. She moved to New York to study theatre at the American Musical and Dramatic Academy because she wanted to be a Broadway actress. She changed her mind, and in 2001 she moved to Atlanta. She met Big Boi from Outkast there. They made the Wondaland Arts Society. Monáe released her first EP The Audition in 2003. Big Boi told his friend Diddy about Monáe. In 2006 she was signed to his record label Bad Boy.

[[Nostalgia, Ultra]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, R&B albums

Nostalgia, Ultra is the debut mixtape album by recording artist Frank Ocean. It was released in February 2011 as a free digital download on Ocean's website. It featured the successful singles "Novacane" and "Swim Good". It was supposed to be reissued as an extended play, but this was cancelled. The mixtape caught the attention of rappers Kanye West and Jay-Z, who got Ocean as a featured artist on their Watch The Throne album. The mixtape caused controversy in March 2012 because of the track "American Wedding", which is a remake of "Hotel California" by The Eagles.

[[Odd Future]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American music groups, 2007 establishments in California, 2010s American music groups, Hip hop bands, Musical groups established in 2007, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California

Odd Future is a group of hip hop musicians from Los Angeles, United States. It was formed in 2007 by Tyler The Creator.

[[Nothing Was the Same]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums, Drake albums

Nothing Was the Same is the third studio album by Drake. It was released in September 2013. It was promoted by the hit songs "Started From the Bottom" and "Hold On, Were Going Home". It is very different from Drake's previous album Take Care.

[[Mole (food)]]

CATEGORIES: Mexican food

Mole is a spicy chocolate made for Día de Muertos (Day of the Dead). It is usually made out of chili peppers, spices, and chocolate.

[[Nicos Anastasiades]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Presidents of Cyprus, Current national leaders

Nicos Anastasiades (born 27 September 1946) is a Cypriot politician who has been President of Cyprus since 2013. Previously, he was leader of the center-right political party Democratic Rally (DISY).

Anastasiades was born on 27 September 1946 in Pera Pedi, Cyprus. He studied at National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and at the University College London. Anastasiades is married to Andri Moustakoudes.

Anastasiades was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1981 and has been leader of his party since 8 June 1997.

Anastasiades earned 673 votes (86.73%) and MEP Theocharous 103 (13.27%). On the first round of the presidential election on 17 February 2013, Anastasiades won 45% of votes, while Stavros Malas and George Lillikas earned 26.9% and 24.9%, respectively. He won in the second round with 57.48% of the vote.

[[Demetris Christofias]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Presidents of Cyprus, Presidents of the House of Representatives (Cyprus)

Demetris Christofias, also spelled Dimitris Christofias (Δημήτρης Χριστόφιας ðiˈmitɾis xɾiˈstofças; 29 August 1946 – 21 June 2019), was a Cypriot politician. He was the sixth President of Cyprus from 2008 to 2013. Christofias was the General Secretary of AKEL, the communist party of Cyprus, and was the European Union's and Cyprus' first, and so far only, communist head of state.

He won the 2008 Cypriot presidential elections in the second round of voting. Throughout the election campaign, he promised to restart talks with Turkish Cypriots in order to find an answer to the Cyprus dispute and reunify the island. He has also supported the closure of the British military bases on Cyprus.

On 20 May 2019, Christofias was hospitalized in Nicosia due to an acute respiratory infection and was under critical condition. He died a month later on 21 June 2019 from respiratory failure at the age of 72.

[[President of Cyprus]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Cyprus

The President of Cyprus is the head of state and the head of government of the Republic of Cyprus. The office was created in 1960, after Cyprus gained its independence from the United Kingdom. The current President of Cyprus is Nicos Anastasiades.

[[Tassos Papadopoulos]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2008 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Presidents of Cyprus, Nicosia, Presidents of the House of Representatives (Cyprus)

Tassos (Efstathios) Nikolaou Papadopoulos (Τάσσος (Ευστάθιος) Νικολάου Παπαδόπουλος; 7 January 1934 – 12 December 2008) was a Cypriot politician. He served as the fifth President of the Republic of Cyprus from February 28, 2003 to February 28, 2008.

Papadopoulos died on 12 December 2008 from a type of lung cancer in Nicosia, Cyprus, aged 74.

[[Glafcos Clerides]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2013 deaths, Nicosia, Presidents of Cyprus, Presidents of the House of Representatives (Cyprus)

Glafcos Ioannou Clerides (Γλαύκος Ιωάννου Κληρίδης; 24 April 1919 – 15 November 2013) was a Greek-Cypriot politician. He was the fourth President of Cyprus. He was the oldest living former President of the Republic of Cyprus.

[[Ceolwulf I of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, Year of death unknown, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Ceolwulf I was the King of Mercia, East Anglia and Kent from 821 to 823. He succeeded his brother Coenwulf of Mercia. There was a great deal of disagreement among his noblemen during his short reign. He was deposed and exiled from Mercia by Beornwulf of Mercia who claimed the throne himself.

[[Machine pistol]]

CATEGORIES: Pistols, Law enforcement equipment

A machine pistol is a typically a handgun-style firearm that can fire fully automatic or burst fire. Fully automatic means that the gun will continue to fire very rapidly so long as the trigger is pressed and held. Burst fire means that when you pull the trigger, a number of shots determined by the shooter will be fired (for some guns, this is three shots, fired very quickly). Machine pistols fire pistol cartridges. Machine pistols usually have the cartridges fed into the gun with a magazine, which is a rectangular box which holds the cartridges.

Machine pistols are usually self-loading, which means that the gun automatically loads a new cartridge into the chamber after a shot is fired. 

[[Vassos Lyssarides]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2021 deaths, Centenarians, Presidents of the House of Representatives (Cyprus), Chief executives

Vassos Lyssarides (13 May 1920 – 26 April 2021) was a Cypriot politician. He was an important figure in Cyprus politics since the island's independence. In 1969, he founded EDEK, the first Socialist political party of Cyprus.

He was born on May 13, 1920 in the village of Lefkara. He was educated at the Pancyprian Gymnasium and then studied medicine at the University of Athens.

On 30 August 1974, an attempt was made against his life; during the attack, EDEK youth leader Doros Loizou was killed. Lyssarides was elected and served as President of the House of Representatives from 1985 to 1991.

Lyssarides died at his home in Nicosia, Cyprus on 26 April 2021, less than one month before his 101st birthday.

[[George Vasiliou]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Presidents of Cyprus, Business people

Georgios Vasos Vassiliou (Γιώργος Βασιλείου; born May 20, 1931 in Famagusta, Cyprus) is an Cypriot politician. He was the third President of the Republic of Cyprus from 1988 to 1993. He was also the founder and leader of the Cypriot United Democrats party (EDI) and a highly successful businessman.

He elected as president of United Democrats and remained president until 2005. In the Parliamentary Elections of 2001 his party lost one of its seats and he wasn't re-elected. In 2004, he resigned from the presidency of United Democrats.

He has also served as Chief Negotiator for the accession of Cyprus to the European Union from 1998 to 2003.

[[Spyros Kyprianou]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2002 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Presidents of Cyprus, Presidents of the House of Representatives (Cyprus)

Spyros Achilleos Kyprianou (or Cyprianou) (Σπύρος Κυπριανού; 28 October 1932 – 12 March 2002) was an Cypriot politician. He was one of the most important politicians of modern Cyprus. He served as the second President of the Republic of Cyprus from 1977 to 1988.

Spyros Kyprianou died on 12 March 2002 after a long fight with prostate cancer.

[[Makarios III]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 1977 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Presidents of Cyprus, Nicosia

Makarios III (Μακάριος Γ), born Michail Christodolou Mouskos (Μιχαήλ Χριστοδούλου Μούσκος; August 13, 1913 – August 3, 1977), was the archbishop and primate of the autocephalous Cypriot Orthodox Church (1950–1977). He was the first President of the Republic of Cyprus (1960–1974 and 1974–1977). In his three terms as President of Cyprus (1959-1977), he survived four assassination attempts.

Makarios died from a heart attack on August 3, 1977 in Nicosia, Cyprus, aged 63.

[[Open Season]]

Open Season may refer to:

[[Salem, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in South Dakota, Cities in South Dakota, 1880 establishments in Dakota Territory

Salem is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of McCook County, and it became a city in 1880. At the 2010 census, 1,347 people lived there.

[[Jorge González]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, 2010 deaths, Argentine sportspeople, Basketball players, Deaths from diabetes, Former WWE wrestlers, Professional wrestlers

Jorge González (January 31, 1966 – September 22, 2010) was an Argentine professional wrestler and basketball player. He is known for competing in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and World Wrestling Federation (WWF). He also competed for New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW).

Before becoming a professional wrestler, González played basketball. He was the tallest Argentine basketball player in history, standing at 2.29 m (7 ft 6.25 in).

He was drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft by the Atlanta Hawks in the third round. González along with Hernán Montenegro (who was drafted 3 spots after him) became the first Argentine players drafted in the NBA. He was not able to adapt to the physical demands of NBA basketball because of a serious knee injury.

He was known for wearing a full body suit that featured airbrushed muscles with bushy hair attached. He debuted in the WWF at the Royal Rumble in January 1993, where he eliminated The Undertaker from the Royal Rumble match even though he was not an official participant. González challenged The Undertaker at WrestleMania IX but lost by disqualification when he knocked Undertaker unconscious by using chloroform. This win for The Undertaker remains the only instance where he did not have a decisive victory in his WrestleMania streak.

[[Expected value]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

The Law of large numbers describes how this happens.

[[Canaletto]]

CATEGORIES: 1697 births, 1768 deaths, 18th century Italian painters

Giovanni Antonio Canal (18 October 1697 – 19 April 1768) was an Italian painter from Venice. Today, he is mostly remembered for his landscape paintings. Some of these landscape paintings which resemble the views found on modern-day postcards are known as Vedutes today. He was also an important printmaker in etching.  

[[Wikipediocracy]]

CATEGORIES: Wikis, 2012 establishments, Wikimedia

Wikipediocracy is an Internet forum in English. It was founded in March 2012. It lets people who sign up talk about Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. It is like the Wikipedia Review, another website for talking about how people feel about Wikipedia and the organisations and people that run it.

[[Olga Syahputra]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2015 deaths, Actors from Jakarta, Comedians, Indonesian singers, Television actors

Yoga Syahputra (8 February 1983 – 27 March 2015) was an Indonesian actor, comedian, and singer.

[[Janet Carroll]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, Actors from Illinois, 1940 births, 2012 deaths

Janet Carroll (24 December 1940 – 22 May 2012) was an American movie and theater actress. She acted in many movies, including Talent for the Game (1991), Forces of Nature (1999) and Destiny Turns on the Radio (1995). She also did several TV acts, including Murphy Brown. She is perhaps best remembered as the mother of Joel (Tom Cruise) in the 1983 film Risky Business.

Carroll was born in Chicago. She died from brain cancer at age 71, in New York City.

[[Bernardo Bellotto]]

CATEGORIES: 1720s births, 1780 deaths, 18th century Italian painters

Bernardo Bellotto (1721 or 1722 – 17 October 1780) was an Italian urban landscape painter or vedutista, and printmaker in etching. Today, he is mostly remembered for his vedute of European cities (Dresden, Vienna, Turin and Warsaw). He was the pupil and nephew of Canaletto and sometimes used the latter's illustrious name, signing himself as Bernardo Canaletto.  In Germany and Poland, Bellotto called himself by his uncle's name, Canaletto.

In his paintings, Bellotto paid great attention to the way he represented works of architecture and how the light illuminated the scene. It is plausible that Bellotto, and other Venetian masters of vedute, may have used the camera obscura in order to achieve superior precision of urban views.

[[Roger Schmidt]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, German footballers, German football managers, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia, Eredivisie managers

Roger Schmidt (born 13 March 1967 in Kierspe, North Rhine-Westphalia) is a German football manager. He is manager of the Austrian team FC Red Bull Salzburg.

His original profession is engineer. As player he played for SC Verl and SC Paderborn as midfielder. He started his career as manager with Delbrücker SC, went on to Preußen Münster and then to Paderborn 07. Since his time with Münster he is a professional manager.

His last manager job is with FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Bundesliga, the top level league in Austrian football. Although the team gained goal and point record they finished only second. Being in danger to lose his job a lot of the fans declared their solidarity.

In 2014, he transferred to Bayer 04 Leverkusen.

[[Dornier Do 17]]

CATEGORIES: World War II German aircraft, German military aircraft

The Dornier Do 17 is a Nazi German military aircraft. It was used for the World War II as a bomber, night fighter, and reconnaissance plane. It's a twin-engines aircraft. It was used by Luftwaffe for Battle of France and after Battle of Britain. Maiden flight in 1934. More than 2100 examples were built. Do 217 and Do 317 are modern variants of it.

It was nicknamed the “flying pencil” for its thin fuselage. It’s successors, the Do-215 and Do-217, would inherit this nickname.

[[Ernest W. Burgess]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1966 deaths, People from Ontario, American sociologists

Ernest W. Burgess (May 16, 1886–December 27, 1966) was an urban sociologist. He was born in Tilbury, Ontario, Canada. Burgess received his education at Kingfisher College in Kingfisher, Oklahoma. He did his graduate studies in sociology at the University of Chicago. In 1916, he returned to the University of Chicago, as a member of the faculty. Burgess was hired as an urban sociologist at the University of Chicago. He was the 24th President of the American Sociological Association (ASA). He made the Burgess model to show how big Chicago will grow in 1923. The Burgess model is also called the Concentric zone model.

[[Beornwulf of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 820s deaths, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Beornwulf († 826) was a Mercian nobleman who became the King of Mercia. Although not of the Mercian royal family himself he usurped the throne from Ceolwulf in 823. He ruled Mercia until his death three years later. 

[[French Resistance]]

CATEGORIES: Resistance movements of World War II, Rebellions in Europe, 20th century rebellions, 1930s in France, 1940s in France

The French Resistance is the name used to refer to the different French resistance movements that fought against the Nazi German military occupation in France during World War II (1939–1945).  Résistance cells were small groups of armed men and women who killed German soldiers, published secret underground newspapers, collected information about the German army, and helped Allied soldiers and pilots who were trapped in France to get back to Great Britain. The men and women of the Résistance came from all levels of society and many different religions.

The Allied armies helped the French Resistance by providing them with guns and explosives. It was very dangerous to be a member of the French resistance. Members who were caught by the Germans were often tortured and killed. When the Resistance killed a German officer, sometimes the Nazi army would kill large numbers of innocent civilians as a punishment.

The French Resistance helped the Allied armies to advance through France following the invasion of Normandy on 6 June 1944, and the invasion of Provence on 15 August by providing information about the German defenses. The resistance also sabotaged the electrical power grid, transportation methods, and telecommunications networks. During the Nazi occupation of France, the resistance was an inspiring example of patriotic behavior and bravery.

When the war was over, the Resistance executed about 9,000 people who were collaborating with the Nazi occupiers. This included many members of the Milices, a fascist organization that helped Nazi Germany.

[[Juraj Dobrila University of Pula]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Europe, Croatia, Establishments in Croatia, 2006 establishments in Europe

The Juraj Dobrila University of Pula (Sveučilište Jurja Dobrile u Puli) is a university in the city of Pula, Croatia. It was created in 2006. As of 2011, the university had about 2,465 students.

[[Paul Baum]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 births, 1932 deaths, German painters

Paul Baum (22 September 1859 – 15 May 1932) was a German painter. At first he was an Impressionist painter, but later developed to be a Post-Impressionist. He was one of the main post-impressionist German artists. He worked as a teacher at different art schools. Today, he is mostly known for his landscape paintings. Most of the landscapes were from Flanders or the Netherlands.

[[Rhythm section]]

CATEGORIES: Music

A rhythm section is the group of musicians in a rock music, jazz, or country music group who play their instruments to set out the pulse or beat of the music. This is played in accompaniment to the rest of the band. Some of the rhythm section instruments, such as the guitar and the piano, also play the chord progression (sequence of chords) that a song is based upon. Some rhythm section instruments, such as the drums and percussion, are just used to set out the beat. Most rhythm sections include a bass instrument, such as the bass guitar or the double bass, which plays the deep, low notes of the chord progression.

[[Middle Angles]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, Ethnic groups in the United Kingdom

The Middle Angles were an important ethnic group in the kingdom of Mercia during the Anglo-Saxon period. It is probable that Angles moved into the Midlands from East Anglia early in the 6th century. The area they occupied is now centred around modern Leicestershire and Northamptonshire. They were in place before the reign of Penda (c.626-655). He made his eldest son, Peada, King of the Middle Angles in 653. For some time they kept their own identity in Mercia. The Middle Angles had their own bishop based in Leicester.

[[Lap dance]]

CATEGORIES: Sex industry, Dance types

A lap dance is a type of sex work performed in some strip clubs (clubs in which women or men take off their clothes as they dance to music). In this, a dancer performs an erotic dance either contacting their body (contact dancing) with a seated patron or within a very short distance of a seated patron.

The dancer may be naked, topless or wearing a bikini top and bottom, depending on the laws in the jurisdiction of the strip club and the club's policies. With full-contact lap dances, the stripper may engage in contact with the patron, such as pressing his or her body against the patron. Different types include a couch dance, which is a lap dance where the customer is seated on a couch, and bed dance where the customer lies down on a bed. 

In some clubs, a "block session" of lap dances (usually half an hour to an hour) can be booked in a "champagne room", which is a private room in the back of a club. In many clubs, the duration of a lap dance is measured by the length of the song being played by the club's DJ. Charges for lap dances vary.

Depending on the local jurisdiction and community standards, lap dances can involve touching of the dancer by the patron, touching the patron by the dancer, neither, or both. In some clubs, any touching by the patron is forbidden. On the other hand, if a club does not enforce its rules, levels of contact may be negotiable between the participants. Clubs vary widely with regard to whether they enforce their rules or ignore any violations.

Critics of lapdancing say that some club owners, by installing dark private booths and charging dancers high stage fees to work at the club, are encouraging the sale of sexual acts between customers and dancers.  According to the UK paper The Guardian, "Research shows that the majority of women become lap-dancers through poverty and lack" of other jobs.

[[Ludeca of Mercia]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 820s deaths, Kings and Queens of Mercia

Ludeca († 827) was a Mercian nobleman and ealdorman. At the death of Beornwulf in 826 he became the King of Mercia. He ruled what was left of Mercia after Beornwulf's defeat by Egbert of Wessex at the Battle of Ellandun. He ruled Mercia until his own death, barely a year later. 

[[Chamberlain, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in South Dakota, Cities in South Dakota, 1881 establishments in Dakota Territory

Chamberlain is a city in the central part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Brule County, and it is located along the Missouri River, across from Oacoma. It became a city in 1881, and 2,387 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Strip club]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment venues, Sex industry

A strip club is a type of club that has performers who dance while removing their clothes and have security protect strip club. Most strip clubs are also bars which serve alcohol. Many communities have rules on strip clubs, such as rules on how many strip clubs are allowed to exist in the community, rules on the minimum distance that must be kept between dancers and customers, or rules on what clothing cannot be taken off (e.g. panties).

Some strip clubs offer lap dancing, which is a type of sex work that typically involves a female dancer pressing her body against a male customer for a fee.

Strip clubs can be a source of debates in a community. Iceland banned strip clubs for feminist reasons while in Britain there is still discussion about whether they are positive for women.

[[Paul Mantee]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from San Francisco

Paul Mantee (January 9, 1931 – November 7, 2013) was an American movie and television actor. He was known for his roles in Cagney & Lacey, Simon & Simon, Barnaby Jones, and in Quincy, M.E..

[[Scott Carpenter]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American astronauts, People from Boulder, Colorado

Malcolm Scott Carpenter (May 1, 1925 – October 10, 2013) was an American test pilot, astronaut, and aquanaut.  He was one of the original seven astronauts selected for NASA's Project Mercury in April 1959. Carpenter was the second American to orbit the Earth and the fourth American in space, following Alan Shepard, Gus Grissom, and John Glenn.

He was married to feminist columnist Rene Carpenter.

Carpenter had a stroke and entered The Denver Hospice Inpatient Care Center at Lowry, Denver, Colorado where he died on October 10, 2013. He was 88 years old. 

[[Regions of the Philippines]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of the Philippines

In the Philippines, regions (Tagalog: rehiyon) are administrative divisions that serve primarily to organize the provinces (lalawigan) of the country for administrative convenience. Most government offices are established by region instead of individual provincial offices, usually (but not always) in the city that is the regional center.

The regions themselves do not possess a separate local government, with the exception of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, which has an elected regional assembly and governor.

[[Luciano Vincenzoni]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Italian screenwriters, People from Veneto

Luciano Vincenzoni (7 March 1926 – 22 September 2013) was an Italian screenwriter, known as the "script doctor". He wrote for some 65 movies between 1954 and 2000. He is known for his works in For a Few Dollars More (1965) and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly in 1966, but he also wrote for a number of other Spaghetti westerns.

[[Poseur]]

CATEGORIES: Slang, Subculture

Poseur (or poser) is a negative term used by some subcultures. It describes a person who copies the style or mannerisms of a subculture, but who is not considered to belong to it. It implies that the person is fake, and is considered not to share or understand the values or philosophy of that culture.

A person may copy the style of a particular subculture to be accepted within that group or for popularity among various other groups.

The term is often used in the punk, heavy metal, hip hop, and goth subcultures, or the skateboarding and surfing communities. For example, in the hardcore punk scene, older punks may view a young punk with an "anarchy" symbol on their shirt as a poseur if the older punks think the young punk does not understand what the symbol means.

[[Merton College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: University of Oxford, 1264 establishments, 1260s establishments in Europe, 13th century establishments in England

Merton College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1264 by Walter de Merton, who was the Chancellor to Henry III and Edward I.  It claims to be the oldest college in Oxford, although Balliol College and University College also claim to be the oldest.

Construction of the college at its present location began in the 1270s. Its buildings are among the oldest in Oxford.  Mob Quad at Merton College was built in the 14th Century. It is often said to be the oldest quadrangle at Oxford or Cambridge. Other quadrangles at Oxford and Cambridge, however, may be older.

J.R.R. Tolkien was a professor of English Language and Literature at Merton College.

[[Blunt trauma]]

CATEGORIES: Symptoms

Blunt trauma is a kind of trauma that usually results from being hit by something dull and firm (like a car, a fist, or the ground).  It is also called blunt force trauma. This is different from penetrating trauma where an object, such as a bullet enters the body.

Common types of blunt force trauma include:

[[Christopher Koch]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Australian novelists, People from Hobart, Order of Australia

Christopher John Koch AO (16 July 1932 – 23 September 2013) was an Australian novelist. He is best known for his 1978 novel The Year of Living Dangerously, which was made into an award-winning movie. 

He won the Miles Franklin Award twice; The Doubleman in 1985, and Highways to a War in 1996. In 1995 he was made an Officer of the Order of Australia for contribution to Australian literature.

Koch was born in Hobart, Tasmania in 16 July 1932. He was educated at Clemes College, St Virgil's College, Hobart High School and the University of Tasmania.

Koch died at his home in Hobart on 23 September 2013, aged 81. He had been diagnosed with prostate cancer twelve months earlier.

[[Stein Grieg Halvorsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Centenarians, Norwegian entertainers, Norwegian stage actors, Actors from Oslo

Halvor Bernt Stein Grieg Halvorsen (19 October 1909 – 11 November 2013) was a Norwegian stage actor.

Halvorsen was born in Oslo, Norway on 19 October 1909. He was married to Elizabeth Thaulow from 1940 until her death in 1968. Then he was married to Vibeke Falk from 1971 until his death in 2013.

His son, Stein Johan Grieg Halvorsen, is half of the comedy duo Erlend & SteinJo, who rose to fame in the 1990s. 

Halvorsen died of natural causes on 11 November 2013 in his Oslo, Norway home. He died three weeks after his 104th birthday.

[[Shirley Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Toledo, Ohio, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from natural causes

Shirley Mitchell (November 4, 1919 – November 11, 2013) was an American radio, movie, and television actress. She was known for her role as Marion Strong in I Love Lucy in which she appeared in only three episodes. 

Mitchell was born in Toledo, Ohio on November 4, 1919. She studied at the University of Toledo and at the University of Michigan. Mitchell was married to Julian Frieden from 1946 until they divorced in 1974. Then she was married to Jay Livingston from 1992 until his death in 2001. She had two children with Frieden. Mitchell died on November 11, 2013 in Westwood, California from natural causes, aged 94.

[[University College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1249 establishments, 1240s establishments in Europe, 13th century establishments in England

University College is one of the colleges of Oxford University. The full name of University College is "The Masters and Fellows of the Great Hall of the University of Oxford". It is commonly called simply "The Univ".

According to legend, the college was founded by Alfred the Great in 872. Most historians agree, however, that the college originated in 1249 from a bequest by William of Durham. The college claims to be the oldest at Oxford. Balliol College and Merton College also claim to be the oldest college in Oxford.

The current buildings of the college were begun in the 17th Century.

Famous former students include British Prime Ministers Clement Attlee and Harold Wilson, American President Bill Clinton, Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke, authors Percy Bysshe Shelley, C.S. Lewis, and V. S. Naipaul, and physicist Stephen Hawking.

In 1979 The Univ started letting female undergraduate students study there.

[[Al Ruscio]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Massachusetts, People from Salem, Massachusetts

Alfred Ruscio (June 2, 1924 – November 12, 2013) was an American actor who appeared in many television series and movies. He was known for his roles in Showgirls, The Godfather Part III, MacGyver, The A-Team, and in Seinfeld.

Ruscio was born on June 2, 1924 in Salem, Massachusetts to Italian parents. He studied at Salem High School and at the Neighborhood Playhouse. Ruscio was married to Kate Williamson from 1954 until his death in 2013. They had four children. Ruscio died on November 12, 2013 in Los Angeles, California from renal failure, aged 89.

[[Grace Jones (supercentenarian)]]

CATEGORIES: 1899 births, 2013 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, British supercentenarians, People from London

Grace Adelaide Jones (7 December 1899 – 14 November 2013) was a British supercentenarian, who at the age of 113 years, 342 days,

was the oldest verified living person in the United Kingdom. She was the world's sixth-oldest living person until her death in November 2013. Until her death she was the last known living British person to have been born before 1900. 

Jones was born in Bermondsey, London, on 7 December 1899. She never married, but was engaged before her fiancé Albert Rees was killed in World War I at the age of nineteen. 

On 14 November 2013, following a fall a few weeks previously, Jones died at St Thomas' Hospital in London. Her death was confirmed by MP Simon Hughes.

On Jones' death, Ethel Lang became the UK's oldest living person.

[[Karla Álvarez]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Actors from Mexico City

Karla Mercedes Álvarez Báez  (15 October 1972 – 15 November 2013) was a Mexican actress. She was best known for her roles including Maria Mercedes and Alma Rebelde and as a contestant for Big Brother VIP in 2003. 

Álvarez was born on 15 October 1972 in Mexico City, Mexico. She was married to Alexis Ayala until they divorced. On 15 November 2013, Álvarez was found dead at her apartment in Mexico City due to respiratory failure. She was rumored to have suffered from alcoholism and allegedly had an eating disorder.

[[Harrisburg, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1873 establishments in Dakota Territory

Harrisburg is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is in Lincoln County, about three miles south of Sioux Falls. It became a city in 1873, and 4,089 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[John Y. McCollister]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Politicians from Iowa, United States representatives from Nebraska, US Republican Party politicians, People from Iowa City, Iowa

John Yetter McCollister (June 10, 1921 – November 1, 2013) was an American politician. He was a Nebraska Republican politician. He served two terms from 1965 to 1970 as the Douglas County Commissioner. 

He was a delegate to the Nebraska State Republican conventions from 1960 to 1970, and delegate to the 1968 Republican National Convention. In 1976, he decided to run instead for U.S. Senate but was unsuccessful, losing to Omaha Mayor Edward Zorinsky by a 53% to 47% margin. He was a presidential elector for Nebraska in 2000. 

McCollister was born in Iowa City, Iowa on June 10, 1921. In 1939 he graduated from Washington High School in Sioux Falls, South Dakota and in 1943 he graduated from the University of Iowa in Iowa City. 

He was married to Nanette Stokes from 1943 until his death in 2013. McCollister died on November 1, 2013 in Omaha, Nebraska from prostate cancer, aged 92.

[[William J. Coyne]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2013 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, United States representatives from Pennsylvania, Politicians from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, US Democratic Party politicians

William Joseph Coyne (August 24, 1936 – November 3, 2013) was an American politician. He was a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives from Pennsylvania.  

Coyne was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He graduated from Central Catholic High School in 1954, and received a B.S. in accounting from Robert Morris College. 

Coyne was elected to Congress in 1980, succeeding 24-year incumbent William S. Moorhead in a district taking in most of Pittsburgh. He was reelected ten times, never facing serious opposition. He was a longtime member of the United States House Committee on Ways and Means

In 2002, Coyne's district was combined with the district of Mike Doyle, a somewhat more moderate Democrat. Although the new district contained more of Coyne's territory than Doyle's, Coyne retired to avoid the possibility of two Democratic incumbents facing each other in the primary elections.  

Coyne died at the age of 77 on November 3, 2013, two months after falling and sustaining head injuries in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

[[Tea, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1894 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in South Dakota

Tea is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is in Lincoln County, about two miles southwest of Sioux Falls. It became a city in 1894, and 3,806 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Winner, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in South Dakota, Cities in South Dakota, 1911 establishments in South Dakota

Winner is a city in the southern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Tripp County, and it also administrates nearby Todd County, which does not have a county seat. It became a city in 1911, and 2,897 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Bar]]

Bar or BAR can refer to several things:

[[Hartford, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1878 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Dakota Territory

Hartford is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, about ten miles west of Sioux Falls. It became a city in 1878, and 2,534 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Saloon]]

Saloon can mean several things:

[[Flandreau, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in South Dakota, Cities in South Dakota, 1902 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in South Dakota

Flandreau is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Moody County. It became a city in 1902, and 2,341 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Battle of Ellandun]]

CATEGORIES: 825, Battles involving England, 9th century in England, Battles of the Middle Ages

The Battle of Ellandun (also spelled Ellendun) was fought in 825 between the armies of Egbert of Wessex and Beornwulf of Mercia. Although costly to both sides, King Egbert won. The battle effectively brought an end to Mercian supremacy in southern England. It gave Wessex dominance over the remaining Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the south. A century later the kingdom of Wessex became the kingdom of England.

[[Extreme Championship Wrestling]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 establishments in the United States, 2001 disestablishments in the United States, Extreme Championship Wrestling, Sports in Philadelphia

Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) was a professional wrestling company that ran from April 25, 1992 to April 4, 2001. The company was known for its hardcore style of wrestling as well as lucha libre to puroresu.

The company was originally known as Eastern Championship Wrestling and was owned by Tod Gordon. It was then renamed Extreme Championship Wrestling and Paul Heyman was brought in as the new owner after Tod Gordon sold ECW to him in 1995. World Wrestling Federation purchased Extreme Championship Wrestling after Heyman filed for bankruptcy on April 4, 2001.

WWE hosted a pay-per-view called ECW One Night Stand on June 12, 2005 which featured ECW alumni. They hosted another ECW One Night Stand on June 11, 2006 which helped introduce the relaunch of the ECW franchise as a WWE brand like Raw and SmackDown. Paul Heyman was also brought back to be the newly appointed figurehead for the ECW brand and recommissioned the ECW World Heavyweight Championship to be the brand's world title. He awarded it to Rob Van Dam after Van Dam won the WWE Championship at the 2006 One Night Stand. The brand operated until February 16, 2010.

[[Trinomen]]

CATEGORIES: Taxonomy

In zoology, the name that designates a subspecies is called Trinomen. It has three parts: It contains the name of the species and adds a qualifying name.

[[New Centre-Right]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in Italy, 2013 establishments in Europe, 2010s establishments in Italy

New Centre-Right (Nuovo Centrodestra, NCD) is a political party in Italy.

[[Pawn shop]]

CATEGORIES: Shops

A pawn shop (also called a pawnshop or pawnbroker) is a shop or business who loans money to people who bring in valuable items which they leave with the pawnbroker. Examples of items that a person may leave are jewellery, gold, watches, cameras, musical instruments, televisions or computers.

The valuables that people leave are called the "collateral". The person can get their valuable item back from the pawnbroker if they pay back the money they were loaned and pay interest on the loan. Interest is like a fee for getting to use someone else's money for a set time period. If the person who has borrowed money from the pawnbroker does not repay the loan and interest within an agreed-upon time limit, the pawnbroker can sell the valuable item to another customer to get back the money they loaned.

To prevent thieves from using pawnshops as a way to get money from stolen goods, many communities have laws requiring that people who bring in valuable items to the pawnshop have to show identification, such as a driver's licence.

[[The Road Warriors]]

CATEGORIES: WWE teams and stables, WWE Hall of Fame

The Road Warriors were a professional wrestling tag team that competed in many different professional wrestling promotions. They were known for competing in American Wrestling Association, the National Wrestling Alliance, World Championship Wrestling, and World Wrestling Federation. The team's originally member were Road Warrior Hawk and Road Warrior Animal. 

[[Tipping]]

CATEGORIES: Income

A tip (also called a gratuity) is an amount of money given as gratitude to somebody who has provided a service. It is normally in addition to any fee that is charged. It is a custom in many societies. For example, after people finish eating dinner at a restaurant, even after they have paid the bill for the food, they leave some extra money on the table to thank the server.

Tipping and the amount of money that people give as tips varies between countries. In some locations tipping is discouraged and considered insulting. In other locations tipping is expected from customers. The tip can be a specific range of money or a percentage of the bill, such as 15 percent or 20 percent. In some circumstances, such as with government workers in some areas, giving tips is against the law. Some restaurants charge a service charge and add it onto the bill. In this case, you do not have to leave a tip. For many service workers, like servers, bartenders, and taxi drivers, tips are an important part of their income.

[[Bass amplifier]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic musical instruments, Music technology

Bass instrument amplification is an amplifier used for bass guitars, double bass and similar instruments. It makes the sound they make louder. It is different from other types of amplification systems because it is difficult to reproduce low-frequency sounds (bass). Bass amps need strong loudspeakers, and a relatively larger speaker cabinet. Speaker cabinets for bass instrument amplification usually have larger (or more) loudspeakers than those used for the amplification of other instruments. The loudspeakers themselves must also be sturdier to handle the higher power levels.

[[Norwegian Resistance]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s in Norway, Resistance movements of World War II, Rebellions in Europe, 20th century rebellions, National liberation movements

During World War II, Norway was occupied by Nazi Germany. The Norwegian Resistance was a rebellion by Norwegians against the invasion and occupation by the Nazis. It lasted from 1940 to 1945. It supported the Norwegian government that was formed outside of the country as the true government of Norway. They discouraged Norwegians from following the pro-Nazi Norwegian government formed by Vidkun Quisling. 

The Norwegian Resistance helped the original members of the Norwegian government to escape from Norway. They were lucky that they escaped alive, because the Germans tried to kill them. They managed to get to the coast where a British warship picked them up.

The Norwegian Resistance also carried out armed resistance against the Nazi soldiers. This included sabotage (breaking or destroying things), assassinations, and exploding German ships with bombs. The Norwegian Resistance also did unarmed civil disobedience actions, like protests.

[[Lennox, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1889 establishments in South Dakota

Lennox is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Lincoln County. It became a city in 1889, and 2,111 people lived there at the 2010 census. And it has the best marching bands in the state.

[[Vidkun Quisling]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 births, 1945 deaths, Anti-Communists, People executed by firearm, Prime Ministers of Norway, World War II political leaders

Vidkun Quisling (18 July 1887 – 24 October 1945) was a Norwegian politician. He was involved in the German invasion of Norway during World War II. On 9 April 1940, with the invasion in progress, he seized power of the country. In 1942 with the help of he Nazis he became Prime Minister. 

His government helped the Nazi German government to find Jews, who were then killed. In 1945, when Germany lost the war, Vidkun was put on trial for high treason. He was found guilty, and then executed by firing squad. Today, the name "quisling" is still used as a way of calling someone a traitor.

[[North Sioux City, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1951 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in South Dakota

North Sioux City is a city in the far southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Union County, near the junction of the Missouri River and the Big Sioux River. North Sioux City is near the borders of Iowa and Nebraska, and it is a suburb of Sioux City, Iowa. It became a city in 1951, and 2,530 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Hertford College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1874 establishments in England

Hertford College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The full name of the college is the Principal, Fellows and Scholars of Hertford College in the University of Oxford. It is best-known for its bridge, called "The Bridge of Sighs".

Hertford was originally known as "Hart Hall". The land for Hart Hall was bought by Elias de Hertford in 1282. Hart Hall was a residence for students at other colleges in Oxford. In 1312, Hart Hall was purchased by Walter de Stapledon, who was the Bishop of Exeter.  De Stapledon founded Exeter College and Hart Hall was controlled by Exeter College for many years.

In 1710, William Newton became the Principal of Hart Hall.  In 1723, Newton formally proposed that Hart Hall be chartered as its own college. In 1740 a charter was granted for the new Hertford College. After Newton died, however, the college declined, and it was dissolved in 1816.

The grounds of the college was taken over by Magdalen Hall. Magdalen Hall began as a grammar school associated with Magdalen College in 1480. Magdalen Hall moved to the site of the former Hertford College in 1822. It grew at the new site, and in 1874, Magdalen Hall was given a charter as Hertford College. The new name was chosen so that it would not be confused with Magdalen College, and because it was on the location of the former Hertford College.

[[Survivor Series (2012)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 in American television, 2012 in professional wrestling, History of Indianapolis, Indiana, Survivor Series

Survivor Series (2012) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on November 18, 2012 at the Bankers Life Fieldhouse in Indianapolis, Indiana. It was the twenty sixth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

[[German invasion of Norway]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 in Europe, 1940s in Norway, Invasions of World War II, April events

The German invasion of Norway occurred during the Second World War. It led to battles between the Allies and Germany. In April 1940, the United Kingdom and France came to help Norway by sending soldiers and warships. The Allies had to withdraw and the Norwegian government had to escape from Norway and seek exile in London. Even though the Germans occupied Norway, some Norwegians formed the Norwegian resistance and kept fighting the Germans. Norway held off the Germans for 62 days, making Norway the nation that withstood a German invasion for the longest period of time, after the Soviet Union.

[[Sexless marriage]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage, Human sexuality

A sexless marriage is a marriage in which the partners do not have sex very often or at all. The U.S. National Health and Social Life Survey in 1994 (Laumann et al. 1994) found that 2 percent of the married people who answered said they did not have sex in the past year. The definition of a sexless marriage is often broadened, to include marriages where sex occurs less than ten times per year. Using this definition, 20 percent of the couples in the National Health and Social Life Survey would be in the category. Newsweek magazine says that 15 to 20 percent of couples in the U.S. are in a sexless relationship. Sexlessness means being without sexual activity. Sexlessness is sometimes promoted by some religious groups. This includes religious groups promoting abstinence or celibacy. There are also cultural groups who promote some types of sexlessness. These include groups like fapstinence or nofappers. Sexlessness among lesbian couples is called lesbian bed death. Some studies show that females gays are more likely to have sexlessness in their relationship than male gays. But sexlessness can also be harmful for allosexual adults. For example sexlessness in allosexual adults can cause death-grip syndrome or genital atrophy. Besides death-grip syndrome and genital atrophy, sexlessness can also cause emotional unhappiness and low self-esteem.

[[Insignificance]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Insignificance is a feeling that nothing you do matters, or that you are not important. People may feel this for many reasons. For example, having low self-esteem, being depressed, living in a large city with many people, comparing themselves to rich celebrity success stories, working in a large bureaucracy, or being in awe of a natural wonder.

People living in crowded, major cities may face feelings of insignificance. George Simmel says that when people live in a big city, they may start to feel like "...just another face in the crowd", it can "lead to feelings of insignificance...".

[[Emptiness]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Emptiness is a sense of general boredom, feeling socially separated from other people, and feeling that you do not care any more. Feelings of emptiness often accompany depression, loneliness, or despair. A sense of emptiness is also part of a natural process of grief, caused by separation from or the death of somebody you love.

While Christianity and Western sociologists and psychologists consider a state of emptiness as a negative, bad condition, in some Eastern philosophies such as Buddhist philosophy and Taoism, emptiness is seen as a real achievement.

[[Jameela Jamil]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, BBC radio presenters, English television presenters, People from Hampstead, Radio personalities from London, Television personalities from London

Jameela Jamil (born 25 February 1986) is a British television and radio presenter. She hosts The Official Chart on BBC Radio 1. 

Jamil was born in Hampstead, London to an Indian father and an English mother.

In 2012 the first collection by 'JAM by Jameela Jamil' was released on Very.co.uk.

Jamil played Tahani on The Good Place, a sitcom that ran from 2016 to 2020. It won a Peabody Award in 2019.

[[Suppressive fire]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology

In the military, suppressive fire (also called "covering fire") is shooting that hinders an enemy force so they cannot fulfill their mission (what they were trying to do). This hindrance usually only works for as long as the machine gun or artillery gun is being shot.

[[Elk Point, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in South Dakota, Cities in South Dakota, 1873 establishments in Dakota Territory

Elk Point is a city in the far southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Union County, and 1,963 people lived there at the 2010 census. Elk Point became a city in 1873.

[[Primarily Obsessional OCD]]

CATEGORIES: Anxiety disorders

Primarily Obsessional Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (also called Purely Obsessional OCD) is a lesser-known form of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). For people with primarily obsessional OCD, there are less easy-to-see compulsions, compared to the compulsions that people with regular OCD have (like checking, counting, hand-washing). While people with Primarily Obsessional OCD may do rituals, they mostly take place in their mind. Primarily obsessional OCD often takes the form of horrific thoughts that pop into the person's head. These thoughts may be scary or violent.

[[Tel Aviv Bauhaus Center]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Tel Aviv, Architecture, Israeli culture, 20th century architecture

The Bauhaus Center is a gallery, shop and information center for the Bauhaus (modernist) architecture of Tel Aviv. It is a private institution, working together with public organizations such as Tel Aviv City Hall and UNESCO. It is located at 77 Dizengoff Street in the White City of Tel Aviv area.

[[Worthing, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1879 establishments in Dakota Territory

Worthing is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is in Lincoln County, about ten miles south of Sioux Falls. It became a city in 1879, and 877 people lived there at the 2010 census. Since 2010, Worthing has been the home of the LifeLight Music Festival, the largest free music festival in the world.

[[Carla Bruni]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, First Ladies of France, French models, French singers, Italian singers, People from Turin, Singer-songwriters

Carla Bruni, now known by her name of use Carla Bruni-Sarkozy (born Carla Gilberta Bruni Tedeschi; 23 December 1967 in Turin, Italy) is an Italian-French singer, songwriter and former model. From 2008 to 2012, Bruni was the First Lady of France.

She married then President of the French Republic Nicolas Sarkozy in February 2008. They have one child.

[[M4 carbine]]

CATEGORIES: 5.56 mm firearms, Assault rifles

The M4 carbine is a type of carbine used in the military. A carbine is a shorter, lighter type of rifle. It was based on the M16 rifle.

The M4 is a gas-operated, shoulder-fired weapon. The cartridges are fed into the gun with a magazine, which is a rectangular box that holds the cartridges. It has a stock that can be extended or pushed in and a 14.5 in (370 mm) barrel to make it easier for soldiers to use the weapon in confined spaces. Like the other rifles in the M16 family, it fires the .223 caliber, or 5.56mm NATO round.

The M4 can be fired in two ways, either semi-automatic (which fires one bullet when the trigger is pulled) and three-round burst (which fires three bullets very quickly when the trigger is pulled). The M4A1 can fire fully automatic instead of three-round burst. The carbine can have an M203 grenade as well as the newer M320 grenade launcher mounted on it. The M4 can be fitted with many accessories, such as night vision devices, silencers, laser pointers, telescopic sights, bipods, a shotgun, and forward hand grips.

The United States Marine Corps has ordered its officers (up to the rank of lieutenant colonel) and staff non-commissioned officers to carry the M4 carbine instead of the M9 pistol. The M4 is also widely used by police officers.

[[Montrose, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1880 establishments in Dakota Territory

Montrose is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 472 people lived there at the 2010 census. Montrose became a city in 1880.

[[Derek Walcott]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2017 deaths, Saint Lucian people, Novelists, Playwrights

Derek Alton Walcott, OBE  OCC (23 January 1930 – 17 March 2017) was a Saint Lucian poet and playwright. He was awarded the 1992 Nobel Prize in Literature. He served as Professor of poetry at the University of Essex until his death in 2017.

His works include the Homeric epic poem, Omeros (1990). In besides to having won the Nobel, Walcott has won many literary awards over the course of his career including an Obie Award in 1971 for his play Dream on Monkey Mountain, a MacArthur Foundation "genius" award, a Royal Society of Literature Award, the Queen's Medal for Poetry, and the 2011 T. S. Eliot Prize for his book of poetry, White Egrets.

Walcott was born on 23 January 1930 in Castries, Saint Lucia. 

Walcott died at his home in St. Lucia on 17 March 2017.  He was 87.

[[Colton, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1904 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in South Dakota

Colton is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 687 people lived there at the 2010 census. Colton became a city in 1904.

[[Humboldt, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Dakota, 1891 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in South Dakota

Humboldt is a town in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 589 people lived there at the 2010 census. Humboldt became a town in 1891.

[[JW-Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, Canadian guitarists, Canadian singer-songwriters, Blues guitarists, Musicians from Ontario, People from Ottawa

JW-Jones (born July 15, 1980 in Ottawa) is a Canadian blues guitarist, singer and songwriter. Jones was the first artist signed to the NorthernBlues Music label in Toronto. He released his first six recordings with the label. He still records for CrossCut Records in Europe, and has previously worked with Ruf Records in United States. In the last decade, he has released seven albums and played in 19 countries, four continents. He continues to tour extensively. Jones lives who lives in Ottawa, Ontario. He has performed at blues festivals, theatres and clubs in Canada, the United States, Europe, Russia, Australia, and Brazil.

Jones' third album with his band, My Kind Of Evil (2004), was produced by Kim Wilson (singer for The Fabulous Thunderbirds). It includes vocals from Colin James on two tracks, and Roxanne Potvin on one. Songs from the album have been played on House of Blues Radio Hour. Music reviewer Brad Wheeler from Canada's Globe and Mail newspaper praised the "graceful ability he (Jones) shows on guitar" in the album. Wheeler stated that "...the Ottawa player makes retro moves, layering swinging blues with keyboards and very noticeable horns that never dominate the fine-lined fills and lead work." The Allmusic review of My Kind of Evil, by Chris Nickson, states that "He's very good on covers, such as "I Don't Know", but his own songs — the vast majority of this disc — have plenty of life."

In May 2009, Jones' song "Parasomnia" appeared on a Guitar World featured CD, Guitar Masters Vol. 2. Other artists on the CD were B. B. King, Jimmy Page, Jeff Beck, and Carlos Santana. The Globe and Mail referred to Jones as "one of this country's top blues guitar stars". The Blues Revue Magazine stated that Jones' guitar playing is like T-Bone Walker's guitar playing. The review said that JW-Jones plays solo melodies like Johnny "Guitar" Watson, and that his guitar playing is like Clarence "Gatemouth" Brown. Billboard called Jones part of "a new wave of young talent moving onto Canada’s blues stage."

[[Parker, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in South Dakota, Cities in South Dakota, 1883 establishments in Dakota Territory

Parker is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Turner County, and 1,022 people lived there at the 2010 census. Parker became a city in 1883.

[[Freeman, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1893 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in South Dakota

Freeman is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Hutchinson County, and 1,306 people lived there at the 2010 census. Freeman became a city in 1893.

[[Midterm exam]]

CATEGORIES: Education

A midterm exam is a test given around the middle of a term in schools.

[[Survivor Series (2010)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 in American television, 2010 in professional wrestling, Sports in Miami, Florida, Survivor Series, 2010s in Miami, Florida, November 2010 events

Survivor Series (2010) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 21, 2010 at the American Airlines Arena in Miami, Florida. It was the twenty fourth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

[[Big Brother 8 (UK)]]

CATEGORIES: Big Brother seasons, 2007 British television series debuts, 2007 television seasons

Big Brother 2007 (or Big Brother 8) was the eighth series of the British reality television series Big Brother. It was shown on Channel 4. Some other, related programmes were shown on E4. The series was hosted by Davina McCall. It began on 30 May 2007, and ended 94 days later on 31 August 2007. Ratings for this series were very low compared to other series.

On the first night of the show, all the housemates who entered were female. Male housemates were sent in later, at intervals over the first two weeks. Another five housemates (three females, and two males) entered the house on the 59th day. In total, there were 22 housemates in total in this series of Big Brother.

The series was eventually won by housemate Brian Belo. He won £100,000.

[[Hide (unit)]]

CATEGORIES: Units of area, History of England, Anglo-Saxons

The hide was a unit of land measurement. Everywhere in Anglo-Saxon England except Kent it was the land held by a peasant and his family. Originally it was the amount of land necessary to support one household. The amount of land that made up one hide would vary from one part of Britain to another. This was because the quality of soil for growing food would be different. In places where the soil was very rich, a hide of land would be smaller. Where the soil was poor the hide would be larger. It was never a standard using fixed measurements. Later in Anglo-Saxon England a hide became a unit on which to base payment of tribute or tax. The hide was also used to determine public obligations. This could be defending the local castle or providing soldiers for the local militia. Tenants paid rent based on how many hides they farmed.

[[Niggers in the White House]]

CATEGORIES: 1900s in the United States, 20th-century American poems

"Niggers in the White House" was a racist poem that first appeared in many American newspapers between 1901 and 1903. The author wrote it because he did not like Booker T. Washington, an African-American political leader, teacher and author, attending a dinner at the White House. Washington had been invited by President Theodore Roosevelt, who was white. Many years later, in 1929, the poem appeared again. This was after African-American congressman Oscar DePriest's wife went to a tea for congressional wives at the White House. She had been invited by First Lady Lou Hoover. Many white people, especially in the Southern United States, did not like either visit. They held the opinion then that African-American people should not be involved in government affairs.

The poem has fourteen stanzas. Each stanza has four lines. The second and fourth line of each stanza rhymes. The bad word "nigger" is seen many times in the poem. Nobody knows who wrote it.

[[Titanium alloy]]

CATEGORIES: Alloys

Titanium alloys are metals which contain a mixture of titanium and other chemical elements. They have very high tensile strength and toughness. They are light in weight, resist corrosion very strongly and can withstand extreme temperatures.

However, the cost of both raw materials and processing is very high. Therefore, their use is limited to military applications, aircraft, spacecraft, medical devices, connecting rods on expensive sports cars and some high quality sports equipment and consumer electronics.

[[Carbine]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

A carbine is a lighter, shorter type of rifle. The smaller size and lighter weight of carbines makes them easier to handle. They are often issued to high-mobility troops such as special-ops soldiers and paratroopers. Also they can be used by mounted or other non-infantry personnel who do not need full-sized rifles.

The U.S. M4 carbine is a classic example. Continuous-fire versions may also be described as submachine guns

[[Monty Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, People from Saginaw, Michigan, American professional wrestlers, American football linebackers, Buffalo Bills players, New England Patriots players, Sportspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Former WWE wrestlers, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Monty Brown (born April 13, 1970) is a retired American professional wrestler and American football linebacker. He is best known for working with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) under the ring name Marcus Cor Von. He wrestled on their ECW brand. He also worked for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling from 2002 to 2006.

Before becoming a professional wrestler, Brown played football at Ferris State University. He graduated and was picked up by the Buffalo Bills. He played 3 seasons with the Bills including Super Bowl XXVIII in 1994. He then played a season with the New England Patriots before retiring because of an ankle injury and to train to become a professional wrestler.

[[Ingrid Newkirk]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, American animal rights activists, Living people

Ingrid Newkirk (born June 11, 1949) is an animal rights activist. She started People For the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) in 1980 with Alex Pacheco. It is the world's biggest animal rights organization. In 2007 HBO showed a documentary called I Am an Animal: The Story of Ingrid Newkirk and PETA.

In 2010 Jezebel called Newkirk 'The Worst Person in the World'.

[[Body armour]]

CATEGORIES: Armour, Clothing

Modern body armour (personal armour/armor or body armor) is  protective clothing. It is designed to absorb and/or deflect slashing, bludgeoning, and penetrating attacks.

It was first used to protect soldiers, today it is used to protect riot police, private security guards and bodyguards. There are two different types of armour. There is regular non-plated personal armor used by most police, security guards and bodyguards. There is also hard-plate reinforced personal armor, which is used by combat soldiers, police tactical units and hostage rescue teams.

Armour is certainly very ancient, but it was little used in infantry warfare for quite a long time, with the exception of helmets. From about the 18th century to the Vietnam war, men fought relatively unprotected. The weight and cost of effective armour meant it was no longer practical to have infantrymen armoured.

The invention of carbon fibre, modern hard ceramics and various plastic compounds are suitable for light armour which is effective in many circumstances. Kevlar, Technora and Nomex are Aramids, which are long-chain aromatic polyamides. They are used to make bullet resistant vests and bullet resistant face masks. The PASGT helmet and vest used by United States military forces since the early 1980s both have Kevlar as a main component, as do their replacements. Most of these items have padding on the inside to act as shock-absorbers, and to increase comfort during while being worn.

So, with the lighter weight and increased stopping-power of personal armour, the modern soldier is once again protected against most of the weapons of the day.

[[Warsaw Uprising]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 in Europe, 20th century in Poland, European battles of World War II, Warsaw, August events, September 1944 events, October 1944 events

In 1944, the Polish resistance Home Army  (Armia Krajowa). rebelled against Nazi occupation of Warsaw. This rebellion is known as the Warsaw Uprising (powstanie warszawskie) today. The resistance Home Army wanted to free Warsaw from Nazi Germany. The resistance army fought against German troops for 63 days. After that, there was no chance of winning, so they surrendered. German troops killed many civilians in the city. After the uprising, the city of Warsaw was destroyed almost completely. At the time of the uprising, the Red Army was stationed on the other side of the river Vistula, which runs through the city of Warsaw. As of 2021, the question, why these troops did not take part in the fighting, is unclear. Historians have given several theories. 

The Uprising was the largest attack done by any European resistance movement of World War II. The Slovak National Uprising, which happened from 29 August to 28 October 1944. is comparable, 

[[Martin Bashir]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, English journalists

Martin Bashir (born 19 January 1963) is a British journalist. He is known for interviewing Princess Diana in 1995 and Michael Jackson in the 2003 documentary Living with Michael Jackson. That year he was voted the fifth 'worst Briton'. He started being a journalist in 1986. He worked with BBC until 1999. Then he joined ITV. In December 2010 he joined MSNBC. He hosted Martin Bashir on MSNBC on weekdays.

On 15 November 2013, Bashir made people angry when he said on his MSNBC show Clear the Air that someone should defecate in Sarah Palin's mouth and called her a 'world-class idiot'. In December 2013 Bashir stopped working at the MSNBC.

Bashir was born to Pakistani parents in Wandsworth in South London. He speaks English and Urdu.

[[Chaff (countermeasure)]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons

In the military, chaff are small thin pieces of metal which are shot out of an airplane or warship. These thin strips of metal make it harder for enemy radar to detect where the plane or ship is. The thin strips of metal also make it harder for radar-guided missiles to hit the plane or warship. The chaff tricks the enemy and helps to keep the plane or warship safe.

[[Flare (countermeasure)]]

CATEGORIES: Weapons, Military aircraft

In the military, a flare countermeasure is a very hot, burning object which is shot out from a warplane or helicopter. Warplanes and helicopters shoot out flares if the enemy has fired a heat-seeking missile at them. The flare may trick the missile into hitting into the hot, burning flare. This helps to protect warplanes and helicopters from enemy missiles. If a warplane or helicopter has had a radar-guided missile fired at them, they may shoot out chaff. Chaff is thin strips or fibres of metal which make if hard for the enemy missile to target the plane or helicopter.

[[Terry stop]]

CATEGORIES: Law enforcement in the United States, Law enforcement techniques

In the United States, a Terry stop is a when police stop a person and quickly check the person's clothes for guns or knives. To do this action, the police officer has to have a good reason to think that the person may be involved in a crime.

[[Traffic calming]]

CATEGORIES: Traffic

Traffic calming measures are changes to a road to make car drivers slow down and to make the road safer for people who have to walk across the road. Some traffic calming techniques include installing speed bumps and narrowing roads, which make drivers slow down. Another way to make drivers slow down is to set speed limits. These speed limits can be enforced with automatic speed cameras. These cameras take photographs of people who are driving too fast. Another way to slow drivers down is to make curbs wider.

[[Earl (mixtape)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Hip hop albums

Earl is the debut mixtape by Earl Sweatshirt. It was released on March 31, 2010 as a free digital download on Odd Future's website. The mixtape was recorded when Earl was between 15 and 16. The album is short and the lyrics are about murder, rape, drugs and critism of religion.

[[John Abbott]]

CATEGORIES: 1821 births, 1893 deaths, Canadian lawyers, Deaths from pneumonia, Mayors of Montreal, Privy Councillors (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Ontario

Sir John Joseph Caldwell Abbott, (March 12, 1821 – October 30, 1893) was the third Prime Minister of Canada. He served in the office for seventeen months, from June 16, 1891 to November 24, 1892. Through his daughter, Abbott is the great-grandfather of Canadian Academy Award-winning actor Christopher Plummer.

Abbott died on March 12, 1893 from complications of pneumonia in his Montreal, Quebec home. He was 72 years old.

[[Bike rage]]

CATEGORIES: Traffic

Bike rage refers to using bad words, bad gestures, or physcial conflict between cyclists and others on the road, including pedestrians, cyclists, motorcyclists, and drivers. Bike rage is similar to other road rage.

A bike rage event can start because a cyclist, driver, or pedestrian thinks that another road user was breaking traffic rules, or in other ways because someone felt that their safety was threatened by another road user. Some people consider that the problem is city planners have mixed bikes and cars together in the same ways and may cause lots of chances for conflict. As such, cyclists feel threatened in traffic and hard done by and under attack. 

An article in Toronto Life magazine argued that the source of the problem bike rage is neither the problem of drivers nor the problem of cyclists, but the environment in which they interact. A possible explanation between cyclists and drivers is the anonymity of the big city; all the cyclists and drivers know they will never meet each other again.

[[Trevor McDonald]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, English journalists, Living people

Sir Trevor McDonald OBE (born George McDonald on 16 August 1939) is a British journalist. He was ITN's first black journalist.

In 1992, McDonald became the presenter of the ITV News at Ten. In 1999 the programme ended. 

In 1999 Tonight with Trevor McDonald started on ITV. In 2007 McDonald stopped presenting the programme. It is now simply called Tonight.

He was born in Trinidad. In 1969 he started working for the BBC.

[[Jeremy Kyle]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, English television presenters, People from Reading, Berkshire, Television personalities from Berkshire

Jeremy Kyle (born 7 July 1965) is an English television presenter. He is best known for presenting British talk show The Jeremy Kyle Show from 2005 to 2019. He also hosted the American version until September 2013.

He was born in Reading, Berkshire. He went to the Reading Blue Coat School. He married Carla Germaine in 2003.

In late 2007 Kyle started a radio show called The Jeremy Kyle Show.

In 2009 his first book, I'm Only Being Honest, was published. In it he talks about 'Broken Britain'.

On 11 October 2011 a game show called High Stakes started on ITV. Kyle presented the show until it ended 13 December 2011.

In Blackpool's Madame Tussauds there is a wax figure of Kyle.

[[Vandal-resistant switch]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic switches

Vandal-resistant switches (sometimes referred to as vandal-proof switches or tamper-proof switches) are electrical switches that are designed to be so strong that people cannot break them. To make switches strong, they are often made out of stainless steel or other durable metals. Buttons are often made so that they do not come very far out. This makes it harder for vandals to pry them out with a screwdriver. Examples of vandal-resistant switches include the buttons that you press to cross the street, the buttons on bank machines, and the buttons on public telephones.

[[Zine]]

CATEGORIES: Publications

A zine (a short way of referring to a fanzine) is a photocopied newspaper or magazine about music, politics, or another issue. Zines are usually photocopied by hand, and made by amateurs who do not have training in journalism. Only a small number of copies of a zine are usually made. Zines are often sold at record stores. A music zine might include reviews of line music shows, interviews with bands, and advertisements for CDs. Zines were an important part of the punk rock and hardcore punk subcultures.

[[Shed]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures

A shed is a simple, single-storey structure in a garden which is used for storage. Some people use their shed to do hobbies or as a workshop. There are many types of sheds. Some sheds are small open-sided structures with tin rooves. Some sheds are large structures framed by wood. Some sheds are made out of plastic. Sheds used on farms can be large and tall structures. Sheds can be made with metal panels attached to a metal frame, plastic or vinyl panels attached to a frame, all-wood construction.

[[Water politics]]

CATEGORIES: Water, Politics

Water politics are the politics related to whether people have enough fresh drinking water (see water scarcity). There is less fresh water available for many reasons. One reason is that some industries use huge amounts of water. Another problem is water pollution, which occurs when dangerous chemicals or human waste gets into the water. Currently, 40% of the people in the world do not have enough fresh water. More than 2.2 million people died in 2000 from diseases that were caused by drinking polluted, dirty water or drought.

[[M-60 machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Machine guns

The M60 is a type of American-made machine gun. The M60 fires 7.62mm NATO cartridges. The cartridges are fed into the gun using a belt. The United States Army started to use the M60 in 1957. It has been used by all the branches of the U.S. military. The United States Army used the M60 during the Vietnam War, Gulf War, Afghanistan War and the Iraq War. Recently, the U.S. military has started to replace the M60 with the M240 machine gun.

[[Lauren Laverne]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, English guitarists, English television presenters, People from Sunderland

Lauren Cecilia Fisher (born 28 April 1978), known as Lauren Laverne, is an English television presenter.

When she was at college she started a rock band called Kenickie with her brother Peter, Marie Nixon and Emma Jackson. The band broke up in 1998. In 2000 she sang on the single "Don't Falter" by Mint Royale. It reached No.15 in the UK Singles Chart.

In 2010 her first novel was Candypop – Candy and the Broken Biscuits was published by HarperCollins. From 2010-2013 Laverne presented 10 O'Clock Live.

She writes a style column for The Guardian.

[[M240 machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: 7.62 mm firearms, Medium machine guns, Machine guns of the United States

The M240 machine gun is a type of machine gun. It fires the 7.62mm NATO cartridge. It is gas-operated and the bullets are fed into the chamber by a belt. The M240 has been used by the United States Armed Forces since the late-1970s. It is used a lot by infantry. The M240 is also mounted onto ground vehicles, boats, and helicopters.

[[Ms. Marvel (Kamala Khan)]]

CATEGORIES: Marvel Comics superheroes

Kamala Khan is a fictional character appearing in comic books published by Marvel Comics. She first appeared in Captain Marvel #17 (November 2013). Khan is a 16-year-old Pakistani-American Muslim. She is from the suburbs of New Jersey. She can shapeshift. She was made by Sana Amanat, Steve Wacker, and G. Willow Wilson.

[[Clonewheel organ]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic musical instruments

A clonewheel organ is an electronic musical instrument that copies the sound of the Hammond organ. The first group of clonewheel organs designed used synthesizer sounds. In the 1990s and 2000s, clonewheel organs began using sampling or digital techniques.

[[Robert Peston]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, English journalists, Living people, Biographers

Robert James Kenneth Peston (born 25 April 1960) is a British journalist. In 2005 his biography of Gordon Brown, Brown's Britain was published. In 2013, How Do We Fix This Mess?: The Economic Price of Having it All, and the Route to Lasting Prosperity was published. On 17 October 2013 he was made the Economics Editor for BBC News.

[[Joseph Paul Franklin]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2013 deaths, Executed American serial killers, People executed by lethal injection, People from Mobile, Alabama, People with schizophrenia

Joseph Paul Franklin (April 13, 1950 – November 20, 2013) was an American serial killer. He tried to kill Larry Flynt, a magazine publisher, in 1978 and Vernon Jordan, Jr., the civil rights activist, in 1980. He has been given six life sentences. He lived at Potosi Correctional Center on death row. On November 20, 2013 he was executed at 8:30am with Propofol, a lethal drug, for killing a Jewish man outside a synagogue.

He was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. Franklin said that he thought he deserved to die for his crimes. Larry Flynt wrote in an essay published in the Hollywood Reporter, “I do not want to see him die.” Franklin was executed on November 20, 2013 by lethal injection.

[[Canistota, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1883 establishments in Dakota Territory

Canistota is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 656 people lived there at the 2010 census. Canistota became a city in 1883.

[[Bridgewater, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1889 establishments in South Dakota

Bridgewater is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 492 people lived there at the 2010 census. Bridgewater became a city in 1889.

[[Garretson, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1891 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in South Dakota

Garretson is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 1,166 people lived there at the 2010 census. Garretson became a city in 1891. A popular place in the city is Devil's Gulch, the place where Jesse James jumped over a wide cliff on his horse and got away from the police after trying to rob a bank in Northfield, Minnesota, in 1876. Garretson gets its name from a banker named A.S. Garretson.

[[Survivor Series (2007)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 in American television, 2007 in professional wrestling, Sports in Miami, Florida, Survivor Series, 2007 in Florida, 21st century in Miami, Florida, November events

Survivor Series (2007) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 18, 2007 at the American Airlines Arena in Miami, Florida. It was the twenty first Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

[[Iyengar Yoga]]

CATEGORIES: Meditation, Yoga

Iyengar Yoga is a type of yoga named after and developed by B. K. S. Iyengar (1918-2014). It is a form of Hatha Yoga. It emphasizes detail, precision and alignment. It focuses performing postures (poses) and breath control. This type of yoga helps to develop strength, mobility and stability. 

B. K. S. Iyengar has created over 200 yoga poses. Students start with simple poses and move on to more complex ones.

Iyengar Yoga often uses belts, blocks, and blankets to help people get into the postures. By using belts, blocks and blankets, people are less likely to hurt themselves.

[[Chinatown (1974 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 drama movies, 1970s crime drama movies, 1974 mystery movies, Academy Award winning movies, American crime drama movies, American mystery movies, English-language movies, Film noir, Golden Globe Award winning movies, Incest in movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies set in the 1930s, Mystery drama movies, Mystery thriller movies, United States National Film Registry movies, Movies directed by Roman Polanski, Paramount movies

Chinatown is a 1974 American movie directed by Roman Polanski, written by Robert Towne, and starring Jack Nicholson, Faye Dunaway, John Hillerman and John Huston. The movie is based on a true story about arguments that people had over the water politics in 1937 Los Angeles. It is considered to be a film noir. It was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the United States National Film Registry in 1991. The movie is often considered to be one of the greatest movies ever made. During the 1975 Academy Awards, an Oscar award was given to Robert Towne for Best Original Screenplay. The Golden Globe Awards gave the movie awards for Best Drama, Best Director, Best Actor, and Best Screenplay. The American Film Institute says that it is the second-best of all mystery movies.

[[All Souls College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1438 establishments, 1430s establishments in Europe, 15th century establishments in England

All Souls College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1438 by Henry VI and the Archbishop of Canterbury Henry Chichele.  The full name of the college is "The Warden and the College of the Souls of all Faithful People deceased in the University of Oxford".

All Souls does not have any undergraduate students. It only has graduate students.

All Souls is one of the richest colleges at Oxford.

[[Quisling]]

CATEGORIES: Pejoratives

[[Applied behavior analysis]]

CATEGORIES: Human behavior, Psychology

Applied behavior analysis (ABA) is a way to help organisms change their behavior, and to identify the environmental contingencies that result in this behavior change. ABA, the application of behavior analysis, is based on the scientific approach known as radical behaviorism, which views covert events as behavior that are to be subjected to the same conditions as overt behavior. ABA can be used as a treatment for animals, mental disorders, and developmental disabilities, and is based on the principles of behavior that were discovered using experiments.

[[Queen Elizabeth Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Canada

The Queen Elizabeth Islands are a group of islands in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago.  They are split between Nunavut and Northwest Territories.  

In the past the islands were called Parry Archipelago or Parry Islands.  They were named after British Arctic explorer Sir William Parry.  In 1953 the islands were renamed after Elizabeth II.

According to the Atlas of Canada there are 34 large and 2,092 small islands in the archipelago. Many of the islands are among the largest in the world.  The largest island in the archipelago is Ellesmere Island.

Less than 400 people live on the Queen Elizabeth Islands.

[[Cristobal Tapia de Veer]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Multi-instrumentalists, Composers, People from Santiago

Juan Cristobal Tapia de Veer also known as Cristo, is a film and television score composer, arranger, producer and multi-instrumentalist based in Montreal, QC, Canada. He is mostly known for his music to the British 6-part drama UTOPIA for which he won an RTS Craft Award in the best original score category in 2013.

[[Canova, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Dakota, 1898 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in South Dakota

Canova is a town in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Miner County, and 105 people lived there at the 2010 census. Canova became a town in 1898.

[[Monroe, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Dakota, 1901 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in South Dakota

Monroe is a town in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 160 people lived there at the 2010 census. Monroe became a town in 1901.

[[Eruption (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s music groups, 1980s music groups, Disco groups

Eruption was a popular disco, R&B and soul band in the 1970s and 1980s. It was created by German producer Frank Farian.

[[Survivor Series (2006)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in American television, 2006 in professional wrestling, Sports in Philadelphia, Survivor Series, 2000s in Philadelphia, 2006 in the United States

Survivor Series (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 26, 2006 at the Wachovia Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was the twentieth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

[[One Way Ticket]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 songs

One Way Ticket is song which was recorded by Eruption. 

The song was reached #1 on Austria and Switzerland music charts. 

This song is a cover version of song One Way Ticket (To The Blues) by Neil Sedaka.

[[Elitserien (bandy)]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 establishments in Sweden, Bandy in Sweden

Elitserien (Elitserien i bandy) is the men's bandy top division of Sweden since the 2007–2008 season. It consist of 14 teams, and is followed up by the Swedish championships playoffs, ending with one single final game.

[[Allsvenskan (bandy)]]

CATEGORIES: Bandy in Sweden

Allsvenskan (Allsvenskan i bandy) is since the 2007–2008 the second highest division of men's bandy in Sweden. It is made up of 24 teams in two regional groups.

[[Allsvenskan (disambiguation)]]

Allsvenskan is the highest league of Swedish association football for men.

Allsvenskan (the all Swedish) is also the name of several Swedish sport leagues:

[[European Cup (bandy)]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 establishments in Europe, Bandy, Sports competitions

The European Cup is an annual bandy club competition between teams from Europe. The first edition of the tournament was held in 1974.

[[Sweden women's national football team]]

CATEGORIES: European women's national association football teams, Football in Sweden

Sweden women's national football team (Sveriges damlandslag i fotboll) represents Sweden on the women's side in association football. Sweden won the 1984 UEFA European Championship. In the FIFA World Cup, the team ended up second in 2003, and won the bronze medals in 1991 and 2011.

[[Homeless shelter]]

CATEGORIES: Homelessness

A homeless shelter is a place for homeless people to take refuge. Shelters provide safety and protection from exposure to the weather. These shelters also provide food, warmth, and the basic needs for any person.

[[Determinant]]

CATEGORIES: Linear algebra

The determinant of a square matrix is a scalar (a number) that indicates how that matrix behaves. It can be calculated from the numbers in the matrix.

[[Philip the Arab]]

CATEGORIES: Roman Emperors, 200s births, 249 deaths

Philip the Arab (circa 204 – September 249) was Roman emperor from 244 to 249 AD.

[[Loneliness]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Loneliness is a sad emotion that a person can feel if they are isolated or feel a sense of lack of friends and family members. Loneliness can make people feel anxious.

People can feel lonely even if they are surrounded by a lot of other people. Loneliness can occur even to people in marriages, relationships, families and successful jobs. One cause of loneliness is a lack of friends during childhood and teenage years. Loneliness can also be caused by chronic depression. Loneliness can also be caused when a relationship or marriage ends.

Loneliness is a theme in literature, going back to the Epic of Gilgamesh. 

[[Fuzz bass]]

CATEGORIES: Music technology, Musical instruments

Fuzz bass (also called "bass overdrive" or "bass distortion") is a style of playing the electric bass. When a person plays fuzz bass, the bass sounds buzzy and distorted. Fuzz bass is created by turning up the volume on a bass amplifier very high, or by using an electronic fuzz pedal.  In the mid-1960s, some bass players began to play fuzz bass. The Beatles' 1965 song "Think for Yourself" (from Rubber Soul) has fuzz bass. The 1965 Rolling Stones song "Under My Thumb" has fuzz bass.

[[Redirect]]

Redirect may refer to:

[[Primulaceae]]

CATEGORIES: Plant families, Primulaceae

The Primulaceae are a family of herbaceous flowering plants. It has about 24 genera. It includes some garden plants and wildflowers. It is also called the primrose family.

[[SOCATA TBM-700]]

CATEGORIES: Civil aircraft, French military aircraft

The SOCATA TB700 is a light transport aircraft. It is used by both civilian and military operators. It is built in Tarbes, France by SOCATA. It is a single-turboprop aircraft built in all-metal. More than 600 were sold. TBM-850 is a modern variant.

[[The Great Gatsby (2013 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 romance movies, 2013 drama movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, American romantic drama movies, Australian drama movies, Australian romance movies, Movies set in New York City, Warner Bros. movies

The Great Gatsby is a drama movie released in 2013. It is based on the novel The Great Gatsby by F. Scott Fitzgerald.

The movie was an Australian-American production. It was directed by Baz Luhrmann. The screenplay was written by Luhrmann and Craig Pearce.

The main actors in it are Leonardo DiCaprio, Tobey Maguire, Carey Mulligan, Joel Edgerton and Isla Fisher. This movie also has Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan in a cameo appearance.

[[Siege of Tobruk]]

CATEGORIES: North African battles of World War II, 1941, 20th century in Libya, Sieges

The Siege of Tobruk was a battle in Libya during the North African Campaign of World War II. It lasted for 241 days. The battle was between Axis and Allied Forces. The battle started on 11 April 1941, when Tobruk was besieged by an Italian and Nazi German force commanded by Lieutenant General Erwin Rommel. The siege continued for 240 days up to 27 November 1941. On that date, the Allied 8th Army took control of Tobruk.

The reason that both sides wanted to control Tobruk is that it had a deep protected harbour.  This made it a good place for ships to seek shelter.  As well, the Italians had built fortifications.  There were also escarpments and cliffs near Tobruk, which helped to protect the town from attack.

The Allies wanted to control Tobruk so that they could defend Egypt and the Suez Canal.   When the Axis armies could no longer use the port at Tobruk, they had to bring in supplies at the distant port of Tripoli.  This required the Axis armies to bring the supplies by truck through 1500 of desert.  After the Allies won Tobruk, the Axis armies continuted fighting to take it back.  The Axis armies fired many artillery shells at Tobruk and dropped many bombs on the town.

[[Tobruk]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Libya, Ports and harbours

Tobruk is a port city on Libya's eastern Mediterranean coast. It is near the border with Egypt. It is the capital of the Butnan District. In 2011, it had a population of about 120,000. There was once an ancient Greek colony at Tobruk. Later, the Romans built a fortress there.  By 1911, Tobruk had become an Italian military base. During World War II, in a battle called the Siege of Tobruk, Allied forces captured the town. After the war, Tobruk was rebuilt. During the 1960s, a port terminal was built at Tobruk.

[[Battle of Berlin (RAF campaign)]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 in Europe, 1944 in Europe, 1940s in Berlin, Battles involving Australia, Battles involving Canada, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving Poland, Battles involving the United Kingdom, European battles of World War II

The Battle of Berlin was the British bombing raid on Berlin during the Second World War from November 1943 to March 1944. British bombers had new navigation aids to help them, such as the new H2S radar, and Bomber Command made 16 attacks on the city.

Although the bombings were mostly done by British bombers, Australian and Canadian bombers also flew to Germany.

The Battle of Berlin was considered a failure for the Royal Air Force (RAF). It lost 1,047 bombers, with 1,682 more damaged, and over 7,000 air crew members. Also, the bombings did not cause the Germans to give up but left 450,000 of them homeless.

[[Battle of Guam (1941)]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific battles of World War II, 1941, 1940s in Oceania, History of Guam

The First Battle of Guam was a battle fought during the Pacific War in World War II. It took place on 8 December 1941 on Guam in the Mariana Islands. The battle was between Japan and the United States. The American forces on Guam were defeated by Japanese forces. The Japanese forces then occupied the island until the Second Battle of Guam in 1944.

[[Survivor Series (2005)]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 in American television, 2005 in professional wrestling, Sports in Detroit, Michigan, Survivor Series, 2000s in Detroit, Michigan

Survivor Series (2005) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 27, 2005 at the Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan. It was the nineteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

[[Bohol (island)]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of the Philippines

Bohol is the tenth-largest island of the Philippines and the main island of the Bohol province. It is part of the Region VII (Central Visayas) in the Visayas island group.

The Philippine Tarsier, one of the smallest primate in the world, is one endemic animal of southern Philippines, including the island of Bohol.

[[Congressional Record]]

CATEGORIES: Legislative branch of the United States government

The Congressional Record is the official record of the United States Congress. It is published by the United States Government Printing Office. It is issued when the United States Congress is in session. Indexes are printed about every two weeks. At the end of a session of Congress, the daily editions are assembled into bound volumes creating permanent editions. The Congressional Record is similar to Hansards, which report on the parliamentary debates in the UK's Westminster system of government.

[[Exclusionary zoning]]

CATEGORIES: Urban planning, Discrimination

Exclusionary zoning is the use of zoning laws to exclude certain types of people from a community. Exclusionary zoning laws began to be used in the United States in the late 19th century. Exclusionary zoning rules are still used today across the country. A common type of exclusionary zoning rule is a minimum lot size rule. This type of rule makes it hard for poor families to build a house on a small lot that they could afford. Exclusionary zoning rules make it hard for poor families to find housing in a community.

[[Battle of the Coral Sea]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 in Oceania, Battles involving Australia, Battles involving Japan, Battles involving the United States, Pacific battles of World War II, 1940s in Oceania, History of the Solomon Islands, History of Papua New Guinea, May events

The Battle of the Coral Sea was a battle fought from May 4, 1942 to May 8, 1942. It was a major naval battle in the Pacific Ocean during World War II. The battle was between the Japanese Navy and Allied naval and air forces from the United States and Australia. The battle was the first battle between aircraft carriers. It was also the first naval battle in which the warships of neither side actually saw the warships of the other side. Instead, each side sent planes to attack the ships of the other side.

Japanese forces made a plan to invade and occupy Port Moresby in New Guinea and Tulagi in the Solomon Islands. When the U.S. discovered this plan, it sent two Navy aircraft carrier groups and a combined Australian–American cruiser force.

On 3–4 May, Japanese forces invaded and occupied Tulagi. The Japanese aircraft carriers entered the Coral Sea to try to destroy the Allied naval forces.

On 7 May, the carrier forces from the two sides sent planes to attack the ships of the other side. The first day, the U.S. sank the Japanese light carrier Shōhō, while the Japanese sank a U.S. destroyer. The next day, the Japanese carrier Shōkaku was badly damaged, and the U.S. carriers Lexington and the Yorktown were damaged. Since both sides suffered heavy losses in aircraft and carriers, the two fleets stopped the battle.

The Japanese sank more ships than the U.S. However, the battle was considered a victory for the Allies because the Japanese forces were not able to capture the locations they were hoping to occupy.  As well, the Japanese carriers Shōkaku and Zuikaku were not able to fight in the Battle of Midway, which helped the U.S. to win there.  Japan's losses of carriers meant that they could not invade Port Moresby.  Two months later, the Allies launched the Guadalcanal Campaign.

[[Extreme Noise Terror]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 establishments in the United Kingdom, British musical groups

Extreme Noise Terror (often abbreviated to ENT) are a British crust punk / grindcore band originally formed in Ipswich, England in 1985. The band are one of the earliest European grindcore bands. They also helped to create the crustgrind subgenre.

They are one of the first hardcore punk bands to use two vocalists. They also recorded a number of sessions for BBC Radio 1 DJ John Peel. The band's songs have political lyrics, grinding guitars, and very fast tempos.

[[Foreign policy of the United States]]

CATEGORIES: International relations, Politics of the United States

The foreign policy of the United States is the way in which the United States acts towards other countries. U.S. foreign policy also involves setting out how U.S. organizations, corporations, and individual citizens should act towards foreign countries.  

The United States has a lot of power in the world for several reasons. The U.S. has a $15 trillion economy and approximately a quarter of the global Gross Domestic Product.  The U.S. also has a defense budget of $711 billion. This is about 43% of military spending in the world. The U.S. has a powerful military that it can send out to protect countries or locations that are considered important to U.S. foreign policy.  

The U.S. Secretary of State is the same type of job as the job of foreign minister of other countries. The Secretary of State is responsible for diplomacy with other countries. Today, Antony Blinken is the U.S.'s Secretary of State.  

The President of the United States has the highest authority over foreign policy. 

The United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs aims to control nuclear technology and nuclear hardware; foster commercial relations with foreign nations; and safeguard American business abroad. The Committee also watches over international agreements about commodities, international education, and the protection of American citizens abroad.

U.S. foreign policy includes defining what actions and choices are in the best national interest. U.S. foreign policy also includes the strategies that are chosen to lead to policy goals. The goals of the foreign policy of the United States are to create a more secure, democratic, and prosperous world. The U.S. aims to achieve this goal for the benefit of the American people and the international community. 

U.S. foreign policy and foreign aid have been the subject of much debate, praise and criticism both from within the U.S. and from other countries.

[[John Laurie]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1980 deaths, Deaths from emphysema, Disease-related deaths in Buckinghamshire, People from Dumfries, Scottish movie actors, Scottish stage actors, Scottish television actors

John Paton Laurie (25 March 1897 – 23 June 1980) was a Scottish actor who was known for his role as James Frazer in the British sitcom Dad's Army. 

Laurie was born on 25 March 1897 in Dumfries, Dumfriesshire, Scotland. He was married three times. He had one daughter. Laurie died on 23 June 1980 in his Chalfont St Peter, Buckinghamshire, England home from emphysema, aged 83 His ashes were scattered into the English Channel.

[[Codognè]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Italy, Settlements in Veneto

Codognè is a town in Veneto. There are 5300 people living there. It is near Venice and the Dolomite Alps. The beaches of the Adriatic Sea are also nearby.

[[Arnold Ridley]]

CATEGORIES: 1896 births, 1984 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English playwrights, Actors from Somerset

William Arnold Ridley, OBE (7 January 1896 – 12 March 1984) was an English playwright and actor. He is known for his play The Ghost Train and for playing the elderly Private Charles Godfrey in the British sitcom Dad's Army (1968–77).

Ridley was born on 7 January 1896 in Bath, Somerset, England. He was married to Althea Parker from 1945 until his death in 1984. Ridley died on 12 March 1984 in Hillington, London, England from complications from a fall, aged 88.

[[Svalbard in fiction]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian culture, Fiction

Novelists, screenwriters and filmmakers have set their works in Svalbard, an archipelago in the Arctic which is the northernmost part of Norway. Fictional works about Svalbard often make reference to its Arctic climate, the isolation of the archipelago and the natural beauty of its vast glaciers, mountains and fjords.

[[James Beck]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 1973 deaths, Deaths from pancreatitis, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from London

Stanley James Carroll Beck (21 February 1929 – 6 August 1973) was an English actor. He is best remembered for his role as Private Joe Walker, the cockney spiv in the popular BBC sitcom Dad's Army.

Beck was born on 21 February 1929 in Islington, London, England. He was married to Kay Beck until his death in 1973. Beck died on 6 August 1973 from pancreatitis in Roehampton, Wandsworth, London, England, aged 44.

[[Ian Lavender]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Actors from Birmingham, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Arthur Ian Lavender (born 16 February 1946), better known as  Ian Lavender, is an English stage, movie and television actor. He is best known for his role as Private Frank Pike in the BBC comedy series Dad's Army. He is the last surviving cast member to have played one of the seven main characters within the platoon.

[[Survivor Series (2004)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 in American television, 2004 in professional wrestling, Sports in Cleveland, Ohio, Survivor Series, 2000s in Cleveland, Ohio

Survivor Series (2004) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 14, 2004 at the Gund Arena in Cleveland, Ohio. It was the eighteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

[[Isaiah Wohlgemuth]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 deaths, American rabbis, German Jews, Holocaust survivors, Jewish American academics, Naturalized citizens of the United States

Isaiah Wohlgemuth (September 15, 1915 - January 6, 2008) wrote a widely read book, A Guide to Jewish Prayer.  He was from Germany and came to the United States after World War II. He studied at a religious school in Berlin.  He was ordained as a rabbi.  His synagogue was destroyed.  The building was burned on Kristallnacht.  He was imprisoned in a concentration camp.  As soon as the war was over, he came to the United States and lived in Boston.  In Boston he went back to school.  He studied for many years and received a doctorate (an advanced degree) in education.   He taught students in Boston for more than 50 years.  Because he was a rabbi and had a doctorate, he was called "Rabbi Dr. Wohlegemuth." 

Rabbi Wohlgemuth, died January 6, 2008. He had Parkinson's disease. 

[[Forever, Michael]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson albums, 1975 albums

Forever, Michael is the fourth studio album by Michael Jackson. It was released in 1975. It was his last album to be released by Motown Records. The album was produced by  Edward Holland, Jr., Brian Holland, Hal Davis, Freddie Perren, and Sam Brown III.

[[Got to Be There]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson albums, 1971 albums

Got to Be There is the debut studio album by Michael Jackson. It was released in 1971. It has sold over 3.2 million copies around the world. Four singles were released from the album.

[[Invincible]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 albums, Michael Jackson albums, Dance pop albums, Hip hop albums, R&B albums

Invincible is the tenth studio album by American singer-songwriter Michael Jackson. It was released in October 2001. It was the last studio album by Jackson to be released while Jackson was alive. It reached number one in eleven countries. Three singles were released from the album. The first single was "You Rock My World". "Cry" was released as the second single. It was written by R. Kelly. The Notorious B.I.G. rapped on the first song on the album, "Unbreakable". The album was unsuccessful compared to Jackson's previous albums. It sold thirteen million copies. Rolling Stone gave the album a rating of three out of five stars. "You Rock My World" was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Performance - Male.

[[Earth Song]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Earth Song" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was the third single from HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I. In 1996 Jackson performed the song at the BRIT Awards. Jarvis Cocker ran onto the stage and gave Jackson the V sign. Cocker explained, "My actions were a form of protest at the way Michael Jackson sees himself as some kind of Christ-like figure with the power of healing..."

Jackson wrote the song in a hotel in Austria when he was on tour.

It was the last song ever performed by Jackson. The video was filmed in the Amazon Rainforest, Karlovac, Tanzania, and New York. "Earth Song" is Jackson's best-selling single in the UK. 

The song was performed at the 2010 Grammy Awards by Jennifer Hudson, Carrie Underwood, Smokey Robinson, Celine Dion and Usher.

[[Heal the World]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1991 songs

"Heal the World" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as a single from his album Dangerous. The video does not have Jackson in it. In a 2001 Internet chat with fans, Jackson said "Heal the World" is the song he was most proud to have created. In the documentary Living With Michael Jackson, he said that he wrote the song in his "Giving Tree" at his Neverland Ranch. It reached No.1 in Spain. 

Jackson performed the song at the Super Bowl XXVII half-time show.

In 1992 Jackson made Heal the World Foundation, named after the song.

[[Black or White]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1991 songs

"Black or White" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the first single from Jackson's eighth album Dangerous on November 11, 1991. Slash plays guitar at the start. Michael wrote the song with Bill Bottrell. It reached number one in the United States.

In 1992, Weird Al Yankovic made a song called "Snack All Night". The song was never released, but he performed it at a concert.  

[[Happy (Michael Jackson song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Happy" is a song by Michael Jackson. It is the fourth song on his third album Music & Me. It was released as a single in Australia in 1973. It was written by Michel Legrand and

Smokey Robinson.

[[Girlfriend (Wings song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 songs

"Girlfriend" is a song written by Paul McCartney. It was originally recorded by his band Wings in 1978. Michael Jackson covered the song on his 1979 album Off the Wall. It was released in the UK as the album's fifth single.

[[The Way You Make Me Feel]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"The Way You Make Me Feel" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was the third single from Jackson's seventh album Bad. It was produced by Quincy Jones. Like the two singles before it, it reached number 1 in the Billboard Hot 100. It was also number 1 in Spain. He performed the song at the 1988 Grammy Awards. After Jackson died in 2009 the song entered the charts again.

[[Man in the Mirror]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Man in the Mirror" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was written by Siedah Garrett

and Glen Ballard. It was released as the fourth single from Jackson's seventh album, Bad. It was nominated for Record of the Year at the Grammy Awards. It reached number one in the Billboard Hot 100. 

In 2009 Michael Jackson died and the song entered the charts again. It reached number two in the UK Singles Chart. This was much higher than when the song was first released in 1988.

[[Dirty Diana]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Dirty Diana" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the fifth single from Bad April 18, 1988. It is about groupies. Steve Stevens plays guitar in it.

[[Another Part of Me]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1988 songs

"Another Part of Me" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was in Jackson's 1986 3-D film Captain EO. It was released as the sixth single from Jackson's seventh album Bad on July 11, 1988. "Another Part of Me" was not going to be on Bad. But after Jackson's manager Frank DiLeo danced along to the song, it was decided that the song would be featured on the album. The song reached number eleven in the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Smooth Criminal]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1988 songs

"Smooth Criminal" is a song written by Michael Jackson. It is the theme song of Jackson's 1988 movie Moonwalker. It reached number 1 in the Netherlands, Flanders, and Spain.

On April 10, 2006 it was released again as a single from the Visionary: The Video Singles box-set. It was number 1 in Spain again.

In 2001, Alien Ant Farm released a cover version of the song. It was their first single. It was a number-one hit.

[[Leave Me Alone]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1987 songs

"Leave Me Alone" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the eighth single from Jackson's seventh album Bad in 1987. It reached number two in the UK Singles Chart. In Ireland it reached number one. The video won a Grammy Award in 1990 for Best Short Form Music Video.

[[Liberian Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Liberian Girl" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was the ninth single from Bad. It was only released in Europe and Australia. It starts with the South African female singer Letta Mbulu saying "Nakupenda pia- nakutaka pia-mpenziwe", Swahili for "Love you too. I want you too, my love." Swahili is not actually spoken in Liberia. It reached number 1 in Ireland. The music video has lots of Jackson's celebrity friends in it. In 2009 the song came back into the charts in the UK, France, and Switzerland after Michael Jackson died. He initially wrote the song during the early 1980's  "Thriller Era" as most Moonwalkers would say it.

[[Remember the Time]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1992 songs

"Remember the Time" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the second single from his album Dangerous on January 14, 1992. It was written by Teddy Riley, Jackson, and Bernard Belle. When the single was released Jackson dedicated the song with love to Diana Ross. The music video is nine minutes long. John Singleton directed it. In 2006 the song was released again. It reached number 2 in the Spanish chart.

[[Who Is It (Michael Jackson song)]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1992 songs

"Who Is It" is a song by Michael Jackson.

It was released as the fifth single from Dangerous. Jackson wrote the song and he produced it with Bill Bottrell. He didn't perform the song in any of his tours.

[[Gone Too Soon]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Gone Too Soon" is a song made popular by Michael Jackson. It was written by Larry Gossman and Buzz Kohan.

[[Stranger in Moscow]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1995 songs

"Stranger in Moscow" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the fifth single from HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I. Jackson wrote the song in September 1993 when he was in Moscow doing his Dangerous World Tour. The single reached number one in Italy.

[[They Don't Care About Us]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1996 songs

"They Don't Care About Us" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the fourth single from HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I on March 31, 1996. Two videos were made for the song. This was the first time Jackson made two videos for a single. The first video was filmed in two places in Brazil, Dona Marta and Salvador. It was number 1 in Germany for three weeks.

Jackson was going to perform the song in his This Is It concerts in 2009.

In 2009, Northern Kings published their own version of the song on their album Rethroned.

[[Smile (Charlie Chaplin song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930s songs, Jazz music, Michael Jackson songs, 1936

"Smile" is a song with music composed by Charlie Chaplin. This music was the theme for the soundtrack of one of Chaplin's movies, Modern Times (1936). The music had no lyrics. It was originally written in D minor. John Turner and Geoffrey Parsons added lyrics and a title in 1954. The lyrics are based on lines and themes from the movie. The singer is telling the listener to smile and be optimistic. "Smile" has become a popular song since its original use in Chaplin's movie.

The song, with its lyrics, was originally sung by Nat King Cole 

in Judy Garland sang a memorable version of "Smile" on The Ed Sullivan Show in 1963. 

Michael Jackson recorded his own version of the song in March 1993 for his album HIStory: Past, Present and Future in 1995. The song was also recorded by Jimmy Durante as part of his album Jackie Barnett Presents Hello Young Lovers. Durante's version was used prominently in the teaser trailer of the 2019 film Joker and is part of the film's soundtrack.

[[You Are Not Alone]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1995 songs

"You Are Not Alone" is a song sung by Michael Jackson. R. Kelly wrote it. The video was directed by Wayne Isham. Lisa Marie Presley, who was Jackson's wife at the time, is in the video. It is the first song to go straight to number 1 on the Billboard Hot 100. It was also number one in the United Kingdom, Wallonia, France, New Zealand, Spain and Switzerland.

[[Is It Scary]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1993 songs

"Is It Scary" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was written to be on the soundtrack to Addams Family Values. It was released to radio stations and clubs on November 8, 1993.

[[Blood on the Dance Floor (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Blood on the Dance Floor" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released as the first single from Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix. Jackson made the song for his 1991 album Dangerous.

[[Hold My Hand (Michael Jackson and Akon song)]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 2010 songs

"Hold My Hand" is a song by Michael Jackson featuring Akon. It was recorded in 2008. It was released posthumously in 2010, a year after Jackson's untimely death. It reached ten in the UK Singles Chart.

[[Hollywood Tonight]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 2011 songs

"Hollywood Tonight" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released on the album Michael after Jackson's death. 

[[Behind the Mask (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Behind the Mask" is a synthpop song by the band Yellow Magic Orchestra. It was written by the band's keyboardist, Ryuichi Sakamoto. It was first produced in 1978 for a Seiko advertisement. It was later released in 1979 on the band's album Solid State Survivor. English lyrics were added by Chris Mosdell.

Michael Jackson sang his own version of it. It was released in 2010, a year after Jackson's death on the album Michael. Jackson's version was released as a single in France.

[[Too Young (popular song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s songs

"Too Young" is a popular song. The music was written by Sidney Lippman. The lyrics were written by Sylvia Dee. The song was published in 1951.

Many people have sung their own versions of it. One of the best-known versions of the song was recorded by Nat King Cole in 1951. It reached the number 1 position on the Billboard charts. A version by Donny Osmond in 1972 was also successful. It spent eight weeks on the record charts, with a peak position of #13. Michael Jackson also recorded a version of the song.

[[We Are the World]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 songs, Grammy Award winning songs, Michael Jackson songs

"We Are the World" is a song written by Michael Jackson and Lionel Richie. It was first performed by the band USA for Africa in 1985. It was produced by Quincy Jones. It was meant to raise funds and awareness for the poor in Africa. It sold over 20 million copies. 800,000 records were sent out when the single was released. They were all sold in three days. It won three Grammy Awards. At the 1985 MTV Video Music Awards it won Best Group Video and Viewer's Choice.

The video showed the song being recorded at A&M Recording Studios. It was sold as a video cassette.

The group Artists for Haiti released their own version of the song in 2010. It was titled "We Are the World 25 for Haiti". It was a charity song to help victims of the earthquake in Haiti.

[[Why (3T song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 songs

"Why" is a song by 3T. Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds. Edmonds wrote the song, and it was produced by Michael Jackson. This song was well received in European and Asian charts.

[[Heaven Can Wait (Michael Jackson song)]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 2001 songs

"Heaven Can Wait" is a song by Michael Jackson. It was released October 30, 2001 on Jackson's album Invincible. It is one of Jackson's slowest songs. Teddy Riley and Jackson wrote the song for the group BLACKstreet. Jackson asked Riley to give the song to him.

[[Fall Again]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson songs, 1999 songs

"Fall Again" is a song written and composed by Walter Afanasieff and Robin Thicke in 1999. They made it for Michael Jackson to perform. Jackson recorded a demo (draft) of the song in 1999 for his album Invincible. He never finished it, however, and the song was never added to the album. It has since been performed by many other artists.

[[Don't Be Messin' 'Round]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"Don't Be Messin' 'Round" is a song by Michael Jackson which did not make the cut for his Bad album. It was included in the track listing of Bad 25.

[[Cee-Lo Green... Is the Soul Machine]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 albums, CeeLo Green albums, Hip hop albums

 Cee-Lo Green... Is the Soul Machine is the second studio album by American singer Cee Lo Green. It was released on March 2, 2004.

[[Cee Lo's Magic Moment]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums

Cee Lo's Magic Moment is the first Christmas studio album and overall fourth studio album by American singer Cee Lo Green on October 29, 2012 in the United Kingdom. It was released in the US on October 30 by Elektra Records. Green's versions of "Mary, Did You Know?" and "What Christmas Means to Me" were well-liked by the listeners. The album has sold many copies.

[[Michael Jackson singles discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies, Michael Jackson

This page lists singles released by Michael Jackson. It is a partial list only. It includes singles released physically (those that could be bought at a record shop) and other singles released on radio. It does not include re-issues.

The list shows how successful each single was on national record charts by listing the highest position each single reached on each chart. The national charts included are for the United States, Australia, Austria, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.

Listed at the bottom are the record sales certifications for each single, which marks how many copies of each single were sold. The certifications are by RIAA, ARIA, Music Canada, IFPI Denmark, SNEP, BVMI, IFPI Norway, Recorded Music NZ, PROMUSICAE, IFPI Switzerland, and BPI.

[[Thriller]]

Thriller can refer to several things:

[[Penile cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer, Male reproductive system

Penile cancer is cancer of the penis. It is relatively rare in developed countries. In developing countries, however, it is much more common. It can be dangerous.

[[Carl Rogers]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1987 deaths, American psychologists

Carl Ransom Rogers (January 8, 1902 – February 4, 1987), was a 20th-century humanistic (client-centered) psychologist. His 1969 collection of essays, Freedom to Learn, was influential for a young generation in the late 1960s and through the 1970s. Rebellions against college teaching methods, the deschooling movement, flower power and the alternative society often referred to Roger's ideas in their various pamphlets. Rogers is regarded as the second most influential therapist (clinical psychologist) of the 20th century (behind Freud).

[[Survivor Series (2003)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 in American television, 2003 in professional wrestling, Sports in Dallas, Texas, Survivor Series, 2003 in Texas, 21st century in Dallas, Texas

Survivor Series (2003) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 16, 2003 at the American Airlines Center in Dallas, Texas. It was the seventeenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

[[Newark Liberty International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in the United States, Buildings and structures in New Jersey, 1928 establishments in the United States, 1920s establishments in New Jersey

Newark Liberty International Airport EWR, first named Newark Metropolitan Airport and later Newark International Airport, is an airport located in New Jersey. It is located between Newark and Elizabeth.  It is around 15 miles (24 km) southwest of Midtown Manhattan in New York City. It is owned by the city of Newark and run by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. It was the first major airport in the United States. It is the busiest airport in the New York metropolitan area by number of flights.

The New York City metropolitan area's John F. Kennedy International Airport, LaGuardia Airport, and Newark Liberty International airports are the largest airport system in the United States. They are the second busiest system of airports in the world by number of passengers. They are the busiest in the world in terms of total flight operations. In 2012, the airport had just under 34 million million passengers. JFK had 49.3 million, and LaGuardia had 25.7 million.

On September 11, 2001, United Airlines Flight 93 left Newark on its way to San Francisco International Airport. Two hours later, it crashed into a field just outside of Shanksville, Pennsylvania, killing all crew members and passengers on the plane. The passengers had tried to take over the plane from a team of terrorists who took over it. Had it not crashed in Pennsylvania, it is believed that the plane would have crashed into the United States Capitol or the White House. In 2002, to honor the people who were killed on September 11, the airport's name was changed from Newark International Airport to Newark Liberty International Airport. 

[[Cinquillo]]

CATEGORIES: Music

The cinquillo is a syncopated rhythm found in a number of Afro-Latin musical styles. It is present in the Cuban habanera and danzón, and in the Argentine tango. It is, with polyrhythms, a characteristic African influence on Latin music.

[[Home theater]]

A home theater or home theatre is a theater built in a home. Home theaters are designed to be like watching a movie at a movie theatre. 

[[Wireless access point]]

CATEGORIES: Computer networking

In computer networks, a wireless access point is a device that allows people to connect Wi-Fi devices such as laptop computers on a wireless LAN, to a wired network. The access point is often connected to a wireless Router.

[[Section.80]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Hip hop albums

Section.80 is the first studio album by Kendrick Lamar. It was released on July 2011 through Top Dawg Entertainment. Its lyrics tell stories about two different women "Keisha" and "Tammy". It was supported by the promotional conscious hip hop song "HiiiPoWeR".

[[Good Kid, M.A.A.D City]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, Hip hop albums

Good Kid, M.A.A.D. City (written as good kid, m.A.A.d city) is the second studio album by Kendrick Lamar. It was released on October 22, 2012 through Top Dawg Entertainment, Aftermath Records and Interscope Records. After the release of Lamar's mixtape Overly Dedicated (2010), Dr. Dre quickly sighned him to his record label Aftermath.

The lyrics are about Lamar's childhood, living in Compton. He experienced gang violence and the use of drugs, which left him stuck on that type of style. It was supported by several singles, including: "Bitch, Don't Kill My Vibe", "Swimming Pools (Drank)", "Money Trees", "Backseat Freestyle", "m.A.A.d. city", and "The Recipe". Other musicians featured on the album include Dr. Dre, Jay-Z, Schoolboy Q, MC E, Black Hippy, Jay Rock and Drake.

Tracklisting

[[Suicide prevention]]

CATEGORIES: Suicide

Suicide prevention is when local organizations, mental health doctors and nurses, and psychologists try to stop people from attempting suicide. One thing to do is stop people who are about to attempt suicide. Another way to stop people from attempting suicide is to treat the symptoms of depression, help people to cope during a time of crisis, reduce the issues that put people at risk of attempting suicide, and give people hope for a better future.

Suicide is not just a medical or mental health issue. Making sure people have friends and family to help them and taking away dangerous items can also stop people from attempting suicide.

In the U.S., there is a  National Strategy for Suicide Prevention. It was created by the Department of Health and Human Services in 2001.  Suicide prevention activities include messages aimed at people and messages for everyone in the community.

[[Dialectical behavior therapy]]

CATEGORIES: Borderline personality disorder

Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) is a form of psychotherapy developed by Marsha M. Linehan, a psychology researcher at the University of Washington. Linehan originally developed DBT to help people with borderline personality disorder (BPD).

DBT uses cognitive-behavioral techniques to get patients to control their emotions and test what reality is. It also tests the patient's tolerance for distress, and tries to get them to accept their situation and be aware of their feelings.

Linehan's ideas about how to be aware of your feelings come from Buddhist meditation. DBT may be the first therapy that has been shown to be effective in treating BPD. It can also help patients with spectrum mood problems, including self-injury. DBT may help victims of sexual abuse and people addicted to drugs.

[[National Library of Greece]]

CATEGORIES: National libraries in Europe, 1832 establishments, Buildings and structures in Athens, Establishments in Greece, 1830s establishments in Europe

The National Library of Greece is the national library of Greece. It is in Athens. It was created in 1832.

[[Obstetrics]]

CATEGORIES: Medical specialties

Obstetrics is the medical speciality that deals with helping a woman during pregnancy and childbirth. It is part of gynaecology

[[Transgender Day of Remembrance]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 establishments, Transgender, November events

Transgender Day of Remembrance (TDoR) is an event that happens every year on November 20 around the world. It is about remembering transgender people who were killed by people who do not like transgender people (transphobes). It was started in 1998 by Gwendolyn Ann Smith, a transwoman. Smith made the event because a Afro-American transwoman called Rita Hester was murdered. It happens on the last day of Transgender Awareness Week.

[[National Library of Spain]]

CATEGORIES: National libraries in Europe, 1712 establishments, Buildings and structures in Madrid, 18th century establishments in Spain, 1710s establishments in Europe

The National Library of Spain (Biblioteca Nacional de España) is in Madrid. It is Spain's largest library. It is also one of the world's largest libraries. It was started by King Philip V of Spain in 1712.

[[Jack T. Chick]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2016 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Writers from Los Angeles, California, American comics artists, American Christians

Jack Thomas Chick (April 13, 1924 – October 23, 2016) was an American publisher, writer, and comic book artist. He mainly wrote evangelical Christian fundamentalist tracts and comic books. His comics have been described as hate literature by the Los Angeles Magazine.  He was born in Los Angeles, California.

Chick's company, Chick Publications, claims to have sold over 750 million tracts, comics tracts and comic books, videos, books, and posters designed to spread Protestant evangelism from a fundamentalist Christian point of view. Many of his tracts are controversial. For example, some of the tracts accuse Roman Catholics, Freemasons, Muslims and many other groups of murder and conspiracies.  Chick says his views are just not politically correct.

His views have been spread around the world, mostly through the tracts and now online. They have been translated into more than 100 languages. Chick is an Independent Baptist who follows a premillennial dispensationalist view of the end times. He is an firm believer in the King James Only movement, which says that every English translation of the Bible more recent than 1611 promotes heresy.

[[Hatfield, Herefordshire]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Herefordshire

Hatfield is a small village near Leominster in Herefordshire. In the village is a caravan site called Fair View caravan site. It has a small church called Hatfield St. Leonard, built 1066. It is of Norman design. It is built of local sandstone.  Other nearby hamlets and towns include Bockleton, Bromyard and Leominister. The city of Hereford is 21 south of Hatfield.  The Herefordshire Trail (walking trail) runs through the village.

== References == 

[[Kingdom of Lindsey]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, Lincolnshire, Former monarchies of Europe, 8th-century disestablishments, Petty kingdoms of England

The Kingdom of Lindsey was in approximately what is now Lincolnshire. At the time of the Roman conquest of Britain, it was a part of the territory of the Corieltauvi tribe. Lindsey appears in the 7th century list called the Tribal Hidage, where it is shown to be the same size as Essex and Sussex, all of which were set at 7,000 hides. It was a lesser Anglo-Saxon kingdom which was disputed over by Northumbria and Mercia. It ceased to exist as an independent kingdom during the reign of Offa of Mercia.

[[Rick Ross]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), African American musicians, American rap musicians from Mississippi

William Leonard Roberts II (born January 28, 1976), known professionally as Rick Ross, is an American rapper, record producer, entrepreneur and record executive.

After releasing his debut single, Hustlin' in 2006, Ross became the subject of a bidding war, receiving offers from Diddy's Bad Boy Entertainment and Irv Gotti's Murder Inc., before signing a multi million dollar deal with Jay Z's Def Jam Records. Ross released his debut album Port Of Miami through the label later that year, debuting at the top spot on the U.S. Billboard 200 album chart, with sales of 187,000 units during the first week. Ross released his second studio album, Trilla in 2008, once again debuting atop the Billboard 200.

In 2009, Ross founded the record label Maybach Music Group, on which he released his studio albums Deeper Than Rap (2009), Teflon Don (2010), God Forgives, I Don't (2012), Mastermind, Hood Billionaire (2014), Black Market (2015), and Rather You Than Me (2017). Ross was also the first artist signed to Diddy's management company Ciroc Entertainment. In early 2012, MTV named Ross as the Hottest MC in the Game.

[[Social cognitive theory]]

CATEGORIES: Cognition, Branches of psychology

Social cognitive theory emphasizes how cognitive, behavioral, personal, and environmental factors interact to determine motivation and behavior. Social cognitive theory was presented by Albert Bandura in response to his dissatisfaction with the principles of behaviorism and psychoanalysis. His research is primarily focused on self-efficacy, the beliefs regarding one's capabilities of completing tasks or goals successfully.

[[Absolute threshold of hearing]]

CATEGORIES: Hearing

The absolute threshold of hearing (ATH) is the minimum loudness of a pure tone that an average ear with normal hearing can hear with no other sound present.  The absolute threshold relates to the sound that can just be heard by the organism.  This is also known as the auditory threshold.

The threshold of hearing in humans is 20 µPa (micropascals) = 2×10−5  pascal (Pa).  The tympanic membrane of the ear operates as a sound pressure sensor, as does a microphone

[[International Bank Account Number]]

CATEGORIES: Finance, ISO standards

The International Bank Account Number is an internationally-recognised way of identifying bank account numbers. Its abbreviation is "IBAN".  The IBAN was developed to enable people in the European Union  to send money to a bank account in another country. When a person uses a computer to make a money transfer, the IBAN has features that allow the person’s computer to check for typing errors.

The IBAN is now used in all European countries and also in many developing countries.  Developed countries outside Europe such as the United States, Australia and Canada do not use the IBAN.

[[Yonkers (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Hip hop songs

"Yonkers" is a song by Odd Future's frontman Tyler, The Creator. It is from his debut studio album Goblin. It features hardcore lyrics and also contains insults directed at singers Hayley Williams of the band Paramore, Bruno Mars and rapper B.o.B.. This song is the one that Odd Future gained mainstream success with. It was high on the Billboard charts, but lost to Katy Perry's Firework. In response to the insults, B.o.B. made a song entitled "No Future".

[[Channel Orange]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, R&B albums, Grammy Award-winning albums

Channel Orange (written as channel, ORANGE) is the first studio album by Frank Ocean. It was released in July 2012 through Def Jam. The cover shows an orange box that is almost full, which is a reference to the summer that Ocean had first fallen in love. It featured the song "Thinkin Bout You" as well as the other successful songs "Lost", "Pyramids", "Sweet Life" and "Super Rich Kids". The lyrics are dealing with Oceans experience with unrequited love, sex, drugs and nostalgia. It won a Grammy Award.

[[Odd Future Records]]

CATEGORIES: American record labels, 2011 establishments in California, Companies based in Los Angeles, Hip hop

Odd Future Records is a record label founded by Tyler The Creator in 2011. It is based on the group Odd Future. It has signed acts such as Odd Future as well as its subgroups. It also has signed other acts such as The Jet Of Tommorow and Internet.

[[HiiiPoWeR]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Hip hop songs

"HiiiPoWeR" is the debut single by Kendrick Lamar. It is a conscious hip hop song. It was released in April 2011 through Top Dawg Entertainment. It was a promotional single that was produced by J.Cole. Its lyrics make references to African-American activists such as Martin Luther King and are about racism and the media. HiiiPoWeR was the only single realeased out of the album Section.80. The reason why the title has 3 ‘i’s is because it stands for Honor, Respect and Heart according to Lamar. Lamar was influenced by Thug Life, a hip hop group led by Tupac Shakur.

[[Syrian civil war]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s in Asia, 2020s in Asia, 21st century in Syria, Civil wars, Wars involving Syria

The 

Syrian civil war, also known as the Syrian uprising (الثورة السورية), or Syrian crisis (الأزمة السورية), is an ongoing armed conflict in Syria. The Ba'ath government is fighting against people who want to remove this government. The conflict began on 15 March 2011, with demonstrations. These demonstrations were like demonstrations held in other Arab countries, which has been called the Arab Spring. Protesters in Syria demanded that President Bashar al-Assad resign. His family has held the presidency in Syria since 1971. Many of Assad's supporters are Shia while most of the opposition is Sunni. 

In April 2011, the Syrian Army fired on demonstrators across the country. After months of military battles, the protests turned into an armed rebellion. Opposition forces were soldiers who had left the Syrian army and civilian volunteers. Opposition fighters had no central leadership. Battles took place in many towns and cities across the country. In late 2011 the Islamist group al-Nusra Front began to have a bigger role in the forces. In 2013 Hezbollah entered the war in support of the Syrian army. 

The Syrian government , received military support from Russia and Iran. Qatar and Saudi Arabia gave weapons to the rebels. By July 2013, the Syrian government controlled approximately 30–40 percent of the country's territory and 60 percent of the Syrian population. A 2012 UN report said the battles were between different sects or groups. The battles were between Shia groups against Sunni rebel groups,.

According to the United Nations, over 100,000 people were killed by June 2013. A total of 120,000 were killed by September 2013. In addition, tens of thousands of protesters were put in jail. There were reports that the Syrian government was torturing prisoners. International organizations accused both government and opposition forces of breaching human rights. The UN said most of the abuses were carried out by the Syrian government. More than 4 million Syrians were forced to relocate because of the battles and more than 2 million refugees left their country. Millions of citizens are still short of electricity, food and drinking water.

In 2013 the Syrian regime used Chemical weapons against the rebels.  This drew attention from the international community.  The government reportedly surrendered their chemical weapons in 2014 but continued the war using other weapons. Later in 2014, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant became the most powerful opposing army, controlling more territory than the Syrian government itself. By 2019 government forces had take back most of this territory.

With all of this going on in Syria, 5.6 million Syrians were forced to flee to other countries.

[[Art music]]

CATEGORIES: Music genres

Art music is a term which includes classical music, and various kinds of serious modern music. Other terms for it are serious music, and legitimate music.

The need for such terms came with the modern movement in the arts. Clearly the music of, say, Schonberg was serious, bur not classical in the sense of Bach and Beethoven. Stravinsky's music was a bridge between the two genres. It was classical music in part, and touched with African-influenced syncopations and dischords. So terms like "art music" and "modern music" were used by art critics and academics in their writing.

Art music can be defined as serious music with a written musical tradition. The term art music is used often and has a clear meaning. Musicologist Philip Tagg calls it one part of an clear and unquestioned "triangle consisting of 'folk', 'art' and 'popular' musics". He explains that each of these three is distinguishable from the others according to certain criteria. The main tradition in the Western world is usually called classical music. In this regard, it is frequently used as a contrasting term to popular music and traditional or folk music.

[[Soap&Skin]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, Austrian musicians, Singers

Soap&Skin (born 5 April 1990) is an Austrian singer. Her real name is Anja Franziska Plaschg. She plays piano and sings in English and sometimes German. She has released two albums.

[[Dutch resistance]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century rebellions, National liberation movements, Resistance movements of World War II, Rebellions in Europe, 1940s in the Netherlands

The Dutch resistance was a movement of Dutch people who fought against the German occupation of the Netherlands during World War II.  They fought the Nazis in many different ways, mostly without using violence. The resistance helped to hide 300,000 people in the autumn of 1944.

Dutch resistance developed slowly.  In 1941, Dutch people organized a strike, called the February strike, to protest against the Nazis deporting over 400 Jews.  This encouraged the resistance. The Dutch communists set up a system of cells (small groups of resistance members). Some other very amateur groups also formed, like De Geuzen, set up by Bernard IJzerdraat. Some military groups started, such as the Ordedienst ('order service'). Most groups were discovered by the Nazis during the first two years of the war.

Dutch resistance groups gathered counterintelligence (information about the Nazis), committed sabotage, and formed communications networks.  This helped the Allied forces, beginning in 1944 and continuing until the Netherlands was liberated. About 75% (105,000 out of 140,000) of Dutch Jews were killed in the Holocaust, most of them murdered in Nazi death camps. A number of resistance groups specialized in saving Jewish children. Somewhere between 215 and 500 Dutch Romanis were also killed by the Nazis.

[[Tyler, The Creator]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, African American musicians, American rap musicians from California, Musicians from Los Angeles, California

Tyler Gregory Okonma, better known by his stage name Tyler, The Creator, is an American rapper. He is best known for creating the hip-hop collective Odd Future, in addition to a successful solo career.

[[Kika]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1994 movies, Spanish movies, French comedy movies, French romance movies, Movies directed by Pedro Almodóvar

Kika is a 1994 comedy movie. The title character gets involved in relationships with different men and is assaulted several times. One of these assaults is by a pornographic movie actor with a very low IQ. He assaults Kika with serious force and is then pulled from her by two unknown people.

The movie originally received an NC-17 just before its release in the United States half a year after completion. The rating, though, was surrendered, and Kika was then released unrated.

[[Maurice Vachon]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2013 deaths, Canadian professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Quebec, People from Montreal, WWE Hall of Fame

Maurice Vachon (September 14, 1929 - November 21, 2013) was a Canadian professional wrestler. He is best known under his ring name, "Mad Dog" Vachon

He was known for competing in American Wrestling Association (AWA) where he played one of the all-time great heels. He spent four decades wrestling and retired in 1986. He is a member of the Vachon wrestling family with his brother Paul and sister Vivian Vachon, and the uncle of wrestler Luna Vachon. He died on November 21, 2013.

He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Pat Patterson in 2010.

[[Kearney, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska, County seats in Nebraska, 19th-century establishments in Nebraska

Kearney is a city in Nebraska, United States. It is in the south-central part of Nebraska. The city began in the late 19th century. The previous name of the city was Dobytown, but the area was later renamed Kearney. 

The 2010 Census recorded the population of Kearney at about 30,800. The city has grown in recent years.

[[Pavel Bobek]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2013 deaths, Disease-related deaths in the Czech Republic, Musicians from Prague, Czech singers

Pavel Bobek (16 September 1937 − 20 November 2013) was a Czech singer. He worked with many musical artists such as Lou Reed, Johnny Cash, Frank Zappa, Kenny Rogers, and John Denver.

Bobek was born on 16 September 1937 in Prague, Czechoslovakia. He studied to become an architect. Bobek died on 20 November 2013 from a long illness in Prague, Czech Republic, aged 76.

[[Hell house]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, Christian eschatology

Hell houses are attractions normally run by Christian churches. They show sin, the torture of the damned in hell, and usually end with a depiction of heaven. They are normally run on Halloween.

A hell house is like a haunted house attraction. It is a building used for actors attempting to frighten people with gruesome exhibits and scenes. They are presented as a series of short vignettes with a guide. Unlike haunted houses, hell houses focus on the effects of sin or the fate of unrepentant sinners in the afterlife. They occur during the month of October to take advantage of the similarities between hell houses and haunted houses.

[[Field Mob]]

CATEGORIES: People from Albany, Georgia, Hip hop bands, Musical groups from Georgia (U.S. state), 2000s music groups

Field Mob is an American hip hop group from Albany, Georgia. The members of the group are Shawn Timothy Johnson and Darion Crawford, better known by their stage names "Shawn Jay" and "Smoke". Field Mob is currently a part of T-Pain's label Nappy Boy Entertainment.

[[Crooks, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota

Crooks is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 1,269 people lived there at the 2010 census.

[[Survivor Series (2002)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 in American television, 2002 in professional wrestling, 2000s in New York City, Sports in New York City, Survivor Series

Survivor Series (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on November 17, 2002 at Madison Square Garden in New York City. It was the sixteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

[[Cura Mori District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts, Peru

Cura Mori District is one of nine districts of the province Piura in Peru.

[[International Association of Fire Fighters]]

CATEGORIES: International organizations, 1918 establishments in the United States, Firefighting, Organizations based in the United States

International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF) is an international organization dedicated to the firefighters. It was established in 1918 in the United States. The IAFF is a part of the AFL-CIO in the United States and the Canadian Labour Congress in Canada. They are based in Washington, DC.

[[Afternoon (disambiguation)]]

Afternoon may mean:

[[Society for American City and Regional Planning History]]

CATEGORIES: History of urban planning, Non-profit organizations of the United States, 1986 establishments in the United States, 1980s establishments in Ohio

The Society for American City and Regional Planning History (SACRPH) is an American non-profit organization for the history of urban planning. It was established in 1986 in Ohio, United States. The organization's members includes urban planners, architects, historians, environmentalists, landscape designers, preservationists, students and scholars from across the country and around the world. The organization also publishes books and the Journal of Planning History. It has award ceremonies and gives advice to governments about architecture and urban conservation.

[[Indian gooseberry]]

CATEGORIES: Berries, Plants of Asia

The Indian gooseberry is a deciduous tree of the family Phyllanthaceae. It is known for its edible fruit of the same name.

[[Survivor Series (2001)]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 in professional wrestling, 2001 in American television, Sports in North Carolina, Survivor Series, Greensboro, North Carolina, 2000s in North Carolina, November events

Survivor Series (2001) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 18, 2001 at Greensboro Coliseum in Greensboro, North Carolina. It was the fifteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

[[Survivor Series (2000)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 in American television, 2000 in professional wrestling, Sports in Tampa, Florida, Survivor Series, 2000s in Tampa, Florida, November events

Survivor Series (2000) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 19, 2000 at Ice Palace in Tampa, Florida. It was the fourteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

[[Whitehorse]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Canada, Provincial and territorial capitals of Canada, Settlements in Yukon

Whitehorse is the capital of Yukon, Canada. It is the also largest city in northern Canada. It is on the Alaska Highway and the Yukon River.

[[The End of the World]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s songs, 1962, Pop songs, Torch songs

"The End of the World" is a song about feeling sad and breakups. The song was released in late 1962, though it did not become a hit until spring of the following year. The song was first performed by Skeeter Davis. It was later recorded by other artists including Nancy Sinatra, Brenda Lee, Johnny Mathis, Loretta Lynn and Anne Murray. In several cases the song had a strong chart play and performance in the United States, United Kingdom and several other areas.

[[Baltic, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1907 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in South Dakota

Baltic is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 1,089 people lived there at the 2010 census. Baltic became a city in 1907.

[[Janet Mock]]

CATEGORIES: American political activists, African American writers, 1984 births, Living people, People from Honolulu, American LGBT people, Transgender and transsexual people

Janet Mock (born 1984 in Honolulu, Hawaii) is an American writer and activist for transgender rights.

[[Bohol (province)]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of the Philippines, Island provinces of the Philippines

The Province of Bohol (Lalawigan sa Bohol; Lalawigan ng Bohol) is an island province of the Philippines in the Central Visayas region, consisting of one main island, Bohol, and more than 70 smaller islands. Its capital is Tagbilaran.

The province is a popular place among tourists because of its beaches and resorts. The Chocolate Hills, many small hills of limestone formations, is the most popular attraction. There are many hotels in the southern beaches.

It is the home province of Carlos P. Garcia, the eighth president of the Republic of the Philippines (1957–1961) who was born in Talibon.

[[Chittenden County, Vermont]]

CATEGORIES: Vermont counties

Chittenden is a county in Vermont in the United States. The county seat is Burlington. In the 2010 count, 156,545 people lived in this county.

[[Chemung County, New York]]

CATEGORIES: New York (state) counties

Chemung is a county of New York in the United States. The county seat is Elmira. In the 2010 count, 88,830 people lived in this county.

[[Concordia Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, 1807 establishments in the Territory of Orleans

Concordia is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Vidalia. In the 2010 count, 20,822 people lived in this parish.

[[Jackson Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, 1845 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Louisiana

Jackson is a parish of Louisiana. The parish seat is Jonesboro. In the 2010 count, 16,274 people lived in this parish.

[[Webster Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, 1871 establishments in the United States, 1870s establishments in Louisiana

Webster Parish (French: Paroisse de Webster) is a parish located in the northwestern section of the U.S. state of Louisiana. 

The seat of the parish is Minden.

As of the 2010 census, the Webster Parish population was 41,207.

[[Brewster County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Brewster County is a county in the state of Texas in the United States. In 2010, 9,232 people lived there.  The county seat is Alpine.  The county was named for Colonel Henry Percy Brewster, who was Secretary of War for the Republic of Texas.

[[La Salle Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, 1910 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Louisiana

La Salle is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Jena. In the 2010 count, 14,890 people lived in this parish.

[[Avoyelles Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, Acadiana, 1807 establishments in the Territory of Orleans

Avoyelles is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Marksville. In the 2010 count, 42,073 people lived in this parish.

[[Allen Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, 1912 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Louisiana

Allen is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Oberlin. As of the 2010 Census, 25,764 people lived in this parish.

[[Bienville Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Bienville Parish, Louisiana, 1848 establishments in the United States, 1840s establishments in Louisiana

Bienville is a parish of Louisiana in the United States. The parish seat is Arcadia. In the 2010 count, 14,353 people lived in this parish.

[[Arcadia, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Parish seats in Louisiana, Towns in Bienville Parish, Louisiana

Arcadia is the parish seat of Bienville Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Wilfried Martens]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2013 deaths, Belgian Roman Catholics, Cancer deaths in Belgium, Christelijke Volkspartij politicians, Christen-Democratisch en Vlaams politicians, Deaths by euthanasia, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Flemish politicians, Former MEPs, Government ministers of Belgium, Harvard University alumni, MEPs for Belgium, People from East Flanders, Prime Ministers of Belgium

Wilfried Achiel Emma Martens (19 April 1936 – 9 October 2013) was a Belgian politician.

He was born in Sleidinge (East Flanders). During his political career, Martens served as the Prime Minister of Belgium from 3 April 1979 to 6 April 1981 and 17 December 1981 to 7 March 1992.

Martens died of pancreatic cancer and died by euthanasia on 9 October 2013, at his home in Lokeren. He was 77.

[[Piet de Jong]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2016 deaths, Catholic People's Party politicians, Deputy government ministers of the Netherlands, Dutch centenarians, Dutch military people, Dutch military personnel of World War II, Dutch Roman Catholics, Former leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Members of the Senate of the Netherlands, People from Apeldoorn, Politicians from Gelderland, Prime Ministers of the Netherlands

Petrus Jozef Sietse "Piet" de Jong (April 3, 1915 – July 27, 2016) was a Dutch politician. He was for the Catholic People's Party (KVP) now merged into the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA).

[[Howard Cooke]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2014 deaths, Governors-General of Jamaica

Sir Howard Felix Hanlan Cooke, ON, GCMG, GCVO, CD, K.St.J (13 November 1915 – 11 July 2014) was the Governor-General of Jamaica from 1 August 1991 until 15 February 2006 when he became the first governor-general to invest his own successor, Professor Kenneth Octavius Hall. He was styled His Excellency while in office as governor-general.

[[Đỗ Mười]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Communist politicians, Centenarians, Prime Ministers of Vietnam, General Secretaries of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam

Đỗ Mười (2 February 1917 – 1 October 2018) was a Vietnamese communist politician. He served as the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Vietnam from 27 June 1991 through 29 December 1997.

Muoi was born on 2 February 1917 in Dong Phu, Thanh Trì, Hanoi as Nguyễn Duy Cống. He turned 100 in 2017.

[[Harold Holzer]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American historians, Writers from New York City

Harold Holzer (born February 5, 1949 in Brooklyn, New York) is an American historian and writer. He is known for being an educator of the life of Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War era. He was the script consultant to the Steven Spielberg movie, Lincoln. Holzer is the chairman of the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission.

[[Constantine Mitsotakis]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2017 deaths, Eastern Orthodox Christians, Government ministers of Greece, Greek lawyers, Prime Ministers of Greece

Constantine Mitsotakis or Konstantinos Mitsotakis (18 October 1918 – 29 May 2017) was a Greek politician. He is the former Prime Minister of Greece from 11 April 1990 through 13 October 1993.

He was born in Chania, Crete, to a political family: his father and grandfathers were members of parliament, and the great liberal leader Eleftherios Venizelos was his uncle. He graduated in law and economics from the University of Athens.

He was married to Marika Mitsotakis (née Giannoukou) from 1953 until her death on 6 May 2012. They had four children.

In January 2004 Mitsotakis announced that he would retire from Parliament at the 7 March election, 56 years after his first election.

[[Patricio Aylwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2016 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Deaths from respiratory failure, Presidents of Chile, Presidents of the Senate of Chile

Patricio Aylwin Azócar (November 26, 1918 – April 19, 2016) was a Chilean politician.  He served as President of Chile from March 11, 1990 through March 11, 1994.  He was the first president of Chile after democracy was restored in 1990. He was also a lawyer and former senator.

Aylwin was born in Viña del Mar, Chile on November 26, 1918. He married Leonor Oyarzún in 1948.  They had five children. Aylwin died on April 19, 2016 at his home in Santiago from respiratory failure complicated from a fall, at the age of 97.

[[Leonor Oyarzún]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, Living people, Chilean people

Leonor Oyarzún Ivanovic (born 10 March 1919) was the First Lady of Chile. She was the wife of former President Patricio Aylwin.

Oyarzún was born on 1919 in Temuco. She married Aylwin on 29 September 1948 and they have five children. They have 14 grandchildren (among them, telenovela actress Paz Bascuñán). Aylwin died in April 2016.

[[Émile Derlin Zinsou]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2016 deaths, Presidents of Benin

Émile Derlin Zinsou (23 March 1918 in Ouidah – 28 July 2016 in Cotonou) was an Beninese politician. Zinsou served as the President of Benin from 17 July 1968 until 10 December 1969. He was previously Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1962 to 1963 and again from 1965 to 1967. He was said to have opposed the one-party Marxist policies of Mathieu Kérékou, who ruled Benin from 1972 to 1990.

Zinsou died on 28 July 2016, aged 98.

[[Hyun Soong-jong]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2020 deaths, Prime Ministers of South Korea

Hyun Soong-jong (February 26 (Lunar January 26), 1919 – May 25, 2020) was a South Korean politician. He served as Prime Minister from October 1992 through 1993. He was nominated by then-President of South Korea Roh Tae-woo.

Soong-jung died on May 25, 2020 at the age of 101. At the time of his death, he was the oldest known living former state leader. Mustafa Ben Halim succeeded him with this distinction

[[Mohammed Karim Lamrani]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2018 deaths, Prime Ministers of Morocco

Mohammed Karim Lamrani (1 May 1919 – 20 September 2018) was the Prime Minister of Morocco three times. Lamrani was one of the oldest former living world leaders until his death. 

[[Mitja Ribičič]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2013 deaths, People from Trieste, Prime ministers, Slovenian politicians, Yugoslavian people

Mitja Ribičič (19 May 1919 – 28 November 2013) was a Slovenian former politician.

He was the only Slovenian prime minister of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (1969–1971). Between 1945 and 1957, he was at the top of the repressive system in Slovenia, and has been accused of violations of human rights and crimes against humanity.

He was born in a Slovene-speaking family in Trieste, Italy on 19 May 1919. Ribičič died on 28 November 2013 in Ljubljana, Republic of Slovenia, aged 94.

[[Daniel (mountain)]]

CATEGORIES: Alps, Mountains of Austria, Tyrol (state)

Daniel is the highest peak of the Ammergau Alps. It is 2340 above sea level. It is in Tyrol, Austria above the villages Ehrwald and Leermoos. It is near two other peaks, Upsspitze and Hochschrutte.

[[U Can't Touch This]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 songs, Rap music

"U Can't Touch This" is a song by American rapper MC Hammer. It is part of his 1990 album Please Hammer, Don't Hurt 'Em. It was released on January 13, 1990. This song is considered to be his signature song. It is one of his most popular songs.

[[TNA Bound for Glory]]

CATEGORIES: Impact Wrestling, October events

Bound for Glory is a yearly pay-per-view made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). The event is usually produced in October and is similar to their rival WWE's WrestleMania. The first Bound for Glory event took place on October 23, 2005 at the TNA Impact! Zone in Orlando, Florida. 

[[Jerusalem Nature Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in Jerusalem

The Jerusalem Nature Museum is a children's museum dedicated to nature. It was established in 1962 in the German Colony in Jerusalem.

[[Bloomfield Science Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in Jerusalem, 1992 establishments, 1990s establishments in Israel

The Bloomfield Science Museum in Jerusalem is a museum about science for children located in Givat Ram, Jerusalem. It was established in 1992.

[[ISOCARP]]

CATEGORIES: Urban planning organizations, International organizations, 1965 establishments

The International Society of City and Regional Planners (ISOCARP) is an international association of people who work in urban planning. It was created in 1965. It now has members from more than 80 countries. ISOCARP is formally recognised by the United Nations and Council of Europe. It works with UNESCO. It is not under the control of any government.

[[Sikorsky UH-60 Blackhawk]]

CATEGORIES: Helicopters, United States Army aircraft, Sikorsky aircraft & helicopter

The Sikorsky UH-60 Blackhawk or Sikorsky S-70 is a U.S. military helicopter. It is used by the U.S. Army as a standard assault helicopter. It replaced the Bell UH-1 Iroquois. Sikorsky SH-60 Seahawk and Sikorsky VH-60N White Hawk are specialized variants of it.

[[Journal of Planning History]]

CATEGORIES: Journals, Urban planning

The Journal of Planning History is an academic journal about urban planning and design. It is published in the United States by the Society for American City and Regional Planning History. A new issue is published four times each year.

[[Sherman, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Dakota, 1888 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Dakota Territory

Sherman is a town in the far eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Minnehaha County, and 78 people lived there at the 2010 census. Sherman became a town in 1888.

[[Worksop]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Nottinghamshire

Worksop is a town in Nottingamshire, England. It is the biggest town in the district of Bassetlaw. Worksop is located on the River Ryton, north of Sherwood Forest. Around 39,800 people live in the town.

[[Hudson, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Dakota, 1868 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Dakota Territory

Hudson is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Lincoln County, and 296 people lived there at the 2010 census. People first started to live in Hudson in 1868.

[[TNA Lockdown]]

CATEGORIES: Impact Wrestling

Lockdown is a yearly pay-per-view made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). The event is usually produced in April. The first Slammiversary event took place on April 24, 2005 at the TNA Impact! Zone in Orlando, Florida. 

The event features a Six Sides of Steel cage when the ring still had 6 sides. They switched to a normal, 4-sided steel cage in 2010. They also have gimmick matches such as the Lethal Lockdown (which is a variant of the WarGames match that was popularized in World Championship Wrestling), the Xscape match which is a multi-competitor elimination cage match where the last two remaining competitors must climb over or use the door to escape the cage, and the Queen of the Cage match which featured TNA Knockouts.

[[Lacuna Coil]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 establishments in Europe, Gothic metal bands, Italian musical groups, 1990s establishments in Italy

Lacuna Coil is an Italian gothic metal band. They started in 1994 in Milan with the name Sleep of Right. Then they changed their name to Ethereal in 1997. They found that there was already a band with that name. So they changed their name to Lacuna Coil that year. They are known for making music with male and female vocal harmonies. Cristina Scabbia joined the band in 1996. She does the main vocals with Andrea Ferro. The band has released seven albums.

[[Area code 318]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana, Telephone numbers in the United States, Area codes

Area code 318 is a telephone area code that covers northern and central Louisiana.

its headquarters and largest city in Shreveport, is the parish seat of Caddo Parish

[[Stan (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 songs, Eminem songs, Murder in fiction, Suicide in fiction

"Stan" is the third single from The Marshall Mathers LP, Eminem's third album. It was No. 1 in the UK and Australia. It is about an Eminem fan who kills himself and his pregnant partner after Eminem does not respond to his letters. Devon Sawa plays the fan in the music video. Eminem performed the song at the 2001 Grammy Awards. Elton John played the piano at the performance. The album version of the song is 6 minutes and 39 seconds long. The video is 8 minutes and 15 seconds. On The Marshall Mathers LP 2, the song "Bad Guy" is a sequel to "Stan"; it is about Stan's brother, Matthew, taking revenge on Eminem.

[[Winnfield, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Parish seats in Louisiana, Cities in Louisiana, Ark-La-Tex, Settlements in Winn Parish, Louisiana

Winnfield is the parish seat of Winn Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Brasenose College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1509 establishments, 1500s establishments in Europe, 16th century establishments in England

Brasenose College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The college is on the site of the earlier Brazenose hall.  It is not known when Brasenose Hall became Brasenose College. The college uses the year 1509 as the date of its foundation as a college. That is the earliest written record of the college. A royal charter was issued for the "King's Hall and College at Brasenose" on 15 January 1512.

The name of the college is believed to refer to an ornate brass doorknocker in the shape of a nose, that was once on the door of its main hall. The name was in use at least as early as the 1330s. It is believed that the original doorknocker was removed by students in the 14th Century and taken to Stamford in Lincolnshire. In 1890, the college purchased a house in Stamford. The house had been referred to as "Brasenose" since the 17th  Century. The house had a 12th-Century doorknocker, believed to be the doorknocker removed from the college. The college had the doorknocker returned to the college, and it now hangs in the college's main hall.

[[Slammiversary]]

CATEGORIES: Impact Wrestling, June events

Slammiversary is a yearly pay-per-view made by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). The event is usually produced in June. The first Slammiversary event took place on June 19, 2005 at the Impact Zone in Orlando, Florida. The name of the pay-per-view is a reference to the anniversary of the first TNA event which took place on June 19, 2002.

[[Corpus Christi College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1517 establishments, 1510s establishments in England

Corpus Christi College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1517. The full name of the college is "The President and Scholars of the College of Corpus Christi in the University of Oxford".

[[Fairview, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Dakota, 1886 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Dakota Territory

Fairview is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Lincoln County, and 60 people lived there at the 2010 census. Fairview was started in 1886.

[[Manuel "Flaco" Ibáñez]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors, Comedians, People from Oaxaca

Manuel "Flaco" Ibañez (born Manuel Ibáñez Martínez; on October 17, 1946, in Acatlán de Pérez Figueroa, Oaxaca, Mexico) is a Mexican actor and comedian. He has appeared in

over 140 movies and television shows including La Red.

[[Instructions Not Included]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 comedy-drama movies, Mexican movies

Instructions Not Included is a 2013 Mexican comedy-drama movie. It was co-written, directed by, and starring Eugenio Derbez. It was released on August 30, 2013. It was released to mixed reviews.

[[Eugenio Derbez]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors, Mexican television presenters, Television writers, Mexican movie directors, Mexican screenwriters, Actors from Mexico City

Eugenio Derbez (born Eugenio González Derbez; September 2, 1961 in Mexico City, Mexico) is an Mexican television actor. He created the television series of XHDRBZ, Vecinos, and La familia P. Luche. Derbez is also a Formula Three Auto racing driver. In 2013, Derbez made his director debut in the comedy-drama movie Instructions Not Included. 

Derbez also starred in American comedies such as How to Be a Latin Lover (2017), Overboard (2018) and The Nutcracker and the Four Realms (2018).

[[Georges Lautner]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, Disease-related deaths in France, French movie actors, French movie directors, French movie producers, French screenwriters, People from Nice, Writers from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur

Georges Lautner (24 January 1926 – 22 November 2013) was a French movie director and screenwriter. He is known for directing the famous French movie Les Tontons flingueurs.

Lautner was born in Nice, France on 24 January 1926. He died on 22 November 2013 in Paris, France from a long illness, aged 87.

[[Spencer, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1917 establishments in the United States, 1910s establishments in South Dakota

Spencer is a city in the eastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in McCook County, and 154 people lived there at the 2010 census. Spencer became a city in 1917. On the night of May 30, 1998, a tornado rated F4 on the Fujita scale struck the city. It killed six people and destroyed most of the buildings in the city.

[[Bruce Almighty]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 movies, American comedy movies, Buena Vista International movies, Movies composed by John Debney

Bruce Almighty is a 2003 American comedy movie starring Jim Carrey, Jennifer Aniston and Morgan Freeman. It follows a news journalist, who complains about his life to God, so Nolan himself is offered the chance to become God himself and see his responsibilities. It was released on May 23, 2003 to mixed reviews. A spin-off movie was released entitled Evan Almighty and a sequel is in the works.

[[Evan Almighty]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 movies, American comedy movies

Evan Almighty is a 2007 American comedy movie and a spin-off sequel to Bruce Almighty. It stars Steve Carell, Morgan Freeman, Molly Shannon, John Goodman, Wanda Sykes and Jonah Hill.  It follows a congressman protecting the animals from a massive flood, after he was sent by God. It was released on June 22, 2007 to negative reviews.

[[Dominic Chianese]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American philanthropists, American activists, Actors from New York City, Singers from New York City, Musicians from New York City

Dominic Chianese (ˌ; born February 24, 1931 in The Bronx, New York) is an American actor, singer, musician, activist, and philanthropist. He is best known for his role as Corrado "Junior" Soprano on the HBO TV series The Sopranos. In 2010, Chianese received the Ellis Island Medal of Honor in recognition of his humanitarian efforts. 

[[Kelowna]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Kelowna is a city in British Columbia, Canada. It is on Okanagan Lake in the Okanagan Valley. The name "Kelowna" comes from the Okanagan word for "grizzly bear". Kelowna is the 22nd largest metropolitan area in Canada. In 2011, it had a population of 179,839.

The communities nearby include the district municipality of West Kelowna (also called Westbank, Westside) to the west across Okanagan Lake.  Lake Country and Vernon are to the north. Peachland is to the southwest and Summerland and Penticton further south. 

Kelowna is also sometimes called "Ktown" for short.

[[Colfax, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana

Colfax is the parish seat of Grant Parish, Louisiana, United States. In the 2000 census, 1,659 people lived in the city.

[[Farmerville, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana

Farmerville is the parish seat of Union Parish, Louisiana. As of the 2000 census count, 3,808 people lived in the town.

[[Bastrop, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana

Bastrop is the parish seat of Morehouse Parish, Louisiana. As of the 2000 census count, 11,365 people lived in the city. The city is the home of the Morehouse Parish School District.

[[Oberlin, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana

Oberlin is a town that is the parish seat of Allen Parish, Louisiana. As of the 2010 census count, 1,770 people lived in the city.

[[St. John the Baptist Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: 1807 establishments in the Territory of Orleans, Louisiana parishes, Acadiana

St. John the Baptist Parish (SJBP, Paroisse de Saint-Jean-Baptiste) is a parish located in the U.S. state of Louisiana. As of the 2010 census, the population was 45,924. The parish seat is Edgard, an unincorporated area, and the largest city is LaPlace, which is also unincorporated.

[[Malheur County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Oregon counties

Malheur County is a county in the state of Oregon. The county seat is Vale. As of the 2010 census count, 31,313 people lived in this county.

[[Harney County, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Harney County, Oregon

Harney is a county in the state of Oregon. The county seat is Burns. As of the 2010 census count, 7,422 people lived in this county. Harney is in southwestern Oregon. It is Oregon's largest county.

[[Survivor Series (1999)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 in American television, 1999 in professional wrestling, Sports in Detroit, Michigan, Survivor Series, 20th century in Detroit, Michigan, 1990s in Michigan

Survivor Series (1999) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 14, 1999 at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan. It was the thirteenth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

[[Earl (disambiguation)]]

Earl is a title of nobility.

Earl can refer to several other things:

[[Sociocultural theory]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Sociocultural theory was created by Lev Vygotsky as a response to Behaviorism. The main idea of the theory is that the ways people interact with others and the culture they live in shape their mental abilities. Vygotsky believed that parents, relatives, peers and society all have an important role in forming higher levels of functioning. Sociocultural theory, as stated by Cole, John-Steiner, Scribner, and Souberman, is the belief that "every function in the child's cultural development appears twice: first, on the social level, and later, on the individual level."  This means that the skills children learn first are related to interactions with others and they then take that information and use it within themselves.

[[MS Dhoni]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Cricketers, Indian cricketers

Mahendra Singh Dhoni (born 7 July 1981), commonly known as MS Dhoni and Mahi, is a cricket player and was the former captain of the Indian cricket team. Dhoni is a right-handed batsman. He is known as the greatest captain of all time, having achieved more success than any other captain in the history of cricket.

The Indian cricket team won the 2011 Cricket World Cup under his captainship. His Test cricket and One Day International records are the best among all Indian captains to date. He took over the ODI captaincy from Rahul Dravid in 2007 and led the team to its first ever inter-country ODI series wins in Sri Lanka and New Zealand. Dhoni also holds the post of Vice-President of India Cements Ltd. after resigning from Air India. India Cements is the owner of the Indian Premier League team Chennai Super Kings, and Dhoni has been its captain since the first edition of IPL.

Dhoni has also been given many awards, such as the ICC ODI Player of the Year award in 2008 and 2009 (the first Indian player to achieve this), the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award in 2007 and the Padma Shri, India's fourth-highest civilian honour, in 2009.

On 6 February 2015, Dhoni's daughter was born. He had played his 300th dhoni have more than 800 wins. He retired in 2020.

[[Alvaro Vitali]]

CATEGORIES: Italian movie actors, 1950 births, Living people, Actors from Rome

Alvaro Vitali (born 3 February 1950) is an Italian actor. He was born in Rome. He starred in the Pierino series of movies and in Roma and Amarcord, directed by Federico Fellini.

[[James Thurber]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1961 deaths, American cartoonists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from stroke, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Journalists from Ohio, Writers from Columbus, Ohio

James Grover Thurber (December 8, 1894 – November 2, 1961) was an American author, journalist, and cartoonist. Thurber was best known for his cartoons and short stories. He published his stories mainly in The New Yorker magazine. One of the most popular humorists of his time, Thurber celebrated the comic frustrations and eccentricities of ordinary people.

Thurber died on November 2, 1961 from complications from pneumonia and a stroke, aged 66. His last words, aside from the repeated word "God," were "God bless... God damn," according to his wife.

[[Jeff Bennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Actors from Houston, Texas, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors

Jeffrey Glen "Jeff" Bennett (born October 2, 1962) is an American voice actor and singer. He has voiced over 100 television characters and has appeared in over 200 television shows. He was in Dexter's Laboratory, Johnny Bravo, Scooby Doo!, Adventure Time, Regular Show, and had a role in Transformers: Dark of the Moon. And he was also playing the live-action role of Gordy in Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide.

[[Assembler]]

CATEGORIES: Computer science

In computer science an assembler is a program that turns assembly language into machine code.

An assembler is a program that takes basic computer instructions and converts them into a pattern of bits that the computer's processor can use to perform its basic operations. Some people call these instructions assembler language and others use the term assembly language.

Most computers come with a specified set of very basic instructions that correspond to the basic machine operations that the computer can perform. For example, a "Load" instruction causes the processor to move a string of bits from a location in the processor's memory to a special holding place called a register. Assuming the processor has at least eight registers, each numbered, the following instruction would move the value (string of bits of a certain length) at memory location 3000 into the holding place called register 8:

The programmer can write a program using a sequence of these assembler instructions.

This sequence of assembler instructions, known as the source code or source program, is then specified to the assembler program when that program is started.

The assembler program takes each program statement in the source program and generates a corresponding bit stream or pattern (a series of 0's and 1's of a given length).

The output of the assembler program is called the object code or object program relative to the input source program. The sequence of 0's and 1's that constitute the object program is sometimes called machine code.

The object program can then be run (or executed) whenever desired.

In the earliest computers, programmers actually wrote programs in machine code, but assembler languages or instruction sets were soon developed to speed up programming. Today, assembler programming is used only where very efficient control over processor operations is needed. It requires knowledge of a particular computer's instruction set, however. Historically, most programs have been written in "higher-level" languages such as COBOL, FORTRAN, PL/I, and C. These languages are easier to learn and faster to write programs with than assembler language. The program that processes the source code written in these languages is called a compiler. Like the assembler, a compiler takes higher-level language statements and reduces them to machine code.

A newer idea in program preparation and portability is the concept of a virtual machine. For example, using the Java programming language, language statements are compiled into a generic form of machine language known as bytecode that can be run by a virtual machine, a kind of theoretical machine that approximates most computer operations. The bytecode can then be sent to any computer platform that has previously downloaded or built in the Java virtual machine. The virtual machine is aware of the specific instruction lengths and other particularities of the platform and ensures that the Java bytecode can run.

[[The Secret Life of Walter Mitty (2013 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s adventure movies, 2013 comedy-drama movies, American adventure movies, American comedy-drama movies, Movies based on books

The Secret Life of Walter Mitty is an American adventure comedy-drama movie. It was directed by Ben Stiller, who also stars as the main character. The movie is based on James Thurber's 1939 short story of the same name. It was released on December 25, 2013.

[[Maleficent (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 movies, Disney movies, American fantasy movies, 2010s feminist movies

Maleficent is an American Disney movie. It is a dark fantasy movie based on the villain Maleficent from Sleeping Beauty. It stars Angelina Jolie and Elle Fanning. It was released on May 30, 2014.

[[Noah (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, Epic movies, American drama movies, Movies directed by Darren Aronofsky

Noah is a Biblical epic movie. It is directed by Darren Aronofsky and written by Aronofsky and Ari Handel. It stars Russell Crowe, Anthony Hopkins, Emma Watson, Jennifer Connelly, Douglas Booth, Logan Lerman, and Ray Winstone. The movie is based on the story of Noah's Ark.  The movie was released in North American cinemas on March 28, 2014.

[[The Book Thief (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 drama movies, 2010s war movies, American drama movies, American war movies, English-language movies, Movies about death, Movies about families, Movies based on books, Movies composed by John Williams, Movies set in Germany, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 1930s, Movies set in the 1940s

The Book Thief is a 2013 German-American war drama movie. It is based on the novel of the same name by Markus Zusak. It is directed by Brian Percival. The screenplay was written by Michael Petroni. The movie's score is composed by John Williams. The movie stars Emily Watson, Geoffrey Rush, Sophie Nélisse, Ben Schnetzer, Roger Allam, Nico Liersch, and Joachim Paul Assböck. It was on November 15, 2013.

[[Milk (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s biographical movies, 2008 drama movies, 2000s LGBT movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, American LGBT movies, Movies composed by Danny Elfman, Movies directed by Gus Van Sant, Movies set in the 1970s

Milk is an American biographical-drama movie. It was released in 2008. It is based on the life of gay politician Harvey Milk. It was directed by Gus Van Sant. It stars Sean Penn, Victor Garber, Emile Hirsch, James Franco, and Josh Brolin. 

The movie's score was composed by Danny Elfman. The movie was released on November 26, 2008 to very positive reviews. It was nominated for many awards including for Best Picture. Penn won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role as Harvey.

[[Mulatu Teshome]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s births, Living people, Presidents of Ethiopia

Mulatu Teshome Wirtu (born 1955 or 1956) is a Ethiopian politician and was President of Ethiopia from 2013 to 2018.

[[Kalix]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Kalix is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Kalix Municipality.

[[Öregrund]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Öregrund is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. Once a town, it became a part of Östhammar Municipality in 1971.

[[W. (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s biographical movies, 2008 drama movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, George W. Bush, Movies directed by Oliver Stone, Movies set in the 1960s, Movies set in the 1970s, Movies set in the 1980s, Movies set in the 1990s, Movies based on the September 11 attacks, Movies set in Washington, D.C., Works about alcoholism, Lionsgate movies

W. is a 2008 American biographical drama movie directed by Oliver Stone. It is about the life and the presidency of George W. Bush. It stars Josh Brolin, Ellen Burstyn, Elizabeth Banks, James Cromwell, Thandie Newton, Jeffrey Wright, Scott Glenn, and Richard Dreyfuss. It was released to negative reviews on October 17, 2008.

[[Olofström]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Blekinge County

Olofström, earlier Holje by, is an urban area in the county of Blekinge in Sweden. It is the seat of Olofström Municipality.

[[Sölvesborg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Blekinge County

Sölvesborg is an urban area in the county of Blekinge in Sweden. It is the seat of Sölvesborg Municipality.

[[Battle of Honkaniemi]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 in Europe, Battles involving the Soviet Union, 20th century in Finland, February events

The Battle of Honkaniemi was fought between Finnish and Soviet forces on 26 February 1940. This battle was fought by tanks. It was only time they were used in the Winter War.

The commander of the Finnish II Corps, General Harald Öhquist, had put the Jaeger Battalion 3 with the 4th company of the Armoured Battalion and the 23rd Division.

At 10:15 pm, the commander of the Jaeger Battalion 3, Captain I. Kunnas and Lieutenant O. Heinonen of the 4th Armoured Company were ordered to attack.

[[Kungsbacka]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Kungsbacka is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kungsbacka Municipality.

[[Varberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Varberg is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Varberg Municipality.

[[Scott Glenn]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Theodore Scott Glenn (born January 26, 1939 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) is an American actor. He is known for his roles in Urban Cowboy, The Right Stuff, The Silence of the Lambs, Surfer, Dude, The Bourne Ultimatum, and in W..

[[Laholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Laholm is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Laholm Municipality.

[[Hyltebruk]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Hyltebruk is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hylte Municipality.

[[Vindeln]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Vindeln is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Vindeln Municipality.

[[Ånge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Ånge is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Ånge Municipality.

[[Åsele]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Åsele is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Åsele Municipality.

[[Åmsele]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Åmsele is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is in the municipality of Vindeln.

[[Hallstahammar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Hallstahammar is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hallstahammar Municipality.

[[Surahammar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Surahammar is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Surahammar Municipality.

[[Seasoning]]

CATEGORIES: Cooking

Seasoning is when salt, herbs, or spices is added to food to make it taste better. There are many ways of adding seasoning in different cultures. For example, in some cultures, meat may be seasoned by pouring sauce over the dish when it is on the table.

[[Gällivare]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Gällivare is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Gällivare Municipality.

[[Malmberget]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Malmberget is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is in the municipality of Gällivare.

[[Munkfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Munkfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Munkfors Municipality.

[[Storfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Storfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Storfors Municipality. Storfors is the home of the Lundsbergs boarding school.

[[Hofors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Hofors is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Hofors Municipality.

[[Centerville, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1894 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in South Dakota

Centerville is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 882 people lived there at the 2010 census. Centerville became a city in 1894.

[[Hällefors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Hällefors is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Hällefors Municipality.

[[Paulinus of York]]

CATEGORIES: 6th century births, 640s deaths, Christian saints, History of England, Italian Roman Catholics, Missionaries, Monks, People from York, Roman Catholic archbishops

Paulinus (also St. Paulinus) (died 644) was the first Bishop of York. He was named Archbishop of York by the pope, but had left Northumbria before the news reached him. He then became the Bishop of Rochester, in Kent. After his death he was venerated as a saint.

[[Flen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Flen is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Flen Municipality.

Other things which made Flen famous is "Violen från Flen", a song written by Ulf Peder Olrog in the 1940s. The town also plays an important role in "Du ringde från Flen", 1992 dansband song by Grönwalls. The town is also mentioned in the Kent songs "Flen/Paris" on the 2005 EP "The Hjärta & Smärta EP" and "Ensam lång väg hem" on the 2010 album "En plats i solen".

[[Hälleforsnäs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Hälleforsnäs is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is located within the municipality of Flen.

[[Lesjöfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Lesjöfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is located within the municipality of Filipstad.

[[Aneby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Aneby is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Aneby Municipality.

[[Norberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Norberg is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Norberg Municipality.

[[Sala]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Sala is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Sala Municipality.

[[Arvidsjaur]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Arvidsjaur is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Arvidsjaur Municipality.

[[Arjeplog]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Arjeplog is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Arjeplog Municipality.

[[Dorotea]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Dorotea is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Dorotea Municipality.

[[Storuman]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Storuman is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Storuman Municipality.

[[Vilhelmina]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Vilhelmina is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Vilhelmina Municipality.

[[Nykvarn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Nykvarn is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Nykvarn Municipality.

[[Åseda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Åseda is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Uppvidinge Municipality.

[[Hammarstrand]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Hammarstrand is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ragunda Municipality.

[[Strömsund]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Strömsund is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Strömsund Municipality.

[[T-26]]

CATEGORIES: Tanks

The T-26 tank was a Soviet light infantry tank used during many wars of the 1930s as well as during World War II. It was an improved version of the British Vickers 6-Ton tank. It was one of the best and last tank designs of the 1920s. The tank started to have problems when new anti-tank guns were invented. The tank had thin armor which the new guns could fire holes in.

More T-26s were produced than any other tank of the period. More than 11,000 were manufactured. During the 1930s, the USSR made 53 different types of T-26.

The T-26 together with the BT was the main tank of the Red Army in the 1930s. Even though it was no longer good enough to be used in battles at the beginning of World War II, the T-26 was the most important tank of the Spanish Civil War. It was also used during the Battle of Lake Khasan in 1938 and in the Winter War in 1939–40. The Red Army mostly had T-26s during the German invasion of the Soviet Union in June 1941. The T-26 was used against the Germans in the Battle of Moscow in winter 1941/1942, the Battle of Stalingrad and the Battle of the Caucasus in 1942–1943. Some tank units of the Leningrad Front used their T-26s until 1944. The Soviet T-26 light tanks were last used in August 1945, during the defeat of the Japanese in Manchuria.

The T-26 was sold to Spain, China and Turkey. In addition, captured T-26 light tanks were used by the Finnish, German, Romanian and Hungarian armies.

The T-26 was reliable and simple to maintain Its design was improved between 1931 and 1941. However, no new models of the T-26 were made after 1940.

[[Kramfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasternorrland County

Kramfors is an urban area in the county of Västernorrland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kramfors Municipality.

[[Pajala]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Pajala is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Pajala Municipality.

[[Övertorneå]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Övertorneå is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Övertorneå Municipality.

[[Överkalix]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Överkalix (Ylikainuu) is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Överkalix Municipality.

[[Älvsbyn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Norrbotten County

Älvsbyn is an urban area in the county of Norrbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Älvsbyn Municipality.

[[Hipster (contemporary subculture)]]

CATEGORIES: Subculture

Hipster refers to a subculture of young, urban middle-class adults and older teenagers. Hipsters first appeared in the 1990s and became more noticeable in the 2010s. It is based on the earlier movements in the 1940s. Hipsters listen to independent music and alternative music. They dress in clothes that are different from other people. Hipsters wear vintage clothes and thrift store clothes. Hipsters have pacifist and green views. They have an alternative way of living.

Hipster culture mixes styles, tastes and ways of behaving. Christian Lorentzen of Time Out New York says that hipsters copy many styles, including beat, hippie, punk, and grunge. Lorentzen says that hipsters are mostly white 18- to 45-year old people.

In a Huffington Post article entitled "Who's a Hipster?", Julia Plevin says that it hard to define who is a hipster.

As hipsters moved into suburbs near New York City, The New York Times made up the new word "Hipsturbia" to describe how hipsters live in suburbs.

[[Matti Ranin]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Finnish movie actors, Finnish stage actors, Finnish television actors

Matti Helge Ranin (21 November 1926 – 24 November 2013) was a Finnish actor. He was well known for his role as Captain Kariluoto in Edvin Laine's The Unknown Soldier.

Ranin was born in Tampere, Finland. He died on 24 November 2013 in Helsinki from natural causes, aged 87.

[[Costanzo Preve]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2013 deaths, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, Italian atheists, Italian philosophers, Marxism, Writers from Piedmont

Costanzo Preve (14 April 1943 – 23 November 2013) was an Italian philosopher and a political theoretician. He was born in Valenza. He is thought to be as one of the most important anti-capitalist European thinkers and a renowned expert in the history of Marxism. He was influenced by Fichte, Hegel, and Marx.

He was an atheist. Preve died in Turin where he lived on 23 November 2013, aged 70.

[[Marion, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1881 establishments in Dakota Territory

Marion is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 784 people lived there at the 2010 census. Marion became a city in 1881.

[[Bjurholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Bjurholm is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Bjurholm Municipality.

[[Malå]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Malå is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Malå Municipality.

[[Nordmaling]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Nordmaling is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Nordmaling Municipality.

[[Norsjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Norsjö is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Norsjö Municipality.

[[Robertsfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Robertsfors is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Robertsfors Municipality.

[[Sorsele]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Sorsele is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Sorsele Municipality.

[[Vännäs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vasterbotten County

Vännäs is an urban area in the county of Västerbotten in Sweden. It is the seat of Vännäs Municipality.

[[Krokom]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Krokom is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Krokom Municipality.

[[Sri Lanka cricket team]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket, Sport in Sri Lanka

Sri Lankan Cricket Team is the national cricket team of Sri Lanka. There have been a number of cricket playing legends from Sri Lanka. Two of the most famous players were Kumar Sangakkara and Sanath Jayasuriya.  

[[Järpen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Järpen is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Åre Municipality.

[[Bräcke]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Bräcke is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Bräcke Municipality.

[[Svenstavik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jamtland County

Svenstavik is an urban area in the county of Jämtland in Sweden. It is the seat of Berg Municipality.

[[Hudiksvall]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Hudiksvall (hɵdɪksˈvalː) is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Hudiksvall Municipality.

[[Bergsjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Bergsjö is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Nordanstig Municipality.

[[Ockelbo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Gavleborg County

Ockelbo is an urban area in the county of Gävleborg in Sweden. It is the seat of Ockelbo Municipality.

[[Ablutophobia]]

CATEGORIES: Phobias

Ablutophobia is a fear of bathing, washing, or cleaning. It is a type of specific phobia. It is most often seen in children and women.

[[Cyberphobia]]

CATEGORIES: Phobias

Cyberphobia is a fear of working with computers. People who have cyberphobia are afraid or not able to learn new technologies. It is a type of specific phobia. It was first used in 1985.

[[Staffanstorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Staffanstorp is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Staffanstorp Municipality.

[[Hörby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Hörby is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Hörby Municipality.

[[Höör]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Höör is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Höör Municipality.

[[Åhus]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Åhus is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is in Kristianstad Municipality.

[[Broby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Broby is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Östra Göinge Municipality.

[[Bjuv]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Bjuv is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Bjuv Municipality. In November 1994, the place became well known for a murder kicking off a debate over role-playing games.

[[Åstorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Åstorp is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Åstorp Municipality.

[[Klippan]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Klippan is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Klippan Municipality. In September 1995, Klippan became famous for a racist murder.

[[War of the Spanish Succession]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century in Europe, Wars

The War of the Spanish Succession was fought from 1701 to 1714 over who had the right to be the next king of Spain after Charles II had died childless. France wanted the new king to be Philip of Anjou, a relative of its own king. Great Britain, the Dutch Republic and other states in Europe opposed that because they wanted to prevent France from becoming more powerful.

The war was fought mostly in Europe, but there were battles also in the West Indies, South America and North America. In North America, the war is called Queen Anne's War since the queen of Great Britain was Queen Anne.

The war ended by Philip of Anjou winning. Britain and its allies finally accepted him to become the next king of Spain, but Philip V had to gave up his right to be king of France. Austria got most of Spanish Italy, and Britain got Spanish Menorca and Gibraltar.

[[Örkelljunga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Örkelljunga is an urban area in the county of Scania in Sweden. It is the seat of Örkelljunga Municipality.

[[Kungälv]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Kungälv is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kungälv Municipality.

[[Mölndal]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Mölndal is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mölndal Municipality.

[[Survivor Series (1997)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 in professional wrestling, 1997 in Canada, Sport in Montreal, Survivor Series, 20th century in Montreal

Survivor Series (1997) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 9, 1997 at Molson Centre in Montreal, Quebec. It was the eleventh Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

The main event was shrouded in controversy after a real life event happened which was later dubbed the "Montreal Screwjob". Vince McMahon ordered the referee Earl Hebner to end the match when Shawn Michaels held Bret Hart in Hart's own finishing maneuver, the Sharpshooter, even though Hart did not submit.

[[Beth Ditto]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, American feminists, American LGBT people, American rock singers, Lesbian feminists, LGBT singers, Musicians from Arkansas

Beth Ditto (born February 19, 1981) is an American singer-songwriter. She is known for being the singer of the Gossip.

[[Lilla Edet]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Lilla Edet is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Lilla Edet Municipality.

[[Ljungskile]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Ljungskile is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is in Uddevalla Municipality.

[[Stenungsund]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Stenungsund is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Stenungsund Municipality.

[[Marstrand]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Marstrand is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is in Kungälv Municipality.

[[Henån]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Henån is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Orust Municipality.

[[Survivor Series (2013)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in American television, 2013 in professional wrestling, Sports in Boston, Massachusetts, Survivor Series, 2013 in the United States, 2010s in Boston, Massachusetts

Survivor Series (2013) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by WWE. It was held on November 24, 2013 at the TD Garden in Boston, Massachusetts. It was the twenty seventh Survivor Series event held by the WWE.

[[Skärhamn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Skärhamn is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tjörn Municipality.

[[Gagnef]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Gagnef is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Gagnef Municipality.

[[Hedemora]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Hedemora is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Hedemora Municipality.

[[Smedjebacken]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Smedjebacken is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Smedjebacken Municipality.

[[Arvika]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Arvika is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Arvika Municipality.

[[Arboga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Arboga is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Arboga Municipality.

[[Alvesta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Alvesta is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Alvesta Municipality.

[[Sunne]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Sunne is a city in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Sunne Municipality. 

[[Grums]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Grums is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Grums Municipality.

[[Mönsterås]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Mönsterås is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Mönsterås Municipality.

[[Målilla]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Målilla is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is in Hultsfred Municipality.

[[Hultsfred]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Hultsfred is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Hultsfred Municipality. Hultsfred is well-known for the Hultsfred Festival.

[[Slottsbron]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Slottsbron is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is in Grums Municipality.

[[Tylösand]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Halland County

Tylösand is an urban area in the county of Halland in Sweden. It is in Halmstad Municipality. In the summertime, it is a well-known seaside resort.

[[Ed, Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Ed is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Dals-Ed Municipality.

[[Mellerud]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Mellerud is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mellerud Municipality.

[[Strömstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Strömstad is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Strömstad Municipality.

[[Tanumshede]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County, World Heritage Sites in Sweden

Tanumshede is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tanum Municipality.

The Rock Carvings in Tanum are a collection of petroglyphs near Tanumshede. They were declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1994. In total there are thousands of images on about 600 panels.

[[Jukebox]]

CATEGORIES: Music technology

Jukeboxes are musical devices that play any selected song that is stored on it. They are partially automatic and usually operated by coin. The term jukebox came into use close to 1940, though in fact similar music devices were in use before that. The machines, however, have declined and been replaced by digital audio players and Internet music.

[[Enköping]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Enköping is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Enköping Municipality.

[[Söderköping]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Söderköping is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Söderköping Municipality.

[[Köping]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Köping is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Köping Municipality.

[[Seaside resort]]

CATEGORIES: Tourism

A seaside resort is a resort town that is along the coast. Usually, there are several resort hotels there. A resort with a beach may also be called a beach resort.

[[Battle of the Malacca Strait]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific battles of World War II, Battles involving the United Kingdom, 1945 in Japan, May 1945 events

The Battle of the Malacca Strait, sometimes called the Sinking of the ''Haguro, was a naval battle in World War II. The battle started because the British were searching for Japanese ships to sink. This May 1945 action was called Operation Dukedom. It resulted in the sinking of the Japanese cruiser Japanese cruiser. Haguro'' had been supplying Japanese troops in the Dutch East Indies and the Bay of Bengal since 1 May 1945.

[[What's Eating Gilbert Grape]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1993 romance movies, 1993 comedy movies, American romantic comedy movies, Movies directed by Lasse Hallström

The movie What's Eating Gilbert Grape is a 1993 romantic comedy-drama. This movie is about several men in Iowa, one of whom is mentally retarded. The title character, Gilbert (Johnny Depp), cares for his brother Arnie (Leonardo DiCaprio) because of his issue, and also for his mother, Bonnie, who is very overweight (Darlene Cates). Juliette Lewis plays Becky. The movie was shown on December 17, 1993 with a limited release. It was released elsewhere between February and March 1994. The reviews were very positive with low box office.

[[Open city]]

CATEGORIES: War

In war, when enemy forces are close to capturing a city, the government or military forces in control of the city will sometimes call the city an open city. This means that they will not try to defend the city. The attacking armies will be expected to not to bomb or attack the city. This approach aims to prevent historic landmarks from being destroyed and civilians from being killed.

[[Attrition warfare]]

CATEGORIES: Military terminology, Military tactics

A war of attrition is a military strategy in which one side tries to cause so many losses of soldiers and so much destruction of military equipment that it wears down the enemy forces until they collapse. The side with more resources (soldiers and military equipment) is the side that usually wins.

[[Natillas]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts

Natillas is a type of food.  Natillas refers to a variety of dishes in Spanish-speaking countries.

In Spain natillas is a custard dish.  In Colombia the dish called natilla is often served at Christmas.  It is like a flan or pudding.  In Peru natillas are from Piura and they are elaborated from chancaca. Mexico uses the term for a thicker version of the dessert drink called "Atole leche".  In Costa Rica it is a sour cream-like dairy product used as a condiment. 

[[Rhyolite]]

CATEGORIES: Igneous rocks

Rhyolite is a very strong igneous, volcanic rock.

German geologist Ferdinand von Richthofen named the rock.  

[[Viborg, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1903 establishments in the United States, 1900s establishments in South Dakota

Viborg is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 782 people lived there at the 2010 census. Viborg became a city in 1903.

[[Hurley, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Dakota, 1883 establishments in Dakota Territory

Hurley is a city in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 415 people lived there at the 2010 census. Hurley became a city in 1883.

[[The Counselor]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 crime movies, 2013 drama movies, 2013 thriller movies, 2010s crime drama movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, 2010s drama thriller movies, American crime drama movies, American crime thriller movies, American drama thriller movies, Amsterdam, British crime drama movies, British thriller movies, English-language movies, Film noir, Movies about drugs, Movies set in London, Movies set in Mexico, Movies set in Texas, Movies set in the Netherlands, Movies directed by Ridley Scott

The Counselor is a 2013 British-American crime drama thriller movie. It is about human nature, greed and death. Penélope Cruz plays Laura, Cameron Diaz plays Malkina and Rosie Perez plays Ruth. The movie got mixed reviews by the critics. It got back close to $47 million, $22 million past its budget. This movie, however, was considered a flop. It was released in October and November 2013.

[[Jah Wobble]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Singers from London, English guitarists

Jah Wobble (born 11 August 1958) is an English bass guitarist, singer, and poet. He was Public Image Ltd's first bass player. He left after making two albums with the band in 1980. He has worked with many musicians since. In September 2010 a book Wobble wrote about his life, Memoirs of a Geezer, was published.

[[Andrea del Sarto]]

CATEGORIES: 1486 births, 1530 deaths, People from Florence, 15th century Italian painters, 16th century Italian painters

Andrea del Sarto (born 16 July 1486) was an Italian painter.  He was considered an important artist during his lifetime.  

Perhaps the best known painting by Andrea del Sarto is the Madonna of the Harpies.  The painting shows the Virgin Mary and child on a pedestal, with angels and two saints by her side.

[[Andrea Mantegna]]

CATEGORIES: 1431 births, 1506 deaths, 15th century Italian painters

Andrea Mantegna (born about 1431) was an Italian painter.

[[Little Earthquakes]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 albums, Tori Amos albums

Little Earthquakes is the first solo album by Tori Amos. Five singles were released from it. The album got good reviews from music critics. It is the only Tori Amos album in the book 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die.

[[Shirley Ann Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, American physicists, Living people, Female scientists

Shirley Ann Jackson (born August 5, 1946) is an American physicist. She is President of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. In 1973 she became the first African-American women to get a doctorate degree in nuclear physics. She was also the first to get this degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 

She was named one of the 50 Most Important Women in Science by Discover magazine. In 2007 the National Science Board gave Jackson the Vannevar Bush Award for "a lifetime of achievements in scientific research, education and senior statesman-like contributions to public policy". 

[[From the Choirgirl Hotel]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 albums, Tori Amos albums

From the Choirgirl Hotel is the fourth album by Tori Amos. It was released May 5, 1998. It went straight to No.6 in the UK Albums Chart. The album's third single "Raspberry Swirl" was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance in 1999. Rolling Stone rated the album four stars.

[[American Doll Posse]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums, Tori Amos albums, Concept albums, Rock albums

American Doll Posse is the ninth album by Tori Amos. It was released May 1, 2007. It was Amos' last album on Epic Records. Rolling Stone gave it 3 stars. The album has 23 songs.

[[Under the Pink]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 albums, Tori Amos albums

Under the Pink is the second solo album by singer-songwriter Tori Amos. It was released January 31, 1994. Four singles were released from it. The third single, "Cornflake Girl", reached number 4 on the UK Singles Chart. The album went straight to number 1 in the UK. 

[[Abnormally Attracted to Sin]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums, Tori Amos albums

Abnormally Attracted to Sin is the tenth solo studio album by singer-songwriter Tori Amos. It was released May 19, 2009. Amos made the album in Cornwall.

[[Gold Dust (Tori Amos album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, Tori Amos albums

Gold Dust is the thirteenth solo studio album by singer-songwriter Tori Amos. It was released on October 1, 2012 by Deutsche Grammophon and Mercury Classics. One single was released from it, "Flavor".

[[Tavi Gevinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births, American writers, American feminists, Living people, Bloggers, American bloggers

Tavi Gevinson (born April 21, 1996) is an American writer and blogger. In 2008 she started a blog called Style Rookie. She posted pictures of herself wearing outfits and wrote about the latest fashion trends. The blog was successful. Due to its success Gevinson was asked to go to New York Fashion Week and Paris Fashion Week. In autumn 2011, Gevinson made a website called Rookie. Rookie is an internet magazine for teenage girls.

[[Tribal Hidage]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, History of England

The Tribal Hidage is generally considered to be a tribute list dated to 7th or 8th century Anglo-Saxon England. It was a list of 35 tribes that made up the majority of the peoples living in southern England at that time. Each tribe or kingdom on the list had a rounded off number of hides (units of land measurement). Modern historians believe it was created by either Mercian or Northumbrian overlords to collect tribute from the other groups.

[[Ed]]

Ed, ed or ED can refer to several things:

[[Quvenzhané Wallis]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 births, Actors from Louisiana, African American actors, Living people, American television actors, American voice actors, African American writers, Writers from Louisiana

Quvenzhané Wallis (born August 28, 2003) is an American actress. Wallis' first movie was Beasts of the Southern Wild. She got nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actress. This made her the youngest person ever to be nominated for the award. 

Wallis played Margaret Northup in the 2013 movie 12 Years a Slave. Wallis also played Annie in a remake of the musical Annie. Wallis does the voice of Almitra in the animated movie The Prophet. 

Wallis was born in Houma, Louisiana.

[[To Venus and Back]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 albums, Tori Amos albums

To Venus and Back is the fifth album by Tori Amos. It was released on 20 September 1999 in the United Kingdom and on September 21, 1999 in the United States. The album has two discs. The first disc is called Venus: Orbiting. It has eleven new songs. The second disc is called  Venus Live: Still Orbiting. It is thirteen recordings of song performances Amos made in her Plugged '98 tour. The album was nominated for Best Alternative Music Album and Amos was nominated for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance for the song "Bliss" at the 2000 Grammy Awards. In 1999, Amos did a tour for the album, the "Five and a Half Weeks Tour".

[[Steve McQueen (director)]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Black British people, English artists, Movie directors from London

Steven Rodney "Steve" McQueen, CBE (born 9 October 1969) is a British movie director and artist. He has directed four feature films.

[[Adora Svitak]]

CATEGORIES: American writers, American feminists, Child prodigies, 1997 births, Living people

Adora Lily Svitak (born October 15, 1997) is an American child prodigy. When she was seven her first book, Flying Fingers, was published around the world. Her second book, Dancing Fingers, was published in April 2008. In January 2009 Channel 4 showed a documentary about gifted children called The World's Cleverest Child and Me. Svitak was in it. On March 14, 2011 her first novel, Yang in Disguise, was published. In February 2010 Svitak gave a talk for TED called "What Adults Can Learn From Kids". 

[[Louise Diane d'Orléans]]

CATEGORIES: 1716 births, 1736 deaths, House of Orléans, Deaths in childbirth, People from Paris

Louise Diane d'Orléans (27 June 1716 – 26 September 1736) was the last child of Philippe d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans (Regent of the Kingdom from 1715 to 1723) and his wife, Françoise Marie de Bourbon, the youngest illegitimate daughter of King Louis XIV of France and his mistress, Madame de Montespan. The Princess of Conti by marriage, she died in childbirth at the age of twenty. Some sources refer to her as Louis Diane. The princess used the name Louise.

[[Mjölby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Mjölby is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mjölby Municipality.

[[Ödeshög]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Ödeshög is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ödeshög Municipality.

[[Bollebygd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Bollebygd is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Bollebygd Municipality.

[[Kinna]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Kinna is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Mark Municipality.

[[Nyasasaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Triassic dinosaurs, Archosaurs

Nyasasaurus ("Lake Nyasa lizard") is an extinct genus of Archosaur reptile from the Middle Triassic Manda Beds of Tanzania. It may be the earliest known dinosaur. The discovery was a handful of bones from two individuals, so its anatomy is only partly known. The bones were collected in the early 1930s, but have only recently been analysed.

Researchers said: "Nyasasaurus possesses a unique combination of dinosaur character states and an elevated growth rate similar to that of definitive early dinosaurs. It demonstrates that the initial dinosaur radiation occurred over a longer timescale than previously thought (possibly 15 million years earlier)".

The find was six vertebrae and a humerus from one specimen, and five vertebrae from another. The humerus has a muscle attachment which is characteristic of dinosaurs (a long 'deltopectoral crest'). Other features are consistent with its being a basal dinosaur.

Previously, the oldest record of dinosaurs was from Argentina and dated back to the Upper Triassic Carnian stage, about 231.4 million years ago (mya). Nyasasaurus comes from a deposit that dates back to the Middle Triassic Anisian stage, meaning that it predates other early dinosaurs by about 15 million years.

[[Degerfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Degerfors is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Degerfors Municipality.

[[Österbymo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Österbymo is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ydre Municipality.

[[Lerum]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Lerum is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Lerum Municipality.

[[Kungsängen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Kungsängen is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Upplands-Bro Municipality.

[[Upplands Väsby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Upplands Väsby is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Upplands Väsby Municipality.

[[Årjäng]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Årjäng is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Årjäng Municipality.

[[Avesta, Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Avesta is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Avesta Municipality.

[[Kumla]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Kumla is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Kumla Municipality. Kumla is well-known for the Kumla Prison.

[[Hallsberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Hallsberg is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Hallsberg Municipality. Hallsberg is well-known for its railroad junctions.

[[Laxå]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Laxå is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Laxå Municipality.

[[Munkedal]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Munkedal is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Munkedal Municipality.

[[Emmaboda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Emmaboda is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Emmaboda Municipality.

[[Nödinge-Nol]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Nödinge-Nol is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Ale Municipality.

[[Osby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Osby is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Osby Municipality.

[[Älmhult]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Älmhult is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Älmhult Municipality.

[[Kil, Kil Municipality]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Kil is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kil Municipality.

[[Bengtsfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Bengtsfors is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Bengtsfors Municipality.

[[Åkersberga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Åkersberga is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Östhammar Municipality.

[[Vaxholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Vaxholm is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Vaxholm Municipality.

[[Skurup]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Skurup is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Skurup Municipality.

[[Bromölla]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Bromölla is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Bromölla Municipality.

[[Eksjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Eksjö is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Eksjö Municipality.

[[Gnosjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Gnosjö is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Gnosjö Municipality. In business management, Gnosjö is well-known for the Gnosjö Spirit (Gnosjöandan).

[[Vara]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Vara is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Vara Municipality.

[[Nybro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Nybro is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Nybro Municipality.

[[Sigtuna]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Sigtuna is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is in Sigtuna Municipality. Sigtuna is famous for the Sigtuna boarding school.

[[Märsta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Märsta is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Sigtuna Municipality.

[[Tumba]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Tumba is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is within both Botkyrka Municipality and Salem Municipality.

[[Sjöbo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Sjöbo is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Sjöbo Municipality.

[[Fagersta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Fagersta is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Fagersta Municipality.

[[Forshaga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Forshaga is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Forshaga Municipality.

[[Heby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Heby is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Heby Municipality.

[[Lysekil]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Lysekil is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Lysekil Municipality.

[[Alingsås]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Alingsås is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Alingsås Municipality.

[[Skoghall]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Skoghall is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hammarö Municipality.

[[Alafors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Alafors is a former urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is in the Ale Municipality.

[[Boxholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Boxholm is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Boxholm Municipality.

[[Arlöv]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Arlöv is a place in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Burlöv Municipality.

[[Båstad]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Båstad is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Båstad Municipality. In July every year, the Swedish Open international tennis tournament is played here.

[[Charlottenberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Charlottenberg is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Eda Municipality.

[[Ekerö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Ekerö is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Ekerö Municipality.

[[Eslöv]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Eslöv is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Eslöv Municipality.

[[Nossebro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Nossebro is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Essunga Municipality.

[[Finspång]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Finspång is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Finspång Municipality.

[[Färgelanda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Färgelanda is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Färgelanda Municipality.

[[Gnesta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Gnesta is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Gnesta Municipality. Parts of the urban area span into Södertälje Municipality within Stockholm County.

[[Grästorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Grästorp is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Grästorp Municipality.

[[Gullspång]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Gullspång is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Gullspång Municipality.

[[Mölnlycke]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Mölnlycke is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Härryda Municipality. Parts of the urban area are located within Mölndal Municipality.

[[Götene]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Götene is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Götene Municipality.

[[The Simpsons Skateboarding]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 video games, PlayStation 2 games, The Simpsons

The Simpsons: Skateboarding is a sports video game based on the animated television show The Simpsons. It was released for the PlayStation 2 in 2002. The game involves the different characters of the show taking part in a skateboarding contest across Springfield. 

[[Töreboda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Töreboda is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Töreboda Municipality.

[[Markaryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Markaryd is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Markaryd Municipality.

[[Hagfors]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Hagfors is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Hagfors Municipality.

[[Handen]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Handen is an place in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Haninge Municipality.

[[Herrljunga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Herrljunga is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Herrljunga Municipality.

[[Hässleholm]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Hässleholm is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Hässleholm Municipality.

[[Höganäs]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Höganäs is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Höganäs Municipality.

[[Högsby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Högsby is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Högsby Municipality.

[[Jakobsberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Jakobsberg is a place in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Järfälla Municipality.

[[Kisa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Kisa is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kinda Municipality. In May 1999, a bank robbery was carried out here, famous for its connection to the Malexander Police Murders.

[[Knivsta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Knivsta is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Knivsta Municipality.

[[Kungsör]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Kungsör is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Kungsör Municipality.

[[Kävlinge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Kävlinge is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Kävlinge Municipality.

[[Fjugesta]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Fjugesta is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Lekeberg Municipality.

[[Lessebo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Lessebo is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Lessebo Municipality.

[[Ljungby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Ljungby is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Ljungby Municipality. In 2015 there lived 15,785 people in Ljungby.

[[Lomma]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Lomma is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Lomma Municipality.

[[Kopparberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Orebro County

Kopparberg is an urban area in the county of Örebro in Sweden. It is the seat of Ljusnarsberg Municipality.

[[Orsa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Orsa is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Orsa Municipality.

[[Ludvika]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Ludvika is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Ludvika Municipality.

[[Perstorp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Perstorp is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Perstorp Municipality.

[[Partille]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Partille is a former urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Partille Municipality.

[[Salem, Sweden]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Salem is a place in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Salem Municipality, and part of the Tumba urban area.

[[Simrishamn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Simrishamn is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Simrishamn Municipality.

[[Skinnskatteberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastmanland County

Skinnskatteberg is an urban area in the county of Västmanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Skinnskatteberg Municipality.

[[Kungshamn]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Kungshamn is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Sotenäs Municipality.

[[Svalöv]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Svalöv is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Svalöv Municipality.

[[Svedala]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Svedala is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Svedala Municipality.

[[Svenljunga]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Svenljunga is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Svenljunga Municipality.

[[Bollmora]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Bollmora is a former urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Tyresö Municipality.

[[Säffle]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Säffle is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Säffle Municipality.

[[Sävsjö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Jonkoping County

Sävsjö is an urban area in the county of Jönköping in Sweden. It is the seat of Sävsjö Municipality.

[[Säter]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Säter is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Säter Municipality.

[[Tibro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Tibro is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tibro Municipality.

[[Tierp]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Tierp is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Tierp Municipality.

[[Tingsryd]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kronoberg County

Tingsryd is an urban area in the county of Kronoberg in Sweden. It is the seat of Tingsryd Municipality.

[[Tomelilla]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Tomelilla is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Tomelilla Municipality.

[[Torsby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Varmland County

Torsby is an urban area in the county of Värmland in Sweden. It is the seat of Torsby Municipality.

[[Torsås]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kalmar County

Torsås is an urban area in the county of Kalmar in Sweden. It is the seat of Torsås Municipality.

[[Tranemo]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Tranemo is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Tranemo Municipality.

[[Trosa]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Trosa is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Trosa Municipality.

[[Täby]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Täby is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Täby Municipality, but parts of it span into Danderyd Municipality and Sollentuna Municipality.

[[Valdemarsvik]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Valdemarsvik is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Valdemarsvik Municipality.

[[Vallentuna]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Stockholm County

Vallentuna is an urban area in the county of Stockholm in Sweden. It is the seat of Vallentuna Municipality, but also spans into Täby Municipality.

[[Vansbro]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Dalarna County

Vansbro is an urban area in the county of Dalarna in Sweden. It is the seat of Vansbro Municipality.

[[Vellinge]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Skane County

Vellinge is an urban area in the county of Skåne in Sweden. It is the seat of Vellinge Municipality.

[[Vingåker]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Sodermanland County

Vingåker is an urban area in the county of Södermanland in Sweden. It is the seat of Vingåker Municipality.

[[Vårgårda]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Vårgårda is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Vårgårda Municipality.

[[Åtvidaberg]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Ostergotland County

Åtvidaberg is an urban area in the county of Östergötland in Sweden. It is the seat of Åtvidaberg Municipality.

[[Öckerö]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Vastra Gotaland County

Öckerö is an urban area in the county of Västra Götaland in Sweden. It is the seat of Öckerö Municipality.

[[Östhammar]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Uppsala County

Östhammar is an urban area in the county of Uppsala in Sweden. It is the seat of Östhammar Municipality.

[[Breathe Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American music groups, Musical groups from Colorado, Electronic music bands, American rock bands, Musical groups established in 2006, 2006 establishments in the United States, 2000s establishments in Colorado

Breathe Carolina is an American electronic rock group from Denver, Colorado. It formed in early 2006. Its members are lead vocalist David Schmitt, drummer Eric Armenta, keyboardist Luis Bonet, and guitarist Tommy Cooperman. The band is best known for their successful single "Blackout", released in June 2011. It peaked at number 17 on the U.S. Billboard Pop Songs chart. Since 2008, the band has released three full-length studio albums: It's Classy, Not Classic, Hello Fascination, and Hell Is What You Make It.

The group has also been featured on many compilation albums, such as Punk Goes Pop 2, Warped Tour 2010, Punk Goes Pop 3, Tis the Season to be Fearless, and Punk Goes Pop 5. Breathe Carolina's covers include "Down" by Jay Sean, "See You Again" by Miley Cyrus, and "Billie Jean" by Michael Jackson. 

[[It's Classy, Not Classic]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums

italic title

, Not Classic'(2008)

It's Classy, Not Classic is the debut studio album by electronicore band Breathe Carolina. It was released on September 16, 2008 in the United States. It was released by Rise Records. The single "Diamonds" was released in February, 2009. The album charted at No. 186 on the U.S. Billboard 200 albums chart.

The album has been compared to other artists such as Jeffree Star and Blood on the Dancefloor.

[[Hello Fascination]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums

italic title

Hello Fascination is an album by electronicore band Breathe Carolina. It is their second full-length studio album. It was released on August 18, 2009 through Fearless Records in the United States and Canada.

The lead single "Welcome to Savannah" was released on July 7, 2009. The second single, "Hello Fascination", was released on February 2, 2010. It gained the group minor success. The third and final single, "I.D.G.A.F.", was released in July of 2010. The album charted at number 43 on the U.S. Billboard 200 albums chart. It also peaked at number 2 on the Billboard Dance/Electronic Albums chart.

The album was produced by Mike Green and Matthew Squire. They have also worked with Good Charlotte, All Time Low, 3OH!3, Boys Like Girls, and Panic! At the Disco.

[[NXT Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment championships

The NXT Championship is a professional wrestling championship in the WWE. The title is a NXT-only championship.

[[David Sedaris]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Comedians from New York, Living people, Writers from New York, Writers from Raleigh, North Carolina, People from Binghamton, New York

David Sedaris is an American comedian and writer. His first book, Barrel Fever, was published 1994. Half of the book is short stories. The other half is essays Sedaris wrote about himself. In 1997, he published another collection of essays, Naked. It won the Randy Shilts Award for Gay Non-Fiction in 1998. In 1999, Me Talk Pretty One Day was published. Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim was published 2004. Sedaris was recorded reading the book for the Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim audiobook. It was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Comedy Album.

[[River Don, South Yorkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England, Yorkshire

The River Don (also called the Dun in some sections) is a river in South Yorkshire, England. It begins in the Pennines and flows for 70 eastwards, through the Don Valley. It originally joined with the Trent, but was re-engineered in the 1620s, and now joins the River Ouse at Goole in the East Riding of Yorkshire. 

The Don can be divided into sections by the different types of structures built to restrict its passage. The upper section has dams built to provide a public water supply. The middle section contains many weirs, which were built to power water wheels. The lower section contains weirs and locks, designed to allow for river navigation. 

The Don's major tributaries are the Loxley, the Rivelin, the Sheaf, the Rother and the Dearne. The Don gets its name from Dôn (or Danu), a Celtic mother goddess. The river gave its name to the Don River in Ontario, which runs through Toronto, Canada.

[[Artpop]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums, Lady Gaga albums, Dance albums, Pop albums

Artpop (styled in all capital letters) is the third studio album by American recording artist Lady Gaga. It was released on November 11, 2013. The album was mainly produced by Gaga along with DJ White Shadow and Zedd, among other producers.

Two official singles have been released from the album. The first single "Applause" was released in August 2013 and has reached #4 on the Billboard Hot 100 and Canadian Hot 100, while reaching number five in the United Kingdom.  The second single, "Do What U Want," was released on October 21, 2013. Written with R. Kelly, it has peaked at #13 on the Hot 100.  The song also reached the top ten in Canada and the UK. In 2019, Gaga had the song removed from online music services after the release of the documentary Surviving R. Kelly. On January 1, 2014, Gaga released a remix of the song with singer Christina Aguilera. "G.U.Y." was released as the album's third single and charted moderately.

Both singles reached the top ten of Billboard's Mainstream Top 40 (Pop Songs) radio chart, reaching #4 and #7, respectively.

The album debuted at #1 in many countries, particularly in the United States on the Billboard 200 album chart and the UK Albums Chart.  Artpop sold 258,000 copies in its first week in America and became Gaga's second number-one album in the US, after Born This Way.

[[Tony Sirico]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

Genaro Anthony "Tony" Sirico, Jr. (born July 29, 1942) is an American character actor. He is known for his role as the mobster Paulie "Walnuts" Gualtieri in the television series The Sopranos. He also provided the voice of Vinny Griffin on the sitcom Family Guy.

[[Chico Hamilton]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, American jazz musicians, African American musicians, Bandleaders, Musicians from Los Angeles, California

Chico Hamilton (Foreststorn Hamilton, September 20, 1921 – November 25, 2013) was an American jazz drummer and bandleader.

Hamilton was born Foreststorn Hamilton in Los Angeles, California on September 20, 1921. His brother was actor Bernie Hamilton. Hamilton died on November 25, 2013 in Manhattan, New York from unknown causes, aged 92.

[[Bloody Sunday (1972)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 in Europe, 1970s in the United Kingdom, British Army, Crime in Northern Ireland, January events, Mass murder in the 1970s, Mass shootings in Europe, Massacres in the United Kingdom, Murders by firearm in the United Kingdom, The Troubles

Bloody Sunday (Domhnach na Fola)—sometimes called the Bogside Massacre—happened on 30 January 1972, in the Bogside area of Londonderry, Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. During this protest against internment, some protesters threw stones. 26 unarmed civil rights protesters and spectators were shot by British soldiers. Thirteen males, most of whom were in their teens and twenties, were killed. A fourteenth man died from his injuries four-and-a-half months later. Two protesters were also hit by army vehicles. Five of the wounded were shot in the back. The incident happened during a Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association march. The soldiers involved were members of the First Battalion of the Parachute Regiment (1 Para).

Two investigations have been held by the British government. The Widgery Tribunal, held soon after the event, said that the soldiers and British authorities were almost reckless. Critics said the report made it seem like the British did nothing wrong. The Saville Inquiry was held in 1998 to investigate the events a second time. The inquiry took 12 years. The report was made public on 15 June 2010. The report said that some soldiers were wrong to have shot the protesters. The report found that all of the people shot were unarmed, and that the killings were "unjustified". When the Saville report was published, the British prime minister, David Cameron, said sorry to the victims.

The Provisional Irish Republican Army's (IRA) war against the partition of Ireland had begun in the two years before the incident. The incident helped the IRA to recruit new members. Bloody Sunday remains among the most important events in the Troubles of Northern Ireland. The reason it is seen as so important is because those who died were shot by the British Army rather than paramilitaries.

[[Silliness]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions, Comedy, Psychology

Silliness is when a person acts like a fool, or shows a lack of good sense or judgment. In television, movies, and the circus, silliness such as exaggerated, funny behavior is used to make audiences laugh. Clowns and jesters act in a silly way to make people feel better.

[[Maven (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Virginia, Former WWE wrestlers

Maven Klint Huffman (born March 26, 1976) is a retired American professional wrestler. He is best known for working with World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment under his real first name. 

He was the co-winner of the first season of Tough Enough along with Nidia Guenard. During his time in the WWF/E, he had notable feuds with The Undertaker after eliminating after Maven eliminated Undertaker from the 2002 Royal Rumble and Evolution. He also won the WWF Hardcore Championship three times.

He currently works as a bouncer in New York City.

[[Saar Offensive]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 in Europe, 1930s in Germany, Battles involving France, Battles involving Germany, European battles of World War II, September events

The Saar Offensive was a French ground offensive (attack) into Saarland during World War II. It was done from 7 to 16 September 1939. This area of Saarland was defended by the German 1st Army. The purpose of the attack was to help Poland, which was under attack at the time. The offensive was to have been done by 40 divisions, including one armored division, three mechanised divisions, 78 artillery regiments and 40 tank battalions. The offensive was stopped and the French forces eventually retreated when the Germans attacked them on 17 October.

[[Battle of Hatfield Chase]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, Battles involving England, Battles of the Middle Ages, Battles, 633, October events

The Battle of Hatfield Chase was fought on 12 October 633 at Hatfield Chase near Doncaster in present-day Yorkshire. The pagan King Penda of Mercia and the Christian king of Gynedd, Cadwallon ap Cadfan joined forces to attack Northumbria.

King Edwin met them in the southern part of his kingdom. In the battle Edwin was killed and his army was defeated. Cadwallon destroyed as much of Northumbria as he could. This led to the end of Northumbrian dominance over southern England for a short time.

[[Big John Studd]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 1995 deaths, American movie actors, American professional wrestlers, American television actors, Deaths from liver cancer, Deaths from Hodgkin's lymphoma, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania, WWE Hall of Fame

John Minton (February 19, 1948 – March 20, 1995) was an American professional wrestler and actor. 

He is known for competing in the World Wrestling Federation from 1982 to 1986 and from 1988 to 1989. Minton was also an actor in both .

Minton died on March 20, 1995 from liver cancer and Hodgkin's disease. Lou Albano revealed in 2000 that Minton had also suffered from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.

Minton was inducted into the WCW Hall of Fame in 1995 and the WWE Hall of Fame by Big Show in 2004.

[[What About Your Friends]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 songs, TLC songs

"What About Your Friends" is a song by TLC. It is the third single from their debut album, Ooooooohhh... On the TLC Tip. It reached #7 on the Billboard Hot 100. This made it the group's third consecutive top-ten single.

[[The Favor]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1994 movies

The Favor is a 1994 romantic-comedy movie. It is about friendship betrayals and heartbreak. The Favor was shot in 1990 although not released until late April-early May in 1994. Elizabeth McGovern and Brad Pitt are part of the cast. The reviews of the movie were not good.

[[Anne Anastasi]]

CATEGORIES: American psychologists, 1908 births, 2001 deaths

Anne Anastasi (December 19th 1908-May 4th 2001) is one of the founders of American Psychology and contributed to Psychometrics. She helped improve psychological testing. She wrote a textbook, Psychological Testing, which is still used today.  She made psychological testing more reliable and personal. She also helped improve the number of women in going into psychology.

[[Lesser Sunda Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Lesser Sunda Islands

The Lesser Sunda Islands (or Nusa Tenggara) are a group of islands in southern Southeast Asia, north of Australia. Together with the Greater Sunda Islands to the west they make up the Sunda Islands. The islands belong to Indonesia and East Timor.

The Sunda Islands are part of a volcanic arc, the Sunda Arc. This arc is formed by subduction along the Java Trench in the Java Sea.

[[Pixie Geldof]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, English singers, English songwriters, Living people, Models from London, Singers from London, Socialites

Little Pixie Geldof (born 17 September 1990) is a British model and singer-songwriter. She was born in London to Paula Yates. She is the youngest daughter of Bob Geldof and the second youngest of Yates' four daughters. When she was 17 she was on the cover of Tatler magazine. This was the first magazine cover she was on. She has a band called Violet. She is the singer and writes the songs. They released their first single in 2012.

[[Peaches Geldof]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, 2014 deaths, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United Kingdom, English television presenters, Journalists from London, Models from London, People from Kensington and Chelsea (London borough), People from the City of Westminster, Television personalities from Kent, Television personalities from London

Peaches Honeyblossom Geldof (13 March 1989 – 7 April 2014) was a British journalist, television presenter and model.

[[Clipstone]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nottinghamshire

Clipstone is a village near Mansfield, in the county of Nottinghamshire, England. It was built in the early 20th century as a model village for the workers of the nearby colliery.

[[Gillian Flynn]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Screenwriters from Missouri, Living people, Writers from Kansas City, Missouri

Gillian Flynn (born 1971) is an American writer. Her first novel, Sharp Objects, was published in 2006. It is being made into a movie. In 2009 she was fired from her job as a writer for Entertainment Weekly. Dark Places, Flynn's second novel, was published May 2009. It is a mystery novel. In June 2012, Gone Girl was published. It is about a serial killer in Missouri. In 2013, it was nominated for the 2014 Impac Dublin International Literary Award. 

She was born in Kansas City, Missouri. She lives in Ukrainian Village, Chicago with her husband and two children.

[[Highgate School]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in London, 1565 establishments, 1560s establishments in Europe, 16th century establishments in England

Sir Roger Cholmeley's School at Highgate (commonly referred to as Highgate School) is a private school in Highgate in North London, England. It was started as a charity called the Free Grammar School in 1565 by Sir Roger Cholmeley. It is still a charity. It is a member of the Eton Group. Girls and boys aged 3–18 go there. People who were students at the school become a part of the Cholmeleian Society.

[[John Galbraith Graham]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from esophageal cancer, British journalists, British writers, People from Oxford

The Reverend John Galbraith Graham MBE (16 February 1921 – 26 November 2013) was a British crossword maker. He wrote his first crossword for The Guardian in July 1958. From 1970 until he died, he made crosswords for The Guardian under the name "Araucaria". Araucaria is a monkey puzzle tree. In 1984, he made a crossword magazine called 1 Across. He died of oesophagal cancer in 2013. Collections of his crosswords have been published. In 2005 he was made a MBE (Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire).

[[Roger Squires]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, People from Shropshire

Roger Squires (born 22 February 1932) is a British crossword maker. He lives in Shropshire with his wife Anna. He has made more crosswords than anyone else in the world. He makes the Monday crossword for The Telegraph. On 22 February 2012, it was Squires' 80th birthday. The Guardian and Financial Times held a party for him at The Guardian's offices in London. The Telegraph held a lunch party for him in Birmingham. John Galbraith Graham wrote him a sonnet.

[[Neutral Milk Hotel]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 1989, 1998 disestablishments in the United States, Indie rock bands

Neutral Milk Hotel is an American indie rock band. They started in Ruston, Louisiana in 1989. They were formed by singer, songwriter, and guitarist Jeff Mangum. He was the only member at first. Then Robert Schneider joined the band for its first album, On Avery Island. It was released on Merge Records. After On Avery Island was released, Julian Koster, Scott Spillane and Jeremy Barnes joined the band. They then released an album called In the Aeroplane Over the Sea in 1998. Pitchfork scored their second album 10/10 when it was released again in 2005. In 2009, Amazon.com's editors put In the Aeroplane Over the Sea at number two on their list of "The 100 Greatest Indie Rock Albums of All Time".

On December 11, 2011, the band released their first release since 1998. It was an EP called Ferris Wheel on Fire.

[[John Green]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Writers from Indiana, 21st-century American novelists

John Michael Green (born August 24, 1977) is an American writer. He writes young-adult fiction novels. 

[[Auditorio de Tenerife]]

CATEGORIES: Canary Islands, 2003 establishments in Europe, Buildings and structures in Spain, Opera houses

The Auditorio de Tenerife "Adán Martín", better known simply as Auditorio de Tenerife, is a performing arts centre in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain. It includes several performance venues. It was designed by architect Santiago Calatrava.

Building of the centre began in 1997. It was completed in 2003. The auditorium was opened on 26 September of that year. It was opened in the presence of Felipe de Borbón, Prince of Asturias. It was later visited by former U.S. President Bill Clinton. The design of the auditorium has become an architectural symbol of the city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife and the Canary Islands.

[[John C. Pemberton]]

CATEGORIES: 1814 births, 1881 deaths, People from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American military people, Confederate Army generals

John Clifford Pemberton (August 10, 1814 – July 13, 1881), was a career officer in the United States Army. He fought in the Seminole Wars and the Mexican–American War. He was commended (rewarded) for his performance in the Mexican–American War.

He also fought in the American Civil War. He commanded the Confederate army in the Siege of Vicksburg. He surrendered on July 4th, 1863.

[[Grypania]]

CATEGORIES: Proterozoic, Protista, Algae, Fossils

Grypania is an early, tube-shaped fossil from the Proterozoic eon. It is regarded by some as the first known eukaryote. 

Grypania's status as a eukaryote is not absolutely proven. It might have been a giant bacterium or bacterial colony. Its size (over one centimeter) and consistent form, suggest it is a eukaryotic alga. The oldest known Grypania fossils come from an iron mine near Negaunee, Michigan. The fossils were originally dated as 2100 million years ago, but later research showed the date as about 1874 million years ago. Grypania lasted into the Mesoproterozoic era.

[[Celtis]]

CATEGORIES: Cannabaceae, Trees

Celtis is a genus of about 60–70 species of deciduous trees. They are commonly called hackberries. They grow in temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere, in southern Europe, southern and eastern Asia, south to central Africa, southern and central North America, and northern and central South America. 

[[Combat stress reaction]]

CATEGORIES: Conflicts, Mental illnesses

Combat stress reaction is a medical problem that happens to some soldiers because of the trauma of war.  In the past, it was called battle shock, war neurosis, or battle fatigue.  It causes both mental and physical problems.  It is similar to acute stress disorder, and can often become post-traumatic stress disorder.

Combat stress reaction does not affect everyone equally.  Sometimes it causes soldiers to be very unhappy.  Sometimes it causes soldiers severe disability.

The acute (early) stage of combat stress reaction is the best time to keep things from getting worse.  Since World War I, soldiers in early stages of combat stress reaction have usually been treated on the front lines - close to where combat is happening.

[[Hatfield Chase]]

CATEGORIES: History of England, South Yorkshire

Hatfield Chase is a low-lying area in South Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire, England. It was often flooded. Hatfield chase was a royal hunting ground until Charles I tried to have it drained. He hired a Dutch engineer to drain the water in 1626. The engineer's name was Cornelius Vermuyden. He also changed the courses of the rivers Don, Idle and Torne. This included making drainage channels. But the project was not completely successful. More work was done in the 1760s to see to the problem of winter flooding. Modern pumps now work to drain the area. The history of Hatfield chase goes back to the end of Roman Britain.

[[Sport psychology]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology, Sports

Sport psychology means applying parts of psychology to sports and athletes. One of the main ways that sports psychologists use is to help athletes meet their goals. The main group of people that sports psychologists try to help are professional athletes. They can help non-professional athletes as well. Sports psychologists mainly focus on problems the athlete has on the field but they can also help athletes with problems that they have off the field. Sports psychology did not become a recognized area of study until recently, but it has been used in the past.

[[Alexa PenaVega]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Musicians from Florida, 1988 births, Living people

Alexa Ellesse PenaVega (born August 27, 1988) is an American singer, musician and actress. She starred in lots of movies and TV series, among which are Ghost Whisperer, Evening Shade, Twister, The Glimmer Man, Nine Months and the Spy Kids movie series. Vega was born in Miami.

[[NXT Tag Team Championship]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment championships

The NXT Tag Team Championship is a professional wrestling championship in the WWE. The title is a NXT-only championship.

[[Al Plastino]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, American comics writers, American comics artists, Writers from New York City

Al Plastino (December 15, 1921 – November 25, 2013) was an American comic book artist. He was best known as one of the most important Superman artists of the 1950s, along with his DC Comics colleague Wayne Boring. Plastino also worked as a comics writer, editor, letterer and colorist. 

He co-created the DC characters Supergirl and Braniac, as well as the teenage team the Legion of Super-Heroes.

Plastino lived for many years in Shirley, New York, on Long Island. At the time of his death on November 25, 2013, after suffering from prostate cancer, aged 91. 

[[William Atherton]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Connecticut

William Atherton (born William Atherton Knight; July 30, 1947) is an American movie, stage and television actor. He is known for his roles as Richard "Dick" Thornburg in Die Hard and in Die Hard 2 and as Walter Peck in Ghostbusters. 

Atherton was born on July 30, 1947 in Orange, Connecticut. He studied acting at the Drama School at Carnegie Tech and graduated from Carnegie-Mellon University in 1969.

[[Troubadour]]

CATEGORIES: Medieval music

A troubadour was someone who composed and performed Old Occitan lyric poetry during the High Middle Ages.  A female troubadour is usually called a trobairitz.

Troubadour songs were mainly about chivalry and courtly love. Many were humorous or vulgar satires. A Troubadour was considered a profession with great honor.

[[Pope Dionysius]]

CATEGORIES: Popes, Year of birth unknown, 268 deaths, Greek people

Pope Dionysius (??? − 26 December 268) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 22 July 259 until he died on 26 December 268. He was born in Greece.

[[Food group]]

CATEGORIES: Nutrition, Healthy lifestyle

A food group is a collection of foods that have nutritional properties or biological classifications that are almost the same. People have written nutrition guides to put different foods into food groups and recommend daily servings of each group for a healthy diet.

[[Anne Morrow Lindbergh]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 2001 deaths, American aviators, People from Englewood, New Jersey, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from pneumonia, Deaths from stroke, Writers from New Jersey

Anne Morrow Lindbergh (née Anne Spencer Morrow; June 22, 1906spaced ndashFebruary 7, 2001) was an American writer and aviator. She was married to Charles Lindbergh.  She wrote poetry and non-fiction. She wrote about many different things.  Lindbergh's Gift from the Sea was an important feminist book.

[[Taipei Grand Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Taiwan, Taipei

The Taipei Grand Mosque (台北清真寺) is a mosque in Taipei, Taiwan. It is the first and largest mosque in Taiwan. The original building of the mosque was built in 1947.

[[Kaohsiung Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Taiwan, 1992 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Taiwan

The Kaohsiung Mosque (高雄清真寺) is a mosque in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. It is the second mosque to be built in Taiwan.

[[Taipei Cultural Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Taiwan, Taipei

The Taipei Cultural Mosque (台北文化清真寺) is a mosque in Taipei, Taiwan. It is the third mosque in Taiwan.

[[Taichung Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Taiwan, 1951 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Taiwan

The Taichung Mosque (台中清真) is a mosque in Taichung, Taiwan. It is the fourth mosque in Taiwan. The original building of the mosque was built in 1951.

[[Longgang Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Taiwan, 1967 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in Taiwan

The Longgang Mosque or Lungkang Mosque (龍岡清真寺) is a mosque in Taoyuan County, Taiwan. It is the fifth mosque in Taiwan. The original building of the mosque was built in 1967.

[[Victor Hasselblad]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 1978 deaths, People from Gothenburg, Inventors, Photographers

Fritz Victor Hasselblad (8 March 1906 in Gothenburg – 5 August 1978 in Gothenburg) was a Swedish camera designer and photographer. He was the founder and CEO of Victor Hasselblad AB, and the creator of the Hasselblad camera 1948. The U.S. space agency NASA chose the Hasselblad camera to be its official "place camera" and it was later used by astronauts on the moon.

[[Feeling Good]]

CATEGORIES: Jazz music, 1964 songs, Pop songs

"Feeling Good" (or "Feelin' Good") is a jazz ballad. It was first performed, written and released in 1964. It was first done by Nina Simone. The ballad was then performed again and covered by Michael Bublé and Muse, along with others throughout the years. The song has been also sampled in other recording artists' music.

[[God Bless the Child]]

CATEGORIES: 1940s songs, Jazz music

"God Bless the Child" is a popular jazz ballad. It was first written in 1939 though not released until 1942. Billie Holiday sang the first version. Lisa Simpson (voiced by Yeardley Smith), made this ballad more popular in 1990-1991.

[[The Simpsons Sing the Blues]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 albums, Jazz albums, Pop albums, The Simpsons

The Simpsons Sing the Blues is an album of songs sung by the characters from The Simpsons. The songs are not on the television series, except for "Moaning Lisa Blues". The album was released in early December 1990. It included many songs, including "Do the Bartman" and "Deep Deep Trouble". The most notable, however, was Lisa Simpson's version of "God Bless the Child"November 2013 (originally by Billie Holiday). That song was a major hit during early 1991.

[[George Monbiot]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, English journalists, English writers, Living people

George Joshua Richard Monbiot (born 27 January 1963) is an English writer and activist. He writes for The Guardian every week about environment issues. Seven of his books have been published. In 1995, Nelson Mandela gave him a United Nations Global 500 Award. In January 2010 he started a website called ArrestBlair.org. The website offers money to people who are trying to have Tony Blair arrested for crimes against peace.

[[Bat For Lashes]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, English guitarists, Living people, Pakistani entertainers, Singers from London

Natasha Khan (born 25 October 1979) is a British singer-songwriter better known as Bat For Lashes. She is the daughter of Pakistani squash player Rehmat Khan. Her first album, Fur and Gold, was released by The Echo Label on 11 September 2006 in the United Kingdom. It got good reviews. It was nominated for the 2007 Mercury Prize. In 2008 Khan performed at some of the shows in Radiohead's tour. She did a cover of The Cure's song "A Forest". It was put on Perfect as Cats: A Tribute to the Cure. On 3 April 2009 her second album Two Suns was released. It went straight to No.5 in the UK Albums Chart. Like Fur and Gold it was nominated for the Mercury Prize but didn't win. The first single from the album, "Daniel", is her best-selling single so far. It has sold over 46,000 copies around the world. It won Best Contemporary Song at the 2010 Ivor Novello Awards. Khan sang a song with Beck called "Let's Get Lost" for the soundtrack to the 2010 movie The Twilight Saga: Eclipse. Bat For Lashes' third album, The Haunted Man, was released on 11 October 2012. Pitchfork gave it 8.4 out of 10.

In July 2013 Bat For Lashes released a single with Toy called "The Bride".

In 2013 Khan wrote and sung a song with Jon Hopkins called "Garden's Heart". It was released as a single. It is on the soundtrack to the film How I Live Now. Khan directed the music video.

[[Ola Orekunrin]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth missing (living people), Living people, English physicians

Ola Orekunrin (born 1986 / 1987) is a Nigerian-British doctor and entrepreneur. 

[[Julianna Barwick]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Singers from Louisiana

Julianna Barwick is an American singer. She was born in Louisiana. She has released three albums. 

[[Dolmabahçe Palace]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Turkey, Palaces, Ottoman Empire

Dolmabahçe Palace is a palace in the Beşiktaş district of Istanbul, Turkey. It was the main administrative center of the Ottoman Empire from 1856 to 1922. Construction of the palace started in 1843.

[[Siraj ud-Daulah]]

CATEGORIES: 1733 births, 1757 deaths, People of British India, Indian monarchs

Mirza Muhammad Siraj ud-Daulah, more commonly known as Siraj ud-Daulah (1733 – July 2, 1757), was the last independent Nawab of Bengal. The end of his reign marked the start of British East India Company's rule over Bengal and later almost all of South Asia.

[[Exeter College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1314 establishments, 1310s establishments in Europe, 14th century establishments in England

Exeter College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The full name of the college is "The Rector and Scholars of Exeter College at the University of Oxford". It was founded in 1314, making it the fourth oldest college at Oxford. The college was founded by the Bishop of Exeter, Walter de Stapledon.

Exeter first allowed women to enroll in 1979. In 1993, it became the first Oxford college to elect a female Rector, Marilyn Butler.

Famous people who attended Exeter college include authors J.R.R. Tolkien and Phillip Pullman.

[[Green Templeton College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 2008 establishments in the United Kingdom

Green Templeton College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 2008, when Green College and Templeton College merged. It is the newest college at Oxford.

The former Green College was formed in 1979, and was named after one of its largest donors, Cecil H. Green, the founder of Texas Instruments. 

The former Templeton College was originally formed in 1965 as the Oxford Center for Management Studies.  It was renamed Templeton College in 1983 after John Templeton donated a large endowment.  In 1995, Templeton College was granted a charter as a graduate college of the University.

Green Templeton College is a graduate college only. It does not have any undergraduate students.

The college is located at the former Green College campus in North Oxford.  Its most notable building is the Radcliffe Observatory at the center of the campus.

[[Harris Manchester College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1786 establishments in Europe, 1780s establishments in England

Harris Manchester College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. Its formal name is "Manchester Academy and Harris College". It was founded in 1786 as the Manchester Academy in Manchester. The college moved from Manchester to York in 1803. It moved back to Manchester in 1840 and began an association with the University of London. The college moved to London in 1853. In 1889, the college moved to Oxford, and a new campus, designed by Thomas Worthington was completed in 1893.

The college became a full college of the University in 1996. At that time, it changed its name to Harris Manchester College.

Harris Manchester College only admits students who are at least 21 years old.

[[Hank Green]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, People from Missoula, Montana, Businesspeople from Alabama, Businesspeople from Montana, Musicians from Birmingham, Alabama, Musicians from Montana, 21st-century American novelists

William Henry "Hank" Green ll (born May 5, 1980) is an American YouTuber, author, and musician. He is the younger brother of John Green.

[[Kellogg College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1990 establishments in England

Kellogg College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1990 as "Rewley House". It was renamed as Kellogg College in 1994 to honor large financial donations from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. 

Kellogg College only admits graduate students. It does not have any undergraduate students. It was the first college at the University to allow part-time students. 

[[Palace of Fine Arts]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Mexico City, Museums in North America

The Palace of Fine Arts (Palacio de Bellas Artes) is the most important cultural center in Mexico. It is located in the historic center of Mexico City. The building has several murals by Diego Rivera, Siqueiros and others. Exhibitions and theatrical performances take place here, including performances of the Ballet Folklorico de Mexico.

[[Operation Restore Hope]]

CATEGORIES: 1992, 1993, 1990s in Africa, Conflicts, Somalia

The Operation Restore Hope was an operation of the United States and many of its allied countries in Somalia. The operation was protected by the United Nations. The United States was the leader of this operation. Somalia was in civil war and many people were dying from hunger in this country. The goal of this operation was creating suitable conditions and calming down the situation in Somalia for helping the Somali people who needed food in the southern part of this country.

After the killing of several Pakistani peacekeepers, the Security Council ordered the allied forces by the Resolution 837, that they can do anything for sending the humanitarian aid to the Somali people in accordance to Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. This operation was successful.

[[Apollo 8 Genesis reading]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program

On December 24, 1968, the crew of Apollo 8 read from the Book of Genesis on a television broadcast of their mission as they orbited the moon. Bill Anders, Jim Lovell, and Frank Borman read verses 1 through 10, using the Authorized King James Version text. This was the most watched television broadcast at the time of its broadcast.

[[Electric power distribution]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Electric power distribution is the delivery system of electricity to places that use it, such as homes and other buildings. It is done mainly by power lines, transformers, substations and meters. The electricity comes from the power station at high voltage and is delivered at medium to low voltage levels. 

In early days, electricity was distributed as direct current (DC). Alternating current (AC) was later introduced during the War of Currents. DC distribution disappeared because transformers can easily convert AC to high voltage for electric power transmission and low voltage to use at home.

[[Electricity meter]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Measuring tools

An electricity meter (or energy meter) is a device that measures the amount of electricity used by a house or business. Measurements are usually taken in kilowatt hours (kWh).

[[High-voltage direct current]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

[[Ronda Rousey]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Riverside County, California, Martial artists, 1987 births, Living people

Ronda Jean Rousey (born February 1, 1987) is an American mixed martial artist.

[[Alicia Vikander]]

CATEGORIES: Swedish movie actors, 1988 births, Living people, People from Gothenburg

Alicia Vikander (born October 3, 1988) is a Swedish actress. She will play Alice Deane in Seventh Son. She has also been in lots of other movies, such as the 2015 Ex Machina.

Vikander was born in Gothenburg, Sweden.

[[Seventh Son]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 action movies, 2010s fantasy movies, American fantasy movies, American action movies, British action movies, Canadian movies, Chinese movies, Movies directed by Sergei Bodrov

Seventh Son is a 2014 fantasy-action movie directed by Sergei Bodrov. The movie is set during the medieval period. In this movie are Julianne Moore, Alicia Vikander and Jeff Bridges. This movie was released in the United States in February 2015. The studio which distributes Seventh Son is Universal Pictures.

[[Hau Pei-tsun]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Generals, Taiwanese military people, Premiers of the Republic of China on Taiwan

Hau Pei-tsun (郝柏村; 8 August 1919 – 30 March 2020) was the Premier of the Republic of China from May 30, 1990 to February 10, 1993. He was also a 4-star general in that country's army.

He was born on 8 August 1919 in Yancheng, Jiangsu. He studied at the Chinese Military Academy.

In the 1996 elections, he ran for vice-president as an independent. He ran with Lin Yang-kang, who was running for president. His party later collapsed and was expelled from the elections. His party's membership was restored in 2005.

He married Kuo Wan-hua and had two sons and three daughters. One of his sons is politician Hau Lung-pin, the former chairman of the New Party, and current Mayor of Taipei.

Hau died of multiple organ failure on 30 March 2020 in Taipei at the age of 100.

[[Skin effect]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Skin effect is the tendency of an alternating electric current to flow towards the perimeter of a conductor and leave the center part of the conductor without (or barely) any electricity flow. This effect increases as frequency increases.

[[Utility frequency]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Utility frequency, line frequency or mains frequency is the frequency level of the AC electricity used in transmission and distribution from electricity generation sources to customers. The world's two major utility frequencies are 50 Hz (most, but not all, of the Eastern hemisphere) and 60 Hz (most, but not all, of the Western hemisphere).

Many electric railways in Europe use a frequency of 16.7 Hz (one third of 50 Hz). Early electric railways sometimes used 25 Hz (half of 50 Hz). New electric railways usually use the standard mains frequency of 50 Hz. Some lines in the northeast United States still use 25 Hz.

[[Rogelio Guerra]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Deaths from stroke, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors, Aguascalientes

Hildegardo Francisco Guerra Martínez (8 October 1936 in Aguascalientes, Mexico – 28 February 2018 in Mexico City) or Rogelio Guerra, was a Mexican movie actor and television actor. He has also sometimes worked as a voice actor. 

He appeared in over 200 Spanish sitcoms since his career began in 1957. He has also appeared on several international movies as a Spanish-dub actor such as Perry White in Superman Returns.

Guerra was born on 8 October 1936 in Aguascalientes, Mexico. He was married to Maribel Robles. Guerra died in Mexico City of a heart attack while suffering from complications of a stroke he had in 2015. He was 81 years old.

[[Power system harmonics]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Power system harmonics are the harmonic contents from the utility frequency. Harmonics are one kind of distortion to a voltage or current's waveform. This distortion is produced by non-linear devices connected to the power system. Since equipment is made to work at the utility frequency, harmonics can make it work wrong. This is one kind of power quality problem. It increases heating in power equipment.

Harmonics can be eliminated or reduced by using harmonic filter.

[[Eric del Castillo]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican voice actors, Mexican stage actors, Guanajuato (state)

José Eduardo Eric del Castillo Negrete-Galván (born July 22, 1934) is a well-known Mexican actor who appeared in many telenovelas and movies. He appeared in over 200 television or movies related to Mexico or voice dubbing since 1960. He has won several awards throughout his career.

del Castillo was born on July 22, 1934 in Celaya, Guanajuato, Mexico. He is married to Kate Trillo. They have two children. He now lives in Mexico City, Mexico. 

[[New College of Florida]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Florida, 1960s establishments in Florida

New College of Florida is a public liberal arts college in Sarasota, Florida, in the United States. It started as a private college in 1960. In 2001, it became public.

[[Changhua County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Taiwan

Changhua County (彰化縣) is a county in Taiwan. It is the smallest county on the island, though there are smaller counties on some of Taiwan's other islands. The capital is Changhua City.

About 1.3 million people live in this county. It has the second-largest population after Taoyuan City.

[[Chiayi County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Taiwan

Chiayi County (嘉義縣) is a county in Taiwan. It is in the south-west of the island. It surrounds Chiayi City, but does not include it. The seat of the county's government is in Taibao. Chiayi is the sixth largest county in Taiwan. The National Chung Cheng University is in this county.

[[Dušan Dragosavac]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2014 deaths, Yugoslavian people, European politicians

Dušan Dragosavac (Душан Драгосавац; 1 December 1919 – 21 December 2014) was a former Yugoslav politician. He was a Serb from Croatia. He was the Chairman of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia from 20 October 1981 until 20 June 1982.

He died on 21 December 2014, aged 95.

[[Pope Eleuterus]]

CATEGORIES: Popes, Year of birth unknown, 189 deaths, Greek people

Pope Eleuterus (??? − 189) was thirteenth Pope, the official title is the Bishop of Rome of the Catholic Church from c. 174 to his death in 189. He was born in Nicopolis, Epirus, Greece.

According to Liber Pontificalis, they ascribe a decree to Pope Eleutherius that no kind of food should be despised by Christians (Et hoc iterum firmavit ut nulla esca a Christianis repudiaretur, maxime fidelibus, quod Deus creavit, quæ tamen rationalis et humana est).

[[Underground cable]]

CATEGORIES: Infrastructure

An underground cable is a cable that is buried below the ground. They distribute electrical power or telecommunications. Such cables are an alternative to overhead cables, which are several meters above the ground. Overhead cables are often replaced with underground cables. Downtown areas with many tall buildings usually have few or no cables above ground, This is mainly for aesthetic purposes because underground cables can not be seen. They are also less dangerous to people because they are out of the way. They cost more to install, but last longer.

[[Pope Gelasius II]]

CATEGORIES: 1060s births, 1119 deaths, Italian popes

Pope Gelasius II (??? − 29 January 1119) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 24 January 1118 to his death in 29 January 1119. 

He was born in Gaeta, Principality of Capua and died in Cluny, Duchy of Burgundy, Kingdom of France. He was ordained a priest on 9 March 1118 after he fled to Gaeta. He returned to Rome in July under Norman protection after he excommunicated Henry V and the antipope.

[[Hualien County]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Taiwan

Hualien County (花蓮縣) is a county in Taiwan. It is the largest county in Taiwan in terms of area. It is located on the mountainous eastern coast.

It contains the Port of Hualien. It is famous for tourism.

[[Kinmen]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Taiwan, Islands of Taiwan

Kinmen (or Quemoy) is a small group of islands close to the coast of China. It is governed by the Republic of China (Taiwan). It forms a county, Kinmen County (金門縣), of Fujian Province. The capital is Jincheng Township.

The county is claimed by the People's Republic of China (PRC) as part of its own Fujian Province. It is very close to Xiamen, no more than 2 kilometres.

[[Matsu Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Taiwan, Islands of Taiwan

The Matsu Islands (馬祖列島) are a small group of islands in the Taiwan Strait. There are 19 islands.

They are governed as a county of the Republic of China (ROC), Lienchiang County (連江縣). This county is part of Fujian Province. It is the smallest county in the ROC.

[[Cross-Strait relations]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of the People's Republic of China, Politics of Taiwan

Cross-strait relations (海峡两岸关系) is the relations between the governments of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and the Republic of China (ROC). Neither government recognises one another. Both officially use the One-China policy. Under this policy, there is only one legitimate government of China. Both the PRC and the ROC claim to be that government.

Cross-strait relations are not international relations, where matters are handled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is because both governments claim that each other's territory is part of their country. However, the relations are not purely domestic relations either.

Any interaction by the PRC's government with Taiwan is done by the Association of Relations Across the Taiwan Strait (ARATS). This is under the Taiwan Affairs Office of the PRC. Any interaction by the ROC's government with Mainland China is done by Strait Exchange Foundation (SEF) under the Mainland Affairs Council of the ROC.

[[Tainan Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Taiwan, Taipei

The Tainan Mosque (台南清真寺) is a mosque in Tainan, Taiwan. It is the sixth mosque in Taiwan, and the first and only mosque in Tainan. The mosque was built in 1996.

[[At-Taqwa Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Taiwan, 2013 establishments in Asia, 21st century establishments in Taiwan

The At-Taqwa Mosque (大園清真寺) is a mosque in Dayuan Township, Taoyuan County, Taiwan. It is the seventh and latest mosque in Taiwan. The mosque was built in 2013.

[[Jamia Mosque]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Hong Kong, Religion in China

The Jamia Mosque or Shelley Street Mosque (些利街清真寺) is a mosque in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. It is the first and oldest mosque in Hong Kong.

[[Kowloon Mosque and Islamic Centre]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Hong Kong, Religion in China

The Kowloon Mosque and Islamic Centre (九龍清真寺暨伊斯蘭中心) is a mosque and Islamic center in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. It is the largest mosque and second mosque to be built in Hong Kong.

[[Ammar Mosque and Osman Ramju Sadick Islamic Centre]]

CATEGORIES: Mosques in Hong Kong, Religion in China

The Ammar Mosque and Osman Ramju Sadick Islamic Centre (愛群清真寺林士德伊斯蘭中心) or Wan Chai Mosque is a mosque and Islamic center in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China. It is the third mosque in Hong Kong. The original building of the mosque was built in 1967.

[[Atoms for Peace (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in California, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Musical groups from Los Angeles, California, Musical quintets, Musical groups established in 2009

Atoms for Peace is a band from California. They started in 2009. They did not have a name until February 2010. The members are Thom Yorke, Flea, Nigel Godrich, Joey Waronker, and Mauro Refosco. In February 2013, they released their first album, Amok on XL Recordings. The album charted at number 1 in nine countries. Pitchfork scored it 6.9/10.

[[Coal mining]]

CATEGORIES: Coal mining

Coal mining is the process of getting coal out of the ground. It is part of the mining industry. Coal is used as a resource for making electricity.

[[Mustafa Abdul Jalil]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Heads of state of Libya

Mustafa Abdul Jalil (born 1952) is a Libyan politician. He was the Chairman (leader) of the National Transitional Council from 5 March 2011 until it ended on 8 August 2012. He supported the Libyan revolution. He was born in Badya. He is a Sunni Muslim.

[[PJ Harvey]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, English rock guitarists, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Dorset

Polly Jean Harvey MBE (born 9 October 1969) is an English musician. She is best known for being a singer and guitarist. Her music is usually released under the name PJ Harvey. She plays lots of instruments as well as the guitar. These include piano, organ, bass, saxophone, harmonica, and most recently, the autoharp. She has a contralto singing range. In June 2013, she made a Member of the Order of the British Empire for her music.

[[Mallika Sherawat]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Indian movie actors, Living people

Mallika Sherawat (born October 24, 1976 as Reema Lamba) is an Indian actress. She was born in Rohtak to a Jat family. The first movie she acted in was the 2002 Bollywood movie Jeena Sirf Merre Liye. She acted in the 2005 Chinese movie The Myth. In 2010, Hisss was released. It was her first English movie. Sherawat played the main character, Naagin. In 2011, she was in another English movie, The Politics of Love.

[[Yeah Yeah Yeahs]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 establishments in the United States, 2000s American music groups, 2000s establishments in New York (state), 2010s American music groups, American rock bands, Indie rock bands, Musical groups established in 2000, Musical groups from New York City, Musical trios

Yeah Yeah Yeahs is an indie rock band from New York City. They are two boys, Nick Zinner and Brian Chase, and one girl, Karen O. Karen O is the singer. They started in the world of music in 2000. In 2009 a second guitarist, David Pajo, joined the band and replaced Imad Wasif. They have four albums, which are: Fever to Tell, the first, Show Your Bones, the second, It's Blitz!, the third, and the fourth, Mosquito. They play different genres of music: alternative rock, indie rock, art punk, dance punk and post punk revival. They were nominated to the Grammy Awards on 3 occasions: Fever to tell, Show your bones and It’s blitz!. And they have had 7 nominations to the MTV Awards for three of their works: Maps in 2004, Heads will roll in 2009 and Sacrilege in 2013.

[[Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1878 establishments in England

Lady Margaret Hall is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was established in 1878 as the first women's college at the University. It first admitted male students in 1979.

[[Bonfire Night]]

CATEGORIES: Festivals, British culture

Bonfire Night is an event dedicated to celebration with bonfires or fireworks. Different traditions celebrate Bonfire Night on different days. In Great Britain, it is celebrated as Guy Fawkes Night on 5th November. Other versions of Bonfire Night are also celebrated on this date in several other Commonwealth countries. A similar bonfire tradition is celebrated in parts of Scandinavia and is known as Walpurgis Night.

[[Collateral (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 movies, 2000s crime drama movies, 2000s crime thriller movies, American crime drama movies, American crime thriller movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies directed by Michael Mann

Collateral is a 2004 American crime thriller movie. This movie is set in Los Angeles. It is about a hit-man named Vincent who is out to murder several witnesses and a prosecutor. His main hostage, taxi driver Max, reluctantly agrees to do some harsh things along with him. Max, though, eventually has enough. He then shoots Vincent, killing him. Jamie Foxx plays Max and Tom Cruise plays Vincent. The movie was released in late August 2004. It became a success in the U.S. box office and worldwide. The reviews were excellent.

== Other websites == 

[[Passenger name record]]

CATEGORIES: Transport, Databases

Passenger name record is the name for a set of data in a database, which contains the path a passenger travelling with one or more airlines takes. In some cases, groups of people travelling together are stored in the same passenger name record. Passenger details often contain more information than that which is strictly necessary. Additional information stored includes the gender of the passenger, if the passenger is part of a frequent flyer programme, details about the ticket, or if the passenger has special meal requirements - for example vegetarian.

[[David Karp]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, American chief executives, Living people, Businesspeople from New York City, American Jews

David Karp (born July 6, 1986) is an American entrepreneur who started the website Tumblr in 2007. He sold the website to Yahoo! for US$1.1 billion in 2013.  He was born in New York City. He started learning HTML when he was 11. When he was 15 he stopped going to high school. He was taught at home instead. In 2013, Forbes said that Karp's net worth is more than $200 million. His cultural and ethnic background is Jewish.

[[Kwame Kilpatrick]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, African American politicians, American fraudsters, American prisoners, Criminals from Michigan, Mayors of Detroit, US Democratic Party politicians

Kwame Malik Kilpatrick (born June 8, 1970) is an American politician. He was a Michigan state representative and mayor of Detroit. He is a Democrat. Kilpatrick was mayor of Detroit from 2002 until he resigned in 2008. In spring 2013, Kilpatrick was sentenced to almost 28 years in prison after being declared guilty on many criminal charges, including fraud. He went to federal prison in eastern Michigan.

[[John of Damascus]]

CATEGORIES: 670s births, 749 deaths, Arab people, Christian saints, Christian theologians, People from Damascus, Syrian Christians

Saint John of Damascus (c. 675 or 676 – 4 December 749) was a Christian leader from Damascus. He was a monk and a priest (a Christian preacher). He was born and raised in Damascus, which is today the capital of the country of Syria. He died in the Jerusalem in Palestine, at the Mar Saba monastery.

John of Damascus studied religion. He also studied law, theology, philosophy and music. He is said by some sources to have served as a Chief Administrator to the Muslim caliph of Damascus before he became a priest. He wrote works about Christianity. He composed hymns that are still used by Greek Orthodox churches around the world. He is considered "the last of the Fathers" of the Eastern Orthodox church. He is best known for arguing to let people use pictures of Greek Orthodox saints, which are called "icons". He is also honored by Catholic churches, specifically the Roman Catholic Church.

[[Pope Leo IV]]

CATEGORIES: 790 births, 855 deaths, Italian popes, People from Rome

Pope Saint Leo IV (790 – 17 July 855) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 10 April 847 until he died in 855. 

He was born in Rome. He died in Rome on 17 July 855 and was buried in St. Peter's Basilica. There was a medieval tradition that had claimed that a woman, Pope Joan, had succeeded him by disguising herself as a man but she is believed to be fictitious.

[[Rosamund Pike]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Actors from London, Actors who played Bond villains, Actresses who played Bond girls, English movie actors

Rosamund Pike (born 27 January 1979) is an English actress. She became known in the 2002 movie Die Another Day in which she played the Bond girl and double agent Miranda Frost. She also played Helen in the 2012 melodrama movie Jack Reacher. Pike was born in London.

[[Pope John XV]]

CATEGORIES: 996 deaths, Italian popes, Year of birth unknown, People from Rome

Pope John XV (??? − March 996) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from August 985 to his death in 996. 

He was born in Rome, Papal States and died in March 996 in Rome, Papal States, Holy Roman Empire.

During his time as pope, there was a dispute that arose over the deposition in 991 of Arnulf, Archbishop of Reims. Arnulf was made archbishop of Reims in 988 by Hugh Capet of France. Arnulf was the nephew of the King's bitter rival, Charles of Lorraine and considered Arnulf a turncoat. He demanded his deposition by John XV. Hugh Capet captured both Charles and Archbishop Arnulf and convoked a synod at Reims in June 991. He deposed Arnulf and chose as his successor Abbot Gerbert of Aurillac who would later be known as Pope Silvester II.

At the synod, Arnulf, Bishop of Orléans accused John XV:

[[Die Another Day]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 movies, 2000s action thriller movies, 2000s spy movies, James Bond movies, American action thriller movies, British thriller movies, Movies directed by Lee Tamahori, Movies set in South Korea, Movies set in North Korea, Movies set in London

Die Another Day is a 2002 British action thriller spy movie directed by the movie director Lee Tamahori. It is about James Bond going across North Korea trying to get redemption. Pierce Brosnan plays James Bond, Halle Berry plays Bond's ally agent Jinx, and Rosamund Pike plays the double agent Miranda Frost. The movie got negative reviews. The box office of the movie, however, was positive. The movie was released in November 2002.

[[Black Friday]]

CATEGORIES: Days

Black Friday is the day after Thanksgiving in the United States. Even though it falls on a Friday, which is the last day before the weekend, and comes right after Thanksgiving Thursday, it is not a federal holiday. There are some states, however, that observe this day instead of Columbus Day for workers of the state government.

The name "Black Friday" started to be used sometime after World War II, but it was not popular outside of Philadelphia until around 1975

[[Lions in heraldry]]

CATEGORIES: Heraldry

Lions appear in heraldry more often than any other animal. It traditionally symbolises bravery, valour, strength, and royalty.

They may appear as a charge on the shield or as a crest.  They are described in the blazon (heraldic description) by their tincture (color) and attitude (position).  Sometimes the teeth and claws of a lion can be colored differently from the rest of its body; it is said to be "armed" of that color (e.g. "A lion Or armed gules" is a gold lion with red teeth and claws).  Sometimes the tail is even described, if it is shown in an unusual way.  One reason why lions are shown in so many different ways is because when heraldry developed, a lot of people wanted a lion on their coat of arms, but no two coats of arms can be the same. The purpose of heraldry in the Middle Ages was to identify people with bold images over the outside of their armour.  Since a lot of people started putting lions on their coats of arms, they placed them in a lot of different positions and in every color used in heraldry.  In France and Germany, they even made patterns of colors on some of their lions, as if they were painted.

French heralds refer to lions in the walking positions as leopards, but this term is seldom used by British heralds.

[[Monkwearmouth–Jarrow Abbey]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, Tyne and Wear, Churches in England, 674 establishments, 1540 disestablishments, Establishments in England, Disestablishments in England

Monkwearmouth–Jarrow was a combination of two English monasteries run as a single community. Both were founded by Benedict Biscop. Monkwearmouth, built first, was a magnificent example of the Roman style of architecture. It housed one of the first stained glass works in England. Jarrow became the center of Anglo-Saxon learning in the north of England and contained the largest  library in Anglo-Saxon England. Bede, the great Anglo-Saxon scholar, studied, taught and wrote there. The sister Anglo-Saxon monasteries were the UK nomination for World Heritage Site status in 2011.

[[Wrecking Ball (Miley Cyrus song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 songs, Miley Cyrus songs

"Wrecking Ball" is a song performed by Miley Cyrus. It was released on August 25, 2013. "Wrecking Ball" is a pop song which is about the ending of a relationship. It was thought to be inspired by Cyrus' former engagement to Australian actor Liam Hemsworth. "Wrecking Ball" was the Vevo record with most views in the first 24 hours after its release, and the record for being the fastest clip to reach 100 million views on the service. The record was broken in 2014 by Anaconda of Nicki Minaj.

[[Troublemaker (Olly Murs song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 songs, Pop songs, Soul music

"Troublemaker" is a song by Olly Murs. He also wrote the song. It was released on October 12, 2012. The song features Flo Rida. "Troublemaker" was a major commercial success. It was a success across the United Kingdom and the United States. It also served as the closing song at Murs's 2013 arena tour.

[[Green Acres]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 television series debuts, 1971 disestablishments in the United States, 1960s American television series, 1970s American television series, American sitcoms, Television series set in New York City, CBS network shows, English-language television programs

Green Acres is an American sitcom that was produced by Filmways and released by Orion Pictures (now Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer). Green Acres stars Eddie Albert and Eva Gabor as a couple who move from New York City to a rural country farm in the fictional community of Hooterville. The show also had supporting roles by Tom Lester, Frank Cady, Pat Buttram, Alvy Moore, Hank Patterson, Barbara Pepper, and several others. Green Acres is a sister show to Petticoat Junction which also takes place in Hooterville.

Green Acres was created by Jay Sommers who was also a writer and executive producer for Petticoat Junction. The idea of Green Acres came from a radio show which Sommers directed and produced. The series was first broadcast on CBS on September 15, 1965, and was canceled on April 27, 1971. During its run, Green Acres had six seasons with a total of 170 episodes.

[[Hal Linden]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American television directors, Jewish American actors, Actors from New York City, Musicians from New York City, Emmy Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors

Hal Linden (born Harold Lipshitz; March 20, 1931 in New York City, New York) is an American stage and screen actor, television director and musician. Linden is known for his role as Cpt. Barney Miller in Barney Miller. He won two special Daytime Emmy Awards and a Tony Award. Linden is the spokesman for the Jewish National Fund, a position he has held since 1997.

[[Ted Kaczynski]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, American activists, American anarchists, American atheists, American mathematicians, American prisoners, American serial killers, American terrorists, Criminals from Chicago, People from Evergreen Park, Illinois

Theodore John "Ted" Kaczynski (born May 22, 1942 in Evergreen Park, Illinois) is an American mathematician who was known as the Unabomber. Between 1978 and 1995, Kaczynski engaged in a nationwide bombing campaign against people involved with modern technology, planting or mailing numerous home-made bombs, ultimately killing a total of three people and injuring 23 others.

Kaczynski was born and raised in Evergreen Park, Illinois, a Chicago suburb. Kaczynski was accepted to Harvard University at the age of 16. He earned an undergraduate degree. He then earned a PhD in mathematics from the University of Michigan. He became an assistant professor at the University of California, Berkeley in 1967 at age 25. He resigned two years later.

In 1971, he moved to a cabin without electricity or running water, in Lincoln, Montana. He lived there while learning survival skills. From 1978 to 1995, Kaczynski sent 16 bombs to targets including universities and airlines, killing three people and injuring 23. 

Kaczynski sent a letter to The New York Times on April 24, 1995. He promised "to desist from terrorism" if the Times or the Washington Post published his stories about his killing spree.

Kaczynski was arrested in his cabin on April 3, 1996. His brother, David, called the police so that they could arrest him. He pleaded guilty for his crimes on January 22, 1998. He is an inmate of ADX Florence, Fremont County, Colorado.

[[Opposing Viewpoints series]]

CATEGORIES: Series of books, 2000s books

Opposing Viewpoints is a series of books on current events. It tries to explore the many different opinions of each event in the style of a debate. The series tries to encourage critical thinking and public awareness by providing opposing views on issues that have been debated.

[[Evergreen Park, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois

Evergreen Park is a village in Cook County, Illinois, United States. It is a suburb of Chicago. The population was 19,852 at the 2010 census. Serial killer Theodore Kaczynski was born here in 1942 and Playboy model Jenny McCarthy was also born here in 1972.

[[Price Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Frank Lloyd Wright buildings, Buildings and structures in Oklahoma, 1956 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Oklahoma

The Price Tower is a nineteen-story, 221-foot-high tower in Bartlesville, Oklahoma. It was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. It is the only well-known skyscraper by Wright, and is one of only two vertically buildings designed by Wright. The Price Tower was commissioned by Harold C. Price of the H. C. Price Company, a local oil pipeline and chemical firm. It opened to the public in February 1956.

[[Imperial Hotel, Tokyo]]

CATEGORIES: Frank Lloyd Wright buildings, Buildings and structures in Tokyo, 1880s establishments in Japan

The Imperial Hotel, Tokyo is a hotel in Tokyo. It was built in the late 1880s at the request of the Japanese aristocracy to increase Western visitors to Japan. It was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. The hotel site is located just south of the Imperial Palace grounds, next to the previous location of the Palace moat. 

The modern hotel overlooks the Palace, the 40 western-style Hibiya Park, and the Ginza neighborhood. Three buildings have stood on the hotel site, each of which embodied the finest western design of its era. The hotel eventually slipped into decay as time took its toll. In a controversial decision, it was decided to demolish the old hotel and replace it with a high-rise structure, to maximize the use of land.

[[Yury Yakovlev]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Moscow, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Russia, Deaths from heart failure, Disease-related deaths in Moscow, Russian movie actors, Soviet movie actors, Soviet television actors, Russian stage actors, Recipients of the Order of Lenin

Yury Vasilyevich Yakovlev (25 April 1928 – 30 November 2013) was a Russian movie and stage actor. Yakovlev appeared in over 100 Russian-language movies.

His most popular movies include; The Irony of Fate, Anna Karenina, Ivan Vasilievich: Back to the Future, and in Hussar Ballad. He has won many awards throughout his career including Russia's highest civilian honor the Order of Lenin.

Yakovlev was born on 25 April 1928 in Moscow, Soviet Union. He studied at the Vakhtangov Theatre. Yakovlev was married three times. He had one son, Anton. Yakovlev now lived in Moscow, Russia.

Yakovlev felt ill in early morning of 29 November 2013. He soon fainted in his home. He was rushed to a Moscow hospital where he died there on 30 November 2013 from heart failure, aged 85.

[[Arnold Peralta]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 deaths, 1989 births, 2012 Summer Olympics, Honduran footballers, Murdered sportspeople, Murders by firearm

Arnold Peralta (29 March 1989 – 10 December 2015) was a Honduran football player. He played as a defensive midfielder for C.D.S. Vida, Rangers F.C. and Olimpia. He also played for the Honduras national football team. He represented Honduras in seven FIFA World Cup qualification games.

Peralta was shot dead sixteen times by an unknown gunman on 10 December 2015 in his hometown of La Ceiba, aged 26.

[[Fujian Province, Republic of China]]

CATEGORIES: Subdivisions of Taiwan, Provinces

Fujian Province or Fukien Province (福建省) is a province of the Republic of China. The capital of the province is Jincheng Township in Kinmen County.

[[Palais Royal]]

CATEGORIES: Palaces in France, Buildings and structures in Paris, 1630s establishments in Europe, 17th century establishments in France

The Palais Royal is a building in Paris. It was once a palace of the French royal family. It was built in the 1630s by Cardinal Richelieu to hold his art collection. When Richelieu died in 1642, it became the property of the young King Louis XIV. It was successively the property of the Dukes of Orléans and later Marie Antoinette before being destroyed in 1870 during the Franco-Prussian War. 

From 1649, the exiled Henrietta Maria of France and her daughter Princess Henrietta lived here. The two had escaped England during the English Civil War. They were sheltered here by King Louis XIV, who was Henrietta Maria's nephew.

In 1692, when the Duke of Chartres (future Regent of France) married Françoise Marie de Bourbon, the King gave the Palais Royal to his brother, Philippe of France, Duke of Orléans, "Monsieur".

Louis Philippe I, future King of the French, was born here. He was the son of the young Philippe Égalité and his wife Louise Marie Adélaïde de Bourbon.

Louise Henriette de Bourbon also died here. She was married to Louis Philippe, Duke of Orléans. The future Louis Philippe I was also born here.

[[Julia Serano]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American feminists, American LGBT people, American LGBT rights activists, American political activists, Bisexual people, LGBT feminists, LGBT musicians, LGBT writers, Transgender and transsexual people

Julia Serano (born 1967 as Thomas L. Serano) is a transsexual American writer, biologist, musician, poet, and activist. She lives in Oakland, California. In 2007 her first full-length book Whipping Girl: A Transsexual Woman on Sexism and the Scapegoating of Femininity was published by Seal Press. In October 2013 Excluded: Making Feminist and Queer Movements More Inclusive'' was published. Her essays have also been published on websites and in magazines and books about feminism.

Serano did a PhD in biochemistry and molecular biophysics at Columbia University. Serano worked at UC Berkeley as a researcher for seventeen years.

She was a member of the indie rock band Bitesize.

[[Judith Butler]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, 20th century philosophers, 21st century philosophers, American feminists, American philosophers, Jewish American LGBT people, Jewish American writers, Jewish feminists, Lesbian feminists, Lesbian Jews, LGBT writers, LGBT people from Ohio, Writers from Ohio

Judith Butler (born February 24, 1956) is an American philosopher. She was born in Ohio. She got her PhD in philosophy from Yale University in 1984. She lives in Berkeley, California, with her partner Wendy Brown. In 1990 her book Gender Trouble was published by Routledge. It is considered an important work in modern feminism. In the book Butler talks about her theory of gender performativity, which is that gender, along with sex and sexuality, is something you "perform" rather than an expression of human biology. In other politics, she has supported Palestine and the Democratic Party, including Hillary Clinton and Kamala Harris.

[[Melissa Harris-Perry]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, African American writers, Living people, American television presenters

Melissa Victoria Harris-Perry (born October 2, 1973) is an American television host and writer. She hosts a television programme on MSNBC called Melissa Harris-Perry. 

[[Enrico Letta]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Italian politicians, People from Pisa, Politicians from Tuscany, Prime Ministers of Italy

Enrico Letta (born 20 August 1966) was the Prime Minister of Italy (head of government) from 2013 to 2014. Previously, he had also been a member of several Italian governments, as of 1998. In April 2015 he announced that he was not going to be a professional politician anymore, and that he wanted to concentrate on academia.

He was born in Pisa, Tuscany. He is married to Gianna Fregonara and has 3 children.

[[Chancellor, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Dakota, 1890s establishments in South Dakota

Chancellor is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 264 people lived there at the 2010 census. Chancellor was started in 1886.

[[Prime Minister of Italy]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Italy

The prime minister of Italy, officially President of the Council of Ministers, is the head of government of Italy. Giuseppe Conte became Prime Minister on 1 June 2018. The one before him was Paolo Gentiloni.

[[Davis, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Dakota, 1896 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in South Dakota

Davis is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 85 people lived there at the 2010 census. Davis became a town in 1896.

[[Dolton, South Dakota]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Dakota, 1909 establishments in South Dakota

Dolton is a town in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is located in Turner County, and 37 people lived there at the 2010 census. Dolton became a town in 1909.

[[Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in the United States, Buildings and structures in Detroit, Michigan

Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport DTW, is a major airport in the United States. It is in the Detroit area and serves all the city. It is one of the busiest airports in the United States and gets many passengers. It has many international and domestic destinations. It is one of Delta Airlines biggest airport hubs after Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta. It is also a hub of Spirit Airlines. Its many destinations include cities in North America, South America, Europe, and Asia.

[[Helipad]]

CATEGORIES: Helicopters, Aviation infrastructure

A helicopter landing pad (helipad) is a landing area for helicopters, like a runway for an airplane.

[[Korean Air]]

CATEGORIES: Airlines of Asia, 1946 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in South Korea

Korean Air is the flag carrier and largest airline of South Korea. Its headquarters are in Seoul. It has two hubs at both airports in Seoul, the major international airport Incheon International Airport and the smaller domestic airport Seoul Gimpo. Korean Air has planes from both Boeing and Airbus, including the Boeing 747 and Airbus 380. These fly to destinations all over the world, including places in Asia, Africa, Europe, South America, and North America.

[[Titanic II]]

CATEGORIES: Movies based on real life events, Disaster movies, 2010 drama movies, American drama movies, RMS Titanic

Titanic II is a disaster-drama movie from 2010. It is not a sequel to the movie from 1997. Certain movie websites, however, say this movie may be a mock of the 1997 hit movie. The movie Titanic II is about the SS Titanic II luxury liner sent on a maiden voyage exactly 100 years after the original RMS Titanic, except the Titanic II is operating in reverse opposite the original ship. The more recent ship exits New York City and heads to United Kingdom at Southampton. Like the earlier ship, however, she crashes into an iceberg killing most of the ship's passengers and crew. Only a handful of people survive. Titanic II was condemned by many critics as a rip-off of James Cameron's 1997 movie. The criticisms involved mostly plot and movie directions.

[[Brooke Burns]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Texas, 1970s births, Living people

Brooke Burns (born March 16, 1978, though some sources cite 1977) is an American actress, fashion model and television personality She acts mostly in movies which are direct to video and in certain television programs. She starred as Jennifer Cullen in the television movie The Most Wonderful Time of the Year in 2008. Burns was born in Dallas, Texas.

[[Linacre College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1962 establishments in England

Linacre College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1962, and was the third graduate-only college at the University. It was the first graduate college founded at Oxford to admit both male and female students. 

[[Botanical name]]

CATEGORIES: Plant taxonomy

A botanical name is a formal scientific name which follows the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants (ICN). If it concerns a plant cultigen, the additional cultivar term must follow the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants. 

The code of nomenclature covers "all organisms traditionally treated as plants, whether fossil or non-fossil, e.g. blue-green algae (Cyanobacteria); fungi, including chytrids, oomycetes, and slime moulds; photosynthetic protists and taxonomically related non-photosynthetic groups".

The purpose of a formal name is to have a single name which is accepted and used worldwide for a particular plant or plant group. For example, the botanical name Bellis perennis was given to a plant species which is native to most of the countries of Europe and the Middle East, where it has various names in many languages. Later it has been introduced worldwide, bringing it into contact with more languages.

Some English names for this plant species are: daisy, English daisy, lawndaisy. In other languages, some examples are: pâquerette, vellorita, tusensköna, Gänseblümchen, Maßliebchen.

The cultivar Bellis perennis 'Aucubifolia' is a golden-variegated horticultural selection of this species. 

[[Jean Kent]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Accidental deaths in the United Kingdom, Actors from London, English movie actors, English stage actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Jean Kent (Joan Mildred Summerfield; 29 June 1921 – 30 November 2013) was a British movie and television actress. She was also known as Jean Carr. She was born in Brixton, London. Kent was known for her role as Mille Harris in The Browning Version.

Kent died in Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk on 30 November 2013, aged 92. She died following a fall a few  days earlier at her home in Westhorpe, Suffolk.

[[House of Orléans]]

CATEGORIES: House of Orléans

The House of Orléans was a French noble and royal family. It descends from Louis XIV of France and his only brother Philippe, Duke of Orléans. The families main traditional home was the Palais Royal in Paris. The family later became very powerful during the reign of Louis Philippe I. He ruled France under the title King of the French. The king successfully married his children into other royal families of Europe.

The present head of the house is Prince Henri of Orléans. He is known as the Count of Paris.  He also claims the title King of the French, but is known simply as His Royal Highness The Count of Paris and sometimes the Duke of France. However, the titles are not officially recognised because France is no longer a monarchy. Henri has been a claimant to the throne since 1999. The Count was married to Duchess Marie Thérèse of Württemberg. She is herself a daughter of a one-time claimant to the throne of Württemberg.

[[Vicente Aleixandre]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1984 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, Disease-related deaths in Madrid, LGBT Nobel Prize winners, LGBT poets, People from Seville, Spanish LGBT people, Spanish Nobel Prize winners, Spanish poets

Vicente Pío Marcelino Cirilo Aleixandre y Merlo (April 26, 1898 – December 14, 1984) was a Spanish poet. He was born in Seville. Aleixandre won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1977. He was part of the Generation of '27. He died in Madrid from tuberculosis in 1984.

[[Airline alliance]]

CATEGORIES: Airline alliances

An airline alliance is when two or more airlines make an agreement to work with each other. The three largest airline alliances are Star Alliance, SkyTeam, and Oneworld. Airline alliances make it easier for passengers to travel around the world, reducing their stops or connections. The biggest alliance is Star Alliance, which has 28 member airlines such as United, Lufthansa, and Air Canada. The second biggest is SkyTeam, which has 19 members including Delta, KLM, and Air France. The third biggest alliance is Oneworld, which has 13 members including American Airlines, British Airways, and Qantas.

[[Star Alliance]]

CATEGORIES: Star Alliance, 1997 establishments in Germany

Star Alliance is the world's first and largest airline alliance. Its headquarters are in Frankfurt, Hesse, Germany. It was founded in 1999 by five airlines: Scandinavian Airlines, Thai Airways International, Air Canada, Lufthansa, and United Airlines. Varig Brazilian Airlines was the first airline to join, in 1997.  In 2013, the alliance now has 28 member airlines with more than 21,100 daily departures combined. These flights fly to 1,329 airports in more than 150 countries, carrying 678.7 million passengers.

[[Grand Prairie, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, Settlements in Dallas County, Texas, Settlements in Tarrant County, Texas

Grand Prairie is a city in Dallas County, Tarrant County, Ellis County in the state of Texas. It is a rather big city with a population of 175,336 people in 2010. Grand Prairie is part of a bigger region known as the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex made up of Dallas and Fort Worth and their suburbs or cities outside of them.

[[Dallas County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Dallas County, Texas

Dallas County is a county in the U.S. state of Texas. In 2010, the population was 2,368,139. 

The head of the county and biggest city is Dallas. It is the second most populated county in Texas after Harris County. It is the ninth most populated in the whole United States.

[[People's Liberation Army]]

CATEGORIES: Military of China, 1927 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in China

The People's Liberation Army (or simply PLA) is the armed forces of the Communist Party of China. The army was established (founded) on August 1, 1927. The People's Liberation Army is the largest military force in the world. It has about 2,250,000 personnel or employees (about 0.18% of the population of China) under the Central Military Commission.

The PLA consists of five main branches: the PLA Ground Force, PLA Navy (PLAN), PLA Air Force (PLAAF), Second Artillery Corps (strategic missile force), and the PLA Reserve Force. Military service is compulsory (required) of for all men and women who reach the age of 18.

[[Taiwan Province, People's Republic of China]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of China

Taiwan  (台湾) is the claimed province by the People's Republic of China (PRC) government to be part of PRC, although officially it is currently under the control of the Republic of China (ROC) government. The recognized capital of the country is Taipei City.

[[Quake]]

Quake usually means an earthquake, a shaking of the earth's surface.

Quake can also mean:

[[No Ordinary Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 songs, 1990s ballads, Soul ballads

"No Ordinary Love" is a 1992 ballad. It is from the album Love Deluxe by singer Sade. It was in the 1993 movie Indecent Proposal. The song hit #26 in Ireland, United Kingdom and Scotland. In June 1993, the song became a hit across the world. Sade won a Grammy Award for this ballad in early 1994. The full ballad is seven minutes and 21 seconds in length. The single edit is five minutes and 22 seconds.

[[Paul Walker]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Glendale, California, American movie actors, American television actors, American philanthropists, Road accident deaths in California

Paul William Walker IV (September 12, 1973 – November 30, 2013) was an American actor and philanthropist. He is best known for portraying Brian O'Conner in The Fast and the Furious film series. The first movie that he acted in was Monster in the Closet where he portrayed "Professor" Bennett. Before he died, he appeared on the National Geographic Channel series Expedition Great White.

Walker died in a car crash on 30 November 2013 at the age of 40.

[[Number of the Beast]]

CATEGORIES: Phobias, Superstitions, New Testament, Christian eschatology

The number of the Beast (from hexakósioi hexēkonta héx) is the fear of the number 666. It comes from the Biblical verse Revelation 13:18, which says that the number 666 is the number of the beast, associated with Satan or the Antichrist.

A well-known example of this fear is Nancy and Ronald Reagan, who, in 1989, when moving to their home in Bel-Air, Los Angeles, had its address changed from 666 St. Cloud Road to 668 St. Cloud Road. Another well-known example was the U.S. Route 666, where accidents and incidents were common. It is known as "Devil's Highway" and renamed to U.S. Route 491.

[[British hip hop]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop, British music

British hip hop (also British rap) is a genre of music. The style happens across Ireland, Northern Ireland, Scotland, Wales and England. British rap music was officially observed from the 1980s-afterward, though it might have begun far earlier. Among UK rap artists who moved to the United States at young ages are Slick Rick and Young MC (aka Marvin Young).

[[American Colony, Jerusalem]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem, History of Palestine

The American Colony in Jerusalem was a colony in Jerusalem, Israel. It was established by an American and Swedish Christian utopian group in 1881. During the British Mandate of Palestine, the colony was occupied by Jordan until the Six-Day War in 1967. 

The cemetery of the colony is located in the National Garden of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in Mount Scopus.

[[Russian Compound]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem, History of Israel, 19th-century establishments

The Russian Compound in Jerusalem is an old district in central Jerusalem. It began as a Russian colony in the 19th century. It is centred around a large Russian Orthodox church. The main square in the Russian Compound is Moscow Square.

[[Maumee, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio

Maumee is a city in northwest Ohio. It is close to Toledo. At the 2010 census, almost 14,300 people lived there. The name of the city is pronounced "mommy". The name was derived from an Native American tribe. It was established in the 19th century.

[[Brendan O'Neill (journalist)]]

CATEGORIES: English journalists, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Brendan O'Neill is the editor of Spiked Online, an internet magazine about politics. He also writes for The Big Issue, The Australian, and The Daily Telegraph.

[[Speciesism]]

CATEGORIES: Animal rights, Discrimination

Speciesism is thinking that humans are better than animals (although humans are technically also animals). It is also treating animals worse than humans. For example, humans often kill animals to eat. Humans rarely kill and eat other humans. The word 'speciesism' was first used in 1970 by Richard D. Ryder, an English philosopher, in a pamphlet called "Speciesism". It was made popular by Peter Singer's 1975 book Animal Liberation. In the book the name of the fifth chapter was "Man's Dominion ... a short history of speciesism". The word 'speciesism' was first put in the Oxford English Dictionary in 1985.

[[German Colony, Jerusalem]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem

The German Colony in Jerusalem is a neighbourhood in Jerusalem. It began as a colony established by German Templars in 1873. The colony was built in the Valley of Rephaim on the way to Bethlehem, next to the Greek Colony. The main street of the neighbourhood today is Emek Refaim Street. The Rephaim River passes through the valley. It is also known as "White Valley".

[[Greek Colony, Jerusalem]]

CATEGORIES: Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem

The Greek Colony is a neighbourhood in Jerusalem. It started as a colony of Greeks in 1900. The Greek Colony is next to the German Colony at the end of Emek Refaim Street.

[[Richard D. Ryder]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, Animal rights activists, English activists, British psychologists, Writers from Dorset

Richard Hood Jack Dudley Ryder (born 1940) is a British writer and psychologist. In 1969 he became involved with animal rights; he protested against an otter hunt in Dorset. In 1970 he made a new word, "speciesism". He used it in a pamphlet called "Speciesism". It is now in the Oxford Dictionary. Ryder made a theory called painism in 1990. In 2001 a book that Ryder wrote about his theory of painism was published. It was called Painism: A Modern Morality. Painism is the idea that any being that feels pain deserves rights.

Ryder was born in Purbeck in Dorset. He grew up in Corfe Castle. 

In 1971 an essay that Ryder wrote about animal testing was published in the book Animals, Men and Morals.

In 1972 he joined the Council of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA). Ryder helped to organize the first academic conference about animal rights. The conference was in August 1977 at Trinity College, Cambridge. In 1977 he became the chairman of the RSPCA. He stopped being the chairman in 1979.

His first book, Victims of Science, was first published in 1975. It is about how animals were used in scientific research at the time it was written.

[[Clare Balding]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, British autobiographers, Cancer survivors, English journalists, English LGBT people, Lesbians, Living people, LGBT broadcasters, LGBT writers, Television personalities from Hampshire, Writers from Hampshire

Clare Balding OBE (born 29 January 1971) is a British television presenter. She was born in Kingsclere, Hampshire. She is openly lesbian. In 2009, she was diagnosed with thyroid cancer. She recovered later that year. In 2012, a book she wrote about her life was published. It was called My Animals and Other Family. In February 2013 Woman's Hour, a programme on BBC Radio 4, put her on their list of the most powerful women in the UK. Balding presents Britain's Brightest.

[[De Colores]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish-language songs

De Colores is a common folk song in the Spanish-speaking world. Today, it is the anthem of the United Farm Workers movement.

[[Shirley Manson]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Actors from Edinburgh, British feminists, Scottish rock singers, Scottish singer-songwriters, Scottish television actors

Shirley Ann Manson (born 26 August 1966) is a Scottish singer, songwriter, musician and actress. She was born in Edinburgh. She is best known for being the main singer of the rock band Garbage. They have released five albums. 

[[Subantarctic]]

CATEGORIES: Antarctic region, Indian Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Pacific Ocean

The Subantarctic is a region in the southern hemisphere that is just north of the Antarctic region. This covers the part of the world roughly to a latitude of between 46° – 60° south of the Equator. The subantarctic region includes many islands in the southern parts of the Indian Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, and Pacific Ocean.

[[Nils Petter Molvær]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Norwegian musical entertainers

Nils Petter Molvær (born September 18, 1960) is a Norwegian jazz trumpeter. He plays a kind of jazz called future jazz. He has won Spellemannprisen in the Open Class three times. In 1983 he joined Jazzpunkensemblet, a Norwegian jazz orchestra. He released his first solo album Khmer in 1998 in the United States on ECM Records. It has sold more copies than any of his later albums. Molvær played trumpet on the 2008 Hector Zazou album Corps Electriques. Molvær was a member of a post-rock band called Jaga Jazzist.

[[Prince Edward Islands]]

CATEGORIES: Antarctic region, Indian Ocean, Geography of South Africa, Islands

The Prince Edward Islands are two islands in the subantarctic Indian Ocean. They are part of South Africa. The two islands are called Marion Island and Prince Edward Island. The only people on the islands are meteorologists and biologists.Now they are allowing more people to live there.

The islands were discovered in 1769 by a Dutch explorer. Different people visited the islands over the years but no one settled there. The British claimed the islands in 1908, then gave the islands to South Africa in 1948.

[[River Tyne]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Tyne is a river in North East England. It is used for water sport in the summer. More than 43,500 people come and visit it every year. There is a famous bridge that crosses it called the "Tyne Bridge". Another bridge that crosses it is the Millennium Bridge. The bridges connect Gateshead to Newcastle upon Tyne.

[[Frobisher Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Bays of Canada, Nunavut

Frobisher Bay is an inlet of the Labrador Sea in Nunavut, Canada. It is in the southeastern corner of Baffin Island. The capital of Nunavut, Iqaluit, is near the bay. Frobisher Bay is 230 kilometers (140 miles) long and is 40 kilometers (25 miles) wide at its widest point. There are many small islands in the bay.

The bay was discovered in 1576 by Martin Frobisher, an English navigator who was looking for the Northwest Passage.

[[Vitamin String Quartet]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from Los Angeles, California, String quartets, 1999 establishments in California

The Vitamin String Quartet is a music group from Los Angeles. The group is known widely for tribute and cover records of rock, pop or R&B acts. The group started in 1999. They have covered songs of Lady Gaga, Natasha Bedingfield, Adele and many others. Other musicians covered by the Vitamin String Quartet include Bruce Springsteen and Madonna.

[[Midnight Memories]]

CATEGORIES: One Direction albums, 2013 albums, Pop rock albums

Midnight Memories is the third album by the British-Irish boy band One Direction. The album was made released or made public on 25 November 2013. It is their the third album after Up All Night and Take Me Home.

[[Peter Dinklage]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, American Roman Catholics, American animal rights activists, Vegetarians, People with dwarfism, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from New York City, Golden Globe Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors

Peter Hayden Dinklage (born June 11, 1969) is an American actor who starred in the Home Box Office television series Game of Thrones. He also starred in other movies, including Elf (2003), Penelope (2006), Death at a Funeral (2010), and Ice Age: Continental Drift (2012). Dinklage was born in Morristown, New Jersey. He was born with achondroplasia, a form of dwarfism. He studied at Bennington College. In 2005, he married Erica Schmidt. They have one daughter. He is a Catholic. He is a vegetarian and a supporter of animal rights.

[[Elf (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Christmas movies, Movies composed by John Debney, Movies directed by Jon Favreau, Movies set in New York City, New Line Cinema movies

Elf is an American 2003 Christmas comedy movie, directed by Jon Favreau. It stars Will Ferrell, James Caan, Bob Newhart, Zooey Deschanel, and Ed Asner with Leon Redbone. Ferrell plays a human named Buddy who is raised by elves in the North Pole. He lives the way the elves do and helps in Santa's workshop. He travels to New York City to find his father. He is used to how elves live, which is very different from how humans live, with New York being a perfectly opposite way of living compared to the North Pole.

The movie was released to positive reviews on November 7, 2003 by Warner Bros. The film inspired the 2010 Broadway musical Elf: The Musical and NBC's 2014 stop-motion animated television special Elf: Buddy's Musical Christmas.

[[Bellis perennis]]

CATEGORIES: Asteraceae, Flowers

Bellis perennis is a very common European species of daisy, of the Asteraceae family, often considered the model type for the name "daisy".

Many related plants also share the name "daisy", so to distinguish this species from other daisies it is sometimes qualified as common daisy, lawn daisy or English daisy. The plant resembles Leucanthemum vulgare, a similar plant in the same family. Bellis perennis is native to western, central and northern Europe, but widely naturalised in most temperate regions including the Americas, and Australasia.

[[Wu Chinese]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of China

Wu is a group of Chinese dialects spoken in the area around Shanghai in southern China. 

Wu dialects have been spoken by some important people such as Chiang Kai-shek. However, Wu speakers are similar to speakers of Spanish and French because they can not always understand each other. In fact, the name Wu is mainly used by people who study languages.

There are various subgroups of the Wu dialect.

Like other types of Chinese, the Wu dialects are starting to be replaced by Mandarin as time goes on.

[[Military aircraft]]

CATEGORIES: Military aircraft

A Military aircraft is an aeroplane made for military purposes. There are two basic types:

[[Astraphobia]]

CATEGORIES: Phobias

Astraphobia, also called astrapophobia, brontophobia, keraunophobia, or tonitrophobia, is a fear of thunder and lightning. It is a type of specific phobia. Both humans and animals can have this type of phobia.

A person with astraphobia often feels fear during a thunderstorm even if there is a low chance that they will be hurt during the storm. They will sometimes look for better shelter during the storm. They might hide under a bed, under blankets, in a closet, in a basement, or anywhere else where they feel safe. A sign that a person has astraphobia is if they are very interested in weather forecasts. A person with astraphobia will want to hear news of storms that are coming by watching the weather on television or watching the storms on the internet.

[[Up All Night]]

CATEGORIES: One Direction albums, 2011 albums, Pop albums

Up All Night is the debut or first album from the British-Irish boy band One Direction. It was made available to fans and the public on 18 November 2011.

[[Zenobia]]

CATEGORIES: Syrian people, 240s births, 270s deaths, Kings and queens

Zenobia (240 – c. 275 Ζηνοβία) was a queen who ruled in the 3rd century over the Palmyrene Empire in what is today Syria. She led a famous revolt against the Roman Empire. She was the second wife of King Septimius Odaenathus. Zenobia became queen of Palmyra after Odaenathus' death in 267. By 269, Zenobia had expanded the empire, taking over Egypt from the Romans. Tenagino Probus, the Roman governor, committed suicide after his failed attempt to recapture the territory. In 272 Zenobia declared herself Empress. She ruled over Egypt until 274, when she was defeated and taken as a hostage to Rome by Emperor Aurelian.

Zenobia was Semitic. Many people think she was either Arab, Jewish or Aramean. She gave her son an Arabic name but her family spoke the Aramaic language, the language of the Arameans. She is known by other names, such as ar (الزباء) in Arabic sources, Zenobius in Latin sources and arc (בת זבי) in Aramaic sources.

[[Whitehouse.gov]]

CATEGORIES: American websites, Executive branch of the United States government

Whitehouse.gov is the official website of the White House. It is owned by the United States government. It was started in October 1994. It has information about events in American history, as well as current news about the President, news conferences, announcements made by the President, executive orders, and speeches that the President has made on radio.

The website is the responsibility of the current administration. It is changed for each new president. The content of the website is in the public domain. It is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution license.

[[Carlos Ghosn]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Alumni of the École Polytechnique, Brazilian people, French businesspeople, Lebanese Christians, Renault, Criminals

Carlos Ghosn is a French-Lebanese-Brazilian  businessman and fugitive from the justice system of Japan.

He is an internationally wanted criminal. He was the Chairman and chief executive officer of Renault, which is based in Paris. He held the same positions at Nissan, based in Japan. Together, these companies produce more than 10% of cars sold around the world. Ghosn was also Chairman and CEO of the Renault-Nissan Alliance, the strategic partnership overseeing the two companies through a unique cross-shareholding agreement.

He was born in Brazil.

On January 2, 2020, Interpol issued a red notice to Lebanon seeking Ghosn's arrest.

[[Manal al-Sharif]]

CATEGORIES: Saudi Arabian people, 1979 births, Living people, Activists

Manal al-Sharif is a Saudi Arabian activist for women's rights in the kingdom. She helped start a women's right to drive campaign in 2011. A women's rights activist who had previously filmed herself driving, Wajeha al-Huwaider, filmed al-Sharif driving a car as part of the campaign. The video was posted on YouTube and Facebook.

Women are not allowed to drive in Saudi Arabia. Al-Sharif was arrested and released on 21 May and then rearrested the next day. On 30 May, al-Sharif was released on bail, on the conditions of returning for questioning if asked, not driving and not talking to the media. The New York Times and Associated Press reported the women's driving campaign as part of the Arab Spring. They reported the length of al-Sharif's detention with the Saudi government's fear of protests.

Following her driving campaign, al-Sharif remained an active critic of the Saudi government. She posted things on Twitter (known as tweeting) about imprisoned female foreign workers, the lack of elections for the Shura Council, and the murder of Lama al-Ghamdi. Her work has been praised by Foreign Policy, Time, and the Oslo Freedom Forum.

[[Kate Bornstein]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Jewish American LGBT people, Jewish American writers, LGBT people from New Jersey, Transgender and transsexual Jews, Writers from New Jersey

Katherine Vandam "Kate" Bornstein (born March 15, 1948) is an American writer.  She lives in New York City with her partner Barbara Carrellas. In 2012 she made a video for Dan Savage's It Gets Better Project. In August 2012 she was diagnosed with lung cancer.

Bornstein was born in New Jersey to a Jewish family.

In 1970 Bornstein joined the Church of Scientology. She left in 1981.

Bornstein does not feel male or female. She was born male. In 1986 she had sex reassignment surgery. She has written books about gender. The most well-known one is Gender Outlaw.

In 2013 a documentary about Bornstein called Kate Bornstein is a Queer & Pleasant Danger was made.

[[Disconnecting switch]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A disconnecting switch (or disconnector) is an electrical switch used in high-voltage electrical circuits to isolate the section which has electricity from the section with no electricity. This is done for a full safety method during electrical equipment maintenance or service.

[[House of Farnese]]

CATEGORIES: House of Farnese, Papal families

The House of Farnese was a noble family from Italy. They owned fine art collections within their many palaces throughout Rome. Two of their members became Popes. The famous Elisabetta Farnese was a member of the family and she had great political influence over her husband, Philip V of Spain. The family were also the rulers of the small Italian Duchy of Parma. The family's art collection was only rivalled by that of the Medici.

[[Electrostatic precipitator]]

CATEGORIES: Air pollution, Machines

An electrostatic precipitator (ESP) is a device to capture particles from a flowing gas. It uses the force produced by electrostatic charge. ESPs are used in many power plants which burn fuel to produce energy, such as in power stations. Any gas produced by fuel burning will pollute the air much less after being passed through an ESP.

[[Voltage spike]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A voltage spike is a sudden increase in voltage value over a short time in power systems. It can be caused by several factors, but mostly it is due to external or internal disturbance. A voltage spike might cause an increase in current, but the increase in voltage might have been caused by the current increase as well.

[[Transmission tower]]

CATEGORIES: Towers, Electricity distribution

A transmission tower or pylon (also known as an ironman in Australia and a hydro tower in parts of Canada) is a tall tower used for electric power transmission. It carries the electrical conductors (wires) of high-voltage overhead power lines. The tower is high for a safe distance for people, animals or things below the wires.

Most big transmission towers are lattice steel structures. Smaller ones may be wood, concrete or steel poles. 

[[Donald Watson]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 2005 deaths, British teachers, People from Yorkshire

Donald Watson (2 September 1910 – 16 November 2005) was an English woodwork teacher who made the word 'vegan'. He started the Vegan Society in 1944. 

In 1924, Watson saw a pig being killed on his uncle's farm. After this he became a vegetarian. He was fourteen years old. When Watson was fifteen he left school to be an apprentice woodworker. Watson was born in Mexborough, Yorkshire.

[[Overburden]]

CATEGORIES: Mining, Geology

Overburden is the material that sits on top of an area where miners or archaeologists want to dig. In mining, it is usually the soil or rock that sits on top of a coal or ore deposit. The soil needs to be removed to get to the minerals or objects below.

[[Coal preparation plant]]

CATEGORIES: Coal mining

A coal preparation plant (or coal handling plant) is a place where coal is prepared for use after it has been mined. The coal is washed and resized here, before it is transported to be sold, loaded on coal transport or used locally. It is then transported to coal-fired power plants, for example.

[[Boiler feedwater pump]]

CATEGORIES: Fluid mechanics, Tools, Boilers

A boiler feedwater pump is a pump that supplies water to a boiler. The water can be supplied freshly from a water source (such as a reservoir) or from water that has gone through the condensation process from the previous water cycle. The pump is a high-pressure pump, and it can be found in any plant that uses boiler, such as thermal power stations.

[[Three-phase electric power]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Three-phase electric power is a method to generate, transmit and distribute AC electricity. It is the most common method in power systems to transfer power from generation to load. Three-phase systems are usually more economical to be used than equivalent single-phase or double-phase systems.

[[Power factor]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

In electricity, the power factor (PF or cosφ) is the ratio between the power that can be used in electric circuit (real power, P) and the power from the result of multiplication between the current and voltage circuit (apparent power, S). The power factor is defined as:

PF ranges from zero to one. The higher the PF, the more efficient the circuit is because more power can be used, and vice versa. Factors that can cause PF to be less than one is non-linear load, which are capacitive load and inductive load.

[[Laverne Cox]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Alabama, American feminists, LGBT actors, LGBT African Americans, LGBT people from Alabama, Living people, People from Mobile, Alabama, Transgender and transsexual people, 1972 births

Laverne Cox is an American actress and LGBT advocate. She is best known for playing Sophia Burset in Orange Is the New Black, a Netflix series. Burset is a transgender woman in a women's prison.

[[Transit bus]]

CATEGORIES: Buses

Transit buses (also city buses, town buses or public buses) are public transport vehicles that transport  people for short and medium distances, especially within the same city. Public transit buses often use large or multiple exit and entry doors to make boarding and exiting easier, and have minimal to moderate luggage spaces (or none at all), and air conditioner/heating for passengers and drivers.

Pull chains or cords are also used on public buses. Fares are usually paid with cash, tickets or certain credit/debit cards. Many people prefer using public buses, instead of driving their own automobile for many reasons (such as not able or willing to drive).

[[Terry Funk]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Indiana, Sportspeople from Texas, People from Amarillo, Texas, People from Hammond, Indiana, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni, WWE Hall of Fame

Terrence "Terry" Funk (born June 30, 1944) is an American semi-retired professional wrestler and former actor.

He is best known for working with National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), American Wrestling Association (AWA), World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW), Ring of Honor (ROH) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). He is the first and only person to have been inducted into the WWE, WCW, Professional Wrestling, NWA, Hardcore, Wrestling Observer, and St. Louis Wrestling Halls of Fame.

He has had numerous "retirement matches" and was one of the primary subjects in the documentary movie Beyond the Mat.

[[Leonid Gaidai]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1993 deaths, Soviet people, Movie directors

Leonid Gaidai (30 January 1923 – 19 November 1993), was a Soviet comedy movie director. He was born in Svobodny, Amur Oblast.

[[Maria Bello]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, American movie actors, Living people, LGBT people from Pennsylvania, Bisexual people, LGBT actors, American television actors

Maria Elena Bello (born April 18, 1967) is an American actress and singer. She has acted in the movies Permanent Midnight (1998), Payback (1999), Coyote Ugly (2000), The Cooler (2003), A History of Violence (2005), Thank You for Smoking (2006), and The Jane Austen Book Club (2007). In television, she acted in the medical drama ER from 1997 to 1998. She stars in NCIS. She also acted in Touch in 2013.

She was born in Pennsylvania. In November 2013, Bello wrote about having a same-sex relationship with her partner Clare Munn.

[[Paiçandu]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Paraná State, 1948 establishments in South America, 1940s establishments in Brazil

Paiçandu is a city in the state of Paraná in the south of Brazil. Paiçandu was founded in 1948.

[[Susan Stryker]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American academics, American LGBT people, American LGBT rights activists, American movie producers, LGBT academics, LGBT producers, LGBT writers, Transgender and transsexual people

Susan O'Neal Stryker (born 1961) is an American professor and activist. She is a lesbian transgender woman. Her first book, Gay by the Bay: A History of Queer Culture in the San Francisco Bay Area, was published in 1996 by Chronicle Books. Stryker wrote the book with Jim Van Buskirk. It was nominated for a Lambda Literary Award.

She edited the 2003 essay collection The Transgender Studies Reader. In 2005 Screaming Queens: The Riot at Compton's Cafeteria was released. Stryker got an Emmy Award for it. In 2008 Seal Press published Stryker's book Transgender History. She wrote the 2013 documentary Masculinity/Femininity. The Association for Queer Anthropology gave Stryker the 2013 Ruth Benedict Prize.

[[Gossip (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in the United States, American rock bands, Indie rock bands, Musical groups from Washington, Olympia, Washington, 1990s establishments in Washington (state), Musical groups established in 1999

Gossip is an American indie rock band. They started in 1999 in Olympia, Washington as The Gossip. The main singer is Beth Ditto. Brace Paine is the guitarist and Hannah Blilie is the drummer. The band became popular with their third album Standing in the Way of Control (2006). Three singles were released from the album. The first single, "Standing in the Way of Control", reached number seven in the UK Singles Chart. Gossip's fourth album Music for Men was released in 2009 by Columbia Records. Their 2009 single "Heavy Cross" reached number two in Germany's chart.

[[House of Gonzaga]]

CATEGORIES: House of Gonzaga

The House of Gonzaga were a noble family that ruled Mantua in Northern Italy from 1328 to 1708. They also ruled Monferrato in Piedmont, Nevers in France, and also many other lesser fiefs in Italy and Europe. Among their members was a saint, twelve cardinals and fourteen bishops of the Catholic Church.

[[Longship]]

CATEGORIES: Ship types, History of Europe

Longships were seagoing vessels made and used for trade, exploring, and raiding. They are usually thought of as Viking ships but were used by early people on the Baltic Sea and the North Sea. It was the Vikings who mastered the design of light fast longships that could also go up rivers. At the beginning of the Anglo-Saxon period in Britain, the invading groups of Angles, Saxons, Frisians and Jutes arrived in longships. From that time on longships were also being built and used in the British Isles. When the Normans conquered England in 1066, William the Conqueror used a large fleet of longships to transport his army to England. 

[[Sabu (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from New York, Former WWE wrestlers, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling alumni

Terry Michael Brunk (born December 12, 1964) is an American professional wrestler.

He is best known for working with Extreme Championship Wrestling, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, and World Wrestling Entertainment's ECW brand under the ring name Sabu. He is known for competing in hardcore-type matches. He was trained by his uncle, Ed Farhat who was known by his ring name, The Sheik.

[[Hill House School]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 establishments in the United Kingdom, Schools in London, 1950s establishments in England

Hill House School is a preparatory school in Knightsbridge, London, England. It was started in 1951 by Lt. Col. Stuart Townend. It is for boys and girls aged 4 to 11. The school only allowed male students until 1981.

[[Competitive advantage]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

In economics a competitive advantage is something that allows someone or a company to beat their rivals. This includes:

[[Comparative advantage]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

Comparative advantage is a term economists use, especially in international trade. A country has a comparative advantage when it can make goods or services at a lower opportunity cost than another country.

[[Hikikomori]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese culture

Hikikomori is a Japanese word that describes people who withdraw from society and spend extreme amounts of time on their own. The withdrawal usually happens slowly. Tamaki Saitō was the first person to use the word. In 1998 his book Shakaiteki hikikomori--Owaranai Shishunki was published. An English translation by Jeffrey Angles, Hikikomori: Adolescence without End, was published in 2013. The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare defines hikikomori as people who refuse to leave their house for over six months. In 2010 there were 700,000 hikikomori. The average hikikomori was 31 years old. Tamaki Saitō thinks that there may be over 1 million hikikomori (1% of the Japanese population).

People who withdrew from society during school refusal is often referred to as futōkō (不登校).

English words with similar meanings include recluse and agoraphobic.

[[Heinrich Boere]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Dutch military personnel of World War II, German prisoners, German war criminals, Murderers, People from Eschweiler, People who died in prison custody, Waffen-SS people

Heinrich Boere (27 September 1921 – 1 December 2013) was a convicted German-Dutch war criminal and former member of the Waffen-SS. He was one of the most wanted Nazis during the 1940s.

Boere was born in Eschweiler, Germany to a Dutch father and German mother.

Boere began serving his life sentence on 16 December 2011 at the age of 90. He died on 1 December 2013 in prison custody in Fröndenberg from natural causes, aged 92.

[[Donald Malarkey]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2017 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, People from Oregon, Purple Heart recipients

Donald G. Malarkey (July 31, 1921 – September 30, 2017) was a former non-commissioned officer during World War II.  Malarkey was portrayed in the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers by Scott Grimes. 

Malarkey was born in Astoria, Oregon on July 31, 1921.

[[Tony Musante]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Bridgeport, Connecticut, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Deaths from surgical complications

Anthony Peter "Tony" Musante (June 30, 1936 – November 26, 2013) was an American actor. He was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut into an Italian-American family. He was known for his role as David Toma in the 1970s television series Toma and as Joe D'Angelo in As the World Turns.

He died of complications following surgery on November 26, 2013, aged 77, in Manhattan, New York City.

[[Lewis Collins]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Cheshire, Cancer deaths in Los Angeles, English movie actors, English television actors, People from Birkenhead

Lewis Collins (26 May 1946 – 27 November 2013) was an English actor. He was best known for his tough-guy role as Bodie in the ITV drama series The Professionals. It ran from 1977 to 1983.

Collins died from cancer in Los Angeles, California on 27 November 2013, aged 67.

[[Edward Heffron]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American military people, World War II people, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Edward James Heffron (May 16, 1923 - December 1, 2013)   was a former American World War II-veteran. Heffron was played in the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers by Robin Laing. He wrote some books about his view of the war. 

Heffron was born in South Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on May 16, 1923. He died on December 1, 2013 from natural causes in his home in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, aged 90. 

[[Alice Herz-Sommer]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 2014 deaths, British supercentenarians, Czech Jews, Holocaust survivors, Jewish British musicians, Jewish Israeli musicians, Jewish supercentenarians, Musicians from Prague, Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom, Twin people from the United Kingdom

Alice Herz-Sommer, also known as Alice Sommer (26 November 1903 – 23 February 2014), was a Czech-British music teacher and supercentenarian from Bohemia. She was a survivor of the Theresienstadt concentration camp and believed to be the oldest living Holocaust survivor. However, Polish-born Israeli man Yisrael Kristal was in fact two months older.

Herz was born in Prague, Austria-Hungary on 26 November 1903, along with her twin sister Mariana. She married the businessman and amateur musician Leopold Sommer in 1931. They had one son, Raphael Sommer. Leopold Sommer was later sent to Auschwitz. Although he survived the camp, he died at Dachau in 1944.

She lived in Israel and worked as a music teacher in Jerusalem. She then moved to Belsiza Park in London in 1986. Raphael Sommer, her only child, was a cellist and conductor. He died in 2001.

Herz-Sommer died on the morning of 23 February 2014 in London, England, from natural causes, aged 110.

[[Mister Donut]]

CATEGORIES: American food companies, 1956 establishments, Sweet breads

Mister Donut is a worldwide food franchise which sells pastries, soda, coffee, muffins and doughnuts. The company was established in the United States in 1956, though it is now based from Japan. The company was acquired in 1990, following which every North American outlet was renamed Dunkin' Donuts except for fewer than six by the start of 2010. Only one Illinois location continues using the Mister Donut corporate name.

[[Acid Black Cherry]]

CATEGORIES: Visual kei bands, Musical groups established in 2007

Acid Black Cherry is the solo project of Japanese musician, Yasu. He started the project in 2007. It was after his previous band, Janne Da Arc, announced that they were taking a break. Acid Black Cherry is often called ABC.

[[Olive Garden]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 establishments in the United States, American restaurants

The Olive Garden is an American casual dining restaurant. It serves Italian-American cuisine. The Olive Garden was established in December 1982 in Orlando, Florida. There are over 800 locations worldwide. 

[[Ipovlopsychophobia]]

CATEGORIES: Phobias

Ipovlopsychophobia is a fear of having one's own photograph taken. It is a type of specific phobia.

[[Camera shyness]]

CATEGORIES: Emotions

Camera shyness is when a person doesn't want a photograph taken of them. Many people who are camera shy do not like to speak in public or perform in front of other people.

A fear of having one's own picture taken is called ipovlopsychophobia.

[[Availability factor]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Availability factor in a power plant is the amount of time that it is able to produce electricity over a certain period, divided by the amount of the time in the period. The availability factor depends on the type of power plant, the source of energy used and how the plant is operated. Newer types of power plants usually have higher availability factors than old power plants.

[[Base load power plant]]

CATEGORIES: Power plants

A base load power plant is a power station that usually provides a continuous supply of electricity throughout the year with some minimum power generation requirement. Base load power plants will only be turned off during periodic maintenance, upgrading, overhaul or service. Base load power plant has the character of slow demand respond, a mechanism to match generation with the load it supplies.

Examples of base load power plants are coal-fired power plant, geothermal power plant, tidal power plant, nuclear power plant, etc.

[[Peaking power plant]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A peaking power plant (or peaker) is a power station that only runs during peak hours of demand of electricity. Because of that, the price of electricity it generates is generally higher than the electricity generated by base load power plant, which operates continuously throughout the year. Peak hours may include hot afternoons when air conditioners are working.

Examples of peaking power plants are a hydropower plant, pumped-storage hydro power plant, and gas-fired power plant. Nuclear and solar power are not used in this way.

[[Analytical psychology]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Analytical psychology is the school of psychology that came from the ideas of Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung. Analytical psychology has two main parts: 

[[Load following power plant]]

CATEGORIES: Power plants

A load following power plant is a power plant that can adjust the amount of electricity it generates to match the changing demand throughout the day. Load following power plants are usually in between base load power plant and peaking power plant in terms of construction cost, cost of the electricity it generates, efficiency, and capacity.

Hydroelectric power plant can be considered load following power plant.

[[Cable tray]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A cable tray is a system to put insulated cables and other wiring (communication, network etc.) in building structures, such as in office buildings, residential, industries etc. A cable tray system gives easy access. This is useful when adding new cables or replacing the old cables on the tray.

Cable trays can be made out of galvanized steel, stainless steel, aluminum or plastic. The choice depends on how it will be used or where it will be placed.

[[Brownout (electricity)]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A brownout is a drop of voltage in an electrical power supply. Brownouts may be done intentionally in order to reduce the load during an emergency. This is done to prevent a total supply failure ("blackout"). Brownouts can also be caused accidentally by faults in the electrical grid which cause a drop in voltage.

[[Adams County, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Indiana counties, 1836 establishments in Indiana

Adams County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Decatur.

[[Independent Power Producer]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Companies

An Independent Power Producer (IPP) or Non-Utility Generator (NUG) is an organisation that owns a power-producing facility and can sell electricity to utility companies and electricity users. An IPP is usually a private company and is generally not a public utility company. Transaction of electricity between IPP with its customers are usually regulated under the power purchase agreement.

[[Allen County, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Indiana counties, 1824 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Indiana

Allen County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Fort Wayne.

[[Bartholomew County, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Indiana counties, 1821 establishments in Indiana

Bartholomew County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Columbus.

[[Al-Ma'mun]]

CATEGORIES: 786 births, 833 deaths, Caliphs

Abū Jaʿfar Abdullāh al-Maʾmūn ibn Harūn (also spelled Almamon, Al-Maymun, Al-Ma’moon, and el-Mâmoûn; 13 September 786 – 9 August 833) was an Abbasid caliph. He reigned from 813 until his death in 833.

Al-Ma’mun was born on 13 September 786 AD in Baghdad. His father was Harun al-Rashid, who was an Abbasid caliph. He was a member of the third dynasty of the descendants of Muhammad who were caliphs of Islam. While his father ruled, al-Ma’mun was the governor of Khorasan. After al-Ma’mun was born his father had another son named al-Amin. Before his father died he announced that al-Amin would be the new caliph and al-Ma’mun would continue to be the governor of Khorasan even though al-Ma’mun was older. When Harun al-Rashid died and al-Amin became the caliph, he took away al-Ma’mun's ability to inherit the throne after he died. The two brothers went to war against each other. Al-Ma’mun defeated al-Amin. He cut off al-Amin's head. Since al-Amin had no other heir to the throne, al-Ma’mun became the new caliph.

During his reign al-Ma’mun tried to reunite Sunnis and Shiites. These are the two main brances of Islam that have different beliefs on who should lead Islam. Al-Ma’mun opened many learning centers in his empire. One big one was in Baghdad, which was called the House of Wisdom. Many other libraries and schools were built all over the empire. He was also a big sponsor of philosophy and astronomy.

He had one wife who he tried to divorce. However, his wife got a powerful judge who refused to allow the divorce. He had no children and no heirs with this wife. Instead, he chose another woman to provide an heir.

Al-Ma’mun died on August 9, 833. He remained caliph until his death.  

[[Anna Komnene]]

CATEGORIES: 1083 births, 1153 deaths, Greek people, Greek physicians, Princes and princesses

Anna Komnene (sometimes spelled Comnena; Άννα Κομνηνή, el) was a Greek princess, scholar and doctor. She was the eldest daughter of Emperor Alexios I Komnenos of Byzantium and Irene Doukaina.

Komnene was born in Constantinople on 2 December 1083. She was originally engaged to Constantine Ducas, heir to the throne. Unfortunately he died at a young age and Anna married Nicephorus Bryennius in 1097 AD. Anna wanted her husband to inherit the throne. Even when her father was dying she tried to persuade him to make her husband heir.

Anna's brother, John II Komnenos, took the throne in 1188. Anna then tried to remove her brother from the throne, and her husband refused to help her. Anna was caught. She then gave up her property and retired to a convent. While she lived there, Anna wrote her book, The Alexiad. This is about the Byzantine Empire. The 15 books of The Alexiad were written in Greek. Her book is still important because Anna had access to the royal archives and had an inside view of politics.

Anna spent a large part of her life in a convent, but she did not become a nun until shortly before she died. She died in 1153 or 1154 AD.

[[Eleazar of Worms]]

CATEGORIES: 1176 births, 1238 deaths, German esotericists, German poets, Jewish German writers, Mystics, People from Mainz, People from Worms, Germany

Eleazar of Worms (אלעזר מוורמייזא; c. 1176 – 1238), or Eleazar ben Judah ben Kalonymus, was a Jewish mystic. He was an important student of the Talmud. He was also the last major member of the Chassidei Ashkenaz, a group of German Jewish mystics.

Eleazar of Worms was born in Mainz. He traveled and studied at many centers of learning in Germany and northern France. He belonged to the Kalonymus family, which was one of the most important German-Jewish families at the time. His father, Judah B. Kalonymus, was one of the leading scholars of his generation. Eleazar learned from his father about Jewish law and theology.

Eleazar spent most of his life living in Worms. He was a Jewish pietist. Eleazar wrote many books and poems on praising God, and studied liturgical poetry, halakhah, theology, ethics and exegesis. Some of his works were printed but many have been lost. Eleazar witnessed and suffered the persecution of Jews. Eleazar's wife, two daughters  were murdered, and he and his son were badly injured.

[[Xuanzang]]

CATEGORIES: 600s births, 664 deaths, Chinese scholars, Asian explorers, Monks, Buddhist clergy, Chinese translators

Xuanzang (玄奘; ह्वेनसांग; about 602 – 664) was a Chinese Buddhist scholar, traveller and translator. He described the relations between China and India in the early Tang Dynasty.

[[Sei Shōnagon]]

CATEGORIES: 966 births, 1017 deaths, Japanese writers

Sei Shōnagon was a Japanese writer. She was a court lady who served the Empress Teishi (Sadako) during the middle Heian period. She is best known as the author of The Pillow Book. She also wrote diaries and poems.

[[Tomoe Gozen]]

CATEGORIES: 1150s births, 1247 deaths, Samurai

Tomoe Gozen was a female samurai who lived in Japan.

When Tomoe Gozen was a girl she was taught the skills of an upper-class Japanese woman: writing, musical theatre, archery, horseback riding and fencing. She became a skilled horseman and brave warrior. She became a lover or a concubine of Minamoto no Yoshinaka when she was a teenager.

When Tomoe Gozen was about 28 years old, she fought in the Gempei War (1180–1185). In the Battle of Awazu (February 1184), Minamoto no Yoshinaka was killed by his cousin Yoritomo. Tomoe's reaction to this is not really known. Some people have theories about what might have happened to her. Some think she may have fled from the Gempei War or she may have continued fighting after his death. She also might have been asked to go by Yoshinaka (who believed that his honor would be destroyed if he was killed by a woman) when he realized he would be killed.

After this time, historians do not know what happened. Yoritomo's friend Yoshimori forced Tomoe to marry him. But Yoshinori died before Tomoe gave birth to a son. According to legend, their son was Asahina Yoshihide. He grew up to be a famous samurai. Tomoe joined a nunnery, where she stayed for the rest of her life. Today, Tomoe Gozen is a role model for many Japanese women.

[[Al-Kindi]]

CATEGORIES: 800s births, 873 deaths, Iraqi people, Muslims, Philosophers, Scientists

Abu Yūsuf Yaʻqūb ibn ʼIsḥāq aṣ-Ṣabbāḥ al-Kindī (أبو يوسف يعقوب بن إسحاق الصبّاح الكندي, Alkindus; c. 801 – 873 CE), was an Iraqi philosopher. He was called "the Philosopher of the Arabs". He is often thought of as the first Arab philosopher, and one of the most important scholars in the Islamic world.

Al-Kindi was born in Yemen to a rich family. As well as philosophy, he worked in astronomy, alchemy, mathematics, medicine, geography, and many other topics. He became a member of a scientific place of study called the House of Wisdom. As a member there, he helped to preserve a type of philosophy called Hellenistic philosophy. He also edited Greek treatises (written works that formally explain a topic). He also wrote his own treatises on vision, precious stones and minerals. He wrote the first treatise on various types of steel swords, metallurgy. His treatises on music were thought to be the best works on the subject of music in Arabic. He died at age 72 in 873.

[[Cai Lun]]

CATEGORIES: 50s births, 121 deaths, Chinese inventors, Paper

Cai Lun (蔡伦; c. 50 AD – 121) was a Chinese eunuch and politician. He is generally regarded as the inventor of paper. Earlier forms of paper, such as papyrus, were used in China from the 2nd century BC. However, Cai Lun developed another form of paper, which is used today.

Cai Lun was born in Leiyang (then called Guiyang), a part of Hunan. He lived during the Han Dynasty. His courtesy name was Jingzhong (敬仲). He served the government as a eunuch from AD 75, and in AD 89 got a promotion to be a "Shang Fang Si", someone who makes weapons, and a Regular Palace Attendant(中常侍). Cai Lun invented paper in the year 105. For his invention, he was rewarded by the Emperor. After his death he was considered the patron of papermaking. To make paper, Cai Lun used a pulp made of materials such as tree bark and rags. He then strained the liquid from the pulp and spread it out to dry. Legend has it that the mortar, a tool he used to grind materials, was buried in a pool near his grave.

[[Shen Kuo]]

CATEGORIES: 1031 births, 1095 deaths, History of China, Chinese inventors, Chinese scientists, Astronomers

Shen Kuo (or Shen Gua 沈括; 1031–1095) was a Chinese scientist and politician. He lived during the Song Dynasty. He was a polymath, being good at many fields of study.

Many of his most important works came from his use of astronomy. In 1088, Shen was the first to describe the magnetic needle compass, which would be used for navigation. He was also one of the first to suggest that the Earth goes through gradual climate change. His hobbies consisted of music, painting, calligraphy, and philosophy.

[[Al Sahili]]

CATEGORIES: 1290 births, 1346 deaths, Malian people, Architects, People from Granada

Abu Ishaq Ibrahim al-Sahili (1290–1346) was an architect during the Mali Empire. He lived under the rule of Mansa Musa.

He was born in Granada in 1290. At the time this was part of Muslim Spain. Al-Sahili studied law and the arts. He was known as a gifted poet. His family were rich merchants (traders). He left Granada in 1321 and began to travel through the Middle East, to Egypt, Syria, Iraq and Yemen. In 1346, he met the ruler of Mali, Mansa Musa, who loved his poetry and invited him to return.

Al-Sahili built for Mansa Musa an audience chamber (or Djingereyber; Great Mosque) in 1327. The mosque was described as a square building with a dome. The outside was decorated with plaster and patterns in colors. It was built with banco: soil mixed with wood, mixed with dried grass, and other fibers allowed to dry in the sun. It was built with the same architectural style as the Alhambra in Granada. Mansa Musa then wanted him to make a house for him, but the building was destroyed over time. He started a new trend of rounded arches in Timbuktu. Al-Sahili died there in 1346.

[[Sakura (mansa)]]

CATEGORIES: Malian people, Emperors and empresses, 13th century births, 1300 deaths

Mansa Sakura (also spelled Sakoura) was the sixth emperor (mansa) of the Mali Empire. He was born a slave, but was later freed. Soon after he was freed he became a general in the army of Sundiata Keita. When Sundiata Keita died, there was a struggle between his sons over who would become the emperor. Around 1285, Sakura took control of the throne. He became the ruler of Mali and brought the empire back together. 

Mansa Sakura became a powerful leader. He was known for exploring other lands and using the ideas he saw in his own kingdom. He also encouraged trade. Under Sakura's leadership, the Mali Empire made several new conquests. It expanded along the Gambia River to the sea. It became a dominant force in West Africa.

Sakura performed the Hajj shortly before his death. On his way home, he was attacked near Djibouti by warriors who wanted his gold. He was killed in the attack, which happened around the year 1300.

After Sakura died, the throne was returned to the royal heirs of the Keita dynasty. The next emperor was Sundiata's nephew, Gao.

[[Sonni Ali]]

CATEGORIES: Malian people, Year of birth missing, 1492 deaths, Kings and queens

Sonni Ali (also known as Sunni Ali Ber or Sunni Ali) was the first king of the Songhai Empire in western Africa. He ruled from about 1464 to 1492. He was the 15th ruler of the Sonni dynasty. During Sonni's reign, Songhai surpassed the Mali Empire in power. His armies captured several important cities, such as Timbuktu (in 1468) and Djenné (captured in 1475). His battle strategies greatly expanded the empire's territory.

Before Sonni took Timbuktu in 1468, the city was controlled by Tuareg raiders. He then conquered the Tuareg and took them under his rule, which brought the great Saharan trade routes to his kingdom. After conquering Timbuktu, he and his army went south to conquer the port of Djenné, on the Niger River. The city surrendered after a long-fought siege.

Sonni defined himself as Muslim, but was careful to not separate himself from the traditional animist beliefs. He executed many of the clerics from Timbuktu. He ran a very organized and powerful military. His army included both soldiers on horseback, as well as soldiers who fought on foot. He also built a fleet of ships to control the ports along the Niger River.

In 1480, Sunni Ali attacked the Mossi Kingdoms south of the Niger River. Unfortunately, he did not conquer the Mossi, but he was able to stop the spread of their empire. He also fought a successful war against several of the Fulani states. On his return home from this war, Sonni drowned in a river, in 1493

[[Soumaoro Kanté]]

CATEGORIES: Malian people, Year of birth missing, Year of death missing, Kings and queens

Soumaoro Kanté (also written Sumanguru Kanté) was a king of the Sosso people during the 13th century. The Sosso formed their kingdom in the 1180s, after the collapse of the Ghana Empire.

In the Epic of Sundiata, Soumaoro is portrayed as a villain. He is said to have been a supernatural warrior with eight heads rising above his own. Many of his military victories were associated with his supernatural powers.

In 1203, Soumaoro captured Koumbi, the old capital of Ghana. He conquered several neighbouring peoples, including nine other kingdoms in the early 1200s. Among these were the Mandinka in what is now Mali. Soumaoro killed all of the Mandinka king's sons except one. This son, Sundiata Keita, was a cripple, and Soumaoro did not believe him to be a threat.

A short time later, however, Sundiata built an alliance of smaller kingdoms to oppose Soumaoro. Legends describe Sundiata as having supernatural powers as well. In 1230, Sundiata founded the Mali Empire. He defeated Soumaoro at the Battle of Kirina in 1235.

Sourmaoro ruled as a tyrant. His empire lasted a little more that 30 years. He was unable to maintain stability. He also made his people pay heavy taxes. He made them give him large amounts of gold, food, and livestock. On top of that he demanded that his subjects turn over the most beautiful women for his pleasure and the strongest boys to be his slaves. He killed anyone suspected of becoming a potential threat to his rule. Although he was successful on the battlefield, Sumanguru an arrogant, brutal and intolerant ruler. He failed at winning the faith and loyalty of the people he had hoped to unify under his rule.

[[Sundiata Keita]]

CATEGORIES: 1217 births, 1255 deaths, Malian people, Emperors and empresses

Sundiata Keita (c. 1210 – c. 1260) was the founder of the Mali Empire. He ruled as emperor (mansa) from 1235 to 1260. He is celebrated as a hero of the Mandinka people of West Africa in the Epic of Sundiata. Sundiata changed his father's small kingdom into the core of the Mali Empire. It grew to be one of largest and richest empires of Africa.

Sundiata Keita was born in about 1210. His father was Naré Maghann Konaté, a king of the Mandinka. Keita was disabled from birth. His legend follows the theme of a culture hero overcoming extreme hardships to achieve greatness. According to the legend, Keita and his mother went into voluntary exile to avoid the risk of being killed by his jealous half-brother, Kankaran Tuman, who had become king in 1218. While Keita and his mother were in exile, the Mandinka were conquered by the Sosso Empire. Later, Keita was recalled by his fellow people to free them from this foreign oppression.

In the early 1200s, the independence of the Mandinka was threatened by the Sosso. Sosso was one of the many kingdoms that succeeded the Ghana Empire. Keita, who had already become a king, gathered his people and fought a battle with the Sosso army. In 1235, Keita and his army destroyed the army of Soumaoro Kanté, the ruler of the Sosso. This battle is called the Battle of Kirina, located in present-day Mali.

Further military advancements led to the expansion of the Mali Empire. The empire thrived, because it controlled many of the major gold fields and was an important center of trans-Saharan trade. Keita also successfully combined Islamic and traditional African beliefs to create a functional kingdom. Today, some of the Mandinka people of West Africa still regard Sundiata as a hero.

Little is known about the later life of Keita, but it is known that Keita ruled for about 25 years before his death. It is said that Keita was killed in an accident in his capital city.

[[Zhang Heng]]

CATEGORIES: 78 births, 139 deaths, Chinese engineers, Chinese inventors, Chinese mathematicians, Chinese scientists, Astronomers, Cartographers, Physicists

Zhang Heng (also written Chang Hêng, 張衡; AD 78–139) was a Chinese scientist who worked in many subjects. He lived during the Han dynasty. He was an accomplished engineer, meteorologist, geologist, philosopher, mathematician, astronomer and writer.

Zhang invented the first seismometer, a machine that measures the strength of earthquakes. He is remembered for many other inventions and writings. He invented the seismometer in 132 AD. Heng was also the first in China to apply a grid system to maps, from which positions and distances could be calculated.

Some of his jobs were chief astronomer of the Imperial Chancellery for Astronomical and Calendrical Science, and chief minister under the rule of Moana. He also wrote many works ranging from poetry to books full of his scientific research. One was his book of astronomical research and it described his theories about previously unexplained things that could be seen in the night sky. Some things it theorized were that the Moon was lit by the Sun instead of making its own light. It also proposed that the Moon could be eclipsed by the shadow of the Earth.  

[[Refractory]]

CATEGORIES: Materials

A refractory is a material that can stand high temperature. It is used in furnaces, kilns, incinerators and reactors. Materials to make refractory must be chemically and physically stable at high temperature, such as alumina, silica, magnesia and lime.

[[One-line diagram]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Diagrams

The one-line diagram (or single-line diagram) is a diagram that shows a three-phase power system in a simple way. It is used in many power-related applications. Each electrical element is represented by a unique symbol. Although it describes three-phase electricity, only one conductor is shown in the diagram.

[[Rotor (electric)]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Motors

A rotor is the part of an electric machine (motor or generator) that rotates. It rotates because of the torque developed by wires and magnetic field inside the machine.

[[Stator]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Motors

A stator is the part of a rotary system that does not move. It is the fixed, stationary part of an electric machine (motor or generator). The stator might act as the field magnet (working with the armature to create the spinning movement) or as the armature (receives influence from the moving field coils of the rotor).

[[Kabsa]]

CATEGORIES: Saudi Arabia, Middle Eastern foods

Kabsa is the national dish of Saudi Arabia. It is a dish made of rice and meat, cooked either separately or together. It can be made with spices and camel meat, lamb, chicken or fish. It is usually eaten for lunch and sometimes for dinner. Kabsa is often a dish for a group of people. The kabsa is normally served on a round metal dish placed on the floor and people eat with their right hand, although a spoon may be used. In Saudi Arabia there are many different ways to make kabsa. Kabsa is also eaten in other Middle Eastern countries such as Kuwait, Bahrain and other Gulf countriesGulf countries.

[[Uninterruptible power supply]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

An uninterruptible power supply (or uninterruptible power source; UPS) is an apparatus that provides electric power in an emergency when there is a problem with the normal electricity supply. It provides an almost instantaneous supply of electricity during any power failure. It is used normally to protect any sensitive hardware (computer, data center, telecommunication) in which if there is any disruption of power supply, it might easily damage that equipment.

UPS batteries are lead acid batteries that use gel sulfuric acid instead of the liquid sulfuric acid car batteries use. UPS batteries are sealed and have the property to store electricity and provide a consistent high surge DC current to a UPS system which converts it to a stabilized AC current. UPS batteries have a wide selection of dimensions and one of their main properties is that they do not leak or produce fumes. This is one of the most important reasons why they are used safely in houses, server rooms, data centers, manufacturing environments, hospitals, offices, and other poorly ventilated areas. These sealed lead-acid batteries can be found in some of the electronics stores or UPS specialized stores.

[[Faraday's laws of electrolysis]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Physical chemistry

Faraday's laws of electrolysis are a set of scientific laws used in chemistry. They are used to express magnitudes of electrolytic effects. They were first described by Michael Faraday in 1834.

The first law states that the mass of a substance produced by electrolysis is directly proportional to the quantity of the electricity that passes through the cell.

The second law says: since Q, F, and z are constants, the larger the value of M/z (equivalent weight) the larger m will be.

[[Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition]]

CATEGORIES: Control engineering

The Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) is a control system for various industrial processes. It is controlled by a computer to monitor and control all of the processes that exist in an industry. It is a large-scale controlling method which can include several sites over long distance.

[[Programmable logic controller]]

CATEGORIES: Control engineering

A programmable logic controller (PLC) is a digital system used to make electrical and mechanical processes become automated. PLC can be found in almost all of the heavy industries which require process and sequences. PLC contains a unique set of inputs and outputs.  The logic of PLC is programmed so that user can create a highly dedicated PLC working system for their intended purpose.

[[Nikki Sinclaire]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, English LGBT people, Former MEPs, LGBT politicians, MEPs for the United Kingdom, Politicians from London, Transgender and transsexual people

Nicole "Nikki" Sinclaire (born 26 July 1968) is a British politician. In June 2012, she started We Demand a Referendum (WDAR), a political party. She was a member of the United Kingdom Independence Party until 2010.

She was born in Nicholas Sinclaire in London.

[[Enterprise Center]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in the United States, Sports in St. Louis, Missouri, Buildings and structures in Missouri, 1994 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Missouri

Enterprise Center is a sports arena in St. Louis, Missouri. The arena opened on October 8, 1994, and is the current home to the St. Louis Blues of the National Hockey League (NHL). The arena was also home to Saint Louis University's men's basketball team from 1991 to 2008.

The arena was originally known as Kiel Center from 1994 to 2000 and Savvis Center from Aug 2000 to 2006. Scottrade acquired naming rights for the arena in September 2006.

The Scottrade Center has held many WWE events as well including: Badd Blood: In Your House, Survivor Series in 1998, the special live tribute episode of WWF Raw is War that aired after the night of Owen Hart's death, No Mercy in 2001, Judgment Day in 2007, Elimination Chamber in 2010, Royal Rumble in 2012 and Extreme Rules in 2013.

The arena was initially expected to be renamed as the TD Ameritrade Center by the end of 2017, once the purchase of Scottrade by TD Ameritrade closed. However, TD Ameritrade decided not to put its name on the arena. The team later reached a new deal with Enterprise Holdings, a company based in the St. Louis suburb of Clayton, Missouri that owns the Enterprise, National, and Alamo car rental companies. The deal was announced on May 21, 2018, with the name officially changing to Enterprise Center on July 1 of that year.

[[Capital One Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in the United States, Buildings and structures in Washington, D.C., 1997 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Washington, D.C.

Capital One Arena is a sports arena in Washington D.C. The arena opened on December 2, 1997, and is the current home to the Washington Capitals on the National Hockey League (NHL), Washington Wizards of the National Basketball Association (NBA), Washington Mystics of the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA), the Washington Valor of the Arena Football League, and the Georgetown University men's basketball team. The arena was also home to the Washington Power of the National Lacrosse League (NLL) from 2001 to 2002.

The arena was originally known as MCI Center from 1997 to 2006. It became Verizon Center in January 2006 when Verizon Communications acquired the naming rights for the arena. The name changed again in August 2017 when Capital One acquired naming rights.

Capital One Arena has held many WWE events as well including: SummerSlam in 2005, Cyber Sunday in 2007, Survivor Series in 2009 and WWE Capitol Punishment in 2011. Aside from WWE, the arena also hosted World Championship Wrestling (WCW)'s Starrcade pay-per-view in 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000.

[[Saadia Gaon]]

CATEGORIES: 9th century births, 942 deaths, Egyptian Jews, Jewish philosophers

Saʻadiah ben Yosef Gaon (882/892 – 942) was a Jewish religious scholar and philosopher.

He was born in al-Fayyūm, Egypt. When he was 28, he left Egypt and his wife and two sons, and traveled to Babylonia. There, he helped schools in many Jewish communities. After a while, he left Babylonia because he was not happy with the government.

As a religious scholar, he translated the Bible into Arabic and wrote many commentaries on it. He also wrote the first Hebrew dictionary and grammar dictionary, and many books on Talmudic law. One of his famous books is called Kitāb al-amānāt wa al-iʿtiqādāt ("Book of Beliefs and Convictions").

He died at the age of 63, in Baghdad.

[[Al-Battani]]

CATEGORIES: 858 births, 929 deaths, Arab people, Astrologers, Astronomers, Mathematicians, Muslims

Al-Battānī (other names include Albategnius, Albategni and Albatenius; born about 858 – died 929) was an Arab astronomer, astrologer and mathematician. He is considered an important astronomer and mathematician of the Islamic Golden Age. His discoveries about trigonometry were often quoted by medieval European astronomers; including by Copernicus. He was from Harran. His full name was Abū ʿAbd Allāh Muḥammad ibn Jābir ibn Sinān al-Raqqī al-Ḥarrānī al-Ṣābiʾ al-Battānī.

[[Kingsborough Community College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in New York City, Brooklyn, 1963 establishments in New York (state)

Kingsborough Community College is a community college in Brooklyn, New York. It is part of the City University of New York's university system. It is located in Manhattan Beach. It was built in 1963. It has around 38,000 students. It has a private beach which is open during the summer.

[[TD Garden]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in the United States, Boston Celtics, Buildings and structures in Boston, Massachusetts, 1995 establishments in the United States, 1990s establishments in Massachusetts

TD Garden is a sports arena in Boston, Massachusetts. The arena opened on September 30, 1995, and is the current home to the Boston Bruins of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association (NBA).

The arena was originally known as FleetCenter from 1995 to 2005. TD Banknorth acquired the naming rights for the arena on March 3, 2005. The name was changed to TD Banknorth Garden on July 1, 2005.

TD Garden has held many WWE events as well including: WrestleMania XIV in 1998, King of the Ring in 2000, Royal Rumble in 2003, SummerSlam in 2006, Survivor Series in 2008, Royal Rumble in 2011, Night of Champions in 2012, and Survivor Series in 2013.

[[Gagra]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Greek cities, Abkhazia, Settlements in Georgia (country), Spa towns

Gagra (Abkhaz and Гагра; გაგრა) is a town in Abkhazia. It covers an area of about 5 kilometres. It is located on the northeastern coast of the Black Sea, at the base of the Caucasus Mountains. The moderate climate makes it a popular tourist resort.

Gagra is the centre of the Gagra District. It is located in the western part of Abkhazia. The river Psou serves as a border with Krasnodar Kray of Russia.

[[KeyBank Center]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in New York, Sports in Buffalo, New York, 1996 establishments in New York (state)

The KeyBank Center is a sports arena in Buffalo, New York. The arena opened on September 21, 1996, and is the current home to the Buffalo Sabres of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the Buffalo Bandits of the National Lacrosse League (NLL).

The arena was originally known as Marine Midland Arena from 1996 to 1999 and as HSBC Arena from 2000 to 2011. First Niagara Bank acquired the naming rights for the arena in 2011. The arena name next changed after KeyBank bought First Niagara Bank in 2016. Outside signs began to show the new name in August of that year, with the name change to "KeyBank Center" becoming official on September 19.

KeyBank Center has held many WWE events as well including: The Great American Bash in 2005, Armageddon in 2008, Night of Champions in 2011, and WWE Battleground in 2013.

[[John Michael Montgomery]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Singers from Kentucky, Country musicians, American singer-songwriters, Warner Bros. Records artists

John Michael Montgomery (born 1965) is a singer from the U.S. state of Kentucky. He sings and writes country music. He has been a singer since 1991.

[[KatieJane Garside]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, British folk musicians, English singer-songwriters, Living people, Singers from London, British rock singers

KatieJane Garside (born Katrina Jane Garside; 8 July 1968) is an English singer-songwriter. She first became known as the singer of the indie rock band Daisy Chainsaw. Garside is now the singer of Ruby Throat.

[[Taiwan Power Company]]

CATEGORIES: Economy of Taiwan, Electric power companies

Taiwan Power Company (Taipower; 台灣電力公司) is a company owned by the government of the Republic of China. It provides electricity to Taiwan, including the islands of Penghu, Kinmen and Lienchiang. The company was established on May 1946.

[[Steam turbine]]

CATEGORIES: Machines

A steam turbine is a machine that gets thermal energy from pressurised steam. It uses the energy to do mechanical work by rotation. It is usually connected to a generator to produce electricity. The heat to produce steam comes from burning a fuel such as coal, from burning trash in an incinerator, from the waste heat of other industrial processes, from a nuclear reactor, or from a natural source such as sunlight or geothermal heat.

[[Surface condenser]]

CATEGORIES: Boilers

A surface condenser is a device in a power station that changes the steam used by a steam turbine back into water. The steam is then used again to turn the turbine after being evaporated inside boiler. It can also be used in other applications and different types of industries.

[[Pulverizer]]

CATEGORIES: Machines

A pulverizer is a machine used to grind different types of material. This is done so that the material will be able to be used or can be easily transported. An example of a material that can be grinded is coal.

[[Battery charger]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Batteries, Science

A battery charger is a device that makes a used battery able to be used again. It works by forcing electric current into it from the opposite polarity of the battery. However, only rechargeable batteries can be recharged with a battery charger.

Battery chargers can be found in many forms, such as for mobile phone batteries, an electric vehicle charger, and a laptop battery charger (adapter).

[[Adobe Premiere Elements]]

CATEGORIES: Adobe software

Adobe Premiere Elements is an editing software that allows users to edit videos and make home-made movies, using the provided options.

[[Recloser]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A recloser is a circuit breaker which can be closed automatically after the breaker has been opened because of electric fault. Because many faults in power systems fix themselves after they happen, the installation of recloser ensures more continuity of power and higher availability for electricity supply to the load.

[[Geotechnical investigation]]

CATEGORIES: Geology

A geotechnical investigation is a process to analyze and measure the quality of the rock and soil at the site where people plan to build any construction work. By knowing the soil and rock property below the planned construction site, the exact foundation material for the construction building can be properly designed to match with the character of the soil below it so that the building can stand strongly above the examined soil.

[[Aesop Rock]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, American rap musicians from New York, Living people, Musicians from New York

Ian Mathias Bavitz (born June 5, 1976), better known as Aesop Rock, is an American hip hop artist and music producer who lives in San Francisco, California. He was born in New York.

[[Down payment]]

CATEGORIES: Business

A down payment is the amount that being paid first at the beginning of any business transaction and settle the remaining payment through installments. This payment is made so that the buyer or customer can own the goods being sold or for the case of ordering in a factory (for highly-customized goods), the goods can be put into the production line and start to be produced first.

How much a customer needs to pay for the down payment is different in each country and each business type. The amount of down payment and the remaining payment are usually agreed upon at the time of making the purchase or order..

[[Purchase order]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Documents

A purchase order (PO) is a document stating the wish of a buyer to purchase something from a seller. It indicates all of the exact details of the goods the buyer intends to buy. When the seller accepts the purchase order, it forms a legal contract between both sides. This means that the seller is required to provide the goods in exchange for payment by the buyer.

[[Trichromacy]]

CATEGORIES: Color, Vision

Trichromacy is a type of color vision. Animals with this kind of vision see colors with cone cells in their retina. The three types of cone cell are sensitive to different wavelengths of light. Color is constructed in the brain's visual cortex. Humans and many other primates have full color vision. Most mammals do not, because they have only one or two types of cone cells, which do not discriminate so many distinct wavelengths. Most other vertebrates such as lizards and birds have four types of cone cells, hence can discriminate more colors than humans can.

[[PPG Paints Arena]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in Pennsylvania, Sports in Pittsburgh, 2010 establishments in the United States, 2010s establishments in Pennsylvania

PPG Paints Arena is a sports arena in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The arena opened on August 18, 2010, and is the current home of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League (NHL). It was also home to Pittsburgh Power of the Arena Football League (AFL) from the team's 2011 entry into the league until its demise in 2014.

When it opened, the arena was known as Consol Energy Center, with the naming rights owned by Consol Energy. In October 2016, Consol Energy opted out of its naming rights contract, and PPG Industries took over the naming rights, choosing to promote its paint brand on the arena. The first Penguins game played in the arena was on October 7, 2010 in a 3–2 loss against their rivals, the Philadelphia Flyers.

The arena hosted the Frozen Four in 2013. The first event that happened in the arena was a concert by Paul McCartney. The arena hosted the WWE's Royal Rumble on January 26, 2014.

[[Take Me Home]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums, One Direction albums, Pop albums

Take Me Home is the second album by British-Irish boy band One Direction. It was released or made available to the public on 9 November 2012.

[[Bad Moon]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 horror movies, 1996 thriller movies, 1990s horror thriller movies, American horror movies, American thriller movies

Bad Moon is a 1996 American horror and thriller movie. The movie is about strange events, full moons and werewolves. Mariel Hemingway plays attorney Janet Harrison. The movie was distributed by Warner Bros.. The movie was rated R for gore, horror, violence and some language. They had earlier given a higher rating based on graphic violence, which was then cut from the movie. When released, the movie received terrible reviews. Bad Moon was a huge box office flop.

[[4.3.2.1]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s crime thriller movies, 2010s crime drama movies, 2010 movies

4.3.2.1 is a British 2010 crime-thriller movie. The movie is about four friends, all 19, during the late 2000s decade. One of them (Shannon) has one bad day after another. She gets mugged, assaulted and rejected. Another, Joanne (or simply Jo, played by Emma Roberts), works inside a 24-hour retail store. The reviews mixed. It was released in June 2010.

[[William Allain]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2013 deaths, US Democratic Party politicians, Governors of Mississippi

William A. "Bill" Allain (February 14, 1928 – December 2, 2013) was an American politician. He held office as the 58th Governor of Mississippi as a Democrat from 1984 to 1988.

Allain died December 2, 2013 in Jackson, Mississippi from unknown causes, aged 85.

[[Hail to the Chief]]

CATEGORIES: Songs, History of the United States, Presidency of the United States

"Hail to the Chief" is the official Presidential Anthem of the United States. The song is played only when the President of the United States appears during public appearances. It is also played during funerals of former Presidents such as during Ronald Reagan's funeral. This song is under the public domain.

[[Lincoln College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1427 establishments, 1420s establishments in Europe, 15th century establishments in England

Lincoln College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. Its full name is "The College of Blessed Mary and All Saints, Lincoln". The college was founded in 1427 by Richard Fleming, Bishop of Lincoln. It is the 9th oldest college at the University. 

[[Cognitive neuropsychology]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Cognitive neuropsychology is a subject in psychology. It is a combination of biology and cognitive psychology. These psychologists study human behavior and knowledge. This is a growing subject that is used more and more everyday. Unlike cognitive neuroscience, cognitive neuropsychology pays attention to the mind rather than the brain.

Many scientists have worked to make cognitive neuropsychology. Their findings have created an understanding of the brain and how humans learn and do things.  Most of these scientists were not psychologists, but are known for their contributions to psychology. The technology today also helps advance what is known.  With brain imaging and other methods the brain can now be visualized. Cognitive neuroscience can also be broken into different topics such as memory, attention, language, and emotion.

[[Sulukta]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Asia, Geography of Kyrgyzstan

Sulukta is a small town in Kyrgyzstan. Over 20 thousand people live in Sulukta.

[[Surface mining]]

CATEGORIES: Mining

Surface mining is a method which operates on the surface of the land. Machines remove the overburden to get at material, such as coal, below it. 

Surface mining  includes strip mining, open-pit mining (UK: open cast mining) and mountaintop removal mining. It is mining in which soil and rock overlying the mineral deposit are removed. It is the opposite of underground mining, in which the overlying rock is left in place, and the mineral removed through shafts or tunnels.  

Surface mining gained popularity throughout the 20th century, and became the main way of coal mining in places such as Appalachia and America's Midwest.

In most forms of surface mining, heavy equipment, such as earthmovers, first remove the overburden. Next, huge machines, such as dragline excavators or Bucket-wheel excavators, extract the mineral.

[[Control system]]

CATEGORIES: Control engineering

Control system is a device or system that gives commands to manage the behavior of other devices or systems. The commands can be set or programmed, and the output is determined by the input. A control system is represented by a logic diagram.

[[Cyclonic separation]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

Cyclonic separation is a process to take out all of the unwanted particles from air, gas, or steam. The process uses a process called vortex separation and does not use filtering. It uses rotational and gravitational force to separate the unwanted particles. The process is done in a device called cyclone separator or "cyclone". The word "cyclone" in meteorology (weather) is a force in which the air's movement spirals inward.

[[Boiler]]

CATEGORIES: Boilers

A boiler is a device used to heat water or other fluids until it boils or before boiling point. The heated or vaporized fluid is then used for various process applications, such as central heating, power generation, cooking, and sanitation.

[[Bulk material handling]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

Bulk material handling is a field of engineering. It involves designing equipment to handle dry materials in their bulk form. It consists of stationary machinery, mobile equipment and storage facilities. The purpose of this process is to transport materials from one place to another place or places.

[[SAP Center at San Jose]]

CATEGORIES: Stadiums in the San Francisco Bay Area, Sports buildings in California, Sports in San Jose, California, 1993 establishments in California

The SAP Center at San Jose is a sports arena in San Jose, California. The arena opened on September 7, 1993, and is the current home to the San Jose Sharks of the National Hockey League (NHL) and the San Jose Sabercats of the Arena Football League (AFL).

The arena was originally known as San Jose Arena from 1993 to 2001, the Compaq Center at San Jose from 2001 to 2002, and as HP Pavilion at San Jose from 2002 to 2013. SAP acquired the naming rights for the arena in June 2013 and renamed the arena SAP Center at San Jose.

The arena has held many WWE events as well including: the Royal Rumble in 1998, SummerSlam in 2001, and The Great American Bash in 2007.

[[Honda Center]]

CATEGORIES: Sports buildings in California, 1993 establishments in California

The Honda Center is a sports arena in Anaheim, California. The arena opened on June 19, 1993, and is the current home to the Anaheim Ducks of the National Hockey League (NHL) and will be the home of the future Los Angeles Kiss of the Arena Football League (AFL) in 2014.

The arena was originally known as Pond of Anaheim in 1993 and as Arrowhead Pond of Anaheim from 1993 to 2006. Honda acquired the naming rights for the arena in October 2006.

The arena has held many WWE events as well including: WrestleMania XII in 1996, the Royal Rumble in 1999, and WrestleMania 2000 in 2000.

[[Pat Tanaka]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, People from Honolulu, Sportspeople from Hawaii, Former WWE wrestlers

Patrick "Pat" Tanaka (born August 5, 1961) is an American professional wrestler.

He is best known for working with American Wrestling Association where he was one half of Badd Company and the World Wrestling Federation where he was one half of The Orient Express.

While in AWA, he won the AWA World Tag Team Championship as a member of Badd Company on March 19, 1988 when they defeated the Midnight Rockers. The team held the championships for a year and the lost them to the Olympians (Brad Rheingans and Ken Patera) on March 25, 1989.

In mid-March 2006, he opened Fighting Spirit Dojo in Minster, Ohio along with shoot-fighter Jody Poff. He teaches judo to more than 50 students while Poff teaches a group of mixed-martial-artists. 

[[Cranes (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 1989, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups

Cranes are a British dream pop band. Their most well known song is perhaps "Shining Road". They formed in 1985 in Portsmouth, England. The band's founding members were singer Alison Shaw, her brother Jim Shaw and guitarist Kevin Dunford. Dunford left the band in 1990. He was replaced by Mark Francombe who had such diverse musical influences as Velvet Underground, Can and Thobbing Gristle. He also liked building experimental electronic devices to alter his guitar-sound as well as wearing experimental hair. In 1989 their 6-track EP Self Non Self was released by Bite Back. A further guitarist, Matt Cope, was recruited. In 1990 they released an EP called Inescapable. It was their first release on the record label Dedicated. Later in 1990 they released another EP, Espero. 1991 saw the release of Tomorrows Tears followed by Adoration.

Their first album, Wings of Joy, was released in 1991. It reached number fifty-two in the UK Album Chart. In 1992 they opened 90 shows for The Cure on the U.S. and European legs of their "Wish" world tour. During a break from this tour their second album Forever was written and recorded and was released in 1993. It got to number forty in the UK. The single "Jewel" reached number twenty-nine in the UK Singles Chart. It was a collaboration with The Cure and became Cranes best-selling single.

Their third album Loved was released in 1994. Three singles were released from the album: "Lilies", "Shining Road", and "Beautiful Friend". In 1996 Cranes released 10,000 copies of La Tragédie d'Oreste et Électre. This album, based on a Jean-Paul Satre work, Shaw recites entirely in French. The next year Population 4 was released. It was their last album on Dedicated.

In 1997 the band broke up. In 2000 they reformed. They released Future Songs in 2001. In 2002 they performed before The Cure at Hyde Park. They released an EP called Submarine. Only 2000 copies of it were made. There were eight songs on it. All of them were remixes. In 2004 Particles and Waves was released. Cranes performed as the opening act for The Cure at the Move Festival. In 2007 Cherry Red Records released Wings of Joy again. Seven extra songs were on it. In 2008 they released an album called Cranes on their record label Dadaphonic. Pitchfork gave it a score of 7.2 out of 10. In 2009 Loved was released again by Cherry Red Records. There were seven extra songs on it.

[[Zola Jesus]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, American singer-songwriters, Living people, Singers from Phoenix, Arizona, Writers from Phoenix, Arizona, Writers from Wisconsin, Singers from Wisconsin

Nika Roza Danilova (born April 11, 1989), better known as Zola Jesus, is an American singer-songwriter. She has released three albums.  

[[Bowser Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 2002, Mario series characters

Bowser Jr. is a character from the Mario video game series. He is the son of Bowser and prince of the Koopas. He is known for inventing machines, painting graffiti, and doing what he can to make his father proud. He first appeared in Super Mario Sunshine. Since then, he has become a main character and appears in most of the Mario video game series.

[[Matt Bloom]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Jewish American sportspeople, Sportspeople from Massachusetts

Matthew Jason "Matt" Bloom (born on November 14, 1972) is an American professional wrestler. He currently works for the WWE under the ring name, Tensai.

He also wrestled under the ring names Prince Albert (or simply Albert) and A-Train in his early days of the WWF/E. He also competed under the ring name Giant Bernard during his tenure in Japan.

[[Battle of the Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 in Europe, 1940s in the Netherlands, Battles involving France, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving the Netherlands, Battles involving the United Kingdom, European battles of World War II, May 1940 events

The Battle of the Netherlands (Slag om Nederland) was part of the German invasion of France and the Low Countries (Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands) during World War II. The battle lasted from 10 May 1940 until the main Dutch forces surrendered on the 14th. Dutch troops in the province of Zealand continued to fight the until 17 May, when Germany occupied the whole nation.

The Battle of the Netherlands was one of the first major uses of paratroopers to land near important targets before ground troops reached the area. The German Luftwaffe used paratroopers to capture several major airfields in the Netherlands.

The battle ended soon after the terrible bombing of Rotterdam by the German Luftwaffe. The Germans threatened to bomb other large Dutch cities if Dutch forces refused to surrender. The Dutch surrendered to prevent other cities from being destroyed. The Netherlands was occupied by Germany until 1945, when Dutch territory was freed.

[[Earl Sweatshirt]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, American musicians, Living people

Thebe Neruda Kgositsile (born February 24, 1994), better known by his stage name Earl Sweatshirt, is an American rapper and record producer from Los Angeles, California. Kgositsile was originally known by the moniker Sly Tendencies when he started rapping, but soon changed his name when Tyler, the Creator invited him to join his hip hop collective Odd Future in late 2009.

He gained recognition and critical praise for his debut mixtape, entitled Earl, which released in March 2010 when he was just 16 years old. Shortly after its release, his mother sent him to a boarding school in Samoa for at-risk teens for a year and a half. He was unable to record music during his tenure there, but returned to Los Angeles in February 2012, just before his eighteenth birthday. Kgositsile rejoined Odd Future and started producing new music, releasing his debut studio album Doris in August 2013.

His second album, I Don't Like Shit, I Don't Go Outside: An Album by Earl Sweatshirt followed in March 2015, and his third, Some Rap Songs, released in November 2018. His projects have all received widespread critical praise. He is currently signed to Columbia Records as well as his independent label Tan Cressida.

[[Edward Teller]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 2003 deaths, American physicists, Hungarian Jews, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Budapest, Refugees from Nazism, Theoretical physicists

Edward Teller (January 15, 1908 – September 9, 2003) was an American theoretical physicist. He was born in Budapest, the capital city of Hungary. At the time Hungary was called Austria-Hungary. He is known as "the father of the hydrogen bomb".

[[Galahad]]

CATEGORIES: Arthurian legend, Characters in written fiction, Fictional knights

Sir Galahad is a character from Arthurian legend- a knight of the Round Table and the son of Sir Lancelot. Legend says that Galahad searched for and later found the Holy Grail earning him the name 'The Grail Knight', as he was the only one on earth considered by God worthy of finding the Holy Grail. It is said that when he drank from the grail, he was surrounded by light and ascended to heaven.His uncle was king Pelle and Galahad's father was actually Sir Lancelot. 

Galahad was also very noble and loyal, and was reknowned as a talented swordsman. Galahad was known as the perfect knight.

[[Chesapeake Bay Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: Bridges in the United States, 1952 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Maryland

The Chesapeake Bay Bridge (called the Bay Bridge by locals) is a bridge that crosses Chesapeake Bay, on the eastern coast of the United States. The bridge is 4.3 long. It serves as a connecting route between the eastern and western shores of Maryland. The bridge was named after William Preston Lane Jr., the governor at the time that the building of the bridge was ordered.

[[Ritwik Ghatak]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1976 deaths, Indian actors, Indian writers

Ritwik Kumar Ghatak (4 November 1925 – 6 February 1976) was a Bengali Indian filmmaker, scriptwriter and actor. He was born in Dhaka in East Bengal. He wrote his first play,  Kalo sayar, in 1948. In 1951, Ghatak joined the Indian People's Theatre Association (IPTA).  Ghatak acted in the 1950 film Chinnamul. In 1952 Ghatak completed his first movie, Nagarik. It was not released until 1977. Ghatak wrote the 1958 Hindi film Madhumati with Rajinder Singh Bedi.

[[Personality]]

CATEGORIES: Human behavior, Branches of psychology

Personality is a term that  describes traits a person shows consistently at different times and in different situations.  If we understand a person's personality we may be able to predict their behavior in many situations.  Predictability makes it possible to explain and understand behavior.  A person's personality can often suggest their internal thoughts, feelings, and behaviors.  Intrapersonal functioning is a term used to describe the stable processes that underlie these thoughts, feelings, and behaviors.  Gordon Allport defined personality as a "dynamic organization inside a person, of psychophysical systems that create the person's characteristic patterns of behavior, thoughts and feelings."

[[Ming-Na Wen]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Chinese movie actors, Chinese television actors, Chinese stage actors, Chinese voice actors, Living people

Ming-Na Wen (born November 20, 1963) is a Chinese actress. She is known for doing the voice of Fa Mulan in the Disney film 1998 Mulan and Mulan II. She played Jing-Mei Chen in ER. Wen plays Agent Melinda May in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.

Wen was born in Hong Kong. Her name means "enlightenment". When she was a child she moved to the United States. In 1995 she married Eric Michael Zee. She lives with him in California.

[[Bay Bridge]]

Bay Bridge may refer to:

[[August Alsina]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, African American musicians, Living people, Singers from Louisiana, Hip hop musicians

August Anthony Alsina Jr. (born September 3, 1992) is an American hip-hop singer. He was born in New Orleans. He released his first mixtape in 2011. In August 2013 he was signed to Def Jam Recordings. His first EP Downtown: Life Under the Gun was released by Def Jam that month. It reached number 68 in the Billboard 200. His first album is going to be released in 2014.

[[Representational state transfer]]

CATEGORIES: Technology

Representational  state transfer (REST) is a programming architectural implementation intended to increase the efficiency of communication in computing systems.  It embodies the idea that the best way to share large amounts of data between multiple parties is to make that data available on-demand by sharing references to that data rather than a complete copy of the data itself.  Systems which implement REST are called 'RESTful' systems.

An example of a non-RESTful real-world system would be the traditional home movie collection.  In order to have access to any given movie, the library owner must obtain a physical copy of it.  This results in substantial waste as more copies are in existence than are in use at any given moment.  Also, the time required to add new titles to the library is generally non-trivial.  Streaming video is the RESTful counterpart to the home library.  Instead of having a complete copy of every movie stored in the home, the movie is referred to by its title only and the content of the movie is streamed on demand.

The World Wide Web is the largest example of a RESTful system today. Physical libraries are its non-RESTful equivalent.  Instead of sending a physical electronic copy of every digital resource to each person or library, we assign each resource a URL identifier "http://example.com", then access the actual content via the Internet rather than retrieving a local copy from an optical disk or a hard drive.

REST architecture can be applied in other contexts.  For example, consider two companies which want to share multiple gigabytes of information that constantly changes.  Sending a complete copy of their databases to each other (even via the internet) on a regular basis is a wasteful and time-consuming process.  This method of sharing information is similar to the library example previously given.  Instead, the companies can share database IDs with each other, perhaps even assigning each item in the database its own URL.  When one company wants to query the database for price of a particular item belonging to the other company, it can then retrieve the data for that specific inventory item.

[[Julie Christmas]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American rock singers, Year of birth missing (living people)

Julie Christmas (born December 25, 1975) is an American musician. She was the lead singer of the rock band Made Out of Babies and the metal band Battle of Mice. Christmas released three albums with Made Out of Babies. They broke up in 2012. Christmas sung on "Generation of Ghosts" on Mouth of the Architect's 2008 album Quietly. In 2010, Christmas released her first solo album The Bad Wife on CD and vinyl.

[[Bernie Kopell]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

[[Margery Mason]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2014 deaths, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, Actors from London

Margery E. Mason (27 September 1913 – 26 January 2014) was a British actress and director. She is known for her roles in The Princess Bride and in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. 

[[Ahmed Fouad Negm]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2013 deaths, Egyptian poets, Poets, Activists, Musicians

Ahmed Fouad Negm (22 May 1929 – 3 December 2013) was an Egyptian vernacular poet. Negm is well known for his work with Egyptian composer Sheikh Imam, as well as his patriotic and revolutionary Egyptian Arabic poetry. Negm has been called "a bit of a folk hero in Egypt" or "el-Fagommi".

Negm was born in Sharqia, Egypt on 22 May 1929.

In 2007, Negm was chosen by the United Nations Poverty Action as Ambassador of the poor. Negm won the 2013 Prince Claus Award for ‘Unwavering Integrity’.

On 3 December 2013, Negm died at the age of 84 in Cairo, Egypt from a long-illness, aged 84.

[[Paul Aussaresses]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, French generals, People from Occitanie, World War II people

Paul Aussaresses (7 November 1918 – 4 December 2013) was a French Army general. He fought during World War II, the First Indochina War and Algerian War. His actions during the Algerian War, and later defense of those actions, caused considerable controversy. He was perhaps best known for wearing an eye patch since he lost an eye during battle. 

Aussaresses was badly criticized in 2000, when in an interview with the French newspaper Le Monde, he defended the use of torture during the Algerian war. He repeated the defense in an interview with CBS's 60 Minutes, further arguing that torture ought to be used in the fight against Al-Qaeda.

Aussaresses died on 4 December 2013 from natural causes in La Vancelle, France, aged 95.

[[William Ramsay]]

CATEGORIES: 1852 births, 1916 deaths, British chemists, Cancer deaths in England, Disease-related deaths in Buckinghamshire, Fellows of the Royal Society, Knights Commander of the Order of the Bath, Noble gases, People from Glasgow, Scottish scientists

ChemistrySir William Ramsay KCB  FRS (William Ramsay, Jr.; 2 October 1852 – 23 July 1916) was a Scottish chemist. Ramsay discovered the noble gases. He also helped discover several elements that are on our periodic table today. He received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1904 "in recognition of his services in the discovery of the inert gaseous elements in air" (along with Lord Rayleigh).

[[Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1852 births, 1919 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, Dutch academics, Dutch chemists, Dutch Nobel Prize winners, People from Rotterdam

ChemistryJacobus Henricus van 't Hoff, Jr. (30 August 1852 – 1 March 1911) was a Dutch chemist. He was the first winner of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1901. van 't Hoff studied the active principles of chemical kinetics, chemical equilibrium, osmotic pressure, and stereochemistry.

[[Julius Lothar Meyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1830 births, 1895 deaths, Deaths from tuberculosis, German chemists, People from Lower Saxony, Periodic table

Julius Lothar von Meyer (August 19, 1830 – April 11, 1895) was a German chemist. He worked with Dmitri Mendeleev and helped him draw up the first periodic table of chemical elements. He also worked with Robert Bunsen.

[[Battle of Aachen]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 in Europe, 1940s in Germany, European battles of World War II, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving the United States, Aachen, October 1944 events

The Battle of Aachen was a major battle of Second World War. It was fought by American and German forces in and around Aachen, Germany, between 2–21 October 1944. The city was part of the Siegfried Line, the main defence line on Germany's western border. The Allies had hoped to capture it quickly and move into the Ruhr area.

Most of Aachen's civilian population was moved out before the battle began. Much of the city was destroyed and both sides had heavy losses. It was one of the largest urban battles fought by U.S. forces in World War II.

It was the first city in Germany to be captured by the Allies. The battle ended with a German surrender, but their defense slowed down Allied plans to advance into Germany.

[[Danilo Medina]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Presidents of the Dominican Republic, Current national leaders

Danilo Medina Sánchez (born November 10, 1951) is a Dominican politician. He was the President of the Dominican Republic from 2012 to 2020.

[[Sophia Bush]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Pasadena, California, 1982 births, Living people

Sophia Bush (born July 8, 1982) is an American television and movie actress. She has also directed. Movies in which she appeared include John Tucker Must Die. Television programs in which she appeared include Chicago Hope, Chicago PD and "One Tree Hill". Bush was born in Pasadena, California.

[[Hongkong Electric Company]]

CATEGORIES: Electric power companies, Hong Kong

Hongkong Electric Company (HKC; 香港電燈有限公司) is an electricity generation company in Hong Kong, People's Republic of China.

[[Joaquín Balaguer]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 2002 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Presidents of the Dominican Republic, Lawyers

Joaquín Antonio Balaguer Ricardo (September 1, 1906 – July 14, 2002) was the President of the Dominican Republic. He served three non-consecutive terms for that office. His first term was from 1960 to 1962, for his second term from 1966 to 1978, and again for his third and final term from 1986 to 1996. In 2000, Balaguer decided to seek an eighth term as president he lost the election.

On July 14, 2002, Balaguer died of heart failure at Santo Domingo's Abreu Clinic at the age of 95.

[[CLP Group]]

CATEGORIES: Electric power companies, Hong Kong

CLP Group (CLP; 中電集團) is an electricity company in Hong Kong. Their business are power generation, power transmission and electricity selling.

[[Juan Bosch]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 2001 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, People with Alzheimer's disease, Presidents of the Dominican Republic, Historians, Educators, Writers

Juan Emilio Bosch Gaviño (30 June 1909 – 1 November 2001) was a politician, historian, short story writer, essayist, and educator. He was the first democratically elected President of the Dominican Republic in 38 years. He served as president from February through September of 1963. Before this, he had been the leader of the Dominican opposition in exile to the dictatorial regime of Rafael Trujillo for over 25 years. 

In 1934, he married Isabel García and had two children with her: Leon and Carolina. During Trujillo's dictatorship, Bosch was jailed for his political ideas, being released after several months. In 1938, Bosch managed to leave the country, settling in Puerto Rico.

Juan Bosch died on November 1, 2001 after a long hospitalization period in Santo Domingo. He was suffering from Alzheimer's disease and was hospitalized for respiratory failure. As a former President, he received the corresponding honors at the National Palace, and was buried in his hometown of La Vega.

[[Companhia de Electricidade de Macau]]

CATEGORIES: Electric power companies, Macau, Electricity

Companhia de Electricidade de Macau (CEM; 澳電; English: Macau Electricity Company) is an electricity company in Macau, China. Its main business is power generation, power transmission, power distribution and electricity selling in Macau.

[[Felicity Jones]]

CATEGORIES: English television actors, English movie actors, 1983 births, Living people

Felicity Rose Hadley Jones (born 17 October 1983) is a British television, stage and movie actress. She starred in movies including Brideshead Revisited (2008), Cemetery Junction (2009) and Rogue One (2016). Jones was born in Birmingham. Sources differ on her year of birth, with some saying 1983 and others saying 1984.

[[Blindfold]]

CATEGORIES: Clothing

A blindfold is a piece of cloth tied over a person's eyes. Sometimes a blindfold is made of material other than cloth. Blindfolds make it impossible to see. They are used for many different reasons: 

In art, Justice is sometimes made to look like a woman wearing a blindfold.

[[Everland]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks in Asia, South Korea, Tourism, Samsung

Everland is a theme park in Yongin, South Korea. It is about one hour's drive away from Seoul.

Everland is the largest theme park in South Korea. In 2012, it ranked 12th in the world by number of visitors. It had 6.6 million visitors according to Travel + Leisure magazine.

The park is 36 years old. It has many kinds of attractions, as well as a zoo called Safari World, and a water park named Caribbean Bay. Everland also has seasonal festivals throughout the year. Samsung Everland, a part of company of Samsung operates and manages the park and the surrounding area.

[[Chalet Girl]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 comedy movies, 2011 romance movies, 2010s romantic comedy movies, Austrian movies, British romantic comedy movies, English-language movies, German romance movies, German comedy movies

Chalet Girl is a 2011 British-German-Austrian romance-comedy movie. It is about introducing people, romance and various family matters. Felicity Jones plays Kim Matthews. Brooke Shields plays Caroline. Sophia Bush plays Chloe.

This movie got mixed reviews from the critics. It was released in the United States in October 2011.

[[Christian Benítez]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from respiratory failure, Ecuadorian footballers, People from Quito

Christian Rogelio Benítez Betancourt (May 1, 1986 – July 29, 2013), also known as Chucho, was an  Ecuadorian footballer who played as a forward for El Jaish of the Qatar Stars League at the time of his death.

On July 29, 2013, Benítez entered a hospital in Doha, Qatar because of a "strong pain" in his abdomen. He later went into respiratory failure. He died from complications leading to cardiac arrest at the age of 27.

[[Feature movie]]

CATEGORIES: Movies

A feature movie or feature film is a movie (also called a film or motion picture) with a run time long enough to be the main or only movie to fill a program at a movie theatre. A program is the set of shows that people are given for one admission ticket. A feature movie is therefore a movie that runs for long enough to be the main or only show in a program. According to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, American Film Institute, and British Film Institute, a feature movie runs for at least 40 minutes. The Screen Actors Guild states that it is 80 minutes or longer.

The majority of feature movies are between 70 and 210 minutes long. The Story of the Kelly Gang was the first feature movie based on length, and was released in Australia in 1906. The first feature-length movie based on a book was Les Misérables which was released in 1909.

Feature movie for children are usually between 70 and 105 minutes. Other early feature movies include a version of Oliver Twist (1912), Richard III (1912) and From the Manger to the Cross (1912).

[[The Invisible Woman]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 romance movies, 2013 drama movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, British romantic drama movies

The Invisible Woman is a 2013 romance-drama movie. The movie is about a secret mistress of Charles Dickens. Ralph Fiennes plays Dickens. Kristin Scott Thomas plays Catherine Ternan and Felicity Jones plays Nelly Ternan. This movie will be released beginning in early 2014 in the United Kingdom and United States.

[[Joana Raspall i Juanola]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Spanish writers, Centenarians, People from Barcelona

Joana Raspall i Juanola (1 July 1913 – 4 December 2013) was a Spanish writer and librarian. She was born in Barcelona on 1 July 1913. Juanola died on 4 December 2013 from natural causes, aged 100.

[[High-pass filter]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components

A high-pass filter is an electronic filter that passes the frequency component of a signal above a certain value (cutoff frequency). The frequency component below that certain value will be suppressed to almost zero.

[[Low-pass filter]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components

A low-pass filter is an electronic filter that passes the frequency component of a signal below a certain value (cutoff frequency). The frequency component above that certain value will be suppressed to almost zero.

[[Band-pass filter]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components

A band-pass filter is an electronic filter that passes the frequency component of a signal within a certain range value, where it has its lower cutoff frequency and upper cutoff frequency. The frequency component outside that range of value will be suppressed to almost zero. In low frequency applications (up to 100 KHz), passive filters are generally constructed using simple R.C. networks while higher frequency filters (above 100 KHz) are usually made from R.L,C components.

[[Band-stop filter]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic components

A band-stop filter or band-reject filter is an electronic filter that blocks the frequency component of a signal within a certain range value, where it has its lower cutoff frequency and upper cutoff frequency. The frequency component outside that range of value will be passed on.

[[Steam drum]]

CATEGORIES: Boilers

A steam drum is a part of a water-tube boiler. It is the place where water or steam gathers at the top of the boiler. It stores the steam produced in the water tube and it separates between steam and water mixture.

[[Water-tube boiler]]

CATEGORIES: Boilers

A water-tube boiler is a type of boiler in which water circulates in tubes heated by fire from outside. The fire is produced by the fuel being burned inside the furnace for the boiler.

[[Coal burner]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A coal burner is a device that burns fine coal which has been ground into smaller particles.

[[Superheater]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A superheater is a device that changes saturated steam into dry steam. Dry steam is used in various industrial processes.

[[Heat exchanger]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A heat exchanger is a device used to efficiently transfer heat from one fluid to another. The fluids may be separated to avoid direct contact or mixing.

[[Soot blower]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A soot blower is a device used to remove soot that has accumulated on the furnace tube of a boiler during combustion. Steam or air can be used to blow the soot.

[[Marianne Muellerleile]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from St. Louis, Missouri, 1948 births, Living people

Marianne Muellerleile (born November 26, 1948) is an American actress. She played Norma Bates (2000-2008) in the NBC soap opera Passions. In The Terminator in 1984, she also played a woman with a name similar to Arnold Schwarzenegger's confidant and love interest. Muellerleile was born in St. Louis, Missouri.

[[State Grid Corporation of China]]

CATEGORIES: China, Electric power companies

State Grid Corporation of China (SGCC; 国家电网) is a company owned by the government of the People's Republic of China which provides electricity to Northern China, Northeastern China, Eastern China, Central China and Northwestern China.

[[China Southern Power Grid]]

CATEGORIES: China, Electric power companies

China Southern Power Grid (中国南方电网) is a company owned by the government of the People's Republic of China. It provides electricity transmission and distribution to Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hainan and Yunnan provinces.

[[Excitation (magnetic)]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Excitation is a process to create a magnetic field from electric current. This process is used in electric machines (generators or motors) whose rotor spins in a magnetic field. This magnetic field can come from a permanent magnet or field coils. In the case of electric machine with field coils, a current must flow to the coil to generate the magnetic field, so that the field coils can act as a "magnet", like in the case of electric machine with permanent magnet. The device in which excitation happens is called the exciter.

[[Switchgear]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A switchgear is a combination of electrical switches, fuses or circuit breakers used to control, protect or isolate electrical equipment.

[[Jane Child]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from Ontario, 1967 births, Living people

Jane Child (also  Jane Richman; February 15, 1967) is a Canadian musician. She sang the song "Don't Wanna Fall in Love" which was #2 on Billboard Hot 100 in spring 1990. She also sang other hits. Child was born in Toronto, Ontario.

[[Don't Wanna Fall in Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 songs, Pop songs

"Don't Wanna Fall in Love" (also titled "Don't Want to Fall in Love") is a 1990 pop and romantic dance song. It peaked at #2 across the Billboard in spring of 1990. A new jack swing remix for the song was released later that year. The single is by Jane Child. This is the only Top 40 charting single from Child. In the United Kingdom, however, it peaked at only #22 due to Child not wanting to appear on a popular British television show for fear of being classified a sellout.

[[Ma Ying-jeou]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Harvard University alumni, Majors, New York University alumni, People from Hong Kong, Taiwanese military people, Presidents of the Republic of China

Ma Ying-jeou (馬英九) is a Taiwanese politician. He was the President of the Republic of China from 20 May 2008 to 20 May 2016.

[[British Hong Kong]]

CATEGORIES: History of Hong Kong

British Hong Kong (英屬香港) was a colony and British Dependent Territory of the United Kingdom. It was Hong Kong when it was controlled as part of the British Empire. The British governed Hong Kong from 1841 to 1997, except for a small amount of time when the Japanese took over Hong Kong during World War II. During the First Opium War in 1841, the British took over Hong Kong Island. The British took over the Kowloon Peninsula in 1860 and the New Territories in 1898.

[[Elizabeth Debicki]]

CATEGORIES: Australian movie actors, 1990 births, Living people, Actors from Paris, Actors from Melbourne

Elizabeth Debicki (August 1990) is an Australian actress. She played Jordan Baker in The Great Gatsby. Her career began in 2010. The actress was born in Paris, France.

[[Bastille (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s British music groups, English rock bands, Musical groups established in 2010, Musical groups from London, Musical quartets

Bastille are an English Indie rock band. They started in London in 2010. In February 2013, they released a single called "Pompeii". It was number one in Scotland and Ireland. It reached number two in Italy and the UK. They released their first album, Bad Blood, on 4 March 2013 in the United Kingdom. It went straight to number one in the UK Albums Chart. It was released in the US in September 2013. It reached number eleven in the United States' Billboard 200. It also reached the top ten in Ireland and Australia. 

Bastille have four members. Daniel Campbell Smith is the main singer. At first he was the only member. He writes all of the band's songs. Chris "Woody" Wood was the main drummer, until former drummer David Kendrick (formerly of Sparks, Gleaming Spires, and Devo) joined in 2016. Will Farquarson plays bass, keyboards, and acoustic guitar. Kyle Jonathan Simmons plays keyboards, bass, and percussion. Charlie Barnes has been a touring member since 2015 and plays guitar and keyboards.

[[Nicholle Tom]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Illinois, 1978 births, Living people

Nicholle Tom (born 23 March, 1978) is an American television program and movie actress. She played Maggie Sheffield in the sitcom The Nanny (1993 to 1999) and Ryce Newton in the Beethoven movies and related TV show. Her sister, Heather Tom, also acts. Nicholle Tom was born in Hinsdale, Illinois.

[[Mark LoMonaco]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from New York, Former WWE wrestlers, TNA wrestlers

Mark LoMonaco (born July 14, 1971) is an American professional wrestler. He currently works for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling where he competes under the ring name, Bully Ray.

He is also known for working with Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) from 1995 to 1999 under the ring name Buh Buh Ray Dudley and for World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment (WWF/E) under the name, Bubba Ray Dudley. He is known for being one-half of the tag team, Dudley Boyz (also known as Team 3D) along with Devon.

[[Tori Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Singer-songwriters from California, Living people

Victoria Loren "Tori" Kelly (born December 14, 1992) is an American singer and songwriter. She won America's Most Talented Kids in 2004. In 2010, she was on American Idol. She was not chosen as one of the final twenty-four contestants. On January 21, 2012, Kelly put a video on her YouTube channel of her singing "Thinkin Bout You" by Frank Ocean. A lot of people watched it. It now has over 17 million views. In May 2012, she released her first extended play Handmade Songs. Her manager is Scooter Braun. On November 1, 2013, Kelly sang at Ed Sheeran's concert at New York's Madison Square Garden. In an interview with BBC, Kelly said that Sheeran is "a really close friend". They have written a song together.

[[Ella Eyre]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, British R&B musicians, British soul musicians, English pop singers, People from Ealing, Singer-songwriters from London

Ella Eyre (born 1 April 1994) is a British singer-songwriter. She sang on Rudimental's single "Waiting All Night". It was number one in the UK Singles Chart in April 2013.

[[Freud's psychoanalytic theories]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Sigmund Freud (6 May 1856 – 23 September 1939) is considered to be the founder of the psychodynamic approach to psychology.  Psychodynamic therapy looks closely at the unconscious drives that motivate people to act in certain ways.

The role of the mind is something that Freud repeatedly talks about because he believes that the mind is responsible for both conscious and unconscious decisions based on drives and forces. Unconscious desires motivate people to act accordingly.  The id, ego, and superego are three aspects of the mind, which Freud believes, makes up a person’s personality.  “We are simply actors in the drama of our minds, pushed by desire, pulled by coincidence.  Underneath the surface, our personalities represent the power struggle going on deep within us” (Cash, Psychology for Dummies).

[[Jazz (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Louisiana, Former WWE wrestlers, People from Lafayette, Louisiana

Carlene Denise Moore-Begnaud (born August 27, 1973) is an American professional wrestler. She currently works for Women Superstars Uncensored under the ring name, Jazz.

She is best known for working with Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) as well as World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment. During her time in WWF/E, she was a two-time WWF/E Women's Championship. She is married to Rodney Begnaud who also competed in World Wrestling Entertainment under the ring name Rodney Mack.

[[Lungs (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 albums

Lungs is the first album by Florence and the Machine. It was released on 3 July 2009. The album went straight to number two in the UK Albums Chart. The album was nominated for the 2009 Mercury Prize. It won the MasterCard British Album award at the 2010 BRIT Awards. It has sold more than three million copies around the world.

[[Boo (character)]]

CATEGORIES: Mario series characters

Boos (japanese: テレサ Teresa) is a fictional ghost that appears in the Mario and Yoshi series of video games. Boos first appeared in Super Mario Bros. 3. Since then, they have become a common enemy in the Mario games. They sometimes appear as playable characters in the Mario spin-off games. In some games, such as Paper Mario, they help Mario during his adventure. They are named after the sound that a person might make when they want to scare someone ("boo!").

Boos most often attack the player by sneaking up behind the player while the player's back is turned to them. When the player looks at them, they will hide their faces. They cannot be defeated without certain items or abilities. Boo are voiced by Sanae Susaki.

[[Priscilla Renea]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from Florida, R&B musicians, 1988 births, Living people

Priscilla Renea (born September 14, 1988) is an American and soul musician. She released the single "Dollhouse" in August 2009. The song, however, failed to chart on Billboard Hot 100. It did, though, become a mild hit. Her debut album, Jukebox, got positive reviews from critics. Jukebox did not sell much beyond 3,000 copies in the United States, nor beyond 5,000 copies worldwide.

Renea was born in Vero Beach, Florida.

[[Marvins Room]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Drake songs, Rhythm and blues ballads

"Marvins Room" is a song by Drake. It is a dark and emotional song that tells a story of heartache, and a failed relationship. It is off his album Take Care. The song was so successful many artists made their own versions of the song, including: Lil Wayne, Chris Brown, JoJo, Trey Songz.

[[AMC (TV channel)]]

CATEGORIES: American television channels, Cable television, 1984 establishments in the United States

AMC is an American cable and satellite television channel. The channel is owned by AMC Networks and airs television shows and movies. AMC stands for American Movie Classics, which the channel was first based around. Currently is referred to as  AMC due to its primary shift from only movies to also featuring television shows.

[[Birdman (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, African American musicians, American rap musicians from Louisiana, Singers from New Orleans, Louisiana, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana

Brian Christopher Williams, better known by the stage name Birdman, is an American rapper. He is the co-founder of Cash Money Records with his brother. In 1997, he became part of a rap duo called Big Tymers. He was the mentor and father figure of rapper Lil Wayne and is currently one of the richest rappers in the U.S.. Birdman has a reported net worth of $160 million in 2014.

[[Division of Lyne]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Lyne is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It was set up in 1949, and named for Sir William Lyne, Premier of New South Wales at the time of Federation and a minister in early Australian governments. Lyne was asked by the first Governor-General, Lord Hopetoun to form the first Federal Government. Lyne did not have the support of other politicians, and so Edmund Barton became the first Prime Minister of Australia.

The division is on the Mid North Coast of New South Wales. It includes Port Macquarie, Taree, Wauchope, Laurieton, Wingham, Gloucester and parts of Kempsey.

[[Third Power]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Rap music, Hip hop albums

Third Power is a album by DJ Drama. Its lead single is "Oh My." The song features Wiz Khalifa, Fabolous and Roscoe Dash.

[[Kim Bum-soo]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean singers, 1979 births, Living people, R&B musicians, K-pop singers

Kim Bum-Soo (김범수; born January 26, 1979) is a South Korean R&B and soul singer. His first successful song was "One Day", released in early 2000. He became most famous for his song "I Want to See", which was used on the soundtrack of the drama Stairway to Heaven. He performed in the television program I Am a Singer in 2010.

[[Kalinga War]]

CATEGORIES: Wars, 260s BC, History of India

The Kalinga War was a war fought between the Mauryan Empire and the state of Kalinga. Kalinga was an important kingdom because it controlled the trade routes with Southeast Asia. Because of this, Ashoka, the Mauryan king, wanted to capture it. Therefore he lead his huge army to Kalinga in 262 BC.

According to Megasthenes, the Greek historian at the court of Chandragupta Maurya, the ruler of Kalinga had a powerful army comprising infantry, cavalry and elephants.

Although he won the war, Ashoka realized the futility of war. He saw the bloodshed and suffering of the soldiers' families. He vowed never to fight again. He converted to Buddhism and he dedicated his later life to help his subjects. He left the conquest after winning a war. He wrote inscriptions for wanting that his son and grandson also never to think about war. He decided to observe Dhamma (a common code of conduct). He was also inspired by the teachings of Buddha. He sent many Buddhist scholars to distant lands in order to propogate Dhamma.

[[Stereotype threat]]

CATEGORIES: Human behavior, Sociology

Stereotype threat is the risk of confirming a negative stereotype about a group to which one belongs. Claude Steele introduced this idea in 1995. Stereotype threat may reduce the performance of people who belong to a negatively stereotyped group.

[[Maslow's hierarchy of needs]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Maslow’s hierarchy of needs was created by American psychologist Abraham Maslow in 1943. Maslow suggested that human needs could be put into five levels.

[[Cyclone Bodil]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 in the United Kingdom, 2013 in Europe, Severe weather, 2013 in weather, 2013 in Sweden, 2010s in Belgium, 2013 in Germany, 2010s in the Netherlands, 2010s in Denmark, 21st century in Poland

Cyclone Bodil (also Cyclone Xaver) was a winter storm that affected Western Europe. This storm brought intense snowfall and strong wind to Sweden and the United Kingdom. Belgium, Germany, The Netherlands, Denmark and Poland also suffered from strong winds and downpours. Several people died. Most of them in Sweden.

[[Vitruvian Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1490, Works of art, Geometry

The Vitruvian Man is a drawing made by Leonardo da Vinci in about 1490. Around the drawing are notes based on the work of the architect Vitruvius.

The drawing is done in pen and ink on paper. It is of a male figure standing in two positions, that are superimposed (drawn over the top of each other). The figure's arms and legs are drawn in two different positions, while the rest of the body stays in one position. The figure is drawn standing inside both a circle and a square.

The drawing and text are sometimes called the Canon of Proportions or, less often, Proportions of Man. It is stored in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice, Italy. It is displayed only occasionally.

The drawing is based on the ideal proportions of a man's body, and how this relates to geometry. This relationship was described by the ancient Roman architect Vitruvius in Book III of his treatise De architectura. Vitruvius wrote the human figure was the main source of proportion among the Classical orders of architecture. He wrote that the ideal body should be eight heads tall. Da Vinci's drawing is traditionally named in honour of the architect.

[[WWE SmackDown! Here Comes the Pain]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 video games, PlayStation 2-only games, WWE video game series

WWE SmackDown! Here Comes the Pain is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ. The game was known as Exciting Pro Wrestling 5 in Japan.

It was released on October 27, 2003 in North America, November 7, 2003 in Europe and on January 29, 2004 in Japan. The game was the first in the WWE SmackDown! video game series and is the sequel to WWE SmackDown! Shut Your Mouth. It was the last game under the SmackDown! title and was followed by WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw.

[[Mary Lambert]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, American singer-songwriters, LGBT musicians, Living people, People from Everett, Washington

Mary Lambert (born May 3, 1989) is an American singer and songwriter. She is best known for singing on the rapper Macklemore's single "Same Love" from 2012. It sold over 2 million copies in the United States.

[[Solomon Asch]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1996 deaths, American psychologists, American Jews, Polish psychologists, Polish Jews

Solomon Eliot Asch (September 14, 1907 – February 20, 1996) was a Polish and American Gestalt psychologist. 

[[Beach House]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 establishments in the United States, Musical groups from Maryland, Indie rock bands, 21st-century establishments in Maryland

Beach House is a pair of dream pop musicians from Baltimore. The band started in 2004. Victoria Legrand sings their songs and plays keyboards. Alex Scally plays guitar and plays keyboards. Beach House have released four albums. 

[[Alloy wheels]]

CATEGORIES: Auto parts

Alloy wheels are automobile wheels that are made of an aluminum alloy instead of steel. Most new cars have alloy wheels, either as standard equipment or as an option. Older buses and large trucks almost never have alloy wheels, but they have recently become an option on newer models. The first alloy wheels were made of magnesium alloys, but these are no longer made because the magnesium alloys were too weak and would eventually crack.

[[Gene Clark]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 1991 deaths, American singer-songwriters

Harold Eugene "Gene" Clark (November 17, 1944 – May 24, 1991) was an American singer and songwriter. He started the folk rock band The Byrds in 1964. He wrote lots of The Byrds' most well known songs. They were very popular. In 1967 he released his first solo album, Gene Clark with the Gosdin Brothers. It was not successful. However he went on to make several more solo albums.

[[Abdel Fattah el-Sisi]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Egyptian military people, Egyptian Muslims, Generals, People from Cairo, Presidents of Egypt, African Union chairpersons

Abdel Fattah Saeed Hussein Khalil el-Sisi (born Cairo, 19 November 1954), is the President of Egypt since June 2014. 

Sisi was Deputy Prime Minister of Egypt from 16 July 2013 - 26 March 2014. He was Minister of Defence from 12 August 2012 until 26 March 2014 when he retired from the Army. Sisi ran for President in May 2014, and won against Hamdeen Sabahi. He has supported fighting radical Islam while President. He is also well known for negotiating a ceasefire between Israel and Palestine.

Sisi graduated from the Egyptian Military Academy in 1977 with a diploma in military sciences and was an Army officer for more than 30 years. He is married to Entissar Amer.

Sisi was appointed defense minister by Mohamed Morsi in 2012. After Morsi began to crack down on opposition in Egypt, protests broke out. In 2013, with the support of the military and Sisi, Morsi was ousted in Egypt's second revolution in the past three years.

He was voted TIME Magazine's Person of the Year in 2013 by the public, but lost to Pope Francis for the official title.

In 2019 and 2020, Sisi was the Chairperson of the African Union.

[[Pfalz D.III]]

CATEGORIES: German military aircraft, World War I aircraft

The Pfalz D.III is a biplane fighter aircraft. It was flown during World War I. It was a single-engine aircraft. It was very fast when diving. The Pfalz D.III was often used to attack observation balloons.

[[Haim]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 establishments in the United States, American pop music groups, Indie bands

HAIM (which is said like 'time' with a 'h' instead of a 't') is an American indie pop band. The members are sisters Alana, Danielle, and Este. They released their first album Days Are Gone on September 27 2013. The British newspaper The Guardian put the album at number twelve on their list of 2013's 40 best albums. They are often compared to Fleetwood Mac.

[[Martel, Lot]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Lot

Martel is a commune in the Lot department in south-western France.

The town has a distinctive sky-line with medieval towers. There is a museum containing items from Puy d'Issolud, a local Gallic archaeological site which has been identified as Uxellodunum, besieged by Julius Caesar in 51 BC.

Henry the Young King died here in 1183.

[[Rebirth (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 albums, Lil Wayne albums, Rap music

Rebirth is a studio album by Lil Wayne. It is his debut rap rock album. It was supported by the songs: "Prom Queen", "Knockout" (featuring Nicki Minaj), and "Drop The World" (featuring Eminem).

[[Swim Good]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Suicide

"Swim Good" is a song by Frank Ocean. It is from his mixtape Nostalgia,  Ultra. It is about a man who kills himself because of heartache. Frank Ocean references "808s & Heartbreak" by Kanye West.

[[Jane Goldman]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, English television producers, Screenwriters from London

Jane Loretta Anne Goldman (born 11 June 1970) is an English screenwriter and television producer. She was born in Hammersmith, west London. She wrote the screenplay for the 2012 movie The Woman in Black. She married Jonathan Ross in 1988. She has two daughters and a son with him. She lives with Ross in Hampstead Garden Suburb. She produces The Big Fat Quiz of the Year.

[[Novacane (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Songs about drugs

Novacane is a song by Frank Ocean. It is from his mixtape Nostalgia, Ultra. It is about a girl who works as a dentist and pornstar to get money for drugs. It is Ocean's first single. It is a PBR&B, neo soul, and alternative hip hop song.

[[WWE SmackDown! Shut Your Mouth]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 video games, PlayStation 2-only games, WWE video game series

WWE SmackDown! Shut Your Mouth is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ. The game was known as Exciting Pro Wrestling 4 in Japan. The Japanese version was published by Yuke's.

It was released on October 31, 2002 in North America, November 15, 2002 in Europe and on February 6, 2003 in Japan. The game was the first under the WWE name and is the sequel to WWF SmackDown! Just Bring It.

[[Thinkin Bout You]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 songs, R&B songs, Rhythm and blues ballads, LGBT songs, Torch songs

Thinkin Bout You is a ballad by Frank Ocean. It is from his debut album Channel Orange. The song is a torch song. It is dedicated to his male lover. Although the song was very successful worldwide it was still very personal to Ocean. The song was originally supposed to be from Shea Taylor for her EP, but ended up being Frank Ocean's song.

[[Kamala Harris]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, 2020 United States presidential candidates, 2020 United States vice-presidential candidates, 21st-century American politicians, African American lawyers, African American politicians, American lawyers, Politicians from Oakland, California, Politicians from San Francisco, United States senators from California, US Democratic Party politicians

Kamala Devi Harris (born October 20, 1964) is an American politician and lawyer. She is the 49th and current vice president of the United States. She served as a United States senator from California from 2017 until 2021. Before she took the position of senator, Harris was the attorney general of California from 2011 to 2017.

On January 21, 2019, Harris announced her candidacy for President of the United States in the 2020 election. She ended her campaign on December 3, 2019. After Joe Biden won the nomination, he picked Harris as his running mate for Vice President. They won the election on November 7, and were inaugurated on January 20, 2021, making Harris the highest ranking elected woman in American history.

[[Benedict Biscop]]

CATEGORIES: 620s births, 680s deaths, Roman Catholics, Anglo-Saxons

Benedict Biscop (627–690), also called Biscop Baducing, was an Anglo-Saxon nobleman, monk and abbot. He was the founder and benefactor of the Monkwearmouth-Jarrow Abbeys. He had been a thane of King Oswiu of Northumbria and an officer in his court. Benedict Biscop is probably best known for the library he created at Jarrow and for being the mentor of the Venerable Bede. He was venerated as a saint after his death.

[[Neon Jungle]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in the United Kingdom, British girl groups, British pop music groups, Musical groups disestablished in 2015, 2015 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Musical groups established in 2013

Neon Jungle were a British girl group. They started in early 2013. The members were Shereen Cutkelvin, Jess Plummer, Asami Zdrenka and Amira McCarthy.

On 8 August 2013, the band put a cover they sung of "We Can't Stop" by Miley Cyrus on their YouTube channel.

They released their first single "Trouble" on 1 September 2013. The song was written and produced by CocknBullKid and Benjamin Berry. It reached number twelve in the UK Singles Chart and four in the Scottish chart.

In November 2013, the band performed at the 2013 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show.

They released their second single "Braveheart" on iTunes in January 2014. It reached number four in the UK Singles Chart. 

The group separated in 2015.

[[Neo soul]]

CATEGORIES: Fusion music genres, R&B music, Soul music

Neo Soul is a genre (style) of music. It combines soul, hip hop soul, alternative hip hop and quiet storm. Some notable artists that make this kind of music are Frank Ocean, Adele, Beyonce, and Miguel. The term neo soul was created by the record producer Kedar Massenburg.

[[Qunu]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in South Africa, Villages in Africa

Qunu ˈk͡ǃuːnu is a small rural village in South Africa's Eastern Cape Province. It is 32 south-west of Mthatha on the road between Butterworth and Mthatha. 

Nelson Mandela spent his childhood here and had a retirement home there. On 15 December 2013, Mandela was buried in Qunu after a state funeral.

[[United States National Library of Medicine]]

CATEGORIES: Libraries in the United States, Buildings and structures in Maryland, Medical education, Medical and health organizations in the United States, National libraries

United States National Library of Medicine is a medical library in Bethesda, Maryland. It is operated by the United States Federal government. It is the largest medical library in the world.

[[Eastern Cape]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of South Africa, 1994 establishments in South Africa

The Eastern Cape is a province of South Africa. Its capital is Bhisho. Its two largest cities are Port Elizabeth and East London. It was formed in 1994. It was the home of the 1820 settlers. The central and eastern part of the province is the traditional home of the Xhosa people. 

This region is the birthplace of many famous South African politicians, such as Nelson Mandela, Oliver Tambo, Walter Sisulu, Govan Mbeki, Raymond Mhlaba, Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe, Chris Hani, Thabo Mbeki, Steve Biko and Charles Coghlan.

[[Scarling.]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 establishments in California, Indie rock bands, American rock bands, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups

Scarling is an American noise pop band. The members are Jessicka and her husband Christian Hejnal-Addams. They have released two albums. 

[[Roberto M. Levingston]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2015 deaths, Argentine generals, Presidents of Argentina

Roberto Marcelo Levingston Laborda (January 10, 1920 – June 17, 2015) was an Argentine politician. He was a general in the 

Argentine Army and president of Argentina from June 18, 1970 to March 22, 1971, during the Revolución Argentina period in Argentine history.

[[Hop Is Back]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 songs

"Hop Is Back" is a song by the rap musician Hopsin. It is from his album Knock Madness. In the song, he insults Kendrick Lamar and Kanye West.

[[Douglas Wilder]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, African American politicians, 1992 United States presidential candidates, American mayors, Governors of Virginia, People from Richmond, Virginia, US Democratic Party politicians, Lieutenant Governors of Virginia

Lawrence Douglas Wilder (born January 17, 1931) is an American politician. He served as the first African American to be elected as Governor of Virginia. He was the first African-American governor of any state in the United States since the 1870s during the Reconstruction of the United States.

[[DJ Drama]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop musicians, American rap musicians from Pennsylvania, 1978 births, Living people

DJ Drama is an American DJ and record producer. He has made albums and mixtapes. He is signed to T.I.'s Grand Hustle Records.

[[Deerhoof]]

CATEGORIES: Indie rock bands, Musical groups from San Francisco, 1990s American music groups, 1994 establishments in California, Musical groups established in 1994

Deerhoof is a noise pop band. It was started in San Francisco in 1994 by Rob Fisk and Greg Saunier. They have released twelve albums. The members of Deerhoof are now Satomi Matsuzaki, John Dieterich, Ed Rodriguez, and Greg Saunier.

[[Death and state funeral of Nelson Mandela]]

CATEGORIES: 2013, 2010s in South Africa, State funerals, Nelson Mandela, December events

Nelson Mandela died on 5 December 2013 at the age of 95, at his home in Houghton, Johannesburg, South Africa surrounded by his family after a prolonged lung infection. His death was announced by President Jacob Zuma. Reactions from governments, international organizations, and notable individuals, have gained worldwide media coverage.

[[Houghton Estate]]

CATEGORIES: Johannesburg

Houghton Estate (often simply called Houghton) is a rich suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. It is located north-east of the city center. Houghton Estate has been informally divided into two areas: Upper Houghton, and Lower Houghton. The most famous resident of Houghton Estate was Nelson Mandela. Mandela died here.

[[The Sound of Music Live]]

CATEGORIES: Musicals, English-language television programs, 2013 in the United States

The Sound of Music Live! was a live television production of the musical The Sound of Music. It was telecast on NBC Thursday evening December 5, 2013 between 8 and 11 p.m. ET. 

[[Ben Breedlove]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Deaths from cardiomyopathy, Internet celebrities, People from Austin, Texas

Benjamin Daniel Breedlove (August 8, 1993 – December 25, 2011) was an American Internet personality. He was from Austin, Texas. He was known for his blogs on YouTube. 

At an early age, Breedlove had been diagnosed with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). It is a condition in which the heart muscle becomes thick. Often, only one part of the heart is thicker than the other parts. The thickening can make it harder for blood to leave the heart, forcing the heart to work harder to pump blood. It also can make it harder for the heart to relax and fill with blood. 

On the night of December 25, 2011, he died of cardiac arrest at the age of 18.

[[Stan Tracey]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, English pianists, British jazz musicians, English composers, Musicians from London

Stanley William "Stan" Tracey CBE (30 December 1926 – 6 December 2013) was a British jazz pianist and composer. He was most influenced by Duke Ellington and Thelonious Monk. Tracey's best known recording is a suite (1965) inspired by Dylan Thomas's radio drama Under Milk Wood.

Tracey died from prostate cancer on 6 December 2013, aged 86. He was survived by two children.

[[Machete Kills]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 crime movies, 2010s action movies, American action movies, American crime movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Lionsgate movies, Movies about the illegal drug trade

Machete Kills is a 2013 action movie. The movie is the sequel to Machete. It is about a man named Machete who fights for the rights of immigrants. Danny Trejo plays Machete Cortez. Amber Heard plays Blanca Vasquez and Miss San Antonio. Michelle Rodriguez plays Luz/She. The movie received negative reviews. It did not make much money.

[[Danny Wells]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2013 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Canadian voice actors, Canadian composers, Actors from Montreal

Jack Westelman or Danny Wells (April 7, 1941 – November 28, 2013) was a Canadian-American actor and composer. He was known for his role as Charlie the bartender on The Jeffersons. He also portrayed Luigi in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show!.

Wells died on November 28, 2013 in Toronto, Ontario, aged 72.

[[The Jeffersons]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s American television series, 1975 American television series debuts, 1975 disestablishments, 1980s American black sitcoms, CBS network shows, English-language television programs, Television series set in New York City

The Jeffersons is an American sitcom starring Sherman Hemsley and Isabel Sanford. It is about an African-American couple who live in New York City. The series was first broadcast on T.A.T. Communications Company, from January 18, 1975 to July 2, 1985. It is one of the longest-running television series in television history.

[[Christopher Evan Welch]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Virginia, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Cancer deaths in California, Deaths from lung cancer

Christopher Evan Welch (September 28, 1965 – December 2, 2013) was an American actor of Broadway, movie, and television. One of his last movie appearances was in Steven Spielberg's Lincoln (2012).

Welch died of lung cancer  on December 2, 2013, aged 48, at a hospital in Santa Monica, California.

[[Barry Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from stroke, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, Actors from Birmingham

Barry Jackson (29 March 1938 – 5 December 2013) was an English movie and television actor. His movie roles include Ryan's Daughter, Barry Lyndon, Aces High, The Raging Moon, Mr. Love, Toscanini in His Own Words, and Wimbledon.

He died in London on 5 December 2013 from a stroke, aged 75.

[[Fred Bassetti]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American architects, Businesspeople from Seattle, Washington

Fred Bassetti FAIA, (January 31, 1917 – December 5, 2013) was an American architect, teacher, and a prime contributor to the regional approach to Modern architecture during the 1940s-1990’s.  His architectural legacy includes some of the Seattle area's more recognizable buildings and spaces.  The American Institute of Architects (AIA) described his role as a regional architect and activist as having made significant contributions to  “the shape of Seattle and the Northwest, and on the profession of architecture.” 

[[Colin Wilson]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2013 deaths, British esotericists, English science fiction writers, Cardiovascular disease deaths in England, Deaths from stroke, English philosophers, Mystics, People from Leicester, Writers from Leicestershire

Colin Henry Wilson (26 June 1931 – 5 December 2013) was an English novelist and writer. Wilson also wrote widely on true crime and criminology, mysticism, the paranormal, and other topics. In all, there are over 120 books, including some fiction. He preferred to call his philosophy new existentialism or phenomenological existentialism.

Wilson was interested in metaphysics and the occult. In 1971, he wrote a nonfiction book named The Occult: A History. In it, he talked about the beliefs of Aleister Crowley, George Gurdieff, Helena Blavatsky, Kabbalah, primitive magic, Franz Mesmer, Grigori Rasputin, and Paracelsus. He also wrote a biography of Crowley, Aleister Crowley: The Nature of the Beast. He also wrote biographies on other visionaries in spirituality and psychology. Some were about George Gurdjieff, Carl Jung, and Wilhelm Reich.

Wilson suffered a stroke in June 2012 and lost his ability to speak. He died in December 2013, aged 82.

[[Rob Cohen]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, American screenwriters, Movie directors from New York, Movie producers from New York

Robert "Rob" Cohen (born March 12, 1949) is an American movie director, producer, and screenwriter. He is known for directing the entire Fast and Furious movie series. He also directed A Small Circle of Friends, Dragon: The Bruce Lee Story, Dragonheart, Daylight, and xXx.

[[Jack Daniel]]

CATEGORIES: 1850 births, 1911 deaths, Deaths from infectious disease, People from Lynchburg, Tennessee, Businesspeople from Tennessee

Jasper Newton "Jack" Daniel (September 5, 1850 – October 10, 1911) was an American distiller and the founder of Jack Daniel's Tennessee whiskey.

Daniel died from an infectious case of blood poisoning at Lynchburg in 1911. The infection allegedly set up originally in a toe, which Daniel injured in kicking his safe in anger when he could not get it open early one morning at work. He always had trouble remembering the combination.

[[C. V. Raman]]

CATEGORIES: 1888 births, 1970 deaths, Indian scientists, Nobel Prize in Physics winners, Indian Nobel Prize winners

Sir Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman, FRS (7 November 1888 – 21 November 1970) born in Thiruvanaikoil was an Indian physicist. He studied light scattering. He won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1930 for his work in physics. He discovered that, when light passes through a transparent material, some of the deflected light changes in wavelength. This phenomenon is now called Raman scattering and is the result of the Raman effect. He died of natural causes in his institute garden surrounded by flowers. He was awarded the Bharat Ratna in 1954.

[[WWF SmackDown!]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 video games, PlayStation games, WWE video game series

WWF SmackDown! is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ. The game was known as Exciting Pro Wrestling in Japan. The Japanese version was published by Yuke's Future Media Creators.

It was released on March 2, 2000 in North America, April 2000 in Europe and on August 8, 2000 in Japan. The game was the first game in the WWF SmackDown! video game series. It was the first WWF game on the PlayStation to be published by THQ who took over from the previous publisher Acclaim Entertainment. It is was followed by WWF SmackDown! 2: Know Your Role.

[[Deap Vally]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American music groups, Musical groups established in 2011, Indie rock bands, Musical groups from California, 2011 establishments in California

Deap Vally is a pair of Americans, Lindsey Troy and Julie Edwards, who make music together. They started their band in Los Angeles in 2011. Lindsey sings and plays the guitar. Julie plays the drums.

[[Nguni]]

Nguni may refer to:

[[Voortrekker Monument]]

CATEGORIES: Monuments and memorials, Buildings and structures in South Africa, Pretoria

The Voortrekker Monument is a monument in Pretoria in South Africa. It is a massive granite structure on a hilltop. It was built to commemorate the Voortrekkers who left the Cape Colony between 1835 and 1854. 

Most of the Voortrekkers were not satisfied with the British government that ruled over them in the Cape in those years, that is why they packed their ox wagons and started to trek to greener valleys to the north of current South Africa.

It was much hardship that they had to endure for almost 20 years, both from the rural terrain as well as many hostile inhabitants they had to face. This makes the Voortrekker Monument an important structure to the white Afrikaner bloodline (children), because it shows many pictures, reliefs and statutes inside the building of what happened in the history of those years.

[[Nguni people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in Africa

Nguni people are the group of people who speak Nguni languages. These languages are spoken in South Africa, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe.

[[Nguni cattle]]

CATEGORIES: Cattle breeds

Nguni is a breed of cattle. It is found in southern Africa. 

It is a mixture of local and Indian cattle, they were introduced by the Bantu tribes of southern Africa from the north. They are medium sized and like eat grass of the Highveld.

[[University of Pretoria]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 establishments, 1900s establishments in Africa, 20th-century establishments in South Africa, Colleges and universities in South Africa, Pretoria

The University of Pretoria is a large public research university in Pretoria, the capital of South Africa. It started in 1908.

The University was built on seven suburban campuses (in parts of Pretoria). It is organised into nine faculties and a business school.

[[Grimes (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Canadian musicians, Feminists, Living people, Musicians from British Columbia

Claire Boucher (born March 17, 1988), better known as Grimes, is a Canadian musician and artist. She was born in Vancouver in British Columbia. 

[[Jamelia]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Black British musicians, English R&B singers, British rap musicians, British soul musicians, Living people, Musicians from Birmingham

Jamelia Niela Davis (born 11 January 1981), best known as Jamelia, is a British singer-songwriter. She has released three albums.

[[WWE Survivor Series (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, Game Boy Advance-only games, WWE video game series

WWE Survivor Series is a professional wrestling video game developed by Natsume and published by THQ. The game was released for the Game Boy Advance.

It was released on October 12, 2004 in North America and November 19, 2004 in Europe. The game was the sequel to WWE Road to WrestleMania X8 which was released in 2002. It was the last WWE video game to be released on a Nintendo handheld console until 2007 when WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2008 was released on the Nintendo DS. 

[[WWE Raw 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2003 video games, WWE video game series, Xbox games

WWE Raw 2 is a professional wrestling video game developed by Anchor Inc. and published by THQ. The game was released on the Xbox.

It was released on September 15, 2003 in North America and on October 10, 2003 in the PAL region. The game was the sequel to WWE Raw which was released in 2002.

[[Édouard Molinaro]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2013 deaths, French movie directors, French screenwriters, French movie actors, People from Bordeaux

Édouard Molinaro (13 May 1928 – 7 December 2013) was a French movie director and screenwriter. He was born in Bordeaux, Gironde. He was nominated for an Academy Award. Molinaro was known for his movie La Cage aux Folles.

Molinaro died on 7 December 2013 in Paris. His cause of death was of a long-illness. He was 85 years old.

[[Menahem Golan]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2014 deaths, Israeli movie actors, Israeli businesspeople, Israeli Jews, Jewish actors, Jewish businesspeople, Israeli movie directors, Israeli movie producers, People from Tiberias

Menahem Golan (May 31, 1929 – August 8, 2014) (מנחם גולן) or Joseph Goldman was an Israeli movie director and movie producer. He was known for his movies such as Masters of the Universe, Superman IV: The Quest for Peace, Captain America, and for trying to make many Spider-Man movies.

He was co-owner of Golan-Globus with his cousin Yoram Globus. Golan produced about 200 movie, directed 44, won 8 times the Violin David Awards and The Israel Prize in Cinema.

Golan died in Jaffa, Tel Aviv, Israel on August 8, 2014, aged 85.

[[Yoram Globus]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Israeli businesspeople, Israeli Jews, Israeli movie producers, Jewish businesspeople, People from Tiberias

Yoram Globus (born 21 October 1943), is an Israeli movie producer. He is most famous for his association with Cannon Films Inc., a company he ran with his cousin Menahem Golan.

[[Elmer Lach]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, Art Ross Trophy winners, Canadian ice hockey centres, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Quebec, Deaths from stroke, Hart Memorial Trophy winners, Ice hockey people from Saskatchewan, Montreal Canadiens players, People from Regina, Saskatchewan

Elmer James Lach (January 22, 1918 – April 4, 2015) was a Canadian professional ice hockey center. He played 14 seasons for the Montreal Canadiens in the National Hockey League. 

Lach retired in 1954 as the league's all-time leading scorer, having played 664 regular season games, scoring 215 goals and 408 assists for 623 points, as well as 76 postseason games, where he scored 19 goals and 45 assists for 64 points. He was soon elected in the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1966.

Lach was born on January 22, 1918 in Nokomis, Saskatchewan. He was raised in Regina, Saskatchewan. Lach died of a stroke in Pointe-Claire, Quebec, aged 97.

[[Dermot O'Leary]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, BBC radio presenters, Channel 4 presenters, English television presenters, Irish television personalities, ITV presenters, Television personalities from Essex

Seán Dermot Fintan O'Leary, Jr. known as Dermot O'Leary (born 24 May 1973) is an Anglo-Irish television and radio presenter.

[[Emily Jane White]]

CATEGORIES: Singer-songwriters from California, Year of birth missing (living people), Living people

Emily Jane White is a singer and songwriter from California. 

[[The Ordinary Boys]]

CATEGORIES: Indie rock bands, English rock bands, 2000s British music groups, Musical groups established in 2002, Musical groups disestablished in 2008

The Ordinary Boys are an English indie rock band. Their name is from the Morrissey song "The Ordinary Boys". At first they were called Next in Line.

[[Alice Munro]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Canadian writers, Living people, Writers from Ontario

Alice Ann Munro (born 10 July 1931) is a Canadian writer of short stories. Munro received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2013. In her stories Munro has changed the way people write short stories. Her stories usually start in a place where people do not expect. After that, the stories go back and forward in time.

Her first collection of short stories, Dance of the Happy Shades, was published by Ryerson Press in 1968. It won the 1968 Governor General's Award for Fiction.

Munro's most recent collection of short stories, Dear Life, was published in 2012 by McClelland and Stewart.

[[Raphael (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1984, Fictional turtles, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles characters, Injustice (franchise) guest characters, Tony Hawk's (series) guest characters

Raphael is one of the four Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. He is the brawn of the group of brothers and uses sais. He is also known as the Nightwatcher.

[[FKA twigs]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, English singers, Year of birth missing (living people)

Tahliah Barnett, known as FKA twigs, is an English R&B singer. She used to be called twigs. Her music has been called post-dubstep and trip-hop.

She was on the cover of i-D magazine in August 2012.

twigs released her first EP EP on December 4, 2012.

On August 1 2013 twigs posted the video for her single "Water Me" on YouTube. It now has over one million views.

twigs released her second extended play EP2 on September 17, 2013. It was her first release on the record label The Young Turks. Pitchfork gave it a score of 8 out of 10.

In 2013 BBC put her on their Sound of 2014 list of nominees. In January 2014 BBC chose the winner.

twigs' first album LP1 was released in August 2014.

[[Of Thee I Sing (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 books, Children's books, Barack Obama, American literature

Of Thee I Sing: A Letter to My Daughters is a children's book by United States President Barack Obama. It came out on November 16, 2010. It is about the lives of thirteen Americans: George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Martin Luther King, Neil Armstrong, Sitting Bull, Cesar Chavez, Billie Holiday, Maya Lin, Albert Einstein (who was born in Germany), Georgia O'Keeffe, Jackie Robinson, Helen Keller, and Jane Addams. Obama finished writing the book in 2008, after he was elected but before he took office.

[[WWE Raw (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 video games, WWE video game series, Windows games, Xbox games

WWE Raw is a professional wrestling video game developed by Anchor Inc. and published by THQ. The game was titled WWF Raw on the Xbox. The game was released on the Xbox and Microsoft Windows.

It was released on February 11, 2002 in North America, September 27, 2002 in the United Kingdom and October 3, 2002 in Japan on the Xbox. The game was released on October 14, 2002 in North America and on November 1, 2002 in the United Kingdom. A sequel was released in 2002 called WWE Raw 2.

[[Absurd]]

Absurd can refer to several different things:

[[Matthew Fox]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Pennsylvania, Actors from Wyoming, Saturn Award winners

Matthew Chandler Fox (born July 14, 1966) is an American actor. He is known for his roles as Charlie Salinger on Party of Five and Jack Shephard on the supernatural drama television series Lost.

[[John C. McGinley]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Comedians from New York City, Writers from New York City

John Christopher McGinley (born August 3, 1959) is an American actor, comedian, spokesperson, and writer. He is known for his roles as Perry Cox in Scrubs, Bob Slydell in Office Space, Sergeant Red O'Neill in Oliver Stone's Platoon and Marv in Stone's Wall Street. He has also written and produced for television and movies. McGinley is also an author and a spokesperson for the National Down Syndrome Society.

[[Evolution (professional wrestling)]]

CATEGORIES: WWE teams and stables

Evolution is a professional wrestling stable that competes in the WWE. The stable was created on January 20, 2003 and broke up on October 3, 2005.

The members of the stable were Triple H, Randy Orton, Batista and Ric Flair. Triple H acted as the leader and Flair acted as a mentor. The members of the stable each portrayed evolutions of professional wrestling with Ric Flair being "the past", Triple H being "the present"  and Randy Orton and Batista being "the future". They all portrayed heels.

On April 14, 2014, Evolution, not including Ric Flair, reunited. They came down to the ring to their theme "Line in the Sand" by Motörhead and attacked The Shield.

On the June 2 episode of Raw, Batista quit the WWE after he had his title match request denied by Triple H. Later in the night, Triple H said that he had a "Plan B" in his quest to destroy the Shield, which prompted Rollins to turn on and attack his group members Reigns and Ambrose.

[[Nôm]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems, Vietnamese culture

Nôm is a script formerly used in Vietnam. It involved the use of Chinese characters to write Vietnamese. The Van Ban bell, engraved in 1076, has the earliest known example of a Nôm inscription. The earliest surviving Nôm literature dates from the 13th century. The script was in common use until the 1920s. It was replaced by the Vietnamese alphabet. The Vietnamese alphabet is a form of the Latin alphabet.

Classical Chinese was used by the royal court and for other official purposes. The Temple of Literature in Hanoi was the best-known school for the study of Chinese. Students who passed the civil service examinations could go on to become magistrates. Confucian scholars saw Chinese as the language of education and looked down on Nôm, while popular opinion favored Nôm. Only a small percentage of the population was literate in any language, but nearly every village had at least one person who could read Nôm.

In Nôm, a Vietnamese word can be written using a Chinese character for a word with a similar meaning or pronunciation. Each character represents an idea. Such characters are called "ideographs." In addition, each character represents a syllable, or sound. Because traditional characters have this dual property, nearly every syllable in modern Vietnamese has acquired a semantic meaning. Like Chinese, Vietnamese is a tonal language. Since the issue of tone does not arise for Japanese or Korean, native phonetic scripts could develop for these languages without this complicating factor.

Sino-Vietnamese characters were eventually displaced by an alphabetic script. Unlike alphabets used elsewhere, the Vietnamese alphabet has marks to indicate tone. In contrast to South Korea and Japan, modern Vietnam does not require students to study the traditional characters. Fewer than 100 scholars worldwide can read Nôm. Vietnamese literature written in Nôm, including classics like Tale of Kieu and the poetry of Ho Xuan Huong, can now be read only in translation. However, character calligraphy remains popular as a home decoration and as a symbol of good luck. The Han-Nom Institute, founded in 1970, collects and studies relevant manuscripts. The Nôm Ideographs were added to Unicode in 2001. Unicode is an international electronic encoding standard.

[[Dio Chrysostom]]

CATEGORIES: 40 births, 120 deaths, Ancient Greek philosophers, Ancient Greek historians

Dio Chrysostom (Δίων Χρυσόστομος)  was a Greek speaker, writer, philosopher and historian of the Roman Empire. He lived in the 1st century, from about the year 40 to around the year 115.  He is also known as  Dion of Prusa or Dio Cocceianus. Eighty of his Discourses (or Orations) are known. A few Letters and a funny mock essay In Praise of Hair, as well as a few other fragments also survive. His surname Chrysostom comes from the Greek chrysostomos, which literally means "golden-mouthed". He should not be confused with the Roman historian Cassius Dio, nor with the 4th-century bishop John Chrysostom of Constantinople.

[[Cauchy's integral formula]]

CATEGORIES: Functions and mappings

In mathematics, Cauchy's integral formula is a central statement in complex analysis. The statement is named after Augustin-Louis Cauchy. It expresses the fact that a holomorphic function defined on a disk is completely determined by its values on the boundary of the disk. The statement also provides integral formulas for all derivatives of a holomorphic function. Cauchy's formula shows that, in complex analysis, "differentiation is equivalent to integration": complex differentiation, like integration, behaves well under uniform limits – a result denied in real analysis.

[[Magdalen College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1458 establishments, 15th century establishments in England

Magdalen College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The Bishop of Winchester, William of Waynflete, founded the college in 1458.  The full name of the college is "The President and Fellows of the College of St. Mary Magdalene in the University of Oxford".

At dawn on May Day, the College choir sings hymns from the top of the Magdalen Tower. Large crowds gather each year on Magdalen Bridge to hear the choir. 

[[Mansfield College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1886 establishments in England

Mansfield College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1838 as Spring Hill College in Birmingham. Spring Hill College moved to Oxford in 1886. At that time it was renamed Mansfield College, in honor of its largest donors, George and Elizabeth Mansfield. The college's main building was designed by Basil Champneys, and was completed in 1889.

The first female student at Mansfield was admitted in 1913. In 1955, Mansfield was named a Permanent Private Hall at Oxford University. In 1995, Mansfield was granted a Royal Charter making it a full member of the University. 

[[Chlöe Howl]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 births, Living people, English singers

Chlöe Howl (born 4 March 1995) is an English singer. On 4 March 2013, her first extended play Rumor was released for free download. In June 2013, she released the video for her first single "No Strings". She released her second extended play No Strings on August 23. "No Strings" was played in the movie Kick-Ass 2.

Howl was nominated for BBC's Sound of 2014 prize on 3 December 2013.

On 5 December 2013, was nominated for the 2014 BRITs Critics' Choice Award.

On 9 December 2013, her second single "Paper Heart" was released.

[[Eliza Doolittle]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, Singers from London

Eliza Sophie Caird (born 17 April 1988), best known as Eliza Doolittle, is a British singer and songwriter. Her first album Eliza Doolittle was released on 12 July 2010.

[[New College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1379 establishments, 14th century establishments in England, 1370s establishments in Europe

New College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. The official name of the college is "The Warden and Scholars of St. Mary's College at Winchester". New College is one of the oldest colleges at Oxford. It was founded in 1379. It is called "New" because it was the second college at Oxford named in honor of St. Mary. Oriel College which is 55 years older, is also officially named in honor of St. Mary.

[[Say Lou Lou]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 establishments, Musical groups from Sydney, Musicians from Stockholm, Swedish musical groups, Alternative rock bands

Say Lou Lou is a dream pop band. They are Elektra Kilbey and Miranda Kilbey. They are twin sisters. They were called Saint Lou Lou until January 2013.

[[Robert G. Heft]]

CATEGORIES: Politicians from Ohio, American mayors, Deaths from myocardial infarction, 1941 births, 2009 deaths, People from Saginaw, Michigan, Politicians from Michigan

Robert G. "Bob" Heft (January 19, 1942  – December 12, 2009) was the designer of the current United States 50-star flag. He has also designed a 51-star flag that would be used if a new state joins the United States. He was born in Saginaw, Michigan.

Heft designed the current United States flag as a school project in Lancaster, Ohio, when he was 17 years old. He received a B- for his project from his teacher, Stanley Pratt. After talking about the project, he reached an agreement with his teacher that, if the flag was selected as the official flag by the United States Congress, he would get a better grade for the project. Heft's design was chosen out of more than 1,500 designs that were given to United States President Dwight D. Eisenhower, and his teacher changed his grade to an A.

After graduating from college, he became a high school teacher and later a college professor. He was also mayor of Napoleon, Ohio, for 28 years.

After years of combating diabetes, Heft died on December 12, 2009, from a heart attack while living in Saginaw.  He was 67 years old.

[[Nuffield College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1937 establishments in England

Nuffield College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1937. It is a graduate college only. It does not have any undergraduate students.

[[Division of Macarthur]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, new South Wales, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Macarthur is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It is named after John Macarthur and his wife Elizabeth, who were both pioneers of Australia's wool industry. 

It covers the outer south-west of Sydney. It includes the suburbs of Airds, Ambarvale, Appin, Badgerys Creek, Bickley Vale, Bradbury, Camden, Camden South, Campbelltown, Cawdor, Cobbitty, Ellis Lane, Gilead, Glen Alpine, Grasmere, Greendale, Harrington Park, Kentlyn, Mount Annan, Narellan, Oran Park, Rosemeadow, Rossmore, St Helens Park, Wedderburn and Woodbine and parts of Bringelly, Catherine Field, Douglas Park, Leumeah, Razorback and Rossmore.

Over the years the size of the electorate has become much smaller. This is because of the increasing number of people living in the Campbelltown region. The towns of Bowral and Moss Vale and a large part of the Southern Highlands were removed from the division before the 2001 election. 

[[September Girls]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s Irish music groups, Musical groups established in 2011, 2011 establishments in Europe, 21st century establishments in the Republic of Ireland

September Girls are a garage pop band from Dublin, Ireland. They started in 2011. The members are Paula Cullen (bass, vocals), Caoimhe Derwin (guitar, vocals), Lauren Kerchner (keyboards, vocals), Jessie Ward (guitar, vocals), and Sarah Grimes (drums). Their first album will be released by Fortuna Pop! in 2014.

[[4AD]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 establishments in the United Kingdom, British record labels

4AD is a British independent record label. It was started in 1979 by two men who worked at Beggars Banquet, called Ivo Watts-Russell and Peter Kent. It was called Axis Records. In 1980 the name was changed to 4AD. Musicians who have been signed to 4AD include Pixies, Cocteau Twins, and The Birthday Party. 4AD is part of the Beggars Group.

Facing the Other Way: The Story of 4AD, a book by Martin Aston about the history of the label, was published in 2013.

[[Dead Rising]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 video games, Capcom games, Horror video games, Xbox 360-only games

Dead Rising is a survival horror video game developed by Capcom Production Studio 1 and published by Capcom.

It was released on August 8, 2006 in North America, September 8, 2006 in Europe, September 14, 2006 in Australia, and on September 28, 2006 in Japan.The game was the first in the Dead Rising video game series and was followed by Dead Rising 2 in 2010.

In the game the player controls a photojournalist named Frank West who is trapped in a shopping mall during a zombie outbreak. The story centers around West trying to uncover the truth behind the outbreak while trying to stay alive.

[[Christine Ohuruogu]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Black British sportspeople, British children's writers, British female athletes, British Olympic gold medalists, British Olympic silver medalists, Doping cases in sport, Living people, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Members of the Order of the British Empire, People from Newham (London borough), Sportspeople from London, Sprinters

Christine Ijeoma Ohuruogu, MBE (born 17 May 1984) is a British athlete. Her coach is Lloyd Cowan. She was born to Igbo Nigerian parents in Newham, London.

In 2009, she was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire. 

Ohuruogu won a gold medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics and a silver medal in the 400m in the 2012 Summer Olympics. 

In December 2013, she was given the Sunday Times and Sky Sports Sportswoman of the Year award. She was also nominated for BBC Sports Personality of the Year.

Ohuruogu has written children's books.

[[Sino-Vietnamese characters]]

CATEGORIES: Writing systems, Vietnam

Sino-Vietnamese characters  (Hán Nôm) are Chinese-style characters read as either Vietnamese or as Sino-Vietnamese. When they are used to write Vietnamese, they are called Nôm. The same characters may used to write Chinese. In this case, the character is given a Sino-Vietnamese, or Han-Viet, reading. Han-Viet is a system that allows Vietnamese to read Chinese. It is equivalent to pinyin in English.

Some of these characters are also used in China; others are used only in Vietnam. Chinese characters were introduced to Vietnam when the Han Empire invaded the country in 111 BC. Even after Vietnam became independent in AD 939, the country continued to use Classical Chinese (Hán văn) for official purposes. In the 1920s, Vietnam shifted from traditional characters to the Latin alphabet. The Han-Nom Institute was founded in Hanoi in 1970 to collect and study documents written in the traditional script. The institute has submitted a list of 19,981 Sino-Vietnamese characters to Unicode for electronic encoding. This includes a core set of 9,299 characters called the Nôm Ideographs.

[[Dead Rising 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 video games, Capcom games, Horror video games, PlayStation 3 games, Windows games, Xbox 360 games, Video game sequels

Dead Rising 2 is a survival horror video game developed by Blue Castle Games and published by Capcom.

It was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on August 8, 2006 in North America, September 8, 2006 in Europe, September 14, 2006 in Australia, and on September 28, 2006 in Japan. It was also released on Microsoft Windows on September 28, 2010 in North America, September 30, 2010 in Australia, October 1, 2010 in Europe, and on October 28, 2010 in Japan.

The game was the second in the Dead Rising video game series and is the sequel to Dead Rising which was released in 2006.

[[Abraham Maslow]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1970 deaths, American atheists, American psychologists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Jewish American writers, Writers from Brooklyn

Abraham Maslow (April 1, 1908 – June 8, 1970) was an American psychologist. He is considered by other psychologists to be one of the most important psychologists of the 20th century. He was ranked 10th among psychologists nominated for being well-known or influential. He is known for creating Maslow's hierarchy of needs.

Maslow died of a heart attack.

[[Dead Rising 3]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 video games, Capcom games, Horror video games, Xbox One games, Video game sequels

Dead Rising 3 is a survival horror video game developed by Capcom Vancouver and published by Microsoft Studios. 

It was announced Microsoft's E3 2013 press conference on June 10, 2013 and was released exclusively for the Xbox One on November 22, 2013 as a launch title.

The game was the third in the Dead Rising video game series and is the sequel to Dead Rising 2 which was released in 2010.

[[Sándor Szokolay]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Hungarian composers, Hungarian educators

Sándor Szokolay  (30 March 1931 – 8 December 2013) was an Hungarian composer and a professor of the Liszt Ferenc Academy, Budapest.

Szokolay was born on 30 March 1931 in Kunágota, Hungary. He was chairman of the Hungarian Kodály Society (1978) and the Hungarian Music Camera (1991–92), and he is member of the Hungarian Széchenyi Art Academy (1992). Szokolay died on 8 December 2013 in Sopron from pneumonia, Hungary, aged 82.

[[Meg Mundy]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2016 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from London, Actors from New York City

Margaret "Meg" Mundy (4 January 1915 – 12 January 2016) was an English-American actress. She was born in London, but moved to the United States at the age of six in 1921. She played "Mona Aldrich Croft", on The Doctors from 1971 until 1982, when the show was cancelled. She was nominated for two Daytime Emmy Awards for her role as Croft.

Mundy's mother was an Australian opera singer. Mundy was married to Mark Daniels from 1943 until they divorced in 1951. Then she was married to Konstantinos "Dino" Yannopoulos until his death in 1985. They had one child. Mundy now lives in Manhattan, New York. 

[[Kingdom Hearts III]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 video games, Disney video games, Kingdom Hearts series, PlayStation 4 games, Xbox One games

Kingdom Hearts III is a action role-playing video game developed and published by Square Enix. It is the eighth game for the Kingdom Hearts video game series. It was released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. Kingdom Hearts III is the first game in the series to be released on a Microsoft platform as it was only released on both Sony and Nintendo systems.	

[[Watchman]]

CATEGORIES: Law enforcement occupations

Watchmen were groups of men who discouraged crime and enforced the law. They were usually authorised by the state or government. Watchmen have existed in many places around the world throughout history. Today, the job of law enforcement has generally been taken over by organised police.

An early reference to a watch can be found in the Bible. Ezekiel says that it was the watchmen's duty to sound the alarm to warn the people that they were under attack (Ezekiel 33:1-6). The Roman Empire turned the role of a watchman into a profession. The Vigiles was the city watch in Rome. It was the city's police force.

In England, the Ordinance of 1233 required the appointment of watchmen. The Assize of Arms of 1252 and the Statute of Winchester of 1285 are considered among the earliest examples of a police in England. The Assize of Arms required that constables be appointed to call men to fight when the town was under attack. It also required them to stop disturbances of the peace, and to take criminals to the sheriff. By 1415, a watch was appointed to the Parliament of England. King Henry VII appointed a watch for his house, the Tower of London, in 1485. These watchmen became known as the Beefeaters.

[[SpaceShipOne]]

CATEGORIES: Individual aircraft, Spacecraft

SpaceShipOne  is a vehicle built to travel to the lower limits of outer space. It completed the first manned private spaceflight in 2004. That same year, it won the US$10 million Ansari X Prize and has not flown since winning. It was carried high into the air by a specially designed plane named "White Knight". Both vehicles were built and flown by Mojave Aerospace Ventures. This was a joint project between Paul Allen and Scaled Composites, Burt Rutan's flying machine company. Allen provided the money to build and fly SpaceShipOne, about US$25 million.

Rutan has said that ideas about the project began as early as 1994. The full-time work towards the 2004 accomplishments took about three years. The vehicle first flew faster than the speed of sound on December 17, 2003. This date was also the one-hundredth anniversary of the Wright Brothers' historic first powered flight. SpaceShipOne's first official spaceflight, was piloted by Mike Melvill. A few days before that flight, the Mojave Air and Space Port was the first commercial spaceport licensed in the United States. A few hours after that flight, Melvill became the first licensed U.S. commercial astronaut. The overall project name was "Tier One". It has evolved into Tier 1b with a goal of taking a new, but similar ship's first paying passengers into space within the next few years.

[[Watch Dogs]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 video games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation 4 games, Wii U games, Windows games, Xbox 360 games, Xbox One games, Ubisoft games

Watch Dogs (written as Watch_Dogs) is an action-adventure video game that was developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft. The game was released on 27 May 2014. The game is available on Microsoft Windows, the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One and Wii U.

It was revealed during Ubisoft's press conference at E3 2012. They announced that PC is the lead platform for the game.

It was chosen as Best PC Game, Biggest Surprise and Best New Franchise of E3 2012 by IGN. It also won People's Choice Most Exciting Game of E3 2013 by GameSpot. Note; despite the praise from gaming magazines the game was very lackluster.	

The game tells the story of Aiden Pearce, a hacker who searches the city of Chicago for information in order to find out who hired the men who killed his six-year-old niece, Lena, when they tried and failed to kill Aiden. 

[[Leonardo (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1984, Fictional turtles, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles characters, Injustice (franchise) guest characters, Tony Hawk's (series) guest characters

Leonardo is one of the four Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. He is the leader of the team of brothers and uses a sword. He is named after Leonardo da Vinci.

[[Michelangelo (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1984, Fictional turtles, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles characters, Injustice (franchise) guest characters, Tony Hawk's (series) guest characters

Michelangelo is one of the four Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. He is the comic relief of the group of brothers and uses nunchakus.

[[Division of Mackellar]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Mackellar is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It is named after Dorothea Mackellar, a 20th-century Australian poet. The division was set up in 1949.

It covers the northern beach suburbs of Sydney, including Narrabeen, Beacon Hill, Newport, Palm Beach and Terrey Hills.

[[Donatello (Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional characters introduced in 1984, Fictional turtles, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles characters, Injustice (franchise) guest characters, Tony Hawk's (series) guest characters

Donatello is one of the four Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. He is the brains of the group of brothers and uses a bo staff. He is named after Donatello, one of the Renaissance masters.

[[Division of McMahon]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 2009 establishments in Australia

The Division of McMahon is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It was set up in 2010 and is named for Australian Prime Minister Sir William McMahon. It replaced the division of Prospect.

The division covers the western suburbs of Sydney. It includes the suburbs of Abbotsbury, Blacktown (part), Bossley Park, Canley Vale, Cecil Park, Eastern Creek, Edensor Park, Erskine Park, Fairfield, Fairfield Heights, Fairfield West, Greenfield Park, Greystanes, Horsley Park, Kemps Creek, Merrylands (part), Merrylands West, Mount Vernon, Orchard Hills, Pemulwuy, Prairiewood, Prospect, Smithfield, South Wentworthville (part), St Clair and Wetherill Park.

[[Airbus A350 XWB]]

CATEGORIES: Airbus aircraft

The Airbus A350 XWB (XWB standing for Extra Wide Body) is a type of airplane built by European aerospace company Airbus. It is a long-ranged aircraft with two engines and a wide body. It is said that the plane is able to hold and transport 250-350 passengers in a first class, business class, and economy class or a normal 3-class setting. On January 15, 2015, the A350-900 entered service with Qatar Airways, and the A350-1000 in February 24, 2018 with the same airline.

[[Alfriston]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in England, Civil parishes in East Sussex

Alfriston (pronounced All-friston) is a village and civil parish in the Sussex district of Wealden, England. The village is in the valley of the River Cuckmere, about four miles (6 km) north-east of Seaford and south of the main A27 trunk road and part of the large area of Polegate. Alfriston has a population of 764.

[[Dipodidae]]

CATEGORIES: Rodents

The Dipodidae are a family of small to medium-sized rodents living in the northern hemisphere. The family has over 50 species in 16 genera.

They include the jerboas, jumping mice, and birch mice. Different species are found in grassland, deserts, and forests. They are all capable of saltation, which is jumping from a bipedal stance. This feature is most highly evolved in the desert-dwelling jerboas. Their movement resembles that of kangaroos more than that of true mice. 

Most species are nocturnal, and the eyes and ears are noticeably larger than usual in proportion to the body. 

[[Personal defense weapon]]

CATEGORIES: Firearms

A personal defense weapon (PDW) is usually defined as a light, compact and easy to use firearm. However the definition varies depending on context and who you ask. Many will still say it is a Short-barreled rifle (SBR). These are regulated in the United States by the ATF. Many SBRs are available as selective fire (can switch between semi-automatic or fully automatic fire). The United States Department of Homeland Security defines a personal defense weapon as an M4 carbine (or a Colt AR-15 civilian semi-automatic rifle). Some governments' definition of PDWs includes handguns. An example is the Czech Republic which has proposed a constitutional amendment that would allow its citizens to own and keep PDWs as a way to discourage terrorists. Regardless, a PDW is usually agreed upon as being somewhere between a submachine gun and an assault rifle.

[[Swinton, South Yorkshire]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in South Yorkshire

Swinton is a town in the Metropolitan Borough of Rotherham in South Yorkshire, a county in England. 11,701 people lived in Swinton in 2011.

[[Bonobo (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Electronic musicians, Living people, British musicians

Simon Green (born 30 March 1976), known as Bonobo, is a British electronic musician. He released his first album Animal Magic in 2000 on the record label Tru Thoughts. It was then released again by Ninja Tune in 2001. He became successful in 2013 when he released his fifth album The North Borders. Erykah Badu sung on one of the songs on the album. Bonobo's song "Ketto" was used in the Citroën C4 Picasso car advertisement in 2007. He lives in New York.

[[John Legend]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, Actors from Ohio, African American actors, African-American singers, American feminists, American pop singers, American singer-songwriters, Best Original Song Academy Award-winning songwriters, Emmy Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winners, Grammy Award winners, Hip hop musicians, Musicians from Ohio, People from Springfield, Ohio, Soul musicians

John Roger Stephens (born December 28, 1978), known professionally as John Legend, is an American singer and songwriter. Legend has won nine Grammy Awards. He has worked with a number of established musicians before signing to Kanye West in 2004.

[[James Blake]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, English singer-songwriters, Living people, Musicians from London

James Blake Litherland (born 26 September 1988), known as James Blake, is an English singer-songwriter and electronic music producer. In 2013 Blake was nominated for a Grammy Award for the first time. He was nominated for Best New Artist.

[[Katy B]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, English singer-songwriters, Living people, Singers from London

Kathleen Anne Brien (born 8 May 1989), better known as Katy B, is an English singer and songwriter. She released her first album On a Mission  on April 1, 2011. It got good reviews from music critics. It was nominated for the 2011 Mercury Prize. Katy was born in Peckham, London. She went to the BRIT School. Her next album Little Red will be released in February 2014. She released the second single from it, "5 AM", on 4 November 2013. It reached number fourteen in the UK Singles Chart.

[[I Want You Back]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 songs

"I Want You Back" is a 1969 single by The Jackson 5. It was The Jackson 5's first release on Motown. It reached number one in the United States. It has sold six million copies. In 2009 Michael Jackson, the main singer of The Jackson 5, died. The song went back into the charts in the United Kingdom, Sweden, Ireland, Finland, and Australia.

[[ABC (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 songs, Michael Jackson songs

"ABC" is a 1970 single by The Jackson 5. It was the first single from the band's second album ABC. It was number one in the United States for one week.

[[Jarvis Cocker]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, English rock singers, English singer-songwriters, Living people, Musicians from Sheffield

Jarvis Branson Cocker (born 19 September 1963) is an English musician. He is best known for being the frontman of the Britpop band Pulp. In 2012, Cocker started presenting Jarvis Cocker's Sunday Service on BBC Radio 6 Music.

[[The Sims 4]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 video games, Electronic Arts video games, The Sims, MacOS games, Windows games

The Sims 4 is a life simulation video game developed by Maxis and The Sims Studio and published by Electronic Arts. The game was released on September 2, 2014 and is the sequel of The Sims 3. The game is available on Microsoft Windows and OS X.

It was revealed during Gamescon via gameplay demo and release trailer.

The game does not require an internet connection to play, but it will need an Origin account and internet access during the initial installation process.

[[Rizzle Kicks]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 2008, British musical groups, English boy bands, Hip hop bands, Rap music groups, Musical duos

Rizzle Kicks are English hip-hop musicians Jordan "Rizzle" Stephens and Harley "Sylvester" Alexander-Sule. In November 2010, they were signed to the record label Island Records. Their first album, Stereo Typical, was released on 28 October 2011. Their second album, Roaring 20s, was released on 2 September 2013. Rizzle Kicks performed their single "Skip to the Good Bit" at the Royal Variety Performance on the 26th of November 2013.

Harley and Alexander-Sule went to the BRIT School at the same time. In 2008, they started Rizzle Kicks. Their second single "Down with the Trumpets" reached number eight in the UK Singles Chart.

[[Royal Variety Performance]]

CATEGORIES: 1912 establishments in the United Kingdom

The Royal Variety Performance is an evening of performances that happens every year in the United Kingdom. It is called the Royal Variety Performance because important members of the British Royal Family go there.

It is shown on ITV. The first Royal Variety Performance was in 1912. It was called the Royal Command Performance.

The 2013 Royal Variety Performance was at the London Palladium. Gary Barlow and Jessie J sung there.

[[Dying Light]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 video games, PlayStation 4 games, Windows games, Xbox One games

Dying Light is a first person survival horror video game that was developed by Techland and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. The game was released on 27th January 2015. The game is available on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It was revealed on May 23, 2013.

The game started to be developed in early 2012. 	

[[Slavoj Žižek]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century philosophers, 1949 births, Living people, Slovenian people

Slavoj Žižek (born 21 March 1949) is a Slovenian philosopher. He has written more than 70 books. He wrote his first English book The Sublime Object of Ideology in 1989. Žižek writes about a lot of different things. Things that Žižek writes about include psychoanalysis, politics, pop culture, and theology.

He writes for The Guardian.  In 2013, he married the Slovene journalist Jela Krečič.

[[Mince pie]]

CATEGORIES: Pies

A mince pie, also known as 'minced pie', is a small British fruit-based mince sweet pie. It is usually served during the Christmas season.  Originally it was a savoury pie, now it is a sweet pie.

Its ingredients are traceable to the 13th century, when returning European crusaders brought with them Middle Eastern recipes containing meats, fruits and spices.

The early mince pie was known by several names, including mutton pie, shrid pie and Christmas pie. Typically its ingredients were a mixture of minced meat, suet, a range of fruits, and spices.

The ingredients for the modern mince pie can be traced to the return of European crusaders from the Holy Land. Middle Eastern methods of cooking, which sometimes combined meats, fruits and spices, were popular at the time. Pies were created from such mixtures of sweet and savoury foods; in Tudor England, shrid pies (as they were known then) were formed from shredded meat, suet and dried fruit. The addition of spices such as cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg was "in token of the offerings of the Eastern Magi".

Early pies were much larger than those of today, and oblong shaped. "The coffin of our Christmas-Pies, in shape long, is in imitation of the Cratch" (Jesus's crib). In old English cookery books the crust of a pie is generally called 'the coffin'.

[[Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, African American lawyers, Living people, People from Ohio, Feminists

Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw (born 1959) is a professor at UCLA School of Law and Columbia Law School. She made the word "intersectionality" in 1989. She is a feminist. She was born in Canton, Ohio in 1959. She edited the 1995 book Critical Race Theory: The Key Writings That Formed the Movement. In 1996 Crenshaw started the African American Policy Forum with Luke Harris. She has been on The Tavis Smiley Show and MSNBC.

[[Pure Heroine]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums

Pure Heroine is the first album by Lorde. The album got good reviews from music critics. It was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards. The first single released from the album was "Royals". "Royals" was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Performance, Song of the Year and Record of the Year at the 2014 Grammy Awards.  The second single "Tennis Court" reached number one in New Zealand.

Lorde wrote the album with Joel Little. Little produced the album.

The Guardian put Pure Heroine at number thirteen on their list of the best albums of 2013. Rolling Stone put the album seventh in their list of the 50 best albums of 2013.

[[Jessica Valenti]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American feminists, American writers, Living people, Bloggers, American bloggers

Jessica Valenti (born November 1, 1978) is an American feminist writer. She started the feminist blog Feministing in 2004. In 2011 she left the website.

[[Economy class]]

CATEGORIES: Travel

Economy class, also called coach class, steerage,  or standard class, is the lowest travel class of seating in air travel, rail travel, and sometimes ferry or maritime travel. 

[[Nya Quesada]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Argentine movie actors, Argentine television actors, Argentine stage actors, Actors from Buenos Aires

Armonía "Nya" Quesada (13 April 1919 – 6 December 2013) was an Argentine actress. Her career lasted for almost fifty years.

Quesada died on 6 December 2013 from natural causes, aged 94, in Buenos Aires.

[[Battle of Monte Cassino]]

CATEGORIES: European battles of World War II, 1944 in Italy

The Battle of Monte Cassino (also called the Battle for Rome and the Battle for Cassino) was a battle during the Italian Campaign of World War II. It was a series of four attacks by the Allies against the Winter Line in Italy held by the Germans and Italians.

At the beginning of 1944, the western half of the Winter Line was held by Germans. They held the Rapido, Liri, and Garigliano valleys and some of the mountains. Together, these valleys and mountains were called the Gustav Line. The goal of the Battle of Monte Cassino was to break through this line to Rome.

Monte Cassino, a church, was not occupied by the German defenders. The Germans had set up defence positions in the slopes.

American bombers dropped 1,400 tons of bombs onto the Cassino Abbey.

German paratroopers went into the abbey's ruins. Between 17 January and 18 May, Monte Cassino and the Gustav defences were attacked four times by Allied troops. The German defenders were finally driven from their positions, but with many losses for the Allies.

[[Eleanor Parker]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Ohio, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in the United States

Eleanor Jean Parker (June 26, 1922 – December 9, 2013) was an American actress. She was known for her roles in Between Two Worlds, Hollywood Canteen, Pride of the Marines, Never Say Goodbye, The Sound of Music, The Seventh Sin, and in Return to Peyton Place. She was nominated for an Academy Award.

Parker died on December 9, 2013 of complications of pneumonia at her Palm Springs, California home. She was 91.

[[Kuniko Inoguchi]]

CATEGORIES: Japanese politicians, 1952 births, Living people, People from Chiba Prefecture

Kuniko Inoguchi (born May 3, 1952) is a Japanese politician. She belongs to the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). On 31 October 2005, she was appointed Minister of State for Gender equality and Social Affairs.

She received an Master of Arts from Yale University in 1977. She also received a Ph.D. in political science from Yale in 1982.

[[Nippon Budokan]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Tokyo, Sports buildings

Nippon Budokan is an arena in Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo. It was used as the judo stadium at the 1964 Summer Olympics.

[[Thomas Chippendale]]

CATEGORIES: 1718 births, 1779 deaths, People from London

Thomas Chippendale (1718-1779) was born in England. He was a London cabinet-maker and furniture designer. He produced a new style, Neoclassical. Chip 'n Dale are named after him.December 2013

[[Orix Buffaloes]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball in Japan

Orix Buffaloes is a Japanese baseball team. This team was formed by the Orix BlueWave and the Osaka Kintetsu Buffaloes after the 2004 NPB season. The team is based in Osaka and Kobe and play home games at Kyocera dome and Kobe Hotto Motto stadium. The team has not had good results in recent seasons.

A former player, Ichiro Suzuki, now plays for the New York Yankees.

[[Steve Lawrence]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, People with Alzheimer's disease, Jewish American musicians, Jewish American actors, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from New York City, Singers from New York City, Musicians from New York City

Steve Lawrence (born Sidney Liebowitz; July 8, 1935) is an American singer, musician, and actor. He is best known as a member of a duo with his wife Eydie Gormé, known as "Steve and Eydie." The two appeared together since appearing regularly on Tonight Starring Steve Allen in the mid-1950s until Gormé's retirement. He was raised of a Jewish faith.

In June 2019, Lawrence was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease.

[[Claire Martin]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2014 deaths, Canadian centenarians, People from Quebec City, Writers from Quebec

Claire Martin (April 18, 1914 – June 18, 2014) was a Canadian writer. "Claire Martin" was her pseudonym. Her real name was Claire Montreuil.

Martin was born in Quebec City, Quebec. She studied at the Ursuline convent and by the Dames de la Congrégation. From 1945 to 1972, she lived in Ottawa and was a writer she created a book called The Race Of The Golden Apples.

Her residence at the University of Ottawa. From 1972 to 1982, she lived in France, before returning to Quebec.

Martin died in Quebec City, aged 100.

[[Douglas Slocombe]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2016 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Accidental deaths in the United Kingdom, British centenarians, British cinematographers, People from London, BAFTA Award winners

Douglas Slocombe OBE, BSC, ASC (10 February 1913 – 22 February 2016) was a British cinematographer. He had a long career in the British movie industry. His 84 feature movies span over 47 years. They include everything from early comedies in the late 1940s, and early 1950s, to the first three Indiana Jones movies in the 1980s.

Slocombe died at the age of 103 in a London hospital from complications from a fall on 22 February 2016.

[[Green Climate Fund]]

CATEGORIES: Climate change, United Nations, International organizations, 2010

The Green Climate Fund (GCF) is an international fund for fighting climate change. It is part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). It was proposed at the Cancun Conference in Mexico in 2010. It was accepted at the Durban Conference in South Africa in December 2011. The fund's goal is to help developing countries fight climate change by providing them with the money they need to do so. Money may be granted for projects, programs, policies and activities that will help fight climate change or help those countries adapt to global warming.

GCF operates in Songdo, Incheon, South Korea. The Green Climate Fund headquarters were officially opened on 4 December 2013.

The fund is governed by a board of directors. The Board has 24 members. There is an equal number of members from developing and developed countries. Two Co-Chairs of the Board are elected by the Board members. One is a member from a developed country and the other is a member from a developing country. Currently, the Co-Chairs of the Board are Mr. Manfred Konukiewitz (Germany) and Mr. Jose Maria Clemente Sarte Salceda (The Philippines).

Observers have noted that the GCF still has many challenges to work through. These challenges include the way the fund works, what its functions and goals are, how it is governed, and how it will do its job. These must be decided either by the GCF Board or by the countries that are party to the UNFCCC.

[[Jan Ekier]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2014 deaths, Centenarians, Polish pianists, Polish composers

Jan Stanisław Ekier (August 29, 1913 – August 15, 2014) was a Polish pianist and composer. He is known for his authoritative edition of Chopin's music for the Polish National Edition.

He was born in Kraków, Poland. He turned 100 in August 2013. His first wife was the Polish actress Danuta Szaflarska. Ekier died in Warsaw, a fortnight short of his 101st birthday.

[[Titanfall]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 video games, Electronic Arts video games, Windows games, Xbox 360 games, Xbox One games

Titanfall is a first-person shooter video game that was developed by Respawn Entertainment and published by Electronic Arts.

The game was released on March 11, 2014 in North America, March 13, 2014 in Europe and Australia and on March 14, 2014 in New Zealand and the United Kingdom. The game was made available on Microsoft Windows, Xbox 360, and Xbox One.

It was revealed during Microsoft's E3 2013 press conference and will be the debut game from Respawn.

The game won over 60 awards at its E3 2013 reveal and six E3 Critics Awards: Best in Show, Best Original Game, Best Console Game, Best PC Game, Best Action Game, and Best Online Multiplayer which broke a record. The game was named Best in Show from IGN, Destructoid, Game Informer, and Electronic Gaming Monthly. It also won Best Next Generation Console Game and Best Xbox Game at Gamescom 2013 as well as a Future Award at the 2013 Tokyo Game Show. At VGX 2013, it won Most Anticipated Game.	

[[Boris Pahor]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, Living people, Centenarians, Holocaust survivors, People from Trieste, Slovenian writers

Boris Pahor (born 26 August 1913) is a Slovenian writer. He is known for his Holocaust experience described in the novel Necropolis the novel has been translated twice into English. His first book was under the title Pilgrim Among the Shadows in 1995, and the second time under the title Necropolis in 2010.

[[Herb Jeffries]]

CATEGORIES: 1913 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American centenarians, American jazz musicians, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Detroit, Michigan, Musicians from Detroit, Michigan, Singers from Detroit, Michigan

Herbert "Herb" Jeffries (Umberto Alexander Valentino; September 24, 1913 – May 25, 2014), was an American jazz and popular singer and actor.

[[Myeong-dong]]

CATEGORIES: Seoul

Myeong-dong (명동, literally means 'bright town') is an area in Jung-gu, Seoul, South Korea. It is mostly a commercial area, being one of the main shopping and tourism districts in Seoul.  

Actually, Myeong-dong is not an original name and it was not known as a commercial area at first. During the Joseon Dynasty era, it was mostly a residential district called Myeongryebang (명례방). Later on, under the Japanese colonization, the name was changed to Myeongchijeong (명치정). It started to be more like a commercial district during that colonial period. Finally it was changed to the current name, Myeong-dong in 1946, after independence. 

[[Chuncheon]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Chuncheon is the capital city of Gangwon Province in South Korea. The city is in a small flat area surrounded by mountains. The Soyang River is around the city. It is the water source of the Han River. Because of this river, Chuncheon has lots of foggy days. Chuncheon is a popular tourist attraction among Korean and East Asian tourist thanks to the popular Korean drama Winter Sonata. 

[[Main course]]

CATEGORIES: Meals

The main course is food that is served as the main dish in a multi-course meal. It is often served after the entrée. In the United States, the main course may be called the "entrée".

The main course is usually the biggest dish on a menu. The main ingredient is often meat or fish. It most often follows an appetizer, soup, or salad, and is often followed by a dessert.

[[Richard S. Williamson]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from cerebral hemorrhage, US Republican Party politicians, American diplomats, Writers from Chicago, Writers from Virginia, Politicians from Chicago, Politicians from Virginia

Richard Salisbury Williamson (May 9, 1949 – December 8, 2013) was an American lawyer, diplomat and pedagogue. He previously served as Special Envoy to Sudan under George W. Bush. Williamson was a partner at Winston & Strawn and was also Thomas J. Sharkey Distinguished Visiting Scholar at Seton Hall's Whitehead School of Diplomacy.

Williamson died of a cerebral hemorrhage at a Chicago hospital on December 8, 2013, aged 64.

[[Paul Freeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, Actors from Hertfordshire

Paul Freeman (born 18 January 1943) is an English movie, stage, voice, and television actor. He is best known for his role as rival archeologist René Belloq in Raiders of the Lost Ark and as the evil wine baron, Gustav Reibmann on season 4 of Falcon Crest. He also appeared in Hot Fuzz. 

[[Beşbarmaq]]

CATEGORIES: Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Foods

Beşbarmaq (бешбармак, наарын, тууралган эт; Uzbek: norin, нарын) is the national dish of Kyrgyzstan, Bashkortostan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan.  It is also the main course on feasts in Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. It is made from meat, with chopped noodles and onion sauce.

[[Progressive conservatism]]

CATEGORIES: Political movements, Conservatism, Christian democracy

Progressive conservatism  is an ideology that tries to unite conservative and progressive ideas. To deal with poverty, the ideology supports the idea of a social safety net. It also supports a limited redistribution of wealth. The people supporting progressive conservatism want to allow the  government to regulate markets in the interests of both consumers and producers. Progressive conservatism first arose as a distinct ideology in the United Kingdom under Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli's "One Nation" Toryism.

In the UK, the Prime Ministers Disraeli, Stanley Baldwin, Neville Chamberlain, Winston Churchill, Harold Macmillan, and David Cameron have been described as progressive conservatives. The Catholic Church's Rerum Novarum (1891) advocates a progressive conservative doctrine known as social Catholicism.

In the United States, Theodore Roosevelt has been the main figure identified with progressive conservatism as a political tradition.  Roosevelt stated that he had "always believed that wise progressivism and wise conservatism go hand in hand".  Some people considered the administration of President William Howard Taft to be progressive conservative. Taft described himself as "a believer in progressive conservatism". President Dwight D. Eisenhower declared himself an advocate of "progressive conservatism". In Germany, Chancellor Leo von Caprivi promoted a progressive conservative agenda called the "New Course". In Canada, a variety of conservative governments have been progressive conservative, with Canada's major conservative movement being officially named the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada from 1942 to 2003. In Canada, the Prime Ministers Arthur Meighen, R.B. Bennett, John Diefenbaker, Joe Clark, Brian Mulroney, and Kim Campbell led progressive conservative federal governments.

[[Colleges and universities in Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Oregon, Lists of colleges and universities

This is a list of colleges and universities in Oregon:

[[Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Sports competitions

In sport, a championship is a competition to determine which individual or team is the champion. Different forms of competition can be called a championship. It is usually the final competition in a tournament (a series of competitions). For example, the FIFA World Cup is a tournament held every four years. The winner of the final competition of each tournament becomes that tournament's champion. In a league system, the championship is the final competition of a regular season. In some league systems, a series of playoffs is used to determine the champion of a season. There is one champion for each season. In combat sports, such as wrestling and boxing, a competitor must challenge the current champion to win the championship.

[[Atlas Computer (Manchester)]]

CATEGORIES: Computing

The Atlas Computer was a computer installed in Manchester University in 1962 that was very important in the development of computing. The Atlas computer was one of the worlds first supercomputers and possibly the most powerful computer in the world at its time.

[[Management information system]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

A management information system is a system that allows a company to run efficiently, by providing the relevant information the company needs. Nowadays, management information systems use specialized software that runs on a computer. A management information system is usually targeted at economic aspects of running a company, while an executive information system is usually designed for managing staff. The first such systems were built in the 1960s.

[[Battle of Ortona]]

CATEGORIES: European battles of World War II, 1943 in Italy, December events

The Battle of Ortona was a small, very violent battle fought between German and Canadian troops. It was fought on December 20–28, 1943. It was part of World War II.

The battalion of German paratroops were from the German 1st Parachute Division under Generalleutnant Richard Heidrich. The Canadian forces were from the 1st Canadian Infantry Division under Major General Chris Vokes.

It was part of the fighting on the Adriatic area in Italy. The battle has been called "Little Stalingrad" because of the violent, close fighting. The battle took place in the Adriatic Sea town of Ortona, with a population of 10,000.

[[Battle of Anzio]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 in Italy, Battles involving Canada, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving the United Kingdom, Battles involving the United States, European battles of World War II, Lazio

The Battle of Anzio, which is also called Operation Shingle (January 22, 1944) was an Allied sea landing in the Italian Campaign against German forces of Anzio and Nettuno, Italy.

The attack was commanded by American Major General John P. Lucas. He wanted to get around German forces on the Winter Line. Then he wanted to attack Rome. Making a sea landing in a marshland needed to be done quickly.

The landing surprised the Germans. The Allies even got near Rome. The Allies got their men ready on the beach. The German commander in the Put his guns around the beach.  The Germans also flooded the marsh with salt water.

After a month of heavy fighting,

the Allies finally got past the beaches in May. The Allies went north-west to Rome which was captured on 4 June.

The German Tenth Army at Cassino were able to go north of Rome. Then they got ready to defend the Gothic Line.

[[Abdul Quader Molla]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 deaths, 1948 births, Executed people, Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami politicians, Bangladeshi Muslims

Abdul Quader Molla (আব্দুল কাদের মোল্লা; 14 August 1948 – 12 December 2013) was a politician in Bangladesh. He was convicted of war crimes committed during the 1971 liberation war of Bangladesh. He is the assistant secretary-general of the Jamaat-e-Islami, the largest Islamist party in the country. He was scheduled to be executed by hanging on 11 December 2013 at 0:01. Later, the execution was postponed until 10:30 of the day.

He is the former executive editor of The Daily Sangram. He stood twice unsuccessfully for parliament in 1986 and 1996. He was contesting the seat Faridpur-4 for Jamaat-e-Islami.

Molla was executed on 12 December 2013.

[[WaveBird Wireless Controller]]

CATEGORIES: Nintendo hardware

The WaveBird Wireless Controller is a wireless game controller for the Nintendo GameCube video game console. It uses radio frequency signals to communicate with the controller. It is powered by standard AA batteries. It was released in 2002. Its name is a reference to Dolphin, which is what the GameCube was named during development.

The WaveBird controller has the same design as the normal GameCube controllers. It is a little bigger and heavier than the normal GameCube controllers. It has a dial for selecting the channel a person wants the controller on, an on/off switch, and an orange LED light which is used to show that the controller is turned on. The WaveBird does not have the rumble feature that the normal GameCube controller has, as that would make the battery last for a shorter amount of time.

Like the normal GameCube controller, the WaveBird can be used with the Wii. It can be used for GameCube and Virtual Console titles, as well as with some Wii games and WiiWare titles. The WaveBird became more popular after the Wii's release because of how it can control those games wirelessly.

[[Battle of Bataan]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific battles of World War II, 1940s in the Philippines, 1942

The Battle of Bataan was part of Japan's invasion of the Philippines during World War II.

The capture of the Philippine Islands was important to Japan's goals. Japan wanted to control the Southwest Pacific, capture the resource-rich Dutch East Indies, and protect its Southeast Asia side.

It was the largest surrender in American and Filipino military history. It was the largest United States surrender since the pre-Civil War's raid on Harper's Ferry.

[[Salman Khan (educator)]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Businesspeople from California, Chief executives, American educators, Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni, Businesspeople from New Orleans, Louisiana, Living people, Business people

Salman Amin "Sal" Khan (born October 11, 1976) is a Bengali-American educator, entrepreneur, and former hedge fund analyst. He started the Khan Academy, a free online education platform and nonprofit organization.

[[Battle of Rimini (1944)]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 in Italy, Battles involving Canada, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving Greece, Battles involving New Zealand, Battles involving the United Kingdom, European battles of World War II, Rimini, September 1944 events

The Battle of Rimini was a battle during World War II. It happened between 13 and 21 September 1944 in Rimini in Italy.

The battle was part of Operation Olive. This was the main Allied attack on the Gothic Line in August and September 1944. This was part of the Italian Campaign in the Second World War.

The Rimini Line was a German defensive line which was part of the Gothic Line.  Rimini had 1,470,000 rounds fired against it by allied forces.

[[Vernon Shaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Presidents of Dominica

Vernon Lorden Shaw (May 13, 1930 – December 2, 2013) was the 5th President of Dominica. He took office on October 6, 1998, following the expiration of President Crispin Sorhaindo's single five-year term. Shaw left office on October 1, 2003, and was succeeded by Nicholas Liverpool. He died on December 2, 2013 from a heart attack, aged 83.

[[Gal Gadot]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Israeli movie actors, Israeli television actors, Israeli voice actors, Israeli stage actors, Israeli Jews, Israeli models, Jewish actors, Jewish models

Gal Gadot (aka Gal Gadot-Varsano; ˈ GAH GAH; גל גדות; born 30 April 1985) is an Israeli actress and model. Gadot won Miss Israel 2004, before serving in the Israel Defence Forces. She played Gisele Harabo in the 2009 movie Fast and Furious. Gadot also played Wonder Woman in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice in 2016. She appeared in the solo movie Wonder Woman (2017) and again as Wonder Woman in Justice League (2017). 

In 2013, she was ranked as the second highest earning fashion model in Israel. She is the face of Gucci's Bamboo perfume.

[[Kees Brusse]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Dutch movie actors, Dutch movie directors, Dutch stage actors, Dutch television actors, People from Rotterdam

Kees Brusse (6 February 1925 – 9 December 2013) was a Dutch actor and movie director. He appeared in 47 movie and television shows since 1936. He starred in the 1975 movie Dokter Pulder zaait papavers. It was entered into the 26th Berlin International Film Festival.

[[Jim Hall (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American jazz musicians, American guitarists, American composers, Musicians from Buffalo, New York

James Stanley "Jim" Hall (December 4, 1930 – December 10, 2013)Jazztimes/ref was an American jazz guitarist, composer, and arranger. 

Hall died in his sleep in his Manhattan, New York apartment on December 10, 2013 from a heart attack, aged 83.

[[Don Lund]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American baseball players, Major League Baseball players, Sportspeople from Detroit, Michigan, Brooklyn Dodgers players, Detroit Tigers players

Donald Andrew Lund (May 18, 1923 – December 10, 2013) was a backup outfielder in Major League Baseball. He played for the Brooklyn Dodgers (1945, 1947, 1948start), St. Louis Browns (1948end) and Detroit Tigers (1949–1954). He batted and threw right-handed.

He died on December 10, 2013 at the age of 90 in Ann Arbor, Michigan at his home from natural causes.

[[Rossana Podestà]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, People from Tripoli

Rossana Podestà (20 June 1934 – 10 December 2013) was an Italian actress. She was known for her roles in Ulysses and Helen of Troy.

She was born in Tripoli, in the Italian colony of Libya on 20 June 1934. She was married to Walter Bonatti until his death in 2011. Podestà died from brain cancer in Rome, Italy, aged 79.

[[Lino Grech]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, Maltese writers, Maltese activists, Movie actors, Television actors, Movie directors

Lino Grech (1930 – 1 December 2013) was a Maltese actor, writer, activist and director. He was known for his roles in Final Justice (1985), Black Eagle (1988) and A Fine Romance (1989).

[[Brian Hitchen]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2013 deaths, Road accident deaths, English journalists, Publishers, Writers from Lancashire, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire

Brian Hitchen, CBE (8 July 1936 – 2 December 2013) was a British newspaper editor. Late in his career, he worked as a publisher. 

An incident with a car while crossing the road near Alicante, in Spain, led to his wife being killed instantly, while Hitchen himself died from his injuries a few hours later.

[[Salim Kallas]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, People from Damascus, Radio personalities, Syrian politicians, Television actors

Salim Kallas (العربية; 13 November 1936 − 2 December 2013) was a Syrian actor and politician.

Kallas died following a long battle of lung cancer on 2 December 2013, aged 77, in Damascus. He left behind him; his wife, his son and his five daughters. His burial took place on the following day, 3 December.

[[Riff Raff]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, American rap musicians from Texas, Musicians from Houston, Texas, Living people

 

Horst Christian Simco, better known as Riff Raff, is a rapper, singer and songwriter from Texas. He joined the band The Neighborhood in 2013. His second album Neon Icon is going to be released by Mad Decent in January 2014. 2 Chainz, Drake, Snoop Dogg, and Juicy J worked on the album with Riff Raff.

[[Johan van Hulst]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2018 deaths, Chess players, Christian Democratic Appeal politicians, Christian Historical Union politicians, Dutch academics, Dutch Calvinists, Dutch centenarians, Dutch people of World War II, Former MEPs, Humanitarians, Members of the Senate of the Netherlands, MEPs for the Netherlands, Politicians from Amsterdam, Sportspeople from Amsterdam

Johan Wilhelm van Hulst (January 28, 1911 – March 22, 2018) was a Dutch retired politician. He served as Member of the Senate from July 3, 1956 until June 10, 1981. He was the Parliamentary leader of the Christian Historical Union in the Senate from December 10, 1968 until June 8, 1977 when the Christian Historical Union merged into the Christian Democratic Appeal.

Van Hulst was also a chess player and a former academic.

On March 22, 2018, Van Hulst died in Amsterdam at the age of 107.

[[Jackson Browne]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, American rock singers, American folk singers, American folk musicians, American rock guitarists, American political activists, Musicians from Los Angeles, California, People from Heidelberg, Singer-songwriters from California

Clyde Jackson Browne (born October 9, 1948) is an American singer-songwriter and musician. He has sold over 18 million albums in the United States alone. People know him for his songs "These Days", "The Pretender", "Running on Empty", "Lawyers in Love", "Doctor My Eyes", "Take It Easy", "For a Rocker", and "Somebody's Baby". 

Browne was born in Heidelberg, Germany on October 9, 1948 to an American family. He was raised in Los Angeles.

On March 24, 2020, Browne announced that he had tested positive for COVID-19 during the 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic.

[[Silvio Zavala]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 2014 deaths, Centenarians, Mexican historians

Silvio Arturo Zavala Vallado (February 7, 1909 – December 5, 2014) was a Mexican historian. He was an expert in law studies and Mexico's history.

Zavala born in Mérida, Yucatán on February 7, 1909. He studied at the National University of Mexico and at the University of Madrid. Zavala obtained a Ph.D. in law from the latter. He began his professional career in Spain in the Center for Historic Studies in Madrid.

Zavala died in Mexico City on December 5, 2014, aged 105.

[[Moonwalker]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 movies, Michael Jackson, American superhero movies

Moonwalker, also known as Michael Jackson: Moonwalker, is an American movie. It was released in 1988 in theatres in Europe and South America. The movie is a collection of eight short films about Michael Jackson. It is 93 minutes long. It made US$67,000,000 at box offices. On January 10, 1989, it was released on video on the United States and Canada. The video had sold more than 800,000 copies in the U.S. by April 17, 1989. The movie is named after a dance move that Jackson did called the moonwalk. John Lennon's son Sean is in the movie. Jackson executive produced Moonwalker.

Brandon Quentin Adams won the 1989 Young Artist Award for Best Young Actor/Actress in a Film Made for Video for his role as Zeke, a child version of Jackson, in the movie.

In 1989, Blackthorne Publishing made the movie into a comic book called Moonwalker 3-D.

[[Apollo Lunar Module]]

CATEGORIES: Apollo program, NASA spacecraft

The Apollo Lunar Module (LM) is the spidery-looking landing vehicle on the moon. It was built for the US Apollo program to carry a crew of two from lunar orbit to the surface and back.

The LM was the last of the Apollo “hardware” to be developed. Its start had been delayed while NASA made up its mind to take the lunar-orbit meeting approach and thus require a vehicle like the LM for a landing. A contract with the prime builder was signed on January, 1963, almost two years after the Apollo project began. The LM was tested several times in space. Finally, on July 20, 1969 the Apollo 11 LM Eagle made the first manned lunar landing. 

As Apollo missions progressed, Apollo 12, 14, 15, 16, 17 had lunar landings using their LMs.  Apollo 13 had a terribly dangerous accident when an oxygen tank exploded. The Apollo 13 Lunar module, called Aquarius, played an unexpected role in saving the lives of the three astronauts after the explosion. 

[[Mont-Saint-Michel]]

CATEGORIES: Tidal islands, Islands of France, World Heritage Sites in France, Communes in Manche

Le Mont-Saint-Michel (mɔ̃ sɛ̃ mi.ʃɛl; Saint Michael's Mount) is an island and commune in Normandy, France. It is in the Manche department. It is located about one kilometre (1) from the country's northwestern coast. It is at the mouth of the Couesnon River near Avranches. It is 247 in size and it has a population of 44 (2009). People that live there are called the Montois.

The island has had strategic fortifications since ancient times. The name Mont-Saint-Michel comes from the monastery built there in the eighth century AD. The way in which the town is built is an example of how feudal society worked. At the top there is God, the abbey and monastery. Below this, there are the great halls, then stores and houses. At the bottom, outside the walls, there are the houses of fishermen and farmers.

Mont-Saint-Michel is one of France's most famous landmarks. The island and its bay are part of the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites. Every year, more than 3 million people visit it.

[[Spring 1945 offensive in Italy]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 in Italy, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving India, Battles involving Italy, Battles involving New Zealand, Battles involving Poland, Battles involving South Africa, Battles involving the United Kingdom, Battles involving the United States, European battles of World War II

The Spring 1945 offensive in Italy was given the code name Operation Grapeshot. It was the Allied attack by Fifth United States Army and British 8th Army into the Lombardy Plain. It started on 6 April 1945 and ended on 2 May with the surrender of German forces in Italy.

[[Hallasan]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Korea, Mountains of Asia

Hallasan is one of Korea's three most sacred mountains. It is on Jeju-do, the southernmost island of Republic of Korea. It is 1,950m tall. On the top of Hallasan, there is a crater called Baek Rok Dam. It was an active volcano until about 25,000 years ago. It is now dormant. Hallasan is made of basalt, a type of black rock that is produced by volcanoes. It extends east to west. The south side of Hallasan is very steep. The slope of the north side is gentle. The east and south are relatively high but smooth.  

[[Aleqa Hammond]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Greenland, Protestants

Aleqa Hammond (born 23 September 1965) is a Greenlandic politician. She was the leader of the Siumut party and also the country's first female Prime Minister after her party emerged as the largest in the 2013 elections.

[[Juan Vicente Torrealba]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Centenarians, Composers, Musicians, People from Caracas, Venezuelan people

Juan Vicente Torrealba (20 February 1917 – 2 May 2019) was a Venezuelan harpist and composer of popular music.

Torrealba died at the age of 102 from heart failure on 2 May 2019, aged 102.

[[Arnoldo Foà]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Emilia-Romagna, Deaths from respiratory failure, Disease-related deaths in Italy, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian voice actors, People from Ferrara

Arnoldo Foà (24 January 1916 – 11 January 2014) was an Italian movie actor. He has appeared in more than 130 movie since 1938. He was born in Ferrara, Italy.

Foà died on the morning of 11 January 2014, 13 days before his 98th birthday, from respiratory failure in his home in Rome, Italy.

[[Jacque Fresco]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2017 deaths, American centenarians, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Florida, Futurists, Jewish American writers, Writers from Brooklyn

Jacque Fresco (March 13, 1916 – May 18, 2017) was an American self-taught structural designer, architectural designer, concept artist, educator, and futurist. Fresco wrote and lectured his views concerning sustainable cities, energy efficiency, natural-resource management, cybernetic technology, advanced automation, and the role of science in society. He was of Jewish descent.

Fresco died at his home in Sebring, Florida from complications of Parkinson's disease on May 18, 2017, aged 101.

[[Vittorio Emanuele Orlando]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 births, 1952 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Prime Ministers of Italy, People from Palermo

Vittorio Emanuele Orlando (May 19, 1860 – December 1, 1952) was an Italian diplomat and political figure. He was born in Palermo, Sicily. His father, a landed gentleman, delayed venturing out to register his son's birth for fear of Giuseppe Garibaldi's 1,000 patriots who had just stormed into Sicily on the first leg of their march to build an Italian nation.

[[Gabriel Axel]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2014 deaths, Danish movie actors, Danish writers, Danish movie directors, Danish movie producers, Danish screenwriters, Television directors, Aarhus

Gabriel Axel (18 April 1918 – 9 February 2014) was a Danish movie director, actor, writer and producer. He is best known for the movie Babette's Feast (1987). He wrote and directed this movie. He won an Academy Award for it.

Axel died on 9 February 2014 at the age of 95.

[[WWE Saturday Morning Slam]]

CATEGORIES: World Wrestling Entertainment television programs, 2012 American television series debuts, 2013 American television series endings

WWE Saturday Morning Slam was a professional wrestling show made by the WWE.

During its televised history in the United States it was shown on The CW during its Vortexx Saturday morning block. It was centered around being more family-friendly and targeted towards children. The show ran from August 25, 2012 to May 11, 2013. The show was cancelled because of creative differences between both the WWE and Saban Brands.

[[Reed College]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Oregon, Portland, Oregon, 1908 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Oregon

Reed College is a private liberal arts college in Portland Oregon. Reed was begun in 1908 and had its first classes in 1911. Reed is an undergraduate school. An unusually high number of Reed's students go on to get Ph.D.s after they graduate. Reed is the only private undergraduate school to have a nuclear reactor. 

Tuition at Reed is about $44,200 a year. Reed is secular, meaning the school is not part of a religion. The school does not do very many NCAA sports, and it does not have any fraternities or sororities. 

Reed students are called "Reedies". Students are often called nonconformists. As a joke, some students say the motto of the school is "Communism, Atheism, Free Love". 

[[Kevin Thorn]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Memphis, Tennessee, Former WWE wrestlers

Kevin Matthew Fertig (born January 17, 1977) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for working with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) under the ring names, Mordecai and Kevin Thorn.

Under the Mordecai name, he portrayed a religious zealot and under his Kevin Thorn name, he portrayed a vampire character along with his manager Ariel.

In January 2009, he was offered a new contract with WWE, but turned it down. WWE announced that he was released from contract by request on January 9, even though his contract did not end until April 5 which prevented him from wrestling for other promotions.

[[Big Hero 6 (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 action movies, 2014 animated movies, 2014 comedy movies, 2014 science fiction movies, 2010s superhero movies, Academy Award winning movies, American action comedy movies, American animated movies, American buddy movies, American science fiction movies, Comedy science fiction movies, Computer-animated movies, Disney animated movies, English-language movies, Movies about revenge, Movies that won the Best Animated Feature Academy Award

Big Hero 6 is an American computer animated supehero buddy comedy movie based on the Marvel Comics superhero comic that has the same name. It was released on November 5, 2014 by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. The movie grossed over $651.8 million worldwide making it the highest-grossing animated movie of 2014, it also won the 87th Oscars for best animated feature.

The movie is about a boy named Hiro. and it is a 53rd movie. He lives in the city of San Fransokyo (a mixture of Tokyo and San Francisco). He changes himself and his friends into high-tech heroes to protect the city. One of his friends is Baymax, a robot created by Tadashi (Hiro's brother). Baymax's only purpose is to take care of people.

[[Lost (Frank Ocean song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 songs

"Lost" is a song from Frank Ocean, from his album Channel Orange. It is about a girl who does drugs and feels lost. It is an R&B and pop song.

[[Pyramids (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 songs, R&B songs, Songs about prostitutes

"Pyramids" is a song by Frank Ocean. It is from the album Channel Orange. The song is about a pimp who falls in love with one of his prostitutes. It is an R&B and electronica song. It is almost 10 minutes long.

[[Allied invasion of Sicily]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 in Italy, Battles involving Australia, Battles involving Canada, Battles involving France, Battles involving Germany, Battles involving India, Battles involving Italy, Battles involving South Africa, Battles involving the United Kingdom, Battles involving the United States, Invasions of World War II, Sicily

The Allied invasion of Sicily was code-named Operation Husky. It was a major battle of World War II. The Allies captured Sicily from the Axis Powers (Italy and Nazi Germany).

It was a big sea and air operation, followed by six weeks of land fighting.  It started the Italian Campaign.  It was followed by the Allied invasion of Italy.

Husky began on the night of 9–10 July 1943, and ended 17 August. Husky achieved the goals of the Allies.  The Allies removed Axis air, land and naval forces from the island.

As well, the Mediterranean's sea lanes were opened to the Allies, and Italian dictator Benito Mussolini was briefly removed from power.

[[Cleanin' Out My Closet]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 songs, Songs about drugs, Eminem songs

"Cleanin' Out My Closet" is a serious song by Eminem from the album The Eminem Show. Its lyrics are dealing with how people protest against his lyrics, his father abandoning his family and his mother's drug use.

[[On My Level]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs, Songs about drugs

"On My Level" is a song by Wiz Khalifa featuring Too $hort. It is a dark song about partying and smoking. It is from his album Rolling Papers.

[[Siege of Odessa]]

CATEGORIES: European battles of World War II, 20th century in Ukraine, 1941 in Europe, Sieges

The Siege of Odessa was a siege battle during World War II. It was part of the Eastern Front area of operations in 1941. It was done by Romanian forces and the German Army's (Wehrmacht Heer) 11th Army (11. Armee). They attacked the city of Odessa in the Soviet Union.

Due to the strong fighting of the 9th Independent Army (initially) and the Separate Coastal Army, and the Black Sea Fleet forces in Odessa, it took the Romanian army 73 days of siege and four attacks to capture the city. They had 93,000 casualties. The Red Army had 41,000 casualties. Some historians say the Red Army had 60,000 casualties.

[[19 (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 albums, Adele albums, Soul albums, Debut albums, Folk albums, Pop albums, Rock albums

19 is the first album by Adele. It was released on 28 January 2008. It went straight to number one in the United Kingdom's record charts. The album was produced by Jim Abbiss, Mark Ronson, and Eg White.

[[Allied invasion of Italy]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 in Italy, Invasions of World War II, September events

The Allied invasion of Italy was the invasion of mainland Italy by the Allies during World War II. The Allies landed on the mainland on 3 September 1943. The invasion followed the successful invasion of Sicily during the Italian Campaign.

The invasion was done by General Harold Alexander's 15th Army Group. This included Lieutenant General Mark Clark's U.S. Fifth Army and General Bernard Montgomery's British Eighth Army.

The main invasion force landed near Salerno on the western coast in Operation Avalanche. Two other attacks were done in Calabria (Operation Baytown) and Taranto (Operation Slapstick).

[[Our Version of Events]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 albums

Our Version of Events is the first album by Emeli Sandé. The album was released on 13 February 2012 by Virgin Records. Six singles were released from the album.

[[San Juan, Argentina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Argentina, Capitals of Argentine provinces

San Juan is the capital city of the San Juan Province in Argentina.

[[Pablo Ruiz]]

Pablo Ruiz may refer to:

[[WWF No Mercy]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 video games, Nintendo 64 games, WWE video game series

WWF No Mercy is a professional wrestling video game developed by Asmik Ace Entertainment and AKI Corporation and published by THQ.  The game was released on the Nintendo 64.

It was released on November 17, 2000 in North America and on December 15, 2000 in Europe. It is a sequel to the 1999 video game, WWF WrestleMania 2000.

[[WWE Day of Reckoning 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 video games, Nintendo GameCube-only games, THQ games, WWE video game series

WWE Day of Reckoning 2 is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ.

It was released on August 29, 2005 in North America, September 23, 2005 in Europe, October 7, 2005 in Australasia.

[[Battle of Gemmano]]

CATEGORIES: European battles of World War II, 1944 in Italy, September 1944 events

The Battle of Gemmano was a battle fought between the German and Allied forces in World War II. It was part of the Allies' Operation Olive, the attack in August 1944 on the Gothic Line. This was the German line of defence in the Apennines in northern Italy.

It consisted of a series of four British attacks between 4 September to 15 September 1944. The British attacked the German defences in and around the village of Gemmano. The village was captured on 9 September during the second attack.

Two more attacks were required to capture the surrounding area. Fighting was heavy. The Battle of Gemmano has been called the "Cassino of the Adriatic" by some historians.

[[WWE Day of Reckoning]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 video games, Nintendo GameCube-only games, THQ games, WWE video game series

WWE Day of Reckoning is a professional wrestling video game developed by Yuke's and published by THQ.

It was released on August 30, 2004 in North America, September 17, 2004 in the PAL region, and on January 13, 2005 in Japan.

[[Battle of Garfagnana]]

CATEGORIES: European battles of World War II, 1944 in Italy, December events

The Battle of Garfagnana (Battaglia della Garfagnana) was known to the Germans as Operation Winter Storm (Unternehmen Wintergewitter) and nicknamed the "Christmas Offensive" (Italian: Offensiva di Natale).

It was an attack of Axis forces on the western sector of the Gothic Line during World War II. It happened in December 1944 in the north Tuscan Apennines, near Massa and Lucca.25-6

In late December 1944 the German 14th Army under General Kurt von Tippelskirch attacked the left side of the U.S. Fifth Army in the Serchio valley. He wanted to make the U.S. forces stay there.

The Allies had ordered two brigades from Indian 8th Infantry Division to be moved to help the U.S. 92nd Infantry Division. By the time they had arrived the Germans and Italians had captured Barga. U.S. soldiers had intended to retreat to Lucca.79 The German / Italian force stopped the attack and withdrew.

Barga was recaptured one week later by the New Year. The western Gothic Line remained in place until late March 1945.

[[Nadir Afonso]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Portuguese painters, Architects

Nadir Afonso, GOSE (December 4, 1920 – December 11, 2013) was a Portuguese geometric painter. He painted abstract art. He wanted to be in architecture, which he practiced early in his career with Le Corbusier and Oscar Niemeyer. Afonso later studied painting in Paris and became one of the experts in Kinetic art. He worked alongside Victor Vasarely, Fernand Léger, Auguste Herbin, and André Bloc.

[[Tirol-Choco]]

CATEGORIES: Desserts, Japanese food

Tirol-Choco (チロルチョコ) is a type of chocolate made in Japan. It has been made since 2004. Tyrol is an area of Austria. When Tirol-Choco's president visited Austria, he decided to use the name to give his brand a fresh image.

Tirol-Choco is cheap. It costs about 10 yen (10 cents) to 30 yen (30 cents).

[[Air raid on Bari]]

CATEGORIES: European battles of World War II, December events, 1943 in Italy, Bari

The air raid on Bari was an air attack by German bombers on Allied forces and shipping in Bari, Italy. 

It occurred on 2 December 1943 during World War II. In the attack, 105 German Junkers Ju 88 bombers of Luftflotte 2  bombed ships from the Allied Italian campaign. They sunk 27 cargo and transport ships and a schooner in Bari harbour.

The attack, which lasted one hour, destroyed the port. Not It was not fixed until February 1944. The attack was called the "Little Pearl Harbor". 

The release of mustard gas from one of the cargo ships added to the deaths. The British and American governments hid the news about mustard gas and its effects on victims.

[[Renée Asherson]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2014 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from London

Dorothy Renée Ascherson (19 May 1915 – 30 October 2014), known professionally as Renée Asherson, was an English actress. Much of her theatrical career was spent in Shakespearean plays, appearing at such venues as the Old Vic, the Liverpool Playhouse, and the Westminster Theatre. Her first stage appearance was on 17 October 1935, aged 20, and her first major film appearance was in The Way Ahead (1944). Her last film appearance was in The Others (2001).

Her first stage appearance was in 1935. Her first feature movie was the 1944 movie The Way Ahead. Her most recent motion picture was in 2001's The Others.

Asherson was married to fellow actor Robert Donat from 1953 until his death in 1958. His severe asthma led to their separation, although a reconciliation had seemed possible just before the end of his life. Although Donat had three children from his previous marriage, they had no children together.

She never remarried. She died on 30 October 2014, aged 99. Among her surviving relatives is her nephew, the journalist Neal Ascherson.

[[John Dobson]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2014 deaths, American astronomers, Monks, People from Beijing

John Lowry Dobson (September 14, 1915 – January 15, 2014) was an American astronomer. He known for creating a design for a popular Newtonian telescope, named after him, the Dobsonian telescope.

Dobson died at Burbank, California on January 15, 2014. He was 98.

[[Danuta Szaflarska]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2017 deaths, Polish movie actors, Polish stage actors, Polish radio actors

Danuta Szaflarska (6 February 1915 in Kosarzyska, Piwniczna-Zdrój, Poland – 19 February 2017 in Warsaw) was a Polish movie and stage actress. She is sometimes called the legend of Polish cinema. In 2008, she was awarded the Złota Kaczka for the best Polish actress of the century.

[[Nasi goreng]]

CATEGORIES: Rice dishes, Asian foods

Nasi goreng is a traditional dish from Indonesia, a place in South East Asia. It is a style of fried rice. The name is Malay; nasi means "rice" and goreng means "fried or to fry". It is also popular for late-night supper sold from street vendors. It can be found almost anywhere in Indonesia. It is also popular in Malaysia and Singapore.

In 2011, CNN International announced that nasi goreng is the number two of their "World's 50 Most Delicious Foods" list.

[[Patricia Morison]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2018 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American musical theatre actors, Actors from New York City, Singers from New York City

Patricia Morison (born Eileen Patricia Augusta Fraser Morison; March 19, 1915 – May 20, 2018) was an American actress and singer. She was known for her role as the lead in the original production of Cole Porter's Kiss Me, Kate. 

Morison died on May 20, 2018 in Los Angeles at the age of 103.

[[Mohammed Burhanuddin]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2014 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Gujarat, Indian religious leaders, Muslims, People of British India

Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin (محمد برھان الدین) (Abul-Qaid Johar Mohammed Burhanuddin) (6 March 1915 – 17 January 2014) was an Indian Islamic religious leader. He is the 52nd Dai of the Dawoodi Bohras. The Dawoodi Bohras are a sub group within the Mustaali, Ismaili Shia branch of Islam.

Burhanuddin died on 17 January 2014 at the age of 98 due to a heart attack in Mumbai.

[[John Freeman (British politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 births, 2014 deaths, Alumni of the University of Oxford, British academics, British diplomats, British military personnel of World War II, English television presenters, Former Labour MPs (UK), Majors, People educated at Westminster School, London, Politicians from London, Television personalities from London, Ambassadors of the United Kingdom

Major John Freeman (19 February 1915 – 20 December 2014) was a British politician, diplomat and broadcaster. He was the Labour Member of Parliament (MP) for Watford from 1945 to 1955. 

Following the death of Morgan Morgan-Giles on 4 May 2013, Freeman was the oldest surviving former MP. He was the last survivor of those elected to Parliament in 1945, and the former MP with the earliest date of first election.

Freeman died on 20 December 2014 in London, aged 99.

[[Choco pie]]

CATEGORIES: Snack foods, American food

A choco pie is a small snack cake made up of two small round layers of cake with marshmallow filling and a chocolate covering.

[[WWE All Stars]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 video games, PlayStation 2 games, PlayStation 3 games, PlayStation Portable games, Nintendo 3DS games, Wii games, Xbox 360 games, WWE video game series, Sports video games, THQ games

WWE All-Stars is a professional wrestling video game developed by THQ San Diego and published by THQ.

It was released on March 29, 2011 in North America, March 31, 2011 in Europe, April 1, 2011 in Europe, May 3, 2011 in Korea, and August 11, 2011 in Japan. It was released for the Nintendo 3DS on November 22, 2011 in North America and on November 25, 2011 in Europe.

It was announced by THQ along with WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2011 at E3 2010.

As of April 28, 2013, the online multiplayer servers are shut down.

[[Robert Evans]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Movie producers from New York, Businesspeople from New York City

Robert Evans (June 29, 1930 – October 26, 2019) was an American movie producer and studio executive. He was best known for his work on Rosemary's Baby, Love Story, The Godfather, and Chinatown.

Evans died on October 26, 2019 at his home in Beverly Hills, California from stroke-related problems at the age of 89.

[[Nguyen Ngoc Tho]]

CATEGORIES: 1908 births, 1976 deaths, Vietnamese people, Prime ministers

Nguyễn Ngọc Thơ (26 May 1908 – 1976) was a Vietnamese politician. He was the first Prime Minister of South Vietnam, serving from November 1963 to late January 1964.

[[Ronald Hunter]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from renal failure, American movie actors, American television actors, Actors from Boston, Massachusetts

Ronald Lee "Ron" Hunter (1943 – December 3, 2013) was an American actor. He appeared in many movies and television shows. He is known for appearing on The Big Bang Theory and Law & Order.

Ronald Hunter died of heart and kidney failure on December 3, 2013, aged 70, at the Woodland Hills Medical Center in Los Angeles, California. He was survived by his three children, two grandchildren, and sister.

[[Mansions of the Lord]]

CATEGORIES: Christian hymns

"Mansions of the Lord" is a hymn. The words are written by Randall Wallace. It is set to music by Nick Glennie-Smith. It was originally written for the 2002 movie We Were Soldiers. The hymn was also used for Ronald Reagan's funeral. It is about mothers and children losing their loved ones, serving in war, in battle.

[[Santa Fe University of Art and Design]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in New Mexico, 1859 establishments in the United States

The Santa Fe University of Art and Design (sometimes called SFUAD) is a private 4-year university in Santa Fe, New Mexico. It was founded in 1859 with the name St. Michael's College. The government gave it a charter for higher education in 1874. This meant that the college had the right to give degrees. In 1966 it was renamed College of Santa Fe. In 2010 it was renamed again to Santa Fe University of Art and Design.

The school has a large movie studio where many movies have been made. In 2013 tuition was $27,996 a year.

[[Hastings Banda]]

CATEGORIES: 1898 births, 1997 deaths, Presidents of Malawi, Prime ministers

Hastings Kamuzu Banda (15 February 1898 – 25 November 1997), was the leader of Malawi from 1961 to 1994.

[[Southern Alps]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges, Mountains of New Zealand

The Southern Alps is a mountain range in New Zealand. The mountain range runs along the entire length of the South Island.

The tallest peak of the Southern Alps is Aoraki / Mount Cook which stands at 3,754 metres (12,316 ft). The mountain range was named on March 23, 1770 by Captain James Cook. He described the Southern Alps as being very high.

[[SM Entertainment]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean record labels, Entertainment companies, 1995 establishments in Asia

SM Entertainment is a record label and talent agency in South Korea. It is one of the main entertainment businesses in Korea. It was founded by Lee Su-man, a former singer. It was originally focused solely on entertainment management. Since then, however, they have expanded their business interests to establishing subsidiary companies and incorporating affiliates. They have foreign subsidiaries, such as SM Japan, Asia, and USA.

[[Lee Si-yeon]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, South Korean models, South Korean actors, Transgender and transsexual people

Lee Si-yeon (이시연, born July 24, 1980, is a South Korean model and actress.  Lee Si-yeon is transgender, meaning she was raised as a boy but later decided to live as a woman.

Lee's birth name was Lee Dae-hak (이대학).  She changed it to Lee Si-yeon when she did gender transition to live as a woman.  In 2007, Lee decided to use sexual reassignment surgery to change her body to be more like other women's bodies and less like men's bodies. Her uncle is Seo Jae-hyok, a member of the South Korean musical band Buhwal.

In 1999, Lee participated in the Anti-Miss Korea competition.(안티 미스코리아 대회) In 2010 she did her first performance as a singer.

[[Bob Backlund]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, American professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from Minnesota, WWE Hall of Fame

Robert Lee "Bob" Backlund (born August 14, 1949) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for working for the World Wide Wrestling Federation/World Wrestling Federation from 1977 to 1984. He is known for holding the record for the second longest reign as WWE Champion in history which is ahead of Hulk Hogan's first reign and behind Bruno Sammartino's first. Signature move known as the cross face chicken wing was said to be inescapable once fully applied.

Before becoming a professional wrestler, Backlund started as an accomplished amateur wrestler and wrestled for the North Dakota State University Bison during the late 1960s to early 1970s. He also ran for a Connecticut seat in Congress on a Republican ticket in 2000 but was unsuccessful. He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Maria Menounos on April 6, 2013.

[[Michael (archangel)]]

CATEGORIES: Angels, Biblical people, Christian saints, Quran

Michael is an archangel in Jewish, Christian, and Islamic teachings. Roman Catholics, the Eastern Orthodox, Anglicans, and Lutherans call him "Saint Michael the Archangel" or simply "Saint Michael". Orthodox Christians call him the "Taxiarch Archangel Michael" or simply "Archangel Michael".

In Hebrew, Michael means "who is like God?". The Book of Daniel speaks of Michael three times. One time, it says he is a "great prince who stands up for the children of your people". Jews saw Michael as their supporter. They are normally not allowed to appeal to angels as a link between God and his people. However, Michael became important in Jewish liturgy.

In the New Testament Michael leads God's armies against Satan's forces in the Book of Revelation. During the war in heaven he defeats (wins against) Satan. In the Epistle of Jude Michael is called "the archangel Michael". Christian sanctuaries to Michael appeared in the 4th century. He was first seen as a healing angel. Later, Christians saw him as a protector (someone who defends and helps) and the leader of the army of God against the forces of evil. By the 6th century, devotions to Archangel Michael were common both in the Eastern and Western Churches. Over time, teachings on Michael began to change among Christians.

[[Harisu]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, South Korean models, South Korean singers, South Korean actors, Transgender and transsexual people, K-pop singers

Harisu (하리수, born February 17, 1975) is a South Korean model, actor, and entertainer. Harisu (or Ha Ri-soo) is her stage name. Her real name is Lee Kyung-eun (이경은).

She was born male, as Lee Kyung-yeop (이경엽). She had a sex change operation in Japan in 1999. She is South Korea's first transgender entertainer.

On May 19, 2007, Harisu married Micky Chung, a Korean singer.

[[Couesnon]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of France, Pays de la Loire, Brittany

The Couesnon River (kwenɔ̃) is a river. It starts in the département of Mayenne in north-western France. It forms an estuary at Mont-Saint-Michel. Its last stretch is the border between the historical duchies of Normandy and Brittany. In the past, its course changed often between two beds. They are on the north and south of the Mont Saint-Michel. In the end, it settled to the south bed. This created (made) the saying "The Couesnon's madness placed Mont Saint-Michel in Normandy" (in french, "le couesnon en sa folie mit le Mont en Normandie"), as the mount is just to the Norman side of the river's mouth, now.  However, the administrative boundary which separates the two regions does not depend on the course of the river. The border is about six kilometres west of the mount.

[[Samoa Joe]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, American professional wrestlers, Living people, Sportspeople from California

Nuufolau Joel "Joe" Seanoa (born March 17, 1979) is an American professional wrestler. He currently works for WWE on the Raw brand under the ring name, Samoa Joe.

He also wrestled for Ring of Honor (ROH) 2002 to 2007. During his time in ROH, he held the ROH World Championship for a record 21 months.

[[Avranches]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Manche, Subprefectures in France

Avranches is a commune in the Manche department. It is in the Lower Normandy region in northwestern France. It is a subprefecture of the department. The inhabitants are called Avranchinais.

[[Schwarzschild radius]]

CATEGORIES: Relativity, Astrophysics

The Schwarzschild radius, or gravitational radius is the radius of a sphere that has certain properties: if all the mass of an object is compressed within this sphere, the escape speed from the surface of the sphere would equal the speed of light. An example of an object smaller than its Schwarzschild radius is a black hole. Once a stellar remnant collapses below this radius, light can no longer escape and the object is no longer visible. It is a characteristic radius associated with every quantity of mass. The Schwarzschild radius was named after the German astronomer Karl Schwarzschild who calculated this exact solution for the theory of general relativity in 1916. 

This radius can be calculated using the equation:

where the gravitational constant G is 6.67430 N⋅m2/kg2, M is the mass of the object, and c is the speed of light which is 299,792,458 m/s.

[[Hong Seok-cheon]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, South Korean models, South Korean actors

Hong Seok-cheon (홍석천, born February 3, 1971) is a South Korean model and movie actor. In 1994, he was a reporter of KBS broadcast.

in 1994, he was a repoter of KBS broadcast, next years he was enter a 1995 student's gag contest, prize third-class and debut actor. In September 2000, he was public coming out, that times he was more broadcasters and drama, film casting.

so assault of more Koeran mass communication, but in 2002, he was comebacks success.

[[Amygdala]]

CATEGORIES: Anatomy of the brain

The amygdala is an almond-shaped group of neurons. These groups of neurons in the brain are called "nuclei". 

The word amygdala comes from from the Greek word for almond. The group of neurons is positioned in the temporal lobe of the brain. The amygdala is divided into three different groups: the basolateral nuclei, the corticomedial nuclei, and the central nucleus. The amygdala is related to the processing of emotions, especially fear. It is connected to many other parts of the brain, including the hippocampus and cingulate gyrus. Information from the sensory systems is also fed into the amygdala. This information is fed mostly to the basolateral nuclei of the amygdala.

[[Pokémon Rumble]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 video games, Wii games, Pokémon RPGs

Pokémon Rumble is a Pokémon video game for the Wii. It was released for the Wii's WiiWare service. It is a spin-off game in the Pokémon series. It was released in Japan on June 16, 2009, in North America on November 16, 2009, and in Europe on November 20, 2009.

[[University of al-Karaouine]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Morocco, Colleges and universities in Africa, Islamic organizations, Mosques, 859 establishments, Establishments in Morocco

The University of al-Karaouine (or al-Qarawiyyin, جامعة القرويين) is a university in Fes, Morocco. The mosque was founded by Fatima al-Fihri in 859. It had a school, or madrasa, that taught students about Islam. It later became one of the most important centres of learning in the Muslim world. It was made a part of Morocco's modern university system in 1963. It is the oldest continually operating school in the world. It is sometimes also called the oldest university

[[Battle of Troina]]

CATEGORIES: European battles of World War II, 1943 in Italy

The Battle of Troina was a battle that happened between 31 July and 6 August 1943. It was part of the Allied invasion of Sicily during World War II. Forces of the United States II Corps, part of the U.S. Seventh Army, had violent battles around the town of Troina. It is in the central portion of Sicily along the Caronie Mountains.

The battle was in the hills and mountains surrounding Troina. The Germans had fortified positions. They hid in these positions and fired weapons at the Allies

[[Joe Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2018 deaths, African-American people, Cancer deaths in the United States, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Disease-related deaths in Nevada, Jackson family, People from Gary, Indiana, People from East Chicago, Indiana

Joseph Walter "Joe" Jackson (July 26, 1928 – June 27, 2018) was an American talent manager. He was the father of the Jackson family of musicians. His most famous son was Michael Jackson. His most famous daughter was Janet Jackson. 

[[Battle of Cisterna]]

CATEGORIES: European battles of World War II, 1944 in Italy, January events, February events

The Battle of Cisterna was a battle during World War II. It happened on 30 January-2 February 1944 near Cisterna, Italy. It was part of the battle of Anzio that followed Operation Shingle.

The battle was a clear German victory. It really affected the US Rangers.

During this battle, many US Ranger groups were ordered to support an attack by the 3rd Infantry Division on Cisterna. The 3rd Infantry Division  had tried to capture Cisterna on 25–27 January.

The 3rd Division's attack was part of a large attack by the U.S. VI Corps to move out of the Anzio beach. The US VI Corps wanted to get off the Anzio beaches before new German troops could arrive and attack.

[[Battle of Wake Island]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific battles of World War II, 1941 in the United States, 1940s in Oceania, Polynesia, Wake Island, December events

The Battle of Wake Island was a battle during World War II. It began at the same time as the Attack on Pearl Harbor. It ended on 23 December 1941, with the surrender of the American forces to the Empire of Japan.

It was fought on and around the atoll formed by Wake Island. It was fought by the air, land and naval forces of the Empire of Japan against those of the U.S., with Marines playing an important role on both sides.

The island was held by the Japanese for the rest of the Pacific War. The Japanese troops on the island surrendered to United States Marines on September 4, 1945.

[[Barbara Branden]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, Canadian writers, People from Winnipeg

Barbara Branden (born Barbara Weidman, 14 May 1929 – 11 December 2013) was a Canadian writer, editor, and lecturer. She was known for her relationship and subsequent break with novelist-philosopher Ayn Rand.

[[Jang Sung-taek]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2013 deaths, Executed people, North Korean politicians, Business people, Criminals

Jang Sung-taek (alternatively Jang Song Thaek or Chang Sung-taek; 2 February 1946 - 13 December 2013) was a leading figure in the government of North Korea. He was married to Kim Kyong-hui, aunt of Kim Jong-un, the supreme leader of North Korea.

On 13 December, North Korean state media announced he had been executed.

[[Atifete Jahjaga]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Presidents of Kosovo

Atifete Jahjaga (born 20 April 1975) is the fourth President of Kosovo. She was the first female President of the Republic of Kosovo.

[[Battle of Guam (1944)]]

CATEGORIES: Pacific battles of World War II, 1944, 1940s in Oceania, History of Guam

The Second Battle of Guam (July 21 — August 10, 1944) was the capture of Guam by the United States from Japanese control. Guam was a U.S. territory (in the Mariana Islands). The battle was during the Pacific campaign of World War II.

[[Robert Schwarz Strauss]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2014 deaths, Ambassadors of the United States, Deaths from natural causes in the United States, Politicians from Texas, United States Trade Representatives, US Democratic Party politicians

Robert Schwarz Strauss (October 19, 1918 – March 19, 2014) was an American politician and diplomat. He served as the Chairman of the Democratic National Committee between 1972 and 1977 and served under President Jimmy Carter as the U.S. Trade Representative and special envoy to the Middle East.

Strauss was selected by President George H. W. Bush to be the U.S. ambassador to the Soviet Union in 1991 and after the USSR's collapse, he served as the U.S. ambassador to Russia from 1991 until 1993.  Strauss has advised and represented U.S. presidents over three administrations and for both major U.S. political parties.

Strauss died from natural causes in Washington, D.C., aged 95.

[[Western Allied invasion of Germany]]

CATEGORIES: Invasions of World War II, Nazi Germany, 1945 in Germany, March events, April 1945 events, May 1945 events

The Western Allied invasion of Germany was an attack on Nazi Germany that was done by the Western Allies in the final months of the European War in World War II. The invasion started with the Allies crossing the Rhine River. Then they spread out and moved through western Germany. The Germans surrendered on 8 May 1945. This is known as the "Central Europe Campaign" in United States military histories.

By the early spring of 1945, the Allied forces in Europe were doing well. On the Western Front the Allies had been fighting in Germany since the October Battle of Aachen. By January, the Allies beat the Germans in the Battle of the Bulge. The failure of this last major German attack took the last of Germany's strength. The Germans could not do much to stop the final Allied attacks in Europe.

Additional losses in the Rhineland weakened the German Army, leaving few troops to defend the east bank of the Rhine. By mid-March, the Allies had captured an intact bridge at Remagen. They also defended the bridge on the river's east bank.

German casualties during the Allied attacks to reach the Rhine in February–March 1945 were about 400,000 men, including 280,000 men captured as prisoners of war.

On the Eastern Front, the Soviet Red Army had moved through Poland. The Russians 

were nearing Berlin. The Soviets also moved into Hungary and eastern Czechoslovakia. These advances on the Eastern Front destroyed experienced German troop groups. It also made it very hard for Adolf Hitler to strengthen his Rhine defenses.

[[The Face Reader]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean movies, 2013 movies

The Face Reader is South Korean movie released on September 11, 2013.  It was made by director Han Jae-rim and actor Song Kang-ho (who has also acted in the movie Snowpiercer) appears in the title role of the movie. It won six awards at the 50th Grand Bell Awards, including Best Film, Best Director for Han Jae-rim, and Best Actor for Song Kang-ho. Also, at The 33rd annual Korean Association of Film Critics Awards held on November 29, The Face Reader also won three awards for Best Male Actor, Best New Actor, and Best Music Score. 

[[Oriel College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1324 establishments, 1320s establishments in Europe, 14th century establishments in England

Oriel College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It claims to be the oldest college at the University. University College, Balliol College and Merton College also claim to be the oldest.  Oriel College traces its origins to 1324. 

The full name of the college is "The Provost and Scholars of the House of the Blessed Mary the Virgin in Oxford, commonly called Oriel College, of the Foundation of Edward the Second of famous memory, sometime King of England". 

The common name of the college refers to one of its earliest buildings That building, which no longer exists, featured a prominent bay window, known as an oriel.

[[Hijra (South Asia)]]

CATEGORIES: South Asia, Transgender

In the culture of South Asia, hijras are people who were born male who have a feminine gender identity and wear women's clothing. Hijras do not feel male or female. There are hijras in India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. The word 'hijra' is often translated into 'eunuch' or 'hermaphrodite'. Some hijras are eunuchs or hermaphrodites. Many are not.

[[Cha Tae-hyun]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, South Korean movie actors, South Korean television actors, South Korean singers, K-pop singers

Cha Tae-hyun is a South Korean actor. He was born on March 25, 1976. He is also a singer, radio DJ and entertainer in variety programs.

[[Nicole Beharie]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, African American actors, Living people

Nicole Beharie (born January 3, 1985) is an American actress. The first movie Beharie acted in was American Violet. Beharie was nominated for Best Actress at the 2010 Black Reel Awards for her acting in American Violet. Beharie played Rachel Robinson in the 2013 movie 42. In 2013, Beharie started playing Lt. Abbie Mills in the television series Sleepy Hollow.

[[Moroccan–American Treaty of Friendship]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century treaties, History of Morocco, Politics of the United States, 1786 in the United States

The Moroccan–American Treaty of Friendship was a treaty between Morocco and the United States. It was signed in 1786. By signing it, King Mohammed III began diplomatic relations with the newly independent United States.

The treaty agreed that free Moors of North Africa would remain free and not be classified as Negroes, blacks, or slaves.

[[One Fine Day]]

CATEGORIES: Children's books, 1971 books

One Fine Day is a picture book by Nonny Hogrogian. It was published by Macmillan in 1971. It was awarded the Caldecott Medal for the most distinguished picture book in 1972. The pictures have bright colors to express main character's personality. Also, it is simple story for young children (aged 0–8) to read. The red fox steals an old woman's milk and has his tail cut off. He starts to find his tail again. This is a short and humorous retelling of a favorite American folktale.

[[Gumi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Gumi is the second largest city in Gyeongsangbuk-do, South Korea. It is in the mid central part of Gyeongsangbuk-do. The Nakdong River runs through the city. Gumi is well known for its National Industrial Complex which was built in the 1970s. Manufacturing is the major industry of Gumi now, but agriculture was the main one before the Complex was built. 

[[E-mart]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of South Korea, 1993 establishments in Asia, 1990s establishments in South Korea

E-mart is the first discount store of South Korea. The first store opened in November, 1993 by Shinsegae. Also, E-mart is the largest retailer in South Korea. There are 146 hypermarkets and 127 supermarkets called ‘E-mart everyday’ across the country. E-mart is the first Korean retailer to advance into China. There are 16 hypermarkets and the first branch opened at Shanghai in February,1997.

There are 4 business areas of E-mart. First, there are hypermarkets and supermarkets. Second, there are E-mart Traders. E-mart Traders is a hypermarket warehouse store. There are 7 locations in Korea: Guseong, Songlim, Weolpyeong, Seomyeon, Busan, Ansan and Cheonan-Asan. Third, there are specialty stores. E-mart operates specialized stores to address specific lifestyle needs. Lastly, there is E-mart Mall. It is an on-line shopping mall that utilizes E-mart stores as logistics centres to offer E-mart products. E-mart stores also provide home delivery service.

E-mart stores offer general home products, electronics, sporting goods and clothing.

[[Mont-Saint-Michel, Quebec]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Quebec

Mont-Saint-Michel is a municipality in the Laurentides region of Quebec, in Canada. It is part of the Antoine-Labelle Regional County Municipality.

[[Gravitropism]]

CATEGORIES: Plant physiology

Gravitropism (also known as Geotropism) is a turning or growth movement by a plant, fungus, or animal in response to gravity. It is a general feature of all higher and many lower plants and also in other organisms. Charles Darwin was one of the first people to say that roots grow downward and stems grow upward in response to gravity.

[[Dr. Mario 64]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 video games, Nintendo 64 games, Mario video games, Puzzle video games

Dr. Mario 64 is a puzzle video game made by Nintendo for the Nintendo 64 video game console. It was released on April 8, 2001.

It was the last Mario game released for the Nintendo 64. It is an updated version of Dr. Mario, which was released for the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game Boy in 1990.

[[Beyoncé (album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums, Beyoncé albums, Electronica albums, Hip hop albums, R&B albums

é'(2013)

Beyoncé is the self-titled fifth album by Beyoncé. It was released on iTunes on December 13, 2013. 

The release of the album made the iTunes website stop working. This happened because there were so many people on the website at once for the album. Timbaland, Justin Timberlake, and Pharrell Williams are producers of songs on the album. The album got good reviews. "XO" was released as the first single from the album. On December 21, 2013 the album will be released on CD and DVD in the United States. Billboard chose the album as the best of 2013.

[[Court Appointed Special Advocate]]

CATEGORIES: Non-profit organizations of the United States, Child abuse, 1977 establishments in the United States

Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) is an organization in the United States. CASA supports and promotes advocates for abused or neglected children which are appointed by courts of law. The purpose is to provide children with a safe and healthy living environment in permanent homes. The program is similar to, but in most states is not the same as a legal guardian (Guardians ad litem). According to National CASA, today there are more than 77,000 advocates. They serve in 933 state and local program offices nationwide. Because of these volunteers, 233,000 children have been assisted through CASA services. 

[[Mac McGarry]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, American television personalities, American television presenters, People from Atlanta, Georgia

Maurice James "Mac" McGarry (June 15, 1926 – December 12, 2013) was an American television personality. He was the longtime host of the television quiz show It's Academic. It airs in Washington, D.C. on NBC-owned WRC-TV. He hosted the show for five decades, from October 7, 1961, when it first aired, until June 25, 2011.

McGarry died of complications from pneumonia on December 12, 2013, aged 87, at his home in Potomac, Maryland.

[[Nehemiah Persoff]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, Living people, Actors from New York City, American artists, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Jewish American actors, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Jerusalem

Nehemiah Persoff (born August 2, 1919) is an American actor and artist. He is known for his roles in The Comancheros, Some Like It Hot, An American Tail, The Wrong Man, and in Twins. His career has lasted for over 50 years. 

Persoff was born in Jerusalem, on August 2, 1919. He was raised in New York City. Persoff studied the Actors Studio. He was married to Thia Persoff since 1951. They have four children. 

[[Compact star]]

CATEGORIES: Types of stars

In astronomy, the term compact star or compact object is used to refer collectively to white dwarfs, neutron stars, other exotic dense stars, and black holes. 

Most compact stars are at the end of their stellar evolution. They are called stellar remnants: the form of the remnant depends mainly on the mass of the star when it formed. These objects are small for their mass. Astronomic objects with an unknown nature are often called compact star, when evidence suggests that they are very massive and that they have a small radius.  A compact star which is not a black hole is sometimes called a degenerate star.

[[Heinz Zemanek]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2014 deaths, Computer scientists, Scientists from Vienna

Heinz Zemanek (January 1, 1920 – July 16, 2014) was an Austrian computer scientist. Zemanek developed the first complete transistorised computer in Europe.

[[Stoner (novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 books, English-language novels, American novels

Stoner is a novel from 1965 by the American writer John Williams. The book is about a man called William Stoner who goes to university in Missouri. The book tells the story of William Stoner's life, his job at the university and his wife Edith. It was published by Viking Press.

In December 2013, the British bookshop Waterstones gave it their prize for Book of the Year.

[[Lars-Emil Johansen]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Greenland

Lars Emil Johansen (born 1946) was the Prime Minister of Greenland. He was the Prime Minister of Greenland from 1991-1997. He was born in Illorsuit. Johansen represented Greenland in the Parliament of Denmark from 1973, a position he regained in 2001 and still holds.

[[Kuupik Kleist]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Prime Ministers of Greenland, Living people

Jakob Edvard Kuupik Kleist (born 31 March 1958) was the Prime Minister of Greenland from 2009 to 2013. He was succeeded by Aleqa Hammond.

[[Abdelmalek Sellal]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Algeria

Abdelmalek Sellal (عبد الملك سلال) (born 1 August 1948) is an Algerian politician. He was the Prime Minister of Algeria from 29 April 2014 to 25 May 2017. He previously served as the Prime Minister of Algeria from 3 September 2012 to 13 March 2014. His predecessor was Ahmed Ouyahia.

[[Jigme Thinley]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Prime Ministers of Bhutan, Living people

Jigme Yoser Thinley (born 9 September 1952) was the Prime Minister of Bhutan. He began his term as Prime Minister in 2008. It ended in 2013. He was succeeded by Tshering Tobgay.

[[Tshering Tobgay]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Prime Ministers of Bhutan, Living people

Tshering Tobgay (born 19 September 1965) is a Bhutanese politician who served as the Prime Minister of Bhutan from 2013 to 2018. He began his term as Prime Minister in 2012. His predecessor was Jigme Thinley.

[[Željko Komšić]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Current national leaders, Chairmen of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Željko Komšić (born 1964) is the President of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He began his term as President in 2013. His predecessor was Nebojša Radmanović.

[[Vjekoslav Bevanda]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Current national leaders

Vjekoslav Bevanda (born 13 May 1956) is the Prime Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He began his term as Prime Minister in 2012. His predecessor was Nikola Špirić.

[[Ian Khama]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Living people, Presidents of Botswana, Vice Presidents of Botswana

Seretse Khama Ian Khama (or Ian a Serêtsê; born 27 February 1953) was the President of Botswana from 2008 to 2018. Khama was Vice President of Botswana before he became President. He was also a pilot in his younger years. Khama began his term as President on 1 April 2008 and served until 1 April 2018. His predecessor was Festus Mogae. His father, Seretse Khama, was the first President of Botswana.

[[Hassanal Bolkiah]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Bruneian people, Living people, Sultans, Current national leaders

Hassanal Bolkiah (born Hassanal Bolkiah Mu´izzadin Waddaulah; 1946) is the Sultan and Yang Di-Pertuan of Brunei. He succeeded to the throne following the abdication of his father, Omar Ali Saifuddien III, in 1967. 

[[Rosen Plevneliev]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Presidents of Bulgaria

Rosen Asenov Plevndeliev (born 14 May 1964) is the former President of Bulgaria. He began his term as President in 2012 and ended in 2017. His predecessor was Georgi Parvanov. Before he was president, Plevneliev was a minister worker for development and public works.

[[Boyko Borisov]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Current national leaders, Mayors, Prime Ministers of Bulgaria

Boyko Metodiev Borisov (born 13 June 1959) is the current Prime minister of Bulgaria. He previously served as prime minister from 2009 to 2013. He was succeeded by Marin Raykov. Before he was prime minister, Borisov was mayor of Sofia, the capital of Bulgaria.

[[Marin Raykov]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Government ministers, Politicians from Washington, D.C., Prime Ministers of Bulgaria

Marin Raykov Nikolov (born 1959) is the Prime minister of Bulgaria. He began his term as Prime minister in 2013. His predecessor was Boyko Borisov. Before he was prime minister, Raykov was a Minister of Foreign Affairs. He was born in Washington, D.C..

[[Luc-Adolphe Tiao]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Burkina Faso, African politicians

Luc-Adolphe Tiao (born 4 June 1954) is a former Prime Minister of Burkina Faso. He served as Prime Minister from 2011 to 2014. His predecessor was Tertius Zongo. Before he was prime minister, Tiao studied to be a priest. Tiao resigned in December 27, 2012, but then-President of Burkina Faso Blaise Compaoré reappointed him as Prime Minister three days later.

On 30 October 2014, it was reported that President Blaise Compaoré decided to dissolve the government and declare a state of emergency. On 31 October 2014, Compaoré resigned.

[[Pierre Nkurunziza]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Presidents of Burundi, 2020 deaths

Pierre Nkurunziza (18 December 1964 – 8 June 2020) was the President of Burundi. He began his term as President in 2005. He replaced Domitien Ndayizeye. 

Before he was President, Nkurunziza was an activist for freedom fighting. His father was also a politician in Burundi.

Nkurunziza was hospitalized on 6 June 2020 after feeling unwell in Karuzi, Burundi. He later had a heart attack on two days later and died at the age of 55.

[[Thein Sein]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Presidents of Myanmar, Prime Ministers of Myanmar

Thein Sein (born 20 April 1945) is a Burmese politician. He was elected President of Burma in 2010. His term as President began in 2011 and ended in 2016. His predecessor was Than Shwe. Before he was President, Sein was Prime Minister of Burma. Sein was also a member of parliament for Zabuthiri.

[[Norodom Sihamoni]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Cambodian people, Living people, Kings and queens, Current national leaders

Norodom Sihamoni (born 14 May 1953 in Phnom Penh) is Cambodian royalty. He became King of Cambodia after his father, Norodom Sihanouk, abdicated his throne in 2004. His father died in 2012. He is also known for being a peace activist and dance instructor. He is a bachelor.

[[Hun Sen]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Cambodia, Current national leaders

Hun Sen (ᜱᜳᜨ᜴ᜰᜲᜨ᜴) (born August 5 ,1952) is a Cambodian politician. He was elected Prime Minister of Cambodia in 1985 after the death of his predecessor Chan Sy. Before he was Prime Minister, Sen was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs.

[[Philémon Yang]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Ambassadors to Canada, Prime Ministers of Cameroon

Philémon Yang (born 1947) is a Cameroonian politician. He was elected Prime Minister of Cameroon in 2009. He left the office in January 2019. His predecessor was Ephraïm Inoni. Before he was Prime Minister, Yang was an ambassador to Canada.

[[Jorge Carlos Fonseca]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Presidents of Cape Verde, Current national leaders

Jorge Carlos de Almeida Fonseca (born 1950) is a Cape Verdean politician. He was elected President of Cape Verde in 2011. His predecessor was Pedro Pires. Before he was President, Fonseca was Minister of Foreign Affairs.

[[José Maria Neves]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Cape Verde

José Maria Pereira Neves (born 1960) is a Cape Verdean politician. He was elected Prime minister of Cape Verde in 2001. His predecessor was Gualberto do Rosário. Before he was Prime minister, Neves was President of the Santa Catarina Town Counsil.

[[François Bozizé]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Presidents of the Central Africa Republic

François Bozizé Yangouvonda (born 14 October 1946) is a Central African politician. He was elected President of the Central African Republic in 2003. His predecessor was Ange-Félix Patassé. His term ended in 2013. He was succeeded by Michel Djotodia.

[[Michel Djotodia]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Presidents of the Central Africa Republic, Living people

Michel Am-Nondokro Djotodia (born c. 1949) is a Central Africa politician. He was elected President of the Central African Republic in 2013. His predecessor was François Bozizé. He left office on 10 January 2014.

[[Faustin-Archange Touadéra]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Presidents of the Central Africa Republic, Living people, Prime Ministers of the Central African Republic, Current national leaders

Faustin-Archange Touadéra (French: aʁkɑ̃ʒ twadeʁa; born 21 April 1957January 2021) is a Central African politician and academic who has been President of the Central African Republic since March 2016. He was previously Prime Minister of the country from January 2008 to January 2013.

[[Nicolas Tiangaye]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of the Central African Republic, Lawyers

Nicolas Tiangaye (born 13 September 1956) is a Central African politician and lawyer. He became Prime Minister of the Central African Republic on 17 January 2013 until his resignation on 10 January 2014. He was President of the National Transitional Council from 2003 to 2005.

[[Ange-Félix Patassé]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2011 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Presidents of the Central Africa Republic, Prime Ministers of the Central African Republic

Ange-Félix Patassé (January 25, 1937 – April 5, 2011) was a Central African politician. He was President of the Central African Republic from 1993 until 2003. In 2003, he was forced out of office by the rebel leader François Bozizé.

Patassé died on April 5, 2011 from complications of diabetes.

[[Idriss Déby]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2021 deaths, African Union chairpersons, Deaths by firearm, Heads of state of Chad

General Idriss Déby Itno (إدريس ديبي; June 18, 1952 – April 20, 2021) was a Chadian politician. He became President of Chad in 1990. He won six presidential elections.

On 20 April 2021, Déby was killed while commanding his army against rebels calling themselves FACT in the north of Chad during the Northern Chad offensive, at the age of 68.

[[Emmanuel Nadingar]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Chad

Emmanuel Djelassem Nadingar (born 1951) is a Chadian politician. He served as Prime Minister of Chad from March 2010 to January 2013.

[[Djimrangar Dadnadji]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Prime Ministers of Chad

Joseph Djimrangar Dadnadji (1 January 1954 – 31 December 2019) was a Chadian politician. He became Prime Minister of Chad in 2013 after the resignation of Emmanuel Nadingar. His term would only last for 10 months before his resignation. He was succeeded by Kalzeubet Pahimi Deubet.

Dadnadji died of a stroke on 31 December 2019 in N'Djamena, Chad at the age of 65.

[[Kalzeubet Pahimi Deubet]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Prime Ministers of Chad, Economists, African businesspeople

Kalzeubet Pahimi Deubet is a Chadian businessman, economist, and politician. He became Prime Minister of Chad in November 2013 after the resignation of Djimrangar Dadnadji.

[[Li Keqiang]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Premiers of the People's Republic of China, Chinese economists

Li Keqiang (Lǐ Kèqiáng; born 1 July 1955) is a Chinese  politician and economist. He became the Premier of the People's Republic of China and party secretary of the State Council in 2013. He ranked #2 in Chinese power structure since 2012, next to Xi Jinping.

Li graduated from Beijing University, with a Bachelor degree in Law, PhD degree in Economics. He joined the Communist Party of China (CPC) in May 1976. He became a member of the CPC Central Committee in 1997 and retained the membership since then.

[[Ikililou Dhoinine]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Comoros, Presidents (government), African politicians, Pharmacists

Ikililou Dhoinine (born 14 August 1962) is a Comorian politician. He was the President of Comoros from 2011 to 2016. He won the election against Mohamed Said Fazul and Abdou Djabir by having the most votes. Before he was President, Dhoinine was the Vice-President of Comoros from 2006 to 2011.

[[El Generico]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Canadian professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Quebec, WWE wrestlers

Rami Sebei (born July 12, 1984) is a Canadian professional wrestler. He is currently working for WWE where he competes under the ring name, Sami Zayn. He wrestles on the Smackdown Live brand, formally in NXT and is a one-time NXT Champion.

He is also known under the ring name El Generico which he used while wrestling on the independent circuit. His gimmick was that of a luchador from Mexico. His theme song was "Olé!" by The Bouncing Souls and Olé! was also his catch phrase.

He has also wrestled for Pro Wrestling Guerrilla from 2004 to 2013, Chikara from 2005 to 2012, Ring of Honor from 2005 to 2012, Dragon Gate, Dramatic Dream Team, and Dragon Gate USA and Evolve in 2012.

On December 11, at the NXT Takeover: REvolution event, Zayn defeated Adrian Neville and won the NXT Championship.

[[JTBC]]

JTBC is a South Korean nationwide general cable television network and broadcasting company. It was established on March 21, 2011 and launched on December 1, 2011. JTBC is supported by JoongAng Ilbo, which is one of the three biggest newspapers published in Seoul. JTBC's largest shareholder is JoongAng Media Network with 25% of shares. JTBC's corporate identity (CI) is motivated by the rainbow, representing creativity and variety. JTBC is in alliance with other overseas broadcasting companies, including CNN, FOX, HBO, BBC, SMG, TV Asahi, K-channel, Al Masry, Al Youm and Standard Group.

[[Sami Callihan]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Ohio, WWE wrestlers

Sam Johnston (born September 1, 1987) is an American professional wrestler. He currently works for the WWE under the ring name, Sami Callihan.

He has also competed for Combat Zone Wrestling, Dragon Gate USA, EVOLVE Wrestling, Ring of Honor, Pro Wrestling Guerrilla, Fight Club: Pro, Pro Wrestling Syndicate, WXW Germany, IPW-UK, Big Japan Pro Wrestling, and AAW.

On May 27, 2013, Dragon Gate USA confirmed that Johnston had signed with WWE. On December 6, he debuted under an evil hacker gimmick, where he used a tablet computer to take control of the lights in the arena, and attacked Kalisto.

[[P. C. Devassia]]

CATEGORIES: 1906 births, 2006 deaths, Indian writers, Poets

Mahakavi P. C. Devassia was a Sanskrit scholar and poet. He is from Kerala, India. 

In 1980, he won the Sahitya Akademi Award for Sanskrit for his poem Kristubhagavatam. He has also received the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award for his contributions to Malayalam literature.

[[John Cornforth]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2013 deaths, Australian scientists, British scientists, British chemists, People from Sydney, Australian of the Year Award winners, Deaths from natural causes, Australian Nobel Prize winners

ChemistrySir John Warcup "Kappa" Cornforth, Jr., AC, CBE, FRS, FAA (7 September 1917 – 14 December 2013) was an Australian-British chemist. He won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1975 for his work on the stereochemistry of enzyme-catalysed reactions.

Cornforth died on 14 December 2013 from natural causes at his Brighton home, aged 96.

[[Zafer Önen]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Turkish movie actors, Turkish television actors, Voice actors

Zafer Önen (1 January 1921 Çorum – 13 December 2013 Istanbul) was a Turkish movie actor. He was known for his roles in Curcuna (1955), My Wife's Lover (1959) and Flying Saucers Over Istanbul (1955).

Önen died in Istanbul, Turkey from heart failure, aged 92.

[[Denis Sassou Nguesso]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Presidents of the Republic of the Congo, African Union chairpersons, Current national leaders

Denis Sassou Nguesso  (born 23 November 1943) is a Congolese politician. He became the President of the Republic of the Congo since 1997. He was also President of the Republic of the Congo from 1979 to 1992.

[[Joseph Kabila]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Presidents of the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Joseph Kabila Kabange (commonly known as Joseph Kabila, born June 4, 1971) is a Congolese politician. He became President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in January 2001. He took office ten days after the assassination of his father, President Laurent-Désiré Kabila. He was elected as President in 2006. In 2011, he was re-elected for a second term.

Forbes writer Richard Miniter documented the wealth of Joseph Kabila, estimated at 2 billion US Dollars in offshore banks in the British Virgin Islands, accumulated in just over 13 years of being in power.

After widespread speculation surrounding his continued stay in office, it was feared Kabila would seek re-election for a third term in the 2018 election. But he announced in August 2018, that he will not stand.

[[Augustin Matata Ponyo]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of the Democratic Republic of the Congo

Augustin Matata Ponyo Mapon (born 5 June 1964) is a Congolese political figure. He became Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in April 2012.

[[Alassane Ouattara]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, Presidents of Ivory Coast, Prime Ministers of Ivory Coast, Current national leaders

Alassane Ouattara (born 1 January 1942) is an Ivoirian politician. He became President of Côte d'Ivoire in 2011. He is an economist, Ouattara worked for the International Monetary Fund (IMF). He was the Prime Minister of Côte d'Ivoire from November 1990 to December 1993.

[[Guillaume Soro]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Ivory Coast

Guillaume Kigbafori Soro (born 8 May 1972) is an Ivorian politician. He was the Prime Minister of Côte d'Ivoire from April 2007 to March 2012.

[[Daniel Kablan Duncan]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Ivory Coast

Daniel Kablan Duncan (born 1943) is an Ivorian politician. He became Prime Minister of Côte d'Ivoire on November 2012. He was the Prime Minister from 11 December 1993 to 24 December 1999 and as Minister of Foreign Affairs from June 2011 to November 2012.

[[Jeannot Ahoussou-Kouadio]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Ivory Coast

Jeannot Ahoussou-Kouadio (born 6 March 1951) is an Ivorian politician. He was Prime Minister of Ivory Coast from March 2012 to November 2012.

[[Ivo Josipović]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Presidents of Croatia

Ivo Josipović (ǐːv̞ɔ jɔsǐːpɔv̞it͡ɕ; born 28 August 1957) is an Croatian politician. He became the third President of Croatia in February 2010.

During the 2010 election campaign, Josipović announced that as president he will compose an opera based on the murder of John Lennon.

[[Dimensional analysis]]

CATEGORIES: Measurement

Dimensional analysis is a method used in chemistry, physics, and other sciences. It is used to convert measurements and to find out something's dimensions. Sometimes it is called factor label method or unit analysis.

Any math done with numbers must also be done with their unit labels.  For example, when dividing 50 miles driven by 2 gallons of gas used, you not only divide 50 by 2 to get a result of 25, you also have to divide "miles" by "gallons", which gives the unit "miles/gallon" or "miles per gallon".  The final answer is "25 miles per gallon".

Looking at the unit labels can help in choosing what to do with the numbers. For example, to convert 2.3 miles to some number of meters, use the equation "1609.34 meters equals one mile" or 1609.34 meters per mile. Using division, the unit labels will be miles/meters/mile, which ends up as miles2/meter, which is not just the meters. With multiplication, the unit labels will be miles × meters/mile. The miles will cancel, leaving just meters.

[[Zoran Milanović]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Presidents of Croatia, Current national leaders, Prime Ministers of Croatia, People from Zagreb

Zoran Milanović (zǒran milǎːnoʋit͡ɕ; born 30 October 1966) is a Croatian politician. In 2019, he became the 5th President of Croatia.

He was the Prime Minister of Croatia from 2011 to 2016. He has also been the leader of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia (SDP). It is the largest centre-left political party in Croatia, since 2007. 

[[Miloš Zeman]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, Presidents of the Czech Republic, Prime Ministers of the Czech Republic, Current national leaders

Miloš Zeman (ˈmɪloʃ ˈzɛman; born 28 September 1944) is a Czech politician. He became the third President of the Czech Republic on 8 March 2013. Before he was President, Zeman served as the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic from 1998 to 2002. He describes himself as a "tolerant atheist".

[[Paul Dano]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, People from New Canaan, Connecticut, People from Wilton, Connecticut, Actors from Connecticut, Actors from New York City, American movie actors, American child actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Movie directors from New York City, Movie producers from New York City, Musicians from New York City, Screenwriters from New York City, Screenwriters from Connecticut, Musicians from Connecticut, Living people

Paul Franklin Dano (born June 19, 1984) is an American actor, director, producer, screenwriter and musician.

[[Jiří Rusnok]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of the Czech Republic

Jiří Rusnok (born 16 October 1960) is a Czech politician and economist. He was the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic from July 2013 to January 2014.

On 6 December 2013, he was recorded telling the defense minister that he "dreaded" going to South Africa for the funeral of Nelson Mandela. He later apologized.

On 25 May 2016, President Miloš Zeman appointed Rusnok as 4th Governor of the Czech National Bank, succeeding Miroslav Singer.

[[Pembroke College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1624 establishments, 1620s establishments in Europe, 17th century establishments in England

Pembroke College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. Its full name is "The Master, Fellows and Scholars of Pembroke College". King James I founded Pembroke College in 1624.

[[Ismaïl Omar Guelleh]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Djiboutian politicians, Presidents (government), Current national leaders

Ismaïl Omar Guelleh (Somali: Ismaaciil Cumar Geelle. Arabic: اسماعيل عُمر جليه) (born 27 November 1947) is an Djiboutian politician. He became the President of Djibouti in May 1999.

[[Mainland]]

CATEGORIES: Geography

Mainland is a term that simply means a large landmass or continent. It can also mean the largest of a group of islands. Sometimes the people who live on the mainland are called "mainlanders". Because of its larger area, a mainland almost always has a much larger population than nearby islands. Mainlander culture and politics sometimes threaten to dominate those of the islands.

[[The Queen's College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1341 establishments, 1340s establishments in England

The Queen's College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1341. The name of the college honors Queen Phillipa of Hanault, the wife of King Edward III. The full name of the college is "The Provost and Scholars of The Queen's College at the University of Oxford".

[[Dileita Mohamed Dileita]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Djiboutian politicians, Prime ministers

Dileita Mohamed Dileita (دليطة محمد دليطة) (born March 12, 1958) is a Djiboutian politician. He became Prime Minister of Djibouti from 7 March 2001 to 1 April 2013.

[[Abdoulkader Kamil Mohamed]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Djiboutian politicians, Prime ministers, Current national leaders

Abdoulkader Kamil Mohamed (عبد القادر كمال محمد) (born 1951) is a Djiboutian politician. He became the Prime Minister of Djibouti in April 2013.

[[The Beautiful South]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 establishments in England, 1980s British music groups, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2007 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, British pop rock bands, Musical groups disestablished in 2007, Musical groups established in 1988, Musical groups from Yorkshire, 2000s disestablishments in England

The Beautiful South were an English pop band. They were started in Hull in 1988 by Paul Heaton and Dave Hemingway. Heaton and Hemingway had been members of The Housemartins. The Beautiful South released their first album in 1989. The first single "Song for Whoever" reached number two in the UK Singles Chart. In 2007 they broke up. In 2008 Dave Hemingway, Dave Stead, and Alison Wheeler started The New Beautiful South. In 2010 they changed their name to The South.

[[Eliud Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, Living people, Presidents of Dominica

Eliud Thaddeus Williams (born 21 August 1948) is a Dominican politician. He became the seventh President of Dominica from 2012 to 2013.

[[Charles Savarin]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Presidents of Dominica, Current national leaders

Charles Angelo Savarin (born 1943) is a Dominican politician. He became the eighth President of Dominica in October 2013.

[[Raúl De Molina]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Cuban entertainers, Emmy Award winners, People from Havana, Television personalities, Television presenters

Raúl “El Gordo” De Molina (born 29 March 1959 in Cuba) is an Cuban television personality. He works with Univision Network. He hosts many positive rated Latin entertainment shows such as the news show El Gordo y la Flaca. He has won many Emmy Awards.

[[Kim Deal]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Musicians from Ohio, Bassists, American singers

Kimberley Ann Deal (born June 10, 1961) is an American musician. Deal is best known for being the bassist of Pixies. She is also a singer. In 2013, Deal was told by the Pixies' manager to leave the band. Deal is also known for her band The Breeders.

[[Kelis]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, African-American singers, American R&B singers, Musicians from Manhattan, Singer-songwriters from New York, Singers from New York City

Kelis Rogers (born August 21, 1979), better known as Kelis, is an American singer and songwriter. Her most well-known song is "Milkshake". It was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Urban/Alternative Performance. Kelis released her sixth album Food in 2014.

[[Mateo Kovačić]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, Croatian footballers

Mateo Kovačić (born 6 May 1994) is a Croatian football player. He plays for Real Madrid CF and the Croatian national team as a midfielder.

Kovačić began his professional career with Dinamo Zagreb at the age of 16, with whom he won two consecutive league titles, before joining Inter in 2013. After the 2014–15 season, he moved to Real Madrid, where he won his first Champions League with the squad in 2016. A full Croatian international since 2013, Kovačić represented the nation at the 2014 FIFA World Cup and UEFA Euro 2016. He is nicknamed Il Professore (The Professor).

[[Ecgfrith of Northumbria]]

CATEGORIES: 640s births, 680s deaths, Anglo-Saxons, Kings and queens

Ecgfrith (or Egfrith; 646 AD–685 AD) was the King of Deira from 664 AD until 670 AD . When his father died he became King of Northumbria from 670 AD until his death. Ecgfrith ruled Northumbria when it was at the height of its power. His reign ended with his defeat at the Battle of Nechtansmere in which he lost his life.

[[All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy]]

CATEGORIES: Phrases

"All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy" is a proverb. It means that if a person does not take time off from work, they will become both bored and boring.

The saying in its current form first appeared in James Howell's Proverbs in English, Italian, French and Spanish (1659). Some writers have added a second part to the saying, such as Maria Edgeworth in her book Harry and Lucy Concluded (1825):

[[St Anne's College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1879 establishments in England

St. Anne's College is one one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1879 as "The Association for the Education for Women". It was the first institution in Oxford for the education of female students. In 1942, it was renamed as the St. Anne Society. In 1952, it received a Royal Charter as a college, for female students only. 

[[Roosevelt Skerrit]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Dominica, Current national leaders

Roosevelt Skerrit (born 8 June 1972) is a Dominican politician. He became Prime Minister of Dominica in January 2004.

[[Taur Matan Ruak]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Asian military people, Presidents of East Timor, Generals, Prime Ministers of East Timor, Current national leaders

Taur Matan Rauk (born José Maria Vasconcelos; October 10, 1956) is a East Timorese politician. He became President of East Timor in May 2012. In June 2018, he became the 7th Prime Minister of East Timor.

[[Xanana Gusmão]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Presidents of East Timor, Prime Ministers of East Timor

Kay Rala Xanana Gusmão (kaj ˈɾalɐ ʃɐˈnɐnɐ ɣuʒˈmɐ̃w̃, born José Alexandre Gusmão, ʒuˈzɛ ɐlɨˈʃɐ̃dɾɨ, on 20 June 1946) is an East Timorese politician. He was the first President of East Timor. He served as President from May 2002 to May 2007. He was the seventh Prime Minister of East Timor from 2007 to 2015.

[[José Ramos-Horta]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Columbia University alumni, Presidents of East Timor, Prime Ministers of East Timor

José Manuel Ramos-Horta GCL AC (ʒuˈzɛ ˈʁɐ̃muz ˈɔɾtɐ; born 26 December 1949) is the United Nations' special Representative and Head of the United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding Office in Guinea-Bissau (UNIOGBIS). He was the President of East Timor from 20 May 2007 to 20 May 2012.

[[Hazem El Beblawi]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, Living people, Egyptian Muslims, People from Cairo, Prime Ministers of Egypt

Hazem Abdel Aziz El Beblawi (born 17 October 1936) is an Egyptian politician. He became the interim Prime Minister of Egypt in July 2013 after the 2013 Egypt protest which caused Mohamed Morsi out of office. On 25 February 2014, he announced his resignation.

[[Pope Leo VII]]

CATEGORIES: 996 deaths, Popes, Year of birth unknown

Pope Leo VII (??? − 13 July 939) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 3 January 936 until he died on 13 July 939. 

He called for Odo of Cluny to mediate between Alberic II of Spoleto and Hugh of Italy. Odo successfully negotiated a truce after he arranged a marriage between Hugh's daughter Alda and Alberic. He was appointed Frederick, Archbishop of Mainz as a reformer in Germany. He allowed Frederick to drive out Jews that had refused to be baptized  but he also did not endorse the forced baptism of Jews. He died on 13 July 939. After he died, he was interred into St. Peter's Basilica.

[[Ronan Tynan]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Irish singers, People from Dublin

Ronan Tynan (born 14 May 1960) is an Irish singer. Tynan was known for singing Amazing Grace at the funeral of President of the United States Ronald Reagan. He is also known for participating in the 1984 and 1988 Summer Paralympics.

[[Mike Dunleavy, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American basketball players, Chicago Bulls players, Sportspeople from Texas, People from Fort Worth, Texas

Michael Joseph "Mike" Dunleavy, Jr. (born September 15, 1980 in Fort Worth, Texas) is an American professional basketball player. In 2013, he joined the Chicago Bulls of the National Basketball Association (NBA).

[[Mauricio Funes]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Presidents of El Salvador

Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena (born 18 October 1959) is a Salvadoran politician. He was the President of El Salvador from 2009 to 2014. He won the 2009 elections as the candidate of the left-wing Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN) political party.

[[Vicente Ehate Tomi]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Equatorial Guinea

Vicente Ehate Tomi (born 1968) is an Equatoguinean politician. He became Prime Minister of Equatorial Guinea on May 21, 2012.

[[Korean paper]]

CATEGORIES: Paper, Korean culture

Hanji (Korean paper) is the Korean traditional paper. Hanji literally means “paper of Korea”. "Han" stands for "Korea," and "ji" means "paper."

[[Isaias Afwerki]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Presidents (government), Eritrea, Current national leaders

Isaias Afwerki (Tigrinya: Isaias Afwerki (Tigrinya: ኢሳይያስ ኣፍወርቂ; born February 2, 1946) is an Eritrean politician. He became the first (and only) President of Eritrea in 1993.

[[Switchfoot]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 establishments in California, 1990s music groups, 2000s music groups, 2010s music groups, Alternative rock bands, American hard rock bands, Christian rock bands, Grammy Award winners, Musical groups from San Diego, California, Post-grunge bands

Switchfoot is an American alternative rock band from San Diego, California. 

Switchfoot was formed in 1996 by lead singer Jon Foreman, his brother Tim and Chad Butler. They originally named the band Chin Up. The band was signed to Re:think Records by Charlie Peacock. 

The band released their debut album The Legend of Chin on June 17, 1997. Their second studio album New Way to Be Human was released on March 11, 1999. Their third album Learning to Breathe was released on September 26, 2000 and received a Grammy nomination in 2001 for Best Rock Gospel Album. On February 25, 2003, they released their third album The Beautiful Letdown. Nothing Is Sound was released on September 13, 2005 and Oh! Gravity. was released on December 26, 2006 in North America and January 1, 2007 in the United Kingdom. Their newest album Vice Verses was released on September 27, 2011.

They are currently working on their ninth studio album Fading West which is scheduled to be released on January 14, 2014. The album is also accompanied with a documentary of the same name by the band. The movie was shown during the first concert they performed of their Fading West Tour, and it was released digitally on December 10, 2013.

[[Luis Liberman]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Vice presidents, Costa Rican people, People from San José, Costa Rica

Luis Liberman Ginsburg (born 1 August 1947) is a Costa Rican businessperson and politician. He became the Second Vice President of Costa Rica in 2010. He was elected in February 2010 on the ticket with President Laura Chinchilla and First Vice President Alfio Piva.

[[Andrus Ansip]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Estonia

Andrus Ansip (born 1 October 1956) is an Estonian politician. He was the Prime Minister of Estonia from 2005 to 2014. He is chairman of the market liberal Estonian Reform Party (Reformierakond).

[[Hailemariam Desalegn]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Ethiopia, African Union chairpersons

Hailemariam Desalegn Boshe (ኃይለማሪያም ደሳለኝ) (born 19 July 1965) is an Ethiopian politician. He became Prime Minister of Ethiopia in July 2012 after the death of then-Prime Minister Meles Zenawi. He resigned on 15 February 2018 after mass protests and civil unrest.

[[Epeli Nailatikau]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Ambassadors, Generals, Oceanic military people, Presidents of Fiji

Brigadier General Ratu Epeli Nailatikau, CF, LVO, OBE, MSD, KStJ, (born 5 July 1941) is a Fijian chief and politician. He became the President of Fiji on 5 November 2009. He left office in 2015. In 2019, he became the 2nd Speaker of the Parliament.

[[Frank Bainimarama]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Current national leaders, Oceanic military people, Presidents of Fiji, Prime Ministers of Fiji

Commodore Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, CF, MSD, OStJ, Fijian Navy, known commonly as Frank Bainimarama and sometimes by the chiefly title Ratu (born 27 April 1954) is a Fijian naval officer and politician. He became the Prime Minister of Fiji in January 2007.

[[Jyrki Katainen]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Finland

Jyrki Tapani Katainen (born 14 October 1971) is a Finnish politician. He was the Prime Minister of Finland from June 2011 to June 2014. He is also the chairman of the National Coalition Party.

[[Colada morada]]

CATEGORIES: Drinks

Colada morada (Spanish for dark purple strained) is a traditional Ecuadorian drink. It is prepared with black corn flour and fruits such as naranjilla, babaco, pineapple, blackberries, strawberries, and blueberries (which give it its color). The drink is sweetened with cane sugar. It is served hot.

[[Audrey Totter]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Illinois

Audrey Mary Totter (December 20, 1917 – December 12, 2013) was an American actress. She worked for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer as a contract star. Totter was known for her role on Medical Center.

Totter died of a stroke in Los Angeles, California on December 12, 2013, aged 95.

[[Pope Leo VI]]

CATEGORIES: 929 deaths, Italian popes, Year of birth unknown

Pope Leo VI (??? − February 929) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from June 928 until February 929 when he died. 

Tradition tells that he was a member of the Sanguini family. Before being elected, he was the cardinal-priest of the church of Santa Susanna in Rome.

He died on 15 March 931 in Rome and was buried in St. Peter's Basilica. He was succeeded by Pope Stephen VII.

[[Korea University Museum]]

CATEGORIES: Museums in South Korea

Korea University Museum is in Seongbuk-gu, Seoul, South Korea. It was established in 1934 as the first university museum in Korea. When it was first established there used to be a separate university museum building. But in 2005, Korea University Museum was moved to the Centennial Memorial Samsung Hall which is on the right side of the main gate. The museum is divided into four floors including the basement floor. There are five exhibition halls including Centennial Hall, History Folklore Hall, Contemporary & Modern Art Hall, Donation Hall and Special Exhibition Hall.

[[Poitou]]

CATEGORIES: History of France

Poitou was a province of France of west-central France whose capital city was Poitiers.

There is a marshland called the Poitevin Mar on the Gulf of Poitou, on the west coast of France, just north of La Rochelle and west of Niort.

Many of the Acadians who settled in what is now Nova Scotia beginning in 1604 and later to New Brunswick, came from the region of Poitou. After the Acadians were deported by the British beginning in 1755, a number of Acadians eventually took refuge in Poitou and in Québec. A large portion of these refugees also migrated to Louisiana in 1785 and following years became known as Cajuns.

[[Kristubhagavatam]]

CATEGORIES: Epic poems, Sanskrit, Jesus Christ

Kristubhagavatam is a mahakavya (an epic poem) written in Sanskrit. It is based on the life of Jesus Christ. It was written by Mahakavi P. C. Devassia. Devassia was a Sanskrit scholar from Kerala, India.

[[Pope John VII]]

CATEGORIES: 650 births, 707 deaths, Greek people, Italian popes

Pope John VII (650 – 18 October 707) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 1 March 705 until 18 October 707 when he died. 

His father was Plato was a curator of the Palatine Hill. This makes him the first pope to be the son of a Byzantine official.

He had bad relations with the Quinisext council of 692 but had good relations with the Lombards, who had ruled much of Italy at the time. Liber Pontificalis criticized Pope John VII for not signing Canons which were really unpopular in Italy at the time.

Liber Pontificalis said: 

He died on 18 October 707 and was buried in Chapel of the Blessed Virgin Mary. He was succeeded by Pope Sisinnius.

[[World Trade Center site]]

CATEGORIES: September 11 attacks, Buildings and structures in Manhattan

World Trade Center site refers to the 16 area of land in Lower Manhattan in New York City, that hosted both the original and new World Trade Centers. The land was originally underwater. The first World Trade Center complex of buildings stood on the site until it was destroyed in the September 11 attacks. The new World Trade Center complex is mostly complete and is built on the site. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey owns most of the land. The site is overseen by Studio Daniel Libeskind, Silverstein Properties, and the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation.

[[River Humber]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of England

The River Humber is a large deep water estuary on the east coast of Northern England. It is formed by the River Ouse and the River Trent coming together. From here to the North Sea (about 40 miles) it forms part of the border between the East Riding of Yorkshire on the north side and Lincolnshire on the south side. The Humber's only modern crossing is the Humber Bridge. At one time it the longest single-span suspension bridge in the world. Now it is the fifth longest. Before the bridge was built in 1981, paddle steamers were used to cross the mile long span.

[[France Roche]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, Deaths from natural causes, French movie actors, French screenwriters, French stage actors, French television actors, Writers from Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur

France Roche (2 April 1921 – 14 December 2013) was a French actress and screenwriter. She appeared in 17 movies between 1951 to 1979. She died on 14 December 2013 from natural causes, aged 92.

[[Ali Bongo Ondimba]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Presidents of Gabon, Current national leaders

Ali Bongo Ondimba (born Alain Bernard Bongo; February 9, 1959) is a Gabonese politician. He became President of Gabon on October 2009.

On 7 January 2019, soldiers in Gabon launched a coup d’etat attempt. The coup attempt failed, and the government successfully re-asserted control.

In October 2018, he was hospitalized due to a stroke in Riyadh. In August 2019, Bongo was hospitalized in London and his health was said to be deteriorating.

[[Raymond Ndong Sima]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Gabon

Raymond Ndong Sima (born 23 January 1955) is a Gabonese politician. He was Prime Minister of Gabon from February 2012 to January 2014.

[[Yahya Jammeh]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, African military people, Presidents of the Gambia, Colonels

Yahya Abdul-Aziz Jemus Junkung Jammeh (يحيى عبدالعزيز جيمس جنكنج جامع; born 25 May 1965) is a Gambian politician. He became the president of The Gambia in 1994.

[[Vano Merabishvili]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Georgia

Ivane "Vano" Merabishvili (ივანე ვანო მერაბიშვილი; born 15 April 1968) is a Georgian politician. He became Prime Minister of Georgia on 4 July 2012. His term ended after his resignation on 25 October 2012.

[[Bidzina Ivanishvili]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Georgia

Bidzina Ivanishvili (ბიძინა ივანიშვილი, also known as Boris Ivanishvili; born 18 February 1956) is a Georgian businessman and politician. He became the Prime Minister of Georgia on 25 October 2012. He resigned his position as Prime Minister on 20 November 2013.

[[Irakli Garibashvili]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Georgia, Government ministers of Georgia (country), Business people, Politicians from Tbilisi, Current national leaders

Irakli Garibashvili (ირაკლი ღარიბაშვილი, also transliterated as Gharibashvili) (born June 28, 1982) is a Georgian politician and former business executive. He became Prime Minister of Georgia on 20 November 2013. He resigned as prime minister on 23 December 2015. He became prime minister again in 2021.

[[Giorgi Margvelashvili]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Presidents of Georgia, Politicians from Tbilisi

Giorgi Margvelashvili (გიორგი მარგველაშვილი; born 4 September 1969) is a Georgian educator and politician. He served as President of Georgia from 17 November 2013 to 16 December 2018.

[[John Mahama]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Presidents of Ghana, Pentecostals

John Dramani Mahama (m; born 29 November 1958) is a Ghanaian politician. He became President of Ghana in July 2012. He succeeded John Atta Mills after his sudden death.

In 2020, Mahama unsuccessfully ran for president again but lost to incumbent president Nana Akufo-Addo.

[[John Atta Mills]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2012 deaths, Deaths from throat cancer, Presidents of Ghana

John Evans Fiifi Atta Mills (21 July 1944 – 24 July 2012) was a Ghanaian politician, a lawyer, a legal scholar, a tax expert and a sports administrator. He became President of Ghana after he was elected in 2009. He died on 24 July 2012 from throat cancer.

[[Jack McBrayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), Comedians from Georgia (U.S. state), People from Macon, Georgia, Emmy Award winning actors

Jack McBrayer (born May 27, 1973) is an American comedic actor. He became famous after appearing many times on Late Night with Conan O'Brien. He won some Emmy Awards. He currently stars as the title character, Wander, in the Disney Channel original series Wander Over Yonder.

[[Karolos Papoulias]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, Living people, Eastern Orthodox Christians, Government ministers of Greece, Presidents of Greece

Karolos Papoulias (Κάρολος Παπούλιας, born 4 June 1929) is a Greek politician. He was President of Greece from 2005 to 2015. He was the Minister for Foreign Affairs from 1985 to 1989 and from 1993 to 1996.

[[George Papandreou]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Eastern Orthodox Christians, Government ministers of Greece, Prime Ministers of Greece

Georgios A. Papandreou (Γεώργιος Α. Παπανδρέου born 16 June 1952) is a Greek politician.  He became Prime Minister of Greece from October 2009.  His term ended in November 2011. 

His father Andreas was Prime Minister in the 1980s and again in the middle 1990s.  His grandfather Georgios was also Prime Minister of Greece in the middle 20th century.

[[Antonis Samaras]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, Eastern Orthodox Christians, Government ministers of Greece, People from Athens, Prime Ministers of Greece

Antonis Samaras (Αντώνης Σαμαράς; born 23 May 1951) is a Greek politician. He became Prime Minister of Greece and Leader of New Democracy. He last served as the Minister of Finance in 1989, then Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1989 to 1990, and again from 1990 to 1992. His term as prime minister ended on 26 January 2015 when he was succeeded by Alexis Tsipras.

[[Gimpo]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Gimpo is a city in Gyeonggi Province, South Korea. Administrative districts are 3 Eup, 3 Myeons, and 6 Dongs. About 300,000 people live in this city. As it develops new town, it shows high population growth rate. There are several attractions in this city such as Moonsoo Sanseong, Jangreung, and Deokpojin. Now it has six sister cities, Shinmin City, Hatek City, Liberty County, Glendale city, Sangju city and Haenam-gun.

[[Carlyle Glean]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Governors-General of Grenada

Sir Carlyle Arnold Glean, GCMG (born 11 February 1932) is a Grenadian politician. He became Governor-General of Grenada on 27 November 2008 until 7 May 2013.

[[Cécile La Grenade]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, Governors-General of Grenada, Current national leaders

Dame Cécile Ellen Fleurette La Grenade, GCMG, OBE, PhD (born 30 December 1952) is a Grenadian food scientist and politician. She became Governor-General of Grenada in May 2013. La Grenade was sworn-in as Governor-General of Grenada on 7 May 2013 as the nation's first female Governor-General.

[[Keith Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Grenada, Current national leaders

Keith Claudius Mitchell (born 12 November 1946) is a Grenadian politician. He became Prime Minister of Grenada in February 2013. He also served as Prime Minister from 1995 to 2008. He is the longest serving Prime Minister Grenada has ever had, holding the office for just over 13 years.

[[Tillman Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Grenada

Tillman Joseph Thomas (born June 13, 1945) is a Grenadian politician. He became Prime Minister of Grenada from 2008 to 2013. He has been the leader of the National Democratic Congress (NDC) since 2000.

[[Alpha Condé]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, Presidents of Guinea, Living people, African Union chairpersons

Alpha Condé (born 4 March 1938) is a Guinean politician. He became the President of Guinea. He began his term as President in 2010. The president before him was Sékouba Konaté. The news reported he may have been bribed by a mining company.

Condé was arrested and removed from power on 5 September 2021 by members of the Republic of Guinea Armed Forces.

[[Mohamed Said Fofana]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Prime Ministers of Guinea, Living people

Mohamed Said Fofana (born 1952) is a Guinean politician. He was the Prime Minister of Guinea from 2010 to 2015. He began his term as Prime Minister in 2010. His predecessor was Jean-Marie Doré.

[[Manuel Serifo Nhamadjo]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2020 deaths, Presidents of Guinea-Bissau

Manuel Serifo Nhamadjo (25 March 1958 – 17 March 2020) was a Guinea-Bissauan politician. He was the acting President of Guinea-Bissau from May 2012 to June 2014. His predecessor was Mamadu Ture Kuruma.

Nhamadjo died on 17 March 2020 in Lisbon, Portugal at the age of 61.

[[Rui Duarte de Barros]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people), Prime Ministers of Guinea-Bissau

Rui Duarte de Barros is a Guinea-Bissauan politician. He was acting Prime Minister of Guinea-Bissau from May 2012 to July 2014.

[[Donald Ramotar]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Presidents of Guyana, Socialist politicians

Donald Rabindranauth Ramotar (born 22 October 1950) is a Guyanese politician of the People's Progressive Party. 

He was President of Guyana from 2011 to 2015. His predecessor was Bharrat Jagdeo.

[[Sam Hinds]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, Presidents of Guyana, Prime Ministers of Guyana, Socialist politicians

Samuel Archibald Anthony "Sam" Hinds (born 27 December 1943) is a Guyanan politician. He was several times Prime Minister of Guyana. Last time from 1999 to 2015. He was also briefly President of Guyana, in 1997.

[[Michel Martelly]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Living people, Presidents of Haiti

Michel Joseph Martelly (born 12 January 1961) is a Haitian politician, former musician, and businessman. He became the  President of Haiti in May 2011. His predecessor was René Préval. His stage name was Sweet Mickey. He resigned on 10 February 2016. 

[[Laurent Lamothe]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Haiti

Laurent Lamothe (born 14 August 1972) is a Haitian politician and businessman. He was the Prime minister of Haiti from 16 May 2012 to 14 December 2014.

[[Porfirio Lobo Sosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, North American politicians, Presidents of Honduras

Porfirio Lobo Sosa (born 22 December 1947), known as Pepe Lobo is a Honduran politician. He was President of Honduras from 2010 to 2014.

[[János Áder]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Presidents of Hungary, Current national leaders

János Áder (born 9 May 1959) is a Hungarian politician. He became the President of Hungary in May 2012.

[[Yutu (rover)]]

CATEGORIES: Moon, China, Spacecraft, Planetary rovers

The Yutu or Jade Rabbit is a Chinese six wheeled rover vehicle built to travel on the Moon. It landed on the Moon in December 2013, and made its first trip on 14 December 2013. It weighs 120 kg and can travel at a speed of 200 metres per hour. It stopped moving after 42 days and stopped communicating after two years.

The Chinese landing on the Moon was the first soft landing since 1976. It is part of China's Chang'e-3 space program which uses the Long March 3B rocket. The Jade Rabbit carries a range of scientific equipment including a radar system which will be able to examine the ground beneath the surface.

The vehicle's name was picked on an online poll in China. The Jade Rabbit comes from an old Chinese mythology story about the lunar goddess Chang'e, who had a pet rabbit.

[[Obdurodon tharalkooschild]]

CATEGORIES: Monotremes, Fossils

Obdurodon tharalkooschild is an extinct species of platypus in the genus Obdurodon. Only one single tooth has been found. This was at the Miocene fossil beds in Riversleigh in Queensland, Australia.

The tooth was discovered in 2012 by a team from the University of New South Wales including Mike Archer, Suzanne Hand, and Rebecca Pian. 

The species lived during in the middle and upper Miocene about 5–15 million years ago.  Wear on the tooth shows that it probably crushed hard shells such as those of turtles. Because of this, scientists believe that  O. tharalkooschild was carnivorous. They also believe that it was twice the size of the modern platypus at one metre long. Its name was chosen in honour of an indigenous Australian creation story for the platypus, where a duck named Tharalkoo gives birth to a strange and fantastic creature after being ravished by a water-rat.

[[Power system protection]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Power system protection is part of an electric power system. It protects an electrical network from faults by isolating the faulted parts from the healthy parts. This keeps the power system working as much as possible.

[[Taipei Songshan Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in Asia, Buildings and structures in Taiwan

The Taipei Songshan Airport (台北松山機場) is an airport for commercial and military in Taipei, Taiwan.

For the commercial part, the name of the airport is Taipei International Airport (台北國際航空站). For the military part, the name is Songshan Air Force Base (空軍松山基地).

[[IEC 61850]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Standards

The IEC 61850 is a technical standard in the design of the automation of electrical substations. The standard specifies several protocols.

[[Current transformer]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A current transformer (CT) is a transformer used to measure alternating current. CT is a part of instrument transformer. CT is used to measure current in a circuit when the current magnitude is too high to be measured safely. It is commonly used in power metering and power system protection.

[[Production line]]

CATEGORIES: Engineering

A production line is a sequence of tasks (or operations) done in a factory. The tasks process materials to make a useful product. An example is an assembly line, used in manufacturing.

[[Distribution board]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A distribution board is a component of an electrical system. It separates the power supply into several circuits in an enclosure. It provides each circuit with its protection system by using a fuse or circuit breaker.

[[Electrical enclosure]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Furniture

An electrical enclosure is a cabinet used to hold electrical equipment. It keeps the equipment safely separated from people to prevent electrical shock.

[[Partial discharge]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A partial discharge (PD) is an electric discharge that breaks through a small portion of the insulation between two conductors. A discharge is when electrical charge that has accumulated is suddenly released (like a spark). A partial discharge does not completely cross the insulation between the two conductors, only a small portion of it in one area. It may happen under the stress of high voltage. It is caused by a small opening (void) inside the insulating material. The insulating material can be either solid or fluid. The charge passing through this insulation is called electrical breakdown.

[[Tim Waterstone]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, British businesspeople, Living people, Scottish people

Sir Timothy John Stuart "Tim" Waterstone (born 30 May 1939 in Glasgow, Scotland) is the founder of Waterstones. Waterstones sells books in 288 stores and on the Waterstones website. There are Waterstones shops in the United Kingdom, The Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland.

[[Decomposition]]

CATEGORIES: Biology, Words

Decomposition, or rotting, is what happens to living things when they die. It also happens to organic material of any kind, such as foodstuffs. The reason it happens is that organic molecules are stores of building blocks and energy. Whatever breaks down organic material uses the energy and building blocks to reproduce itself.

One whole kingdom of living things does nothing except break down organic material: the fungi. Their life style is called 'saprophytic', because they break down and intake organic matter through their cell walls.

A large part of decomposition is done by microbes, especially bacteria. Also common is digestion of flesh by maggots. If insects lay eggs, maggots hatch and begin to feed on the body's tissues.

Lastly, decomposition can take place by inorganic processes. All organic materials break down over time because they are in higher energy states than ordinary inorganic materials. 

[[Tokyo DisneySea]]

CATEGORIES: 2001 establishments in Japan, Chiba Prefecture, Disney theme parks, Theme parks in Japan

Tokyo DisneySea is a theme park at Tokyo Disney Resort in Urayasu, Chiba, near Tokyo. 

Tokyo DisneySea opened in 2001, and it was the second theme park opened at Tokyo Disney Resort, following Tokyo Disneyland which opened in 1983, following the near competition of WhiteWater World. Also, it is the ninth park of the Disney theme parks. Tokyo Disneysea is 176 acres (71.22ha) large, slightly bigger than Tokyo Disneyland. It is next to the sea. There is a large lake in the middle of the park. Tokyo DisneySea and Tokyo Disneyland are owned by The Oriental Land Company They are the only Disney parks in the world not owned by The Walt Disney Company.

[[Pope Stephen VII]]

CATEGORIES: 930s deaths, Italian popes, Year of birth unknown

Pope Stephen VII (??? − 15 March 931) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from February 929 until 15 March 931 when he died. 

He was elected by Marozia from the Tusculani family, as a stop-gap measure until her own son John was ready. Before being elected, he was the cardinal-priest of St Anastasia in Rome.

He died on 15 March 931 in Rome and was succeeded by Pope John XI.

[[Korean Broadcasting System]]

CATEGORIES: Korean media, Companies of South Korea, 1927 establishments in Asia, 20th century establishments in South Korea

Korean Broadcasting System(KBS; Hangul: 한국방송공사; Hanja: 韓國放送公社; Hanguk Bangsong Gongsa) is one of the public broadcasting, which was established in 1927. KBS headquarters are located in the Yeouido district of Seoul. It is one of the biggest South Korean television networks.

The purposes of KBS can be divided into 3 part. First of one is making good broadcasting culture. Second one is creating national culture. Third one is globalization of Korean culture.

[[Caffe Bene]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of South Korea, Drink companies, Coffee, 2008 establishments in South Korea

Caffe Bene is a coffee franchise in South Korea. It was founded in May 2008. The founder and CEO of Caffe Bene is Kim Sun-kwon, who has Italian-themed restaurants named Black Smith and drug stores named "December 24" as well. The head office of Caffe Bene is in Cheongdam-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul. In 2009, Caffe Bene started to gain brand recognition by promoting through the soap opera celebrities such as Han Ye-seul, and Choi Daniel. The brand’s first-ever overseas store opened in New York in February, 2012, introducing drinks based on Korean traditional beverages such as the misugaru latte, a drink made of mixed grain powder. In August, 2013, Caffe Bene grew to over one thousand stores. 

Caffe Bene’s goal is to open 10,000 stores by 2020.

[[Deira]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, Petty kingdoms of England

Deira (Brittonic: Dubro or dyfr) was a kingdom in Northern England. The Anglian people living there were known as the Dere. Deira occupied the area that was later called the East Riding of Yorkshire. Deira was one of two early Anglian kingdoms north of the River Humber; the other being Bernicia, their northern neighbor. In the early 7th century they combined to become the kingdom of Northumbria.  

[[Six World Trade Center]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Manhattan, September 11 attacks, 1973 establishments in New York (state), 2001 disestablishments in the United States, 2000s disestablishments in New York (state)

Six World Trade Center was an eight-story building in Lower Manhattan, New York City. It was part of the original World Trade Center complex of buildings. It was opened in 1973. It served as the U.S. Customs House for 28 years.

On September 11, 2001, the building was badly damaged from the fall of the North Tower (WTC 1) of the World Trade Center during the 9/11 attacks. The building was demolished later that year.

[[Fish processing]]

CATEGORIES: Fishing

Fish processing has to do with fish and fish products between the time fish are caught or harvested, and the time the final product is delivered to the customer. It also refers to the time when fish are caught in wild fisheries or harvested from aquaculture or fish farming.

[[Vinny Griffin]]

CATEGORIES: Family Guy characters, Fictional characters introduced in 2013, Fictional dogs

Vinny Griffin is a fictional character in the television comedy show Family Guy. Vinny replaces Brian after his death in the episode "Life of Brian". In the episode "Christmas Guy", Stewie meets another version of himself and steals his time pad. He goes back in time to save Brian, causing Stewie not to meet Vinny. Vinny has an Italian accent and is kind to the Griffins. He was last seen in "Christmas Guy". He was voiced by Tony Sirico.

[[Naver]]

CATEGORIES: Websites, Companies of South Korea, 1990s establishments in South Korea, 1999 establishments in Asia

Naver is a brand of South Korea’s Internet portal service. 

Naver Corporation stated working since 1999 and it is considered as popular search portal in South Korea, which holds a market share of over 70% since 2011. “Naver” is a combination of the words “navigate” and the suffix, “-er”. It means ‘a human’ who navigate Internet. Also, it is similar to the English “neighbor”. Naver Corporation listed on KOSDAQ (Korean Securities Dealers Automated Quotations) in September 2002 and transferred to KOSPI (Korea Composite Stock Price Index) in November 2008. 

[[SkyTeam]]

CATEGORIES: Airline alliances

SkyTeam is the world's second largest airline alliance. Its headquarters are on the grounds of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol near Amsterdam, Netherlands. SkyTeam was founded or established in 2000 by five airlines, Aeroméxico, Air France, Delta Air Lines, and Korean Air. It was the last of the three major airline alliances to be established after Star Alliance and Oneworld. Though it was the last of three airline alliances to be established it is second only behind Star Alliance by number of passengers and number of member airlines. As of December 2013, SkyTeam is made up of 19 airlines from five continents, and operates with the slogan "Caring more about you".

SkyTeam flies to more than 1,000 destinations in 178 countries, and operates some 15,200 daily flights with a combined fleet of over 4,300 aircraft, including associate carriers. 2013, the alliance and its members had a total workforce of 452,590; furthermore, it had 530 lounges worldwide to serve 569 million annual passengers.

[[Busbar]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A busbar (or bus bar) is a strip of metal used to conduct electricity within an electrical substation, distribution board, electric switchboard or other electrical equipment. A busbar is usually a flat or hollow piece of copper, brass or aluminium. It allows heat to be released quickly because of its relatively large surface area.

[[Electric switchboard]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

An electric switchboard is an electrical device that directs electricity from one place to another. It is usually in the form of electrical panel in an enclosure, which contains switches for such purposes.

One of the more common configurations for an electric switchboard is a series of interconnected electrical panels.  Each of the panels in turn features a series of switches that make it possible to control the flow of electricity.  Making use of the switches, it is possible to adjust the voltage that is transmitted to connected devices, ensuring that the flow is not sufficient to cause damage to the circuitry.  From this perspective, the electric switchboard can be viewed as a way of enhancing the safety of using electricity in the operation of various appliances, machinery, and other devices.

[[Contactor]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A contactor is an electric device to switch an electric circuit. It is controlled electrically for it to switch on or switch off the circuit. It has a relatively high current rating. The control circuit usually has much lower power level than the switched circuit. 

[[Motor soft starter]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A motor soft starter is a device used in an electric motor to smooth out the starting of the motor. This is done by lowering the load, torque and current.

[[Tap changer]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

A tap changer is a component of a transformer. It controls the transformer's output voltage by adjusting its winding ratio within some range of step levels.December 2013 The tap changer can be done manually or automatically and either when the transformer is energized (On Load Tap Changer; OLTC) or when it is off (Off Circuit Tap Changer; OCTC).

[[Variable-frequency drive]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Control engineering

A variable-frequency drive (VFD) is a device used to control the speed and torque of an AC motor by changing the motor input frequency and voltage.

[[Black start]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Black start is the process to start up in a power station from zero, without the help of power from the grid connected to the station. 

Usually, a power station uses its own set of electrical generator to start the plant. This is a diesel generator called the Black start diesel generator (BSDG). This powers up all electrical panels which control the station.

[[Ray Price]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Singer-songwriters from Texas, American guitarists, American country musicians

Noble Ray Price (January 12, 1926 – December 16, 2013) was an American country music singer, songwriter and guitarist. Some of his famous songs were  "Release Me", "Crazy Arms", "Heartaches by the Number", "For the Good Times", "Night Life", and "You're the Best Thing That Ever Happened to Me". He was elected to the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1996 and—even into his late 80s—continued to record and tour. 

Price died at his home in Mt. Pleasant, Texas on December 16, 2013 from pancreatic cancer.

[[Can't Hold Us]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 songs

"Can't Hold Us" is a song by American rapper Macklemore and producer Ryan Lewis. It is from their album The Heist (2012). The music video is nominated for Best Music Video at the 56th Annual Grammy Awards in 2014. It was released on August 16, 2011. The song also features actress Susannah Wetzel, who sings portions of the chorus alongside Ray Dalton.

[[Kowtow]]

CATEGORIES: Non-verbal communication

Kowtow, which is borrowed from koutou in Mandarin Chinese.  It is a traditional prostration common in Eastern Asia. It means kneeling and bowing one's head to the ground. Kowtow is used in showing respect to parents or gods, or as a form of punishment by the parents when one has done something wrong. In the Qing Dynasty of China, the main usage of kowtow was to show respect and loyalty to the king.

Nowadays, people seldom kowtow and bow to others instead. However, in some Chinese weddings, the couple kowtow to the parents. At some schools in Taiwan, students still have to kowtow to thank their teachers.

[[Switchboard]]

A switchboard is usually a set of switches. The word can refer to different things:

[[Alexander Rusev]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Bulgarian sportspeople, Professional wrestlers, WWE wrestlers, Rowers

Miroslav Barnyashev (Мирослав Барняшев; born December 25, 1985) is a Bulgarian professional wrestler, former rower, and former powerlifter. He currently works for the WWE where he wrestles under the ring name Rusev. He is two-time WWE United States Champion. He used to compete under the ring name Alexander Rusev earlier in his main roster and NXT career but later dropped the Alexander. He is the first Bulgarian to have wrestled for WWE.

[[Riders on the Storm]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s songs, Jazz music, Pop songs

"Riders on the Storm" is a 1971 jazz and rock ballad from The Doors. This song has the sound of thunder and rain. It was on the album L.A. Woman. The song peaked at #14 on the Billboard Hot 100 and at #22 in the United Kingdom. It was recorded in autumn 1970.

[[Martin Rodbell]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 1998 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, American biochemists, American Nobel Prize winners, Jewish American scientists, Scientists from Baltimore, Maryland

Martin Rodbell (December 1, 1925 – December 7, 1998) was an American Biochemist and molecular endocrinologist. 

He is best known for discovering G proteins. He won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1994 for "discovery of G-proteins and the role of these proteins in signal transduction in cells.". He shared the prize with Alfred G. Gilman.

He died on December 7, 1998 in Chapel Hill, North Carolina from multiple organ failure.

[[Marie Dressler]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian movie actors, Canadian stage actors, Actors from Ontario, 1868 births, 1934 deaths, Best Actress Academy Award winners

Leila Marie Koerber (or Marie Dressler; November 9, 1868 - July 28, 1934) was a Canadian and American actress. She was born in Ontario. She acted in movies and on stage. Her movies include Tillie's Punctured Romance (1914), Min and Bill (1930). She won an Academy Award for Best Actress for Min and Bill.

Dressler died of cancer at age 65.

[[Callanish stones]]

CATEGORIES: Stone circles, Inner and Outer Hebrides

The Callanish stones  are near the village of Callanish (Gaelic: Calanais) on the west coast of Lewis in the Outer Hebrides (Western Isles of Scotland).

[[Reply 1997]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean television series, 2012 television series debuts, 2010s establishments in South Korea

Reply 1997 (Hangul:응답하라 1997) is a Korean television series about two childhood friends, their friends, and family. The story moves back and forth between their past high school lives in 1997 as 18-year-olds, and their present high school reunion in 2012. It was aired on cable channel tvN from July 24 to September 18, 2012. 

This cable drama depicts the place and time of the story in detail. The background of the television serial is Busan, so most of the conversations between the characters are spoken in Busan dialect. It recreates the lives of Koreans in the late 1990s. Shi-won, the main character, is a huge fan of H.O.T, one of the first generation idol groups. She represents the fan culture of those days. Also, the latest styles and electronic appliances (which are old-fashioned in the eyes of modern-day audiences) of the times are shown to add the sense of reality. Moreover, most pieces of the background music used in the scenes are the popular songs of the 1990s. As a result, viewers got nostalgic feelings and a sense of humor. Reply 1997 was influential in the rise of retro trend across the whole society.

The sensational attention to the cable drama resulted in average ratings of 7.55% in the last episode. The success led to the production of its spin-off Reply 1994, which was broadcast from October 18, 2013 on tvN.

[[Gardens by the Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Theme parks in Asia, Botanical gardens in Asia, Places in Singapore

Gardens by the Bay is an horticultural theme park south of Marina Bay in Singapore. Opened in June 2012, Gardens by the Bay is made up of three waterfront gardens: Bay South (54 hectares), Bay East (32 hectares) and Bay Central (15 hectares). It is a part of Singapore's plan to become a "City in a Garden”. Singapore wants to be a leader in Asia in environmental sustainability and landscape architecture.

In January 2006, Gardens by the Bay began an international master plan design competition to get world-class ideas for the Gardens. The competition attracted more than 70 entries sent by 170 firms, from over 24 countries, including 35 from Singapore. Grant Associates and Gustafson Porter, both from UK, were awarded the master plan design for the Bay South and East Gardens in September 2006. 

Gardens by the Bay, a 101-hectare horticultural attraction, contains 250 thousand rare plants in domed conservatories. There are two distinctively different conservatories: the Flower Dome and the Cloud Forest, designed by Wilkinson Eyre Architects. Both are planned for sustainable cycles in energy and water throughout Bay South Garden. The conservatories are the biggest climate-controlled greenhouses in the world and aim at creating cool growing environments in a pair of glasshouses.

[[Korea Train eXpress]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in South Korea, High-speed rail

Korea Train eXpress (KTX) is South Korea's high-speed railway system, operated by Korail. According to "the Rules of High-Speed Railway Construction" in South Korea, high-speed railway is defined as a railway train that is traveling at a speed of 200 km/h or more in major section and it is designated and notified by Minister of Construction and Transportation.

The construction of high-speed railway began in June 30, 1992, and KTX services were launched on April 1, 2004, making South Korea the world's fifth country after Japan, France, Germany, Spain, and China to develop a high-speed train running above 300 km/h. The total length of railway is 410 km and it links Seoul and Pusan. The major stations between the two cities are Gwangmyeong, Cheonan, Asan, Daejeon, Daegu, Gyeongju, and Busan.

Top speed for trains in regular service is currently 305 km/h (190 mph), though the infrastructure is designed for 350 km/h (217 mph). The initial rolling stock was based on Alstom's TGV Reseau, and was partly built in Korea. The domestically developed HSR-350x, which achieved 352.4 km/h (219.0 mph) in tests, resulted in a second type of high-speed trains now operated by Korail, the KTX Sancheon. The next generation KTX train, HEMU-430X, achieved 421.4 km/h in 2013, making South Korea the world's fourth country after France, Japan and China to develop a high-speed train running on conventional rail above 420 km/h.

[[Hur Jun (TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean television series, 1999 television series debuts

Hur Jun is a biographical drama about Hur Jun, a doctor and author of Dongui Bogam. It was produced and broadcast by the South Korean TV channel MBC from 1999 to 2000. It got 63.5% viewer rating in Korea. Thanks to its success, the Korean traditional medicine industry developed. It was aired by Kurdsat in 2012. Thanks to the great success in Iraq, Jun Kwang-ryul, the actor of Hur Jun, visited Iraq.

== Story == 

This is a story of origin of Dongui Bogam and the author, a legendary royal doctor of Joseon Dynasty. Hur Jun was in a very low social position under Joseon law at the time. As a result, he suffered a tough life when he was young. He met Da-hee who was an upper class but a child of a traitor. She is only one since her father had died. Hur Jun made a decision to run away with her, though, they failed. Thus, the couple got married in exile. 

They moved to Saneum where he met Yoo I- Tae, the best doctor in Jeosun. Thanks to the chance to meet him, Hur Jun got interested in Korean medicine. He eventually became Yoo’s pupil to study medicine. Increasing knowledge of medicine made him a better doctor. He met Ye-Jin who is an assistant of Dr. Yoo with a lot of knowledge of a medicine usage. They were getting interested in each other. 

Through a stormy experience, he passed a test for the medical officer. Due to his low position and high level of medical skill, he got many rivals. However, he was steadily moving up the ranks in the Imperial Hospital. In 1601, Hur Jun finally published Dongui  Bogam a medical book with the help of royal doctors.

[[Gyrwas]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, Petty kingdoms of England

Gyrwas (also called Gyrwe) was the name of an early Anglo-Saxon people. They lived mainly on the western edge of  the grassy wetlands called the Fens in eastern England. They were divided into two tribal groups; the northern Gyrwas and the southern Gyrwas. This is how they were recorded in the Tribal Hidage.

The name Gyrwe means 'fen-dweller'. The territory of the Gyrwas included Lindisfarne, Hatfield, Nottinghamshire, Northern Cambridgeshire, Huntingdonshire, and as far south as Peterborough in Northamptonshire. The area around Jarrow was in their territory as well. The Fens supplied the Gyrwas with fish and gamebirds but they lived on the drier lands and islands nearby.

The Gyrwas had their own leaders as late as the first half of the 7th century. Bede records a Tondbert, priceps of the South Gyrwas. He asked for the hand in marriage of Etheldreda, the daughter of King Anna of East Anglia. Tondbert died shortly after the wedding and Ethelreda was then given in marriage to Ecgfrith of Northumbria. Underkings and leaders of tribes like the Gyrwas probably did not claim descent from ancient Germanic gods, as many kings of the heptarchy did. But they were of high enough status to marry Anglo-Saxon royalty.

For a time the territory of the Gyrwas formed a buffer state between the Mercians and the East Anglians. The Gyrwas were later absorbed into Middle Anglia. 

[[Linear regression]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics

Linear regression is a way to explain the relationship between a dependent variable and one or more explanatory variables using a straight line. It is a special case of regression analysis.

Linear regression was the first type of regression analysis to be studied rigorously. This is because models which depend linearly on their unknown parameters are easier to fit than models which are non-linearly related to their parameters.  Another advantage of linear regression is that the statistical properties of the resulting estimators are easier to determine.

Linear regression has many practical uses. Most applications fall into one of the following two broad categories:

Linear regression models try to make the vertical distance between the line and the data points (that is, the residuals) as small as possible. This is called "fitting the line to the data." Often, linear regression models try to minimize the sum of the squares of the residuals (least squares), but other ways of fitting exist. They include minimizing the "lack of fit" in some other norm (as with least absolute deviations regression), or minimizing a penalized version of the least squares loss function as in ridge regression. The least squares approach can also be used to fit models that are not linear. As outlined above, the terms "least squares" and "linear model" are closely linked, but they are not synonyms.

[[Pope Boniface V]]

CATEGORIES: 600s deaths, Italian popes, People from Naples, Year of birth unknown

Pope Boniface V (??? – 25 October 625) was pope of the Roman Catholic Church from 23 December 619 until 25 October 625 when he died. He did a lot Christianising of England. He enacted a decree which churches became places of refuge for criminals.

After over a year of vacancy, he replaced Pope Adeodatus I. He was described by Liber Pontificalis  as "the mildest of men", whose chief distinction was his great love for the clergy. He died on 25 October 625 and was buried in St. Peter's Basilica. He was succeeded by Pope Sisinnius.

[[Zero tolerance]]

CATEGORIES: Everyday life, Law

The term zero tolerance refers to automatic reprimand or punishment for even mild violations of certain rules. The policy forbids when people of even the highest position change punishment policy or rules. Punishments set earlier are not always severe. Those with sexual harassment or bad Internet uses are usually harsh. The first recorded use for the term was 1972, though it might have been used earlier. In certain schools, zero tolerance applies to any knife regardless of its type. Credible evidence, though, does not support zero tolerance rules having positive effects. In fact, suspensions may result in embarrassment to schools and students or even bad publicities. The policy has gotten criticized for violating Law Enforcement Codes.

[[Pacific plate]]

CATEGORIES: Tectonic plates, Pacific Ocean

The Pacific plate is a tectonic plate beneath parts of the Pacific Ocean.

Note the Ring of Fire zones on the ocean's edges. The oldest seafloor is destroyed by going down into the Asian oceanic trenches. The oldest part disappearing this way is early Cretaceous (145 to 137 million years ago).

All maps of the Earth's ocean floor geology show ages younger than 145 million years. This is only about 1/30 of the Earth's 4.55 billion year history.

[[Millie Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, African American musicians, Living people

Mildred "Millie" Jackson  (born July 15, 1944) is an American R&B singer and songwriter. She released her first album in 1972. In 1974 Jackson was nominated for a Grammy Award. In 2000 she sung on some songs for the soundtrack of a French movie called Comme un aimant. In 2008 she played Claudette in a movie called Soul Men. 

[[Her]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 drama movies, 2013 romance movies, 2010s romantic drama movies, 2013 science fiction movies, American romantic drama movies, American science fiction movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Los Angeles, California, Movies about divorce

Her is a 2013 science fiction romance drama movie set in Los Angeles. The movie was released just before Christmas 2013 in certain United States areas and January 2014 with wide release.

It is about a man that gets obsessed with a female voice from a computer system. Joaquin Phoenix plays the man and Scarlett Johansson plays Samantha, the female artificial intelligence voice. Olivia Wilde plays a blind date.

[[!!!]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s American music groups, 1996 establishments in California

!!! is a dance band. Their name is usually said as Chk Chk Chk. It can not be searched for on Google unless it is written like that. They started in 1996 in Sacramento, California. They have released five albums. Nic Offer is the singer. !!!'s fifth album, THR!!!ER, was released on April 29 2013. 

[[TV Tropes]]

CATEGORIES: Wikis, Websites established in 2004

TV Tropes, also called Television Tropes and Idioms, is a wiki that collects tropes seen in movies, television shows, video games, books, and other media. It started in 2004. It originally covered only television and movie tropes, but has since added other media such as books, comics, video games, advertisements, and toys. Unlike other wikis such as Wikipedia, it covers tropes in a casual and funny way.

[[Ryan Callahan]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, American Hockey League players, American ice hockey players, American Olympic silver medalists, Living people, New York Rangers players, People from Rochester, New York, Sportspeople from New York, Tampa Bay Lightning players, Ontario Hockey League players

Ryan Callahan (born March 21, 1985 in Rochester, New York) is an American professional ice hockey right winger. He currently plays for the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League (NHL).

[[Biphobia]]

CATEGORIES: Discrimination

Biphobia is the fear of or bad treatment of bisexual people. Biphobia is different from homophobia. Members of the LGBTQIA+ community can be biphobic as well as cisgender heterosexual people can be biphobic. Bisexual people may feel like their sexual orientation is less real than that of a monosexual (person who is attracted to one gender). This is internalized biphobia.

[[Goldfrapp]]

CATEGORIES: Electronic music bands, Musicians from London

Goldfrapp is Alison Goldfrapp and Will Gregory, two electronic musicians. They have released six studio albums. In 2005 their single "Ooh La La" reached number four in the UK Singles Chart.

[[Oneworld]]

CATEGORIES: Airline alliances

Oneworld (marketed as oneworld) is an airline alliance. It was founded in 1999. As of October 2017, Oneworld is the third-largest global alliance. It carried more than 527.9 million passengers, behind SkyTeam (630 million) and Star Alliance (762 million). Its headquarters are in New York City, United States. Its slogan is, "An alliance of the world's leading airlines working as one."

[[Nouri al-Maliki]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Iraq, Vice Presidents of Iraq

Nouri Kamil Mohammed Hasan al-Maliki (born 20 June 1950) is an Iraqi politician. He was the Prime minister of Iraq in May 2006 to August 2014. His predecessor was Ibrahim al-Jaafari.

[[Living with Michael Jackson]]

CATEGORIES: Michael Jackson

Living with Michael Jackson is a two-hour-long television movie about the pop star Michael Jackson. In it a British journalist called Martin Bashir asked Jackson questions. The movie was made between May 2002 and January 2003. It was shown first in the United Kingdom on 3 February 2003 on ITV. More than 15 million people watched it. It was shown in the United States on 6 February 2003 on ABC. 38 million people watched it. 

Living with Michael Jackson starts at Jackson's Neverland Ranch. They go to the Giving Tree. This is a tree where Jackson got inspiration for his songs.

There was a confidentiality agreement. This meant that Jackson did not talk about the 1993 child molestation allegations against him in the movie.

In the programme Jackson told Bashir that he had "slept in a bed with many children". He said that this was a "beautiful thing" and was not sexual. He held hands with a 12-year-old boy. Martin Bashir said that Neverland Ranch was a "dangerous place for children". After the programme was shown Thomas W. Sneddon started a criminal investigation about Jackson. Gavin Arvizo, the boy who Jackson held hands with in the movie, said that Jackson hebephilically molested him when he was 13 years old, after the documentary was on television. In 2005 the People v. Jackson trial began. After four months Jackson was found not guilty of all 10 charges.

On 23 February 2003 The Michael Jackson Interview: The Footage You Were Never Meant to See was shown on Fox. In it there were interviews with people who were not in Living with Michael Jackson. These included Jackson's ex-wife Debbie Rowe. In the video Bashir also said that he thinks it is wonderful that Jackson allows children to come to Neverland.

Jackson's lawyers wrote to the Independent Television Commission and the Broadcasting Standards Commission saying that he was "unfairly treated".

[[Bío Bío River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Chile

The Biobío River (also known as Bío Bío or Bio-Bio) is a river in Chile. It is the second largest river in Chile. The river starts at Icalma and Galletué in the Andes, Araucanía Region. The river flows 380 km to the Gulf of Arauco on the Pacific Ocean.

[[Radical feminism]]

CATEGORIES: Feminism

Radical feminism is a type of feminism. Radical feminists are sometimes called 'radfems'. Famous radical feminists include Andrea Dworkin, Catharine MacKinnon, Valerie Solanas,and Alice Walker. Radical feminists say that society is a patriarchy. In patriarchy, men have more social power than women. They harm women by oppressing them. Liberal feminists want to be equal to men. Radical feminists do not want equality within the patriarchy, but they want to get rid of patriarchy entirely. This is so that women will not be oppressed. This is different than Marxist feminists, who think that women's oppression is caused by economic conflict, not patriarchy. Radical feminism says that , BDSM, and gender roles should not exist, because they are part of the patriarchy. Radical feminists do not believe in buying and selling sex acts, which is called prostitution. Radical feminists also believe in ending rape and domestic violence.

[[Andrea Dworkin]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from myocarditis, American activists, American crime victims, American feminist writers, American radical feminists, Anti-pornography activists, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Washington, D.C., Jewish activists, Jewish American LGBT people, Jewish American writers, Jewish feminists, Lesbian feminists, Lesbian Jews, LGBT people from New Jersey, LGBT writers, People from Camden, New Jersey

Andrea Rita Dworkin (September 26, 1946 – April 9, 2005) was an American radical feminist and writer. Dworkin wrote ten books about radical feminism. She was most famous for saying that pornography hurts the women who participate in it and makes men who watch it believe harmful things about women. Her two most well known books are Pornography: Men Possessing Women (1981) and Intercourse (1987). In 1986, Dworkin's first novel Ice and Fire was published.

[[Barry Gibb]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, Commanders of the Order of the British Empire, English guitarists, English pop singers, English singer-songwriters, Grammy Award winners

Sir Barry Alan Crompton Gibb CBE (born 1 September 1946) is a British-American singer, songwriter, and record producer who rose to worldwide fame as the founder of the British-Australian pop group Bee Gees. With his brothers, Robin and Maurice Gibb, Gibb formed a songwriting partnership beginning in 1966. In 2004, he was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire. In June, 2018, Barry was officially knighted by Prince Charles, which allows Barry to use the title Sir. Barry has dual British/US citizenship.

[[Survivor Series (1996)]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 in professional wrestling, Sports in New York City, Survivor Series, 1996 in the United States, 1990s in New York City, November events

Survivor Series (1996) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 17, 1996 at Madison Square Garden in New York City. It was the tenth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

[[Survivor Series (1995)]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 in professional wrestling, 1995 in the United States, 20th century in Maryland, Survivor Series

Survivor Series (1995) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 19, 1995 at USAir Arena in Landover, Maryland. It was the ninth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

[[Survivor Series (1994)]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 in professional wrestling, 1994 in the United States, Sports in San Antonio, Texas, Survivor Series, 1990s in San Antonio, Texas, November events

Survivor Series (1994) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 23, 1994 at Freeman Coliseum in San Antonio, Texas. It was the eighth Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

[[Intermittent energy source]]

CATEGORIES: Energy

An intermittent energy source is an energy source whose supply is not always continuous. Their energy can be stored to use at another time. For example, solar energy can heat water. Windmills can charge a battery. Also, sources that can be controlled can supply power when the intermittent source cannot.

[[Girl's Day]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean girl groups, South Korean musical groups, Musical groups established in 2010, 2010 establishments in South Korea

Girl's Day (걸스데이) is a four-member South Korean girl group formed by Dream Tea Entertainment in 2010. The group members are Sojin, Minah, Yura, and Hyeri. Girl's Day started as a five-member girl group with Sojin, Minah, Jisun,  Ji-In, and Jihae. After Jisun and Ji-In left, Yura and Hyeri became members. They reason why they left the group is that Jisun is going to study music more and Ji-In wants to act. Jihae wanted to concentrate on studying. 

[[Samsung Lions]]

CATEGORIES: Baseball teams, Sport in South Korea, Samsung, 1982 establishments in Asia, 1980s establishments in South Korea

Samsung Lions is a Korean professional baseball team. It is one of the first 6 teams which joined the Korean professional baseball league in 1982. The team is based in Daegu and plays at Daegu baseball stadium. The mascot of this team is a lion called Bleo. 

 

[[Friend (2001 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean movies, 2001 movies

Friend is a South Korean movie released on March 31, 2001. It was made by director Kwak Kyung-taek. Jang Dong-gun and Yu Oh-seong played the lead roles in the movie. The movie is about 4 friends. It covers from their childhood to their adulthood in which they come into a conflict. The movie was almost filmed in Busan and Busan dialect became very sensational after this movie. A lot of actors and actresses in the movie are really from Busan so they have no difficulty in using Busan dialect. Even the director Kwak Kyung-taek is from Busan.

[[I Can Hear Your Voice]]

CATEGORIES: South Korean television series, 2013 television series debuts, 2013 establishments in Asia, 2010s establishments in South Korea

I Can Hear Your Voice (Hangul: 너의 목소리가 들려) is a 2013 South Korean television series. It stars Lee Bo-young, Lee Jong-suk, and Yoon Sang-hyun. It was shown on Seoul Broadcasting System from June 5 to August 1, 2013. There were 16 episodes originally, but 2 more episodes were aired, making it 18 episodes in total.

[[Maurice Hilleman]]

CATEGORIES: microbiologists, Scientists from Montana, Vaccinologists, 1919 births, 2005 deaths

Maurice Ralph Hilleman (August 30, 1919 – April 11, 2005) was an American microbiologist. He specialized in vaccinology. He developed over 36 vaccines, more than any other scientist. Of the 14 vaccines currently recommended, he developed eight:  those for measles, mumps, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, chickenpox, meningitis, pneumonia and Haemophilus influenza bacteria. He also played a role in the discovery of the cold-producing adenoviruses, the hepatitis viruses, and the cancer-causing virus SV40.

He is credited with saving more lives than any other medical scientist of the 20th century. Robert Gallo described him as "the most successful vaccinologist in history".

At the time of his death on April 11, 2005, at the age of 85, Hilleman was Adjunct Professor of Pediatrics at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

[[Cheondoism]]

CATEGORIES: East Asian religions, Korean culture, 1860 establishments in Asia

Cheondoism (Korean Cheondogyo; hanja 天道教; hangul 천도교; literally "Religion of the Heavenly Way") is Korean traditional religion which began during the last year of Joseon Dynasty. It was found in 1860 by Choe Je-U, the first religious sect leader of Cheondoism. At first, he named this religion Donghak, or Eastern Learning in opposition to Western Learning. In 1905, the name was change to Cheondogyo by the third leader, Son Byeong-Hui. In period of Japanese occupation, it made an effort to lead Korea's Independence Movement against Japanese colonial rule and expand it's congregation. Today, Cheondoism exerts less strong influence than before.

[[Korail]]

CATEGORIES: Train operating companies, 1963 establishments in Asia, Companies of South Korea, Transport in South Korea, 20th century establishments in South Korea

Korail is the name of the national railroad operator in South Korea.

[[Korean mask]]

CATEGORIES: Headgear, Korean culture

Korean masks have been used since the 6th century. The oldest mask in Korea is a lacquered mask that was excavated in one of the tumuli in Gyeongju. In the past, the masks were used for shamanistic ceremonies to drive away evil spirits or raise ghosts. Also, they were used for mask plays like BongsanTalchum, SandaeNoli.

In Korea, tal means mask. Tal is an ancient Chinese word that means a face, a tool for face, a mask, etc. The word tal means a mask and disease in Korea. That is why Korean masks normally represent the face of demons or monsters that cause various diseases. Ancient Korean believed that the mask of strong demons can drive weak demons out.   

[[Anyang, Gyeonggi]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in South Korea

Anyang is a city in the South Korean province of Gyeonggi, just sough east of Seoul.

The city has developed along the Anyang Stream, which is 32.2 km long.  The city is divided into two halves; the Manan district and Dongan districts. 

The Dongan district has about 356,566 people and the Manan district has about 216,714 people.  Anyang is famous for Anyang yuwonji and the Anyang art park. It has seven mountains. Mt. Suri is the most famous one.  

It is known to be home to many celebrities like Rain, Kim Jong Kook, Kang Min, Niel.

[[Hyrule Warriors]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 video games, The Legend of Zelda, Wii U games

Hyrule Warriors is a video game for the Wii U console. It is a crossover between The Legend of Zelda and Dynasty Warriors series. It was developed by Tecmo Koei and Nintendo. It is a spin-off game in The Legend of Zelda series. It was released on August 14, 2014.

[[Tatsumi Fujinami]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, Japanese professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Living people, WWE Hall of Fame, People from Ōita Prefecture

Tatsumi Fujinami is a Japanese professional wrestler. He is best known for competing in New Japan Pro Wrestling from 1972 to 2006. He has been competing for Dradition since 2004.

He was the innovator of both the Dragon sleeper and Dragon suplex wrestling movies. He used them as his finishing moves.

He has a son named Leona who is also a professional wrestler and made his debut on November 19, 2013.

On March 28, 2015, he was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Ric Flair.

[[Linear predictor function]]

CATEGORIES: Statistics, Functions and mappings

In statistics and in machine learning, a linear predictor function is a linear function (linear combination) of a set of coefficients and explanatory variables (independent variables), whose value is used to predict the outcome of a dependent variable.  Functions of this sort are standard in linear regression, where the coefficients are termed regression coefficients. However, they also occur in various types of linear classifiers (e.g. logistic regression, perceptrons, support vector machines, and linear discriminant analysis), as well as in various other models, such as principal component analysis and factor analysis.  In many of these models, the coefficients are referred to as "weights".

[[Dere Street]]

CATEGORIES: Roman roads in Britain

Dere Street (later Via Regia in Scotland) was a Roman road in Britain. It ran between Eboracum (York) and 

the Antonine Wall at Bo'ness (Veluniate), in what is now Scotland. 

Dere Street still exists as the route of major roads, including the A1 and A68  just north of Corbridge. 

Its name comes from the post Roman Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Deira, through which the first part of its route lies. It was sometimes referred to as "Watling Street" and marked on some maps as such. This can cause it to be confused with the Watling Street that linked Dover with Wroxeter.

[[Chris Furrh]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Texas, 1974 births, Living people, American movie actors

Chris Furrh (born December 18, 1974) is an American actor. He was born in San Marcos, Texas. He is most famous for starring as Jack in the 1990 movie version of Lord of the Flies. After Lord of the Flies, he played the role of Nick Bankston in the 1990 television movie A Family for Joe. He played another castaway teenager in Exile. Furrh has since retired from acting.

[[Simplex algorithm]]

CATEGORIES: Combinatorial optimization

The Simplex algorithm is an algorithm which is used to solve problems of Linear programming or linear optimization. It was first used by George Dantzig in 1947, but other people like Kantorovich laid the foundations in 1939. The algorithm runs in two steps:

Step 2 is run multiple times: Each time, a given solution is improved, until this is no longer possible.

[[East 17]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 establishments in England, 1990s British music groups, 2000s British music groups, 2010s British music groups, English boy bands, Musical groups established in 1991, Musical groups from London

East 17 are an English boy band. They have sold 18 million records worldwide. Their first album Walthamstow went straight to number one in the UK. In 1994 they released the single "Stay Another Day". It was their only number one single. The band started in 1991 in Walthamstow, London with four members. 

[[Suicide of Amanda Todd]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 deaths, British Columbia, Suicides by hanging, Suicides in Canada

Amanda Michelle Todd (born November 27, 1996) committed suicide on October 10, 2012 at the age of 15 at her home in Port Coquitlam, British Columbia, Canada. She was a sophomore when she died. On September 7, 2012, she posted a video on YouTube called My Story: Struggling, bullying, suicide and self-harm. Todd's suicide was written about in lots of newspapers. Many news websites linked to Todd's video. It had 1,600,000 views by October 13, 2012. Todd's death made people pay attention to the issue of cyberbullying. People made memorial pages for Todd on Facebook. Some people posted mean comments on them.

[[Janet Rowley]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from ovarian cancer, American geneticists, Female scientists, Scientists from New York City

Janet Davison Rowley (April 5, 1925 - December 17, 2013) was an American geneticist. She was the first scientist to identify a chromosomal translocation as the cause of leukemia and other cancers in humans.

Rowley died at the age of 88 from complications of ovarian cancer. 

[[Ronnie Biggs]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2013 deaths, Criminals from London, Disease-related deaths in England, Great Train Robbers

Ronald Arthur "Ronnie" Biggs (8 August 1929 – 18 December 2013) was a British robber. He is took part in the Great Train Robbery of 1963. The robbery happened on his birthday. 

Biggs was born in Stockwell, Lambeth, London. He escaped from prison in 1965 and lived as a fugitive for 36 years. In 2001, he chose to return to the United Kingdom and spent the next eight years in prison. 

Biggs was released from prison on compassionate grounds on 6 August 2009. He died in Barnet, London, aged 84. His cause of death was not released.

[[HM Prison Wakefield]]

CATEGORIES: 1594 establishments, Buildings and structures in England, Prisons, West Yorkshire, 1590s establishments in England

Her Majesty's Prison Wakefield is a Category A prison for men in Wakefield in England. Category A means that the prison is for the most dangerous criminals. It was built in 1594. It has about 740 prisoners. Harold Shipman was a prisoner there until he committed suicide in 2004. Ian Watkins was also a prisoner there.

[[Bruce Reynolds]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2013 deaths, British people convicted of assault, British people convicted of drug offences, Criminals from London, Drug dealers, Great Train Robbers

Bruce Richard Reynolds (7 September 1931 – 28 February 2013) was a British criminal. He led the Great Train Robbery of 1963. At the time it was Britain's largest robbery. He stole an amount equal to £41 million today (2013). Reynolds spent five years on the run from police. He was imprisoned for 25 years in 1969. He was released in 1978. He wrote three books and performed with the band Alabama 3, for whom his son, Nick, plays.

Reynolds was born in Strand, London. He also had convictions for assault and supplying drugs.

He died in Croydon, London, at the age of 81.

[[Buster Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2013 deaths, Criminals from London, Great Train Robbers, Suicides by hanging in the United Kingdom

Ronald Christopher Edwards (27 January 1931 – 28 November 1994), known as Buster Edwards, was a British career criminal. He was born in Lambeth, London. He was a member of the gang of the Great Train Robbery. He had also been a boxer and nightclub owner. Edwards was in prison for nine years.

[[Brian Field]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 1979 deaths, Road accident deaths in the United Kingdom, British criminals, Great Train Robbers, People from London

Brian Field (15 December 1934 – 27 April 1979) was a British clerk and criminal. He was one of the people who organised the Great Train Robbery of 1963.

Fields died in a car crash in London. He was aged 44. His wife also died in the crash.

[[Charlie Wilson (criminal)]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 1990 deaths, Criminals from London, English murder victims, Great Train Robbers, Murders by firearm

Charles Frederick "Charlie" Wilson (30 June 1932 – 23 April 1990) was a British criminal. He was born in Battersea, London. He was a member of the Great Train Robbery gang. He was shot dead by a hitman on a bicycle in 1990 when he was living in Marbella, Spain.

[[Operation Uphold Democracy]]

CATEGORIES: Conflicts, 20th centuy in Haiti, 1995 in the United States, 1994 in the United States, 20th century in Poland, 20th century in Argentina

Operation Uphold Democracy was a military operation in Haiti. It was led by the United States, with help from Argentina and Poland. It lasted from 19 September 1994, to 31 March 1995.

In 1991, the Haitian army overthrew Haiti's legally elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, and created a new military government. The goal of Operation Uphold Democracy was to remove this military government and bring President Aristide back to power. The operation was protected and supported by the United Nations through Security Council Resolution 940, passed on 31 July 1994.

Operation Uphold Democracy was successful, bringing President Aristide back into control of the Haitian government.

[[Connemara]]

CATEGORIES: County Galway, Districts

Connemara (Conamara) is a district in the west of the Republic of Ireland. The Owenglin River flows into the sea at An Clochán/Clifden.  At first, Connemara was divided into North and South Connemara. The mountains of the Twelve Bens and the Owenglin River were the natural boundaries between the two parts.

Actor Peter O'Toole was born here in 1932.

[[County Galway]]

CATEGORIES: County Galway, Districts

County Galway (Contae na Gaillimhe) is a county in Ireland. It is in the West Region and is also part of the province of Connacht. It is named after the city of Galway. The population of the county is 250,541 according to the 2011 census.

[[West Riding of Yorkshire]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, Yorkshire

The West Riding of Yorkshire is one of the three historic subdivisions of Yorkshire, England. From 1889 to 1974 the administrative county, County of York, West Riding (abbreviated: County of York (WR)) (the area under the control of West Riding County Council), was based closely on the historic boundaries. The lieutenancy at that time included the City of York and as such was named West Riding of the County of York and the County of the City of York.3

Its boundaries roughly correspond to the present ceremonial counties of West Yorkshire, South Yorkshire and the Craven, Harrogate and Selby districts of North Yorkshire, along with smaller parts in Lancashire (for example, the parishes of Barnoldswick, Bracewell, Brogden and Salterforth became part of the Pendle district of Lancashire and the parishes of Great Mitton, Newsholme and Bowland Forest Low became part of the Ribble Valley district also in Lancashire), Cumbria, Greater Manchester and, since 1996, the unitary East Riding of Yorkshire.

[[Venus (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 comedy-drama movies, British comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by Roger Michell

Venus is a British comedy-drama movie. It stars Peter O'Toole, Leslie Phillips, Vanessa Redgrave, Richard Griffiths, and Jodie Whittaker. It is directed by Roger Michell and written by Hanif Kureishi. It was released to positive reviews on December 21, 2006.

[[Smart grid]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

The smart grid is a modern electrical grid that uses communication and information technology to collect information from the behavior of its customers. This is done so that it can automatically work itself to be more efficient and reliable in distributing electricity.

[[Invoice]]

CATEGORIES: Business, Documents

An invoice is a document used in commerce, particularly in retail. It is made by a person or company who is selling something to a customer (or "buyer"). The invoice is given to the customer as a request for payment. It lists the goods or service provided to the customer, along with the price being charged for each of them.

Once the customer has paid for the goods or services, they may be given a receipt. The receipt is the customer's proof that they have paid for the products. A receipt is not the same thing as an invoice.

From the seller's point of view, an invoice is called the sales invoice. From the buyer's point of view, an invoice is called the purchase invoice.

[[Stan Stennett]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2013 deaths, Welsh movie actors, Welsh television actors, Welsh stage actors, Welsh musicians, Jazz musicians, Comedians

Stanley Llewelyn Stennett (30 July 1925 – 26 November 2013) was a Welsh comedian, actor and jazz musician. He was known for his roles in Coronation Street and Casualty.

Stennett died in hospital in Cardiff, at the age of 88.

[[Elmet]]

CATEGORIES: Petty kingdoms of England, History of the British Isles, Celtic peoples

Elmet (Elfed) was an independent Brittonic kingdom. It occupied the area of what was later the West Riding of Yorkshire. Elmet appears in records during the Early Middle Ages between the 5th century and early 7th century. Its neighbor to the east was the Anglian kingdom of Deira. The Anglian kingdom of Mercia was to the south. To the west it bordered on the Irish Sea. Elmet was the last surviving British kingdom in the early Anglo-Saxon period.

[[Elmet (UK Parliament constituency)]]

CATEGORIES: Constituencies in the United Kingdom

Elmet was a county constituency in West Yorkshire. This is seat in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by a simple majority of votes.

From 1997 the MP (member of Parliament) was Colin Burgon of Labour. Burgon did not stand in the 2010 general election. The constituency was created in 1983 to cover the far eastern wards of Leeds and neighbouring areas.

[[The Addams Family]]

The Addams Family is a group of characters in scary cartoons by Charles Addams. It might also mean:

[[Electrical machine]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity, Machines

An electrical machine is an electrical device that changes energy from one form to another, usually from mechanical energy to electrical energy or from electrical energy to mechanical energy.

[[Gaia (spacecraft)]]

CATEGORIES: ESA spacecraft

Gaia is a space observatory. It was launched by the European Space Agency (ESA) on 19 December 2013.  The mission aims to compile a 3D space catalogue of about one billion astronomical objects. 

It will study about 1% of the Milky way population. A successor to the Hipparcos mission, it is part of ESA's Horizon 2000 Plus long-term scientific program. Gaia will monitor each of its target stars about 70 times over a period of five years.

Gaia will create an extremely precise three-dimensional map of stars throughout the Milky Way galaxy and map their motions. This data is a product of the origin and subsequent evolution of the Milky Way. The spectroscopic measurements will find the physical properties of each star observed, their luminosity, temperature, gravity and elemental composition. Distances to about 20 million stars will be measured by annual parallax. 

The massive stellar census will provide the basic observational data. With the data, astronomers hope to tackle a range of important problems, like the origin, structure, and evolutionary history of our galaxy. Large numbers of quasars, galaxies, extrasolar planets and Solar System bodies will be measured at the same time.

Gaia was launched using a Soyuz rocket from its Guiana Space Centre (GSC) in French Guiana. It is in a Lissajous orbit around the Sun–Earth L2 Lagrangian point. As of April 2018 it has measured approximately a billion stars and other objects.

[[Space observatory]]

CATEGORIES: Space telescopes

A space observatory or a space telescope is any instrument (such as a telescope) in outer space which is used for observation of distant objects. Planets, stars, galaxies, and other outer space objects may be viewed and recorded.  This category does not include observatories in space which are pointed toward the earth for the purpose of reconnaissance, meteorology and other types of information gathering.

All observation of space from Earth is filtered through the Earth's atmosphere. The atmosphere filters and distorts what is seen and recorded. 

Satellite-based telescopes opened up the Universe to human eyes. Turbulence in the Earth's atmosphere blurs images taken by ground-based telescopes, an effect known as seeing.  It is this effect that makes stars "twinkle" in the sky.  As a result, the pictures taken by satellite telescopes in visible light (for example, by the Hubble Space Telescope) are much clearer than Earth-based telescopes, even though Earth-based telescopes are very large.

Space-based astronomy is vital for frequency ranges outside the optical and radio windows. For example, X-ray astronomy is nearly impossible when done from the Earth. It has reached its present importance in astronomy due to orbiting X-ray telescopes. Infrared and ultraviolet are also largely blocked by the atmosphere. Most space observatories are in low Earth orbit.

[[Leeds City College]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in England, Colleges and universities in England, Leeds

Leeds City College is a college in the City of Leeds, West Yorkshire, England. It is for further education, that is, education after finishing the compulsory years of secondary school. It is the largest college for further education in Leeds. It has around 57,000 students, and 2,300 staff. It makes about £78 million each year.

[[Curve fitting]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematical approximation

Curve fitting is constructing a mathematical function which best fits a set of data points.

Curve fitting may involve either interpolation or smoothing. Using interpolation requires an exact fit to the data. With smoothing, a "smooth" function is constructed, that fit the data approximately. A related topic is regression analysis, which focuses more on questions of statistical inference such as how much uncertainty is present in a curve that is fit to data observed with random errors.

Fitted curves can be used to help data visualization, to guess values of a function where no data is available, and to summarize the relationships among two or more variables.  Extrapolation refers to the use of a fitted curve beyond the range of the observed data. This is subject to a degree of uncertainty, since it may reflect the method used to construct the curve as much as it reflects the observed data.

[[Common Brittonic]]

CATEGORIES: History of the United Kingdom, Indo-European languages, 6th-century disestablishments

Common Brittonic (also called Common Brythonic, British, Old Brythonic, or Old Brittonic) was an ancient language spoken in Britain. It was the language of the Celtic people known as the Britons. By the 6th century it split into several Brittonic languages: Welsh, Cumbric, Cornish, and Breton.

Common Brittonic is descended from Proto-Celtic, a hypothetical parent language. By the first half of the first millennium BC it was already dividing into separate dialects or languages. There is some evidence that the Pictish language may have had close ties to Common Brittonic and might be a fifth branch.

Evidence from Welsh shows a great influence from Latin on Common Brittonic during the Roman period. This is particularly true of the Church and Christianity, which are nearly all Latin derivatives. Common Brittonic was replaced in most of Scotland by Gaelic. South of the Firth of Forth it was replaced by Old English (which later developed into Scots). Common Brittonic survived into the Middle Ages in Southern Scotland and Cumbria. Common Brittonic was gradually replaced by English throughout England. In the north of England, Cumbric disappeared as late as the 13th century. In the south, the Cornish was a dead language by the 19th century. There were some attempts to revitalize it have met with some success.

[[NES Remix]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 video games, Wii U games

NES Remix is a video game for the Wii U console. It was developed by indieszero and published by Nintendo. It was released on December 18, 2013. In this game, the player has to complete challenges in Nintendo Entertainment System games. For example, the player may have to defeat a number of enemies in Super Mario Bros. while under a time limit.

[[Worms Cathedral]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Rhineland-Palatinate, Cathedrals in Germany, Worms, Germany

The Cathedral of St Peter (Wormser Dom) is a church in Worms, southern Germany. It was the seat of the Catholic Bishopric (diocese) of Worms before it broke up in 1800. Today, the former cathedral is a Catholic parish church and "basilica minor". Worms Cathedral is where Martin Luther presented his theses on reforms to church authorities.

[[Trinity Church, Worms]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Rhineland-Palatinate, Protestant churches in Germany, Worms, Germany

The Holy Trinity Church (German: Dreifaltigkeitskirche) is the largest Protestant church in Worms, Germany. It was built between 1701 and 1717. The baroque hall building is centrally located on the market square and is very close to the cathedral.

[[Hammer Bro.]]

CATEGORIES: Mario series characters

Hammer Bro., also called Hammer Brothers or Hammer Bros., is an enemy from the Mario series of video games. It is a type of Koopa Troopa that walks on two feet and attacks by throwing hammers at the player character. There are different types of Hammer Bro. that are named after the attack that they use, such as the Boomerang Bro. and the Fire Bro. The Hammer Bro. has appeared in many Mario games since its first appearance in Super Mario Bros., including spin-off games such as the Mario Party games.

[[Rassilon]]

CATEGORIES: Doctor Who characters

Rassilon is a fictional character in the British television series Doctor Who. He is the founder of the Time Lords.

[[Greg Montgomery]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2020 deaths, American football punters, Baltimore Ravens players, Detroit Lions players, People with bipolar disorder, Sportspeople from New Jersey

Greg Montgomery (October 29, 1964 – August 23, 2020) was an American football punter. He played nine seasons in the National Football League (NFL). He played for the Houston Oilers from 1988 to 1993, Detroit Lions in 1994 and the Baltimore Ravens from 1996 to 1997.

Montgomery was born in Morristown, New Jersey.

He was drafted out of Michigan State University by the Houston Oilers in 1988. He retired in 1997. He was on the All-Time team for Michigan State University.

He was diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 1997.

Montgomery died on August 23, 2020 in Grand Rapids, Michigan at the age of 55.

[[Buchi Emecheta]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Members of the Order of the British Empire, Nigerian writers, People from Lagos

Buchi Emecheta OBE (21 July 1944, in Yaba, Lagos – 25 January 2017 in London) was a Nigerian writer. Her first novel, In the Ditch, was published in 1972. Her second novel was published in 1974. The novel is set in London, where Emecheta lived when she wrote it. Emecheta's most well known novel is The Joys of Motherhood.

[[João Havelange]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2016 deaths, 1936 Summer Olympics, 1952 Summer Olympics, Brazilian Olympians, Centenarians, People from Rio de Janeiro, Presidents of FIFA, Swimmers, Brazilian water polo players

Jean-Marie Faustin Goedefroid "João" de Havelange (May 8, 1916 – 16 August 2016) was a Brazilian association football administrator. He was the 7th President of FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association). He was elected to the position in 1974. He resigned in 1998, after 24 years in charge.

He was elected as an honorary president of FIFA in 1998 after he left office. He resigned in 2013 due to "health and personal reasons".

Havelange was a swimmer at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin. He was also part of the team that tied for 13th in water polo at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki.

[[4 (Beyoncé album)]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 albums, Beyoncé albums, Funk albums, R&B albums

4 is the fourth studio album by American singer and songwriter Beyoncé Knowles. It was released June 24, 2011. Seven singles were released from the album. "Run the World (Girls)" was the first single from the album. Pitchfork gave the album a score of 8 out of 10.

The single "Love on Top" won the Best Traditional R&B Performance Award at the Grammy Awards. The album has sold three million copies. The third song on the album "I Miss You" was written by Frank Ocean.

[[Iman (model)]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, David Bowie, American models, People from Mogadishu

Iman Mohamed Abdulmajid (born July 25, 1955), known as Iman, is a Somali-American supermodel. In 1992, she played a queen in Michael Jackson's music video "Remember the Time".

==Early life== 

Iman was born in Mogadishu, the capital city of Somalia. She went to high school in Egypt. Iman then studied political science at the University of Nairobi in Kenya. 

[[Kabomani tapir]]

CATEGORIES: Odd-toed ungulates, Mammals of South America

The kabomani tapir (Tapirus kabomani) is the smallest of the five living species of tapir. It was found in the Amazon rainforest. Discovered in 2013, it was the first odd-toed ungulate discovered in over 100 years. The tapir has an estimated weight of only 110. It has dark-grey to dark-brown hair. Males are smaller than females and females have a light throat patch that extends from chin to neck and up to the base of the ears.

[[Heptarchy]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, History of England

The heptarchy (ἑπτά + ἀρχή, seven + realm) is a collective name applied to seven Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. These were: Northumbria, Mercia, East Anglia, Essex, Kent, Sussex and Wessex. The Anglo-Saxon kingdoms eventually became the Kingdom of England. The term has been in use since the 16th century. It is used to apply both to the seven kingdoms and to the time period in which they existed.

[[Thomas Szasz]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2012 deaths, American atheists, Hungarian Jews, People from Budapest, American psychiatrists

Thomas Stephen Szasz (April 15, 1920 – September 8, 2012) was a psychiatrist and academic. He was a libertarian. In 1961 Szasz's third and most well known book, The Myth of Mental Illness: Foundations of a Theory of Personal Conduct, was published. Szasz died when he was 92.

[[Masdar City]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in the United Arab Emirates

Masdar City (مدينة مصدر, ar) is a planned city, which is being built in the United Arab Emirates.

[[Magnus (wrestler)]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Living people, English professional wrestlers, People from Norfolk, TNA wrestlers

Nick Aldis (born 6 November 1986) is an English professional wrestler. He currently works for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling under the ring name, Magnus. He is a former TNA World Heavyweight Champion and was the first English person to hold the title.

He was also known for being a member of The British Invasion with Doug Williams and Rob Terry.

Before becoming a professional wrestler, he appeared on the British revival of the television show Gladiators. He performed under the stage name Oblivion. Aside from wrestling, he is a co-presenter of Britain's Strongest Man on Challenge TV.

[[Husayn ibn Ali]]

CATEGORIES: 626 births, 680 deaths, Imams, Arab people, History of Islam, Assassinated people

Husayn ibn Ali (11 or 13 January 626 CE – 13 October 680 CE) was the third Imam of Shia Islam. He was the son of Ali ibn Abi Talib, the fourth Caliph and first Imam of Shia Islam. His mother was Fatimah Zahra, the daughter of the Prophet Muhammad and wife of Ali. He was also the younger brother of Hasan ibn Ali, the second Imam of Shia Islam.

Husayn ibn Ali is known as a great figure in Islam. He refused to submit to Yazid I, the Umayyad caliph. For this he was killed at the Battle of Karbala, along with most of his family. He is regarded as a martyr by Muslims.

[[United States v. Windsor]]

CATEGORIES: United States Supreme Court cases, Same-sex marriage, 2013 in the United States, LGBT rights

United States v. Windsor was a court case heard by the United States Supreme Court. The court's decision was historically important for marriage law in the U.S. It was also important for LGBT rights.

The court decided that defining "marriage" as a union between one man and one woman (as husband and wife) was unconstitutional (against the Constitution). This specifically related to Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), a law passed in 1996. This defined "marriage" for federal (national) law in the United States. It defined it as being between one man and one woman. In United States v. Windsor, the court decided that this definition was against the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. In the U.S., the Constitution protects the rights of citizens, and no individual law can take those rights away.

The basis for the case was the right to benefits for same-sex married couples; the same right held by heterosexual married couples. Edith Windsor and Thea Spyer, a same-sex couple living in New York, were married in Canada in 2007. Spyer died in 2009, leaving everything she owned to Windsor. Under the law, widows do not have to pay tax on anything they inherited from their dead spouse. Windsor tried to claim this exemption. She was barred from doing so by Section 3 of DOMA, which said that the word "spouse" only applies to a marriage between a man and woman. The Internal Revenue Service denied Windsor's claim, and demanded that she pay $363,053 in inheritance taxes.

After Windsor won the case, Time magazine named her the third most influential person of the year in 2013.

[[Mniophila]]

CATEGORIES: Chrysomelidae

Mniophila is a genus of leaf beetles. It can be found nearly everywhere in Europe.

It contains two species:

[[Lythraria]]

CATEGORIES: Chrysomelidae

Lythraria is a genus of leaf beetles. It was first described in 1897 by Ernest Marie Louis Bedel. It contains a single species: Lythraria salicariae.

This species lives is found in Europe, the Caucasus, across northern Asia to Korea and Japan.

[[Hippuriphila modeeri]]

CATEGORIES: Chrysomelidae

Hippuriphila modeeri is a species of flea beetles, in the family Chrysomelidae. They that can be found in Europe and northern Asia, east to Mongolia.

[[Dibolia]]

CATEGORIES: Chrysomelidae

Dibolia is a genus of leaf beetles (Chrysomelidae).

Species in this genus can be found nearly everywhere in Europe.

Species were first organised into this group in 1829, by Pierre André Latreille.

[[Batophila aerata]]

CATEGORIES: Chrysomelidae

Batophila aerata is a species of leaf beetle. It is common in southern England, France, Corsica, Germany, Italy, Slovenia, Greece, Spain, Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia. It can also be found on islands in the Mediterranean such as Sardinia and Sicily.

[[Altica ericeti]]

CATEGORIES: Chrysomelidae

Altica ericeti (or Altica sandini) is a species of leaf beetle. It can be found in France, England, Germany, Netherlands, Morocco and the Iberian Peninsula.

[[WCW Monday Nitro]]

CATEGORIES: 1995 American television series debuts, 2001 American television series endings, American television series, Sports television series, World Championship Wrestling, English-language television programs

WCW Monday Nitro was a professional wrestling television program for World Championship Wrestling (WCW). The show ran from September 4, 1995 to March 26, 2001 and had 286 episodes.

[[Ned Vizzini]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2013 deaths, Suicides by jumping in the United States, Writers from New York City

Edison Price "Ned" Vizzini (April 4, 1981 - December 19, 2013) was an American writer. He is best known for writing It's Kind of a Funny Story. In 2010 a movie of the novel was released. Vizzini had depression. He spent a week in a psychiatric hospital in 2004 after he called a suicide hotline. He based It's Kind of a Funny Story on his experience there. Vizzini was found dead on December 19, 2013 in New York. He had killed himself by jumping off a building.

[[Rising Damp]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 establishments in the United Kingdom, 1974 television series debuts, 1978 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 1970s British sitcoms, ITV comedy, English-language television programs

Rising Damp is a British sitcom produced by Yorkshire Television for ITV. There were 28 thirty minute episodes in four series between 1974 and 1978. In 1980 it was followed by a movie of the same name.

[[Too Cool]]

CATEGORIES: WWE teams and stables

Too Cool was a professional wrestling tag team and stable that competed in WWE/F 1998 to 2001.

The members of the tag team were Scott Taylor/Scotty 2 Hotty and Brian Christopher/Grandmaster Sexay. Rikishi joined in late 1999 to make Too Cool a stable.

The members of the stable were portrayed as hip hop fans and they would dancing around the ring while lights flashed and music played. This also included a famous moment when all three members entered the Royal Rumble and Rikishi eliminated all the participants in the ring except Sexay. Rikishi looked like he was going to eliminate Sexay but Scotty entered the match next and they danced to their music while the Rumble match was still ongoing. Rikishi eliminated the other two members when their dance segment was over. They quickly became very popular with fans. 

On the January 6, 2014 episode of Raw titled Old School Raw, Too Cool reunited with Rikishi and they defeated 3MB (Heath Slater, Drew McIntyre and Jinder Mahal) in a six-man tag team match. It marked the first time in thirteen and a half years that all three members of Too Cool had competed in a six-man tag team match. Too Cool also competed at NXT Arrival in a match for the NXT Tag Team Championships against The Ascension but they were unable to win the titles.

[[Propofol]]

CATEGORIES: Drugs

Propofol is a drug that is used to put animals (including humans) to sleep. Propofol is injected into a vein. It takes about 40 seconds to work. 

[[St Antony's College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 establishments in Europe, 1950s establishments in England, Colleges of the University of Oxford

St. Antony's College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It was founded in 1950 and received a Royal Charter in 1953. It claims to be the most cosmopolitan of the University's seven graduate colleges.

[[H. Robert Horvitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American biologists, American Nobel Prize winners, Harvard University alumni, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Jewish Nobel Prize winners, Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni, Scientists from Chicago

Howard Robert Horvitz (born May 8, 1947 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American biologist of Jewish descent.

He is best known for the research he did on the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans and he won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2002 for "discoveries concerning genetic regulation of organ development and programmed cell death". He shared the prize with Sydney Brenner and John E. Sulston.

He earned a BS in Mathematics from Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a PhD in Biology from Harvard University in 1974.

[[Nae Lăzărescu]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2013 deaths, Romanian people, Romanian movie actors, Romanian television actors, Comedians, People from Bucharest

Nae Lăzărescu (8 September 1941 – 19 December 2013) was a Romanian television, stage and movie actor. He was also a comedian.

He was born in Bucharest. His career began in 1963.

Lăzărescu died of chronic liver disease, in Bucharest. He was aged 72. He will be buried on 21 December in Focșani, Vrancea County.

[[Gottfried Böhm]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2021 deaths, German architects, German centenarians, People from Hesse, Pritzker Prize winners

Gottfried Böhm (January 23, 1920 – June 9, 2021) was a German architect. In 1986, he became the first German architect to be honored with a Pritzker Prize.

Böhm turned 100 in January 2020. He died on June 9, 2021 in Cologne at the age of 101.

[[Pro Wrestling Noah]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 establishments in Japan, Professional wrestling promotions, Sport in Japan

Pro Wrestling Noah (PW Noah or Noah) is an Japanese professional wrestling company. It was founded by Mitsuharu Misawa in 2000.  Misawa started the company after he left All Japan Pro Wrestling. He did not like the direction Giant Baba's widow Motoko Baba was putting the company in.

On June 13, 2009, Misawa was in a tag team match where he teamed with Go Shiozaki against Akitoshi Saito and Bison Smith. After Misawa took a belly to back suplex from Saito, he lost consciousness and was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead at 10:10 p.m. JST from to spinal damage.

Akira Taue was named as Misawa's successor and the new President of Pro Wrestling Noah on June 27, 2009.

In January 2020, the company was purchased by CyberAgent.

[[Pro Wrestling Illustrated]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 establishments in the United States, Sports media, American magazines, Monthly magazines

Pro Wrestling Illustrated is the monthly American professional wrestling magazine published by the Kappa Publishing Group. 

[[Becket (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 drama movies, British drama movies, American drama movies, Movies based on plays

Becket is a British and American drama movie. It was directed by Peter Glenville and produced by Hal B. Wallis. It stars Peter O'Toole as King Henry II. It also stars John Gielgud and Richard Burton. It was released on March 11, 1964

[[The Lion in Winter]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 drama movies, British drama movies, Historical movies

The Lion in Winter is a British historical drama movie. It was directed by Anthony Harvey. It stars Peter O'Toole as Henry II of England, Katharine Hepburn as Eleanor of Aquitaine, and Anthony Hopkins and Timothy Dalton as their sons. Its music was composed by John Barry. It was released on October 30, 1968.

[[Goodbye, Mr. Chips]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 movies, 1960s musical movies, American musical movies, Movies based on books, Movies directed by Herbert Ross

Goodbye, Mr. Chips is an American musical movie. It is directed by Herbert Ross. It stars Peter O'Toole, Petula Clark, Michael Redgrave, Siân Phillips, and Alison Leggatt. It was released on November 15, 1969.

[[The Ruling Class]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 comedy movies, 1972 drama movies, 1970s comedy-drama movies, 1970s musical movies, British comedy-drama movies, Movies directed by Peter Medak

The Ruling Class is a British dark comedy-drama movie. It was directed by Peter Medak. It stars Peter O'Toole in a double-role (playing two people) and Arthur Lowe. It was released on September 13, 1973.

[[The Stunt Man]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 movies, American comedy-drama movies, American thriller movies

The Stunt Man is an American comedy-drama-thriller movie. It was directed by Richard Rush. It stars Peter O'Toole, Steve Railsback, and Barbara Hershey. It was released on June 27, 1980.

[[My Favorite Year]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 comedy movies, American comedy movies, Movies directed by Richard Benjamin

My Favorite Year is an American comedy movie. It was directed by Richard Benjamin. It stars Peter O'Toole, Mark Linn-Baker, Jessica Harper, Joseph Bologna, and Bill Macy. It was released on October 1, 1982.

[[Conor O'Brian]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Grand Rapids, Michigan, WWE wrestlers

Ryan Parmeter (born February 6, 1980) is an American professional wrestler. He currently works for the WWE under the ring name, Konnor. He is also known under his former ring name, Conor O'Brian. He is currently part of The Ascension along with Viktor where he is one-half of the NXT Tag Team champions.

He was formerly in the WWE from 2005 to 2008 but both Parmeter and his girlfriend who was also employed with the company asked for their released due to health problems. He was re-signed by the WWE on July 14, 2010 and was sent to their FCW developmental territory. He competed on the fourth season of NXT but was the second person eliminated. He also competed on the fifth season of NXT titled NXT Redemption but was eliminated fourth.

Parmeter won the NXT Tag Team Championship with Viktor on September 12, 2013 when they defeated Adrian Neville and Corey Graves.

[[Siân Phillips]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, Welsh movie actors, Welsh television actors, Welsh stage actors, BAFTA Award winning actors

Dame Siân Phillips DBE (ˈ; born Jane Elizabeth Ailwên Phillips, 14 May 1933) is a Welsh actress. She was married to actor Peter O'Toole. She is also known for her roles in Becket and in Goodbye, Mr. Chips.

[[Obirin Junior College]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 establishments in Japan, Tokyo Prefecture, 2007 disestablishments, 21st century disestablishments in Japan

[[Man of La Mancha (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 drama movies, American drama movies, Italian drama movies, Movies based on plays, Movies directed by Arthur Hiller

Man of La Mancha is an American drama movie. It is directed by Arthur Hiller. It stars Peter O'Toole, Sophia Loren and Ian Richardson. It was released on December 11, 1972.

[[Man and Superman]]

CATEGORIES: Plays

Man and Superman was a drama play written by George Bernard Shaw in 1903. Man and Superman opened at The Royal Court Theatre in London on 23 May 1905. A movie version of the play was released in 1982. It stars Peter O'Toole.

[[Pygmalion (1983 movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 movies, American television movies, Movies based on plays

Pygmalion is a television movie from 1983. It was produced by Margot Kidder. Kidder also stars in the movie, which also stars Peter O'Toole as Professor Henry Higgins. It received many positive reviews. It was based on George Bernard Shaw's play Pygmalion. It was released on July 14, 1983.

[[Laurence Olivier Award]]

CATEGORIES: Entertainment awards, Theater, 1976 establishments

The Laurence Olivier Award (or the Olivier Award) is an award given to actors who succeed in theatre work. It is named for actor Laurence Olivier. It was first awarded in 1976.

[[Jeffrey Bernard is Unwell]]

CATEGORIES: Plays

Jeffrey Bernard is Unwell is a play by Keith Waterhouse. It is about real-life journalist Jeffrey Bernard. Bernard was still alive when the play was first performed in the West End in 1989. It starred Peter O'Toole and Tom Conti.

[[Standard Liège]]

CATEGORIES: 1900 establishments in Europe, Belgian football clubs, Liège, Establishments in Belgium

Standard Liège (full name: Royal Standard Club de Liège) is a football club from Liège in Belgium. The club is playing in the Belgian Pro League, the top level in Belgium.

[[Essex (kingdom)]]

CATEGORIES: 6th century establishments in England, 9th century disestablishments in Europe, 825 disestablishments, Anglo-Saxons, Disestablishments in England, Former monarchies of Europe, History of England

The Kingdom of the East Saxons (Ēast Seaxna Rīce), was also called the Kingdom of Essex. It was one of the seven kingdoms of the Anglo-Saxon Heptarchy. Essex was founded in the 6th century. The kingdom of Essex covered the area of the modern English counties of Essex, Hertfordshire, Middlesex and (for a short while) Kent. Kings of Essex frequently found themselves under the control of other Anglo-Saxon overlords. The territory of the East Saxons included the two Roman provincial capitals of Colchester and, for a time, London. In the Tribal Hidage the East Saxons were listed at 7,000 hides. 

[[St Catherine's College, Oxford]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges of the University of Oxford, 1962 establishments in England

St. Catherine's College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford. It is commonly referred to as "Catz". The college was founded in 1962, but its origins are older. In 1862, a "Delegacy for Unattached Students" was formed in Oxford. Students could join the Delegacy to become members of the University without being members of a college. Many students could not afford the cost of belonging to a college. The Delegacy came to be called "St. Catharine's sic. Club" after the name of the building at which its members met. In 1931, the Delegacy was officially renamed "St. Catherine's Society".

The Society obtained authority to become a full college in 1956. It purchased land from Merton College and built a modernist campus designed by Danish architect Arne Jacobsen. The College opened in 1962. It first admitted women students in 1974.

[[Dr. Luigi]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 video games, Mario video games, Puzzle video games, Wii U games

Dr. Luigi a puzzle video game for the Wii U console. It was developed by Nintendo and Arika. It was released in North America on December 31, 2013, and in Europe on January 15, 2014.

[[Tetris Attack]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 video games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games, Game Boy games, Yoshi games, Puzzle video games

Tetris Attack is a puzzle video game for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and Game Boy that was released in 1996. It was developed by Intelligent Systems and published by Nintendo. It is the first game in the Puzzle League series. It was originally known as Panel de Pon in Japan and had different characters, but the characters were replaced with characters from Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island when the game was made in English.

[[Private school]]

CATEGORIES: Schools, Types of educational institutions

A private school (also known as independent school or nonstate schools) is a school that is not controlled by a government. These schools decide which students to admit. They get their money in whole or in part from the school fees that students pay to attend, instead of from taxes. Private schools are often more expensive than other schools.

In Britain, private schools are usually called public schools.

[[Mikhail Khodorkovsky]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Jewish businesspeople, People from Moscow, Russian businesspeople, Russian Jews, Soviet Jews

Mikhail Borisovich Khodorkovsky (born 26 June 1963) is a Russian businessman. In 2005 he was put in prison for not paying taxes. On 20 December 2013 Putin let him out of prison. He lives in Germany, but he may move back to Russia if he wishes. Khodorkovsky would have been released in August 2014.

[[Private]]

Private might mean:

[[Paddy Considine]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, English movie actors, Living people

Patrick George "Paddy" Considine (born 5 September 1973) is an English actor. In 2005 he won Best British Actor at the Empire Awards for playing Richard in Dead Man's Shoes. Considine has Asperger's syndrome.

[[Libera]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from London, Choirs

Libera is an all-boy singing group from England. It is directed by Robert Prizeman. There are roughly 40 members aged 7 to 16. They go to different schools in South London. Most members come from the parish choir of St. Philip's, Norbury, in South London. Libera record albums and goes on tour around the world. Libera is a not-for-profit organisation, registered as a charity in the UK.

Most boys have unchanged boy soprano (also known as treble) voices. The boys in their early teens sing the lowest parts. Libera's songs are either new compositions by Robert Prizeman or new arrangements of classical and contemporary tunes. Prizeman often composes and arranges pieces with individual soloists in mind. He does this to emphasize the variety of characteristics and qualities in the boys' voices.

[[Babyface]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, African American musicians, Grammy Award winners, Living people

Kenneth Brian "Babyface" Edmonds (born April 10, 1959) is an American R&B musician. He released his first album Lovers in 1986. He has won ten Grammy Awards. He started a record label called Soda Pop Records in 2009. Babyface will release an album with Toni Braxton called Love Marriage & Divorce in 2014.

[[Strood]]

CATEGORIES: Medway, Towns in Kent

Strood is a town in Medway, North Kent.

It has a high street which has the following stores: Sports Direct  Asda, Wilko, Iceland and Tesco

It also has a retail park which has the following stores: Next, Argos Poundworld Matalan  KFC,

In 2016, the B&Q store at Strood Retail Park was demolished, and new shops were built which include M&S Foodhall, B&M Bargains, Starbucks, and a Gym.

It also has a leisure centre, Strood Leisure Centre.

Strood includes several named areas, notably Earl Estate and Marlowe Park.

[[Nelly Omar]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 2013 deaths, Argentine movie actors, Argentine singers, Centenarians, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Actors from Buenos Aires

Nilda Elvira Vattuone (10 September 1911 – 20 December 2013) or Nelly Omar, was an Argentine actress and singer.

She was born in Buenos Aires. She was married to Antonio Molina from 1935. They divorced in 1943. Omar died of cardiac arrest while she was sleeping at a hospital in Buenos Aires. She was 102 years old.

[[David Coleman]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, BBC people, Disease-related deaths in England, English television presenters, Television personalities from Cheshire

David Robert Coleman, OBE (26 April 1926 – 21 December 2013) was an English sports commentator and television presenter. He worked for the BBC for over 40 years. He covered eleven Olympic Games from 1960 to 2000 and six FIFA World Cups.

Coleman became the first broadcaster to receive the Olympic Order award. This was in recognition of his contribution to the Olympics.

Coleman died of a short illness in his home in London. He was aged 87.

[[David Hobbs]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, British racecar drivers, British sportspeople, People from Warwickshire

David Wishart Hobbs (born 9 June 1939) is a British retired racing driver. Hobbs was a commentator for the Speed Channel. He now works as a commentator for NBC and NBC Sports Network.

Hobbs was born in Royal Leamington Spa, England.

In 1969 Hobbs was included in the FIA list of graded drivers. This is an elite group of 27 drivers who were rated the best in the world by their achievements.

[[Michael Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2018 deaths, British television directors, Movie directors from London

Michael Joseph Anderson, Sr. (30 January 1920 – 25 April 2018) was a British movie director. He was best known for directing The Dam Busters (1955), Around the World in 80 Days (1956) and Logan's Run (1976). He was the step-grandfather of Laurie Holden. 

Anderson died at his home in Vancouver, British Columbia on 25 April 2018 at the age of 98.

[[Short sale]]

CATEGORIES: Houses

In real estate, a short sale is a way for a homeowner to avoid a foreclosure. In both situations, the homeowner is at least several months behind on payments. In a foreclosure, the bank or lending institution seizes the house, and they now own it and have to try to sell it themselves (or through an agency). In a short sale, the homeowner agrees with the bank to sell it for less than it is worth on the market. The banks would maybe agree to this because it means the house will get sold, saving them the selling responsibility. But they are losing money, because the house is selling for less than it is worth. Sometimes, they make the homeowner pay the balance, and sometimes they forgive it.

Short sales are not always a great deal because of the highly inflated prices of the housing bubble. For example, if a house that normally costs $100,000 was suddenly 'valued' at $200,000, and someone got a loan for that amount, they would want to re-sell it for $200,000 or even more to make a profit. However, values dropped. So now, they may short sell (less than it is worth) the house for $175,000, and lose $25,000. But to a new buyer, that $100,000 house is probably still not worth $175,000. So see what the average is for that house over time.

[[Chatham Waterfront bus station]]

CATEGORIES: Medway, Bus transport, Public transport in the United Kingdom, Buildings and structures in England

Chatham Waterfront bus station is a bus station in Chatham, Kent. The bus station opened in October 2011. It replaced the town's previous Pentagon bus station.

The main operators at the bus station are Arriva Medway Towns and Nu-Venture.

The bus station has 19 stands. Buses run from the bus station around the Medway area and to parts of Kent. The bus station has a travel shop and toilets.

[[Pentagon bus station]]

CATEGORIES: Medway, Bus transport, Public transport in the United Kingdom, Buildings and structures in England

Pentagon bus station was the main bus station in Chatham, Kent, South East England. It was part of the Pentagon Shopping Centre.

It was replaced by Chatham Waterfront bus station in 2011.

[[South West Africa]]

CATEGORIES: 1915 establishments, 1910s establishments in Africa, 1990 disestablishments, 1990s disestablishments in Africa

For other uses, see South West Africa (disambiguation)

South West Africa (Suidwes-Afrika; Zuidwest-Afrika; Südwestafrika) was the name used for Namibia when it was ruled by the German Empire and later South Africa.

[[Hohe Warte Stadium]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Austria, Vienna, 1921 establishments in Europe, 1920s establishments in Austria

The Hohe Warte Stadium is a football stadium in the Döbling district of Vienna. It is the home ground of the oldest football club in Austria, First Vienna FC 1894. It is also used by the American football team Vienna Vikings. It is one of the oldest stadiums which are still in use in professional football.

[[Kevin Kampl]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, Living people, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, People from Solingen, Slovenian footballers, Sportspeople from North Rhine-Westphalia

Kevin Kampl (born 9 October 1990 in Solingen) is a football player from Slovenia. He plays as a midfielder for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.

[[Andrei Markov (ice hockey)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American Hockey League players, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Naturalized citizens of Canada, Russian ice hockey players, Ice hockey defencemen

Andrei Viktorovich Markov (born December 20, 1978) is a former Russian-Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman. He played for the Montreal Canadiens of the National Hockey League (NHL) and serves as their alternate captain.

[[Athelfrith of Bernicia]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, 610s deaths, Kings and queens, 6th century births

Athelfrith († 616), in 593 became King of Bernicia. In 604 he conquered Deira and became the first King of Northumbria. Aethelfrith was the first great leader among the Angles north of the River Humber. Bede called him an ambitious and powerful king who cruelly ravaged the Britons more than any other English leader. He was killed in battle against the East Angles.

[[Tribute in Light]]

CATEGORIES: Landmarks in Manhattan, September 11 attacks

The Tribute in Light is a memorial with two beams of light shooting straight up into the sky done to remember the September 11 attacks. It is lit up at dusk every September 11, lasting until dawn the next day.  It is done by the Municipal Art Society of New York. It was first done on March 11, 2002, six months after the attacks happened, and lasted until April 14, 2002. It was done again on the second anniversary of the attacks, on September 11, 2003. Since then, it has been done on every September 11.

On clear nights, the lights can be seen from over 60 miles away. It can be seen in all of New York City, as well as most of Northern New Jersey and Long Island, Fairfield County, Connecticut, Westchester County, New York, Orange County, New York and Rockland County, New York.

[[Sex (book)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 books, Madonna (entertainer)

The book Sex is a book by the singer Madonna. It was released on 21 October 1992. It covers topics like sadomasochism, sex, pornography, adult content and sexual simulation. Madonna wrote the book as a character named Mistress Dita. Sex had 128 pages plus a warning. Others involved in the book include Naomi Campbell, Vanilla Ice and Isabella Rossellini. The book was controversial for a lot of reasons. One was that the book was not allowed for sale to anyone under the age of eighteen. The book became a very major hit.

[[Dál Riata]]

CATEGORIES: Scottish people, Ethnic groups in the United Kingdom

Dál Riata (also Dalriada or Dalriata) was a Gaelic kingdom on the western coast of Scotland.. Beginning in the early 5th century Dál Riata covered the area of what is now Argyll and Bute and Lochaber in Scotland. They came from the area of County Antrim in Northern Ireland where they were called 'Scots'. Other groups from Ireland followed. These groups also established themselves on the west coast as far south as Cornwall. The colony from Irish Dál Riata were known as the Scotti to the Romans. It was this group that later gave their name to Scotland.

[[Softcore pornography]]

CATEGORIES: Pornography

Softcore pornography (or simply softcore) is pornography that is not as sexually explicit as the hardcore type. Sexual activity in softcore pornography is typically simulated, although it is sometimes real.  Although it is not as graphic as hardcore, movie censorship of soft pornography may restrict it to adults in many countries.

[[Burlesque (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s musical movies, 2010 drama movies, American musical movies, American drama movies

Burlesque is a 2010 musical movie. It is about a woman losing her waitress job and then moving to Los Angeles. She gets a job dancing in a burlesque show. Cher plays Tess, Christina Aguilera plays Ali and Julianne Hough plays Georgia. The movie was sent to North American theaters just before Thanksgiving 2010. The ratings of the movie were mixed to negative. Its box office performance, however, was close to $90 million.

[[Kalpana Chawla]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2003 deaths, Indian scientists, American astronauts, Aviation deaths in the United States

Kalpana Chawla (March 17, 1962/1961 – February 1, 2003) was an American astronaut of Indian origin. She was the first Indian-American astronaut and the first Indian woman to go into space.

She got  married to flight instructor Jean-Pierre Harrison. She first flew in 1997 on the STS-87. She served on the shuttle as of mission specialist and the main person sleeping the shuttle's robotic arms.

[[Andre Ramalho Silva]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian footballers, 1992 births, Living people, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

André Ramalho Silva (born 16 February 1992) is a football player from Brazil. He plays for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Bundesliga, which is the top league in Austria. He is a defender but also can play in the defensive midfield.

[[A.C. Omonia Nicosia]]

CATEGORIES: Cypriot football clubs, Nicosia, 1948 establishments

Athletic Club Omonia Nicosia is a football club from Cyprus. It is based in the capital, Nicosia.

[[Low voltage ride through]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Low voltage ride through (LVRT) is the capability of an electrical device to function normally during periods of low voltage. Many electrical devices in general must have a minimum amount of voltage for them to be able to work. If the voltage is too low the equipment will not work correctly or the efficiency will be reduced.

[[Distributed generation]]

CATEGORIES: Electricity

Distributed generation is the electricity generation system in which the electricity is being produced from many small power sources connected to the electrical grid. Distributed generation allows the collection of energy from many scattered sources to improve the security of an electricity supply.

[[Time domain]]

CATEGORIES: Signalling

Time domain is the display of mathematical graph with respect to time. The time can be in the form of discrete time (for digital signal) or in continuous time (for analogue signal).

[[Mercedes-Benz Vario]]

CATEGORIES: Rear wheel drive vehicles, Buses, Vans, Mercedes-Benz automobiles

The Mercedes-Benz Vario was a series of vans, trucks and step-entrance buses produced by Mercedes-Benz from 1995 to 2013.

The Vario series was launched as an improved version of the Mercedes-Benz T2.

The Vario minibuses could be built as a minibus or as a chassis only.

[[Geoglyph]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeology, Art

A geoglyph is a large-scale man-made feature on the ground. Usually longer than 4 metres, it is made by placing rocks, stones, live trees, gravel, or earth. 

A positive geoglyph is formed by the arrangement and alignment of materials on the ground, while a negative geoglyph is formed by removing material to expose bare ground.

[[Biomolecule]]

CATEGORIES: Biochemistry

A biomolecule is any molecule that is produced by a living organism. This includes large macromolecules such as proteins, polysaccharides, lipids, and nucleic acids, as well as many smaller molecule A more general name for this class of molecules is biogenic substances.

[[Main Source]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s establishments in Canada, 1989 establishments in New York (state), 1980s American music groups, 1980s Canadian music groups, 1990s American music groups, 1990s Canadian music groups, 1994 disestablishments in the United States, American rap music groups, Musical groups disestablished in 1994, Toronto

The Main Source were a Canadian and American hip hop and rap group from 1989-1994. Their single "What You Need" was sampled by singer Madonna on her bondage inspired song "Human Nature" during 1994-1995. The rap group were based in New York City and Toronto in Canada.

[[Emma Darwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1808 births, 1896 deaths, Darwin family, English people

Emma Darwin  (née Wedgwood; 2 May 1808–7 October 1896) was an English woman and the wife of Charles Darwin.  Charles Darwin was a very important biologist. Emma was the daughter of Josiah Wedgwood II.  Josiah II was the son of Josiah Wedgwood.  Josiah was a potter and founder of the Wedgwood company.  Charles Darwin was her cousin. He was also a grandchild of Josiah.  They married on January 29, 1839. Emma had 10 children with Charles.  2 of these died when they were babies.  Another child, Annie, died when she was 10. Emma helped Charles with his work, mostly by writing out his works onto manuscripts.

[[List of movies about Wikipedia]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of movies

The following is a list of movies about Wikipedia.

[[Impact Global Championship]]

CATEGORIES: Impact Wrestling, 2007 establishments

The Impact Global Championship is a professional wrestling championship in Impact Wrestling. It was originally a National Wrestling Alliance. The championship was debuted on the May 14, 2007 taping of TNA Impact!. The episode aired on May 17, 2007 because of tape delay. It is considered the highest-ranking title in TNA.

[[Norway women's national football team]]

CATEGORIES: European women's national association football teams, Football in Norway

The Norway women's national football team represents Norway on the women's side in association football. Norway won the 1987 and 1993 UEFA Women's Championships. They won the FIFA Women's World Cup in 1995. They won a bronze medal at the 1996 Summer Olympics and a gold medal at the 2000 Summer Olympics.

[[List of brightest stars]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of stars

Below are the 50 brightest individual stars in order of their average apparent magnitudes in the visible spectrum as seen from Earth. 

To the naked eye on a clear dark night, in a place far from cities and lights, the total number of stars visible is about 9000. This is not the same as a list of the brightest stars as seen with the naked eye, because close binary or multiple star systems will appear as a single star brighter than their individual components. The binary system Alpha Centauri has an apparent magnitude of -0.27, but the brightest individual star is Alpha Centauri A with the apparent magnitude as listed here of -0.01. Hence Alpha Centauri is the third brightest star in the night sky, whilst its brightest component Alpha Centauri A is the fourth brightest individual star. 

[[Péter Gulácsi]]

CATEGORIES: Hungarian footballers, Association football goalkeepers, 1990 births, Living people, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Péter Gulácsi (born 6 May 1990 in Budapest) is a Hungarian football player. He plays for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga. He is a goalkeeper.

[[High fructose corn syrup]]

CATEGORIES: Maize, Carbohydrates, Syrup

High fructose corn syrup (alternate names: glucose-fructose in Canada) is a corn syrup whose glucose has been converted to fructose. The conversion makes it very sweet. The material is used in many breads, cereal, sodas, yogurt and breakfast bars.

High fructose corn syrup was first introduced during the late 1950s. The material did not come to the United States until the late 1970s into the 1980s. High fructose corn syrup has been linked to obesity, diabetes and other health problems.

[[UT Arad]]

CATEGORIES: Romanian football clubs, 1945 establishments in Europe, 1940s establishments in Romania

UT Arad is a football club from Arad, Romania. Behind Steaua Bucharest, Dinamo Bucharest and Venus Bucharest, the club is the most sucessful in Romania.

[[Corn syrup]]

CATEGORIES: Maize, Carbohydrates, Syrup

Corn syrup is food syrup made from starch. The starch is usually from potatoes, wheat, tapioca and corn.

[[The Wolf of Wall Street]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 comedy movies, 2013 crime movies, 2010s biographical movies, 2010s black comedy movies, 2010s criminal comedy movies, American biographical movies, American black comedy movies, American criminal comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about drugs, Movies directed by Martin Scorsese, Movies set in New York City, Movies set in the 1980s, Movies set in the 1990s, Trading movies

The Wolf of Wall Street is an 2013 American black comedy movie directed by Martin Scorsese and produced by Leonardo DiCaprio. The movie is about a stockbroker who works on Wall Street in New York City during the 1990s. He runs a company that commits stock fraud and insider trading. The story is based on the memoirs of Jordan Belfort.

DiCaprio plays Belfort (the stockbroker), Matthew McConaughey plays Mark Hanna, Jonah Hill plays Donnie Azoff, Rob Reiner plays Max Belfort and Kyle Chandler plays Denham. P. J. Byrne, Jon Favreau, Joanna Lumley, Margot Robbie, Spike Jonze, and Edward Herrmann also appear in the movie. The movie is 179 minutes long. Some sex scenes were cut away to prevent MPAA from giving NC-17. It was released on December 25, 2013. It was nominated for five Academy Awards, including Best Picture.

[[Betty Ong]]

CATEGORIES: People from San Francisco, Victims of the September 11 attacks, 1956 births, 2001 deaths

Betty Ann Ong (February 5, 1956 – September 11, 2001) was an American flight attendant who was on American Airlines Flight 11 when it was taken over by terrorists and flown into the North Tower of the World Trade Center in New York City, as part of the September 11 attacks. She was born in San Francisco, California.

At the time of her death, Ong lived in Andover, Massachusetts. On September 11, 2001, she was on Flight 11 so that she could go back to Los Angeles and go on a vacation to Hawaii with her sister. When the plane was taken over, she called in to American Airlines and told them that the plane had been taken over. During her call, she said that none of the crew could open the cockpit door, a passenger and two flight attendants had been hurt, and that she thought someone had sprayed Mace or something else in business class. She also told them which seats the terrorists on the plane were sitting in.

[[Christine Ebersole]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Musicians from Illinois, Actors from Illinois, 1953 births, Living people, Tony Award winning actors, People from Winnetka, Illinois

Christine Ebersole (born 21 February, 1953) is an American singer, actress and musician. She played Evelyn Tracy in Black Sheep (1996) and Muffin in the comedy The Big Wedding (2013). In 2007 she won the Tony Award for Best Actress in a Musical for her work in Grey Gardens.

Ebersole was born in Winnetka, Illinois. She now lives near Maplewood, New Jersey.

[[Bernicia]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, Petty kingdoms of England, 6th century establishments in England, 7th-century disestablishments

Bernicia (Old English: Bernice) was a kingdom in Northern England. It was an Anglo-Saxon kingdom established by Anglian settlers in the 6th century. Bernicia occupied about the same area as the modern English counties of Northumberland and Durham, and the former Scottish counties of Berwickshire and East Lothian. Bernicia was one of two Anglo-Saxon kingdoms located north of the River Humber. The other was Deira and in the early 7th century they combined to become the kingdom of Northumbria.

[[Leymah Gbowee]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Activists, Nonviolence advocates, Nobel Peace Prize winners

Leymah Roberta Gbowee (born 1 February 1972) is a Liberian peace activist. In 2011 she won the Nobel Peace Prize with Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and Tawakel Karman. This made Gbowee the second African woman to win the prize. Her book Might Be Our Powers: How Sisterhood, Prayer, and Sex Changed a Nation at War was published in 2011. 

[[Black feminism]]

CATEGORIES: African-American history, Feminism

Black feminism is a type of feminism. Black feminists believe that sexism and racism are bound together. This is called intersectionality.

Black feminism exists because the racism that black women experience is not adequately addressed by the mainstream feminist movement, which is led by white middle-class women. In 1973 the National Black Feminist Organization was started.

Alice Walker was the first person to use the word womanism in 1979. Womanism is a black feminist theory. Patricia Hill Collins's 1991 book Black Feminist Thought is one of the most well-known books about black feminism.

[[Deep Throat (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 movies, English-language movies, Pornographic movies, American movies, Movies set in Miami, Florida, Obscenity controversies

Deep Throat is a 1972 American pornographic film. In it Linda Lovelace plays herself. She was paid $1250 for acting in the movie. The movie was directed by Gerard Damiano. In 1974 Deep Throat Part II was released.  The movie was made in New York. A documentary about Deep Throat called Inside Deep Throat was released in 2004.

[[Mariana Bridi Costa]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, 2009 deaths, Brazilian models, Deaths from urinary tract infection, Deaths from sepsis, Deaths from infectious disease, Disease-related deaths in Brazil

Mariana Bridi Costa (18 June 1988 – 24 January 2009; also called Mari and Mariana Bridi da Costa) was a Brazilian fashion model. She began her career at age 14. She was in many competitions and fashion-related events.

Costa became sick in December 2008. She was diagnosed in early January 2009 with a urinary tract infection. This quickly became septic. Her legs had to be amputated (cut off). Costa died on the evening of 24 January 2009 from septicemia and necrosis. She was aged 20.

[[Diomedes Díaz]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Colombian singers

Diomedes de Jesús Díaz Maestre (May 26, 1956 – December 22, 2013) was a Colombian vallenato singer, songwriter and composer. His nickname was "El Cacique de la Junta" (the chieftain of Junta). It was given to him early in his career by another vallenato singer, Rafael Orozco Maestre.

Díaz died in Valledupar at the age of 56. He was resting in his bed when his heart failed and he stopped breathing.

[[John Eisenhower]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2013 deaths, Ambassadors of the United States, American generals, American historians, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of World War II, Children of Presidents of the United States, Columbia University alumni, Deaths from natural causes, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Independent politicians in the United States, Politicians from Baltimore, Maryland, Politicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Politicians from Denver, Colorado, Writers from Denver, Colorado, Writers from Baltimore, Maryland, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

John Sheldon Doud Eisenhower (ˈ; August 3, 1922 – December 21, 2013) was an American historian and politician. He was the younger son of President Dwight D. Eisenhower and his wife Mamie.

Eisenhower was born in Denver, Colorado. He was raised in Baltimore, Maryland and in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Eisenhower was of Swedish and German descent.

He was a Brigadier General in the United States Army. He served during World War II and the Korean War. Eisenhower wrote several books on military history. He also served as the U.S. Ambassador to Belgium from 1969 to 1971.

Until his death on December 21, 2013, Eisenhower was the oldest living child of a former U.S. president. Eisenhower died at Trappe, Maryland, from natural causes. He was aged 91.

[[Dorothy Dandridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 1965 deaths, American movie actors, Actors from Cleveland, Ohio, Musicians from Ohio, Drug-related accidental deaths in the United States

Dorothy Jean Dandridge (November 9, 1922 – September 8, 1965) was an African American singer and actress. In 1955, she became the first black actress to be nominated for an Academy Award. The nomination was for Best Actress. She starred in many movies.

Dandridge was born in Cleveland, Ohio. She died of a drug overdose in Los Angeles, California.

[[Imam Muhammad ibn Saud Islamic University]]

CATEGORIES: Riyadh, Colleges and universities in Asia, 1953 establishments in Asia, 1950s establishments in Saudi Arabia

The Imam Muhammad ibn Saud Islamic University (جامعة الإمام محمد بن سعود الإسلامية) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, was founded in 1953. In 1974, it was granted university status by royal decree. It has a library, the Prince Sultan Library For Science and Knowledge, that has existed before the university. The university started running the library in 1975. The library is a partner of the World Digital Library.

[[Séléka]]

CATEGORIES: Islamic organizations, Rebel militia groups in Africa, Central African Republic

Séléka is an alliance of rebel militias in the Central African Republic. It overthrew the government on 24 March 2013. Its leader is Michel Djotodia. Djotodia has claimed himself to be the new President of the Central African Republic. Most of the members of Séléka are Muslim.

[[Mitsubishi G4M]]

CATEGORIES: World War II Japanese aircraft, Military of Japan, Mitsubishi

The Mitsubishi G4M was a bomber aircraft used by the Imperial Japanese Navy. It was called "Betty" by the Allies for it's codename and was known as "Hamaki" ("Cigar") by Japanese Navy pilots.

It was known for its good performance and range, as well as its lightness. It however had almost a complete lack of protection for the crew and had no armor plating or self-sealing fuel tanks. American fighter aircraft took advantage of this during their confrontation of the Pacific War.

[[Patuxai]]

CATEGORIES: Monuments and memorials, Laos

Patuxai (ປະຕູໄຊ, which means "Gate of Victory") is a monument located in Vientiane, Laos. It is similar to the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, but it is designed in Lao style. For an example, Lao mythological creatures have been used to decorate it.

[[War (Edwin Starr song)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 songs, Soul music, Vietnam War

"War" is a counterculture protest song. It was written by Norman Whitfield and Barrett Strong in 1969. It was released by the Motown label in 1970. Whitfield first produced the song with The Temptations as the original singers. It was performed by Edwin Starr. The song is a protest against the Vietnam War.

[[Yusef Lateef]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, African American musicians, American jazz musicians, American composers, American educators, American saxophonists, Bassists, Oboists, Musicians from Tennessee, Writers from Tennessee, People from Chattanooga, Tennessee, Grammy Award winners

Yusef Abdul Lateef (born William Emanuel Huddleston, October 9, 1920 – December 23, 2013) was an American jazz multi-instrumentalist, composer and educator. He won a Grammy Award in 1987.

Lateef mainly played the tenor saxophone and flute. He also played oboe and bassoon. He is known for his innovative blending of jazz with "Eastern" music.

He became a spokesman for the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community after his conversion to the Ahmadiyya sect of Islam in 1950.

Lateef died at the age of 93 in Shutesbury, Massachusetts. He had suffered from prostate cancer.

[[I Will Always Love You]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 in music, Whitney Houston songs

"I Will Always Love You" is a song by American singer-songwriter Dolly Parton. It is a country music song. It was released on June 6, 1974. It was the second single from Parton's thirteenth solo album, Jolene (1974). Whitney Houston recorded a version of the song for the movie The Bodyguard in 1992. That version is one of the best selling singles of all time.

[[Clive Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, American Jews, LGBT people from New York, American record producers, Bisexual people, Businesspeople from New York City, Chief executives, Grammy Award winners, LGBT businesspeople

Clive Davis (born April 4, 1932) or Clyde Davis; is an American record producer and music executive. He has won five Grammy Awards. He is a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a non-performer.

Davis has produced many famous singers, such as Aretha Franklin, Rod Stewart, Alicia Keys,  Barry Manilow, Christina Aguilera, Carlos Santana, Kelly Clarkson, Leona Lewis and Jennifer Hudson. Davis is also known for making Whitney Houston famous.

[[Bonnie and Clyde]]

CATEGORIES: American gangsters, American murderers, American robbers, Couples, Criminals from Texas, People from Dallas, Texas, People shot dead by law enforcement officers in the United States

Bonnie Elizabeth Parker (October 1, 1910 – May 23, 1934) and Clyde Chestnut Barrow (March 24, 1909 – May 23, 1934) were American outlaws and robbers. They were from the area around Dallas. They traveled the Central United States with their gang during the Great Depression.

Clyde is known today for his bank robberies. However, he preferred to rob small stores or rural gas stations. The gang is believed to have killed at least nine police officers and several civilians. The couple were eventually surprised and killed by police in Bienville Parish, Louisiana.

A 1967 movie about them, Bonnie and Clyde, stars Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty.

[[Bonnie Parker]]

CATEGORIES: 1910 births, 1934 deaths

[[Clyde Barrow]]

CATEGORIES: 1909 births, 1934 deaths

[[Evelyn Lear]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2012 deaths, American movie actors, American opera singers, Musicians from Brooklyn, New York University alumni

Evelyn Shulman (or Evelyn Lear; January 8, 1926 — July 1, 2012) was an American opera singer. She sang soprano. She trained at the Julliard School of Music and in Berlin. She was active mainly from the late 1950s to the middle of 1992. She received a Grammy Award in 1966. She also appeared in several movies.

Lear was born in Brooklyn, New York City. She died at age 86 in Sandy Spring, Maryland.

[[Cheryl Studer]]

CATEGORIES: People from Midland, Michigan, 1955 births, Living people, Grammy Award winners, American opera singers, Singers from Michigan, Sopranos

Cheryl Studer (born October 24, 1955) is a soprano singer. She has done over eighty roles from dramatic repertoire into lyric soprano. She began in the late 1970s. She has won two Grammy Awards.

Studer was born in Midland, Michigan.

[[Elizabeth Connell]]

CATEGORIES: Opera singers, 1946 births, 2012 deaths, South African people

Elizabeth Connell (22 October 1946–18 February 2012) was an opera singer born in South Africa. During her career she sang mainly in the United Kingdom and Australia. Connell was noted for her performances of the heroines in the great operas by Strauss, Verdi and Wagner.

[[Arcturus]]

CATEGORIES: Red giants

Arcturus (or α Boo, α Boötis, Alpha Boötis) of the constellation Boötes is the brightest star in the northern celestial hemisphere. With an apparent magnitude of −0.04, it is the fourth brightest star in the night sky, after −1.46 magnitude Sirius, −0.86 magnitude Canopus, and −0.27 magnitude Alpha Centauri.

It is a relatively close star at only 36.7 light-years from Earth, and, together with Vega and Sirius, one of the most luminous stars in the Sun's neighborhood.

Arcturus is a type K1.5 IIIpe orange giant star, with an absolute magnitude of −0.30. It has likely exhausted its hydrogen from the core and is now in its active red giant phase. It will continue to expand before entering the horizontal branch stage of its life cycle. The diameter of Arcturus is around 40 million kilometers.

[[Herbert Ilsanker]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, Association football goalkeepers, Coaches, 1967 births, Living people

Herbert Ilsanker (born May 24, 1967 in Hallein, Austria) is a former professional football player. He played as a goalkeeper. Since 2005 he coaches goalkeeping for FC Red Bull Salzburg.

[[Karen Akers]]

CATEGORIES: American stage actors, American movie actors, Musicians from New York City, 1945 births, Living people

Karen Akers (born Karen Orth-Pallavicini on October 13, 1945) is an American singer and actress. She does cabaret, movies and stage plays. In 1985, Akers played the mistress in the movie Heartburn. That same year she also played a singer in the movie The Purple Rose of Cairo. She has appeared in two Broadway musicals directed by Tommy Tune. In 1982, she acted with Raúl Juliá as his wife in the musical Nine. In 1989 she appeared in Grand Hotel.

Akers was born in New York City

[[Tampon]]

CATEGORIES: Hygiene, Female reproductive system

A tampon is a mass made of absorbent material, usually cotton, that are put into a body cavity to absorb body fluid. The most common type is put in a woman's vagina to absorb menstrual fluid.

Tampons were first used as medical devices in the 18th century. They date back thousands of years.

[[Stefan Ilsanker]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Austrian footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Stefan Ilsanker (born 18 May 1989 in Hallein) is a football player from Austria. He plays for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga as defensive midfielder.

[[Sadio Mané]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Senegalese footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Liverpool F.C. players

Sadio Mané (born 10 April 1992) is a Senegalese professional footballer. He plays for Premier League club Liverpool and the Senegal national team. He plays as a winger. He was born in Sédhiou.

[[Vega]]

CATEGORIES: Northern pole stars

Vega (α Lyr, α Lyrae, Alpha Lyrae) is the brightest star in the constellation Lyra. It is the fifth brightest star in the night sky and the second brightest star in the northern celestial hemisphere, after Arcturus. At only 25 light-years from Earth, it is a relatively close star and one of the most luminous stars in the Sun's neighborhood.

Vega has been extensively studied by astronomers: this led it to be called "arguably the next most important star in the sky after the Sun". 

Vega was the northern pole star around 12,000 BC and will be so again around the year 13,727. Vega was the first star other than the Sun to be photographed and the first to have its spectrum recorded. It was one of the first stars whose distance was estimated through parallax measurements. Vega has served as the baseline for calibrating the astronomical brightness scale.

Vega is only about a tenth of the age of the Sun, but since it is 2.1 times as massive its expected lifetime is also one tenth of that of the Sun. Both stars are at present near the midpoint of their life expectancies. 

Vega has not much of the elements heavier than helium. Vega is a suspected variable star that may vary slightly in magnitude in a periodic manner. It is spinning rapidly with a velocity of 274 km/s at the equator. This is causing the equator to bulge outward because of centrifugal effects, and, as a result, there is a variation of temperature across the star's photosphere that reaches a maximum at the poles. From Earth, Vega is being observed from the direction of one of these poles.

Based on an observed excess emission of infrared radiation, Vega appears to have a circumstellar disk of dust. This dust is likely to be the result of collisions between objects in an orbiting disk of debris, similar to the Kuiper belt in the Solar System. Stars that display an infrared excess because of dust emission are termed Vega-like stars. Irregularities in Vega's disk also suggest the presence of at least one planet, likely to be about the size of Jupiter.

[[Kalifornia]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 crime movies, 1993 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, American road movies, American serial killer movies, Antisocial personality disorder in fiction, English-language movies, American independent movies

Kalifornia is a 1993 American crime drama movie. It was released in 1993. It is about a graduate student from Pittsburgh who wants to document killers. A psychopath on parole named Early has lost his job and wants to leave California. His parole officer, however, warns him against doing so for fear of Early going back to prison. When Early begins heading to his interview, he is stopped and confronted by his landlord for not paying his rent. Early then chases the landlord violently. Juliette Lewis plays Adele Corners, Brad Pitt plays Early, David Duchovny plays Brian.

The movie was finished in 1991. It not released until September 1993. It was released in the United States on September 8. The movie originally got an NC-17 from the MPAA, though it surrendered the rating before release.

The reviews were very positive. The money it made at the box office, however, was poor.

[[Scorpius–Centaurus Association]]

CATEGORIES: Star clusters

The Scorpius–Centaurus Association (sometimes called Sco–Cen or Sco OB2) is a group of stars near the Sun. They are 380 to 470 light years away.

They are young stars which all formed from the same cloud of material. They range from 11 to 15 million years old. They include the massive Antares, and most of the stars in the Southern Cross.

The Sco–Cen OB association is the main part of a large complex of recent (<20 million years) and ongoing star-formation. The complex contains several star-forming molecular clouds in Sco–Cen's immediate vicinity.

The stellar members of the Sco–Cen association have nearly parallel velocity vectors, moving at about 20 km/s with respect to the Sun. The variation of velocity within the subgroups is about 1–2 km/s, and the group is most likely no longer held together by gravity. Several supernovae have exploded in Sco–Cen over the past 15 million years, leaving a network of expanding gas superbubbles around the group.

Iron-60 found in fossilised bacteria in sea floor sediments suggests there was a supernova near the solar system about 2,000,000 years ago. Iron-60 is also found in sediments from 8 million years ago.

[[Albanian National Archives]]

CATEGORIES: Tirana, Albania, National archives in Europe, 1949 establishments in Europe

The Albanian National Archives (Arkivi Qëndror i Shtetit or A.Q.SH) is the official archives of the Republic of Albania. It maintains important papers about Albania. It is in the city of Tirana and has smaller archives around the country. It was started in 1949.  It used to be ran by the Party of Labour of Albania, who ran the country. They were Communists. They stopped running the country in 2001 and the Swiss Federal Archives had to help the Albanian National Archives become up to date, because it's collections were damaged and the archives had no computers to help people find papers it has. By 2004, it's collections were fixed and it had computers and people could easily find what they were looking for. The archives had many very important historical documents, including the Codex Beratinus, Codex Beratinus II, and version of the New Testament called the Elbasan Gospel Manuscript. In 2011, the archives started working with the World Digital Library, who puts the archives photographs and books on their website so more people can see them.

[[Tachikawa Ki-54]]

CATEGORIES: World War II Japanese aircraft, Military of Japan

The Tachikawa Ki-54 was a trainer aircraft used by the Imperial Japanese Army. It was called "Hickory" by the Allies for it's codename.

The aircraft was made because of a requirement by Imperial Japanese Army that they needed a twin-engine advanced trainer for training the crew. There is a Ki-54 fuselage in the storage at the Australian War Museum Annex.

[[Vaginal cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Vaginal cancer is a type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the vagina. Primary vaginal cancer is rare in the general population of women. Metastases are more common. Vaginal cancer occurs more often in women over age 50, but can occur at any age, even in when they're pregnant. It often can be cured if found and treated in its early stages. Surgery alone or surgery combined with pelvic radiation is typically used to treat vaginal cancer.

There are two primary types of vaginal cancer: squamous-cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma.

[[Anal cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Anal cancer is a type of cancer in the anus. It is different from the much more common colorectal cancer. The etiology, risk factors, clinical progression, staging, and treatment are all different. Anal cancer is mostly a squamous cell carcinoma that rises near the squamocolumnar area. 

Other types of anal carcinoma are adenocarcinoma, lymphoma, sarcoma or melanoma.

In the United States, it is estimated that in 2014 about 7,060 new cases of anal cancer would be diagnosed in the United States (4500 in women and 2,500 in men) .  It is typically found in adults, average age early 60s.

[[Colorectal cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Colorectal cancer, also known as colon cancer, rectal cancer, or bowel cancer, is a cancer in the colon or rectum (parts of the large intestine), or in the appendix. Genetic analysis shows that essentially colon and rectal tumours are genetically the same cancer. Symptoms of colorectal cancer typically include rectal bleeding and anemia which are sometimes associated with weight loss and changes in bowel habits. Colorectal cancer is that the development of cancer from the colonor rectum.

It is estimated that worldwide, 1.23 million new cases of colorectal cancer are clinically diagnosed and that it kills 608,000 people per year.

[[Duodenal cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Duodenal cancer is a type of cancer in the small intestine. It is something like gastric cancer and colorectal cancer. Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), Gardner Syndrome, Lynch Syndrome, Muir-Torre syndrome, Celiac sprue, Puetz-Jeghers, Crohn's Disease and Juvenile Polyposis Syndrome are risk factors for having this cancer.

The duodenum is the first part of the small intestine. It is located between the stomach and the jejunum. After foods combine with stomach acid, they go down into the duodenum where they mix with bile from the gall bladder and digestive juices from the pancreas.

[[Esophageal cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Esophageal cancer is a type of cancer in the esophagus. There are many types, mostly squamous cell cancer (about 90–95% of all esophageal cancer worldwide) and adenocarcinoma (about 50–80% of all esophageal cancer in the United States). 

Squamous cell cancer starts from the cells that line the upper part of the esophagus. Adenocarcinoma starts from glandular cells that are present at the lining of the esophagus and stomach.

[[Eye neoplasm]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Ocular oncology is the branch of medicine dealing with tumors relating to the eye and its adnexa. Eye cancer can affect all parts of the eye.

Eye cancers might start in the eye and it can metastatic cancer (spread to the eye from another organ). The two most common cancers that spread to the eye from another organ are breast cancer and lung cancer. Other less common sites of origin include the prostate, kidney, thyroid, skin, colon and blood or bone marrow.

This cancer is most common in children. There is a 95% of finding a cure for this cancer.

[[Gallbladder cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Gallbladder cancer is a rare type of cancer which forms in the gallbladder. It is most common in central and South America, central and eastern Europe, China, Japan and northern India. It is also common in certain ethnic groups e.g. Native Americans, Indians and Hispanics.

If it is diagnosed early enough, it can be cured by removing the gallbladder, part of the liver and lymph nodes.  Most often it is found after symptoms such as abdominal pain, jaundice and vomiting occur, and it has spread to other organs such as the liver.

[[Head and neck cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Head and neck cancer or throat cancer is a type of cancer which either beings in the lip, oral cavity (mouth), nasal cavity (inside the nose), paranasal sinuses, pharynx, and larynx. 90% of head and neck cancers are squamous cell carcinomas (SCCHN), originating from the mucosal lining (epithelium) of these regions. This cancer can be caused by drinking too much alcohol or chewing tobacco.

[[Hypopharyngeal cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Hypopharyngeal Cancer is a type of cancer in which malignant cells grow in the hypopharynx (the area where the larynx and esophagus meet). This type of cancer is rare. Only about 2,500 cases are seen in the US each year.

[[Laryngeal cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Laryngeal cancer may also be called cancer of the larynx or laryngeal carcinoma. Most laryngeal cancers are squamous cell carcinomas, reflecting their origin from the squamous cells which form the majority of the laryngeal epithelium.

Cancer can develop in any part of the larynx, but the cure rate is affected by the location of the tumour.

[[Salivary gland neoplasm]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Salivary gland cancer is a cancer that forms in tissues of a salivary gland. The salivary glands can be called major and minor. The major salivary glands consist of the parotid, submandibular, and sublingual glands. The minor glands include small mucus-secreting glands located throughout the palate, nasal and oral cavity. Salivary gland cancer is rare, with 2% of head and neck tumors forming in the salivary glands, the majority in the parotid.

[[African-American music]]

CATEGORIES: African-American history, Music genres

African-American music is types of music that were mostly developed by and for African-Americans. The main modern types are jazz, blues, gospel, soul, rock and roll, and hip hop. Other types such as ragtime also used to be popular.

[[Urethral cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Urethral cancer is cancer of the urethra. This cancer is very rare, and the most common type is papillary transitional cell carcinoma.

[[Vulvar cancer]]

CATEGORIES: Cancer

Vulvar cancer is a disease in which cells in the body grow out of control in or on the vulva. The vulva is the outer part of the female genital organs. It has two folds of skin, called the labia. Vulvar cancer most often occurs on the inner edges of the labia.

Cancer is always named for the part of the body where it starts, even if it spreads to other body parts later. When cancer starts in the vagina, it is called vaginal cancer. The vagina, also called the birth canal, is the hollow, tube-like channel between the bottom of the uterus and the outside of the body. When vulvar cancers are found early, treatment works best. 

[[The Octonauts]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 American television series debuts, 2010s American television series endings, British children's television series, American children's television series, English-language television programs

The Octonauts is an American-British-Ireland television series broadcasted by Disney Junior from March 24, 2012 until July 28, 2018. It is produced by Silvergate Media, Brown Bag Films, Chorion, and Disney Junior Original Production for the Disney Channel channel Disney Junior. Its first episode ran on March 24, 2012.

It is like Star Trek and Thunderbirds along with the adventures of Jacques Cousteau.

[[Kevin Cosgrove]]

CATEGORIES: People from New York, Businesspeople from New York, Victims of the September 11 attacks, 1955 births, 2001 deaths

Kevin Michael Cosgrove (January 6, 1955 – September 11, 2001) was an American businessman who died in the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center. He is best known for the 9-1-1 call that he made on September 11, 2001, which ended in him crying out from inside of the South Tower of the World Trade Center as it fell. He was born in Long Island, New York.

[[Richard Drew]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American photographers, September 11 attacks

Richard Drew (born 1946) is an Associated Press photo-journalist. He is best known for his photograph The Falling Man, which shows a man falling from the World Trade Center towers during the September 11 attacks. A British documentary about his photograph, The Falling Man, aired on Channel 4 on March 16, 2006.

Drew was one of the press photographers at the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy.  He has worked as an Associated Press photographer for over 40 years.

[[Say You'll Be There]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 songs, Spice Girls songs

"Say You'll Be There" is a pop single by the Spice Girls. It was recorded in sometime in 1995 though it was not released until the middle of October 1996. The song is about relationships and setting conditions for staying together. The song has various mixes, one of them eight minutes and thirty seconds. The song peaked at #3 for the Billboard Hot 100. It hit #1 over western Europe. The song got mixed reviews from critics. The music video was filmed in the Mojave Desert and spent 2 weeks at No.1 in the UK. 

[[Juice (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 crime movies, 1992 drama movies, 1990s crime drama movies, American crime drama movies, American gangster movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Manhattan, American independent movies

Juice is a 1992 American crime drama movie. It is about four young African-American men in Harlem who are being having trouble with police and gangs every day. They begin as friends, but the friendship goes bad after a robbery. One of the men shoots several others, killing two of them near a building, including his friend Raheem. The murderer later dies from falling off a building.

The movie got very positive reviews. It was filmed and completed in late 1991.

[[All Japan Pro Wrestling]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 establishments, Professional wrestling promotions, Sport in Japan, 1970s establishments in Japan

All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW/AJP) is an Japanese professional wrestling company founded on October 21, 1972 by Shohei Baba.

Baba died on January 31, 1999 and Mitsuharu Misawa became president afterwards. There was a majority vote of the executive board that wanted Misawa removed from his position which he was. On June 13, 2000, Misawa, Mitsuo Momota (co-vice president, member of directory), Kenta Kobashi (member of directory), Akira Taue (member of directory, chairman), Kenichi Oyagi (member of directory) and Yoshihiro Momota (member of directory) all resigned from their board positions and the next day, Motoko Baba (Shohei Baba's widow) released a two-page written statement where she claimed claimed that Misawa "took no responsibility and abandoned his duty."

On October 27 2013, Dory Funk, Jr. was announced as the new PWF chairman.

[[Gary Holt]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, American guitarists, American heavy metal musicians, Musicians from San Francisco, People from Richmond, California

Gary Wayne Holt (born May 4, 1964 in Richmond, California) is an American guitarist. He currently plays for the thrash metal bands Exodus and Slayer.

He joined Exodus in 1981 when guitarist Tim Agnello left the band. He is the only member of Exodus to have played on every one of their albums. He joined Slayer as a fill-in for guitarist Jeff Hanneman who was out after he contracted necrotizing fasciitis. He played with Slayer at the Big 4 Concert in Indio, California on April 23, 2011. After Jeff Hanneman died on May 2, 2013, Holt agreed to fill in and still tours for Slayer.

He said in an interview that his favorite bands are Venom, Motörhead, Black Sabbath, early Iron Maiden and Judas Priest.

He will provide some guitar solos on Slayer's eleventh studio album with the rest of the guitar work being done by Kerry King. King said that Holt would not be participating in writing and said that "fans aren't ready for it."

[[Valon Berisha]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, Norwegian footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Sportspeople from Stockholm

Valon Berisha (born 7 February 1993) is a Norwegian football player. In 2020 he had his first games for Ligue 1 club Reims.

Before that, he played as a midfielder for Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.

[[Thomas Dähne]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, German association football goalkeepers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Sportspeople from Bavaria

Thomas Dähne (born 4 January 1994) is a German football player. He currently plays in Austria for Red Bull Salzburg.

[[Duplex]]

CATEGORIES: Houses

Duplexes are buildings with apartments for two different households.  A duplex usually looks like other houses, but it has a separate entrance for each household.

In some places, the word "duplex" is more specific: In some regions, a "duplex" is a building with one unit above the other, separated by a floor and ceiling, but the staircase for upstairs residents is almost always indoors.  In other regions, a "duplex" is a twin house: The units are next to each other, separated by a wall.  In some regions, the word "duplex" is used for both kinds of buildings.  The word "duplex" is not used in some cities, particularly Detroit, Dallas or Chicago.

Some duplexes have basements.  Others do not.

[[Townhouse]]

CATEGORIES: Houses

Townhouses are medium-density housing in cities and towns. Modern townhouses are those with a small footprint on several floors. The buildings are exclusively occupied by the wealthy in Boston, Chicago, New York City, Philadelphia and Detroit. Other cities or towns, however, townhouses can be occupied regardless of income.

Townhouses date back to the 1700s.

[[Valentino Lazaro]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, 1996 births, Living people

Valentino Lazaro (born 23 March 1996) is a Austrian football player. He plays as an attacking midfielder for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga.

[[Lincoln MKT]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s automobiles, Lincoln automobiles

The Lincoln MKT is a luxury crossover. This vehicle was first made in 2009 for the 2010 model year. The vehicle can seat six or seven people. The MKT is built on the Ford D4 platform and serves as the luxury counterpart to the Ford Flex and Explorer. The MKT replaces the Lincoln Town Car as well as the midsize Aviator SUV and slots between the fullsize Navigator SUV and MKZ midsize crossover SUV. Sales of the model have been slow and production is planned to end in 2017, it's not yet known if it will be replaced. 

[[Cadillac SRX]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s automobiles, 2010s automobiles, Cadillac automobiles

The Cadillac SRX is a luxury crossover first made in 2004. This vehicle is Cadillac's best selling model 2010 and after.

The vehicle has side air bags. It was updated for 2010.

[[Montgomery District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of British India

Montgomery District is an administrative district of the former Punjab Province of British India. This is now in Pakistan. It was named after Sir Robert Montgomery. The district was in the Bari Doab, between the Sutlej and the Ravi rivers. It also included the Rechna Doab, which is between the Ravi and the Chenab rivers. The administrative headquarters were located in the town of Montgomery, now called Sahiwal. The name of Montgomery District was changed to Sahiwal District in 1978.

Butt Computers 

Muhammad Nadeem

03027729031

Computer Hardware & Network Professional 

CCTV Cameras Technician

[[Robert Montgomery (administrator)]]

CATEGORIES: Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of India, Knights Commander of the Order of the Bath, People from County Donegal, 1809 births, 1887 deaths, People of British India

Sir Robert Montgomery, GCSI, KCB (born 2 December 1809 in Moville, County Donegal, Ireland, died 28 December 1887 in India) was a British colonial administrator in India. 

Robert was born at the family seat at New Park, Moville. He was educated at Foyle College, Londonderry; Wraxall Hall School, Wiltshire; and, from 1823-5, at Addiscombe Military Seminary, Croydon, Surrey. In 1827 he was appointed to the Indian Civil Service. He married in India and brought up a family. His second son was Henry, father of Field Marshal Montgomery. Henry inherited the family estate in Ireland after his father's death.

[[Gurdaspur District]]

CATEGORIES: Districts of Punjab, India

Gurdaspur district is a district in the state of Punjab in India. Gurdaspur is the headquarters of the district. It borders Narowal District of the Pakistani Punjab, Kathua District of Jammu and Kashmir, the districts of Amritsar and Hoshiarpur in Punjab, and Chamba and Kangra districts of Himachal Pradesh. Two main rivers, Beas and Ravi, pass through the district. The Mughal emperor Akbar is said to have been enthroned in a garden near Kalanaur, a historically important town in the district. The district is in the foothills of the Himalayas.

[[Angry Birds Go!]]

CATEGORIES: Racing video games, 2013 video games, IOS games

Angry Birds Go! is a racing game developed by Rovio Entertainment. It is the first 3D video game by the company. It is also the first racing game in the Angry Birds series.

[[El Tio]]

CATEGORIES: Gods and goddesses, Bolivian culture

El Tío ("The Uncle") is believed in Potosí, Bolivia to be the lord of the underworld. There are many statues of this spirit looking like a devil in the mines. El Tío rules over the mines, and is said to give both protection and destruction.

[[Elisa's]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Sweden, Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

Elisa's is a Swedish dansband from Skaraborg. It was formed in 2009. The band is named after its lead singer Elisa Lindström. The band won the 2010 Dansbandskampen competition.

The band was launched by young musicians in Musikgymnasiet i Skövde (the Music College in Skövde). During 2010, the band's fame spread in Sweden. Their first single, "Hey Go So Long", was recorded in February 2010. In 2011 the band went to the top of the Swedish Albums Chart with their first studio album Det här är bara början.

[[Drifters]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s music groups, 1970s Swedish music groups, 1980s Swedish music groups, 1990s Swedish music groups, 2000s Swedish music groups, 2010s Swedish music groups, Dansbands, Musical groups established in 1962, 1962 establishments in Sweden

Drifters is dansband from Skövde in Sweden. It was formed in 1962 and has won many prizes. They are signed to the Lionheart International record label.

[[Harley Jane Kozak]]

CATEGORIES: People from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Pennsylvania, 1957 births, Living people

Harley Jane Kozak (born 28 January 1957) is an American actress and book writer. She starred in movies like Parenthood and All I Want for Christmas. She played various characters in the CBS soap Guiding Light.

Kozak was born in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. She was raised in Nebraska.

[[Jenny Saléns]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 2003, Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

Jenny Saléns is a dansband from Sweden. The band has scored successes at the Swedish album chart. It was formed in May 2003. Its saxophonist Niklas Adamsson won the "Wind musician of the Year" award at the 2007 Guldklaven awards. Bandmember Niklas Adamsson was chosen as "Cultural Award Winner of the Year" in Hylte Municipality later in 2007.

Jenny Saléns released their live album Vår egen bröllopsdag on 5 January 2008. It contains 15 songs recorded during a dancing event at Mälarsalen in Stockholm in November 2007.

The band participated at Dansbandskampen in 2008.

[[Forbes (band)]]

CATEGORIES: Dansbands, Swedish musical groups, 1970s music groups, Musical groups established in the 1970s, 1970s establishments in Sweden, Musical groups disestablished in the 1970s, 20th century disestablishments in Sweden, 1970s disestablishments in Europe

Forbes was a Swedish dansband of the 1970s.

The band represented Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1977, with the entry "Beatles". The song is about the British band The Beatles. Despite the popular topic of the song, Forbes ended in last place and received only two points. It was one of the worst placements ever for a Swedish entry at Eurovision.  

The band was made up of Peter Forbes, Roger Capello, Claes Bure, Peter Björk, Anders Hector and Chino Mariano.

[[OFC Nations Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Football competitions, Sport in Oceania, 1973 establishments in Oceania

The OFC Nations Cup is an international football (soccer) tournament held among member nations of the Oceania Football Confederation (OFC). It was first held in 1973, under the name Oceania Nations Cup. It was held every two years from 1996 to 2004; since then it has been held every four years.

[[Berth Idoffs]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 establishments in Sweden, Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

Berth Idoffs is a dansband from Bromölla, Sweden. It was formed in 1955.

[[We Wish You a Merry Christmas]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas music

"We Wish You a Merry Christmas" is a popular 16th century Christmas carol that comes from the West Country of England. It comes from the English tradition in which rich people gave Christmas treats such as figgy puddings, a type of pudding like the modern day Christmas pudding, to carolers on Christmas Eve.

[[The Playtones]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 2008, Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

The Playtones is a Swedish rock band. It was formed in 2008 in Kallinge. Their music is influenced by rockabilly, and they play 1950s rock and roll. The band was called Boppin' Steve & The Playtones before 2008. They won the dansband competition Dansbandskampen in 2009. In 2011 the band competed in Melodifestivalen, the Swedish pre-seletion for the Eurovision Song Contest.

[[It's Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas]]

CATEGORIES: Christmas music, 1950s songs

"It's Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas" is a popular Christmas song written by Meredith Willson in 1951. The song was originally titled "It's Beginning to Look Like Christmas". There have been versions done by many different singers, such as Perry Como and Bing Crosby. Crosby's version was extremely popular and is played a lot during the Christmas holidays.

[[Luyten 726-8]]

CATEGORIES: variable stars, Red dwarfs

Luyten 726-8 (UV Ceti or Gliese 65) is a binary star which is one of Earth's nearest neighbours. It is about 8.7 light years from Earth in the constellation Cetus. One of the pair, UV Ceti, was the archetype for the class of flare stars.

The star system was discovered in 1948 by W.J Luyten in the course of compiling a catalogue of stars of high proper motion; he noted its exceptionally high proper motion of 3.37 arc seconds annually and catalogued it as Luyten 726-8.

The two stars are of nearly equal brightness, with apparent magnitudes of 12.57 and 11.99 as seen from Earth. They orbit one another every 26.5 years. The distance between the two stars varies from 2.1 to 8.8 AU. Its own nearest neighbour is Tau Ceti, 0.88 away from it.

Both the stars are variables. The most spectacular is Luyten 726-8B, which was given the variable star designation UV Ceti (the other star is also known as BL Ceti). Although UV Ceti was not the first flare star discovered, it is the most prominent example of such a star, and similar flare stars are now known as UV Ceti type variable stars.  This star goes through fairly extreme changes of brightness: for instance, in 1952, its brightness increased by 75 times in only 20 seconds. UV Ceti is a red dwarf of spectral type M6.0e.

[[Ovaltine]]

CATEGORIES: Drinks

Ovaltine is a brand of milk product mixed with whey, malt and sugar. Certain flavors also have cocoa. Before 2007, Ovaltine had competed against Nesquik, claiming it was better than Nesquik.

The product began in 1904.

[[George Darwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1845 births, 1912 deaths, Academics of the University of Cambridge, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, Darwin family, English astronomers, English mathematicians, Fellows of the Royal Society, People from Kent

Sir George Howard Darwin, KCB FRS (9 July 1845 – 7 December 1912) was an English astronomer and mathematician.

He was born at Down House in Kent. His father was Charles Darwin (a famous biologist). His mother was Emma Darwin (Charles's wife).

He worked at Cambridge University.

[[Florian Klein]]

CATEGORIES: Austrian footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, 1986 births, Living people

Florian Klein (born 17 November 1986) is an Austrian football player. He plays for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga as a defender.

[[Tokyo Police Club]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s music groups, 2005 establishments in Canada, 2010s music groups, Alternative rock bands, Canadian rock bands, Indie rock bands, Musical groups established in 2005

Tokyo Police Club is a Canadian indie rock band from Newmarket, Ontario.

Tokyo Police Club was formed in 2005 by the members of the former band Suburbia. The band played at the Pop Montreal festival and were soon after signed to the Toronto label Paper Bag Records.

The band released their first record, an EP called A Lesson in Crime, on April 25, 2006. Their second EP Smith EP was released on October 23, 2007 in Canada and on November 6, 2007 in the United States. They released their first studio album Elephant Shell on April 22, 2008. Their second studio album Champ was released on June 8, 2010. Their third album which is currently untitled is being mixed in Los Angeles.

[[Ida of Bernicia]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, 560s deaths, Kings and queens, Year of birth unknown

Ida († 559–60) is the first known king of the Anglian kingdom of Bernicia. He was called Ida the 'Flame-bearer' by Welsh poets. Ida ruled from around 547 until his death. He is considered the founder of a line of Anglian kings who later ruled the powerful kingdom of Northumbria.

[[Perikles]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 establishments in Sweden, Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

Perikles is a Swedish dansband. It was formed in 1974. Their most successful single on the charts has been "Var ska vi sova i natt?". It is a cover version of "Sarà perché ti amo". The band has released many albums that include both their own music and versions of other people's music.

Perikles participated in Melodifestivalen in 1994 with the song "Vill du resa till månen med mig?". It was in a bid to represent Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest the same year.

[[Zekes]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in Sweden, Dansbands, Swedish musical groups, 2012 disestablishments in Sweden

Zekes was a dansband from Skara, Sweden. It was formed in January 2009. The band participated at Dansbandskampen in 2009, where they reached the final. On 27 December 2009, the song "I ett fönster" entered Svensktoppen, the Swedish record chart.

In June 2012, SR Skaraborg announced that the band would split up after its summer tour of 2012. Their final appearance was at Matfestivalen in Skövde in August that year.

[[Rolandz]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in Europe, Dansbands, Swedish musical groups, 2000s establishments in Sweden

Rolandz is a dansband from Sweden. It was established in 2008 by Robert Gustafsson. They first became successful during a Dansbandskampen break appearance in 2008. In 2009, the band participated at Allsång på Skansen on 7 July 2009.

The singer and leader of Rolandz is the character Roland Järverup, whom Robert Gustafsson played in the 1999 movie Screwed in Tallinn by Killinggänget. The idea to create Rolandz using the Roland Järverup character was developed later.

[[Larz-Kristerz]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 2001, Dansbands, Swedish musical groups

Larz-Kristerz is a Swedish dansband. It was founded in Älvdalen in 2001. It was the winner of the 2008 edition of Dansbandskampen. The band is known to use Hagström instruments and public address systems. Their album Hem till dig famously stopped U2's No Line On the Horizon from reaching number 1 in the Swedish charts. It was the only country where No Line On the Horizon did not reach this position.

[[Radio Flyer]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s drama movies, 1992 movies

Radio Flyer is a drama and fantasy movie. It was released in February 1992. The story is about two boys who endured child abuse in the 1950s, alcoholism and desertion by their family. One of the boys escapes a tormenting man to whom his mother got married. Lorraine Bracco plays Mary, Elijah Wood plays Mike and Tom Hanks plays adult Mike.

The movie got negative reviews. Roger Ebert, in particular, condemned Radio Flyer as using fantasy to escape child abuse.

[[Practical Magic]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 romance movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1998 comedy-drama movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic drama movies

Practical Magic is a romantic comedy drama movie. It was released October 1998. The story is based on a novel from the 1990s. It is about sisters who are witches. After the death of their parents, they are raised by aunts who are also witches. Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman play the sisters. Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest play the aunts.

Practical Magic received very bad reviews. Against a budget of $75 million, the movie took in only $68 million.

[[Angry Birds Space]]

CATEGORIES: Puzzle video games, 2012 video games

italictitleAngry Birds Space is a video game developed by Rovio Entertainment. Similar to Angry Birds, players use a slingshot to control birds without wings. The target is to destroy all the pigs. However, the gravitational field is completely different from Angry Birds.

[[Lil Scrappy]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, African American musicians, American rap musicians from Georgia, Singers from Atlanta, Georgia

Darryl Kevin Richardson II (born January 19, 1984) is an American rapper and actor. He is better known as Lil Scrappy.

He was born in Atlanta, Georgia.

He released his first album Bred 2 Die · Born 2 Live on December 5, 2006. The album featured the single "Money in the Bank". This song was featured in the video game WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2007. He released his second album Tha Gru$tle on June 26, 2012.

He also was featured in the hip hop drama movie Just Another Day where he played the character "Jay". Scrappy appears on the VH1 reality show Love & Hip Hop: Atlanta. He is working on a third studio album which is expected to be released sometime in Spring 2014.

[[Lalande 21185]]

CATEGORIES: Red dwarfs

Lalande 21185 is a red dwarf in the constellation of Ursa Major. Although relatively close by, it is only magnitude 7 in visible light and thus is too dim to see with the unaided eye. The star is visible through a small telescope.

At approximately 8.31 away this star is the fifth closest stellar system to the Sun; only the Alpha Centauri system, Barnard's Star, WISE 1049-5319 and Wolf 359 are closer. Because of its proximity it is a frequent subject for astronomical surveys and other research. It is known by other designations, such as BD+36 2147, Gliese 411, and HD 95735.

[[Reorganized National Government of China]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in China, 1940s in Japan, Former countries in Asia, World War II, Puppet states

The Reorganized National Government of China (中華民國國民政府), also known as the Wang Jingwei regime (汪精衛政權) was a puppet government in China. It was led by Wang Jingwei, under the protection of the Empire of Japan. The regime ended in 1945, at the end of World War II.

[[Hong Kong 1967 Leftist riots]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 in Asia, 1960s in China, 1960s riots, History of Hong Kong

Hong Kong 1967 Leftist riots were a series of large-scale leftist riots under the effect of the Cultural Revolution. At the beginning, there were just strike actions and demonstrations. Later they grew into large-scale demonstrations against British colonial rule. The riots became more violent when the leftists set off bombs in the city. They also resorted to murdering some members of the press who voiced their opposition to the violence. In total there were 51 deaths and 802 injuries were caused in the riots.

[[Ross 154]]

CATEGORIES: Variable stars, Red dwarfs

Ross 154 (also named V1216 Sgr) is a star in the southern zodiac constellation of Sagittarius. It has an apparent magnitude of 10.44, so it is much too faint to be seen with the naked eye. The distance to this star can be estimated from parallax measurements, which places it at 9.69 away from Earth. It is the nearest star in the southern constellation Sagittarius, and one of the closest to the Sun.

This star was first catalogued by American astronomer Frank Elmore Ross in 1925. Ross 154 was found to be a UV Ceti-type flare star, with a mean time between major flares of about two days. The first such flare activity was observed from Australia in 1951 when the star increased in magnitude by 0.4. Usually, the star will increase by 3–4 magnitudes during a flare. 

Ross 154 is an X-ray source and it has been detected by several X-ray observatories. The quiescent X-ray luminosity is about 9 × 1027 ergs s−1. X-ray flare emission from this star has been observed by Chandra observatory, with a particularly large flare emitting 2.3 × 1033 erg.

This is a red dwarf star that is generating energy through the nuclear fusion of hydrogen at its core. It has an estimated 17% of the Sun's mass and 24% of the Sun's radius, but it is radiating only 0.38% of the luminosity of the Sun.

This is probably a young star with an age of less than a billion years. The abundance of elements heavier than helium is about half that in the Sun.

[[LaTavia Roberson]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, African American musicians, Living people, Grammy Award winners

LaTavia Marie Roberson (born November 1, 1981) is an American singer and songwriter. She started the girl band Destiny's Child with Beyoncé Knowles in 1990. She was a member until 2000.

[[Rodnei]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian footballers, 1985 births, Living people, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Rodnei Francisco de Lima (born 11 September 1985 in São Paulo), is a Brazilian football player. His player name is Rodnei. He is playing for Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga as a defender.

[[Havard Nielsen]]

CATEGORIES: Norwegian footballers, 1993 births, Living people, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Håvard Nielsen (born 15 July 1993) is a Norwegian football player. He plays as a forward for Eintracht Braunschweig in the German Bundesliga.

[[Hyades (star cluster)]]

CATEGORIES: Open star clusters

The Hyades (also known as Melotte 25 or Collinder 50) is the nearest open star cluster to the Solar System and one of the best-studied of all star clusters. 

The Hipparcos satellite, the Hubble Space Telescope, and infrared color-magnitude diagram fitting agree a distance of ~153 ly (47 pc) to the cluster centre. The distances given by these three independent methods make the Hyades an important rung on the cosmic distance ladder.  

The cluster consists of a roughly spherical group of hundreds of stars sharing the same age, place of origin, chemical content, and motion through space. From the perspective of observers on Earth, the Hyades cluster is in the constellation Taurus, where its brightest stars form a "V" shape with the even brighter red giant Aldebaran. Aldebaran is completely unrelated to the Hyades, because it is much closer to Earth (hence its apparent brightness) and just happens to lie along the same line of sight.

The four brightest member stars of the Hyades are all red giants that began life as A-type stars and have now evolved off the main sequence. All are within a few light years of each other.  Their Bayer designations are Gamma, Delta, Epsilon, and Theta Tauri.  They form a pattern which was identified as the head of Taurus the Bull.  Epsilon Tauri, also known as Ain (the "Bull's Eye"), harbours at least one gas giant planet.

The age of the Hyades is about 625 million years. The cluster core, where stars are most densely packed, has a radius of 2.7 parsecs (corresponding to a diameter of 17.6 light years), and the cluster's tidal radius is 10 parsecs (corresponding to a diameter of 65 light years). About one-third of confirmed member stars have been observed well outside this boundary, in the cluster's extended halo. These stars are probably in the process of escaping from its gravitational influence.

[[Central and South Asian Football Federation]]

CATEGORIES: Football organizations, Sport in Asia

The Central and South Asian Football Federation (CASAFF) is a sub-grouping of the Asian Football Confederation. It consists of 12 countries divided into two groups: the South Asian Football Federation (SAFF, eight countries) and the Central Asian Football Federation (CAFF, four countries). This confederation is the least successful of the four sub-federations of the Asian Football Confederation.

[[Kathryn Hahn]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Illinois, 1973 births, Living people

Kathryn Hahn (born July 23, 1973) is an American actress. She played Lily for six years in the television program Crossing Jordan on NBC. She played a hippie in the sitcom Our Idiot Brother, also on NBC. She also played Karen in the movie Wanderlust.

Hahn was born in Westchester, Illinois, near Chicago. She was raised near Cleveland, Ohio.

[[Cleveland Heights, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in Ohio, 1903 establishments in the United States, Cities in Ohio

Cleveland Heights is a mid-sized city in northeastern Ohio. The city is a suburb of Cleveland. The population in the 2010 United States Census was just over 46,000.

It was founded in 1903 as a village. The city government was formed on August 1921.

[[Malmesbury]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wiltshire, Market towns in England

Malmesbury is a market town in north Wiltshire, just south of the Cotswolds. The town became popular during the Middle Ages as the abbey as a center for learning. It is the oldest borough in England. Malmesbury was created by a charter of Alfred the Great about 880 AD. It was once the site of an Iron Age hill fort.

[[Ottawa Public Library]]

CATEGORIES: Libraries, Buildings and structures in Ottawa

The Ottawa Public Library (abbreviated OPL) is a library in Ottawa, Canada. It was founded in 1906.  This is the largest bilingual library (English and French) of North America. 

[[Frozen food]]

CATEGORIES: Frozen foods

Frozen food is food that is frozen to be preserved for eating later. Frozen food is done this way to keep the food from spoiling as fast. Such products do not need preservatives. Frozen foods are usually packaged or put in containers.

Some foods that are often frozen are vegetables, pizzas and chicken.

[[Outkast]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 1992, African-American musical groups, Grammy Award winners

Outkast are two American hip-hop musicians, André "André 3000" Benjamin and Antwan "Big Boi" Patton. At first they were known as Two Shades Deep. Their early music was a mixture of Southern hip hop and G-funk. Their later music includes rock, electronic, soul, jazz, funk, and blues sounds. In 2003 Outkast's singles "Hey Ya!" and "The Way You Move" reached number one in the Billboard Hot 100. Outkast have won six Grammy Awards.

[[Gangnam District]]

CATEGORIES: Seoul

Gangnam District is one of the 25 gu (local government districts) which make up the city of Seoul, South Korea. Gangnam is Seoul's third biggest district. The music video for Psy's 2012 number one "Gangnam Style" was made in Gangnam District.

[[Keeping Up with the Kardashians]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 American television series debuts, 2000s American reality television series, 2000s LGBT television series, 2010s American reality television series, 2010s LGBT television series, American LGBT television programs, Kardashian family, Television series about siblings, Television series set in Los Angeles, California, English-language television programs

Keeping Up with the Kardashians is an American reality television series that airs on E!. It started on October 14, 2007. It is about the personal and professional lives of the Kardashian and Jenner families. It focuses on sisters Kourtney, Kim, and Khloé Kardashian, as well as their brother Rob Kardashian, their mother Kris Jenner, their stepfather Caitlyn Jenner, their half-sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner, and Kourtney's boyfriend Scott Disick. It has aired for eight seasons. It aired its 100th episode on August 11, 2013.

The show has gotten good reviews from critics. However, it is often criticized for using the "famous for being famous" concept, where a celebrity becomes famous for no identifiable reason. It has also been criticized for making up most of its storyline. The show has had four spin-offs: Kourtney and Kim Take Miami, Kourtney and Kim Take New York, Khloé & Lamar and Kourtney and Khloe Take the Hamptons.

On September 8, 2020, the show will end after 20 seasons.

[[Rap God]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 songs, Eminem songs

"Rap God" is a 2013 hip hop song by the American rapper Eminem. It is the third single from his eighth studio album The Marshall Mathers LP 2 which was released on November 5, 2013. 

Eminem raps 97 words in 15 seconds (an average of 6.5 words per second) in a verse that starts 4:26 into the song. He described this as "supersonic speed":

The song has been praised for Eminem's rapping speed and his lyrical ability.

It was ranked #14 on Complex's list of the 50 best songs of 2013 and it was ranked #15 on Rolling Stone's list of the 100 best songs of 2013.

[[Connex South Eastern]]

CATEGORIES: Defunct railway companies of the United Kingdom, Rail transport in England, 1996 establishments in England, 2003 disestablishments in England, Train operating companies

Connex South Eastern was a train operating company in the United Kingdom. It was owned by Connex. It operated the South Eastern Passenger Rail Franchise from October 1996 until November 2003.

Its services were stopped because of money problems and using old trains instead of buying new ones.

[[South Eastern Trains]]

CATEGORIES: Railway operators in London, Defunct railway companies of the United Kingdom, 2003 establishments in England, Train operating companies, 2006 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 21st century disestablishments in England

South Eastern Trains was a train operating company that operated the South Eastern Passenger Rail Franchise from November 2003 until 1 April 2006.

It took over from Connex South Eastern in November 2003 and was taken over by Southeastern in April 2006.

[[Nonpareils]]

CATEGORIES: Candy

Nonpareils are a decorative confectionery of tiny balls made with sugars and starch. They come in many colors. They are used for decorating cakes, bread and cookies.

Nonpareils date back to the 18th century.

[[Lulu Roman]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, Musicians from Texas, American comedians, 1946 births, Living people

Lulu Roman (or Bertha Louise Hable; born 6 May 1946) is an American comedian and singer. She acted in the television comedy Hee Haw. She sings mostly gospel music. In 1984, Roman received a Dove Award from the Gospel Music Association for her album You were Loving Me. In 2003 she was the author of a book titled Kitchen Komforts. 

Roman was born in Dallas, Texas.

[[Surge]]

CATEGORIES: Coca-Cola, Soft drinks

Surge was a soft drink manufactured (made) by The Coca-Cola Company. The product was made mostly in the United States beginning in early 1997. The soda was marketed as a substitute to Mountain Dew. It was created because Coca-Cola wanted to take customers from Pepsi. The brand was very popular at first, but that didn't last.

Surge stopped being made in 2003. Surge was re-released by Coca-Cola as an Amazon exclusive in packs of 12 16oz cans because of the success of the "Surge Movement" campaign on September 15, 2014.

[[Brittney Griner]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, African-American basketball players, Lesbians, LGBT African Americans, LGBT people from Texas, LGBT sportspeople, Living people, Models from Houston, Texas, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas, American basketball players

Brittney Yevette Griner (born October 18, 1990) is an American basketball player. She is 6 ft and 8 inches tall. She was the first NCAA basketball player ever to score 2,000 points and block 500 shots. She came out as lesbian in 2013. She plays for the Phoenix Mercury of the Women’s National Basketball Association. She was signed by Nike to model their mens clothes.

[[Frédéric Back]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2013 deaths, Academy Award winners, Animators, Cancer deaths in Quebec, Canadian movie directors, Canadian screenwriters, People from Saarland

Frédéric Back (April 8, 1924 – December 24, 2013) was a Canadian artist and movie director of short animated movies. He won two Academy Awards. His first was for his movie Tout rein and his second for Crac!.

Back was born in Saarbrücken, Saar. He moved to Canada in 1948. He worked as a teacher at École des Beaux-Arts de Montréal. Back died of cancer in Montreal on December 24, 2013.

[[Allan McKeown]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from prostate cancer, British television producers, People from London, Emmy Award winners

John McKeown, better known as Allan McKeown (21 May 1946 – 24 December 2013), was a British television producer. He was known for producing Tracey Takes On.... This show starred his wife Tracey Ullman. He won an Emmy Award.

McKeown was born in London. He married Ullman in 1983. They had two children. Their marriage would last until McKeown's death. He lived in Los Angeles. His net worth was £75 million.

McKeown died in Los Angeles, after suffering from prostate cancer.

[[Adnan Şenses]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2013 deaths, Bursa, Deaths from stomach cancer, Disease-related deaths in Turkey, People from Ankara, Turkish movie actors, Turkish singers

Adnan Şenses (21 August 1935 – 25 December 2013) was a Turkish musician and actor. 

Şenses was born in Bursa, Turkey. He was raised and studied in Ankara. He began his singing career in 1956. He appeared in over 47 movies.

Şenses died from stomach cancer in Istanbul, aged 78.

[[Dr. Tangalanga]]

CATEGORIES: 1916 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Argentine writers, Argentine comedians, Actors from Buenos Aires

Julio Victorio De Rissio (10 November 1916 – 26 December 2013), or Dr. Tangalanga, was a famous Argentine comedian, actor and writer. He was known for his prank phone calls to people who were not expecting it.

Tangalanga was born in Buenos Aires. His career began in 1964. Tangalanga died in Buenos Aires from natural causes. He was aged 97.

[[William Jay Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, American poets, Writers from Louisiana, Writers from Missouri

William Jay Smith (22 April 1918 – 18 August 2015) was an American poet. He was the 19th Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress from 1968 to 1970. 

William Jay Smith was born in Winnfield, Louisiana. He was raised in Jackson Barracks, Missouri. Smith studied at Washington University in St. Louis.

Smith married Barbara Howes in 1947. They had two children. Howes and Smith divorced during the mid-1960s. As of 2008, he lived in two houses, one in Cummington, Massachusetts and the other in Paris.

Smith died in Lenox, Massachusetts at the age of 97.

[[Hal Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2017 deaths, American military personnel of the Korean War, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, Deaths from stroke, People from Kentucky

Harold Gregory "Hal" Moore Jr. (February 13, 1922 – February 10, 2017) was a lieutenant general in the United States Army. He was also an author. Moore was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, which is the second highest military honor of the United States Army.

Moore was born in Bardstown, Kentucky. He graduated from the Military Academy in 1945. He was the first of his class to be promoted to brigadier general, major general, and lieutenant general. He fought during the Korean War and Vietnam War.

[[Drew Dennis Dix]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, Majors, People from New York, Purple Heart recipients, United States Army Medal of Honor recipients

Drew Dennis Dix (born December 14, 1944) is a United States military veteran. He was a major in the United States Army. He received the Medal of Honor for his actions in the Vietnam War. He was the first enlisted Special Forces soldier to receive the medal.

[[Charles H. Coolidge]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2021 deaths, American military personnel of World War II, Military people from Tennessee, Medal of Honor recipients, Deaths from multiple sclerosis

Charles Henry Coolidge (August 4, 1921 – April 6, 2021) was a United States Army soldier. He was awarded the United States military's highest decoration—the Medal of Honor. He received this honor for his actions in World War II. He was the oldest living person to have been given the Medal of Honor at the time of his death.

Coolidge died on April 6, 2021 at his home in Chattanooga, Tennessee from problems caused by multiple sclerosis, aged 99.

[[Hector A. Cafferata, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2016 deaths, American military people, People from New York City

Hector Albert Cafferata, Jr. (November 4, 1929 – April 12, 2016) was a retired United States Marine. He received the Medal of Honor for his heroic service at the Battle of Chosin Reservoir during the Korean War. 

[[Elinor Donahue]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Washington

Mary Eleanor Donahue (born April 19, 1937), best known as Elinor Donahue, is an American actress. She was known for her role in the 1950s sitcom, Father Knows Best. She was born in Tacoma, Washington

Donahue was married for nearly 30 years to producer Harry Ackerman. They met each other on the set of Father Knows Best. She and Ackerman had three children together: Peter, James, and Christopher Ackerman.

[[Lilyan Chauvin]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2008 deaths, Deaths from breast cancer, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, Naturalized citizens of the United States, French movie actors, French television actors, French stage actors, French screenwriters, Teachers, Movie directors from Paris, Movie producers from Paris, Actors from Paris, Writers from Paris, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American screenwriters, American movie directors, American movie producers

Lilyan Chauvin (born Lilyan Zemoz August 6, 1925 – died June 26, 2008) was a French-American actress, television host, director and writer.

She appeared in some famous movies such as Silent Night, Deadly Night (1984) and Catch Me If You Can (2002). In the 1990s and 2000s she guest-starred in such television shows as The X-Files, Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, Friends, Alias, Malcolm in the Middle and Ugly Betty.

Chauvin died at her home in Studio City, California. She was aged 82. She had suffered from breast cancer for many years and from congestive heart disease.

[[Fred Stobaugh]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2017 deaths, American songwriters, Writers from Illinois, People from Peoria, Illinois

Fred Stobaugh (August 22, 1917 – November 23, 2016) was an American retired driver and songwriter. He became well known after he submitted a song, "Oh Sweet Lorraine", to a music competition. The song was about his wife of 72 years. It became a viral video in September 2013. The song was soon entered in the Billboard Hot 100.

[[Ronald Reagan Freedom Award]]

CATEGORIES: Awards, Things named after Ronald Reagan

The Ronald Reagan Freedom Award is the highest civilian honor by the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation. The award is given to "those who have made monumental and lasting contributions to the cause of freedom worldwide."

Today, the award is given by Former First Lady Nancy Reagan on behalf of her husband, who died in June 2004. The award was first given in 1992, by President Ronald Reagan himself, as well as in 1993, but in 1994 Mrs. Reagan presented the award instead of her husband due to his poor health.

In order to receive this honor, the recipient must "have made monumental and lasting contributions to the cause of freedom worldwide," as well as "embody President Reagan's lifelong belief that one man or woman truly can make a difference."

[[Westerlund 1]]

CATEGORIES: Super star clusters

Westerlund 1 (Wd1, also called Ara Cluster) is a compact young super star cluster. It is in the Milky Way galaxy, about 3.5–5 kiloparsecs (12000–16000 light years) away from Earth.

It is the most massive compact young star cluster known in the entire Local Group of galaxies. It was discovered by Bengt Westerlund in 1961. It remained largely unstudied for many years due to high interstellar extinction (absorption) in its direction. In the future, it will probably evolve into a globular cluster.

The cluster contains a large number of rare, evolved, high-mass stars, including: six yellow hypergiants, four red supergiants, 24 Wolf-Rayet stars, a luminous blue variable, many OB supergiants, and an unusual supergiant sgBe star which may be the remnant of a recent stellar merger. In addition, X-ray observations have revealed the presence of a strange X-ray pulsar, a slow rotating neutron star that must have formed from a high-mass progenitor star. Westerlund 1 is believed to have formed in a single burst of star formation, so the stars have similar ages and compositions.

Apart from hosting some of the most massive and least-understood stars in the galaxy, Westerlund 1 is useful as an example of a relatively nearby, so easier to observe, super star cluster  to help astronomers find out what happens in extragalactic super star clusters.

[[Super star cluster]]

CATEGORIES: Super star clusters

Super star clusters are huge star clusters of very young large stars. They are thought to be precursors of globular clusters. Their short-lived huge blue stars emit lots of UV radiation which ionises the surrounding gas. Examples are Westerlund 1 and 2 in the Milky Way, and R136 in the Larger Magellanic Cloud. Nearby galaxy NGC 1569 has two SSCs.

[[Miss Representation]]

CATEGORIES: 2011 movies, Feminism, American independent movies

Miss Representation is a 2011 American documentary film. It was written, directed, and produced by Jennifer Siebel Newsom. It is about how the American media is sexist. The documentary has interviews with Condoleezza Rice, Margaret Cho, Jane Fonda, Lisa Ling, Nancy Pelosi, Katie Couric, Rachel Maddow, Rosario Dawson, Cory Booker, Geena Davis, Dr. Jackson Katz, Dr. Jean Kilbourne, and Gloria Steinem. On January 22, 2011 the film was shown at the Sundance Film Festival. Miss Representation won Outstanding Documentary at the 2012 Gracie Allen Awards.

[[Brandi Love]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Actors from Raleigh, North Carolina, American adult models, American pornographic actors, American sex industry businesspeople, Businesspeople from North Carolina, Models from North Carolina, American bloggers

Brandi Love, stage name of Tracey Lynn Livermore, (born on March 29, 1973) is an American adult model and pornographic actress. She is the co-owner and Chief Financial Officer of No Rivals Media, a pornography company. She is also the creator of parentsinadult.com, an organization dedicated to parents working in the sex industry.

She was born in Raleigh, North Carolina.

[[Simi Valley, California]]

CATEGORIES: Simi Valley, California, County seats in California

Simi Valley is a city in the state of California, in the United States. It is the county seat of Ventura County. As of the 2010 Census the population is 124,237.

[[Royal Academy of Dramatic Art]]

CATEGORIES: 1904 establishments in England, Educational institutions, London, Education in England

The Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) is a drama school in London, England. It is one of the oldest drama schools in the United Kingdom. It was founded in 1904 by Herbert Beerbohm Tree. It is thought to be one of the best drama schools in the world. Architect Bryan Avery designed the university.

The President of RADA is actor Kenneth Branagh since the death of Richard Attenborough in August 2014. The Vice-Chairman is yet to be announced since the last one Alan Rickman died while in position in January 2016. Many famous actors have studied here.

[[Lưu Hữu Phước]]

CATEGORIES: Composers, Vietnamese people

Lưu Hữu Phước (12 September 1921 - 8 June 1989) was a Vietnamese composer. He composed Thanh Niên Hành Khúc (English: March of the Students), the national anthem of South Vietnam. After he became a communist, he composed Giải phóng miền Nam (English: Release the South), the national anthem of Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam.

[[Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam]]

CATEGORIES: Former countries in Asia, Vietnam War, 20th century in Vietnam

Provisional Revolutionary Government of the Republic of South Vietnam, also known as Republic of South Vietnam or PRG was a former country that existed in Asia from 1969 to 1976. It was established on 6 June, 1969 with the support of North Vietnam and Viet Cong. The PRG existed as an underground government to the  Republic of Vietnam until 1975. On 30 April, 1975, following the surrender of the government of Republic of Vietnam, the PRG officially became the government of Southern Vietnam. From then, it existed as an puppet state of North Vietnam. On 2 July, 1976, the PRG merged with North Vietnam to create a new country - Socialist Republic of Vietnam.

[[İstiklâl Marşı]]

CATEGORIES: National anthems, Turkey, Northern Cyprus

İstiklâl Marşı (en. Independence March) is the national anthem of the Republic of Turkey. It became the national anthem on 12 March 1921, two and a half years before Turkey became a country. This song is meant for a motivational musical saga for the troops who have fought in the Turkish War of Independence, and an aspiration for the country's independence.

The words were written by Mehmet Âkif Ersoy, and its melody (music) was composed by Osman Zeki Üngör. The main theme about this song is about the homeland of the Turkish people, their freedom, as well as faith and praise for their virtues of hope, devotion, and sacrifice in the pursuit of liberty. They relate to their flag, human spirit, and the soil of the homeland. Part of the lyrics make references to the sacrifice of the soldiers, as well as the Turkish National Movement's victory of the War of Independence.

It is also used as the national anthem of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), which was adopted in 1983 under Article II of the Constitution of Northern Cyprus.

[[Emilie de Ravin]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, Living people, Australian television actors, Australian movie actors, Actors from Victoria (Australia)

Emilie de Ravin (born December 27, 1981) is an Australian actress. She played Tess Harding on the show Roswell. She also played Barbara Patzke in the 2009 movie Public Enemies.

She was on Lost until 2010.

Ravin was born in Mount Eliza, Victoria, Australia.

[[Survivor Series (1993)]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 in professional wrestling, 1993 in the United States, Sports in Boston, Massachusetts, Survivor Series, 20th century in Boston, Massachusetts, 1990s in Massachusetts

Survivor Series (1994) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It was held on November 24, 1993 at Boston Garden in Boston, Massachusetts. It was the seventh Survivor Series event held by the WWF.

[[Robert W. Wilson (philanthropist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2013 deaths, People who committed suicide, American philanthropists, American LGBT people, Gay men, Businesspeople from Detroit, Michigan

Robert Warne Wilson (November 3, 1926 – December 23, 2013) was an American hedge fund manager and philanthropist. He founded Wilson & Associates in 1969 after years of working as a securities analyst. He retired in 1986.  By 2000 he was worth an estimated US$800 million dollars.

Wilson was born in Detroit, Michigan. He also collected fine art. Wilson was openly gay.

Wilson gave away over $400 million (according to some more than $500 million) to environmental and preservation organizations. These included the Nature Conservancy and the World Monuments Fund.

Wilson died at the age of 87. He jumped from the 16th floor of his apartment in Manhattan, New York. He had suffered a stroke in the month of June, before his suicide.

[[Junction City, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Kansas, Cities in Kansas

Junction City is a city in the state of Kansas, in the United States. It is the  county seat of Geary County.

[[Manhattan, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Kansas, Cities in Pottawatomie County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Manhattan is a city in the state of Kansas in the United States. It is at the junction of the Kansas River and Big Blue River. It is the county seat of Riley County. The city extends into Pottawatomie County. In 2010, 52,281 people lived there. It is sometimes confused with Manhattan, New York.

The city was created by settlers from the New England Emigrant Aid Company. They created it as a Free-State town in the 1850s. This was during the Bleeding Kansas era. It is nicknamed "The Little Apple" as a play on New York City's "Big Apple". Manhattan is best known as where Kansas State University is. It is a college town.

Fort Riley, a United States Army base, is 8 west of Manhattan.

[[Schaumburg, Illinois]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Illinois, Suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, Settlements in Cook County, Illinois, Settlements in DuPage County, Illinois

Schaumburg is a large village in Cook County in northeastern Illinois, United States. The village is a northwestern suburb of Chicago. It is north-west of the O'Hare International Airport.

[[Danny Kaye]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1987 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, American dancers, Actors from New York City, Singers from New York City, Musicians from New York City, Comedians from New York City

Danny Kaye (born David Daniel Kaminsky; January 18, 1911 – March 3, 1987) was an American actor, singer, dancer and comedian. He hosted his own television show, The Danny Kaye Show. He has also starred in many movies.

Kaye died in Los Angeles, California from heart failure. He was aged 76.

[[Dean Jagger]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, 1903 births, 1991 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American radio actors, Actors from Ohio

Ira Dean Jagger (November 7, 1903 – February 5, 1991) was an American movie actor. His career lasted for nearly 60 years. He received an Academy Award for his role in Henry King's Twelve O'Clock High (1949).

Jagger was born in Columbus Grove, Ohio. He died from heart disease in Santa Monica, California. He was 87. He was buried in the small town of Hughson, California, at Lakewood Memorial Park.

[[Hanson (band)]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s American music groups, 1992 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Oklahoma, 2000s American music groups, 2010s American music groups, American boy bands, American pop rock bands, Musical groups established in 1992, Musical groups from Oklahoma, Musical trios, Tulsa, Oklahoma

Hanson is an American pop rock band from Tulsa, Oklahoma. The band was formed in 1992 by brothers Isaac, Taylor and Zac Hanson. They are best known for their 1997 number one single "MMMBop". The song was nominated for two Grammys at the 1998 Grammy Awards. They started their own record label 3CG Records in October 2003.

[[NHL 14]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 video games, Electronic Arts video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Sports video games

NHL 14 is an ice hockey video game. It was developed by EA Canada and published by EA Sports.

It was released on September 10, 2013 in North America, September 12, 2013 in Australasia, and on September 13, 2013 in Europe. The game was the 23rd in the NHL video game series and is the sequel to NHL 13. New Jersey Devils goaltender Martin Brodeur is shown on the cover of the game. This is the first time since NHL 97 that a goaltender has been featured on the cover.

[[NHL 13]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 video games, Electronic Arts video games, PlayStation 3 games, Xbox 360 games, Sports video games

NHL 13 is an ice hockey video game. It was developed by EA Canada and published by EA Sports.

It was released on September 11, 2012 in North America, September 13, 2012 in Australasia, and on September 14, 2012 in Europe. The game was the 22nd in the NHL video game series and is the sequel to NHL 12. Philadelphia Flyers forward Claude Giroux is featured on the cover of the game.

For the first time in the series, there were two playable female characters, Hayley Wickenheiser and Angela Ruggiero that were added.

[[Feliciano Canaverys Denis]]

CATEGORIES: 1813 births, 1840 deaths, Argentine military people, Executed people, People from Buenos Aires

Feliciano Canaverys (8 June 1813 - 1840) was an Argentine military officer.  

He was born in Buenos Aires. He was the son of José Canaverys and Agustina Denis. In 1830 he graduated as a Second Lieutenant of artillery. In 1940 Canaverys was suspected of belonging to the Unitarian Party. He was discharged from the army, and the government quickly ordered his detention. Feliciano decided to escape to Uruguay and enlist in the army of General Juan Lavalle. He traveled to Tacuarembó, but was ambushed by federales troops. After being arrested, General Manuel Oribe ordered that Feliciano be executed.

The Denis family were among the first Irish settlers in Buenos Aires. They arrived to the Río de la Plata in the 17th century.

[[Juan de Canaveris]]

CATEGORIES: 1748 births, 1822 deaths, People from Buenos Aires, People from Piedmont

Juan Canaveris (1748–1822) was an Italian notary. He worked for the viceroyalty of Río de la Plata in the 1700s.

[[Lauren Potter]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, 1990 births, Living people, Actors from Riverside County, California

Lauren Elizabeth Potter (born May 10, 1990) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Becky Jackson on the television show Glee.

She grew up in Southern California's Inland Empire. She has Down syndrome.

[[Elvira Quintillá]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors, Spanish stage actors, People from Barcelona

Elvira Quintillá (19 September 1928 – 27 December 2013) was a Spanish actress. Her career has lasted for nearly 60 years.

Quintillá was born in Barcelona. Her career began in 1941. In 1947, she married José María Rodero. They were married until Rodero's death in May 1991.

Quintillá died at the age of 85, in Madrid. She died from a heart attack.

[[Sinforoso Amoedo Canaveri]]

CATEGORIES: 1823 births, 1871 deaths, People from Buenos Aires, Physicians

Sinforoso Amoedo (18 July 1823 - 1871) was an Argentine medical doctor.

He was born in Buenos Aires. He was the son of Hilario Amoedo Garazatúa and Juana Josefa Canaveris. He began his high school studies at the Colegio Republicano. He studied medicine at the University of Buenos Aires, where he received his Doctor of Medicine. He practiced in the Parroquia de la Concepción until his retirement. He was replaced by Dr. Juan Antonio Argerich.

He worked with patients during the yellow fever epidemic that hit the city of Buenos Aires. He died of yellow fever himself in 1871. His family was honored with a medal for his courage and heroism to fight against the epidemic. 

[[Patricia Robins]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2016 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Writers from Sussex

Patricia Robins (1 February 1921 – 4 December 2016) was an English romance novelist. She was also known as Claire Lorrimer. She also served as Women's Auxiliary Air Force officer during World War II tracking Nazi bombers.

Her mother was Denise Robins, the popular romance novelist. Her maternal grandmother was the also writer K. C. Groom. Her maternal grandfather was Herman Klein, a musician.

Robins was born in Hove, Sussex, England. She died at her home in rural Kent, England from complication of a fall on 3 December 2016, aged 95.

[[Nigersaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Diplodocids

Nigersaurus (meaning "Niger reptile") is a genus of Diplodocus-like sauropod dinosaur. It lived in the middle of the Cretaceous period in what is now the Republic of Niger. Fossils of this dinosaur were first described in 1976, but it was only named in 1999 after more complete remains were found and described.

Its skull was very different from Diplodocus, suggesting a different feeding method. It had many fenestrae (openings) and thin bones. It had a wide muzzle filled with more than 500 teeth. They were replaced often: about every 14 days the whole set were replaced together. The jaws may have had a keratinous sheath, something like a wide beak. Its jaws were wider than the skull, and its teeth were placed far to the front.

Nigersaurus was 9 long, which is small for a sauropod, and had a short neck. It weighed around 4 tonnes, comparable to a modern elephant. Its skeleton was filled with air sacs, which lightened the weight. Its limbs were robustly built.

Nigersaurus was probably a browser, and fed with its head close to the ground. The region of its brain that detected smell was small, although its brain size was comparable to that of other dinosaurs. There has been debate on whether its head was habitually held downwards, or horizontally like other sauropods. It lived in a riparian habitat (near rivers). Its diet probably consisted of soft plants, such as ferns, horsetails, and angiosperms. It is one of the most common fossil vertebrates found in the area, and shared its habitat with other large herbivores, as well as large theropods and crocodylomorphs.

[[Independent Democratic Union]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Chile, Political parties in South America, Conservative parties, 1983 establishments, 1980s establishments in Chile

The Independent Democratic Union (Unión Demócrata Independiente, UDI) is a political party in Chile. Its politics are considered to be right wing. The party was founded on 1983 by Jaime Guzmán during the government of Augusto Pinochet.

[[Pussy Riot]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s music groups, 2011 establishments in Asia, 21st century establishments in Russia, Feminists, Moscow, Musical groups established in 2011, Political activists, Punk bands, Russian musical groups

Pussy Riot is a Russian feminist punk rock protest group of eleven women. 

The group was formed in August 2011 in Moscow. Three members of the group (Yekaterina Samutsevich, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, and Maria Alyokhina) were put in prison for a protest they did at a cathedral in Moscow against Vladimir Putin. Yekaterina Samutsevich was let out of prison in September 2012 after her appeal succeeded. 

There were protests around the world by people who thought that it was wrong for Pussy Riot members to be put in prison. Lots of famous people said that they should be released including Madonna. On December 23, 2013, Tolokonnikova and Alyokhina were let out. Other members declared that Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina could not be Pussy Riot members because they showed their faces on US television. 

[[Division of Mitchell]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1949 establishments in Australia

The Division of Mitchell is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It is named after Major Thomas Mitchell, surveyor and explorer who was the first European to explore large areas of New South Wales and Victoria. It was set up in 1949.

The division covers the north-west suburbs of Sydney. It includes Baulkham Hills, Beaumont Hills, Bella Vista, Box Hill, Kellyville, Nelson and Winston Hills. It also includes parts of Castle Hill, North Rocks, Northmead, Maraylya, Rouse Hill and West Pennant Hills. 

After the 2013 federal election, Mitchell became the safest Liberal seat in metropolitan Australia. The ALP would need a 22% swing to win it.

[[Neon tetra]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts, Freshwater fish, Aquarium fish

The neon tetra (Paracheirodon innesi) is a freshwater fish. Neon tetras are native to South America and mainly in the Amazon. In captivity they grow to about 2.2 cm.

[[Loss function]]

CATEGORIES: Functions and mappings

In mathematics a loss function or cost function is a mathematical function that maps an event, or the values of one or more variables onto a real number. This number is then given a semantic value, such as cost  or utility. Optimisation can then be used to find the value where the function is minimal, or at one of its maxima.

[[Kia Combi]]

CATEGORIES: Kia automobiles, Buses

The Kia Combi was a series of minibuses built by Asia Motors and Kia Motors from 1983 to Present. Kia Motors has owned Asia Motors since 1976.

[[Jefferson's Birthday]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, Presidential birthdays in the United States

Jefferson's Birthday is a holiday in the United States. It celebrates the birth of Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States. It is celebrated every April 13.

[[Mozzarella sticks]]

CATEGORIES: American food, Cheese dishes

Mozzarella sticks are pieces of battered or breaded mozzarella. It is a deep fried food. In the United States, it is often served in restaurants as an appetizer and as food served in pubs. It is shaped like a stick.

Mozzarella sticks are often served with tomato or marinara sauce. They may also be served with plum sauce, jalapeño jelly, barbecue sauce, honey mustard sauce, and ranch dressing. Other types of cheese may be fried, such as provolone, cheddar, and American.

[[Cardinal tetra]]

CATEGORIES: Ray-finned fish, Freshwater fish, Aquarium fish

The cardinal tetra (Paracheirodon axelrodi) is a freshwater fish. 

[[Frankie Goes to Hollywood]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 1980, 1980 establishments in England, 1980s British music groups, Musical groups disestablished in 1987, 1987 disestablishments in Europe, 1980s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 2000s British music groups, Musical groups established in 2004, 2004 establishments in England, Musical groups disestablished in 2007, 2007 disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 2000s disestablishments in England, English pop music groups, Musical groups from Liverpool, New wave bands

Frankie Goes to Hollywood were a British dance band from Liverpool, England. The band is probably best known for their first single "Relax". This BBC banned the song.

The band released their first studio album Welcome to the Pleasuredome on 29 October 1984. The album featured the singles "Relax", "Two Tribes", "The Power of Love" and "Welcome to the Pleasuredome". Their second and last studio album Liverpool was released on 20 October 1986. The band broke up in 1987. They reunited in 2004, but broke up again in 2007.

[[Nottoway Plantation]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana, Plantations in the United States, 1859 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Louisiana

Nottoway Plantation is a plantation house in a town called White Castle in the state of Louisiana. In 1980 it was added to the National Register of Historic Places. John Hampden Randolph bought the area and then built the house in 1859. He owned 155 African-Americans as slaves. They worked in the sugarcane fields. After Mr. Randolph’s death Mrs. Randolph sold the plantation in 1889 for $50,000. Nottoway There are 165 doors and 200 windows. This makes 365 openings. Plantation has a museum.

[[Claude Vilgrain]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, American Hockey League players, Canadian ice hockey right wingers, Haitian people, Ice hockey people from Quebec, International Hockey League (1945–2001) players, Laval Voisins players, Living people, New Jersey Devils players, Philadelphia Flyers players, Vancouver Canucks players

Claude Vilgrain (born April 17, 1979) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played a total of 89 games in the National Hockey League (NHL). Vilgrain was born in Haiti. He is the first Haitian-born player in NHL history.

[[Joyce Carol Thomas]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2016 deaths, Writers from Oklahoma, Children's writers, African American writers, American poets

Joyce Carol Thomas (born May 25, 1938 - died August 13, 2016) was an African-American poet, playwright, motivational speaker, and author of more than 30 children's books. 

Thomas was born in Ponca City, Oklahoma, the fifth of nine children in a family of cotton pickers. In 1948 the family moved to Tracy, California, to pick vegetables. She learned Spanish from Mexican migrant workers and earned a B.A. in Spanish from San Jose State University. She took night classes in education at Stanford University, while raising four children, and received a master's degree in 1967.

For her 1982 novel Marked by Fire, Thomas won a National Book Award for Young People's Literature|National Book Award in category Children's Fiction (paperback)

and an American Book Award.

Thomas has been one of three to five finalists for the Coretta Scott King Award three times, in 1984 for Bright Shadow, in 1994 for Brown Honey in Broomwheat Tea, and in 2009 for The Blacker the Berry in 2009. Part of the American Library Association program, every year the King Award honors the "most distinguished portrayal of African American experience in literature for children or teens".

She also received a New York Times Outstanding Book of the Year Award and an Outstanding Woman of the 20th Century Award.

She lived in Berkeley, California.

[[Procyon]]

CATEGORIES: Binary stars

Procyon (α CMi, α Canis Minoris, Alpha Canis Minoris) is the brightest star in the constellation Canis Minor. To the naked eye, it appears to be a single star, the eighth brightest in the night sky with a visual apparent magnitude of 0.34.

It is actually a binary star system of a white main-sequence star of spectral type F5 IV–V, named Procyon A, and a faint white dwarf companion of spectral type DQZ, named Procyon B.

The reason for its brightness is not its intrinsic luminosity but its relative closeness to the Sun. Its distance was worked out by the European Space Agency Hipparcos astrometry satellite. It is just 11.46 away, and is one of our nearest stellar neighbours. Its closest neighbour is Luyten's Star, about 1.12 away.

Procyon forms one of the three vertices of the Winter Triangle, along with Sirius and Betelgeuse. Its colour index is 0.42, and its hue has been described as having a faint yellow tinge to it.

[[Lovesexy]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 albums, Funk albums, Prince (musician), R&B albums

Lovesexy is the tenth studio album by Prince. It was released on May 10, 1988. Three singles were released from the album. In July 1988 Prince started the Lovesexy Tour to promote the album. Prince is naked on the cover of the album. Some stores would not sell the album because of this and if they did they would cover it up in a black sleeve. The album went straight to number one in the UK.

[[Randy Jackson (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, African American musicians, Living people, Jackson family, Musicians from Indiana, People from Gary, Indiana

Steven Randall "Randy" Jackson (born October 29, 1961) is an American musician. He is a member of The Jacksons. He was born to Joe and Katherine Jackson at St Mary's Mercy Hospital in Gary, Indiana. He was three when The Jacksons started. As he was so young, he was not a member when they formed. In 1971 he performed live with his brothers for the first time. He did not become a member of the group until the mid seventies. His first album with The Jacksons, The Jacksons, was released in 1976. The Jacksons released five more studio albums with Randy as a member. The band have sold 150 million records.

[[Dwarf star]]

CATEGORIES: Types of stars

Dwarf stars refers to several types of star. The term was originally used in 1906 by the Danish astronomer Ejnar Hertzsprung. He noticed that the reddest stars—classified as K and M in the Harvard scheme—could be divided into two distinct groups. They are either much brighter than the Sun, or much fainter. To distinguish these groups, he called them "giant" and "dwarf" stars.  The dwarf stars were fainter and the giants brighter than the sun.

However, the term "dwarf" was later expanded to include:

[[Chiwetel Ejiofor]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Living people, Actors from London, Black British actors, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors

Chiwetelu Umeadi "Chiwetel" Ejiofor OBE (born 10 July 1977) is a British actor. He played Solomon Northup in the 2013 movie 12 Years a Slave. He was nominated for the award for Best Actor in a Motion Picture, Drama at the 2014 Golden Globe Awards for his acting in the movie. His first movie role was in the 1996 movie Voyage. In 2008, Ejiofor was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire. Ejiofor played the band leader Louis Lester in the TV series Dancing on the Edge. It had six episodes.

In 2019, he starred as Scar in the 2019 live-action remake The Lion King.

[[Look Who's Talking]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 movies, Pregnancy movies, American independent movies

Look Who's Talking is a 1989 romantic comedy movie. The main characters in the movie are played by John Travolta, Kirstie Alley, and Bruce Willis. The movie had two sequels: Look Who's Talking Too (1990) and Look Who's Talking Now (1993).

[[The Shangri-Las]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 establishments in the United States, American girl groups, Musical groups established in 1963

The Shangri-Las were an American pop girl group of the 1960s. They released their first album Leader of the Pack in 1965. Their 1964 single "Leader of the Pack" was number one in the United States.

The members of the group were sisters Betty and Mary Weiss, with twins, Margie and Mary-Ann Ganser.

Their first hit recording was "Remember (Walking In The Sand)" (1964) which reached number 5 in the US and number 14 in the UK.

[[Peppered corydoras]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts, Aquarium fish, Freshwater fish

The peppered corydoras (Corydoras paleatus) is a species of freshwater catfish in the genus Corydoras. 

[[Zebrafish]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts, Freshwater fish, Aquarium fish

The zebra danio (Danio rerio) or zebrafish is a freshwater fish native to India.                                         

[[Chicken and waffles]]

CATEGORIES: American food, Chicken as food

Chicken and waffles is a dish that has both chicken and waffles. It is popular in the United States, where it is served in many restaurants. There are two types of chicken and waffles dishes: the soul food version and the Pennsylvania Dutch version.

[[Sheryl Sandberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Businesspeople from California, American feminists, American Jews, Jewish feminists

Sheryl Kara Sandberg (born August 28, 1969) is an American businesswoman. She is the chief operating officer of Facebook.

[[Egocentrism]]

CATEGORIES: Psychology

Egocentrism is a state of mind of putting oneself in the center of interest, of being interested more about oneself than about other people. While this is normal in young children, it becomes more and more of a problem, in older children, adolescents and adults. To egocentric people, self-relevant information is seen as more important in shaping one’s judgments than are thoughts about others and other-relevant information. The term egocentrism was mostly coined by Piaget, a psychologist. Egocentrism is different from both egoism and narcissism. Young children are egocentric: they see themselves as the "center" of the world. Developing self-conscience requires the perception that there are others, that there is socialistion with other people, and that there are differences between oneself and other people. Egocentric people are often unable to fully understand or to cope with other people's opinions. The fact that reality can be different from what they are ready to accept is difficult for them.  

[[Eric Young]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, Canadian professional wrestlers, Former WWE wrestlers, Sportspeople from Ontario, TNA wrestlers

Jeremy Fritz (born December 15, 1979) is a Canadian professional wrestler. He currently works for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling under the ring name, Eric Young (2004-2016). He is a one-time TNA World Heavyweight Champion. 

In TNA, Fritz is known for portraying many different comic relief gimmicks. During his time in TNA, he has won the X Division Championship once, Legends/Global/Television Championship twice, and the World Tag Team Championship five times. He also became the only man to co-hold the TNA Knockouts Tag Team Championship when he won the title with ODB.

Outside of wrestling, Fritz hosts Off the Hook: Extreme Catches on Animal Planet.

[[Illmatic]]

CATEGORIES: Hip hop albums, 1994 albums

Illmatic is the first studio album of American rapper Nas. It was released on April 19, 1994 by Columbia Records. Nas recorded the album during 1992 and 1993 in New York City. The producers were Nas, Large Professor, Pete Rock, Q-Tip, L.E.S., and DJ Premier.

Nas raps about his life in Queensbridge, New York. Nas's lyricism features multi-syllabic internal rhyme patterns.

Illmatic received very good reviews from most music critics  upon its release. It earnt praise for its lyrical content, production, and Nas's lyricism. Over time, music critics have recognized it as one of the greatest hip hop albums.

Illmatic did not sell very well at the beginning. On January 17, 1996, the album was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America. In 2001, it earned platinum certification after shipments of one million copies in the United States.

[[Armillaria solidipes]]

CATEGORIES: Fungi

Armillaria solidipes is a species of fungus. It is also known as the honey mushroom. It grows in the United States. In the Malheur National Forest in Oregon there is one that is the world's biggest living organism.

[[Reflektor]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums

Reflektor is the fourth album by Arcade Fire. It was released on October 28, 2013. The album has two discs. The first disc has seven songs. The second disc has six songs. It got good reviews from music critics. Pitchfork gave it a score of 9.2 out of 10. The first single from the album, "Reflektor", was released on September 9, 2013. The album was number one in several countries including the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.

[[Iona]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Scotland

Iona (Ì Chaluim Chille) is a small island in the Inner Hebrides off the western coast of Scotland. When Columba arrived with twelve monks in 563 he founded a great monastery. From that time Iona was known as a holy place. It was the center of Scottish Christianity for many centuries. Today it is a popular tourist attraction and a place for retreats. Its modern Gaelic name means "Iona of (Saint) Columba" (formerly anglicised "Icolmkill").

[[Division of New England]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1901 establishments in Australia

The Division of New England is an Australian electoral division in New South Wales. It is in the north-east of the state, next to the border with Queensland. It was set up for the first federal election in 1901. It is named after the New England region of northern New South Wales.

The includes the towns of Armidale, Ashford, Barraba, Bingara, Bundarra, Glen Innes, Gunnedah, Guyra, Inverell, Manilla, Quirindi,  Tamworth, Uralla, Werris Creek, Walcha and Tenterfield. 

[[Charlemagne Prize]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 establishments in Europe, Awards, Aachen, 1950s establishments in Germany

The Charlemagne Prize (Karlspreis) is a famous prize awarded each year. The prize has been awarded since 1950 by the German city of Aachen. It is awarded to persons who have done outstanding work towards the unification of Europe. The award is named after Charlemagne, emperor of the Frankish Empire, and founder of what became the Holy Roman Empire. Charlemagne lived and was buried in Aachen.

[[Luke Baldwin]]

CATEGORIES: English rugby union players, Sportspeople from Kent, 1990 births, Living people

Luke Baldwin (born 15 September 1990) is an English rugby union player. He was born in Royal Tunbridge Wells. He plays for Bristol Rugby in the RFU Championship.

[[Westerlund 2]]

CATEGORIES: Super star clusters

Westerlund 2  is a massive young super star cluster. It is about one or two million years old, and partly obscured with gas. It contains some of the hottest, brightest, and most massive stars known. The cluster is 20,000 light years away in the Milky Way galaxy.

The cluster contains a dozen of O-type main sequence stars, of which at least three are eclipsing binaries. There are many very young pre-main sequence stars and two Wolf–Rayet stars.

The core of the cluster contains several examples of rare very hot stars.  Just outside the cluster a massive eclipsing binary WR20a is found at 30 arcseconds (about 1.1 pc in projection), the bright yellow spot just on the lower right side of the cluster center.

As its name indicates, the Westerlund 2 cluster was discovered by Bengt Westerlund in the sixties, but its stellar content was assessed only in later years. 

[[Sonny Chiba]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2021 deaths, Japanese movie actors, Japanese television actors, Japanese stage actors, Japanese voice actors, Singers from Fukuoka Prefecture, Actors from Fukuoka Prefecture, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Japan, Deaths from pneumonia

Shinichi Chiba, also known as Sonny Chiba, was a Japanese actor, singer, movie producer and director, and martial artist. He was from Fukuoka, Kyūshū. He was possibly the most famous Japanese movie actor of all time.

Chiba died on 19 August 2021 at a hospital in Kimitsu, Japan from pneumonia caused by COVID-19, aged 82.

[[Eve (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, African American actors, African American musicians, American rap musicians, Grammy Award winners, Living people

Eve Jihan Jeffers (born November 10, 1978), better known as Eve, is an American rapper, songwriter, and actress. She was the first winner of the Grammy Award for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration in 2002 for the song "Let Me Blow Ya Mind", with Gwen Stefani. In 2002 her album Scorpion was also nominated for Best Rap Album. 

[[Frederick McCubbin]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 births, 1917 deaths, Australian painters

Frederick McCubbin (25 February 1855 – 20 December 1917) was an Australian painter. He was a part of the Heidelberg School, which was an important period in the history of Australia's visual arts.

McCubbin was born in Melbourne. McCubbin was taught at William Willmett's West Melbourne Common School and St Paul's School, Swanston Street. He worked several jobs while studying art at the National Gallery of Victoria's School of Design. There he met Tom Roberts and studied under Eugene von Guerard. He also studied at the Victorian Academy of the Arts. He showed some of his early paintings there in 1876, and again from 1879 to 1882. He sold his first painting there in 1880.

By the early 1880s, McCubbin's work had become famous. His paintings won several prizes from the National Gallery. By the mid-1880s his painting became focused on the Australian bush. This is the work for which he is remembered.

In 1888, McCubbin became instructor and master of the School of Design at the National Gallery. He taught several students who themselves became notable Australian artists.

He married Annie Moriarty in March 1889. They had seven children. McCubbin lived most of his life in Melbourne, and rarely travelled. He and his family moved to Mount Macedon in 1901. McCubbin continued to paint through the first two decades of the 20th century. By the beginning of World War I, his health began to fail. He died in 1917 from a heart attack.

[[Joan Miró]]

CATEGORIES: 1893 births, 1983 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Spain, People from Barcelona, Spanish painters, Spanish sculptors

Joan Miró (20 April 1893  25 December 1983) was a Spanish painter, sculptor and ceramicist. He was born in Barcelona. He died of heart disease in Palma, Majorca. A museum dedicated to his work, the Fundación Joan Miró, was opened in Barcelona in 1975.

Joan Miró started painting when he was fourteen he attended an art school. He then started to develop his own style to draw scenes of trees and landscapes. In around the 1930s Joan started to make rapid changes to his style of painting. Influenced by Pablo Picasso, Miro developed more surrealist works. 

Miró was a significant influence on late 20th-century art, in particular the American abstract expressionist artists. 

[[Flora Robson]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1984 deaths, English stage actors, English movie actors, Alumni of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, English television actors

Dame Flora McKenzie Robson DBE (28 March 1902 – 7 July 1984) was an English stage and movie actress. She was known for her performances in plays demanding dramatic and emotional intensity. Her roles varied from queens to villainesses.

[[Erskine Caldwell]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1987 deaths, Writers from Georgia (U.S. state), Writers from Oregon, People from Ashland, Oregon

Erskine Caldwell (17 December 1903 – 11 April 1987) was an American writer. He wrote about poverty, racism and social problems in the Southern United States. He did this in novels such as Tobacco Road and God's Little Acre. This work was praised by critics. It also made him controversial among fellow Southerners because they felt he was making them look bad.

[[Neopilina]]

CATEGORIES: Molluscs

Neopilina is a mollusc, the only surviving genus of monoplacophora.

Some molecular results show that they fall within the polyplacophora clade, although these have been called into question.  Fossil and morphological data show that they are rather derived and bear very little resemblance to an 'ancestral mollusc'.

The monoplacophora were well-known as a fossil group from the Cambrian to the Devonian. They were thought to be long extinct. One species was dredged up from the Pacific Ocean off Mexico in 1952. It was found to be a Monoplacophoran, and given the genus of Neopilina.  This was one of the most remarkable modern discoveries of a 'living fossil', and a Lazarus taxon.

[[The Showgrounds]]

CATEGORIES: Football stadiums in Northern Ireland, County Down

The Showgrounds is a football ground in Newry, County Down, Northern Ireland. It is the home football ground of Newry City A.F.C.. The ground usually holds 7,949 people. However, it only holds 2,275 at the moment under health and safety law.

[[Aethelthryth]]

CATEGORIES: 630s births, 679 deaths, Christian saints, Princes and princesses, Kings and queens, Anglo-Saxons

Aethelthryth or Etheldreda  (about 636 AD– June 23, 679 AD) was an Anglo-Saxon saint.  She was also an  East Anglian princess and Abbess of Ely.

[[NGC 1569]]

CATEGORIES: Dwarf galaxies

NGC 1569 is a dwarf irregular galaxy in Camelopardalis.  This faint galaxy is well studied by professional astronomers, who are interested in the history of star formation in the galaxy. The galaxy is relatively nearby, so the Hubble Space Telescope can easily pick out its stars. In 2008 scientists studying images from Hubble calculated the galaxy's distance at nearly 11 million light-years away, making it a member of the IC 342 group of galaxies.

[[Kenneth J. Alford]]

CATEGORIES: 1881 births, 1945 deaths, English composers

Frederick Joseph Ricketts (21 February 1881 – 15 May 1945) was a British composer of marches for band. He wrote music under the pen name Kenneth J. Alford. He was a Bandmaster in the British Army, and Royal Marines Director of Music. Conductor Sir Vivian Dunn called him "The British March King." Ricketts frequently used the saxophone in his music. This led to the instrument being used in all military bands.

[[Yordy Reyna]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Peruvian footballers, FC Red Bull Salzburg players

Yordy Reyna (born 17 September 1993) is a football player from Peru. He plays as a striker for Red Bull Salzburg, in the Austrian Bundesliga.

[[Halton Arp]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from stroke, American astronomers, Scientists from New York City

Halton Christian "Chip" Arp  (March 21, 1927 – December 28, 2013) was an American astronomer. He was known for his Atlas of Peculiar Galaxies, published in 1966. Arp was also known as a critic of the Big Bang theory and for helping a non-standard cosmology to create an intrinsic redshift.February 2014

Arp was born on March 21, 1927 in New York City. He studied at the California Institute of Technology. Arp was married three times. He had four daughters.

Arp died on December 28, 2013 in Munich. He died from a stroke, and he was aged 86.

[[Wojciech Kilar]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from brain cancer, Disease-related deaths in Poland, Polish composers

Wojciech Kilar (17 July 1932 – 29 December 2013) was a Polish classical and movie composer. He was known for his composing in Bram Stoker's Dracula and The Pianist. He received many awards throughout his fifty years of composing.

Kilar was born on 17 July 1932 in Lwów, Poland (present-day Lviv, Ukraine). He studied at State Higher School of Music and at State Higher School of Music. 

Kilar married Barbara Pomianowska in April 1966. They had no children. Their marriage lasted for almost over forty years. Pomianowska died in November 2007. 

Kilar composed many movie compositions. He composed the trailer music for Schindler's List. He also composed the music for Promised Land and for Dracula. He composed his musical works during a festival for Pope John Paul II.

In 1991 Polish filmmaker Krzysztof Zanussi made a movie about his life titled Wojciech Kilar.

Kilar, who was suffering from brain cancer during his final years, from which he died on 29 December 2013 in Katowice, Poland at the age of 81.

[[Mary Wibberley]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2013 deaths, English writers

Mary Wibberley (1934 – 29 December 2013) was an English romantic fiction writer. She wrote over 48 romance novels. Her first novel, Black Niall, was published in 1973. 

Wibberley died after a short illness on 29 December 2013. She was aged 79.

[[Eero Mäntyranta]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2013 deaths, 1960 Winter Olympics, 1964 Winter Olympics, 1968 Winter Olympics, 1972 Winter Olympics, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Finnish Olympic bronze medalists, Finnish Olympic silver medalists, Olympic gold medalists, Skiers, Skiing in Finland

Eero Antero Mäntyranta (20 November 1937 – 30 December 2013) was a Finnish skier. He has won several medals and the Winter Olympic Games.

Mäntyranta was born in Pello, Finland.

He competed in four Winter Olympics from 1960 to 1972. He won seven medals at the first three of them. This makes him one of the most successful skiers in Finland. His success at the 1964 Winter Olympics earned him the nickname "Mister Seefeld". The Finnish Ministry of Education honored him with the Pro Urheilu letter of recognition in 2000. There is a museum called Mäntyranta in Pello.

Mäntyranta died on 30 December 2013 from a heart attack. He died in Pello, aged 74.

[[Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, American writers, Year of birth missing (living people)

Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni is an Indian-American author and poet. She writes for both adults and children. In 1991 her first collection of poems, Black Candle, was published. In 1995 she won the American Book Award for Arranged Marriage: Stories. Her 1997 novel Mistress of Spices was made into a movie.

[[Junot Díaz]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, American writers, Living people

Junot Díaz (born December 31, 1968) is a Dominican-American writer. His first novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao was published in September 2007. In 2008 it won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction. It also won the John Sargent Sr. First Novel Prize. His next novel has not been published yet. It is called Monstro.

[[Saul Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, African American musicians, Living people, Musicians from New York, Queer people

Saul Stacey Williams (born February 29, 1972) is an American singer, poet, and actor. He played the main character in the 1998 movie Slam.

[[Fernando Luján]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from respiratory failure, Colombian entertainers, Mexican movie actors, Mexican television actors, Mexican stage actors, People from Oaxaca, People from Bogotá, Actors from Mexico City

Fernando Luján (born Fernando Ciangherotti Díaz; August 23, 1939 – January 11, 2019) was a Colombian-born Mexican movie and television actor. He was known for his many roles on telenovelas. His career began in 1952 and appeared in over 50 movies and hundreds of television shows. He starred as Leonardo's father in Overboard (2018).

Luján was born on August 23, 1939 in Bogotá. He died from respiratory failure on January 11, 2019 in Puerto Escondido, Oaxaca at the age of 79.

[[Andrew Jacobs, Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2013 deaths, American Roman Catholics, Deaths from natural causes, Politicians from Indianapolis, Indiana, United States representatives from Indiana, US Democratic Party politicians

Andrew "Andy" Jacobs, Jr. (February 24, 1932 – December 28, 2013) was an American lawyer and politician. Jacobs was in the United States House of Representatives for 30 years.

His father, Andrew Jacobs, was also a congressman for one term. He once was married to Martha Keys of Kansas, whom he was in the House with for a time. In 1988, Jacobs married Kimberly Hood Jacobs, an Emmy Award-winning television reporter.

Jacobs died on December 28, 2013 at his home in Indianapolis, Indiana. He died from natural causes, aged 81.

[[Columbia Railroad Bridge]]

CATEGORIES: 1834 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Pennsylvania, 1886 establishments in the United States, 1880s establishments in Pennsylvania, 1920 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Pennsylvania, Bridges in the United States, Buildings and structures in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Transport in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

The Columbia Railroad Bridge, which is also called the Columbia Bridge, is a bridge in the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is run by the CSX Transportation train company, who uses the bridge to transport goods in the Trenton Subdivision area.  The bridge goes over the Schuylkill River. It is in a park called Fairmont Park. 

[[Joseph Ruskin]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Massachusetts

Joseph Ruskin (born Joseph Schlafman; April 14, 1924 – December 28, 2013) was an American character actor. He appeared in over 100 movies during his 50-year career. He appeared in Get Smart, Star Trek, Alias, and in The Twilight Zone.

Ruskin died on December 28, 2013 at a hospital in Santa Monica, California. He died from natural causes, aged 89.

[[Michael McDonald (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, Living people, American singer-songwriters, Singers from St. Louis, Missouri, Grammy Award winners

Michael McDonald (born February 12, 1952) is an American singer and songwriter. He is known for a soulful baritone singing style. He began his career singing back-up vocals with Steely Dan. He became a member of The Doobie Brothers from 1976 to 1982. This period which resulted in several successful songs for the band. He has won five Grammy Awards.

McDonald was born in St. Louis, Missouri.

[[The Wyatt Family]]

CATEGORIES: WWE teams and stables

The Wyatt Family is a professional wrestling stable that currently competes in the WWE. The members of the stable are Bray Wyatt (the leader), Erick Rowan, and Luke Harper.

The stable is portrayed as a backwoods cult with Bray Wyatt as their leader.

[[Dolores Huerta]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American activists, People from New Mexico

Dolores Clara Fernandez Huerta (born April 10, 1930) is a labor leader and civil rights activist. Huerta, along with César Chávez, founded the National Farmworkers Association. This later became the United Farm Workers (UFW). 

Huerta has received many awards for her community service and her support for workers', immigrants', and women's rights. These include the Eugene V. Debs Foundation Outstanding American Award, the United States Presidential Eleanor Roosevelt Award for Human Rights, and the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Huerta is a role model to many in the Latin community. She is the subject of many corridos (ballads) and paintings.

[[Ronald Reagan Day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, Presidential birthdays in the United States, California, Wisconsin, Illinois, Things named after Ronald Reagan

Ronald Reagan Day is a state holiday in California, Illinois and Wisconsin. It is celebrated on February 6 each year. The holiday is to remember the life of Ronald Reagan. All state government offices, community colleges, schools, and libraries are closed.

For the 100th anniversary of Reagan's birthday in 2011, governors in 21 states declared February 6 to be Ronald Reagan Day.

[[Mandela Day]]

CATEGORIES: Holidays, South Africa, Nelson Mandela

Nelson Mandela International Day (or Mandela Day) is an international holiday in honor of Nelson Mandela who has contributed for social justice, toleration against racist discrimination, world peace and conflict resolution. It is celebrated each year on 18 July (Mandela's birthday). The day was officially declared by the United Nations General Assembly in November 2009.

The first UN Mandela Day was held on 18 July 2010. However, other groups had celebrated Mandela Day the previous year, on 18 July 2009. This was Mandela's 91st birthday. A series of concerts art exhibitions, fundraising and educational events were held. They led up to a concert at Radio City Music Hall.

[[Nelson Mandela International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Nelson Mandela, Airports in Africa, Buildings and structures in Africa, Cape Verde, 2005 establishments, 2000s establishments in Africa

Praia International Airport RAI is an airport on Santiago Island in Cape Verde. It was opened in late 2005, replacing the old Francisco Mendes International Airport. 

It is about 3 kilometres northeast of central Praia in the southeastern part of Santiago Island. At the beginning of 2012, the airport was renamed after Nelson Mandela.

The first flight to the new airport was on October 23, 2005. Even though the airport serves the capital and largest city, Praia, Cape Verde's main international airport is Amílcar Cabral International Airport. This is on the smaller island of Sal.

[[Bolometric magnitude]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy, Measurement, Electromagnetic radiation

Bolometric magnitude is the total magnitude of all electromagnetic radiation of a star or other object. It is an extension of luminosity to include all kinds of radiation. 

[[Deaths in 2014]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 deaths, Index lists

The following is a list of notable deaths in 2014. For notable deaths for different months, please see "Months".

[[John Fortune]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from Bristol, Comedians from Bristol, Deaths from leukemia, English movie actors, English television actors, English television writers

John Fortune (30 June 1939 – 31 December 2013) was a British satirist, comedian, writer and actor. He was best known for his work with John Bird and Rory Bremner on the television series Bremner, Bird and Fortune. He studied at Bristol Cathedral School and King's College, Cambridge, where he met John Bird.

Fortune died from leukemia, at the age of 74.

[[OMG Girlz]]

CATEGORIES: 2009 establishments in the United States, American girl groups

The OMG Girlz is an American girl group. The group was started in 2009 in Atlanta by Tameka "Tiny" Cottle and Kiesha Miles, who were members of the girl group XScape. The members are Zonnique Pullins (Miss Star), Bahja Rodriguez (Miss Beauty), and Breaunna Womack (Miss Babydoll). Reginae, the daughter of Lil' Wayne, was a member until 2010. They are all African American teenagers. They have a quirky image. Their first single "Ain't Nobody" was released in 2010. In 2011 the band were signed to Grand Hustle Records. Their first album, Officially Miss Guided, has not been released yet.

[[Johnny Orr]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2013 deaths, Deaths from congestive heart failure, College basketball coaches, American basketball players, Sportspeople from Kansas, Sportspeople from Iowa, Sportspeople from Illinois, Sportspeople from Michigan

John M. "Johnny" Orr (June 10, 1927 – December 31, 2013) was an American basketball player and coach. He was best known for as the head coach of men's basketball at the University of Michigan and at Iowa State University. He remains the coach with most wins in Iowa State history, with 218 wins and 200 losses.

Orr died from congestive heart failure at the age of 86.

[[Kelly Carlson]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1976 births, Living people

Kelly Carlson (born February 17, 1976) is an American actress and model. She is best known for playing Kimber Henry in Nip/Tuck. She played a motorcycle gang member in 3000 Miles to Graceland.

[[Ballades (Chopin)]]

CATEGORIES: Compositions by Frédéric Chopin, Solo piano pieces

Frédéric Chopin's ballades are four one-movement pieces for solo piano. He composed them between 1835 and 1842. The four ballades are said to have been inspired by Polish poet Adam Mickiewicz. The exact inspiration for each individual ballade, however, is unclear and not agreed upon.

Ballades were composed before Chopin, in literature and Italian Renaissance music. But, Chopin invented the ballade as an abstract musical form. The ballade is a distinct form and cannot be placed into another form (e.g. sonata). After Chopin, other composers such as Franz Liszt and Johannes Brahms also wrote ballades.

The ballades are thought to be the best of Chopin's compositions and of romantic music.  The ballades are difficult for pianists to play, even after they learn the technical difficulty of the notes. There are still the creative expressions to be mastered. 

All four ballades are from 8 to 12 minutes in length. They are in triple time (three beats to a bar), or in 6/4 or 6/8 time. Each is an individual work and should not be played as a group in a concert. Even Chopin did not do this. He wanted listeners to find their own interpretation of the music. Each piece has its own poetry, drama and story.

Chopin's four ballades are very popular pieces and are often heard in concerts around the world. There have been many recordings made of the ballades by classical pianists.

[[China Anne McClain]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, African American actors, African American musicians, Living people, Actors from Atlanta, Georgia, American TikTokers

China Anne McClain (born August 25, 1998) is an American actress, singer, and songwriter. The first movie she acted in was The Gospel. It was released in 2005. Between 2006 and 2012 she played Jazmine Payne in Tyler Perry's House of Payne. 

[[Shrimp toast]]

CATEGORIES: Seafood dishes, Chinese food

Shrimp toast or prawn toast is a Chinese dim sum dish. It is small triangles of bread, brushed with egg and topped with chopped shrimp and water chestnuts. It is baked or deep fried. It is often served as an appetizer in Chinese restaurants in Australia and the United States. In some countries, such as the United Kingdom and Australia, sesame seeds are sometimes sprinkled on the dish before it is baked or deep fried.

[[Marian Anderson]]

CATEGORIES: 1897 births, 1993 deaths, African American musicians, Grammy Award winners

Marian Anderson (February 27, 1897 - April 8, 1993) was an American contralto singer. She was the first African American to sing at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York City.

[[Charles Edward Russell]]

CATEGORIES: 1860 births, 1941 deaths, American political activists, American progressives, Biographers, American journalists, Politicians from Iowa, American political writers, Pulitzer Prize winners, Social democrats

Charles Edward Russell (September 25, 1860 – April 23, 1941) was an American journalist and politician. He started the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People with people including W. E. B. Du Bois, Ida B. Wells, Archibald Grimké, Henry Moskowitz, Mary White Ovington, Oswald Garrison Villard, William English Walling (the last son of a former slave-holding family), and Florence Kelley in 1909. For the rest of his life Russell worked on the board of directors. Russell also wrote 27 books. In 1928 he won a Pulitzer Prize for The American Orchestra and Theodore Thomas. 

[[Dana Perino]]

CATEGORIES: White House Press Secretaries, Writers from Wyoming, American political commentators, Writers from Denver, Colorado, American journalists, 1972 births, Living people

Dana Marie Perino (born May 9, 1972) is an American journalist. She was the White House Press Secretary under President George W. Bush, from September 2007 to January 2009. She is currently a political commentator working for Fox News. She works for the program The Five.

Perino was born in Evanston, Wyoming. She was raised in Denver, Colorado.

[[Megyn Kelly]]

CATEGORIES: People from Syracuse, New York, American journalists, 1970 births, Living people

Megyn Marie Kelly (born November 18, 1970; previously called Megyn Kendall) is an American reporter on Fox News and NBC. She hosted The Kelly File. She previously hosted America Live on Fox News and Megyn Kelly Today on NBC. She also hosts the channel's New Year's Eve Special Live every December 31.

[[Phillis Wheatley]]

CATEGORIES: 1753 births, 1784 deaths, African American writers

Phillis Wheatley (May 8, 1753 – December 5, 1784) was a poet. She was the first African-American person to have a book published. She was born in West Africa. However it is not known which country she was born in. It was Senegal or The Gambia. She took work as a slave in the United States when she was about seven years old on a slave ship called The Phillis. Her master and his wife taught her how to read and write. Wheatley wrote her first published poem when she was 13. She wrote over 100 poems in her life and at least 30 had lost.Although she was an African slave, Phillis Wheatley was one of the best-known poets in America. In 1770 Wheatley wrote a poetic tribute to the evangelist George Whitefield. A lot of people said good things about the poem. In 1773 a collection of 39 poems Wheatley had written, Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral by Phillis Wheatley... It was the first writings by an African American woman to publish in public. The book made her famous in England and the American colonies. There was a poem in the book about slave trader brought people from Africa to America. Other than this Wheatley did not write much poetry about slavery. Wheatley's mistress Mrs. Wheatley died on October 18, 1773. At this point Wheatley did not have to do household chores anymore. Yet, it was not until 1778 that she had set free when her master, John Wheatley, died. That year she married John Peters. Peters was a free black grocer. They had two children. Both of them died when they were babies. Her husband got put in prison in 1784 for debt. After this Wheatley became very poor. Wheatley died of illness in 1784 in Boston. She was 31 years old.

[[John Caspar Wild]]

CATEGORIES: 1804 births, 1846 deaths, American painters, American printmakers, Swiss painters, People from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

John Caspar Wild (1804 - August 12, 1846) was an American painter and lithographer. He was also called J.C. Wild. He was born in Switzerland. He moved to Paris, France. In 1832 he moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He painted and printed landscapes. He painted a lot of cities in the United States. He painted pictures of Philadelphia, St. Louis, Cincinnati, and Davenport, Iowa. His artwork is owned by the Library Company of Pennsylvania.

[[Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, Female athletes, Jamaican sportspeople, Olympic gold medalists, Living people, Sprinters, Caribbean people

Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce, OD (born December 27, 1986) is a Jamaican sprinter. She became famous in 2008 when she became the first Caribbean woman to win 100 meters gold at the Olympics at the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. At the 2012 London Olympic Games she won another gold medal in the same event. She also won silver in 200 meters and 4 x 100 meters relay. She is five feet tall. She is one of the fastest women to run 100 meters of all time.

[[Samuel Rhoads]]

CATEGORIES: 1711 births, 1784 deaths, American architects, Mayors of Philadelphia, American revolutionaries

Samuel Rhoads (1711 - April 7, 1784) was an American architect and politician.

As an architect, he made drawings of what the Pennsylvania Hospital should look like. His designs were used and continued to be used after he died. He was the Mayor of Philadelphia in 1774. He also was a delegate in the First Continental Congress. He was friends with Benjamin Franklin. He was director of the Library Company of Philadelphia. He was also involved in the American Philosophical Society, where he was Vice President. 

[[Ornithomimidae]]

CATEGORIES: Coelurosaurs

Ornithomimidae ("bird-mimics") is a group of theropod dinosaurs which bore a superficial resemblance to modern ostriches. They were fast, omnivorous or herbivorous dinosaurs from the Upper Cretaceous of Laurasia (now Asia and North America). Members of the Ornithomimidae include Gallimimus, Archaeornithomimus, Anserimimus, Struthiomimus, and Ornithomimus.

Ornithomimids are a sister group to the troodontids. These groups had many bird-like features, including feathers, but they were not birds.

The skulls of ornithomimids were small, with large eyes, above relatively long and slender necks. All had toothless beaks.

The fore limbs ('arms') were long and slender and bore powerful claws. The hind limbs were long and powerful, with a long foot and short, strong toes terminating in hooflike claws. 

Ornithomimids probably acquired most of their calories from plants. Many ornithomimosaurs, including primitive species, have been found with numerous gastroliths in their stomachs, characteristic of herbivores. Henry Fairfield Osborn suggested that the long, sloth-like 'arms' of ornithomimids may have been used to pull down branches on which to feed, an idea supported by further study of their strange, hook-like hands.  Ornithomimids probably acquired most of their calories from plants. Many ornithomimosaurs, including primitive species, have been found with numerous gastroliths in their stomachs, characteristic of herbivores.

The sheer abundance of ornithomimids – they are the most common small dinosaurs in North America – is consistent with the idea that they were plant eaters, as herbivores usually outnumber carnivores in an ecosystem. However, they may have been omnivores that ate both plants and small animal prey.

[[Grace Gates]]

CATEGORIES: Gates, Grade II listed buildings in London, 1923 establishments in England

The Grace Gates (or the WG Grace Memorial Gates) are a pair of gates at Lord's Cricket Ground in London, England. They were built in 1923. They are a Grade II listed building.

[[Rapper's Delight]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 songs, Disco songs

"Rapper's Delight" is a song by The Sugarhill Gang. It was their first single. It is fourteen minutes and thirty-five seconds long. The single reached number one in the Netherlands and Canada. The song made hip hop popular around the world. Rolling Stone magazine put "Rapper's Delight" at number 248 in their 500 Greatest Songs of All Time list.

[[The Sugarhill Gang]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups established in 1973, Musical groups disestablished in 2007, African-American musical groups

The Sugarhill Gang is an American hip hop group. They are best known for their 1979 single "Rapper's Delight". It was the first hip hop song to enter the top 40 in the United States. The song was on their first album Sugarhill Gang. 

[[Bon Iver]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 establishments in the United States, Folk music groups, Grammy Award winners

Bon Iver is an American indie folk band. The band was started in Eau Claire in 2007 by Justin Vernon. The band has seven members. Their most well known song is "Skinny Love".

[[Wilko Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, Cancer survivors, English rock guitarists, English singer-songwriters, Musicians from Essex

Wilko Johnson (born John Peter Wilkinson; 12 July 1947) is an English singer, guitarist and songwriter. He is best known for his time with the pub rock band Dr. Feelgood. He is said to be one of the founding influences of the English punk movement.

Johnson was featured in the first and second seasons of the HBO series Game of Thrones. He played a mute executioner named Ilyn Payne.

In January 2013, he was diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic cancer. He chose not to receive any chemotherapy. He said in an interview with John Wilson on the BBC Radio 4 programme Front Row that the doctors told him he only had nine or ten months to live. He also said during the interview that he was going to do a "farewell tour" of the UK set for March. When he finished his tour, he announced that he was going to spend his final days recording a farewell album with Roger Daltrey, lead singer of The Who.

In October 2014, Johnson announced he was cancer free.

[[Lolita fashion]]

CATEGORIES: Fashion

Lolita fashion is a fashion subculture that started in Japan. It is based on Victorian era clothing. 

There are many types of lolita fashion. These include Gothic lolita, sweet lolita, and classic lolita. Lolita fashion brands include Baby, The Stars Shine Bright, Moi-même-Moitié, Angelic Pretty, and Manifesteange Metamorphose temps de fille. Gothic lolita began in the late 1990s in Harajuku. The visual kei musician Mana dresses in the gothic lolita style. He helped make the style popular. Some people outside of Japan wear lolita fashion. The 2002 novel Kamikaze Girls has a sweet lolita character called Momoko. 

[[Palmyra, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania, 1717 establishments, 1710s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in Pennsylvania

Palmyra is a borough of Lebanon County, in Pennsylvania, in the United States. It is near Harrisburg in the southeastern part of Pennsylvania. In 2000, the population of Palmyra was almost 7,100.

Palmyra was settled during 1717. Its local council was formed in 1913.

[[Tea gown]]

CATEGORIES: Dresses

Tea gowns are woman's at-home dresses for informal events. They became popular in mid-to-late 1800s. The earliest tea gowns were European developments influenced by Asian clothing and historical approach from 18th century.

Tea gowns usually have long sleeves.

[[Polonaise (clothing)]]

CATEGORIES: Dresses

A polonaise is a type of gown that has a bodice and an attached skirt. They started in the late 18th century. Polonaises have a cutaway, drapes and an overskirt, worn over a petticoat.

[[Pantalettes]]

CATEGORIES: Underwear

Pantalettes are female undergarments that cover the legs. They used to be worn by boys before they were old enough to wear trousers.

Pantalettes started in the 19th century in France.

[[Basque (clothing)]]

CATEGORIES: Underwear

A basque is a type of jackets, bodice or long corset worn by women. In Victorian fashion, basque means a closely fitted bodice or jacket extending past the waistline over the hips.

From 20th century or later, basque also refers to certain lingerie articles.

[[Victorian fashion]]

CATEGORIES: Fashion

Victorian fashion refers to the various fashions and trends of Europe during the Victorian Era, which lasted from 1837 to 1901, and is named after the reigning queen of England at the time, Queen Victoria. The period saw many changes in fashion, including changes in clothing, architecture, literature, and visual arts.

During this period, fashion changed a lot. In the 1800s, you had small silhouettes and pastel colors. In the 1830s, there was very exaggerated fashion. The 1860s are also famous for this along with the 1870s, the 1880s, and the 1890s. But during the early part of the 20th century, fashion was toned down in the sense of exaggeration and playfulness. 

The main woman who inspired was the Queen of England and Empress of India, Victoria. She was at the peak of royalty and ruled for many years, therefore influencing many trends during the century. 

By 1907, clothing was increasingly factory-made and often sold in large, fixed price department stores. Custom sewing and home sewing were still significant, but on the decline. New machinery and materials developed clothing in many ways.

The introduction of the lock-stitch sewing machine in mid-century simplified home and boutique dressmaking. It made it easy to add trimmings which would be costly if done by hand. Lace machinery made lace at a fraction of the cost of the old hand-made lace. Inventors developed new, cheap, bright dyes like mauveine which replaced the old animal or vegetable dyes.

[[Eodromaeus]]

CATEGORIES: Theropods

Eodromaeus (meaning "dawn runner") is an extinct genus of basal theropod dinosaur from the Upper Triassic of Argentina. An almost complete articulated skeleton (the bones were still mostly connected) was found in 1996.

Eodromaeus has been cited by Paul Sereno as "close to the root of the dinosaurs". It is the earliest known definite theropod.

[[Gothic fashion]]

CATEGORIES: Fashion

Gothic fashion (also goth fashion) is very dark, exotic or complex clothing worn in goth subculture. Both female and male goths use dark eyeliner or nail polish.

[[Pope Clement II]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 1047 deaths, German popes, People from Lower Saxony

Pope Clement II was the leader of the Catholic Church from 25 December 1046 until he died in 1047. 

He was born with the name Suidger von Morsleben in Hornburg, Lower Saxony, Germany. His parents were Count Konrad of Morsleben and Hornburg and his wife Amulrad. His date of birth is unknown.

In the year 1040, von Morsleben became the Bishop of Bamberg. In 1046 he went with King Henry III to Italy and in December, he took part in the Council of Sutri. This took Popes Benedict IX and Sylvester III out of power, and also convinced Pope Gregory VI to resign. King Henry nominated (suggested) Suidger to be the new pope and the council elected him. Suidger took the name Clement II. Shortly after he was elected, Pope Clement and Henry moved to Rome. There, Clement crowned Henry III as Holy Roman Emperor. 

Clement II's short pontificate (time as pope) began an improvement in the way the Roman Church worked, especially by making laws against simony. Simony is when people would pay to have sacraments given to them. 

The reform party criticized Clement's election because there was royal involvement and because the pope was already bishop of another place. 

Clement and the Emperor went on a journey through southern Italy to celebrate his election. Benevento was placed under an interdict (they were prevented from taking part in some Church rites) because they wouldn't allow Pope Clement to enter. Afterwards they went to Germany, where Clement made Wiborada a saint. Wiborada was a martyr who was killed praying for the people of her city.

On Henry III and Pope Clement's way back to Rome in October 1047, Pope Clement suddenly died. His body was taken to Bamberg, a place he had loved, and was buried near the Bamberg Cathedral. 

Scientists studied Clement's body in the mid-20th century. They confirmed that the pope had been poisoned with lead sugar. They do not know whether he was poisoned or whether he was using the chemical as medicine.

[[Division of Page]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Page is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It is in the far north-east of the state, next the border with Queensland and the Tasman Sea. It is named after the Right Honourable Sir Earle Page, the first leader of the Country Party of Australia and the caretaker Prime Minister of Australia after the death of Joseph Lyons in 1939. It was set up in 1984.

The division includes the towns of Ballina, Lismore, Casino, Grafton, Tyringham, Bonalbo, Nimbin and Iluka.

[[Division of Parkes]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1984 establishments in Australia

The Division of Parkes is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It is the largest electorate in the state. It is located in the far north of the state, next to the border with Queensland. It is named after Sir Henry Parkes, seventh Premier of New South Wales and sometimes known as the 'Father of Federation'. It was set up in 1984.

It includes the towns of Dubbo. It also includes the towns of Mudgee, Dunedoo, Gunnedah, Coonabarabran, Coonamble, Walgett, Narrabri, Moree, Warren, Nyngan, Cobar and Bourke. The division does not include the town of Parkes.

This is the second Division of Parkes. The first Division of Parkes (1901-69) was in suburban Sydney. 

[[Juanita Moore]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2014 deaths, Actors from Mississippi, African American actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, Deaths from natural causes

Juanita Moore (October 19, 1914 - January 1, 2014) was an American movie and television actress. She was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role in Imitation of Life. She was the fifth African-American actor to be nominated for an Academy Award and the third in that category.

Moore died on January 1, 2014 from natural causes at her home in Los Angeles. She was aged 99.

[[James Avery]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2013 deaths, Actors from New Jersey, Actors from Virginia, African American actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Deaths from surgical complications

James La Rue Avery, Sr. (November 27, 1945 – December 31, 2013) was an American actor. He was born in Virginia and raised in Atlantic City, New Jersey. He was best known for his role on the television show The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. He played father and lawyer Philip Banks, Will Smith's character's uncle.

Avery died from problems after open-heart surgery in a hospital in Los Angeles. He was aged 68.

[[The Linguini Incident]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s comedy movies, 1991 movies

The Linguini Incident is a comedy movie. It was released in May 1991. Marlee Matlin and David Bowie are in this movie.

[[Albert Newsam]]

CATEGORIES: 1809 births, 1864 deaths, American painters, American printmakers, People from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, People from Steubenville, Ohio

Albert Newsam (May 20, 1809-November 20, 1864) was an American artist. He was a painter and made lithographs of people and places.

[[Steubenville, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ohio, County seats in Ohio

Steubenville is a city in Jefferson County in the state of Ohio in the United States. The city is next to the Ohio River. 18,659 people lived there in the year 2010.

A fort used to be located where the city is. The fort was called Fort Steuben. It was there in 1786. The fort was named after Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben.

Steubenville has a nickname. It is the "City of Murals". There are over 25 different murals around the city. Franciscan University of Steubenville and Eastern Gateway Community College are located in the city.

[[Pennsylvania School for the Deaf]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Pennsylvania, Buildings and structures in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, National Register of Historic Places, Historic districts in the United States, 1890 establishments in the United States, 1890s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Pennsylvania School for the Deaf is a school for deaf people. It is in the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the United States. It is the third oldest deaf school in the United States. It was built in 1890 and is on the list of the National Register of Historic Places. It used to be called the Pennsylvania Institute for the Deaf and Dumb.

[[George Catlin]]

CATEGORIES: 1796 births, 1872 deaths, American painters, People from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, People from Jersey City, New Jersey

George Catlin (July 26, 1796-December 23, 1872) was an American painter and author. He traveled a lot, and painted a lot of pictures of Native American people in the Western United States. He was born in Wilkes-Barre in the state of Pennsylvania. He died in the city of Jersey City in the state of New Jersey.

[[Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts]]

CATEGORIES: Schools in Pennsylvania, Buildings and structures in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, National Register of Historic Places, Art museums in the United States, 1805 establishments in the United States, 1800s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts is a museum and art school in the city of Philadelphia in the state of Pennsylvania in the United States. It was started in 1805. It is the oldest art museum and art school in the United States.

[[Katherine Milhous]]

CATEGORIES: 1894 births, 1977 deaths, American artists, Writers from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Children's writers, Quakers, American illustrators

Katherine Milhous (November 27, 1894 - December 5, 1977) was an American artist, illustrator and author. She wrote and made the art for the book The Egg Tree. In 1951, the book won the Caldecott Medal for best illustrations. Milhous mainly wrote children's books.

[[Yeezus]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 albums, Kanye West albums, Hip hop albums

Yeezus is the sixth studio album by American hip hop recording artist Kanye West. It was released on June 18, 2013, by Roc-A-Fella Records and Def Jam Recordings. The album was given very good reviews by music critics. Yeezus entered the Billboard 200 at number one. It also reached number one in 30 other countries. Pitchfork gave the album a score of 9.5 out of 10. Yeezus is a hip hop album.

[[Guns, Germs and Steel]]

CATEGORIES: Science books, History books, Pulitzer Prize winners

Guns, Germs and Steel is a book by Jared Diamond about the history of humans.

The book is about why some humans societies (from small tribes to big countries) were able to use more inventions and conquer (take over) others. Diamond thinks that the answer is because of geography and not because of differences in the people themselves. The book deals with many topics like history, geography, biology, anthropology and sociology.

In 2005, a TV program was made about the book's ideas, with Diamond as the presenter. This was shown on PBS.

[[Argentavis magnificens]]

CATEGORIES: Birds, Fossils

Argentavis magnificens is one of the two largest flying birds ever discovered. This bird, sometimes called the Giant Teratorn, is an extinct species known from three sites from the late Miocene of central and northwestern Argentina or Alaska, where a good sample of fossils have been obtained.

Currently accepted estimates:

[[Curtis Axel]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people, American professional wrestlers, Sportspeople from Minnesota, WWE wrestlers

Joseph Curtis "Joe" Hennig (born October 1, 1979) is an American professional wrestler. He is better known by his ring name Curtis Axel and previous ring name Michael McGillicutty. He currently works for the WWE. He is a former Intercontinental Champion and former WWE Tag Team Champion with David Otunga. He was also a member of The New Nexus  which was led by CM Punk.

Axel was born in Champlin, Minnesota. His father was "Mr. Perfect" Curt Hennig and his grandfather is Larry "The Axe" Hennig. He chose his ring name Curtis Axel as a tribute to them.

[[Insider trading]]

CATEGORIES: Organized crime, Law

Insider trading means the trading of public companies' stocks and other assets on stock markets using secret information.  This is done by getting people who have confidential or non-public facts about how much a stock is really worth to tell traders so they can buy or sell to make profit and manipulate that particular  

stock. A stock could be worth more or less than the public knows, depending on how well a company is doing in making money, new innovations, sales and demand. 

In many countries, insider trading with secret information is against the law.

Some economists think insider trading should be allowed.

[[Arlene Francis]]

CATEGORIES: Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Deaths from cancer, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City, 1907 births, 2001 deaths

Arlene Francis (or Arline Francis Kazanjian; October 20, 1907 — May 31, 2001) was an American actress and radio talk show host. She hosted What's My Line? from 1950 to 1975. She was also a stage performer.

Francis was born in New York City. She died from Alzheimer's disease.

[[Frances Bean Cobain]]

CATEGORIES: American artists, Models from Los Angeles, California, 1992 births, Living people

Frances Bean Cobain (born August 18, 1992) is an American visual artist and former model. She was born in Los Angeles. She is the only child of Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love.

[[Isaac Vorsah]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, Living people, People from Accra, FC Red Bull Salzburg players, Ghanaian footballers

Isaac Vorsah (born 21 June 1988) is a Ghanaian football player. He plays for FC Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga. 

[[Leopard danio]]

CATEGORIES: Teleosts, Freshwater fish, Aquarium fish

The leopard danio (Brachydanio rerio or Brachydanio frankei) is a species of freshwater fish. They are native to India.

[[Elizabeth Jane Howard]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, English novelists, Writers from London

Elizabeth Jane Howard, Lady Amis, CBE, FRSL (26 March 1923 – 2 January 2014) was an English novelist. Before being a writer, Howard was an actress and a model.

Howard died at the age of 90, at her home in Bungay, Suffolk.

[[Malin Åkerman]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Ontario, Canadian models, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, Actors from Stockholm, Swedish voice actors, Swedish models, Swedish movie actors, Swedish television actors, 1978 births, Living people

Malin Maria Åkerman (born 12 May 1978) is a Swedish-Canadian actress. She acted in 27 Dresses in 2008 and in Watchmen in 2009. She also does singing and modeling. She played Kate Harrison in the ABC comedy Trophy Wife.

She will appear as Claire Wyden in the 2018 science fiction movie Rampage.

Åkerman was born in Stockholm. She moved to Canada at age two and was raised partly in Sweden and partly in Ontario.

[[Joost van der Westhuizen]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, 2017 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, Disease-related deaths in South Africa, Pretoria, South African rugby union players

Joost van der Westhuizen (20 February 1971 – 6 February 2017) was a South African former rugby union player. He played as a scrum-half for the national team. He played in the 1995 and 1999 Rugby World Cups. 

On 12 May 2011, van der Westhuizen's publicist announced that he had a muscle-related neural disease. It was believed to be a form of motor neurone disease. Doctors at the Cleveland Clinic in the United States have since confirmed that he had motor neurone disease. They believed he had only a 20% chance of living for two to five years.

On 6 February 2017, van der Westhuizen died at a hospital in Johannesburg, South Africa from complications of motor neurone disease, aged 45.

[[Seal of Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: United States state seals, Missouri, 1822 establishments in the United States, 1820s establishments in Missouri

The Great Seal of the State of Missouri is an emblem that represents the U.S. state of Missouri. It was officially adopted on January 11, 1822. The center of the seal has two bears with the motto: "United we stand, divided we fall". The outer circle has the words "The Great Seal of the State of Missouri".

The year 1820 is shown in Roman numerals. Missouri, however, did not become a state until August 1821.

[[Seal of Iowa]]

CATEGORIES: United States state seals, Iowa, 1847 establishments in Iowa

The Great Seal of the State of Iowa is an emblem that represents the U.S. state of Iowa. It was created in 1847, one year after Iowa became a state. The seal shows a soldier over fields of wheat surrounded by symbols important to Iowa's history. They include transportation, farms and mining.

The seal has the words "The Great Seal of the State of Iowa" around the outside.

[[Seal of Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: United States state seals, Louisiana, 1902 establishments in the United States, 20th-century establishments in Louisiana

The Great Seal of the State of Louisiana is an emblem that represents the U.S. state of Louisiana. It was adopted in 1902.

It has four pelicans (one adult, the other three are little). Mother Pelican wounds her breast to feed her young. "Union, justice, confidence" are the words of the motto surrounding these four pelicans.

The wording "State of Louisiana" is on the outer edge of the seal.

[[Seal of Arkansas]]

CATEGORIES: United States state seals, Arkansas, 1864 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Arkansas

The state seal of Arkansas was adopted in 1864. It was changed to its present style on May 23, 1907. The inner seal contains an Angel of Mercy, Sword of Justice and Goddess of Liberty around a bald eagle.

The outer ring has the words "Great Seal of the State of Arkansas".

[[Luhman 16]]

CATEGORIES: Binary stars

Luhman 16 is a binary brown dwarf in the southern constellation Vela at 6.6 light-years from the Sun. It is also known as WISE 1049-5319.

These are the nearest known brown dwarfs to the Solar System, and the closest system discovered since Barnard's Star in 1916. 

The primary has a stellar classification of L8 ± 1, and the secondary is probably near the L/T transition. The pair orbit each other at a distance of about 3 AU with an orbital period of about 25 years.

[[Springhill, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 establishments in the United States, Ark-La-Tex, Cities in Louisiana

Springhill is a city in the north of Louisiana. It is next to the border with Arkansas. The city was originally called "Barefoot".

Its local government was set up in 1902.

[[Yolanda Denise King]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Cardiovascular disease deaths in the United States, 2007 deaths, African-American people, People from Montgomery, Alabama

Yolanda Denise King (November 17, 1955 – May 15, 2007) was the first daughter of Martin Luther King, Jr.. She was also the sister of Martin Luther King III, Dexter Scott King and Bernice Albertine King.

Yolanda's father was killed when she was only 12 years old. On April 4, 1968, the day that he was killed, her mother got a phone call from Jesse Jackson. Yolanda was the only one of her four brothers and sisters to realize that their father had been killed. She went to his funeral and tried to act like her mother after that. She graduated from her high school when she was 16 years old.

She got bullied when she went to Smith College because she was her father's daughter, and did not know how to deal with the issue. She got over the bullying by reading his books and started thinking he was correct on his views when he was alive. After finishing her first year at the college, she went back home and at that point her grandmother Alberta Williams King was shot and killed.

She died on May 15, 2007 after talking to her brother Dexter and falling in his home due to a heart disease.

[[The Giver (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s action movies, 2010s drama movies, 2014 movies, Dystopian movies

The Giver is a science fiction movie that will be released August 2014. It is about the sacrifices of humanity. This movie was based on the book of the same name.

[[Viva Bianca]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, Living people, Australian television actors, Australian movie actors, Actors from Victoria (Australia)

Viva Bianca (or Viva Skubiszewski; 17 November 1983) is an Australian actress. She stars on the television show Spartacus. She was also on other shows.

Her maiden name is pronounced scooby-shev-ski. She is from Victoria.

[[Serena]]

CATEGORIES: 2014 drama movies, American drama movies, French drama movies

Serena is a drama movie that will be released in April 2014. The story is about a wife that cannot have children. Jennifer Lawrence plays Serena, Bradley Cooper plays her husband George. The movie is based on the novel Serena (2008) by Ron Rash.

[[Dirk Sager]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from stroke, German journalists, People from Hamburg

Dirk Sager (August 13, 1940 – January 2, 2014) was a German journalist. He was a member of P.E.N.. He worked for German broadcaster ZDF from 1968.

Sager was born in Hamburg. He studied at Free University Berlin.

He died in Potsdam from a stroke. He was aged 73.

[[Herman Pieter de Boer]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2014 deaths, Disease-related deaths in the Netherlands, Dutch journalists, Lyricists, Writers from Rotterdam

Herman Pieter de Boer (9 February 1928 – 1 January 2014), also known as Johnny Austerlitz, was a Dutch writer, journalist and lyricist. He began his career during the late 1950s, and continued for more than 55 years. During this time, he wrote over 65 novels.

De Boer was born in Rotterdam, South Holland. He was married twice during his life. He also had a long relationship with Dutch singer-songwriter Lenny Kuhr from 1981 to 1993.

He died at the age of 85 after a long illness, in Eindhoven, North Brabant.

[[Lee Daniels]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American movie actors, American television producers, Gay men, LGBT actors, LGBT African Americans, LGBT people from Pennsylvania, LGBT producers, LGBT writers, Movie directors from Pennsylvania, Movie producers from Pennsylvania

Lee Louis Daniels (born December 24, 1959) is an American actor, movie producer and director.  He produced Monster's Ball and directed the movie Precious: Based on the Novel "Push" by Sapphire. 

He has received six Academy Award nominations, including Best Director for Precious. The movie won two of the awards.

In 2013, Daniels directed The Butler, a historical drama about the White House and its presidents during the 20th century. The movie had an ensemble cast. It received positive reviews and became a box office success.

Daniels lives in New York City. He is openly gay and adopted his biological niece and nephew.

[[Eugene Allen]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2010 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, African-American people, People from Virginia

Eugene Allen (July 14, 1919 – March 31, 2010) was an American waiter and butler. He worked for the White House for 34 years until he retired in 1986. He served eight presidents of the United States. He began working at the White House in 1952. Allen's life was the inspiration for the movie The Butler, released in 2013.

Allen earned the highest rank of butlers serving in the White House. At the Maître d'hôtel in 1981, President Ronald Reagan invited Allen and his wife Helene to a state dinner at the White House. The dinner was in honor of Helmut Kohl.

Allen was born in Scottsville, Virginia on July 14, 1919. He received no formal schooling. He began working as a waiter at a pool club. Allen met his wife Helene in 1942. They had a son, Charles Allen. Helene wanted to vote for Barack Obama in 2008, but she died the day before the election, on November 3, 2008. 

Allen died at a hospital in Takoma Park, Maryland, from kidney failure. He was aged 90.

[[P. D. James]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, 2014 deaths, English novelists, Members of the House of Lords, People from Oxford, Writers from Oxfordshire

Phyllis Dorothy James, Baroness James of Holland Park, OBE, FRSA, FRSL (3 August 1920 – 27 November 2014) was an English writer of crime fiction. She was commonly known as P. D. James, which was the name her books are published under. She was most famous for a series of detective novels starring policeman and poet Adam Dalgliesh.

James was a life peer in the House of Lords. James died peacefully at her home in Oxford on 27 November 2014, aged 94.

[[Bob Keeshan]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2004 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American television presenters, American television personalities, American entertainers, American television actors, Actors from New York

Robert James "Bob" Keeshan (June 27, 1927 – January 23, 2004) was an American television producer and actor. He is known for his role as the title character of the children's television program Captain Kangaroo. It became an icon for millions of people during its 30-year run from 1955 to 1984.

Keeshan also played the original "Clarabell the Clown" on the Howdy Doody television program.

Keeshan died in Windsor, Vermont from a heart attack. He was aged 76.  

[[John Spencer (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2005 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York City, Actors from New Jersey, Emmy Award winning actors

John Spencer (December 20, 1946 – December 16, 2005) was an American actor. He was best known for playing White House Chief of Staff Leo McGarry on the successful television series The West Wing. He won an Emmy Award for this role in 2002.

Spencer died of a heart attack in a hospital in Los Angeles. He was aged 58.

[[Barnard Hughes]]

CATEGORIES: Emmy Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, Drama Desk Award winners, 1915 births, 2006 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from New York

Bernard Aloysius Kiernan "Barnard" Hughes (July 16, 1915 – July 11, 2006) was an American movie, television, and stage actor. Hughes became famous for having many random roles. He was known for being cast as a grandfather or elderly figure on television.

Hughes died in New York City, from natural causes. He was aged 90.

[[Mackenzie Foy]]

CATEGORIES: 2000 births, Living people, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Models from Los Angeles, California, Actors from Los Angeles, California

Mackenzie Christine Foy (born November 10, 2000) is an American model and Actress. She is best known for her role as Renesmee Cullen, the daughter of Bella Swan and Edward Cullen, in The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 2. Her role as Renesmee earned her a Young Artist Award for Best Supporting Young Actress in a Feature Film.

Mackenzie Foy was born in Los Angeles.

[[Jake T. Austin]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Living people, American child actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City

Jake T. Austin (born Jake Austin Szymanski; December 3, 1994) is an American movie, television and voice actor. He is known for his roles as Max Russo on Wizards of Waverly Place and as Diego on Go, Diego, Go!. He also appeared in Hotel for Dogs and Rio.   

Austin was born Jake Austin Szymanski in New York City. He is of Puerto Rican, Argentine, Spanish, Polish, Irish, and English descent.

[[Communist Party of India]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in India, Communist parties, 20th century establishments in India

The Communist Party of India, abbreviated as CPI, is a political party in India. It was founded in the British era in 1925 at Kanpur. The Communist Party of India has officially stated that it was formed on 26 December 1925 at the first Party Conference in Kanpur, then Cawnpore. S.V.Ghate was the first General Secretary of CPI. D. Raja is the current General Secretary of CPI.

[[Tomáš Plekanec]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, American Hockey League players, Czech ice hockey players, Living people, Montreal Canadiens players, Toronto Maple Leafs players, Ice hockey centres

Tomáš Plekanec (born October 31, 1982) is a Czech professional ice hockey centre. He currently plays for the Montreal Canadiens of the National Hockey League (NHL). He also played for HC Kladno of the Czech Extraliga and Toronto Maple Leafs (NHL).

Plekanec was born in Kladno, Czechoslovakia.

[[Ray Frederick]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2001 deaths, American Hockey League players, Brandon Wheat Kings players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Ice hockey people from Ontario

Ray Frederick (July 31, 1929 - August 23, 2001) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender. Frederick played a total of 5 games in the NHL with the Chicago Black Hawks during the 1954-55 NHL season.

[[North Indian Plain]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of India, Geography of Nepal, Geography of Bangladesh, Plains

The Gangetic Plains is the large space of level land that is made by the Ganges River in the northern parts of India and the border surrounding areas of the Himalayas. It is an important part of the countries of India, Nepal, and Bangladesh. Its space of about 700,000 is the home of about 1 billion persons (about one in every seven persons alive today).

Its western edge is the Thar Desert; its northern edge is the Himalaya Mountains, the highest mountains on Earth; its eastern edge is the Ganges Delta of Bangladesh, the largest River delta in the world; and its southern edge is made by the Vindhya Mountains and Satpura Range and Chota Nagpur Plateau of middle India.

[[Road safety]]

CATEGORIES: Road transport, Safety

                                                                                  Road safety is safety in using roads. Most years, traffic collisions kill about a million people worldwide. There are ways to make this less common, so roads will be safer for motor traffic, cyclists and pedestrians. It involves rules such as speed limits and those about drinking and driving, and control systems such as traffic lights and crossings. These are used to increase safety and reduce the chance of accidents.

[[Tata Steel]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of India

Tata Steel Limited (formerly Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited or TISCO) is an Indian multinational steel-making company. Their headquarters are in Mumbai. Tata is a subsidiary of the Tata Group. It was the 12th-largest steel-making company in the world in 2012. It can make about 23.8 million tonnes of crude steel each year. They are the largest private sector steel company in India measured by domestic production.

[[Prince du sang]]

CATEGORIES: Ranks in the old Kingdom of France

A prince du sang (prince of the blood) was a member of the extended French Royal Family. This meant that all people except females that were princes of the blood would be entitled to inherit the throne only if every male member of the immediate royal family had died. The main princes of the blood were known as the Prince of Conti and the Prince of Condé as well as the more significant Duke of Orléans. The prince of the blood was entitled to be styled Serene Highness (altesse sérénissime) but it was used in writing only. A majority of the princes of the blood had their own apartments at the Palace of Versailles as well as their own townhouses in Paris

[[Edward Williams Clay]]

CATEGORIES: 1799 births, 1857 deaths, American painters, American cartoonists, American printmakers, People from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American lawyers

Edward Williams Clay (April 17, 1799 - December 31, 1857) was an American artist. He made a lot of different types of art. He made paintings and cartoons. He was also a printmaker.

[[Pennsylvania Bar Association]]

CATEGORIES: Pennsylvania, Law

The Pennsylvania Bar Association is an American voluntary association of lawyers and people going to school for law. It is located in the state of Pennsylvania and is for people who work in that state. In the year 2013, 28,000 people were a part of the association.

[[Billy Unger]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Florida, American television actors, 1995 births, Living people

Billy Unger (born October 15, 1995) is an American actor. He is best known for his role of Chase Davenport on the sitcom Lab Rats. Unger was born in southern Florida. When he was 11 years old, he moved to California for his acting career.

[[Hattie Caraway]]

CATEGORIES: Cardiovascular disease deaths in Virginia, Deaths from stroke, United States senators from Arkansas, 1878 births, 1950 deaths

Hattie Ophelia Wyatt Caraway (February 1, 1878 — December 21, 1950) was the first woman elected to serve a full term in the United States Senate. She was the Senator from Arkansas for just over thirteen years (December 1931 to January 1945).

Caraway had a stroke in 1950. She died later that year in Falls Church, Virginia due to this stroke.

[[Division of Paterson]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1949 establishments in Australia, 1984 disestablishments in Australia, 1992 establishments in Australia

The Division of Paterson is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It is just north of Newcastle, on the coast of the Tasman Sea. It includes the towns of Anna Bay, Bulahdelah. Clarence Town, Dungog, Forster, Hawks Nest, Lemon Tree Passage, Medowie, Morpeth, Nelson Bay, Paterson, Raymond Terrace, Stroud, Tuncurry and parts of Nabiac, Thornton and East Maitland. The division was first set up in 1949 and abolished in 1984. It was recreated after a redistribution in 1992.

The division is named after poet and author Banjo Paterson. It is possible that is was named after Colonel William Paterson who also gave his name to the Paterson River and the town of Paterson, both of which were in the electorate. It was first contested at the 1949 election.

In 1949 the division included Singleton, Maitland and Muswellbrook. Redistributions moved the electorate north until it included Gunnedah and Mudgee. The original electorate was abolished in 1984. In 1992 it was recreated covering a similar area to the original electorate. 

[[Elaine S. Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: US Democratic Party politicians, United States senators from Louisiana, Deaths from COPD, 1929 births, 2018 deaths

Elaine Schwartzenburg Edwards (March 8, 1929 – May 14, 2018) was a former United States Senator from Louisiana. She was a member of the Democratic Party. Edwards was the wife of Edwin Edwards, the former Governor of Louisiana. They were married from 1949 until they divorced in 1989. She was a Senator for three and a half months during 1972. Edwards was born in Marksville, Louisiana.

Edwards died on May 14, 2018 at her daughter's home in Denham Springs, Louisiana of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease at the age of 89.

[[Margaret Chase Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 United States presidential candidates, United States senators from Maine, Deaths from stroke, 1897 births, 1995 deaths

Margaret Chase Smith (14 December 1897 — 29 May 1995) was an American politician. She was a member of the House of Representatives from 1940 to 1949, and a United States Senator from 1949 to 1973. She was from the Republican Party. She was the first female to be in both houses of the United States Congress.

Chase was born in Maine. She died after a stroke at age 97.

[[Eva Bowring]]

CATEGORIES: US Republican Party politicians, Politicians from Missouri, United States senators from Nebraska, 1892 births, 1985 deaths

Eva Kelly Bowring (January 9, 1892 — January 8, 1985) was a United States Senator from Nebraska. She was the first woman from Nebraska in the Senate. She was a Senator for seven months during 1954.

She was born in Missouri. She died the day before her 93rd birthday.

[[George Goodman]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2014 deaths, Writers from St. Louis, Missouri, Deaths from myelofibrosis

George Jerome Waldo Goodman (August 10, 1930 – January 3, 2014) was an American author and economics commentator. He was best known by his pen name Adam Smith. He also wrote fiction under his real name. 

Goodman died at the age of 83, at the University of Miami Hospital. He had suffered from the bone marrow disorder myelofibrosis.

[[Rey]]

Rey means "king" in Spanish and Occitan. It comes from the Latin word rex. It is used as a name in many cultures.

It can also mean:

[[Peter O'Sullevan]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2015 deaths, BBC people, Cancer deaths in London, Sportspeople from the Republic of Ireland

Sir Peter John O'Sullevan (3 March 1918 – 29 July 2015) was an Irish retired horse racing commentator. He worked for the BBC, the Press Association, Daily Express and Today. He was the BBC's leading horse-racing commentator from 1947 to 1997.

O'Sullevan was born in Kenmare, Ireland. He studied at Hawtreys, Charterhouse School, and later at Collège Alpin International Beau Soleil in Switzerland. O'Sullevan died of cancer in London, aged 97.

[[Rebecca Latimer Felton]]

CATEGORIES: US Democratic Party politicians, United States senators from Georgia, 1835 births, 1930 deaths

Rebecca Ann Latimer Felton (10 June 1835 — 24 January 1930) was an American writer, lecturer and politician. She was in the United States Senate as a Democrat. She was from Georgia.

Latimer Felton was born in the Atlanta area. She died in the city of Atlanta, aged 94.

[[Oswald of Northumbria]]

CATEGORIES: Anglo-Saxons, 600s births, 640s deaths, Kings and queens

Oswald (605–642) was a King of Northumbria and the first Christian monarch of that kingdom. Oswald brought St. Aidan from Iona to start a monastery on the island of Lindisfarne. Oswald was also venerated as a saint.

[[Don Everly]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births

[[Phil Everly]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2014 deaths

[[Don't Turn Around]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 songs, Pop songs

"Don't Turn Around" is a popular song. It was first sung by Tina Turner in 1986. It was not until 1988, though, when singers Bonnie Tyler and Luther Ingram made their own versions of the song, that it got really popular. The most famous version of the song was by Ace of Base in 1994.

[[All That She Wants]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 songs, Pop songs

"All That She Wants" is a hit single from Swedish pop group Ace of Base. It was released in 1992. The song hit #2 in the United States. It also topped the charts in Germany, Australia, United Kingdom and Denmark. The song was very popular in 1993.

The longest version was 7 minutes and 58 seconds long.

[[The Sign]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 songs, Pop songs

"The Sign" is a hit song performed by Ace of Base. It was released as a single on 29 October 1993 in Europe. The song hit #2 on the UK Singles Chart. It spent six weeks near #1 in the United States.

A cover version of this song was played on the television series Full House.

Another version of this song lasts six minutes and 49 seconds.

[[The Woodlands (Philadelphia)]]

CATEGORIES: National Historic Landmarks of the United States, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Cemeteries in the United States, 1770 establishments, 1770s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies, 18th-century establishments in Pennsylvania

The Woodlands is a National Historic Landmark in the city of Philadelphia in the state of Pennsylvania in the United States. The Schuylkill River goes past The Woodlands. It has a mansion, a building to put a carriage inside (called a "carriage house"), and a garden that became a cemetery in the year 1840. Over 30,000 people are buried in the cemetery. 

[[Schuylkill River]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Pennsylvania

The Schuylkill River is a river in the state of Pennsylvania in the United States. It is 135 long. It used to be called "Tool-pay Hanna" by the Lenape.

[[Pennsylvania Prison Society]]

CATEGORIES: Non-profit organizations of the United States, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Imprisonment and detention, 1787 establishments in the United States, Human rights organizations in the United States, 1780s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Pennsylvania Prison Society is a non-profit organization. It in the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the United States. It helps prisoners and their families. It also helps prisoners after they are out of prison. 

It was started in 1787. It used to be called the Philadelphia Society for Alleviating the Miseries of Public Prisons. It was founded by a group of men from Philadelphia. The group of men included Benjamin Franklin, Benjamin Rush, John Swanwick, Tench Coxe, Zachariah Poulson, and William White. William White was the president for a long time.

It now has many small organizations, called "chapters", around Pennsylvania. It has 43 chapters. 

[[Irene Papas]]

CATEGORIES: Greek singers, Greek actors, 1926 births, Living people

Irene Papas (born September 3, 1926) is a Greek musician and actress. She played the title character in the 1962 movie Elektra. She also had lots of other movies.

Irene Papas was born in Corinth in Greece. She stopped acting in 2003.

Some sources give 1929 as her real year of birth.

[[(Shake, Shake, Shake) Shake Your Booty]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 songs, Pop songs

"(Shake, Shake, Shake) Shake Your Booty" is a 1976 hit song from KC and the Sunshine Band. The song was #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 and on the soul singles chart.

The lyrics caused controversy due to their sexual nature.

[[Warren Skorodenski]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, American Hockey League players, Calgary Wranglers players, Canadian ice hockey goaltenders, Chicago Blackhawks players, Edmonton Oilers players, Ice hockey people from Manitoba, Living people, Sportspeople from Winnipeg

Warren Skorodenski (born March 22, 1960 in Winnipeg, Manitoba) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender. Frederick played a total of 35 games in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Chicago Black Hawks and Edmonton Oilers.

[[Mower Hospital]]

CATEGORIES: Hospitals in the United States, Buildings and structures in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American Civil War, 1862 establishments in the United States, 1860s establishments in Pennsylvania

Mower Hospital was a military hospital in a neighborhood named Chestnut Hill, which is in the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was built in 1862 for soldiers who were in the American Civil War. It was run by the United States Army.

Architect John McArthur, Jr. designed the hospital. It was near the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad so hurt soldiers could be brought to the hospital fast. It was open from January 1863 until May 1865. 

It had room for 40,000 patients. It was shaped so that people would not get sicker or get an infection from other sick and injured people. It had many things for the people who worked there, and for the injured soldiers. People could go to a barber shop and go grocery shopping. It had lights powered with gas and fresh water. 

The hospital does not exist anymore.

[[Alicia Rhett]]

CATEGORIES: American movie actors, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state), Deaths from natural causes, 1915 births, 2014 deaths

Alicia Rhett (1 February 1915 — 3 January 2014) was an American painter and actress. She appeared in several movies, but was more known for painting portraits. She played India Wilkes in Gone with the Wind.

She was born in Savannah, Georgia. She died at age 98 in Charleston, South Carolina.

[[Merchants' Exchange Building (Philadelphia)]]

CATEGORIES: National Historic Landmarks of the United States, 1834 establishments in the United States, Buildings and structures in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1830s establishments in Pennsylvania

The Merchants' Exchange Building is a building in the city of Philadelphia which is in the state of Pennsylvania in the United States. It is in a historical neighborhood called Old City. Architect William Strickland designed the building. It was built starting in the year 1832 and was done in 1834. The Merchants' Exchange Building was the first office building in the city. It used to be a brokerage house.  In 1875, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange moved into the building. 

In the year 2001 it became a National Historic Landmark.

[[Saul Zaentz]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from Alzheimer's disease, Disease-related deaths in San Francisco, Movie producers from New Jersey, People from Passaic, New Jersey

Saul Zaentz (ˈ (February 28, 1921 – January 3, 2014) was an American movie producer. He also owned a record company. He won the Academy Award for Best Picture three times. In 1996, he was awarded the Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award.

Zaentz died in San Francisco, California. He was suffering from Alzheimer's disease. He was 92 years old.

[[Proxy war]]

CATEGORIES: Wars

A proxy war, or proxy warfare, is a war in which opposite sides use third parties as substitutes for fighting each other directly. States sometimes use less powerful states as proxies but more often use violent non-state actors, mercenaries, and other third parties, such as during in a civil war. They may give their proxies money, weapons, training, or other help. The hope is  to strike an opponent without a full-scale war, especially one that could involve the nuclear bomb.

The United States and the Soviet Union used many proxies to fight each other during the Cold War. Both sides tried to increase their influence and to decrease the other's influence.

[[Wim Kok]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2018 deaths, Deaths from heart failure, Deputy Prime Ministers of the Netherlands, Dutch lobbyists, Dutch trade unionists, Former leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Labour Party (Netherlands) politicians, Politicians from South Holland, Prime Ministers of the Netherlands

Willem "Wim" Kok (September 29, 1938 – October 20, 2018) was a politician and former trade unionist from the Netherlands. He represented the Labour Party (PvdA). He served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from August 22, 1994 until July 22, 2002.

Kok was born in Bergambacht in South Holland.

Kok died on October 20, 2018 in Amsterdam from heart failure at the age of 80.

[[Josip Manolić]]

CATEGORIES: 1920 births, Living people, European military people, Majors, Military personnel of World War II, Prime Ministers of Croatia

Josip Manolić (born 22 March 1920) is a Croatian politician. He was the Prime Minister of Croatia from 24 August 1990 to 17 July 1991.

[[George H. W. Bush vomiting incident]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 in the United States, George H. W. Bush, 1990s in Japan, 1992 in Asia

The George H.W. Bush vomiting incident was an incident that occurred on January 8, 1992 at around 8:20 p.m. JST when U.S. President George H.W. Bush fainted after vomiting at a banquet hosted by the then Prime Minister of Japan, Kiichi Miyazawa. Bush vomited on Miyazawa's lap. Bush later made comments to the press that he had a 24 hour flu bug. The incident was widely reported, After the event, many comedians made fun of Bush because of the incident.

[[Harry Whittington]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, American lawyers, People from Austin, Texas

Harry M. Whittington (born March 3, 1927) is an American lawyer and real estate investor. He became famous in the media on February 11, 2006, when he was accidentally shot by Vice President Dick Cheney. Cheney was hunting quail with two women on a ranch in Kenedy County, Texas, near Corpus Christi.

[[Dick Cheney hunting incident]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 in the United States, 2000s in Texas

The Dick Cheney hunting incident happened on February 11, 2006, when then U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney shot Harry Whittington, a 78-year-old Texas attorney, while participating in a quail hunt on a ranch in Kenedy County, Texas. Both Cheney and Whittington called the incident an accident.

On February 14, 2006, Whittington suffered a non-fatal heart attack and atrial fibrillation due to at least one lead-shot pellet lodged in or near his heart. Cheney did not speak publicly about the incident until February 15 in an interview with Fox News. Early reports indicated that Cheney and Whittington were friends and that the injuries were minor.  Whittington has since told the Washington Post that he and Cheney were not close friends but acquaintances and has not said if Cheney apologized.

[[Kiichi Miyazawa]]

CATEGORIES: 1919 births, 2007 deaths, Prime Ministers of Japan, People from Hiroshima Prefecture, University of Tokyo alumni

Kiichi Miyazawa was a Japanese politician. Miyazawa was a member of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). He was the 78th Prime Minister, serving from 5 November 1991 to 9 August 1993.

Miyazawa died in Tokyo at the age of 87.

[[Mercedes Sosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2009 deaths, Deaths from multiple organ failure, Argentine singers, Latin Grammy Award winners

Haydée Mercedes Sosa (9 July 1935 – 4 October 2009) was an Argentine singer. She was popular throughout Latin America and many countries outside the continent. Sosa became one of the important examples of nueva canción. She gave voice to songs written by both Brazilians and Cubans. She was best known as the "voice of the voiceless ones".

Sosa suffered from breathing problems in later years. Sosa went into hospital in Buenos Aires on September 18, 2009. She died from multiple organ failure on October 4, 2009. She was aged 74.

[[Walk the Line]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, English-language movies, Johnny Cash, Movies directed by James Mangold

Walk the Line is a American biographical drama movie based on the life of country singer Johnny Cash. It stars Joaquin Phoenix, Reese Witherspoon, Ginnifer Goodwin and Robert Patrick. It was released on November 18, 2005. It got positive reviews from critics.

[[Ginnifer Goodwin]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from Memphis, Tennessee

Jennifer Michelle Goodwin (or Ginnifer Goodwin; born May 22, 1978) is an American actress. She played Margene Heffman in the television series Big Love. She also appeared on movies, including Mona Lisa Smile, Something Borrowed, Walk the Line, He's Just Not That Into You and Zootopia.

[[Robert Patrick]]

CATEGORIES: Saturn Award winners, 1958 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, American stage actors, Actors from Georgia (U.S. state)

Robert Patrick (born Robert Patrick Hammond Jr.; November 5, 1958) is an American actor. He is known for his roles in Die Hard 2, Terminator 2: Judgment Day, Spy Kids, Walk the Line, Wayne's World, and in Identity Thief. He won a Saturn Award in 2000 for his role in The Sopranos.

Patrick was born in Marietta, Georgia.

[[John Fogerty]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, Living people, American rock guitarists, American songwriters, Writers from Berkeley, California, Singers from Berkeley, California

John Cameron Fogerty (born May 28, 1945) is an American musician, songwriter and guitarist. He is best known for his time with the roots rock band Creedence Clearwater Revival (CCR), as well as his time as a solo musician.

Fogerty was born in Berkeley, California. The first band he was a part of was called The Golliwogs. He started this band with his brother Tom Fogerty, and Doug Clifford and Stu Cook.

In 1966, Fogerty served a United States Army Reserve unit at Fort Bragg, Fort Knox, and Fort Lee. In July 1967, he was discharged. At that time the band changed its name to Creedence Clearwater Revival. The band broke up in 1972. Since then, Fogerty has had a successful solo career.

He is currently married to Julie Kramer. They have one daughter from Kramer's previous marriage, two sons and a daughter.

[[Kola Superdeep Borehole]]

CATEGORIES: Earth sciences

The Kola Superdeep Borehole (Кольская сверхглубокая скважина, Kolskaya sverkhglubokaya skvazhina) was a very deep hole dug on the Kola Peninsula in Russia during 1970-1992 and closed by 2008. It was dug in order to learn more about the inside of the Earth. Digging started on May 24, 1970. The work continued until 1992, or 1994. The borehole was kept open until 2005. SG-3, the deepest part of the hole, reached 12,261 below the surface in 1989. That is the deepest hole ever made and is still the deepest man-made point on Earth.

For a long time, SG-3 was also the longest hole by distance from its opening. In 2008, the Al Shaheen BD-04A oil well in Qatar reached +27 farther and, in 2011, the Odoptu OP-11 oil well off Sakhalin got +83 farther.

[[Oliver Glasner]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Austrian football managers, Austrian footballers

Oliver Glasner (born August 28th, 1974) is an Austrian retired football player. He is now assistant coach of FC Red Bull Salzburg.

[[On Denoting]]

CATEGORIES: Works of philosophy, Essays, 1905 works

"On Denoting" is an essay by Bertrand Russell from 1905. The essay was published in the philosophy journal Mind in 1905. It was reprinted, in both a special 2005 anniversary issue of the same journal and in Russell's Logic and Knowledge, 1956. The essay is one of the most significant and influential philosophical essays of the 20th century. In it, Russell introduces definite and indefinite descriptions, formulates descriptivism with regard to proper names, and characterises proper names as "disguised" or "abbreviated" definite descriptions.

In the 1920s, Frank P. Ramsey referred to the essay as "that paradigm of philosophy". In the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy entry Descriptions, Peter Ludlow singled the essay out as "the paradigm of philosophy", and called it a work of "tremendous insight"; provoking discussion and debate among philosophers of language and linguists for over a century.

[[The Chumscrubber]]

CATEGORIES: 2005 movies, American independent movies

The Chumscrubber is a 2005 movie. It got mostly bad reviews from movie critics. The main character, Dean Stiffle, was played by Jamie Bell. In the movie Dean's best friend Troy commits suicide.

[[Mutya Buena]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Celebrity Big Brother contestants, English R&B singers, English pop singers, English dance musicians, British soul musicians, People from Brent (London borough), Singers from London, Sugababes members

Rosa Isabel Mutya Buena (born 21 May 1985) is an English singer and songwriter. She is best known for being a member of the Sugababes.

[[Siobhán Donaghy]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, Singers from London, Sugababes members

Siobhán Emma Donaghy (born 14 June 1984) is an English singer. She was born in London.

[[Dr. Seuss' The Lorax]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 animated movies, American family movies, American animated movies, American criminal comedy movies, American adventure movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books by Dr. Seuss, Dystopian movies

Dr. Seuss' The Lorax is a 2012 American animated movie based on Dr. Seuss' book of the same name. It stars Danny DeVito, Ed Helms, Zac Efron, Taylor Swift, Betty White, Rob Riggle and Jenny Slate. It was released on March 2, 2012. The movie received positive reviews. It has songs like Let it Grow and How Bad Can I Be.

[[Geraldine James]]

CATEGORIES: English television actors, English movie actors, 1950 births, Living people

Geraldine James (born 6 July 1950) is an English actress. She has acted in television series, such as She's Been Away. She played Portia in a Broadway production of The Merchant of Venice in 1989. More recently, she acted in the movie Diana in 2013.

James was born in Berkshire, England.

[[Look Who's Talking Too]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 comedy-drama movies, 1990 romance movies, 1990s romantic comedy movies, 1990s romantic drama movies, American comedy-drama movies, American romantic comedy movies, American romantic drama movies

The movie Look Who's Talking Too is a comedy and drama movie. It was released December 14, 1990 in the United States. The movie is about childbirth and a couple wanting to be an average family. Kirstie Alley plays Mollie, Roseanne Barr voices Julie, John Travolta plays James and Bruce Willis voices Mikey. The movie received very negative reviews. Its overall box office, however, was moderately strong.

[[Division of Reid]]

CATEGORIES: Electoral divisions of Australia, New South Wales, 1922 establishments in Australia

The Division of Reid is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It is named after the Right Honourable Sir George Reid, a former Premier of New South Wales and the fourth Prime Minister of Australia. Ot was set up in 1922.

The division is in the inner-western suburbs of Sydney. It includes Abbotsford, Breakfast Point, Cabarita, Canada Bay, Chiswick, Concord, Concord West, Drummoyne, Five Dock, Homebush, Homebush West, Liberty Grove, Lidcombe, Mortlake, Newington, North Strathfield, Rhodes, Rodd Point, Russell Lea, Silverwater, Sydney Olympic Park, Wareemba, and Wentworth Point; and includes parts of Auburn, Berala, Burwood, Croydon, and Strathfield.

[[Benton County, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Indiana counties, 1840 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Indiana

Benton County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Fowler. About 93% of the land in the county is used for growing crops, mainly corn and soybeans.

[[Twink Caplan]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, American television actors, American movie actors, 1947 births, Living people

Twink Caplan (born 25 December 1947) is an American actress. She played Rona in the first two Look Who's Talking movies. She also played Miss Geist in the 1995 movie Clueless.

The actress was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

[[Fowler, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Indiana, County seats in Indiana

Fowler is a town in Benton County, Indiana, in the United States

[[Blackford County, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Indiana counties, 1838 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Indiana

Blackford County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Hartford City.

[[Boone County, Indiana]]

CATEGORIES: Indiana counties, 1830 establishments in Indiana

Boone County is a county in Indiana. Its county seat is Lebanon.

[[Alex Cross]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 crime movies, 2012 thriller movies, 2010s crime thriller movies, 2010s mystery movies, American crime thriller movies, American mystery movies, American serial killer movies, English-language movies, Movies set in Detroit, Michigan, Lionsgate movies

Alex Cross is an American crime thriller movie. It was released in October 2012. It is about a police detective and psychologist who lives in Detroit with his family. He would like to leave Detroit for Washington, D.C.. But when his wife is killed, Alex goes looking for evidence against the killer.

Tyler Perry plays the title character. Cross was previously played by Morgan Freeman in Kiss the Girls and Along Came a Spider.

The movie critics did not give good reviews for Alex Cross. The movie did not do well at the box office.

[[Cicely Tyson]]

CATEGORIES: Drama Desk Award winners, Tony Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, Models from New York City, American stage actors, American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from New York City, 1924 births, 2021 deaths

Cicely Tyson (December 19, 1924 – January 28, 2021) was an American actress. She played Sipsey in the comedic-drama movie Fried Green Tomatoes (1991), and played Mamma Kay in the movie The Haunting in Georgia (2013). She also played Carrie Grace Battle in the television series Sweet Justice.

Tyson was born in New York City. She died on January 28, 2021 in New York City at the age of 96.

[[Suchitra Sen]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2014 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in India, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Indian movie actors, People of British India

Suchitra Sen (6 April 1931 – 17 January 2014) was an Indian actress. She appeared in over 100 Bangladeshi movies. She was best known for her roles in Deep Jwele Jaai and Aandhi.

Sen was born near Pabna, Benagal. She was awarded the Padma Shri in 1972. Sen died on January 17, 2014 from a heart attack. She was aged 82. She had been admitted due to an infection.

[[Nicanor Parra]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2018 deaths, Chilean poets, Centenarians, Physicists, Mathematicians, Chilean scientists

Nicanor Parra Sandoval (5 September 1914 – 23 January 2018) was a Chilean poet, mathematicianSeptember 2017 and physicist. He was considered to be an influential poet in Latin America and one of the most important poets of Spanish literature. Parra had been nominated several times for a Nobel Prize in Literature.

Parra died on January 23, 2018, at 7:00 am, in La Reina, Chile, at the age of 103.

[[Fouad Ajami]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2014 deaths, American educators, American writers, Cancer deaths in the United States, Disease-related deaths in Maine, Deaths from prostate cancer

Fouad A. Ajami (فؤاد عجمي; September 18, 1945 – June 22, 2014) was an Lebanese-born American professor and writer. He was a senior fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution.

He was born in Arnoun, Lebanon. Ajami was an outspoken supporter of the Iraq War. He has also appeared on CNN multiple times.

Ajami died from prostate cancer in Maine, aged 68.

[[F. Murray Abraham]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1939 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

F. Murray Abraham (born October 24, 1939) is an American actor. He won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role as Antonio Salieri in Amadeus (1984). He is also known for his roles on The Name of the Rose (1986), Finding Forrester (2000), Inside Llewyn Davis (2013), All the President's Men (1976) and Scarface (1983). 

[[Carat (mass)]]

CATEGORIES: Units of mass

The carat is a unit of mass, which is used for gemstones and pearls. One Carat is equal to 0.2g. The current definition was adopted in 1907  at the Fourth General Conference on Weights and Measures. Officially, the carat can be divided into 100 pointsof 2 milligrams each.

[[Carat (purity)]]

CATEGORIES: Units of measurement

The carat is a unit of measurement for gold alloys. In that context, one carat gold means that the twenty-fourth part of an alloy is gold, the other parts are made of other metals, generally silver or copper. Pure gold would be soft,  which makes it unusable for many purposes. Alloyed gold is harder than pure gold and so more suitable for applications such as jewellery. An alloy that has 24 carat actually contains 99.9 percent gold, 18 carat gold contains 75 percent gold . Sometimes, a scale  up to 1000 is used; as an example, gold 585 mean there is 58.5 percent gold in the alloy. This means that "Gold 585" actually contains 14 carat.

[[Grudge Match]]

CATEGORIES: Sports comedy movies, 2013 movies

Grudge Match is a sports movie. It was released in December 2013. The movie is about major boxing fights. The fights happen after one of the participants is fired from the local shipyard. Robert De Niro plays Billy "The Kid" McDonnen, Sylvester Stallone plays Henry Sharp and Kim Basinger plays Sally.

The critics did not give good reviews for Grudge Match. Overall box office was not good.

[[The Hunger Games (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 science fiction movies, 2012 thriller movies, American science fiction movies, American thriller movies, Movies based on books, Lionsgate movies, Post-apocalyptic movies, Dystopian movies

The Hunger Games is an adventure, drama, and science fiction movie. It is based on The Hunger Games, the first book in the Hunger Games trilogy by Suzanne Collins. The movie was directed by Gary Ross. It was released on March 12, 2012 in Los Angeles. In other places it was released on March 23, 2012.

The movie is set in the future in North America. It is about twenty-four teenagers fighting each other in the "Hunger Games". They fight until there is only one person left alive. It shows survival of the fittest in extreme conditions. The games are broadcast live on television in the whole country of Panem.

The movie is 142 minutes long. It is rated PG-13.

The reviews of the movie were mostly positive. Its box office performance was very good. 

The Hunger Games is a 2012 sci-fi adventure movie directed by Gary Ross made from Suzanne Collins’s book The Hunger Games. It is the first movie of many in the series. The story takes place in a distant future in the nation of Panem. Where a boy and girl is selected from each of the 12 districts to be in The Hunger Games. Katniss Everdeen (Jennifer Lawrence) 2 volunteers to take her younger sister Primrose Everdeen. Katniss competes in The Hunger Games with another tribute from her district Peeta Mallark (Josh Hutcherson) 3.

Katniss and her family live in District 12, a coal-mining district and the poorest and the least amount of people among the districts. Katniss volunteers to take her sister’s place in The Hunger Games. Katniss competes in The Hunger Games with Peeta Mallark 3. Katniss uses her knowledge about hunting to win with her fellow tribute Peeta. This character from the Hunger Games is played by Jennifer Lawrence.

Peeta is a tribute from District 12 in the 74th hunger games. He fights in the Hunger Games with Katniss the female tribute. The two both win the Hunger Games by actively rebelling against the rules. Making a rebellion in Panem the nation they live in. This character from the Hunger Games is played by Josh Hutcherson.

Gale Hawthrone is a resident in District 12. He was close to Katniss due to their love of hunting. He has similar features to Katniss. He is a minor character in the first movie but has a bigger role later on. He loved Katniss in the first movie but had to hide his love as Peeta and Katniss had to play as "star-crossed lovers" deeply upsetting him.

[[Kaya Scodelario]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from London, English movie actors, English television actors, Models from London, 1992 births, Living people

Kaya Rose Scodelario (born Kaya Rose Humphrey; born 13 March 1992) is an English actress and former model. She plays Teresa in The Maze Runner in 2014. She also played Peshet in the 2010 movie Clash of the Titans.

Scodelario was born in London. She changed her surname to that of her Brazilian mother.

[[Laurel Hill Cemetery]]

CATEGORIES: Cemeteries in the United States, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, National Historic Landmarks of the United States, 1839 establishments in the United States, 1830s establishments in Pennsylvania

Laurel Hill Cemetery is a cemetery in the city of Philadelphia in Pennsylvania. It is a National Historic Landmark of the National Park Service. It is near the Schuylkill River. It is 3.5 miles north of Philadelphia.

A group of wealthy people from Philadelphia wanted a cemetery outside the city. They found a place for it in Laurel Hill. It used to be owned by a businessman named Joseph Sims. Building of the cemetery started in 1836. It was finished in 1839. The Scottish architect John Notman designed the cemetery. It was his first commission. There is a chapel. It is made in the Gothic architecture style.

Louis Antoine Godey, Sarah Josepha Hale, George G. Meade, John C. Pemberton, and many other famous people, are buried there.

[[Zoey Deutch]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, Actors from Los Angeles, California, 1994 births, Living people

Zoey Francis Thompson Deutch (born November 10, 1994) is an American actress. She plays Rose Hathaway in the 2014 movie Vampire Academy: Blood Sisters. She also played Juliet Martin in the television show Ringer. She recently appeared as Stephanie Fleming in Why Him? (2016).

Deutch was born in Los Angeles, California. She is the daughter of Lea Thompson.

[[Great Central Fair]]

CATEGORIES: 1864 in the United States, American Civil War, Festivals in the United States, History of Philadelphia, 1860s in Pennsylvania, June events

The Great Central Fair was a fair that happened in June 1864. It took place in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was held to raise funds for the United States Sanitary Commission. 

[[Dawson Creek]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in British Columbia

Dawson Creek is a city in the Canadian province of British Columbia. Dawson Creek is in the northeastern part of British Columbia. 

The population of Dawson Creek was 11,583 in 2011. The city is named after a creek that runs through. The creek itself is named after George Mercer Dawson by his land survey team when they passed through the area in August 1879.

[[Queen Charlotte, British Columbia]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in British Columbia

Queen Charlotte (or Queen Charlotte City) is a village in the Canadian province of British Columbia. It is located in the south end of Graham Island in the Haida Gwaii group of islands. It is on Skidegate Inlet.

The population of Queen Charlotte was 944 in 2011. The town was first established 1908 when the first sawmill in the islands began operating. The villagers worked to help supply Allied war planes with lumber during World War II. Within the year, three general stores, a drug and clothing store, two hotels, a pool hall, a boarding house, a barbershop and the local newspaper started operating in the village. The town gained a stable economy from the quick growth in the timber industry during the Great Depression.

[[Bob Vila]]

CATEGORIES: American television personalities, Writers from Florida, 1946 births, Living people

Robert Joseph Vila (also Bob Vila; born 20 June 1946) is an American home improvement television host. He hosted This Old House (1979-89), Bob Vila's Home Again (1990 to 2005) and Bob Vila (2005 to 2007). Vila has written ten books.

Vila was born in Miami, Florida.

[[Paz Vega]]

CATEGORIES: Spanish television actors, Spanish movie actors, 1976 births, Living people, People from Seville

Paz Vega (also Paz Campos Trigo; born January 2, 1976) is a Spanish actress. In the 2009 movie Triage, she played Elena. In the 2004 movie Spanglish she played Flor Moreno.

Paz Vega was born in Seville, Andalusia.

[[Janick Gers]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, English rock guitarists, Iron Maiden

Janick Robert Gers (born 27 January 1957 in Hartlepool, England) is an English guitarist. He currently plays for the heavy metal band Iron Maiden where he is one of three guitarist along with Dave Murray and Adrian Smith.

He uses the Fender Stratocaster and the Marshall JMP-1 preamp through a Marshall 9200 power amp.

[[Rachel Blanchard]]

CATEGORIES: Actors from Toronto, Canadian movie actors, Canadian television actors, 1976 births, Living people

Rachel Elise Blanchard (born March 19, 1976) is a Canadian actress. She played Hannah in the 2001 movie Sugar & Spice. She also played Maureen in the 2005 erotic movie Where the Truth Lies.

Blanchard was born in Toronto, Ontario.

[[Emmanuelle Vaugier]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television actors, Canadian movie actors, 1976 births, Living people, People from Vancouver

Emmanuelle Vaugier (born 23 June 1976) is a Canadian actress, musician and fashion model. She played Detective Jessica Angell on CSI: NY. She also played Mia on Two and a Half Men. She has also been in some movies.

The actress was born in Vancouver, British Columbia.

[[Kate Mara]]

CATEGORIES: American television actors, American movie actors, American stage actors, 1983 births, Living people, Actors from New York

Kate Mara (born February 27, 1983) is an American actress. She played Alma Del Mar Jr. in the movie Brokeback Mountain. She also played Jessica Chandler for Random Hearts in 1999. She has also performed on stage. In 2017, she starred as Mary Jo Kopechne in Chappaquiddick. She played Zoe Barnes on House of Cards.

Mara was born in Bedford, New York.

[[Hop]]

Hop or hops can mean several things:

[[Battle of Wilson's Creek]]

CATEGORIES: 1861 in the United States, American Civil War battles, 19th century in Missouri

The Battle of Wilson's Creek, also called the "Bull Run of the West", was a battle of the American Civil War. It was the first battle that took place west of the Mississippi River. Nathaniel Lyon, the Union general, was the first general killed in the Civil war.

[[Philadelphia Brigade]]

CATEGORIES: Union Army, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

The Philadelphia Brigade was a brigade in the Union Army during the American Civil War. It got its name because its soldiers came from the city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was part of the Army of the Potomac.

[[Christina Grimmie]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, 2016 deaths, American pop singers, Murdered musicians, Murders by firearm in Florida, Singers from New Jersey

Christina Victoria Grimmie (March 12, 1994 - June 10, 2016) was an American pianist, musician and singer. She has performed cover versions of songs by Christina Aguilera, Selena Gomez and Demi Lovato. She released an extended play, Find Me, in June 2011. Her studio album With Love was released in 2013. A second EP, Side A, was released in 2016.

Grimmie was born and raised in New Jersey. She was shot dead in Orlando, Florida at age 22 at her concert.

[[Bianca Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: Musicians from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, American television personalities, 1994 births, Living people

Bianca Taylor Ryan (born September 1, 1994) is an American singer. She was the winner of NBC's America's Got Talent in its first season. Her first album, Bianca Ryan, was released in autumn 2006. In 2012, Ryan joined the cast of the independent movie We Be Kings. She played a teenaged musician who is guided by an angel to an ancient blues musician frozen in a blizzard.

Ryan was born and raised in Philadelphia.

[[Jodelle Ferland]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian television actors, Canadian movie actors, 1994 births, Living people, Actors from British Columbia

Jodelle Micah Ferland (born October 9, 1994) is a Canadian actress. She played Sharon and Alessa in the thriller movie Silent Hill (2006). She also played Mary Jensen in the miniseries Kingdom Hospital (2004) and Bree Tanner in the movie The Twilight Saga: Eclipse (2010). She began acting at age two.

Ferland was born in Nanaimo, British Columbia.

[[Dean Spielmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Judges of the European Court of Human Rights, Lawyers, People from Luxembourg City

Dean Spielmann (born 26 October 1962) is a lawyer from Luxembourg. He is the President of the European Court of Human Rights. He has been a Judge of the European Court of Human Rights from Luxembourg since 2004. He was made President of the Fifth Section of the Court in 2011. He was made Vice-President and then later President in 2012.

[[Wamba]]

CATEGORIES: Settlements in Kenya, Towns in Africa

Wamba is a small town in Kenya. It is in the Samburu district. The Wamba administrative division is there. The town has a big Catholic hospital. The hospital is considered important to the Samburu district. The town plays a role in the tourism industry in Kenya. It has strong ties with Prince William of Britain due to his efforts to promote conservation and ties with Samburu communities.

[[Hockley County, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Texas counties

Hockley County is a county in the state of Texas in the United States. In 2010, 22,935 people lived there.  The county seat is Levelland.  The county was named for George Washington Hockley, who was Secretary of War for the Republic of Texas.

[[Weld County, Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Colorado counties

Weld County is a county in the state of Colorado. The county seat is Greeley. As of the 2010 Census, 252,825 people lived there.

[[Gunnison County, Colorado]]

CATEGORIES: Colorado counties

Gunnison County is a county in the state of Colorado. The county seat is Gunnison. As of the 2010 Census, 15,324 people lived there.

[[Claiborne Parish, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Louisiana parishes, 1828 establishments in the United States, 19th-century establishments in Louisiana

Claiborne Parish  is a parish of the state of Louisiana. The county seat is Homer. As of the 2010 Census, 17,195 people lived there.

[[Sergey Kozlov]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Russian footballers

Sergey Semenovich Kozlov (4 May 1960 – 4 January 2014) was a Russian football player and manager. Kozlov played as a midfielder and defender.

Kozlov died from problems after a heart attack on 4 January 2014. He was aged 53. He died in his hometown of Khabarovsk.

[[Bernard Glasser]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2014 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Movie producers from Chicago, Movie directors from Chicago

Bernard M. Glasser (June 3, 1924 – January 2, 2014) was an American movie producer and director. He was known for producing many science-fiction movies such as Space Master X-7, The Return of the Fly, Run Like a Thief and Triangle.

Glasser was born in Chicago, Illinois. He was married to Joan Glasser until his death. They had four children. Glasser died on January 2, 2014 from natural causes at his home in Los Angeles. He was aged 89.

