[[DuckDuckGo]]

CATEGORIES: 2008 establishments in the United States, Companies of the United States, Internet-related organizations, Search engines

DuckDuckGo is a search engine made by Gabriel Weinberg. It stresses that it does not collect information about users like Google does, and keeps data private. It headquarters is in Paoli, Pennsylvania, United States. As of March 2020, it received 56,256,596 searches every day.

[[Popular sovereignty]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Popular sovereignty is the idea that the power of a state and its government are created and sustained by the permission of its people. They give their permission through their elected representatives (Rule by the People), who is the source of all political power. It is very similar to a social contract, with philosophers such as Thomas Hobbes, John Locke and Jean-Jacques Rousseau.

Americans created their Revolution and government on popular sovereignty. In the 1850s Popular sovereignty in the United States meant a very controversial way to deal with slavery in the territories. This was pushed by senator Stephen A. Douglas. It meant that people living in a territory would be the ones to decide if slavery would be allowed. It led to fighting in Bleeding Kansas. This was because abolitionists (people who didn't want slavery) and pro-slavery people came to the Kansas territory in order to decide the elections. 

Popular sovereignty also can be described as the "voice of the people."

[[American Red Cross]]

CATEGORIES: Organizations in Washington, D.C., Red Cross

The American Red Cross (ARC), also known as The American National Red Cross, is a humanitarian group that gives emergency assistance, disaster relief, and teaches people how to prepare for disasters in the United States. It is the official US group related to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies and the United States movement to the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement.

The groups offers services and developments programs.

[[Daniel Woodson]]

CATEGORIES: Governors of Kansas Territory, 19th-century American politicians

Daniel Woodson (May 24, 1824 – October 5, 1894) was secretary of Kansas Territory (1854–1857) and a five-time acting governor of the territory.

[[Kansas Democratic Party]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 establishments in the United States, Kansas Democrats, Government of Kansas

The Kansas Democratic Party is the affiliate of the Democratic Party in the state of Kansas. The chair of the Kansas Democratic Party is Vicki Hiatt.

[[Kansas Republican Party]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Kansas, 1859 establishments in the United States, Kansas Republicans

The Kansas Republican Party is the state political party in Kansas of the United States Republican Party. The Kansas Republican Party was created in May 1859. It has been the main political party of Kansas ever since.

[[Scorched earth]]

CATEGORIES: Military, War

A scorched-earth policy is a military strategy. The goal is to destroy anything that might be useful to the enemy while the enemy is going through or running away from a place. Any useful things that could be used by the enemy may be targeted, for example food sources, water supplies, transportation, communications, industrial resources, and even the local people themselves.

The policy can be done by the military in enemy territory, or in its own home territory.

Notable historic examples of scorched-earth tactics include the Russian army's strategy during the failed Swedish invasion of Russia, the failed Napoleonic invasion of Russia, William Tecumseh Sherman's March to the Sea in the American Civil War, colonel Kit Carson's subjugation of the American Navajo Indians, Lord Kitchener's advance against the Boers, the initial Soviet retreat commanded by Joseph Stalin during the German Army's invasion of the Soviet Union in the Second World War, the subsequent Nazi German retreat on the Eastern Front, and the burning 605-732 oil wells by retreating Iraqi military forces in the Gulf War.

[[Dissected Till Plains]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the United States

The Dissected Till Plains are physiographic parts of the Central Lowlands province. In turn, those are part of the Interior Plains physiographic part of the United States. They are in southern and western Iowa, northeastern Kansas, the southwestern corner of Minnesota, northern Missouri, eastern Nebraska, and southeastern South Dakota.

The Dissected Till Plains were created by pre-Wisconsin glaciers during the Pre-Illinoian Stage. Glacial scouring and deposition by the Laurentide ice sheet and the later accumulation of loess during the Wisconsin Stage created the rolling hills and good, healthy dirt in the region.

The region is also the western edge of the Corn Belt.

[[List of University of Kansas people]]

CATEGORIES: University of Kansas

The list of University of Kansas people includes notable alumni and faculty of the University of Kansas. It is in Lawrence, Kansas.

[[The Immortals (Gunn novel)]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 books, Lawrence, Kansas

The Immortals was a book by James E. Gunn. It was released in 1964. It takes place in Lawrence, Kansas. It was used as inspiration for the 1970 TV series The Immortal.

[[Lüterkofen-Ichertswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Lüterkofen-Ichertswil is a municipality of the Bucheggberg district in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland. It was created in 1961 from the merger of the two independent municipalities of Lüterkofen and Ichertswil.

[[Seewen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Seewen is a municipality of the district Dorneck in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland. Baslerweiher is a pond above the village.

[[Himmelried]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Himmelried is a municipality of the district of Thierstein in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Samuel J. Jones]]

CATEGORIES: Bleeding Kansas

Samuel Jefferson Jones (April 16, 1827 en dash December 10, 1883) was a pro-slavery man who was the Douglas County sheriff in Kansas Territory from late 1855 until early 1857. He helped create the territorial capital of Lecompton. He was an important person in the "Bleeding Kansas" conflict.

In 1858, he moved to La Mesilla, New Mexico Territory. In September 1858, he was chosen to be the collector of customs at Paso del Norte (now Ciudad Juárez). In New Mexico, he was involved with the promotion of Mowry City. When that town's future failed, he bought a ranch near La Mesilla and died there in 1883. His grave was later returned to Lecompton in 2013.

[[Élie Brousse]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2019 deaths, French sportspeople, People from Occitanie, Rugby league players

Élie Brousse (28 August 1921 – 2 July 2019) was a French rugby league player. He played as a second-row. He played for Roanne, Marseille and Lyon Villeurbanne in the French Rugby League Championship. He played for the French national team 31 times between 1946 and 1953. He was born in Bages, Aude.

Brousse died on 2 July 2019 in Roanne, at the age of 97.

[[W. Thomas Molloy]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Canadian educators, Canadian lawyers, Canadian politicians, People from Saskatoon, Canadian Queen's Counsel

William Thomas Molloy CAN (July 27, 1940 – July 2, 2019) was a Canadian lawyer and politician. He was the Chancellor of the University of Saskatchewan. He was the 22nd Lieutenant Governor of Saskatchewan from 2018 until his death in 2019. His appointment as Lieutenant Governor was made by Governor General of Canada Julie Payette. Molloy was born in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.

In May 2019, Molloy was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. He died on July 2, 2019 from the disease in Saskatoon at the age of 78.

[[Gladys Berejiklian]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, Premiers of New South Wales, Politicians from Sydney

Gladys Berejiklian (born 22 September 1970) is an Armenian Australian politician. She is the 45th and current Premier of New South Wales since 23 January 2019. She is the Leader of the New South Wales Liberal Party. She has been a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly since 2003, representing the seat of Willoughby. Berejiklian was born in Sydney.

[[Supervillain]]

CATEGORIES: Comics characters, Fictional characters, Fictional criminals, Literature

Supervillains, sometimes called supercriminals, are fictional characters generally appearing in comic books and in superhero movies as antagonists of superheroes. A Supervillain normally has powers that make him or her a threat that only a superhero can stop.  A lot of Supervillains are enemies of specific superheroes. For example, the Supervillain Lex Luthor is an enemy of Superman, The Joker is an enemy of Batman, and the Green Goblin is an enemy of Spider-Man.

[[Daniel Andrews]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Premiers of Victoria

Daniel Michael Andrews (born 6 July 1972) is an Australian politician. He is the 48th Premier of Victoria since 2014. He has been the leader of the Victorian branch of the Labor Party since 2010. From 2010 to 2014, Andrews was Leader of the Opposition in that state. 

On 24 November 2018, he was re-elected as Premier of Victoria when Victorian Labor won the 2018 election in a landslide.

[[Night game]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

A night game, also called a nighter, is a sports game that happens at night. Depending on the sport, this can be done either with floodlights or with the usual low-light conditions. The term "night game" is typically used only for sports usually held outdoors. Although indoor sports often happen at night, these events are have lights regardless of the time of day they happen.

[[Homecoming]]

CATEGORIES: Sports

Homecoming is the tradition of welcoming back former students and members. It also can be about celebrating an organization's existence. It is a tradition in many high schools, colleges, and churches in the United States. It does not exist in Canada.

[[Will Hodgman]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Premiers of Tasmania, Liberal Party of Australia politicians, People from Hobart

William Edward Felix Hodgman (born 20 April 1969) is an Australian politician. He was the 45th Premier of Tasmania from 31 March 2014 to 20 January 2020. He was a member for the Division of Franklin in the Tasmanian House of Assembly from 2002 to 2020. In March 2018, he became the longest-serving leader in the history of the Tasmanian Liberals. 

[[Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Chief Ministers of the Australian Capital Territory

The Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory is the head of government of the Australian Capital Territory. The leader of the party with the largest representation of seats in the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly.

The current Chief Minister is Andrew Barr of the Labor Party, who was elected by the Assembly on 11 December 2014 following the resignation of Katy Gallagher.

[[Andrew Barr]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Chief Ministers of the Australian Capital Territory

Andrew James Barr (born 29 April 1973) is an Australian politician. He is the Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory since December 2014.  He has been a Labor Party member for the seat of Molonglo in the ACT Legislative Assembly since 5 April 2006.

[[Gary Humphries]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, Chief Ministers of the Australian Capital Territory

Gary John Joseph Humphries AUS (born 6 July 1958) is an Australian politician. He is the Deputy President of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. He was a member of the Australian Senate representing the Australian Capital Territory for the Liberal Party of Australia from 2003 to 2013.

He was the Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory from 2000 to 2001.

[[Chief Minister of the Northern Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Chief Ministers of the Northern Territory

The Chief Minister of the Northern Territory is the head of government of the Northern Territory. 

The Chief Minister is formally appointed by the Administrator, who will appoint the head of whichever party holds the majority of seats in the unicameral Legislative Assembly. 

Since 31 August, following the 2016 election, the Chief Minister is Michael Gunner of the Labor Party. He is the first Chief Minister to have been born in the Northern Territory.

[[Kansas Jayhawks football]]

CATEGORIES: College football, University of Kansas

The Kansas Jayhawks football program is the college football program of the University of Kansas. The program is in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I Bowl Subdivision (FBS). The team competes in the Big 12 Conference. The head coach is Les Miles. He became the coach after the 2018 season.

It was created in 1890. This makes it one of the oldest college football teams in the United States. 

Along with Iowa, Missouri, Nebraska, and Washington University in St. Louis, Kansas was a charter member of the Missouri Valley Intercollegiate Athletic Association in 1907. This became the Big Eight Conference. The Big Eight became the Big 12 in 1996. Kansas is the only original member of the MVIAA that is still part of the Big 12.

[[Michael Gunner]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, Chief Ministers of the Northern Territory

Michael Patrick Francis Gunner (born 6 January 1976) is an Australian politician. He is the 11th and current Chief Minister of the Northern Territory since 31 August 2016. He is a Labor member of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly since 2008.

Gunner was elected leader of Labor in the Northern Territory and Leader of the Opposition, in April 2015. He led Labor to a landslide victory in the 2016 Northern Territory election. He was sworn in on 31 August, becoming the first Chief Minister to have been born in the Northern Territory.

[[David Binder (journalist)]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from kidney disease, Disease-related deaths in Illinois, American political writers, American educators, Journalists from London, Writers from Illinois, People from Evanston, Illinois

David Binder (February 22, 1931 – June 30, 2019) was an American journalist, author and lecturer. He was born in London. He worked in Washington, D.C. and Berlin. He was a journalist for The New York Times from 1961 to 2004. He reported on political events related to the Cold War on Eastern and Western Europe, the Soviet Union, the United States, Cuba and Puerto Rico.  He served was a foreign correspondent in 1961 in Berlin.

Binder died in Evanston, Illinois from kidney disease on June 30, 2019 at the age of 88.

[[Kansas Sports Hall of Fame]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in Kansas, 1961 establishments in the United States, Sports halls of fame, Museums in the United States, Wichita, Kansas

The Kansas Sports Hall of Fame  is a museum located in Wichita, Kansas. It is about preserving the history of sports in the state of Kansas. The museum has exhibits, archives, facilities, services, and activities to honor those people and teams whose achievements in sports brought fame to themselves, to their communities and to the entire state of Kansas.

[[Chris Zylka]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Actors from Ohio, American models, American movie actors, American television actors, Living people

Christopher Michael Settlemire, better known by his stage name, Chris Zylka is an American actor of Russian descent.  He was raised by a single mother whose maiden name is Zylka and has never met his father.  He was born on May 9th, 1985 and originally hoped to become an artist.  His grandfather then introduced him to the work of Russian dramatists inspiring him to become an actor.  He moved to Hollywood and spent his first six months there living inside a car.  He got a job working at a restaurant and continued working there until he managed to become an actor on television.  He appeared in the television shows, "Everybody hates Chris" and "Hannah Montana". He then went on to movies and played roles in both comedy and horror films.  He played Flash Thompson in the 2012 movie The Amazing Spider-Man.  Zylka is best-known for having played the character Tom Garvey in the HBO television series "The Leftovers".

Zylka was engaged to Paris Hilton though they called off their wedding.

[[Tony Revolori]]

CATEGORIES: 1996 births

Tony Revolori is an American actor whose parents are Guatemalan.  He was born in the year 1996.  When he was two years old, he was in a commercial for baby food. Revolori played the young Zero Moustafa in the comedy film "The Grand Budapest Hotel". Revolori also played Flash Thompson in the film Spider-Man: Homecoming and received death threats for his performance in the role.

[[Betty Buckley]]

CATEGORIES: Tony Award winning actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Texas, 1947 births, Living people

Betty Lynn Buckley (born July 3, 1947) is an American actress and singer. She won a 1983 Tony Award for Best Actress Featured in a Musical for her role in the original Broadway play Cats.

Buckley later played Norma Desmond in the 1994-96 play Sunset Boulevard. She was nominated for a 1995 Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Musical. Her other Broadway credits include 1776 and Pippin.

Buckley also acted in the series Eight is Enough from 1977 to 1981. Other acts include playing Ms. Collins in Carrie (1976). Other acts include the musical version of Carrie in 1988 and playing Mrs. Jones in The Happening (2008).

Buckley was born in Big Spring, Texas.

[[Ursula von der Leyen]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, Living people, European Commissioners, German politicians

Ursula Gertrud von der Leyen (GT UvdL.ogg; née Albrecht, 8 October 1958) is a German politician. She is the President of the European Commission.

She had served as Minister of Defence of Germany from 2013 to 2019. She is a member of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU).

Von der Leyen is the only minister to have been in Angela Merkel's cabinet since she took office in 2005, first as Minister of Family Affairs and Youth from 2005 to 2009, then as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs from 2009 to 2013, before becoming Minister of Defence in 2013.

German politician Ernst Albrecht was her father.

On 2 July 2019, von der Leyen was nominated by the European Council to the position of President of the European Commission. With a close majority, she was elected by the European Parliament on 16 July, making her the first woman to hold the office.

[[Hein & Oss]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2016 deaths, 2019 deaths, German singers, German writers, Songwriters, Duos

Heinrich "Hein" Kröher (September 17, 1927 – February 14, 2016) and Oskar "Oss" Kröher (September 17, 1927 – July 1, 2019) were German twins who were folk singer-songwriters. They were born in Pirmasens, Rhineland-Palatinate. Heinrich and Oskar Kröher were performing more than fifty years on the stages in Europe and North America. They wrote songs about the Hecker uprising.

Hein died on February 14, 2016 from a short-illness in Pirmasens, aged 88. Oss died on July 1, 2019 in Rodalben, Rhineland-Palatinate from long-illness at the age of 91.

[[Gerald McCann]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, Designers, British artists

Gerald McCann (11 November 1931 – 26 June 2019) was a British fashion designer. He was seen as an important designer of the Swinging London fashion scene, alongside names such as Mary Quant. He moved to the US to work on New York's Seventh Avenue in 1974, returning to Britain some two decades later, where he continued supplying UK fashion retailers.

McCann died in Lancaster on 26 June 2019 at the age of 87.

[[Richard L. Berkley]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Mayors of Kansas City, Missouri, US Republican Party politicians

Richard L. Berkley (born Richard L. Berkowitz; June 29, 1931) is an American politician. He was the 50th Mayor of Kansas City, Missouri, from 1979 to 1991. He is a member of the Republican Party. Berkley was born in Kansas City and studied at Harvard University. 

[[Sly James]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, Living people, American lawyers, Mayors of Kansas City, Missouri, US Democratic Party politicians

Sylvester "Sly" James, Jr. (born December 9, 1951), is an American politician and lawyer. He was the 54th Mayor of Kansas City, Missouri from May 2, 2011 through August 1, 2019.

[[Mark Funkhouser]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, Living people, Mayors of Kansas City, Missouri, American political writers, Politicians from West Virginia, Writers from West Virginia, Writers from Missouri, US Democratic Party politicians

Mark Funkhouser (born October 4, 1949) is an American author and politician. He was the 53rd mayor of Kansas City, Missouri from May 1, 2007 until May 2, 2011. He was the Kansas City's city auditor. He is the publisher of Governing magazine. He is also the author of the blog, "Bring on the Funk, and the book, Honest, Competent Government: The Promise of Performance Auditing.

[[Paden City, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in West Virginia

Paden City is a city in Tyler and Wetzel Counties in the U.S. state of West Virginia, along the Ohio River. It was founded in 1903. The population was 2,633 at the 2010 census.

[[Emanuel Cleaver]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, United States representatives from Missouri, Mayors of Kansas City, Missouri, American Methodists, Politicians from Texas, US Democratic Party politicians, People from Waxahachie, Texas

Emanuel Cleaver II (born October 26, 1944) is an American politician. He is a member of the U.S. House of Representatives. Cleaver currently represents MO, where he has served since 2005. The district is mostly part of Kansas City.

Cleaver is a member of the Democratic Party, and in January 2010, he became chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, a position he held until 2019.

Cleaver was on the Kansas City Council from 1979 to 1991, until he was elected Mayor, from 1991 to 1999. In 2004, Cleaver was elected to represent Missouri's 5th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives.

Cleaver was the pastor at the St. James United Methodist Church in Kansas City, Missouri from March 1972 until June 28, 2009.

[[President of the Senate (Australia)]]

CATEGORIES: Parliament of Australia, Presidents of the Australian Senate

The President of the Senate is the presiding officer of the Australian Senate, the upper house of the Parliament of Australia.

The largest party in the Senate is not always the governing party, as government is determined by the House of Representatives. The President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives may  be from different parties.

[[Scott Ryan (Australian politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, Living people, Presidents of the Australian Senate, Politicians from Melbourne

Scott Michael Ryan (born 12 May 1973) is an Australian politician. He has been a Senator for Victoria since 2008, representing the Liberal Party. He has been the President of the Senate since 2017.

[[Doug McClelland]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, Living people, Presidents of the Australian Senate, Politicians from New South Wales

Douglas McClelland AUS (born 5 August 1926) is an Australian politician. He was elected to the Australian Senate as a member of the Australian Labor Party at the 1961 election, representing New South Wales. He left the Senate 1987. From 1983 to 1987, he was President of the Senate.

[[Margaret Reid (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, Presidents of the Australian Senate, Politicians from South Australia

Margaret Elizabeth Reid AUS (née McLachlan; born 28 May 1935) is an Australian politician. He was a Senator for the Australian Capital Territory from 1981 to 2003, representing the Liberal Party. She is the only woman to have served as President of the Senate, holding that office from 1996 to 2002.

[[Lina Wertmüller]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, Living people, Italian screenwriters, Italian movie directors, Writers from Rome

Lina Wertmüller (ˈliːna vertˈmyller, -mul-; born 14 August 1928) is an Italian screenwriter and movie director. She was the first woman nominated for an Academy Award for Best Director  for Seven Beauties in 1977. 

She is also known for her movies The Seduction of Mimi, Love and Anarchy and Swept Away. In 2019, Wertmüller was announced as one of the four recipients of the Academy Honorary Award for her career.

[[Wes Studi]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, American movie producers, Actors from Oklahoma

Wesley Studi (born December 17, 1947) is a Cherokee American actor and movie producer. He was born in Cherokee County, Oklahoma. He is known for his roles of Native Americans in movies. 

He has appeared in Academy Award-winning movies, such as Dances with Wolves (1990) and The Last of the Mohicans (1992), and in the Academy Award-nominated movies Geronimo: An American Legend (1993) and The New World (2005). 

He is also known for playing Sagat in Street Fighter (1994). In 2019, he will receive an Academy Honorary Award, becoming the first Native American actor to receive an Oscar.

[[Scott Adkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English voice actors, Martial artists, Stuntmen, Actors from Birmingham

Scott Edward Adkins (born 17 June 1976) is an English actor and martial artist. He is best known for playing Russian prison fighter Yuri Boyka in the 2006 movie Undisputed II: Last Man Standing and its two sequels: Undisputed III: Redemption (2010) and Boyka: Undisputed (2016) and as Casey Bowman in the 2009 movie Ninja and its 2013 sequel Ninja: Shadow of a Tear.

He has also appeared in Doctor Strange, The Bourne Ultimatum, The Expendables 2 and Zero Dark Thirty.

[[Sid Ramin]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning composers, Grammy Award winners, Emmy Award winners, 1919 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from natural causes, Disease-related deaths in New York City, American centenarians, American composers, Musicians from Boston, Massachusetts

Sidney Norton Ramin (January 22, 1919 – July 1, 2019) was an American orchestrator, arranger, and composer. He was born in Boston, Massachusetts. With Leonard Bernstein and Irwin Kostal, he co-orchestrated the music for West Side Story. He is the composer of the famous hit "Music to Watch Girls By". He won an Academy Award for Best Music, Scoring of a Musical Picture in 1962.

Ramin died on July 1, 2019 in New York City from natural causes at the age of 100.

[[James F. Sirmons]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2018 deaths, American centenarians, Businesspeople from Florida, People from St. Petersburg, Florida

James "Jim" Franklin Sirmons (December 16, 1917 – April 20, 2018) was an American broadcasting executive. He worked for CBS from 1942 to 2000. In 1981 he was promoted to Senior Vice President of Industrial Relations, and finally in 1994 promoted to Executive Vice President of Industrial Relations. He was born in St. Petersburg, Florida.

Surmons died on April 20, 2018 in Saint Petersburg at the age of 100.

[[Keiran Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, Living people, British movie actors, British movie directors, British movie producers, British sex industry people, Pornographic actors, Pornographic movie directors, Pornographic movie producers

Keiran Lee (born Adam Diksa on 15 January 1984) is a British pornographic actor, director, and producer who works mainly for pornographic production company Brazzers. His penis was insured for $1 million in 2012 by Brazzers. He performed in over 3,500 porn videos in his pornographic career. He is one of the highest paid pornographic actors.

[[Basant Kumar Birla]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2019 deaths, Indian businesspeople, People from Kolkata, Indian philanthropists

Basant Kumar Birla (12 January 1921 – 3 July 2019) was an Indian businessman. He was a member of the noted Birla family. He was chairman of the Krishnarpan Charity Trust, B.K. Birla Institute of Engineering & Technology (BKBIET) and other educational trusts and institutes. He also wrote many books, including his autobiography Svantah Sukhaya.

Birla was born in Calcutta (now Kolkata). He married Sarla Birla (1923–2015) in 1941, and had three children. Birla died in Mumbai on 3 July 2019, at the age of 98.

[[Watson]]

Watson may refer to:

[[Baranagar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in India, Baranagar

Baranagar or Baranagore is a city and municipality of North 24 Parganas district in the Indian state of West Bengal. It is in the region of Greater Kolkata and therefore is a part of the area covered by Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA).

It is home to the Indian Statistical Institute for research, teaching and application of statistics, natural sciences and social sciences. Baranagore Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama High School is one of the oldest and renowned schools in Baranagar and North 24 Parganas.

Baranagar is a major industrial centre for the manufacture of agricultural and industrial machinery, chemicals, castor oil, and matches. There are also many cotton-processing companies.

[[Mitchell Feigenbaum]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2019 deaths, American educators, American physicists, Jewish American academics, Jewish American scientists, Scientists from Brooklyn, Scientists from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Mitchell Jay Feigenbaum (December 19, 1944 – June 30, 2019) was an American mathematical physicist. His studies in chaos theory led to the discovery of the Feigenbaum constants. He became a professor at Rockefeller University in 1986. He was given a MacArthur Fellowship in 1983. In 1986, he was awarded the Wolf Prize in Physics.

Feigenbaum was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to Jewish parents. He grew up in Brooklyn, New York. Feigenbaum died on June 30, 2019 in New York City, at the age of 74.

[[List of presidents of Guinea-Bissau]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Guinea-Bissau, Lists of heads of state

The following is a list of presidents of Guinea-Bissau, since the establishment of the office of President in 1973.

[[List of governors of Portuguese Guinea]]

CATEGORIES: Guinea-Bissau

This is a list of European colonial administrators responsible for the territory of Portuguese Guinea, an area equivalent to modern-day Guinea-Bissau. In 1941 the capital moved from Bolama to Bissau.

[[Kansas National Guard]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas, United States Army

The Kansas National Guard is a part of the United States National Guard in the U.S. state of Kansas. It includes both the Kansas Army National Guard and the Kansas Air National Guard. The Governor of Kansas is Commander-in-Chief of the Kansas National Guard when in state use. Kansas's most powerful military commander, the Adjutant General of Kansas, is the military head of the Guard. They are the second most powerful because the Governor is the most powerful.

[[David Sassoli]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Italian journalists, MEPs for Italy, People from Florence, Politicians from Tuscany, Presidents of the European Parliament, Writers from Tuscany

David Maria Sassoli (born 30 May 1956) is an Italian politician and journalist. He has been the President of the European Parliament since July 2019. He is a member of the Democratic Party. He first became a member of the European Parliament in July 2009. Before entering politics, he worked for newspaper Il Giorno and as a news reporter for TG3 and TG1.

Sassoli was born in Florence. He is married to Alessandra Vittorini, and has two children. He is a fan of football club Fiorentina.

[[Sudarshan Agarwal]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, Disease-related deaths in India, Governors of Uttarakhand, Governors of Sikkim, Governors of Uttar Pradesh

Sudarshan Agarwal (19 June 1931 – 3 July 2019) was an Indian politician. He served as the Governor of Uttarakhand from 2003 to 2007, and the Governor of Sikkim from 2007 to 2008. He was also Secretary-General of the Rajya Sabha from 1981 to 1993. He was born in Ludhiana, Punjab. 

On 3 July 2019, Agarwal died after a long illness in New Delhi. He was 88.

[[Costa Cordalis]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, Living people, German pop singers, German skiers, Greek singers, Reality show winners

Costa Cordalis (Κώστας Κορδαλής, born Konstantinos Cordalis; 1 May 1944 – 2 July 2019) was a Greek-German schlager singer. He was born in Elateia, Phthiotis, Greece and moved to Germany in his teenage years. His 1976 song "Anita" was a chart success, reaching the top ten in Germany, Switzerland and Austria. In 2004, he won the reality television game show Ich bin ein Star – Holt mich hier raus!. He also competed for Greece at the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships in 1985.

Cordalis was married and had three children. His son, Lucas, is also a singer. Cordalis lived in Santa Ponsa, Mallorca, Spain. He died in Mallorca on 2 July 2019, at the age of 75.

[[Lewis Cass]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century American politicians

Lewis Cass (October 9, 1782spaced ndashJune 17, 1866) was an American military officer, politician, and statesman. He represented Michigan in the United States Senate. He was in the Cabinets of two U.S. Presidents, Andrew Jackson and James Buchanan. He was also the 1848 Democratic presidential nominee. He was an important person for the idea of Popular Sovereignty. That idea said that the people in each territory should decide whether to allow slavery.

[[Lüsslingen-Nennigkofen]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Lüsslingen-Nennigkofen is a municipality in the district of Bucheggberg, in the canton of Solothurn, Switzerland. On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Lüsslingen and Nennigkofen merged to form Lüsslingen-Nennigkofen.

[[Unterramsern]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Unterramsern is a municipality of the district of Bucheggberg, in the canton of Solothurn, Switzerland.

[[Tscheppach]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn

Tscheppach is a former municipality of the district of Bucheggberg, in the canton of Solothurn, Switzerland.  On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Tscheppach, Brügglen, Aetingen, Aetigkofen, Bibern, Gossliwil, Hessigkofen, Mühledorf, Küttigkofen, Kyburg-Buchegg merged to form the new municipality of Buchegg.

[[The Eldridge Hotel]]

CATEGORIES: Lawrence, Kansas, National Register of Historic Places in Douglas County, Kansas, Buildings and structures in Lawrence, Kansas, Hotels

The Eldridge House Hotel (often called the Eldridge Hotel or simply the Eldridge) is a historic building on Massachusetts Street, in downtown Lawrence, Kansas. The building is named after Shalor Eldridge. He was an important anti-slavery person who built the building in the mid-1800s. The building is currently used as a hotel.

[[Cross Canadian Ragweed]]

CATEGORIES: American musical groups

Cross Canadian Ragweed was an American rock band formed in Yukon, Oklahoma in 1994. The band included of Cody Canada (lead guitar/vocals), Grady Cross (guitar), Randy Ragsdale (drums), and Jeremy Plato (bass guitar). The group had 7 studio albums and 3 live albums from 1994-2010. After almost 15 years together, the group stopped in 2010.

[[Mission California]]

CATEGORIES: 2007 albums

Mission California is Cross Canadian Ragweed's fourth studio album. It was released on October 2, 2007. The band spent 25 days in the studio. It was recorded in San Diego, California. Lee Ann Womack did background vocals on 4 of the songs to include the Chris Knight cover "Cry Lonely."

[[Golden Age of Radio (album)]]

CATEGORIES: Albums

Golden Age of Radio is the second studio album by American singer-songwriter Josh Ritter. It was Ritter's first album to be released nationally after he was signed to Signature Sounds. His official website says Golden Age of Radio was first released by himself in 2001, and it was given out at shows. This version contained a different, solo version of the title song called "Country Song." It also had different mastering, and a song track order.

[[Robert J. Dole Institute of Politics]]

CATEGORIES: University of Kansas, 2003 establishments in the United States, Political organizations based in the United States

The Robert J. Dole Institute of Politics (often called the Dole Institute) is a nonpartisan political institution at the University of Kansas. It was created by the former U.S. Senator from Kansas and 1996 Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole. It opened on July 22, 2003.

[[Spencer Museum of Art]]

CATEGORIES: University of Kansas, Art museums in the United States, Buildings and structures in Kansas, 1928 establishments in the United States, Lawrence, Kansas

The Spencer Museum of Art is an art museum located on the University of Kansas campus in Lawrence, Kansas. The museum has nearly 36,000 artworks and artifacts in many different forms. The collection shows the history of European and American art from ancient to contemporary, as well as East Asian art.

[[University of Kansas Natural History Museum]]

CATEGORIES: University of Kansas, Natural history museums, Museums in the United States, 1901 establishments in the United States, National Register of Historic Places in Douglas County, Kansas

The University of Kansas Natural History Museum is a museum at the University of Kansas. It is part of the KU Biodiversity Institute, a research center about the study of the life of the planet.

[[Monte Águila]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Chile

Monte Águila is a city of the Republic of Chile with 6,090 inhabitants (2002 census).

[[John Clute]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, Living people, British science fiction writers, Canadian science fiction writers, British critics, Canadian critics

John Frederick Clute (born 12 September 1940) is a Canadian-born author and critic. He mainly writes about science fiction  and fantasy literature,  He has lived in England and the United States since 1969. He is a very important person in the history of science fiction. 

He was one of eight people who started the English magazine Interzone in 1982 (the others including Malcolm Edwards, Colin Greenland, Roz Kaveney, and David Pringle).

Clute's articles on science fiction have appeared in many publications since the 1960s. He is a co-editor of The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction (with Peter Nicholls) and of The Encyclopedia of Fantasy (with John Grant), and The Illustrated Encyclopedia Of Science Fiction. All three won Hugo Awards for Best Non-Fiction. He earned the Pilgrim Award from the Science Fiction Research Association for Lifetime Achievement in the field of science fiction scholarship, in 1994.

[[Benton Harbor, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan

Benton Harbor is a city in Berrien County in the U.S. state of Michigan which is located southwest of Kalamazoo, and northwest of South Bend, Indiana.

In 2010, the population was 10,038 according to the census.

[[Koldo Aguirre]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2019 deaths, Spanish footballers, Spanish football managers

Luis María Aguirre Vidaurrázaga (27 April 1939 – 3 July 2019), better known as Koldo Aguirre, was a Spanish football midfielder and manager. He played 12 years for Athletic Bilbao, appearing in 297 competitive matches (61 goals scored) and winning two Copa del Rey trophies.

[[Jared Lorenzen]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, 2019 deaths, Infectious disease deaths in the United States, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from renal failure, American football quarterbacks, Indianapolis Colts players, New York Giants players, Sportspeople from Kentucky, People from Lexington, Kentucky

Jared Raymond Lorenzen (February 14, 1981 – July 3, 2019) was an American football quarterback and commissioner of the Ultimate Indoor Football League. He played college football at Kentucky and was signed by the New York Giants as an undrafted free agent in 2004. He played there until 2007. He later played for the Indianapolis Colts in 2008.

During his career, he received the nicknames Hefty Lefty and Pillsbury Throwboy because of his high weight for a quarterback and being left handed. He was born in Covington, Kentucky.

Lorenzen died on July 3, 2019 in Lexington, Kentucky from heart and kidney failure caused by an infection, aged 38.

[[Joel Lebowitz]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Holocaust survivors, American mathematicians, American physicians, American Jews, Ukrainian scientists, Ukrainian Jews

Joel L. Lebowitz (born May 10, 1930) is a Ukrainian-born American mathematical physicist. He is known for his outstanding works to statistical physics, statistical mechanics and many other fields of Mathematics and Physics. He was born in Tiachiv, Ukraine.

Lebowitz has published more than five hundred papers concerning statistical physics and science in general, and he is one of the founders and editors of the Journal of Statistical Physics. He survived the Holocaust and was sent to Auschwitz. 

He is a member of the United States National Academy of Sciences. In 2012 he became a fellow of the American Mathematical Society.

[[Arseny Mironov]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2019 deaths, Centenarians, Russian physicists, Russian engineers, Aviators

Arseny Mironov (25 December 1917 – 3 July 2019) was a Russian scientist, aerospace engineer and aviator. He was one of the oldest researchers in aircraft aerodynamics and flight testing. He was one of the Gromov Flight Research Institute directors (1981–1985). Mironov was the recipient of the Stalin Prize (1948) and USSR State Prize (1976), and an honourary citizen of Zhukovsky. He turned 100 in December 2017. Mironov was born in Vladimir, Bolshevik Russia.

Mironov died on 3 July 2019 in Zhukovsky, Moscow Oblast, Russia at the age 101.

[[The Bourne Legacy (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2012 movies, American action movies, American spy movies, American thriller movies, English-language movies, Movies based on books, Drone movies

The Bourne Legacy is a 2012 American action spy movie directed by Tony Gilroy, and is the fourth installment in the series of movies adapted from the Jason Bourne novels originated by Robert Ludlum and continued by Eric Van Lustbader, being preceded by The Bourne Identity (2002), The Bourne Supremacy (2004), and The Bourne Ultimatum (2007). Although this movie has the same title as Van Lustbader's first Bourne novel, The Bourne Legacy, the actual screenplay bears little resemblance to the novel. Unlike the novel, which features Jason Bourne as the principal character, the movie centers on black ops agent Aaron Cross (played by Jeremy Renner), an original character. In addition to Renner, the film stars Rachel Weisz and Edward Norton.

[[José Luis Álvarez]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Mayors of Madrid

José Luis Álvarez y Álvarez (born 4 April 1930) is a Spanish politician. He was born in Madrid. He was Madrid's mayor from March 3, 1978 to January 5, 1979. Afterwards, he worked under the ministries of Adolfo Suárez and Leopoldo Calvo Sotelo as Minister of Transport and Communications from 1980 to 1981 and as Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food from 1981 to 1982.

[[Max Collins (actress)]]

CATEGORIES: 1992 births, Living people, American movie actors, American television actors, Filipino actors, Models from California, Actors from California

Max Collins-Magno (born Isabelle Abiera Collins-Magno; August 28, 1992) is an American-Filipino actress and model. She was born in California, but raised in Boracay, Philippines. She hosted Wowowee, at the same time she appeared as Veronica in the afternoon TV series Rosalka.

[[Arturo Fernández Rodríguez]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2019 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors, Spanish stage actors, Spanish voice actors

Arturo Fernández Rodríguez (21 February 1929 – 4 July 2019) was a Spanish actor. He appeared in many stage performances and movies from 1954 until his retirement in April 2019. He was born in Gijón, Asturias, Spain. His best known works include Red Cross Girls, College Boarding House and The Locket.

[[DZOZ-DTV]]

CATEGORIES: Filipino television stations, Metro Manila

DZOZ-DTV (Light TV 33) is a 

commercial religious UHF digital television station of ZOE Broadcasting Network, Inc. (ZBNI). Its studios are located at Strata 2000 Bldg., F. Ortigas Jr. Avenue, Ortigas Center, Pasig City. Its transmitter is located at Light TV Transmitter Tower, Sumulong Highway, Barangay San Roque, Antipolo City, Rizal.

[[Dinghy sailing]]

CATEGORIES: Boats, Sailing, Water transport

Dinghy sailing is sailing in small boats usually with a centreboard or a keel. The boat is sailed using the crew for balance.

[[Oberramsern]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn

Oberramsern is a former municipality in the district of Bucheggberg, in the canton of Solothurn, Switzerland.  On 1 January 2010 the former municipalities of Balm bei Messen, Brunnenthal and Oberramsern merged into the municipality of Messen.

[[Lüterswil-Gächliwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Lüterswil-Gächliwil is a municipality in the district Bucheggberg, in the canton of Solothurn, Switzerland. It was created in 1994 from the merger of the two former municipalities of Lüterswil and Gächliwil.

[[Bibern, Solothurn]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn

Bibern is a former municipality in the district of Bucheggberg, in the canton of Solothurn, Switzerland.  On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Aetigkofen, Aetingen, Bibern, Brügglen, Gossliwil, Hessigkofen, Küttigkofen, Kyburg-Buchegg, Mühledorf and Tscheppach merged to form the new municipality of Buchegg.

[[Gossliwil]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn

Gossliwil is a former municipality in the district Bucheggberg, in the canton of Solothurn, Switzerland.  On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Gossliwil, Tscheppach, Brügglen, Aetingen, Aetigkofen, Bibern, Hessigkofen, Mühledorf, Küttigkofen, Kyburg-Buchegg merged to form the new municipality of Buchegg.

[[Hessigkofen]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn

Hessigkofen is a former municipality in the district Bucheggberg, in the canton of Solothurn, Switzerland.  Since 1 January 2014, Hessigkofen belongs to the new municipality of Buchegg.

[[Kyburg-Buchegg]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn

Kyburg-Buchegg is a former municipality of the district Bucheggberg in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.  On 1 January 2014 the former municipalities of Aetigkofen, Aetingen, Bibern, Brügglen, Gossliwil, Hessigkofen, Küttigkofen, Kyburg-Buchegg, Mühledorf and Tscheppach merged to form the new municipality of Buchegg.

[[Bargen]]

Bargen can mean:

[[Nuglar-St. Pantaleon]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Nuglar-St. Pantaleon is a municipality in the district of Dorneck in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Witterswil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Witterswil is a municipality of the district Dorneck in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Drei Höfe]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 establishments in Switzerland, Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Drei Höfe is a municipality in the district of Wasseramt in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland. On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Heinrichswil-Winistorf and Hersiwil merged to form the new municipality of Drei Höfe.

[[Hersiwil]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn

Hersiwil is a former municipality of the district Wasseramt in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland. On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Heinrichswil-Winistorf and Hersiwil merged to form the new municipality of Drei Höfe.

[[Hauenstein-Ifenthal]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Hauenstein-Ifenthal is a municipality of the district Gösgen in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Raggal]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Raggal is a municipality in the district of Bludenz in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg.

[[List of zoos in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Zoos in the United States, Lists

[[Bruce Wallrodt]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2019 deaths, Australian athletes, Sportspeople from Western Australia

Bruce Wallrodt, AUS (26 September 1951 – 2 July 2019) was an Australian Paralympic athlete. He competed at five Paralympic Games and won nine medals, four of them gold. He was born in Bunbury, Western Australia.

In the 1988 Seoul Games, Wallrodt won two gold medals and a bronze medal in the Men's Discus 2 event.

Wallrodt died on 2 July 2019 at the age of 67.

[[Eva Mozes Kor]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2019 deaths, Jewish American writers, American human rights activists, American educators, Holocaust survivors, Romanian Jews, Romanian writers, Writers from Indiana, Naturalized citizens of the United States, People from Terre Haute, Indiana

Eva Mozes Kor (January 31, 1934 – July 4, 2019) was a Romanian-American writer and activist. She was a survivor of the Holocaust. Along with her twin sister Miriam, Kor was experimented by Josef Mengele at the Auschwitz during World War II. She lost both of her parents and two older sisters to the Holocaust. She was born in Porț, Romania.

Kor lived in Terre Haute, Indiana. She founded CANDLES Holocaust Museum and Education Center, which teaches children about the Holocaust. Kor died in Krakow, Poland while on an educational trip to Auschwitz on July 4, 2019 at the age of 85.

[[Super Mario Maker 2]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 video games, Mario platform games, Mario video games, Nintendo Switch games, Nintendo video games, Platform games, Video games developed in Japan

Super Mario Maker 2 is a 2019 Nintendo Switch side-scrolling platform game released on June 28, 2019. It is the sequel to the 2015 Nintendo 3DS and Wii U game Super Mario Maker. It was announced on February 13, 2019 to be released on June 28. The gameplay is larger retained from that of its predecessor, in which players create their own custom courses using assets from various games across the Mario franchise and share them online. Super Mario Maker 2 introduces new features and course assets, including a new course style and assets based on Super Mario 3D World.

Super Mario Maker 2 sold 3.93 million copies as of 30 Sep 2019.

[[Chris Cline]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2019 deaths, Accidental deaths, Aviation deaths, American billionaires, American philanthropists, Businesspeople from West Virginia

Christopher Cline (July 5, 1958 – July 4, 2019) was an American billionaire businessman and philanthropist. He was most active in the coal mining industry. He is said to have have been responsible for reviving the Illinois coal industry. As of March 2013, he was the majority owner of Foresight Reserves LP, with the headquarters in St. Louis, Missouri. He had a net worth of US$1.8 billion at the time of his death in 2019.

Cline was born in Beckley, West Virginia. He was married twice and had four children.

On July 4, 2019, one day before his 61st birthday, Cline died in a helicopter crash in the Abaco Islands of the Bahamas.

[[Ilkka Nummisto]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2019 deaths, 1964 Summer Olympics, 1968 Summer Olympics, 1972 Summer Olympics, 1976 Summer Olympics, Finnish Olympians

Ilkka Kalevi Nummisto (24 April 1944 – 29 June 2019) was a Finnish sprint canoer. He competed at four Summer Olympics (1964, 1968, 1972 and 1976). His best Olympic finish was fifth in the K-4 1000 m event in Mexico City, 1968. After his Olympic career finished, he appeared in the finals of the World's Strongest Man competition five times between 1986 and 1992.

Nummisto was born in Turku. He died on 29 June 2019, at the age of 75.

[[Boat keel]]

CATEGORIES: Ship building

On boats and ships, the keel extends below a boat along the central line. When a boat or ship is being built then the keel laying down is the first step and the date is noted as the start of the job. Only the launching of the ship more important.

[[Johnny Briceño]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Belize, Current national leaders

Juan Antonio Briceño, commonly known as Johnny Briceño (born 17 July 1960), is a Belizean politician. He has been the Prime Minister of Belize since 12 November 2020. He is the leader of the People's United Party (PUP) since 2016. 

He was Leader of the Opposition from 2008 to 2011 and from 2016 to 2020. From 1998 to 2007, he was Deputy Prime Minister under Prime Minister Said Musa.

[[Jeet Gannguli]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1977 births, Movie score composers, People from Baranagar, Baranagore Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama High School alumni

Jeet Gannguli (born Chandrajeet Ganguly, Bengali: চন্দ্রজিৎ গাঙ্গুলী on 24 May 1977), popularly known as Jeet, is a score composer of Bengali and Hindi movies. Ganguly is a music director in Bollywood, scoring music for films.

[[Lost Lake (Santiam Pass, Linn County, Oregon)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Oregon, Lakes of the United States

Lost Lake is a lake in the Willamette National Forest, in Oregon, in the United States. It is known for the way that the water level changes during the year. There are lava tubes in the bottom of the lake. During the summer, the water drains out of the lake through these tubes. In some years, this leaves the lake with very little water, turning it mostly into a meadow. Starting in the autumn the lake begins to fill again. This happens as the amount of water coming in to the lake from streams and melting snow is higher than that flowing out. By spring, it has its highest water level. 

The water that drains through the tubes is thought to go to nearby Clear Lake.

[[Bebearia ashantina]]

CATEGORIES: Nymphalidae

Bebearia ashantina is a butterfly in the family Nymphalidae. It is also known as Ashanti forester. It is found in Ivory Coast and Ghana. The habitat consists of forests.

Adults are attracted to fallen fruit.

[[Numberjacks]]

CATEGORIES: BBC Television programmes

Numberjacks is a children's television series aimed at young children and is shown regularly on BBC2 and CBeebies in the UK.    It is produced by Open Mind Productions for the BBC and features a mixture of computer-generated animation and live action.

[[Lawrence Journal-World]]

CATEGORIES: Lawrence, Kansas, Newspapers

The Lawrence Journal-World is a newspaper in Lawrence, Kansas, United States, by Ogden Newspapers. They publish every day.

[[Sankt Gallenkirch]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Sankt Gallenkirch is a municipality in the district of Bludenz in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg.

[[Bürs]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Bürs is a municipality in the district of Bludenz in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg.

[[Stüsslingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Stüsslingen is a municipality of the district of Gösgen in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Kammersrohr]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Kammersrohr is a municipality in the district Lebern in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Selzach]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Selzach is a municipality in the district Lebern in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Holderbank, Solothurn]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Holderbank is a municipality in the district Thal in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Welschenrohr]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Welschenrohr (Rosières) is a municipality in the district Thal in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Zullwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Zullwil is a municipality in the district Thierstein in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Street newspaper]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers

Street newspapers (or street papers) are newspapers or magazines sold by homeless or poor people. They are created mostly to help these people. Most of these types of newspapers have information and news about homelessness and poverty-related issues. They also want to help homeless communities make friends. Street papers want to give these people job opportunities and a voice in their community. Many of these papers are sometimes produced and written by homeless people.

[[Change of Heart (street paper)]]

CATEGORIES: Lawrence, Kansas, Newspapers

Change of Heart is a street newspaper produced and sold in Lawrence, Kansas. It is published every 3 months. It was created by Craig Sweets in late 1996. who says the idea of starting a street newspaper was given to him by Michael Stoops. Stoops is the director of the National Coalition for the Homeless. The paper is a member of the North American Street Newspaper Association (NASNA), and it is the only street newspaper in Kansas.

The paper says 1200 people read it every 3 months. In 1999, the NASNA said the paper was the "Best New Street Newspaper in North America". In 1999, the paper was a single page printed on both sides and published using local churches' photocopiers. Since then, the paper is 10 pages long, and it has its own staff and computers.

[[Heinrichswil-Winistorf]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn

Heinrichswil-Winistorf is a former municipality in the district Wasseramt in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Haskell-Baker Wetlands]]

CATEGORIES: Lawrence, Kansas, Wetlands

The Haskell-Baker Wetlands is a nature preserve and wetlands. It is 640 big, and it is south of Lawrence, Kansas, United States. It is grouped with the Wakarusa River. It is maintained by levees and flood controls built in the 1990s.

Baker University owns 573 acres, which is most of the wetlands; Haskell Indian Nations University owns 27 acres; the Kansas Department of Wildlife and Parks owns 20 acres; the University of Kansas owns 20 acres.

In 1969, the National Park Service said the wetlands is a National Natural Landmark. The wetlands has 413 species of plants, 265 species of birds, and 61 other vertebrate species.

[[Horriwil]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Horriwil is a municipality in the district Wasseramt in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Baker University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Kansas, 1858 establishments in Kansas Territory

Baker University is a private Christian university in Baldwin City, Kansas. It was created in 1858. Tt was the first university officially created in Kansas. It is grouped with the United Methodist Church.

About 3,000 students go to Baker University every year.

[[Hüniken]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Hüniken is a municipality in the district of Wasseramt in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Steinhof]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn

Steinhof is a former municipality of the district of Wasseramt in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland. It is an enclave in the canton of Bern.  The municipality of Steinhof merged on 1 January 2012 into the municipality of Aeschi.

[[Subingen]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of the canton of Solothurn

Subingen is a municipality of the district of Wasseramt in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland.

[[Niedererlinsbach]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn, Villages in Switzerland

Niedererlinsbach is a former municipality in the district Gösgen in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland. On 1 January 2006 the former municipalities of Niedererlinsbach and Obererlinsbach became the municipality of Erlinsbach.

[[Obererlinsbach]]

CATEGORIES: Former municipalities of Solothurn, Villages in Switzerland

Obererlinsbach is a former municipality in the district Gösgen in the canton of Solothurn in Switzerland. On 1 January 2006 the former municipalities of Niedererlinsbach and Obererlinsbach became the municipality of Erlinsbach.

[[Norman Geisler]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from cerebral thrombosis, American theologians, American Christians, Writers from Michigan

Norman Leo Geisler (July 21, 1932 – July 1, 2019) was an American Christian systematic theologian and philosopher.  He was the co-founder of two evangelical seminaries (Veritas Evangelical Seminary and Southern Evangelical Seminary). He was a co-creator of Chicago Statement on Biblical Inerrancy. Geisler was born in Warren, Michigan.

Geisler died of cerebral thrombosis at a hospital in Charlotte, North Carolina on July 1, 2019 at the age of 86.

[[Warren, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan

Warren is a city in Macomb County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The 2010 census places the city's population at 134,056. It is the third largest city in Michigan.

[[Malva Landa]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2019 deaths, Ukrainian writers, Russian writers, Centenarians, Human rights activists, Geologists

Malva Noyevna Landa (Ма́льва Но́евна Ла́нда; 4 August 1918 – 3 July 2019) was a Ukrainian-born Russian geologist and human rights activist. She wrote many books about the human rights movement in the Soviet Union. She was a member of the Moscow Helsinki Group from 1976 until her death. She was awarded the Order of the Cross of Vytis (Lithuania, January 8, 2003). Landa was born in Odessa, Ukrainian State.

Landa died on 3 July 2019 in Haifa, Israel at the age of 100.

[[Pierre Lhomme]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Cinematographers, French movie directors, French screenwriters

Pierre Lhomme (5 April 1930 – 4 July 2019) was a French cinematographer. He was known for his works were Cyrano de Bergerac, Lovers Like Us and Deadly Circuit. Lhomme was born in Boulogne-Billancourt, France. He retired in 2003.

Lhomme died on 4 July 2019 in Arles, France at the age of 89.

[[Ugo Gregoretti]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Italian movie directors, Italian movie actors, Italian screenwriters, Television directors, Italian television presenters, Actors from Rome

Ugo Gregoretti (28 September 1930 – 5 July 2019) was an Italian movie, television and stage director, actor, screenwriter, author and television host. He directed 20 movies from 1956 until 1990. He was born in Rome. Gregoretti was known for his works Ro.Go.Pa.G., Omicron and Beautiful Families.

Gregoretti died on 5 July 2019 in Rome at the age of 88.

[[Paolo Vinaccia]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Italian musicians, Italian composers, Drummers, Jazz musicians, People from Rome, People from Oslo

Paolo Vinaccia (27 March 1954 – 5 July 2019) was an Italian-Norwegian composer, jazz drummer, and percussionist. He became a Norwegian citizen in 1979. Vinaccia was born in Rome.

Vinaccia worked with Terje Rypdal, Bendik Hofseth, Jan Eggum, Knut Reiersrud (in Four Roosters), Gisle Torvik, Ole Amund Gjersvik and Jonas Fjeld. He has toured and recorded with Palle Mikkelborg, Mike Mainieri, Jon Christensen and David Darling. With Arild Andersen, he performed at the London Jazz Festival in 2008.

Vinaccia died on 5 July 2019 from pancreatic cancer in Oslo at the age of 65.

[[Kazuhiro Kiyohara]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Japanese baseball players, People from Osaka Prefecture, Living people

Kazuhiro Kiyohara is a former Japanese professional baseball player, having played in Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball league for 23 seasons. He retired following the 2008 season. Kiyohara is often referred as "The Uncrowned King" because he never won a major batting title, even though he was one of NPB's greatest hitters. He surpassed 2,000 hits, 500 home runs, and 1,500 RBIs.

[[Midco]]

CATEGORIES: Internet service providers of the United States

Midco (until 2016, was called Midcontinent Communications) is a regional cable provider. They give a triple play service of Cable television, Internet and telephone service. They give this service for North Dakota, South Dakota, some of Minnesota, and some cities in Kansas and Wisconsin. 

[[Lawrence station (Kansas)]]

CATEGORIES: Lawrence, Kansas, National Register of Historic Places in Douglas County, Kansas, Buildings and structures in Lawrence, Kansas, Railway stations in the United States

Lawrence (also called the Santa Fe Depot or the Santa Fe Station) is a train station in Lawrence, Kansas, United States. Amtrak's Southwest Chief train uses it. The Lawrence station was built in 1956 by the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway to replace the Atchison Topeka Santa Fe Station built in 1883. That station was damaged by the 1951 flood. It was dedicated on February 7, 1956. The Mid-century modern station is on the National Register of Historic Places.

The station was added to the Register of Kansas Historic Places on November 18, 2017. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on January 5, 2018.

It was designed by Warren Jones and Warren Comen.

[[Rail freight transport]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport

Rail freight transport is using railroads and trains to transport cargo. They don't transport human passengers. Trains may transport bulk material, intermodal containers, general freight or special freight in cars designed for a specific reason. Rail freight practices and economics are different by country and region.

[[BNSF Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United States, American transport companies

The BNSF Railway Company is the biggest freight railroad network in North America. BNSF has 44,000 employees. They are one of ten Class I railroads. They have 32,500 of track in 28 states. They have more than 8,000 locomotives. It has three transcontinental routes that have rail connections between the western and eastern United States.

[[Union Pacific Railroad]]

CATEGORIES: Trains, American transport companies, 1862 establishments in the United States

Union Pacific Railroad (or legally Union Pacific Railroad Company and simply Union Pacific) is a freight-hauling railroad that has 8,500 locomotives. They have over 32,100 route-miles in 23 U.S. states west of Chicago and New Orleans. The Union Pacific Railroad system is the biggest in the United States. They are one of the world's biggest transportation companies.

[[Lawrence Transit]]

CATEGORIES: Lawrence, Kansas, Transport in the United States

The Lawrence Transit System is the city public transportation agency in Lawrence, Kansas. It works together with the City of Lawrence and the University of Kansas. They have services from Monday through Saturday from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. on most routes. On election days, rides are free of charge.

[[Kevin McAleenan]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Living people, United States Secretaries of Homeland Security, People from Honolulu

Kevin K. McAleenan (born September 5, 1971) is an American attorney and former government official who served as the Acting Secretary of Homeland Security from April 2019 through November 2019.

McAleenan resigned on October 11, 2019, with Trump stating that McAleenan wanted to "spend more time with his family and go to the private sector."

[[Hewing]]

CATEGORIES: Woodworking, Forestry

In woodworking, hewing is the use of an axe to make a log into lumber. It is a very old way of making lumber, and was used in ancient times. Before the industrial era it was the normal way to make wood beams. Today it has mostly been replaced by sawmills, but is in some use. 

[[Zach Neal]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, American baseball players, Los Angeles Dodgers players, Oakland Athletics players, Sportspeople from South Carolina, People from Columbia, South Carolina, Living people

Zachary Sheridan Neal (born November 9, 1988) is an American professional baseball pitcher for the Saitama Seibu Lions of Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB). He previously played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Oakland Athletics and the Los Angeles Dodgers.

[[Dynamics]]

CATEGORIES: Basic physics ideas

Dynamics is the study of forces and their effects on motion over time. It is a branch of classical mechanics.  

Isaac Newton developed three laws of motion that are fundamental to dynamics.

Some people consider dynamics to be made up of kinematics and kinetics. Others consider dynamics and kinematics to be separate, and do not use the word kinetics. Under the second view, kinematics is about describing how a system is at the moment, and dynamics is about how and why the system changes with time.

[[Mitsuo Itoh]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2019 deaths, Japanese sportspeople, Motorcycle racers

Mitsuo Itoh was a Japanese motorcycle road racer. He started his Grand Prix career in 1961, and was active until 1967. He competed for Suzuki. He was a starter in 29 races, winning two and having a podium finish 13 times. He won the 1963 Isle of Man 50cc ultra-lightweight TT and the 1967 50cc Japanese Grand Prix (his final race).

Itoh died on 3 July 2019, at the age of 82.

[[Vivian Perlis]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2019 deaths, American historians, Disease-related deaths in Connecticut, Musicologists, Writers from Brooklyn

Vivian L. Perlis (April 26, 1928 – July 4, 2019) was an American musicologist. She was the founder and director of Yale University's Oral History of American Music. She founded the oral history project in 1969. She also notably wrote Charles Ives Remembered.  She first started working at Yale University as a reference librarian in 1959. She retired in 2010.

Perlis was born in Brooklyn, New York and grew up in Long Island. She was married to Stanford James Perlis, and had three children.

Perlis died in Weston, Connecticut on July 4, 2019 after an illness. She was 91.

[[Shiboprosad Mukherjee]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Living people, Indian movie directors, People from Baranagar, Baranagore Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama High School alumni

Shiboprosad Mukherjee (born 20 May 1974) is an Indian Bengali filmmaker, writer and actor.

[[List of Salman Khan's awards and nominations]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of awards and nominations, Salman Khan

Salman Khan is an Indian film actor and producer. In 1999, Khan won the Filmfare Award for Best Supporting Actor for his extended guest appearance in Kuch Kuch Hota Hai (1998). In 2011, he won the Screen Award for Best Actor for his performance in Dabangg and in 2012, he won the Best Actor Popular Choice for his performances in Ek Tha Tiger and Dabangg 2. Eight of the films he has acted in, have accumulated gross earnings of over 100 worldwide. He played leading roles in five consecutive blockbusters including Dabangg, Ready, Bodyguard, Ek Tha Tiger, and Dabangg 2. He has starred in more than 80 Hindi films and thus far has established himself as a leading actor of Hindi cinema.

[[Marguerite Pindling]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Governors-General of the Bahamas

The Most Honourable Dame Marguerite, Lady Pindling, GBR (née McKenzie; born June 26, 1932) is a Bahamian politician. She was the Governor-General of the Bahamas from 8 July 2014 to 28 June 2019 She is the second female Governor-General of The Bahamas after Dame Ivy Dumont.

[[Cornelius A. Smith]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, Living people, Governors-General of the Bahamas, Ambassadors to the United States

Cornelius Alvin Smith (born 7 April 1937) is a Bahamian politician. He is the 10th and current Governor-General of the Bahamas since 28 June 2019.

Smith was the Ambassador to the United States starting in 2008. He was also Minister of Transport, and Aviation of the Bahamas. In 2018, he was sworn in as the deputy Governor General.

[[Abhishek Chatterjee]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1964 births, Indian actors, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, People from Baranagar, Baranagore Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama High School alumni, India-related lists

Abhishek Chatterjee (অভিষেক চ্যাটার্জী) (born 30 April 1964) is an Indian actor who is known for his work in Bengali cinema.

[[Center for Immigration Studies]]

CATEGORIES: Think tanks, 1986 establishments in the United States, Washington, D.C., Immigration

The Center for Immigration Studies (CIS) is an American research organization and think tank that supports ending illegal immigration and lowering the amount of immigration in the United States. It was founded in 1985 by a professor named Otis Graham Jr. The Center describes itself as a group that is "providing immigration policymakers, the academic community, news media, and concerned citizens with reliable information about the social, economic, environmental, security, and fiscal consequences of legal and illegal immigration into the United States."

The Center is led by Mark Krikorian. Krikorian believes that America should have a stronger border to stop illegal immigration.

[[Tathagata Mukherjee]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1985 births, Indian actors, Indian movie actors, Indian television actors, Baranagore Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama High School alumni

Tathagata Mukherjee (born 15 May 1985) is an Indian film and television actor and an independent filmmaker based in Kolkata. He played the main lead in many Bengali soap operas.

[[List of presidents of Rwanda]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents (government), African politicians, Rwanda

This article lists the presidents of Rwanda since the creation of the office in 1961 (during the Rwandan Revolution), to the present day. As specified in the constitution, the President functions as the head of state of Rwanda, and possesses broad executive powers. The officeholder is elected by popular vote every seven years, and appoints the Prime Minister and all other members of Cabinet.

A total of four people have served as President of Rwanda (not counting two Acting Presidents). The current President is Paul Kagame, since 24 March 2000.

[[Centron Corporation]]

CATEGORIES: Lawrence, Kansas, Movie studios, 1947 establishments in the United States

Centron Corporation was a big industrial and educational movie production company. They specialized in classroom and corporate 16mm movies and VHS videocassettes.

[[Herk Harvey]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1996 deaths, American actors

Harold Arnold "Herk" Harvey (June 3, 1924 – April 3, 1996) was an American movie director, screenwriter, actor and movie producer.

[[Carnival of Souls]]

CATEGORIES: American movies, American independent movies

Carnival of Souls is a 1962 American independent horror movie. It was written, produced, and directed by Herk Harvey, and starring Candace Hilligoss. The story is about Mary Henry, a young woman who had a car accident. She moves to a new city, but she can't fit in. She becomes curious about the pavilion of an abandoned carnival. The director Harvey is also in the movie as a creepy stranger who follows her a lot.

It was filmed in Lawrence, Kansas and Salt Lake City. Carnival of Souls was filmed on a budget of $33,000.

[[Cult following]]

CATEGORIES: Popular culture

A cult following is a group of fans who are very devoted to a work of culture. It is often called a cult classic. A movie, book, musical artist, television series or video game, among other things, has a cult following when it has a small but very passionate fanbase. A common thing of cult followings is the emotional attachment the fans it. They often say they are part of a community.

Many cult fans express their devotion with a level of irony when describing entertainment that falls under this realm, in that something is so bad, it's good. Sometimes, these cult followings are actually camp followings. Fans may become involved in a subculture of fandom. They may do this either through conventions, online communities or through activities such as writing series-related fiction. They may also make costumes, replica prop and model building, or creating their own audio or video creations from the formats and characters.

[[Cult movie]]

CATEGORIES: Popular culture, Movies

A cult film or cult movie, also called a cult classic, is a movie that has a cult following. Cult movies are known for their devoted, passionate fanbase. It may have an elaborate subculture that may do repeated viewings, quoting dialogue, and audience participation.

[[Takeover]]

CATEGORIES: Business

In business, a takeover or acquisition happens when one company buys another company. The company that is the one buying is called the "acquirer" or the "bidder" and the one that is being bought is called the "target".

There are four types of takeovers: friendly, hostile, reverse, or back-flip takeovers. Friendly takeovers happen when the people in charge of the company agree with being taken over. Hostile takeovers happen when they don't agree. Reverse takeovers are when a private company takes over a .. Back-flip takeovers happen when the acquiring company becomes a part of the target company.

[[Extracurricular activity]]

CATEGORIES: Education

An extracurricular activity or extra academic activity (EAA) is an activity, performed by students, that is not part of the normal curriculum of school, college or university education.

These activities are often voluntary (as opposed to mandatory), social, philanthropic, and often involve other people of the same age. Students and staff run these activities under faculty sponsorship. Activities created by students, such as independent newspapers, are also very common.

[[Student publication]]

CATEGORIES: Education, Media

A student publication is a type of media such as a newspaper, magazine, television show, or radio station that is created by students at a school. They often have news about their city and school, but they may also have news on national or international events too. Most student publications are either part of a curricular class or run as an extracurricular activity.

[[Ovillers-la-Boisselle]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Somme

Ovillers-la-Boisselle is a commune. It is in the Somme department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.

[[Nenzing]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Nenzing is a market town in the district of Bludenz in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg.

[[João Gilberto]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, Brazilian musicians, Brazilian singers, Guitarists, Grammy Award winners, Singer-songwriters

João Gilberto Prado Pereira de Oliveira (10 June 1931 – 6 July 2019) was a Brazilian singer-songwriter and guitarist. He is known for developing the music genre of bossa nova in the late 1950s. He wrote the first bossa nova song, titled "Bim-Bom". Gilberto and Antônio Carlos Jobim were helpful in making bossa nova popular. In 1964, Gilberto and American saxophonist Stan Getz released the album Getz/Gilberto. The album won the Grammy Award for Record of the Year.

Gilberto was born in Juazeiro, Bahia. On 6 July 2019, he died after an illness at his apartment in Rio de Janeiro. He was 88.

[[Arman Kirakossian]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 deaths, 1956 births, Ambassadors to the United States, Armenian politicians, Armenian historians, Ambassadors to the United Kingdom

Arman Kirakossian (Արման Կիրակոսյան; 10 September 1956 – 6 July 2019) was an Armenian diplomat and historian. At the time of his death in July 2019, he was Ambassador of Armenia to the United Kingdom since November 2018. He was also Ambassador of Armenia to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), as well as Greece (1994–1999), the United States (1999–2005) and Austria (2011–2018). He was acting Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1992 to 1993.

Kirakossian was born in Yerevan. He died on 6 July 2019 in London, at the age of 62.

[[Parviz Jalayer]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2019 deaths, 1964 Summer Olympics, 1968 Summer Olympics, Olympians, People from Tehran, Weightlifters

Parviz Jalayer (پرویز جلایر‎; 6 October 1939 – 6 July 2019) was an Iranian weightlifter. He was born in Tehran. He competed at the 1964 and 1968 Summer Olympics, winning silver medal in 1968. In 1966, he won a gold medal at the Asian Games and a bronze at the World Championships. After retiring from competitions, he worked as a weightlifting coach.

Jalayer died on 6 July 2019, at the age of 79.

[[Shukrayaan-1]]

[[Tribune Publishing]]

CATEGORIES: Publishing companies of the United States

Tribune Publishing Company (formerly Tronc, Inc.) is an American newspaper print and online media publishing company based in Chicago, Illinois. The company's portfolio includes the Chicago Tribune, the New York Daily News, The Baltimore Sun, the Orlando Sentinel, South Florida's Sun-Sentinel, the  Hartford Courant, more newspapers in Pennsylvania and Virginia, and websites.

[[Federal Highway Administration]]

CATEGORIES: United States Department of Transportation, 1967 establishments in the United States

The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) is a part of the United States Department of Transportation. It focuses on highway transportation. The Office of Road Inquiry, Office of Public Roads, and the Bureau of Public Roads used to do its duties.

[[Pearson plc]]

CATEGORIES: Publishing companies

Pearson plc is a British multinational publishing and education company. They are headquartered in London. It was created as a construction business in the 1840s, but they changed to publishing in the 1920s. It is the biggest education company, and it was once the largest book publisher in the world.

[[General Dynamics]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United States

General Dynamics Corporation (GD) is an American aerospace and defense multinational corporation. They were created by mergers and divestitures. As of 2019, it was the fifth-largest defense contractor in the United States, and the sixth-largest in the world, by sales. The company is number 92 in the 2019 Fortune 500 list of the biggest United States corporations by total revenue. It is headquartered in West Falls Church, Fairfax County, Virginia.

[[Dominique Mbonyumutwa]]

Dominique Mbonyumutwa (January 1921 – 26 July 1986) was a Rwandan politician who served on an interim basis as the first President of Rwanda, from 1 January to 1960 to 26 October 1961, following the abolition of the Rwandan monarchy. He took over by overthrowing the monarchy under King Kigali V Ndahindurwa and declaring Rwanda a republic, resulting in the 1961 referendum.

Mbonyumutwa was of Hutu ethnicity and was respected by the population both before and after his presidency. On 1 November 1959, while serving as a sous-chef (equivalent to a district mayor today), he was assaulted by a group of Tutsi youth in Byimana in Southern Province. This incident triggered the "social revolution" of November 1959, which eventually brought down the monarchy while driving hundreds of thousands of Rwandan Tutsi into decades-long exile.

Mbonyumutwa was succeeded as president by Grégoire Kayibanda a few months before Rwanda's independence. After his presidency, he maintained a position in Rwandan politics by serving as the  Vice President of Rwandan and holds an honorary position as Chancellor of National Orders in service of later president Juvenal Habyarimana.  He died in July 1986 in Belgium and was buried in Gitarama Stadium, the site where the Republic was proclaimed in 1961, as a recognition to the country. In 2010 his remains were exhumed and reburied in a public cemetery due to the plans to redevelop the stadium.

[[Osawatomie, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Miami County, Kansas

Osawatomie is a city in Miami County, Kansas, United States. it is 61 southwest of Kansas City. In 2010, 4,447 people lived there. Its name is a portmanteau from two streams nearby, the Osage and Potawatomie.

[[Kansas City Public Library]]

CATEGORIES: Libraries in the United States, Kansas City, Missouri, 1873 establishments in the United States

The Kansas City Public Library is a public library system in the Central Library in Kansas City, Missouri. It was created on December 5, 1873.

[[The Cat Returns]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s adventure movies, 2000s drama movies, 2000s fantasy movies, 2000s manga, 2002 movies, English-language movies, Japanese movies, Japanese-language movies, Manga series, Movies about animals, Movies about cats, Movies based on comics, Studio Ghibli

The Cat Returns is a 2002 Japanese fantasy adventure movie. It was directed by Hiroyuki Morita and produced by Studio Ghibli.

[[Rocco Siffredi]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, Living people, Italian movie actors, Italian movie directors, Italian movie producers, Pornographic actors, Pornographic movie directors, Pornographic movie producers

Rocco Siffredi (born Rocco Antonio Tano; 4 May 1964) is an Italian pornographic actor, director and producer of pornographic movies.

[[List of awards and nominations received by Rocco Siffredi]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of awards and nominations

The following is a list of awards and nominations received by Italian pornographic actor, director and producer Rocco Siffredi throughout his pornographic career.

[[Ashurst LLP]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United Kingdom, Law, 1822 establishments

Ashurst LLP is a multinational law firm headquartered in London, United Kingdom. 

Ashurst is the UK's 11th largest law firm by revenue, according to the latest Legal 100 table by Legal Business. It has 25 offices in 15 countries across Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East and North America and employs around 1,600 legal advisers.

Its principal business focus is mergers and acquisitions, corporate and structured finance. The firm also practices in other areas including investment funds, antitrust, energy, transport and infrastructure, intellectual property, IT, dispute resolution, financial services, tax, real estate, regulatory, telecommunication and employment.

[[King of Lesotho]]

CATEGORIES: Kings and queens, African politicians, Lesotho

[[Cameron Boyce]]

CATEGORIES: 1999 births, 2019 deaths, Actors from Los Angeles, California, American child actors, American movie actors, American dancers, American television actors, Jewish American actors, African American actors, American voice actors, Deaths from epilepsy, Deaths from seizure

Cameron Mica Boyce (May 28, 1999 – July 6, 2019) was an American actor, who appeared in a number of films and television shows through his career. He was known for his roles in the feature films Mirrors, Eagle Eye, Grown Ups, and Grown Ups 2, and for playing the character Carlos in the Descendants television films, as well as for his starring roles as Luke Ross on the Disney Channel comedy series Jessie, and as Conor on the Disney XD series Gamer's Guide to Pretty Much Everything.

[[List of prime ministers of Lesotho]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of prime ministers, Prime Ministers of Lesotho

This is a list of prime ministers of Lesotho since the creation of the post of Prime Minister of Lesotho in 1965, to the present day.

[[Antonio Alonso Martinez]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people

Antonio Alonso Martinez (born 29 April, 1963) is a Portuguese-Spanish painter and multidisciplinary artist based in Lisbon, Portugal. Martinez argues that humanity will find their own spiritual reality which has been the theme of his work since the mid-80s.

[[Ryan Driller]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Living people, American adult models, American LGBT sex industry people, American movie directors, American pornographic actors, Bisexual people, Former Christians, LGBT pornographic actors, Pornographic movie directors

Ryan Driller (born Adam Cuculich August 17, 1982) is an American pornographic actor, director, and model that has appeared in both straight and gay pornography.

[[Donetsk]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Ukraine

Donetsk is an important city in the eastern part of Ukraine, in the center of Donbass. Before the War in Donbass, which started 2014, about 1.1 million people lived in the city and its surroundings. Donetsk is important for the  industry in Ukraine. Before the war, it was the fifth-biggest city of the country. From 1924 to 1961, the city was called Stalino, before 1924 its name was Jusowka, named after its founder, John Hughes. Hughes founded a metallurgic factory in 1869. The factory soon developed into the city of modern-day Donetsk. Most people in Donetsk use Russian in everyday life. According to a census, about 48 were Ukrainians, and about 46 percent Rusians.

[[Ora Namir]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Ambassadors of Israel, Former Members of Knesset, Government ministers of Israel, HaAvoda politicians, Israeli military people, Jewish Israeli politicians, Jewish military people, Jewish women politicians

Ora Namir (אורה נמיר‎; 1 September 1930 – 7 July 2019) was an Israeli politician and diplomat. She was born in Hadera. During her political career, she was a member of the Alignment, the Israeli Labor Party and One Nation. She served as a member of the Knesset from 1974 to 1996. She held the positions of Minister of the Environment and Minister of Labour and Social Welfare during the 1990s. She was also the country's ambassador to China and Mongolia from 1996 to 2000.

Namir died in Tel Aviv on 7 July 2019, at the age of 88.

[[List of awards and nominations received by Ryan Driller]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of awards and nominations

Ryan Driller (born Adam Cuculich August 17, 1982) is an American pornographic actor, director, and model that has appeared in both straight and gay pornography.

[[2008 Lincolnshire earthquake]]

CATEGORIES: Earthquakes in the 2000s, 2008 in England, West Lindsey, February events

The 2008 Lincolnshire earthquake occurred on the 27th of February 2008. This earthquake was measured on the Richter scale at 3.9. People near the epicentre could feel this quake. Only one person was injured and there were no deaths due to the earthquake. This affected the United Kingdom. The depth of the earthquake was 18,600m. It is said to have happened at 23:14 on a Saturday and is estimated to have lasted for 10 seconds. It was mainly felt in Lincolnshire and Hull.

[[Tom Thabane]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Prime Ministers of Lesotho, Living people

Thomas Motsoahae "Tom" Thabane (born 28 May 1939) is a Mosotho politician who was Prime Minister of Lesotho from June 2017 until May 2020. Previously he was Prime Minister from June 2012 to March 2015. He is leader of the All Basotho Convention (ABC) political party.

In 2020, Thabane came under pressure to step down due to his alleged involvement in his ex-wife's murder. Thabane resigned on 20 May 2020. Finance minister Moeketsi Majoro succeeded him.

[[Bartholomäberg]]

CATEGORIES: Cities and towns in Vorarlberg

Bartholomäberg is a municipality in the district of Bludenz in the Austrian state of Vorarlberg.

[[Sutopo Purwo Nugroho]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, 2019 deaths, Civil servants, Deaths from lung cancer, Indonesian educators, Indonesian politicians

Sutopo Purwo Nugroho (7 October 1969 – 7 July 2019) was an Indonesian civil servant and academic. He was born in Boyolali, Central Java. He served as the head of public relations for the Indonesian National Board for Disaster Management (BNPB). He began working for the government in 1994, and became a full member of the BNPB in 2010. He also taught at the University of Indonesia, Bogor Agricultural Institute and Indonesia Defence University.

Nugroho died of lung cancer on 7 July 2019 in Guangzhou, China. He was 49.

[[Sardis]]

CATEGORIES: Achaemenid Empire, Ancient Greek cities, Former national capitals, History of Turkey, History of Persia, Roman Empire, Turkey, World Heritage Sites in Turkey

Sardis was one of the most important cities of the Persian Empire. It is in the modern-day Sart, near Salihli, in Turkey's Manisa Province.

[[Randy Bass]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 21st-century American politicians, American baseball players, Democrats (United States), Kansas City Royals players, Living people, Minnesota Twins players, Montreal Expos players, People from Lawton, Oklahoma, San Diego Padres players, Texas Rangers players

Randy William Bass (born March 13, 1954) is an American former baseball player. He is less notable for his career in Major League Baseball than for his success in Nippon Professional Baseball for the Hanshin Tigers.

Bass came up with the Minnesota Twins as a first baseman in 1977. In his six seasons in the Major Leagues he was never a day-to-day player, usually coming off the bench just to pinch hit. After his contract expired following the 1982 season, Bass signed with the Hanshin Tigers who made him their starting first baseman. Bass is often credited with single-handedly turning around the fortunes of the Tigers, which ultimately resulted in the team's pennant run and Japan Series title in 1985.

Bass adapted quickly to Japanese pitching, hitting 35 home runs in his first season in 1983, and became the Tigers' star slugger for several seasons. He won four consecutive league batting titles; in 1986, he nearly became the first player in Japan to bat .400, finishing the season with a .389 average. Bass won consecutive batting Triple Crowns (1985 and 1986).

[[Consumer]]

CATEGORIES: Economics, Business

In economics, a consumer is a person or organization that uses services, goods, or commodities.

[[U.S. Route 24]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 24 (US 24) is a United States highway. It was one of the first United States highways of 1926. It originally ran from Pontiac, Michigan, in the east to Kansas City, Missouri, in the west. Today, the highway's northern end is in Independence Township, Michigan. It is at an intersection with I-75. The western end is near Minturn, Colorado. 

It is at an intersection with I-70. The highway goes from north–south to east–west in Toledo, Ohio.

[[Wilco]]

CATEGORIES: Musical groups from Chicago

Wilco is an American alternative rock band from Chicago, Illinois. The band was created in 1994 by the last members of alternative country group Uncle Tupelo after singer Jay Farrar quit the band.

[[Kansas Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Kansas

The Kansas Department of Wildlife, Parks, and Tourism (KDWPT) is a state cabinet-level agency. It is led by a Secretary of Wildlife and Parks appointed by the Governor of Kansas. The Office of the Secretary is in Topeka. A seven-member, bipartisan commission, also appointed by the Governor, advises the Secretary and approves regulations about outdoor recreation and fish and wildlife in Kansas.  KDWPT has about 420 full-time employees in five divisions: Executive Services, Administrative Services, Fisheries and Wildlife, Law Enforcement, and Parks. At full staffing, KDWPT Law Enforcement Division (Kansas Game Wardens) has 83 positions.

[[Kansas State Cabinet]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Kansas

The Kansas State Cabinet is part of the executive branch of the government of the U.S. state of Kansas. It has the appointed leaders of the Kansas state executive departments.

[[King of Cambodia]]

CATEGORIES: Cambodian monarchs

This is a complete list of Kings, Heads of State and Presidents of Cambodia

[[List of unincorporated communities in Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Kansas, Kansas-related lists

List of unincorporated communities in the U.S. state of Kansas, sorted by county.  

On the right is a clickable map of the counties in Kansas.

[[Frederick, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Rice County, Kansas

Frederick is a city in Rice County, Kansas, United States.  In 2010, 18 people lived there.  In 2015, the U.S. Census Bureau estimated only 18 people lived there, though a newspaper estimated that 9 people lived there.

[[New Democrats]]

CATEGORIES: United States Democratic Party

New Democrats are a group with moderate political beliefs within the Democratic Party of the United States. They are sometimes called the "Third Way" group in the party. They often support both social liberalism and economic liberalism. New Democrats controlled the party from the late-1980s through the mid-2010s. They are also called centrist Democrats, Clinton Democrats, or moderate Democrats, 

[[Patricia Gallerneau]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2019 deaths, Cancer deaths in France, Politicians from Paris

Patricia Gallerneau (née Sérézat; 9 September 1954 – 7 July 2019) was a French politician. She was a member of the Democratic Movement. She was elected to the National Assembly in June 2017, serving until two days before her death in July 2019. She represented the department of Vendée. She was born in the 20th arrondissement of Paris.

Gallerneau died of cancer on 7 July 2019, at the age of 64.

[[Kyriakos Mitsotakis]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, People from Athens, Harvard University alumni, Stanford University alumni, Bankers, Government ministers of Greece, Prime Ministers of Greece, Leaders of political parties, Current national leaders

Kyriakos Mitsotakis (Κυριάκος Μητσοτάκης; born 4 March 1968) is a Greek politician. He became Prime Minister of Greece on 8 July 2019. Mitsotakis is the President of the New Democracy party.

He is the son of former Prime Minister Konstantinos Mitsotakis. Mitsotakis has been a member of the Hellenic Parliament since 2004. He served as Minister of Administrative Reform from 2013 to 2015.

[[List of prime ministers of Guinea]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Guinea

The following is a list of prime ministers of Guinea, since the establishment of the office of Prime Minister in 1972.

[[List of heads of state of Afghanistan]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of heads of state, Monarchs of Afghanistan, Presidents of Afghanistan, Asia-related lists

This article lists the heads of state of Afghanistan since the foundation of the first Afghan state, the Hotak Empire, in 1709.

[[Herman Boone]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Cancer deaths in Virginia, African-American sportspeople, American football coaches, Sportspeople from North Carolina, People from Rocky Mount, North Carolina

Herman Ike Boone (October 28, 1935 – December 18, 2019) was an American high school football coach. 

In 1971, he coached the T. C. Williams High School in Alexandria, Virginia to a successful season. The team went 13–0 during the season, achieved the state championship and were the national championship runners-up. The 2000 movie Remember the Titans is loosely based off the school's 1971 football season. Boone was played by Denzel Washington in the movie.

Boone was born in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. He was married to Carol Boone and had three daughters. Boone died on December 18, 2019 in Alexandria, Virginia at the age of 84. The cause was lung cancer.

[[R.I.P.D.]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 action movies, 2013 comedy movies, 2013 science fiction movies, 2010s action comedy movies, American science fiction movies, American action comedy movies, Movies directed by Robert Schwentke

R.I.P.D. or Rest in Peace Department is a 2013 American science fiction action comedy movie starring Jeff Bridges and Ryan Reynolds. Robert Schwentke directed the movie based on a screenplay adapted from the comic book R.I.P.D by Peter M. Lenkov. The movie also stars Kevin Bacon, Mary-Louise Parker, Stéphanie Szostak, and Marisa Miller.

[[2018–19 NHL season]]

The 2018–19 NHL season was the 102nd season of operation (101st season of play) of the National Hockey League. 31 teams competed in an 82-game regular season. The regular season began on October 3, 2018, and ended on April 6, 2019. The 2019 Stanley Cup playoffs began on April 10, 2019, and the Stanley Cup Finals concluded on June 12, 2019, with the St. Louis Blues winning their first Stanley Cup in the Finals over the Boston Bruins in seven games.

[[List of Old World monkey species]]

CATEGORIES: Old World monkeys

Old World monkeys are all simian primates. They are more closely related to the apes than they are to New World monkeys.

[[List of New World monkey species]]

CATEGORIES: New World monkeys

New World monkeys are all simian primates. They are endemic to South and Central America.

[[List of heads of state of Niger]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of heads of state, Presidents of Niger

This is a list of heads of state of Niger since the country gained independence from France in 1960 to the present day.

A total of nine people have served as head of state of Niger.

The current head of state of Niger is the President of the Republic Mahamadou Issoufou, since 7 April 2011.

[[List of presidents of Burundi]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Burundi, Lists of heads of state

This article lists the presidents of Burundi since the formation of the post of President of Burundi in 1966 (following the November coup d'état), to the present day.

A total of eight people have served as President of Burundi (not counting one Acting President and one head of state in rebellion). Additionally, one person, Pierre Buyoya, has served on two non-consecutive occasions.

Pierre Nkurunziza was president, elected in 2005, however he died in office in 2020.

[[List of presidents of Guinea]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Guinea

The following is a list of presidents of Guinea, since the country gained independence from France in 1958 (after rejecting to join the French Community in a constitutional referendum).

[[List of colonial governors of Ruanda-Urundi]]

CATEGORIES: Ruanda-Urundi

This is a list of European colonial administrators responsible for the territory of Ruanda-Urundi, an area equivalent to modern-day Rwanda and Burundi. Ruanda-Urundi formed part of German East Africa until it was captured by Belgian forces during World War I. After that, the territory became a League of Nations mandate, and later a United Nations trust territory, under Belgian control, until 1962 when the constituent parts of the territory became independent.

For residents of the subregion of Ruanda, see List of colonial residents of Rwanda.

For residents of the subregion of Urundi, see List of colonial residents of Burundi.

[[Drimys winteri]]

CATEGORIES: Magnoliopsida

Drimys winteri (Winter's bark or canelo) is a Chilean tree from (Winteraceae).

Drimys has six species, including D.andina, D.confertifolia, D.winteri, D fernandeziana 

Pseudowintera is closed to them.

Foikeulia razowskii, a species of Tortricidae, feeds on leaves of D.winteri

[[President of the United Arab Emirates]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of the United Arab Emirates, Lists of heads of state

The President of the United Arab Emirates is the head of state of the United Arab Emirates. Officially, he is elected every five years by the Federal Supreme Council, but because the ruler of Abu Dhabi customarily also holds the presidency of the UAE, the office is de facto hereditary. The President is also Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces and Chairman of the Supreme Council and Supreme Petroleum Council.

The current President is Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. Sheikh Khalifa became President on 3 November 2004, following the death of his father, Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan.

[[Port Arthur Marrs]]

CATEGORIES: Ice hockey teams in Ontario, Thunder Bay

The Port Arthur Marrs were a junior ice hockey team that played in Port Arthur, Ontario (now part of the city of Thunder Bay).  They were named for trucking company and sponsor W.H. Marr, Ltd., and contested the 1967 Memorial Cup, which they lost to the Toronto Marlboros.

[[Gary Duncan]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2019 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, American rock guitarists, American rock singers, Deaths from seizure, Musicians from San Diego, California, Singers from San Diego, California

Gary Duncan (born Gary Ray Grubb, September 4, 1946 – June 29, 2019), also known as Gary Cole, was an American guitarist and singer. He is best remembered as a member of San Francisco psychedelic rock group Quicksilver Messenger Service. He was also a member of the Ratz and the Brogues. Duncan was born in San Diego, California and grew up in Woodland.

In June 2019, Duncan had a seizure after he had a "severe fall and hit his head." He died on June 29, 2019 in Woodland, California. He was 72.

[[Baldwin City, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Douglas County, Kansas, Santa Fe Trail

Baldwin City is a city in Douglas County, Kansas, United States. It is about 12 south of Lawrence. It is about 15 west of Gardner. In 2010, 4,515 people lived there.  The city has Baker University. It is Kansas's oldest four-year university.

[[Namesake]]

CATEGORIES: Names

A namesake is a person named after another person. In general, a thing (such as a company, place, ship, building, or idea) named after a person or thing that first had the name.

[[Jefferson, North Carolina]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in North Carolina, County seats in North Carolina

Jefferson is a town in Ashe County, North Carolina, United States. In 2010, 1,611 people lived there. It is the county seat of Ashe County.

[[Gretna, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Louisiana, Parish seats in Louisiana

Gretna is the second-largest city in Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, United States. Gretna is on the west bank of the Mississippi River. It is just east and across the river from uptown New Orleans. It is part of the New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area. In 2010, 17,736 people lived there.

[[Collier's Encyclopedia]]

CATEGORIES: Encyclopedias

Collier's Encyclopedia (full title: Collier's Encyclopedia with Bibliography and Index) was a United States-based general encyclopedia. It was published by Crowell, Collier and Macmillan. It said it was "a scholarly, systematic, continuously revised summary of the knowledge that is most significant to mankind". Many people believed it was one of the three major contemporary English-language general encyclopedias, together with Encyclopedia Americana and Encyclopædia Britannica. They three were sometimes collectively called "the ABCs".

[[Tongue-in-cheek]]

CATEGORIES: Figures of speech

The idiom tongue-in-cheek is used about a statement that is funny or sarcastic. It is not meant to be taken seriously.

[[Political party strength in Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Kansas

The following table indicates the party of elected officials in the U.S. state of Kansas:

The table also indicates the historical party composition in the:

For years in which a presidential election was held, the table indicates which party's nominees received the state's electoral votes.

The parties are as follows: #CCEEFF (D), #CCFFCC (Farm. All./P), #FFB6B6 (R),  and #D8BFD8.

[[Republican In Name Only]]

CATEGORIES: Republicans (United States)

Republicans In Name Only or RINO is a word for people who are in the Republican Party of the United States but believe things and want to pass laws that are different from most Republicans.  RINO is a pejorative term, meaning it is an insult that other Republicans or conservatives use for people whom they think should not count as Republican.

In the 1800s and 1900s people said "republican in name only" when talking about governments of countries that said they let people elect their own leaders, like in a real republic, but really ruled regardless of what the people wanted.

When Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft both wanted to become the Republican candidate for President of the United States in the early 1900s, they accused each other of being "Republican in Name Only." When he was President, Franklin Roosevelt called Republicans who supported the New Deal "Me Too Republicans" and claimed they were just promising to do what he was already doing.  Today, people call the Me Too Republicans Republican in Name Only.

In 1964, Senator Barry Goldwater refused to run for President as a moderate because "Extremism in the pursuit of justice is no vice and moderation in the service of conscience is no virtue." 

In 1976, Ronald Reagan challenged President Gerald Ford for the nomination of the Republican Party to run for President and insisted on a conservative platform instead of Ford's moderate position. 

In 1993, an article in a newspaper claimed that President Bill Clinton should be pleased that the United States Congress was being won by Democrats and RINOs.

[[Baddeck, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Baddeck (b; Scottish Gaelic: Badaig; 2011 population: 769) is a village in Victoria County, Nova Scotia, Canada. 

[[Arthur Ryan]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Irish businesspeople, People from Dublin

Arthur Ryan (1935 – 8 July 2019) was an Irish businessman. He was known as the founder of Primark. In 2009, Ryan gave up his day-to-day control of the firm as chief executive but became chairman instead. Ryan was born in Dublin.

Ryan died at the age of 83 following from a short illness in Dublin.

[[CSX]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 establishments in North America, American transport companies, Companies listed on NASDAQ, Companies of the United States, Rail transport in Canada

CSX is a United States-based holding company and is the primary freight and rail company in North America. The company formed as a merger of many smaller rail companies over the years. It became known as CSX in 1980.

[[Creuse (disambiguation)]]

Creuse can mean:

[[Vendée (disambiguation)]]

Vendée can mean:

[[Var]]

Var or VAR can mean:

[[Emory, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Emory is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Rains County.

[[Sanderson, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s establishments in Texas, 1882 establishments in the United States, Census-designated places in Texas, County seats in Texas

Sanderson is a census-designated place (CDP) in and the county seat of Terrell County, Texas, United States. The population was 837 at the 2010 census. Sanderson was created in 1882 as a part of neighboring Pecos County. It became the seat of  Terrell County in 1905.

[[Farwell, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Farwell is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Parmer County.

[[Yusei Kikuchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Japanese baseball players, Seattle Mariners players, People from Iwate Prefecture, Living people

Yusei Kikuchi is a Japanese professional baseball pitcher for the Seattle Mariners of Major League Baseball (MLB). Kikuchi formerly played for the Saitama Seibu Lions of Nippon Professional Baseball's Pacific League.

He is the first Japanese-born player to make his major league debut in Japan.

[[Allan Octavian Hume]]

CATEGORIES: 1829 births, 1912 deaths, British botanists, British ornithologists, British politicians, Order of the Bath

Allan Octavian Hume, CB ICS (4 June 1829 – 31 July 1912) was a member of the Imperial Civil Service (later the Indian Civil Service), a political reformer, ornithologist and botanist who worked in British India. He was one of the founders of the Indian National Congress. A notable ornithologist, Hume has been called "the Father of Indian Ornithology" and, by those who found him dogmatic, "the Pope of Indian ornithology".

As an administrator of Etawah, he saw the Indian Rebellion of 1857 as a result of misgovernance and made great efforts to improve the lives of the common people. The district of Etawah was among the first to be returned to normality and over the next few years Hume's reforms led to the district being considered a model of development. Hume rose in the ranks of the Indian Civil Service and, in 1871 to the position of secretary to the Department of Revenue, Agriculture, and Commerce under Lord Mayo. His criticism of Lord Lytton, however, led to his removal from the Secretariat in 1879.

He left India in 1894 to live in London from where he continued to take an interest in the Indian National Congress. After retiring from the civil services and towards the end of Lord Lytton's rule, Hume observed that the people of India had a sense of hopelessness and wanted to do something, noting "a sudden violent outbreak of sporadic crime, murders of obnoxious persons, robbery of bankers and looting of bazaars, acts really of lawlessness which by a due coalescence of forces might any day develop into a National Revolt." Concerning the British government, he stated that a studied and invariable disregard, if not actually contempt for the opinions and feelings of our subjects, is at the present day the leading characteristic of our government in every branch of the administration.

The idea of the Indian Union took shape and Hume initially had some support from Lord Dufferin for this, although the latter wished to have no official link to it. It has been suggested that the idea was originally conceived in a private meeting of seventeen men after a Theosophical Convention held at Madras in December 1884. Hume took the initiative, and it was in March 1885, when the first notice was issued convening the first Indian National Union to meet at Poona the following December.

He attempted to increase the Congress base by bringing in more farmers, townspeople and Muslims between 1886 and 1887 and this created a backlash from the British, leading to backtracking by the Congress. Hume was disappointed when Congress opposed moves to raise the age of marriage for Indian girls and failed to focus on issues of poverty. Some Indian princes did not like the idea of democracy. In 1892, he tried to get them to act by warning of a violent agrarian revolution but this only outraged the British establishment and frightened the Congress leaders. Disappointed by the continued lack of Indian leaders willing to work for the cause of national emancipation, Hume left India in 1894.

Many Anglo-Indians were against the idea of the Indian National Congress. The press in India tended to look upon it negatively, so much so that Hume is said to have held a very low opinion of journalists even later in life. A satirical work published in 1888 included a character called "A. O. Humebogue".

The organizers of the 27th session of the Indian National Congress at Bankipur (26–28 December 1912) recorded their "profound sorrow at the death of Allan Octavian Hume, C.B., father and founder of the Congress, to whose lifelong services, rendered at rare self-sacrifice, India feels deep and lasting gratitude, and in whose death the cause of Indian progress and reform sustained an irreparable loss."

[[Jeet Gannguli discography]]

CATEGORIES: Discographies

[[List of monarchs of Eswatini]]

CATEGORIES: Eswatini, Lists of heads of state

This article lists the monarchs (''Ngwenyamas'') of Eswatini (known as Swaziland for most of its history). 

The King of Eswatini (also known as Ingwenyama) rules alongside the Queen Mother (also known as Ndlovukati). The role of the king has historically been as the head or father of the nation while the Queen Mother is the spiritual leader of the nation.

[[Steve Perry]]

CATEGORIES: American singers, American songwriters, 1949 births, Living people

Stephen Ray Perry (born January 22, 1949) Prato's colleague John Franck praised Perry's as a soaring "whale of a voice". is an American singer and songwriter. He is best known as the lead singer of the rock band Journey. He was with Journey during their most commercially successful periods from 1977 to 1987, and again from 1995 to 1998. Perry also had a successful solo career between the mid-1980s and mid-1990s.

[[Survivor (Israeli TV series)]]

CATEGORIES: Mass media in Israel, Television game shows, Reality television series, 2007 television series debuts

Survivor (הישרדות‎, Hisardut), formerly known as Survivor 10, is an Israeli reality competition game show. It is based on the popular international Survivor television franchise. The series began in December 2007. It aired on Israel's Channel 10 for six seasons. After legal issues between Channel 10 and Castaway Television, the series went on a three-year hiatus. In 2015 the series returned for a seventh season on Channel 2 and Reshet. The show is hosted by actor and singer Guy Zu-Aretz.

Following the basic premise of other international versions of the franchise, it features a group of contestants who are marooned in an isolated location, where they must provide food, water, fire, and shelter for themselves. The contestants compete in challenges for rewards and immunity from elimination. The contestants are progressively eliminated from the game as they are voted out by their fellow contestants, until only one remains and is given the title of "The Last Survivor" and is awarded the grand prize of 1 million NIS.

[[Kidney bean]]

CATEGORIES: Beans

The kidney bean is a variety of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris).

[[List of heads of state of Ivory Coast]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Ivory Coast

[[Tai languages]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Asia, Tonal languages

Tai languages are a branch of the Kra-Dai language family mostly spoken in Southeast Asia. Major languages of this language family include Thai and Lao.

Tai-Kadai languages are tonal and analytic languages.

[[Kra-Dai languages]]

CATEGORIES: Tonal languages, Sino-Austronesian languages

The Kra-Dai languages make up a language family spoken mostly in Southeast Asia. Major languages of this language family include Thai and Lao.

[[Clint Black]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, American country guitarists, American country singers, American record producers, Living people, People from Katy, Texas, Musicians from Houston, Texas

Clint Patrick Black (born February 4, 1962) is an American country music singer, songwriter, musician, multi-instrumentalist, record producer and actor. Signed to RCA Records in 1989, Black's debut album Killin' Time produced four straight number one singles on the US Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks charts. Although his momentum gradually slowed throughout the 1990s, Black consistently charted hit songs into the 2000s. He has had more than 30 singles on the US Billboard country charts, twenty-two of which have reached number one, in addition to having released twelve studio albums and several compilation albums. In 2003, Black founded his own record label, Equity Music Group. Black has also ventured into acting, having made a cameo appearance in the 1994 film Maverick, as well as a starring role in 1998's Still Holding On: The Legend of Cadillac Jack''.

[[Tom Steyer 2020 presidential campaign]]

CATEGORIES: 2020 United States presidential campaigns

The 2020 presidential campaign of Tom Steyer began on July 9, 2019, when Steyer stated that he would be running in the Democratic primaries in an online campaign video.

Steyer has been seen as a potential presidential candidate in the 2020 election. In January 2019, Steyer traveled to Iowa to announce that he was not running for president.

He dropped out of the race after losing the South Carolina primary on February 29, 2020. Steyer spent $250 million of his own money on his campaign. This was more than any other candidate in history, except Mike Bloomberg's campaign.

[[Mary E. Barkworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Botanists

Mary Elizabeth Barkworth (born 1941 Marlborough UK) is a Canadian who has worked most of her life as a botanist. She has spent most of her working life as a faculty member at Utah State University. During that time, she worked primarily on grasses, particularly members of the Stipeae and Triticeae, but she also had primary responsibility for production of the two grass Gramineae volumes (volumes 24 & 25) in the Flora of North America series. These two volumes served as the basis for three other resources: The Manual of Grasses for North America, Grasses of the Intermountain Region, and the Manual of Grasses on the web. This last was taken down for security concerns. Most of its resources, some updated, are available through OpenHerbarium.org (descriptions and illustrations) and Keybase. 

Barkworth retired from Utah State University in 2012. Since retiring, she has focused on two areas, expanding digitization of herbarium collections using OpenHerbarium.org and developing access to biodiversity education in Somaliland through the Somaliland Biodiversity Foundation.

Her name is usually abbreviated as «Barkworth» when citing a botanical name.

[[Kansas City International Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in the United States, Kansas City, Missouri

Kansas City International Airport MCI (originally Mid-Continent International Airport) is a public airport. It is 15 miles (24 km) northwest of downtown Kansas City in Platte County, Missouri. In 2018, 11,850,825 people used the airport. 2018 was the second busiest year in its history. Its largest carriers are Southwest Airlines and Delta Air Lines. Both of them have many flights every day in Terminal B.

[[Jeffrey Epstein]]

CATEGORIES: Jeffrey Epstein, 1953 births, 2019 deaths, American philanthropists, American sex offenders, Businesspeople from New York City, Child sexual abusers, Criminals from New York City, Criminals who committed suicide, Jewish American criminals, Jewish businesspeople, Jewish philanthropists, Jews who committed suicide, People who died in prison custody, Suicides by hanging in the United States

Jeffrey Edward Epstein (January 20, 1953 – August 10, 2019) was an American financier and a registered sex offender. He started his career in an investment bank called Bear Stearns. A few years later, made his own investment bank, J. Epstein & Co. He was born in New York City to Jewish parents.

In 2008, he was arrested for paying an underage girl for prostitution. He spent 13 months in "custody with work release", which means that he was allowed to be outside of prison for up to 16 hours per day. Epstein was arrested again on July 6, 2019. He was arrested because he did sex trafficking of minors in the states of Florida and New York. Epstein has been a registered sex offender since 2008.

On August 10, 2019, he killed himself by hanging. The medical examiner told court that Epstein committed suicide, but Epstein's lawyers disagreed. On August 29, 2019, the judge decided to end the criminal investigation of Epstein.

[[J. T. Realmuto]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, American baseball players, Living people, National League All-Stars, Sportspeople from Oklahoma, Philadelphia Phillies players

Jacob Tyler Realmuto (born March 18, 1991) is an American professional baseball catcher for the Philadelphia Phillies of Major League Baseball (MLB). The Florida Marlins selected Realmuto in the third round of the 2010 Major League Baseball draft. He made his MLB debut in 2014 with the Miami Marlins. In 2018, Realmuto was an All-Star and won the Silver Slugger Award at catcher. The Marlins traded him to the Phillies in February 2019.

[[Pacinko]]

CATEGORIES: Indonesian people

Pacinko or Pasukan Cina Kota (literally China Town Army) is an outlaw motorcycle club triad in Indonesia that active around 1970s until 1980s and led by Johny Indo. This club is famous for their brutal crime activities. Their rival is another outlaw motorcycle club named Y-Gen. But in the end, Y-Gen splits into multiple new outlaw motorcycle clubs, like Hanoman, Aligator, and Night Sons Racing.

[[Dejan Lovren]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 births, Living people, Croatian footballers, 2018 FIFA World Cup players, Liverpool F.C. players

Dejan Lovren (born 5 July 1989) is a Croatian football player.  He plays as a defender for Zenit Saint Petersburg and Croatia national team.

[[Scream Queens]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American comedy television series, 2010s American television series, 2010s television series, 2015 American television series debuts, 2015 television series debuts, 2016 television series endings, American comedy television series, American comedy-drama television series, American drama television series, American horror television series, American medical television series, American sitcoms, American television series, Black comedy television series, College television series, Comedy television series, Fox Broadcasting Company, Fox television series, Horror television series, Satirical television series, Television series set in Los Angeles, California, English-language television programs

Scream Queens is an American black comedy-horror television series that aired on Fox from 2015 to 2016.

[[Valangaiman taluk]]

Valagaiman is a one of the great taluk of thiruvarur..

Once upon a Time this valagaiman taluk is in thanjavur district..

Then it is in Thiruvarur district...

And the present that valagaiman taluk is to move of a new district of kumbakonam... 

Valagaiman taluk is have a beautiful & great cities &  villages...

Avoor is the great example of that villages...

[[Zoolander 2]]

CATEGORIES: Movies set in Rome

Zoolander 2 is a 2016 American action-comedy film directed by Ben Stiller and written by John Hamburg, Justin Theroux, Stiller and Nicholas Stoller. It is the sequel to the 2001 film Zoolander and stars Stiller, Owen Wilson, Will Ferrell, Penélope Cruz and Kristen Wiig.

Filming took place from April to July 2015, in Rome, Italy.

[[Lakeville, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Connecticut

Lakeville is a village and census-designated place in Litchfield County, Connecticut. It is within the area of the Town of Salisbury. It is southwest of Salisbury Village on U.S. Route 44. In 2010, the population was 928. New England's oldest Methodist congregation  is in Lakeville.

[[Robert F. Marx]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2019 deaths, People from Florida

Robert F. Marx (December 8, 1936 – July 4, 2019) was an American scuba diver. He was best known for his work with shipwrecks and sunken treasure. Although he was criticized for his treasure hunting, he was known as the "true father of underwater archaeology". He was born in Indialantic, Florida. Marx became a diving specialist in the United States Marine Corps in 1953.

Marx died on July 4, 2019 in Indialantic at the age of 85.

[[Indialantic, Florida]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Florida

Indialantic is a town in Brevard County, Florida. The town's population was 2,720 at the 2010 United States Census. It is part of the Palm Bay–Melbourne–Titusville Metropolitan Statistical Area.

[[Philip Freelon]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from motor neurone disease, American architects, American educators, Businesspeople from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Philip Freelon (March 26, 1953 – July 9, 2019), was an American architect. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Freelon was best known for leading the design team (with J. Max Bond, Jr. of Davis Brody Bond, and David Adjaye) of the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of African American History and Culture. He was also known for his designs for National Center for Civil and Human Rights and Museum of the African Diaspora.

Freelon died on July 9, 2019 at his home in Durham, North Carolina from problems caused by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis at the age of 67.

[[Megan Rapinoe]]

CATEGORIES: 1985 births, Living people, Lesbians, American footballers, LGBT people from California, Sportspeople from California

Megan Anna Rapinoe (Rapinoe pronounciation.ogg; born July 5, 1985) is an American professional soccer player. She plays for and captains Reign FC in the National Women's Soccer League, as a midfielder and winger.

Rapinoe is a member of the United States women's national soccer team, she helped the U.S. win the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup, the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup, and the gold at the 2012 London Olympics.

She is openly a lesbian.

[[Steve Cannon (writer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from sepsis, American novelists, American playwrights, Writers from New Orleans, Louisiana

Steve Cannon (April 10, 1935 – July 7, 2019) was an American writer. He was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. He was known as the founder of the cultural organization A Gathering of the Tribes. Cannon went completely blind in 1989 from glaucoma.

Cannon died on July 7, 2019 from septic shock caused by a ruptured cyst at a hospital in New York City at the age of 84.

[[Ekaterina Koroleva]]

CATEGORIES: 1998 births, 2019 deaths, Accidental deaths by drowning, Deaths in sport, Russian sportspeople

Ekaterina Aleksandrovna Koroleva (Екатерина Александровна Королёва; 8 October 1998 – 7 July 2019) was a Russian handball player. She played for Stavropol SKFU and for the women's national team. She was born in Krymsk, Russia.

In 2017 she won at the U-19 European Championships in Slovenia the Silver medal after losing the finale against France. Later the Russian team has lost the medal due to a positive doping test by a team member of Koroleva. 

On 7 July 2019, Koroleva drowned in a swimming accident on the closing day of the 2019 European Beach Handball Championship in Stare Jabłonki, Poland, aged 20.

[[2019 Tajoura migrant center airstrike]]

CATEGORIES: History of Libya, 2019 in Africa, July 2019 events

On 3 July 2019, an airstrike by General Khalifa Haftar's Libyan National Army (LNA) hit the Tajoura Detention Center outside Tripoli, Libya, while hundreds of people were inside the facility. 

The detention center was being used as a holding facility for migrants and refugees trying to reach Europe when a storage hangar that it used as a residential facility was destroyed in an aerial bombing. 

The United Nations Human Rights Council stated that "It was known that there were 600 people living inside" the facility. At least 53 people were killed and 130 were wounded.

[[One-design dinghy]]

CATEGORIES: Boats, Sailing, Water transport

A One-design dinghy is a type of boat which has been built exactly the same as the next so that racing dinghy sailing equal and fair to all.

[[Eddie Gerard]]

CATEGORIES: 1890 births, 1937 deaths, Canadian ice hockey left wingers, Deaths from oral cancer, Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, Ice hockey people from Ontario, Ottawa Senators (original) players, People from Ottawa, Stanley Cup champions, Toronto St. Pats players, Ottawa Senators (NHA) players

Edward George Gerard (February 22, 1890 – August 7, 1937) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player and coach.

[[Bible Hill, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Bible Hill is a Canadian village in Colchester County, Nova Scotia.

[[Canning, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Canning is a village in northeastern Kings County, Nova Scotia.

[[Chester, Nova Scotia]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Nova Scotia

Chester is a village on the Chester Peninsula, Mahone Bay, Nova Scotia, Canada.

[[I Love New York]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 songs, Advertising, American culture, Madonna songs, New York City, Tourism, 1977 establishments, Music in New York City, United States state songs

I Love New York, seen visually as, "I  ❤  NY" was a design concept created by Milton Glaser in 1977. The song "I Love New York" also the state song of New York. The logo was created by Milton Glaser.

[[1952 Indian presidential election]]

CATEGORIES: India

The Election Commission of India held the first presidential elections of India on May 2, 1952. Dr. Rajendra Prasad won his first election with 507,400 votes (83.81%) over his nearest rival K. T. Shah who got 92,827 votes (15.3%).

[[Swindle]]

CATEGORIES: 2013 movies, American comedy movies, American television movies, English-language movies, Nickelodeon, Teen movies

Swindle is a 2013 American television film starring Noah Crawford, Chris O'Neal, Jennette McCurdy, Noah Munck, Ariana Grande, Ciara Bravo, and Fred Ewanuick. Based on Gordon Korman's novel of the same name, the film tells the story of Griffin (Noah Crawford), a boy who retrieves his friend's valuable baseball card from an unscrupulous collectibles dealer with the help of his friends. The film premiered August 24, 2013 to an audience of over 4.2 million viewers. The film was released on DVD on March 19, 2014, and on Blu-ray on December 4, 2015.

[[Dysalotosaurus]]

CATEGORIES: Iguanodonts

Dysalotosaurus was a small plant-eating ornithopod dinosaur that lived in forests around 150 million years ago. 

[[Tokyo Bay]]

CATEGORIES: Tokyo, Bays, Bodies of water of Japan

Tokyo Bay is a bay in the southern Kantō region of Japan. It goes on the coasts of Tokyo, Kanagawa Prefecture, and Chiba Prefecture. The Uraga Channel connects Tokyo Bay to the Pacific Ocean. Its old name was Edo Bay. The Tokyo Bay region is the place with the most people, and it's the place that is most industrialized in Japan.

[[Eudora, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Douglas County, Kansas

Eudora is a city in Douglas County, Kansas, United States.  The city is along the Kansas River and the Wakarusa River. In 2010, 6,136 people lived there.

[[Abel]]

CATEGORIES: Biblical people, Old Testament people

Abel is the brother of Cain who, loosely, according to the original texts and scrits of the Catholic Holy Word, was murdered by his brother for misplaced jealousy and envy.

Abel, the younger of the two brothers, hearded animals, namely sheep and goats. Cain was a farmer who spent his days sowing and reaping the land that his younger brother's animals would graze from.

When Cain presented to God his sacrifice, produce from his crops, God was pleased with Cain. However when the shepherd, Abel presented his blood sacrifice of living animals, God was more pleased with him than Cain. The older brother took great offense to this, leaving his mind vulnerable to The Devil's poisonous reasonings. He slew his brother in cold blood.

And so goes the story of Abel's short lived life.

[[KFC Index]]

CATEGORIES: Economics, KFC

The KFC Index is an economic index which compares the purchasing power of two currencies in African countries. It is related to the Big Mac Index, but the KFC Index is only about Africa. The Big Mac Index is about many countries in the world, but it can't be used for Africa. This is because there aren't many McDonald's in Africa. KFC is in almost 20 countries in Africa, so it is easier to use.

[[Formal verification]]

CATEGORIES: Mathematics

Formal verification is the process used to prove that a piece of software or hardware works according to its specification. Formal verification uses a mathematical proof. Systems such as those used in robots, or airplanes need to be proved correct, before they can be used.

[[Aaron Rosand]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2019 deaths, American violinists, Musicians from Indiana, People from Hammond, Indiana

Aaron Rosand (March 15, 1927 – July 9, 2019) was an American violinist. In an April 1970 review in The New York Times, critic Harold C. Schonberg wrote of Rosand that “Romanticism on the violin had a rebirth last night in Carnegie Hall". In the 1960s he performed often at Butler University's Festival of Neglected Romantic Music.

Rosand died on July 9, 2019 in New York City, aged 92.

[[Paulo Henrique Amorim]]

CATEGORIES: Brazilian writers, Brazilian journalists, 1942 births, 2019 deaths, People from Rio de Janeiro, Deaths from myocardial infarction

Paulo Henrique dos Santos Amorim (22 February 1942 – 10 July 2019) was a Brazilian blogger and journalist. He was born in Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro.

Amorim worked as a sociologist and political scientist. He worked for Manchete Network, Grupo Abril, Jornal do Brasil, Globo Network, Bandeirantes Network and TV Cultura.

From 2003 on, he worked for Record Network. Online-wise, he worked for Zaz, Terra, UOL and Internet Group (iG). He also owned an independent web portal named Conversa Afiada,  "located somewhere in the Web 2.0".

Amorim died on 10 July 2019 in Rio de Janeiro from a heart attack at the age of 77.

[[Cerebral amyloid angiopathy]]

CATEGORIES: Diseases

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA), also known as congophilic angiopathy, is a form of angiopathy in which amyloid comes out of the walls of the blood vessels of the central nervous system. 

The term congophilic is used because the amyloid appears red when looked under a microscope when Congo red dye is used. The amyloid material is only found in the brain and as such the disease is not related to other forms of amyloidosis.

[[Jim Bouton]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from brain disease, Disease-related deaths in Massachusetts, New York Yankees players, Milwaukee Brewers players, Houston Astros players, Atlanta Braves players, American movie actors, American inventors, American activists, People from Teaneck, New Jersey, Actors from New Jersey, Sportspeople from New Jersey, Writers from New Jersey

James Alan Bouton (ˈ; March 8, 1939 – July 10, 2019) was an American professional baseball player, writer and actor. He was born in Newark, New Jersey. 

Bouton played in Major League Baseball (MLB) as a pitcher for the New York Yankees, Seattle Pilots, Houston Astros, and Atlanta Braves between 1962 and 1978. He was also a best-selling author who wrote Ball Four. He was also an activist, sportscaster and one of the creators of Big League Chew. 

An actor, he was known for his role as Terry Lennox in Robert Altman's 1973 movie The Long Goodbye.

Bouton was a delegate to the 1972 Democratic National Convention for George McGovern.

Bouton died under hospice care in Great Barrington, Massachusetts on July 10, 2019 from cerebral amyloid angiopathy, aged 80.

[[Great Barrington, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Massachusetts, Berkshire County, Massachusetts

Great Barrington is a  town in Berkshire County, Massachusetts, United States. The population was 7,104 at the 2010 census. It is the birthplace of W. E. B. Du Bois. In 2012, Smithsonian magazine ranked Great Barrington #1 in its list of "The 20 Best Small Towns in America".

[[Motto McLean]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2019 deaths, American Hockey Association (1926–42) players, Canadian ice hockey players, Scottish sportspeople

Emmanuel Hall Roberts McLean (December 26, 1925 – July 10, 2019) was a Scottish-born Canadian professional hockey player.

McLean played for the Omaha Knights and Fort Worth Rangers. He also played for the St. Louis Flyers in the American Hockey League, along with the New Westminster Royals and Vancouver Canucks. He received the Wm. Thayer Tutt Award from USA Hockey in 2002.

McLean was born in Dalmeny, Scotland. He died in Omaha, Nebraska on July 10, 2019 at the age of 93.

[[Brendan Grace]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Irish comedians, Irish television actors, Irish movie actors, Singers from Dublin, Actors from Dublin

Brendan Grace (1 April 1951 – 11 July 2019) was an Irish comedian and singer. He was known for his comedy schoolboy character "Bottler", the role of Murphy in the 1995 movie Moondance, and his 1996 appearance in the Irish TV sitcom Father Ted as Father Fintan Stack. Grace was born in Dublin.

Grace died on 11 July 2019 in Dublin from lung cancer at the age of 68.

[[Antony Acland]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Ambassadors of the United Kingdom

Sir Antony Arthur Acland GBR (12 March 1930 – 8 September 2021) was a British diplomat. He was the Provost of Eton College. Acland was the U.K. Ambassador to the United States from 1986 to 1991 during the Margaret Thatcher and John Major ministries.

Acland died on 8 September 2021 at the age of 91.

[[Capital districts and territories]]

CATEGORIES: Capital cities, Districts, Political subdivisions

A capital district, capital region, or capital territory is a district in which the capital of a; state, country or settlement is located. In federal states, the capital district is often a federal district.

[[2006–07 New York Rangers season]]

CATEGORIES: National Hockey League team seasons

The 2006–07 New York Rangers season was the National Hockey League franchise's 80th season of play and their 81st season overall.

[[2018 Memorial Cup]]

CATEGORIES: 2018 in ice hockey, Memorial Cup

The 2018 Memorial Cup (branded as the 2018 Mastercard Memorial Cup for sponsorship reasons) was a four-team, round-robin format tournament that was held at the Brandt Centre in Regina, Saskatchewan from May 18–27, 2018. It was the 100th Memorial Cup championship of junior ice hockey, and determined the champion of the Canadian Hockey League (CHL). 

[[Golmaal 3]]

CATEGORIES: 2010 comedy movies, 2010s action comedy movies, Indian movies, Movies directed by Rohit Shetty

Golmaal 3 (eng: Mayhem 3), is a movie in the Golmaal Series, starring Ajay Devgn, Arshad Warsi and Kareena Kapoor in lead roles. It was released on 5 November 2010, while Diwali Festival was there. This movie had a great comedy, people laughed on seeing the movie. This was one of the best movies of Rohit Shetty ,the great director. Jaani Dushman: Ek Anokhi Kahani 

[[Auxiliary sciences of history]]

CATEGORIES: History

The Auxiliary sciences of history are fields of study based on historical sources and items. 

Many of these fields of study started between the 16th and 19th centuries. At first, they were started by students of old artifacts. At the time, "History" was thought of only as a literary skill. 

In the late 18th century the study of history became more empirical. This change was lead by the Göttingen School of History. Then in the mid-19th century, Leopold von Ranke also focused on it. These changes lead to the rise of the trained historian as a skill. 

The auxiliary sciences of history include, but are not limited to:

[[Sigillography]]

CATEGORIES: History

Sigillography is the study of the seals used on documents. It is one of the auxiliary sciences of history. It has links to diplomatics, heraldry, social history, and the history of art.

This field of study was started in the 15th century by students of old artifacts. Then it became more well known in the 16th and 17th centuries. At first this field of study was thought of as part of diplomatics. But over time it became known as its own field of study.  

[[Ron Estes]]

CATEGORIES: 21st-century American politicians, Kansas Republicans

Ronald Gene Estes (born July 19, 1956) is an American politician. He has been a member of the U.S. Representative for Kansas's 4th congressional district since April 25, 2017. He is a Republican. He was the 39th Kansas State Treasurer from 2011 to 2017 under Governor Sam Brownback.

[[Kansas State Treasurer]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Kansas

The State Treasurer of Kansas is in charge of the safe and efficient operation of state government. The Treasurer does this through effective banking, investment, and managing money.

The current Kansas Treasurer is Jacob LaTurner. He has been treasurer since April 25, 2017.

[[Secretary of State of Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Kansas, 1861 establishments in Kansas

The Secretary of State of Kansas is one of the constitutional officers of the U.S. state of Kansas. They are in charge of administering elections and voter registration for Kansas. They also get campaign finance reports. They are also able to prosecute people for voter fraud.

The current Secretary of State is Scott Schwab. He has been secretary since January 14, 2019.

[[Kansas Insurance Commissioner]]

CATEGORIES: Government of Kansas

The Kansas Insurance Commissioner (KIC) is in charge of helping the people whose lives are protected by insurance in the state of Kansas. The Insurance Commissioner is elected. The current Insurance Commissioner is Republican Vicki Schmidt.

[[The Signpost]]

CATEGORIES: Wikipedia Signpost, Works about Wikipedia

The Signpost is the online newsletter of the English Wikipedia. It is written by Wikipedia editors and covers news about the English Wikipedia. It includes news about important discussions, new featured articles and pictures, Wikipedia technology, and what other newspapers and journals have written about Wikipedia. It also publishes opinion articles by Wikipedia editors and sometimes news about the Wikimedia Foundation and Wikipedias in other languages.

[[Keke Palmer]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Actors from Illinois, Singers from Illinois, Television personalities from Illinois

Lauren Keyana "Keke" Palmer (born August 26, 1993) is an American actress, singer, and television personality.

[[Jason Bay]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, American League All-Stars, American baseball players, Boston Red Sox players, Canadian baseball players, Living people, National League All-Stars, Naturalized citizens of the United States, New York Mets players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, San Diego Padres players, Seattle Mariners players, Sportspeople from British Columbia

Jason Raymond Bay (born September 20, 1978) is a Canadian-American former professional baseball left fielder. Bay played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the San Diego Padres, Pittsburgh Pirates, Boston Red Sox, New York Mets and Seattle Mariners. Bay was the National League Rookie of the Year in 2004 and he won the Silver Slugger Award in 2009. He is a three-time MLB All-Star and a three-time Tip O'Neill Award winner as the best Canadian baseball player.

[[Giannis Antetokounmpo]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 births, Greek sportspeople, Milwaukee Bucks players, People from Athens, Living people

Giannis Sina Ougko Antetokounmpo (born December 6, 1994) is a Greek professional basketball player for the Milwaukee Bucks of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Nearly 7 feet tall, Antetokounmpo's combination of size, speed and ball-handling skills led to his nickname the "Greek Freak". He is the 2019 NBA Most Valuable Player.

Born in Greece to Nigerian parents, Antetokounmpo began playing basketball for the youth teams of Filathlitikos in Athens. In 2011 he began playing for the club's senior team. He declared himself eligible for the NBA Draft in 2013 and was selected 15th overall by the Bucks.

In 2016–17 he led the Bucks in all five major statistical categories and became the first player in NBA history to finish a regular season in the top 20 in total points, rebounds, assists, steals, and blocks (although totals are not the statistics used to determine league leaders, in which case the stat is not true; and several players have completed seasons with higher average ranks among the five statistics, such as Michael Jordan in 1987-88 and 1988-89). He received the Most Improved Player award in 2017. He has received three All-Star selections, and led the Eastern Conference in voting in 2019. He was named NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP) in June 2019.

[[Bechuanaland]]

CATEGORIES: Colonialism, History of South Africa

Bechuanaland was a federation of Tswana lands stretching from the territiry of the Bangwato in present day Botswana to the Batlhaping area around present day Kimberley,South  Africa. The area included present day Botswana and large parts of what is now the North West and Northern Cape provinces of modern day South Africa.

Bechuanaland was declared of British protectorate, in 1885, and subsequently divided the territory along the Molopo River.

The areas to the South of the Molopo became British Bechuanaland and would later be handed over to the Cape Colony, which in 1910 was part of the two British colonies (Cape Colony and Natal) which united with the Boer republic's (Transvaal and Orange Free State to form the Union of South Africa).

To the territory of modern-day Botswana, North of Molopo became Bechuanaland Protectorate until independence in 1966.

Great Britain offered protection against the Boer Republics after the Boers invaded Bechuanaland in the early 1880s establishing Stellaland and Goshen within Bechuanaland around present day Vryburg, South Africa.

The Christian missionary John MacKenzie of the London Missionary Society (LMS) convinced Bangwato ruler Khama III and other Tswana rulers to seek Protectorate status and the Warren Expedition was dispatched from the Cape in 1885 to remove the Boers from Stellaland and Goshen and proclaim Bechuanaland a British Protectorate.

It had a territory of approximately 582000.

After the British divided Bechuanaland into two, the capital of Bechuanaland Protectorate now fell outside its territory: It was the modern-day city of Mahikeng, then called Mafeking, in South Africa.

[[Great Flood of 1951]]

CATEGORIES: Floods

In mid-July 1951, heavy rains led to a lot of water in the Kansas River. Flooding happened in the Kansas, Neosho, Marais Des Cygnes, and Verdigris river basins. There was more than $935 million in damage in eastern Kansas and Missouri in June and July 1951. Adjusting for inflation, it would be nearly $8.52 billion in 2016. The flood killed 17 people. It caused 518,000 people to move somewhere else.

[[Fort Riley, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Forts in Kansas

Fort Riley is a United States Army installation in North Central Kansas. It is on the Kansas River between Junction City and Manhattan. The Fort Riley Military Reservation covers 101,733 acres (41,170 ha) in Geary and Riley counties. The part of the fort that has housing development is part of the Fort Riley census-designated place. In 2010, 7,761 people lived there. The fort has a daytime population of nearly 25,000. The ZIP Code is 66442.

[[Larry J. Hopkins]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, United States representatives from Kentucky, Politicians from Detroit, Michigan, US Republican Party politicians

Larry Jones Hopkins (born October 25, 1933) is an American politician. He represented Kentucky's 6th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives from 1979 to 1993. He was the Republican nominee for Governor of Kentucky in 1991 and lost to Brereton C. Jones. He was born in Detroit, Michigan. His son is actor Josh Hopkins.

[[Walt Michaels]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2019 deaths, American football linebackers, American football coaches, New York Jets players, Green Bay Packers players, Cleveland Browns players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania, People from Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania

Walter Edward Michaels (October 16, 1929 – July 10, 2019) was a professional American football player and coach. He was best known for his six-year career as head coach of the NFL's New York Jets from 1977 to 1982. As a player, he played for the Green Bay Packers, Cleveland Browns and the New York Jets. Michaels was born in Swoyersville, Pennsylvania.

Michaels died on July 10, 2019 in Plains, Pennsylvania at the age of 89.

[[Swoyersville, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania

Swoyersville is a borough in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 5,062 at the 2010 census.

[[Luzerne County, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: 1780s establishments in Pennsylvania, 1786 establishments in the United States, Pennsylvania counties

Luzerne County is a county in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. As of the 2010 census, the population was 320,918, making it the most populous county in the northeastern part of the state. 

The county seat and largest city is Wilkes-Barre. 

Other populous communities include Hazleton, Kingston, Nanticoke, and Pittston. Luzerne County is included in the Scranton–Wilkes-Barre–Hazleton Metropolitan Statistical Area, which has a total population of 555,426 (as of 2017).

[[Rebecca Nagan]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Actors, Puppeteers

Rebecca Nagan (born March 3, 1968) is an actress and puppeteer best known for playing Rosie from the children's show Rosie and Jim from 1990-2000. She performed Tootle, one of The Motorettes from The Hoobs.

She has also starred in various other TV shows including Becky and Barnaby Bear as Barnaby and Bug Alert as Doodle Bug.

[[Naval ship]]

CATEGORIES: Military

A naval ship is a military ship (or sometimes boat, depending on classification) used by a navy.

[[Naval base]]

CATEGORIES: Military

A naval base, navy base, or military port is a military base, where warships and naval ships are. The ships are there when they have no mission at sea or want to restock. Ships may also get some minor repairs. Some naval bases are temporary homes to aircraft. They usually stay on the ships but may have maintenance while the ship is in port.

[[Rex Wood]]

CATEGORIES: Australian artists, 1909 births, 1970 deaths

Rex Wood (6 April 1906 – 1970) was a South Australian artist. He lived in Portugal for many years.

He was born in Laura, South Australia. 

Rex Wood studied painting at the South Australian School of Art under Mary Packer Harris (1891–1978). He became an art critic for The News in 1934 and held an exhibition in 1935. He had another exhibition in 1937, the evening before he left for England and the Continent.

He studied at the Anglo-French Art Centre at St Johns Wood and the Southampton Row School of Art. 

He spent much of the war years in Portugal. 

He visited Australia in the mid-1950s then went back to Portugal.He died in Estoril around 24 January 1970.

[[Big League Chew]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 establishments in the United States, Candy, Baseball

Big League Chew is a brand of bubble gum. It is shredded and packaged in an aluminum foil pouch. It was created by Portland Mavericks left-handed pitcher Rob Nelson and bat boy Todd Field. It was then pitched to the Wrigley Company by Jim Bouton as a fun imitation of the tobacco-chewing.

Over 800 million pouches of Big League Chew have been sold since 1980. Big League Chew was introduced in May 1980, it comes in flashy colors such as neon green (for their sour apple flavor) and bright purple (grape flavor).

[[Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from lung cancer, Turkish politicians

Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat (8 August 1943 – 11 July 2019) was a Kurdish politician. He was one of the founders of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) in 2001. He was a Member of Parliament for the Grand National Assembly from 1999 to 2011 and again from 2015 until his death. He was a member of the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP).

Fırat was born in the district of Kahta in Adyaman. He died on 11 July 2019 from lung cancer in Istanbul at the age of 76.

[[Eastern Ghats]]

CATEGORIES: Mountain ranges of India, Landforms of India

Eastern Ghats is a separate category of mountains along the eastern coast of India. Eastern Ghats pass through parts of Karnataka and Wayanad district of Kerala, going south from Odisha to Tamil Nadu via Andhra Pradesh. They are being destroyed by four major rivers of peninsular India. Godavari, Mahanadi, Krishna, and Kaveri.

Mountain ranges run parallel to the Bay of Bengal. The Deccan Plateau is located in the west of the border between the Eastern Ghats and the Western Ghats. Coromandel is situated between coastal plains, eastern ghats and the Bay of Bengal along the coast area. Eastern Ghats is not as high as the Western Ghats.

[[She-Hulk]]

CATEGORIES: Marvel Comics superheroes

She-hulk is a human mutate created by Marvel Comics in 1980. Her alter ego is Jennifer Walters, and she became She-Hulk after an injury. She needed an emergency blood transplant, and received one from her cousin, Bruce Banner (Hulk). She then contracted a milder condition of his disease, meaning that she can turn green and powerful, yet still retain her emotional stability and her personality.

[[Crayford]]

CATEGORIES: Areas of London, London Borough of Bexley

Crayford is a small town in the London Borough of Bexley south London

[[Jungkook]]

CATEGORIES: BTS members, South Korean singers, Living people

Jeon

Jeon Jung-kook (born September 1, 1997) is a South Korean singer, songwriter, and record producer. He is also better known mononymously as Jungkook. He is known for being a member and one of the four vocalists of the South Korean boy group BTS.

[[Tongatapu]]

CATEGORIES: Tonga

Tongatapu is an island in the Pacific Ocean. It is the main island for the Kingdom of Tonga. The capital Nuku'alofa is located on this island.

[[Richard and Mary Parker]]

CATEGORIES: Spider-Man, Fictional characters introduced in the 1960s, Marvel Comics characters

Richard and Mary Parker are fictional characters appearing in Marvel Comics. They first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man Annual # 5 in 1968 created by Stan Lee and Larry Lieber.  Richard Parker is the younger brother of Benjamin'Uncle Ben' Parker, he is married to Mary Parker whose maiden name is Fitzpatrick and the father of Peter Parker.  Since the first issue Peter was raised by his Aunt May and Uncle Ben but it didn't explain where his parents were.  In their first appearance in a flashback it is revealed that they were murdered by the supervillain Albert Malik also known as the Red Skull.  In comics from the 1990's it is revealed that Richard Parker was recruited into the CIA by Nick Fury , that he was pretending to be a Russian double agent and that he and his wife were killed in a plane crash caused by sabotage.  Harry Osborne later creates robots that look just like Richard and Mary to trick Peter Parker into thinking  that his parents are still alive and then reveals that they are not to destroy him.  In the 2002 movie Spider-Man, Norman Osborne tells Peter Parker "your parents must be proud" and Peter tells him "I live with my aunt and uncle, they are proud." Uncle Ben later tells Peter "I know I'm not your father" and Peter tells him "then stop pretending to be". At the end of the movie the Green Goblin tells Spider-Man that Peter has been like a son to him and that he has been like a father and Peter tells him "I had a father, his name was Ben Parker."  

In the 2012 movie The Amazing Spider-Man Dr Richard Parker is a scientist who disappeared after he and his wife left their son Peter Parker with his Uncle Ben and Aunt May.  He is also responsible for the creation of the genetically engineered superspider that bites Peter and gives him his powers.

[[Derby, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Sedgwick County, Kansas

Derby is a city in Sedgwick County, Kansas, United States. It is the biggest suburb of Wichita. In 2010, 22,158 people lived there.

[[Great Bend, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kansas, County seats in Kansas, Barton County, Kansas

Great Bend is a city in Barton County, Kansas, United States. It is also the county seat of Barton County. It is named for its location at the place where the Arkansas River bends east then southeast. In 2010, 15,995 people lived there.

[[Red Hills (Kansas)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Kansas

The Red Hills (also called Gypsum Hills) is a physiographic area. It is mostly in Clark, Comanche and Barber counties in southern and central Kansas. This land has a lot of red rock. It does not fit the normal description of the Great Plains land of Kansas.

[[Crime in Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Crime in the United States, Kansas

This article refers to crime in the U.S. state of Kansas.

[[Pittsburg, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Crawford County, Kansas, 1876 establishments in Kansas

Pittsburg is a city in Crawford County, Kansas, United States. It is in Southeast Kansas near the Missouri state border. It is the biggest city in Crawford County and southeast Kansas. In 2010, 20,233 people lived there.

[[Falfurrias, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Falfurrias (f fal) is a city in and the county seat of Brooks County, Texas, United States. The population was 4,981 at the 2010 census.

[[Floresville, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Floresville is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Wilson County.

[[Gardner, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kansas, 1857 establishments in Kansas Territory

Gardner is a city in Johnson County, Kansas, United States. In 2010, 19,123 people there. It is in the Kansas City metropolitan area.

[[Winfield, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Cowley County, Kansas, County seats in Kansas

Winfield is a city and county seat of Cowley County, Kansas, United States.  It is on the Walnut River in South Central Kansas. In 2010 12,301 people lived there. It is the second biggest city in Cowley County.

[[Lansing, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kansas, 1959 establishments in the United States

Lansing is a city in Leavenworth County, Kansas, United States. It is on the west side of the Missouri River and Kansas-Missouri state border. In 2010, 11,265 people lived there. It is the second biggest city in Leavenworth County. It is part of the Kansas City metropolitan area.

The Lansing Correctional Facility (used to be called the Kansas State Penitentiary), which includes the state's main maximum-security prison, is in Lansing.

[[Haysville, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Sedgwick County, Kansas

Haysville is a city in Sedgwick County, Kansas, United States. It is a suburb of Wichita. In 2010, 10,826 people lived there.  Haysville is known as the "Peach Capital of Kansas".

[[Bongkel]]

CATEGORIES: Indonesian culture, Musical instruments

The Bongkel is a musical instrument from Indonesia. It is made from bamboo in the Banyumasan region.

[[Rif Dimashq Governorate]]

CATEGORIES: Rif Dimashq Governorate, Governorates of Syria

Rif Dimashq Governorate (محافظة ريف دمشق ar, literally, the "Governorate of the Countryside of Damascus") is one of the fourteen governorates (provinces) of Syria. It is in the southwestern part of the country. It borders the governorates of Quneitra, Daraa and al-Suwayda (comprising the historic Hauran region) in the southwest, Homs in the north, Lebanon in the west and Jordan in the south.

The Governorate completely surrounds the city-governorate of Damascus and it has an area of 18,032 km² and a population of 2,273,074 (2004 census).

[[Damascus Governorate]]

CATEGORIES: Damascus Governorate, Governorates of Syria

Damascus Governorate (مُحافظة دمشق ar) is one of the fourteen governorates (provinces) of Syria. Completely surrounded by the Rif Dimashq Governorate, it consists only of the city of Damascus, the capital of Syria, and the suburb of Yarmouk Camp.

The governorate's area is around 107 km2, encompassing the area of the city of Damascus and the Yarmouk Camp, while the population is around 1,711,000.

[[Typhoon Wutip (2019)]]

CATEGORIES: February 2019 events, March 2019 events, 2019 Pacific typhoon season

Typhoon Wutip was a tropical cyclone that formed on February 18, 2019 and disappeared in March 2, 2019. It caused a lot of destruction in Guam and Micronesia.

The storm formed in mid-February, its intensity reached its peak on February 25, and had the lowest central pressure of any February tropical cyclone, surpassing Higos in 2015.

[[2019 Atlantic hurricane season]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic hurricane seasons, 2019 in weather

The 2019 Atlantic hurricane season was the fourth consecutive season of above-average and damaging seasons dating back to 2016. This hurricane season has 20 tropical cyclones and 18 named storms in total in which tropical cyclones were formed in the Northern Hemisphere at the Atlantic basin. The season officially began on June 1, 2019, and ended on November 30, 2019.

Subtropical Storm Andrea formed on May 20, making 2019 the fifth consecutive season in which storms formed before the official start of the hurricane season; this breaks the record of four consecutive years set in 1951-1954. Barry became the first hurricane of the season in early July. Hurricane Dorian became a first major hurricane of the season in late August, and later became a Category 5 hurricane on September 1, making 2019 the fourth consecutive season to feature at least one Category 5 hurricane (Matthew in 2016; Irma and Maria in 2017; Michael in 2018). Tropical Storm Imelda formed on September 17 and caused catastrophic flooding over Southeast Texas, making Imelda one of the wettest tropical cyclones in U.S. history. Hurricane Lorenzo became a second Category 5 hurricane of the season on September 29, making 2019 one of the Atlantic hurricane seasons to feature more than one Category 5 hurricane; and also, this made Lorenzo the easternmost Category 5 hurricane on record, surpassing Hurricane Hugo in 1989. The season ended with Tropical Storm Sebastian on November 25.

[[Des Coleman]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Cancer survivors, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English singers, English television presenters, BBC people, People from Derby, Actors from Derbyshire

Desune Franklin "Des" Coleman (born 14 March 1975) is a British actor, singer

and weather presenter. He is known for his role of Lenny Wallace in BBC's EastEnders. In 2007, he became the weatherman for BBC's East Midlands Today but was fired in 2011. In 2016, he joined ITV Central's ITV News Central as the weather presenter.

Coleman spent time in prison in his twenties. While at acting school, Coleman was diagnosed with a form of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. He is in remission.

In November 2018, Coleman was rushed to hospital after a collapse due to hemorrhage in the bowels. He underwent surgery to remove tumors in his bowel and spent two days on life-support. He made a recovery three months later in February 2019.

[[2003 Cricket World Cup]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket World Cup

The 2003 ICC Cricket World Cup was the eighth edition of the tournament. It was the first World Cup held in Africa, co-hosted by South Africa, Zimbabwe and Kenya. Australia won the tournament for the third time, defeating India in the final.

[[Dieter Enders]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2019 deaths, German chemists

Dieter Enders (17 March 1946 – 29 June 2019) was a German organic chemist. He was known for his work creating asymmetric synthesis, such as using modified prolines as asymmetric auxiliaries. He was born in Butzbach, Hesse. Enders worked at RWTH Aachen University in Aachen, North Rhine-Westphalia.

Enders died on 29 June 2019 in Aachen at the age of 73.

[[Astrid North]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, German singers, Songwriters, Writers from Berlin

Astrid North (born Astrid Karina North Radmann; 24 August 1973 – 25 June 2019) was a German soul singer and songwriter. She was the singer of the German band Cultured Pearls. She released five albums with them. She was also a guest singer of the band Soulounge for which she published three albums. North was born in Berlin.

North died on 25 June 2019 from pancreatic cancer in Berlin, aged 45.

[[M. J. Radhakrishnan]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Indian cinematographers

M. J. Radhakrishnan (1957/1958 – 12 July 2019) was an Indian cinematographer. He worked in Malayalam movies. He was born in Punalur, Kollam. His best known works included Deshadanam, Karunam and Naalu Pennungal. 

Radhakrishnan died on 12 July 2019 from cardiac arrest at a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala at the age of 61.

[[Claudio Naranjo]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2019 deaths, Chilean scientists, American psychiatrists

Claudio Benjamín Naranjo Cohen (24 November 1932 – 12 July 2019) was a Chilean-born American psychiatrist and writer. He was known as an important person in integrating psychotherapy and the spiritual traditions. He was known as the co-creator of the Enneagram of Personality theories and a founder of the Seekers After Truth Institute. 

Naranjo died on 12 July 2019 at his home in Berkeley, California at the age of 86.

[[Thousand Palms, California]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in California, Settlements in Riverside County, California

Thousand Palms is a census-designated place (CDP) in the Coachella Valley of Riverside County, California, United States. The population was 7,715 at the 2010 census, up from 5,120 at the 2000 census. Thousand Palms is located at 33.816868.

[[Rumen Surdzhiyski]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2019 deaths, Bulgarian writers, Screenwriters, Movie directors

Rumen Ivanov Surdzhiyski (Bulgarian: Ру́мен Ивано́в Сурджийски; 24 September 1943 – 11 July 2019) was a Bulgarian movie director and screenwriter. His career began in 1968. He was born in Glozhene, Vratsa Province, Bulgaria. Surdzhiyski was known for his movies Swan (1976), Snapshots as Souvenirs (1979) and Place Under the Sun (1986).

Surdzhiyski died on 11 July 2019 in Sofia at the age of 75.

[[Asasey hotel attack]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 in Africa, 2019 mass shootings, 2010s explosions in Africa, 2010s murders in Africa, 21st century in Somalia, Al-Shabaab (militant group), Attacks on buildings and structures in 2019, Attacks on hotels, Building bombings in Africa, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2019, Islamic terrorist incidents in Africa, July 2019 events, Mass murder in 2019, Mass murder in Africa, Mass shootings in Africa, Suicide bombings in 2019, Suicide bombings in Africa, Suicide car and truck bombings, Terrorist incidents in Africa in the 2010s

On 12 July 2019, al-Shabaab militants launched an attack on the Asasey hotel in Kismayo, Somalia. 

Two notable journalists were killed in the attack including a Somali Canadian, Hodan Nalayeh. Three Kenyans, three Tanzanians, two Americans and a Briton were also killed in the attack.

[[Hodan Nalayeh]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, 2019 deaths, Murder victims, Television producers, Activists, Canadian philanthropists, Canadian businesspeople, Somali people, People from Toronto

Hodan Nalayeh (Hodan Naalaye; هودان نالايآه;  1976 – July 12, 2019) was a Somali-Canadian media executive, marketing consultant, social activist and businesswoman. She was the President of the Cultural Integration Agency and the Vice President of Sales & Programming Development of Cameraworks Productions International. She was also a television producer who worked on American Idol and So You Think You Can Dance. She was born in Las Anod, Somalia.

She lived in Toronto, Ontario. Nalayeh and her husband Farid were killed during a terrorist attack at Hotel Asasey in Kismayo, Somalia, on July 12, 2019.

[[Plains, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Pennsylvania

Plains is a census-designated place (CDP) in Plains Township, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population of the CDP was 4,335 at the 2010 census, out of 9,961 in the entire township.

[[Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Pennsylvania, 1878 establishments in the United States, Pennsylvania counties

Lackawanna County is a county in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. As of the 2010 census, the population was 214,437. Its county seat and largest city is Scranton.

[[Joseph Edward Kurtz]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, American Roman Catholics, Bishops, People with cancer, People from Scranton, Pennsylvania, People from Knoxville, Tennessee, People from Louisville, Kentucky

Joseph Edward Kurtz (born August 18, 1946) is an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He is the fourth and current Archbishop of Louisville, Kentucky since 2007. He was the Bishop of Knoxville, Tennessee from 1999 to 2007. Kurtz also was the President of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops between 2013 and 2016.

Kurtz was born in Mahanoy City, Pennsylvania. He was raised in Scranton, Pennsylvania. In July 2019, Kurtz was diagnosed with a form of bladder cancer.

[[Mahanoy City, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania

Mahanoy City (pronounced MAHA-noy) is a borough located 38 southwest of Wilkes-Barre and 13 miles southwest of Hazleton. It is located entirely within but is not part of Mahanoy Township. As of the 2010 census, the population was 4,162.

[[Social gadfly]]

CATEGORIES: Words

A social gadfly is a term for people who like to upset the status quo by asking upsetting or original questions. A gadfly tries to stimulate innovation by annoying others. 

This word was coined by Socrates

[[Georgian Bay Islands National Park]]

CATEGORIES: National parks in Canada, 1920s establishments in Canada, 1929 establishments in North America, Geography of Ontario

Georgian Bay Islands National Park (Parc national des Îles-de-la-Baie-Georgienne) is a national park in Simcoe County, Ontario, Canada. The park is made up of 63 different small islands and parts of islands in Georgian Bay near Port Severn, Ontario. The largest island in the park is Beausoleil Island.

[[Orlando Pride]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 establishments

Orlando Pride are are a soccer team founded in 2015. 

[[Chandrayaan-2]]

CATEGORIES: India, Planetary rovers, September 2019 events

Chandrayaan-2, meaning Lunar Craft or Moon Craft, ( Chandrayaan.ogg) is India's second moon mission after Chandrayaan-1. Made by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), the mission was launched from the second launch pad at Satish Dhawan Space Centre on 22 July 2019 at 2:43 PM IST (09:13 UTC) to the Moon by a Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mark III (GSLV Mk III). A proper landing on the lunar south pole would make India the 4th country to achieve a soft landing on the Moon, after the space agencies of the USA, USSR, and China. The mission landing was expected on 7 September 2019 at 01:55 AM IST (6 September 2019, 20:25 UTC)  but crashed when it lost communication at a 2100 metre altitude.

[[Kanchi Natarajan Gandhi]]

CATEGORIES: Botanists

botanist and curator

This author is usually abbreviated «Gandhi» when citing a botanical name.

[[Cisco Systems]]

CATEGORIES: American technology companies, 1984 establishments in California, Companies based  in the San Francisco Bay Area, Multinational technology companies

[[Ratchaburi Province]]

CATEGORIES: Provinces of Thailand

Ratchaburi Province (จังหวัดราชบุรี, t͡ɕāŋ.wàt râːt.t͡ɕʰā.bū.rīː) or Rat Buri (râːt bū.rīː) is one of the western provinces (changwat) of Thailand.

[[Sunninghill Park]]

CATEGORIES: Royal residences in the United Kingdom, Berkshire

Sunninghill Park was a country house and estate of about 665 directly north of Cheapside. 

The early 19th century house burned down in 1947 and a replacement was built in the grounds during the final years of the 1980s to be the official residence of the Duke of York from 1990 until 2004; it was sold in 2007. The house fell into disrepair and was demolished in 2016.

[[SkyTeam Cargo]]

CATEGORIES: Airline alliances

SkyTeam Cargo is a global cargo alliance in which all members are also members of the SkyTeam airline alliance. SkyTeam Cargo is the largest cargo alliance, it competes with the WOW Alliance.

Following the founding of the SkyTeam on 22 June 2000, the creation of its cargo division, SkyTeam Cargo, was announced in September that year. The alliance's inaugural members were Aeroméxico Cargo, Air France Cargo, Delta Air Logistics, and Korean Air Cargo, whose passenger airline operations are members of SkyTeam.

[[Maraging Steel]]

Maraging steels are carbon free iron-nickel alloys with additions of cobalt, molybdenum, titanium and aluminium. The term maraging is derived from the strengthening mechanism, which is transforming the alloy to martensite with subsequent age hardening.

[[2019 Audi Cup]]

CATEGORIES: July 2019 events, 2019 in association football, 2019 in Europe, 2010s in Munich, Audi Cup

The 2019 Audi Cup (the sixth edition of the Audi Cup) will be a two-day football tournament in Munich, Germany. The participating teams are Bayern Munich, Real Madrid, Tottenham Hotspur, and Fenerbahçe.

[[Aranyaka]]

CATEGORIES: Hindu texts

The Aranyakas (ɑː; Sanskrit: āraṇyaka आरण्यक)  is the philosophy behind sacrifice of the ancient Hindu sacred texts, the Vedas. They are usually part of the later parts of Vedas, and are one of many layers of the Vedic text. The other parts of Vedas are the Samhitas (benedictions, hymns), Brahmanas (commentary), and the Upanishads (spirituality and abstract philosophy).

[[Time in India]]

CATEGORIES: Time zones, Time by country

The Republic of India uses one time zone, which is Indian Standard Time (IST). This is 5:30 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time. India does not observe Daylight Saving Time (DST).

[[Eurovision Song Contest 2020]]

CATEGORIES: 2020s in the Netherlands, 2020 in Europe, 2020 in entertainment, Eurovision Song Contest, Rotterdam

The Eurovision Song Contest 2020 is a singing competition that was to be held in The Netherlands, after Duncan Laurence won the Eurovision Song Contest 2019 with the song ”Arcade”.

On 18 March 2020, it was announced that the contest would be cancelled due to the 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic in Europe. It's the first in the history of the contest to be cancelled.

After the show was cancelled, the European Broadcasting Union organised a replacement show called Eurovision: Europe Shine a Light, to show the selected entries in place of the Grand Final on 16 May. Rotterdam has remained as the host city of the next year's contest.

[[Brian Giles]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Baseball players from California, Cleveland Indians players, Living people, Pittsburgh Pirates players, San Diego Padres players

Brian Stephen Giles (JAYH-ulz; born January 20, 1971) is a former Major League Baseball outfielder. During his career he played for the Cleveland Indians, Pittsburgh Pirates and San Diego Padres. The left-handed Giles was a two-time All-Star and had a career line of .291/.400/.502 with 287 home runs, 411 doubles, 1,078 runs batted in (RBI), and 1,183 walks in 1,847 games.  Although a bit suspect with the glove, Giles was a do-it-all batter at the plate, posting one of the highest OPS of all-time.  During his prime, Giles carried a stagnant Pittsburgh Pirates offense as the main batting prowess outside of Aramis Ramírez in the lineup and posted an OPS over 1.  He received MVP votes every year during this time.

Giles was known for his unique, low-crouched batting stance at the plate, similar to Jeff Bagwell.

His younger brother, Marcus Giles, is a former Major League infielder who was most notable for playing with the Atlanta Braves organization.

[[Benito Santiago]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Chicago Cubs players, Cincinnati Reds players, Florida Marlins players, Kansas City Royals players, Living people, National League All-Stars, Philadelphia Phillies players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, San Diego Padres players, San Francisco Giants players, Toronto Blue Jays players

Benito Santiago Rivera (born March 9, 1965) is a Puerto Rican former professional baseball catcher, who played for twenty seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB).  In the late 1980s and early 1990s, Santiago was considered the premier catcher in the National League (NL).  Santiago was not a great batter and showed little pop at the plate, but he is considered one of the greatest defensive catchers of all time.  As a veteran catcher, he was known for his patience with helping rookie pitchers adapt to the new challenges posed by the major leagues.

[[Jason Kendall]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 births, Baseball players from California, Chicago Cubs players, Kansas City Royals players, Living people, Milwaukee Brewers players, National League All-Stars, Oakland Athletics players, Pittsburgh Pirates players, Sportspeople from San Diego, California

Jason Daniel Kendall (born June 26, 1974) is an American former professional baseball catcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1996 through 2010 for the Pittsburgh Pirates, Oakland Athletics, Chicago Cubs, Milwaukee Brewers, and Kansas City Royals. He is the son of former catcher Fred Kendall, who played in the majors from 1969–1980.  Not known for his batting abilities and lacking in power, Kendall was a great defensive catcher.

[[Mike Matheny]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Milwaukee Brewers players, San Francisco Giants players, St. Louis Cardinals players, Toronto Blue Jays players, Sportspeople from Columbus, Ohio, Living people

Michael Scott Matheny (born September 22, 1970) is an American former professional baseball player and manager. He is currently a special adviser for player development for the Kansas City Royals. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for 13 seasons as a catcher for the Milwaukee Brewers, Toronto Blue Jays, St. Louis Cardinals and San Francisco Giants.  Matheny's best years were spent with the Cardinals.  He won four Rawlings Gold Glove Awards.  Matheny holds the National League record for most consecutive games caught without making an error as a catcher.  He is considered one of the greatest defensive catchers of all time.

Matheny later managed the St. Louis Cardinals. As manager, Matheny's teams won one National League (NL) pennant and three NL Central division titles. He bats and throws right-handed, stands 6 feet 3 inches (1.91 m) tall, and weighs 205 pounds (93 kg).

[[Torii Hunter]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, African-American baseball players, American League All-Stars, American baseball players, Detroit Tigers players, Living people, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim players, Los Angeles Angels players, Minnesota Twins players, Sportspeople from Arkansas

Torii Kedar Hunter (/ˈtɔːriː/; born July 18, 1975) is an American former professional baseball center fielder and right fielder. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Minnesota Twins, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, and Detroit Tigers from 1997 through 2015. Hunter was a five-time All-Star, won a major league record nine consecutive Gold Glove Awards as a center fielder, and was a two-time Silver Slugger Award winner.  Hunter was known for his trademark ability to rob batters of home runs at the outfield wall, particularly as the center fielder for the Twins.  Hunter is regarded as arguably the greatest defensive outfielder of all time.

[[Escort agency]]

CATEGORIES: Sex industry, Security

An escort agency is a company that provides escorts for clients, usually for sexual services. Individual girls who provide this kind of service are known as call girls. The practice is close to being prostitution.

There are escort agencies which provide escorts  for occasions or for a visit to an event. This is a more legitimate service. Such agencies provide security, especially for females attending an event.

[[Tracy Edwards]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, Living people, Members of the Order of the British Empire

Tracy Edwards is a sailboat racer. In 1989 she organized an 12-woman crew to participate in the Whitbread Round the World Race. It was rare for women to sail in those days. The duration of this race was nine months.

A documentary called Maiden was made about the race.

[[Oak Hill Cemetery (Lawrence, Kansas)]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Kansas, Cemeteries in the United States, Lawrence, Kansas, National Register of Historic Places in Douglas County, Kansas, 1866 establishments in Kansas

The Oak Hill Cemetery is a cemetery in Lawrence, Kansas. It was first created as a way for the people of Lawrence to remember those who were killed in Quantrill's Raid. Some famous  people from Kansas are buried there. They include Charles L. Robinson, John P. Usher, and James H. Lane. It was built in 1866.

[[Adriano Andreani]]

CATEGORIES: 1879 births, 1960 deaths, Italian Olympians, Gymnasts

Adriano Andreani (14 September 1879 – 20 October 1960) was an Italian gymnast. He competed in the men's team event at the 1908 Summer Olympics.

[[William Bonin]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 1996 deaths, 20th century crimes, American criminals, American military personnel of the Vietnam War, American people convicted of murder, American prisoners sentenced to death, American rapists, American serial killers, Child sexual abusers, Executed American serial killers, Gay men, People executed by lethal injection, People with antisocial personality disorder, Rapists, Serial killers

William George Bonin (8 January 1947-23 February, 1996) also known as The Freeway Killer was an American serial killer. He raped, tortured, and killed of at least 21 children and young people in 1979 and 1980 in Southern California. Bonin is also suspected of 15 more murders. Described by the prosecutor in his first trial as "the most diabolical person that ever existed," Bonin was convicted of 14 murders in two separate trials in 1982 and 1983. He was executed by lethal injection in San Quentin State Prison on February 23, 1996.

[[Manu Ginóbili]]

CATEGORIES: 1977 births, Argentine people, Competitors at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Competitors at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Living people, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Medalists at the 2008 Summer Olympics, Olympic bronze medalists, Olympic gold medalists, San Antonio Spurs players, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

Emanuel David Ginóbili (born 28 July 1977) is an Argentine retired professional basketball player. Over a 23-season professional career, he became one of only two players to have won a EuroLeague title, an NBA championship, and an Olympic gold medal. A four-time NBA champion, Ginóbili was a member of the San Antonio Spurs for his entire NBA career. Along with Spurs teammates Tim Duncan and Tony Parker, he was known as one of the "Big Three".

Ginóbili comes from a family of professional basketball players. He spent the early part of his career in Argentina and Italy, where he holds dual citizenship, and won several individual and team honors. His stint with Italian club Kinder Bologna was particularly successful; he won two Italian League MVP awards, the EuroLeague Finals MVP and the 2001 EuroLeague championship and Triple Crown. Selected as the 57th overall pick in the 1999 NBA draft, Ginóbili joined the Spurs in 2002, and soon became a key player for the team. In addition to his four NBA championships, Ginóbili was named an All-Star in 2005 and 2011, and has been selected twice for the All-NBA Team. In 2007–08, he was named the NBA Sixth Man of the Year. Ginóbili announced his retirement on 27 August 2018.

[[Sonic Team]]

CATEGORIES: Sega divisions and subsidiaries

Sega CS Research and Development No. 2, often abbreviated as Sega CS2 R&D and known as Sonic Team, is a video game development division of the Japanese company Sega. Sonic Team is best known for the Sonic the Hedgehog series. They are also known for making games such as Nights into Dreams and Phantasy Star Online.

[[Jason Richardson]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, African-American basketball players, Charlotte Bobcats players, Golden State Warriors players, Orlando Magic players, Philadelphia 76ers players, Phoenix Suns players, Sportspeople from Michigan, People from Saginaw, Michigan, Living people, American basketball players

Jason Anthoney Richardson (born January 20, 1981) is an American former professional basketball player who played 14 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Richardson was taken by the Golden State Warriors as the fifth overall pick in the 2001 NBA draft after playing college basketball for Michigan State University. He won the NBA Dunk Contest in both 2002 and 2003, becoming the second player, after Michael Jordan, to win the competition back-to-back. Richardson has also played for the Charlotte Bobcats, Phoenix Suns, Orlando Magic, and the Philadelphia 76ers.

[[Kemba Walker]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, African-American basketball players, Boston Celtics players, Charlotte Bobcats players, Sportspeople from New York City, People from the Bronx, Living people, American basketball players

Kemba Hudley Walker (born May 8, 1990) is an American professional basketball player for the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Walker was drafted ninth overall by the Charlotte Bobcats. Walker grew up in The Bronx, New York, and graduated from Rice High School in 2008. He played college basketball for the Connecticut Huskies. In the 2010–11 season, Walker was a consensus first-team All-American. He was the second-leading college basketball scorer in the nation and led the Huskies to the 2011 NCAA championship and was named the tournament's most outstanding player. He is a three-time NBA All-Star.

[[Chauncey Billups]]

CATEGORIES: 1976 births, African-American basketball players, Boston Celtics players, Denver Nuggets players, Detroit Pistons players, Los Angeles Clippers players, Minnesota Timberwolves players, New York Knicks players, Orlando Magic players, Toronto Raptors players, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers, Sportspeople from Denver, Colorado, Living people, American basketball players

Chauncey Ray Billups (born September 25, 1976) is retired American professional basketball player.  He played 17 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA). A star at the University of Colorado Boulder, he was selected third overall in the 1997 NBA draft by the Boston Celtics. A five-time NBA All-Star and a three-time All-NBA selection, Billups played for the Boston Celtics, Toronto Raptors, Denver Nuggets, Minnesota Timberwolves, Detroit Pistons, New York Knicks, and Los Angeles Clippers during his NBA career. He won the NBA Finals MVP in 2004 after helping the Pistons beat the Los Angeles Lakers in the Finals, and was given the nickname "Mr. Big Shot" for making late-game shots with Detroit. The Pistons retired his #1 jersey in 2016.

In 2004, Billups was honored by the University of Colorado by being the fifth player to have his jersey (number 4) retired.

[[Fausto Sozzini]]

CATEGORIES: 1539 births, 1604 deaths, Christian theologians, Italian philosophers, Nontrinitarianism, People from Siena, Protestant Reformation, Protestantism, Protestants, Unitarianism, Unitarians

Fausto Paolo Sozzini, also known as Faustus Socinus or Faust Socyn, was an Italian theologian and founder of the school of Christian thought known as Socinianism and the main theologian of the Minor Reformed Church of Poland.

[[Glen Davis]]

CATEGORIES: 1986 births, African-American basketball players, Boston Celtics players, Los Angeles Clippers players, Orlando Magic players, Sportspeople from Louisiana, People from Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Living people

Ronald Glen "Big Baby" Davis (born January 1, 1986) is an American professional basketball player for the St. John's Edge of the National Basketball League of Canada. He played for the Boston Celtics, Orlando Magic and Los Angeles Clippers in the National Basketball Association (NBA).

After playing college basketball with LSU, Davis was selected by the Seattle SuperSonics with the 35th overall pick in the 2007 NBA draft. Shortly thereafter, he was traded to the Boston Celtics, with whom he won the 2008 NBA Finals.

[[Emeka Okafor]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, African-American basketball players, New Orleans Hornets players, New Orleans Pelicans players, Philadelphia 76ers players, Washington Wizards players, American Olympic bronze medalists, American Olympic medalists, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Charlotte Bobcats players, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas, Living people, American basketball players

Chukwuemeka Ndubuisi "Emeka" Okafor (born September 28, 1982) is an American professional basketball player. Okafor attended Bellaire High School in Bellaire, Texas and the University of Connecticut, where in 2004 he won a national championship. Okafor played for the University of Connecticut from 2001 to 2004 where he was teammates with Charlie Villanueva, Marcus Williams, Ben Gordon, Hilton Armstrong and Josh Boone, who all went on to play in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He majored in finance during his time at Connecticut, and he graduated with honors after three years in May 2004 with a 3.8 GPA. Okafor was named the Academic All-American of the Year in 2004 for his work on and off the court. On February 5, 2007, he was inducted to the Husky Ring Of Honor at Gampel Pavilion on the University of Connecticut campus in Storrs during halftime of the men's basketball game against the Syracuse Orange as part of a ceremony which recognized personal accomplishments of 13 former players and 3 coaches.

[[Boris Diaw]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, French Olympians, Atlanta Hawks players, Charlotte Bobcats players, Phoenix Suns players, San Antonio Spurs players, Utah Jazz players, Competitors at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Competitors at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Living people

Boris Babacar Diaw-Riffiod, better known as Boris Diaw (born April 16, 1982), is a French retired professional basketball player. Diaw, who began his professional career in Pro A, returned to that league after 14 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He plays mostly at power forward. In 2006, Diaw was named the NBA's Most Improved Player as a member of the Phoenix Suns. He won an NBA championship with the San Antonio Spurs in 2014. He is the current president of Metropolitans 92.

Diaw represents the senior French national basketball team internationally. He won a FIBA World Cup bronze medal in 2014, a EuroBasket title in 2013, a silver medal in EuroBasket 2011, and two bronze in EuroBasket 2005 and EuroBasket 2015. He earned an All-EuroBasket Team selection in 2005.

[[Amar'e Stoudemire]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, African-American basketball players, American Olympic bronze medalists, American Olympic gold medalists, Dallas Mavericks players, Jewish American sportspeople, Jewish Israeli sportspeople, Living people, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Miami Heat players, National Basketball Association high school draftees, Naturalized citizens of Israel, New York Knicks players, Phoenix Suns players, Sportspeople from Orlando, Florida, American basketball players

Amar'e Carsares Stoudemire (born November 16, 1982) is an American-Israeli professional basketball player who last played for Hapoel Jerusalem of the Israeli Premier League and the Basketball Champions League. He won the NBA Rookie of the Year Award in 2003 with the Phoenix Suns, who selected him with the ninth overall pick of the 2002 NBA draft. He made six appearances in the NBA All-Star Game and was named to the All-NBA Team five times, including one first-team selection in 2007.

Stoudemire played high school basketball for five different schools, ultimately graduating from Cypress Creek High School in Orlando, Florida, and declaring for the NBA draft as a prep-to-pro player. He won several prep honors, including being selected as Florida's Mr. Basketball. The highly athletic Stoudemire suffered from chronic knee problems during his career and underwent microfracture surgery on both knees. He played for the Suns, the New York Knicks, the Dallas Mavericks, and the Miami Heat before retiring from the NBA in 2016.

Stoudemire won a bronze medal with the United States national team at the 2004 Olympic Games. His off-court ventures include a record label, a clothing line, acting and a series of children's books for Scholastic Press. In addition, Stoudemire owns a significant share of Hapoel Jerusalem, the team he won a championship with in 2017.

[[Shawn Marion]]

CATEGORIES: 1978 births, African-American basketball players, American Olympic bronze medalists, Medalists at the 2004 Summer Olympics, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Dallas Mavericks players, Miami Heat players, Phoenix Suns players, Toronto Raptors players, Sportspeople from Illinois, People from Waukegan, Illinois, Living people, American basketball players

Shawn Dwayne Marion (born May 7, 1978) is an American former professional basketball player who played 16 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Marion finished his career as a four-time NBA All-Star and a one-time NBA champion, helping the Dallas Mavericks win their maiden title in 2011. Nicknamed "The Matrix" by former NBA player Kenny Smith during the preseason of his rookie year, he was widely regarded as one of the most versatile players in the league because of his athleticism and ability to play and defend many positions. He was also known for his unorthodox shooting form.

[[Leandro Barbosa]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, Boston Celtics players, Brazilian Olympians, Competitors at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Competitors at the 2016 Summer Olympics, Golden State Warriors players, Indiana Pacers players, Living people, People from São Paulo, Phoenix Suns players, Toronto Raptors players, Washington Wizards players

Leandro Mateus Barbosa (born November 28, 1982), also known as Leandrinho Barbosa, is a Brazilian professional basketball player for Minas of the Novo Basquete Brasil (NBB). He also represented the senior Brazilian national basketball team. He previously won the NBA Sixth Man of the Year Award, with the Suns in 2007, and an NBA championship with the Golden State Warriors, in 2015. In Brazil, he is also commonly known by his nickname "Leandrinho" ("Little Leandro") Barbosa, and in the USA he is nicknamed "The Brazilian Blur", referring to his playing speed. At a height of 1.92 m (6' 33⁄4") tall, he plays at the shooting guard position.

[[Robert Horry]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, African-American basketball players, American basketball players, Houston Rockets players, Living people, Los Angeles Lakers players, National Basketball Association broadcasters, People from Maryland, Phoenix Suns players, San Antonio Spurs players

Robert Keith Horry (born August 25, 1970) is an American retired basketball player and current sports commentator. He played 16 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA), winning seven championships, the most of any player not to have played on the 1960s Boston Celtics. He is one of only two players (the other is John Salley) to have won NBA championships with three teams: two with the Houston Rockets, three with the Los Angeles Lakers and two with the San Antonio Spurs.  He earned the nickname Big Shot Bob12 because of his clutch shooting in important games; he is widely considered to be one of the greatest clutch performers and winners in NBA history. Horry now works as a commentator on Spectrum SportsNet.

[[Brent Barry]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 births, Basketball players from California, Chicago Bulls players, Denver Nuggets players, Houston Rockets players, Living people, Los Angeles Clippers players, Miami Heat players, San Antonio Spurs players, Seattle SuperSonics players, People from Concord, California

Brent Robert Barry (born December 31, 1971), commonly known by the nickname Bones, is an American basketball executive, broadcaster and former player. He is the current vice president of basketball operations for the San Antonio Spurs. The 6 ft 7 in (2.01 m), 210 lb (95 kg; 15 st) shooting guard played professionally in the National Basketball Association, winning two championships with the Spurs, and also won the 1996 NBA Slam Dunk Contest. He is the son of former NBA player Rick Barry.

After retiring, Barry worked as a sports commentator for the NBA on TNT and was a studio host for the NBA TV show NBA Gametime. In 2018, he returned to the Spurs as an executive.

[[Charles Levin (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2019 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Chicago

Charles Levin (March 12, 1949 – July 8, 2019) was an American actor. He was best known for the role of Elliot Novak on the series Alice and as Eddie Gregg on Hill Street Blues from 1982 to 1986. Levin has guest roles on The Golden Girls, Seinfeld, Punky Brewster, Law & Order and Designing Women.

On July 8, 2019, it was revealed that Levin has been missing for several days. His car was found on July 12 near Selma, Oregon. On July 14, at the age of 70.

[[Selma, Oregon]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Oregon, Census-designated places in Oregon

Selma is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Josephine County, Oregon, United States. As of the 2010 census it had a population of 695. It is located in the ZIP code of 97538.

[[Gerald Weissmann]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Austrian scientists, American physicians, American educators, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American essayists, Writers from Vienna, Writers from Massachusetts, Scientists from Massachusetts

Gerald Weissmann (August 7, 1930 – July 10, 2019) was an Austrian-born American physician, editor, and essayist. He was Professor Emeritus and Research Professor of Medicine (Rheumatology) at New York University School of Medicine. He was Editor-in-Chief (2006–16) of The FASEB Journal. 

In 1965, Weissmann was one of the discoverers of Liposomes. He was born in Vienna, Austria. Weissmann died on July 10, 2019 in Cambridge, Massachusetts at the age of 88.

[[Jean-Pierre Worms]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2019 deaths, French politicians, European sociologists

Jean-Pierre Worms (16 July 1934 – 12 July 2019) was a French sociologist and politician. He was born in Courbevoie, Hauts-de-Seine. Worms was a Deputy from 1981 to 1993.

Worms died on 12 July 2019 at the age of 84.

[[Augusto Fantozzi]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2019 deaths, Italian businesspeople, Italian lawyers, Politicians from Rome

Augusto Fantozzi (24 June 1940 – 13 July 2019) was an Italian lawyer, tax expert, academic, businessman and politician. He was Minister of Economy and Finance from 1995 to 1996. He was also Minister of Foreign Trade from 1996 to 1998. Fantozzi was born in Rome. He was a member of The Olive Tree.

Fantozzi died on 13 July 2019 in Rome at the age of 79.

[[Sadashiv Vasantrao Gorakshkar]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2019 deaths, Indian critics, Art critics

Sadashiv Vasantrao Gorakshkar (31 May 1933 – 13 July 2019) was an Indian writer, art critic, museologist and a director of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya. He was known for his restoration of Lakshmibai Pitre Kalasangrahalaya, a museum in Devrukh, Maharashtra to its present state.

Gorakshkar was honoured by the Government of India in 2003 with Padma Shri, the fourth highest Indian civilian award.

Gorakshkar died on 13 July 2019 in Maharashtra at the age 86.

[[Rod Richards]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Welsh politicians

Roderick Richards (12 March 1947 – 13 July 2019) was a British politician. He was a Conservative before joining UK Independence Party in 2013. He was the Conservative Member of Parliament for Clwyd North West, in Wales, from 1992 to 1997. 

Richards was also the Conservative leader in the National Assembly for Wales in 1999, after being elected as an Assembly Member for North Wales. He was born in Llanelli, Wales.

Richards died on 13 July 2019 in Penarth, Wales of cancer, aged 72.

[[Terry Hodgkinson]]

CATEGORIES: 1949 births, 2019 deaths, British businesspeople

Terry Hodgkinson (30 March 1949 – 13 July 2019) was a British businessman. He was the Chairman of Yorkshire Forward, the Regional Development Agency for Yorkshire and the Humber. He was appointed on 14 December 2003 and stepped down in December 2010.

Hodgkinson died on 13 July 2019 at the age of 70.

[[Nereo Laroni]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, Former MEPs, Italian politicians, Mayors, People from Venice

Nereo Laroni (2 September 1942 – 14 July 2019) was an Italian politician. Laroni was a member of the Italian Socialist Party and close ally of Bettino Craxi and Gianni De Michelis. He was the mayor of Venice from 1985 to 1987 and a member of the European Parliament from 1987 to 1994.

Laroni died on 14 July 2019 in Mestre, at age 76, of problems from heart surgery.

[[Richard Carter (actor)]]

CATEGORIES: 1953 births, 2019 deaths, Australian movie actors, Australian television actors, Australian stage actors, Australian voice actors, Actors from Sydney

Richard Carter (11 December 1953 – 13 July 2019) was an Australian actor. He was born in Sydney. His best known roles were in Rabbit-Proof Fence, Hating Alison Ashley, Babe: Pig in the City, Happy Feet Two, Our Lips Are Sealed, The Great Gatsby and Mad Max: Fury Road.

Carter died in the early hours of 13 July 2019 after a brief-illness at the age of 65.

[[Greg Daniels]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, American television producers, American television writers, American television directors, Emmy Award winners, Harvard University alumni, Writers from New York City

Gregory Martin Daniels (born June 13, 1963) is an American television comedy writer, producer, and director. He is known for his work on many television series, including Saturday Night Live, The Simpsons, Parks and Recreation, King of the Hill and The Office. 

Daniels was born in New York City. He studied at Harvard University. His brother-in-law is Paul Lieberstein. Daniels won two Emmy Awards for his writing.

[[Bahasa Jawa Indramayu]]

CATEGORIES: Regional languages in Indonesia

Bahasa Jawa Indramayu is a Javanese dialect used in the district of Indramayu, west Java province, Indonesia. The number of speakers reaches 2 million users..

[[Communications Act]]

Communications Act may refer to:

[[Bennett's tree-kangaroo]]

CATEGORIES: Macropods

Bennett's tree-kangaroo (Dendrolagus bennettianus) is a large tree-kangaroo. Males can weigh from 11.5 kg up to almost 14 kg (25 to 31 lbs),  and female about 8 to 10.6 kg (17.6 to 23 lbs). They are very agile and are able to leap 9 metres (30 ft) down to another branch. They have been known to drop as far as 18 metres (59 ft) to the ground without injury.

[[Kameda College of Health Sciences]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Japan

Kameda College of Health Sciences is a private university in Japan. The campus is located in Kamogawa, Chiba, Chiba. It opened in April 2012.

[[M-185 (Michigan highway)]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Michigan, Roads in the United States

M-185 is a state highway in the U.S. state of Michigan. It circles Mackinac Island. Mackinac Island is a popular tourist place on the Lake Huron side of the Straits of Mackinac. The highway is along the island's coast. The highway is a thin paved road that is 8.004 long. There are scenic views of the straits that divide the Upper and the Lower peninsulas of Michigan. It also has views of Lakes Huron and Michigan. It doesn't connect to any other Michigan state highways. This is because it is on an island. People can only get to it by passenger ferry.

The Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) says that the M-185 is "the only state highway in the nation where motor vehicles are banned". Traffic on it is by foot, on horse, by horse-drawn vehicle, or by bicycle. Cars have been banned on the island since the 1890s. Only a few vehicles have been allowed on the island other than the city's emergency vehicles. The highway was built during the first decade of the 20th century by the state. It was designated as a state highway in 1933. The highway was paved in the 1950s. Parts were rebuilt to deal with coastal erosion in the 1980s. Until an accident in 2005, it was the only state highway without any car accidents.

[[Monowi, Nebraska]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Nebraska

Monowi (ˈ MON) is an incorporated village in Boyd County, Nebraska, United States. In 2010, only one person lived there. It is the only city in the United States with only one person living there.

The name Monowi means "flower" in an unknown Native American language. Monowi was named after the many wildflowers growing at the original place of the village.

[[People-watching]]

CATEGORIES: Anthropology

People-watching or crowd watching is the act of observing people and their interactions. Usually, the person being watched is not aware of the watcher. For some people, it is considered a hobby; other people think it is a subconscious activity, meaning it is something others do everyday without knowing it.

[[Cherokee Strip (Kansas)]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Kansas

The Cherokee Strip of Kansas, in the United States, was a disputed strip of land on the southern border of Kansas.

[[Southeast Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Kansas

Southeast Kansas is a region of the U.S. state of Kansas. It can be generally defined by Woodson County in the northwest, Bourbon County in the northeast, Cherokee County in the southeast, and Montgomery County in the southwest. Geographically it mostly has broad rolling landscape located between the Flint Hills to the west and includes the Ozarks to the southeast. Some notable towns there include Pittsburg, Parsons, Coffeyville, Independence, Chanute, Fort Scott, and Iola.

The first people to live there were some Native American tribes. Others included frontier towns that relied on cattle ranching and mining. They were hurt by violence over the issue of slavery. This happened both before and during the American Civil War (see Bleeding Kansas). The most common type of mining in Southeast Kansas was coal mining. This contributed to the amount of coal found. It also contributed to the quality and thickness of coal in Southeast Kansas.  Southeast Kansas has one of the well-made recreations of early life in the United States Army at Fort Scott National Historic Site. 

[[East-Central Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Kansas

East-Central Kansas is a region of Kansas. It is between the Kansas City metropolitan area and Southeast Kansas, and it is on the border with Missouri. The region goes west to the Flint Hills to Lyon County. East-Central Kansas geographically has rolling hills and deep forested river valleys. The main crop of this very agricultural region is corn. The area is more forested and more moist compared to the rest of the state. East-Central Kansas has a lot of history. This is because many places in this region saw battles in Bleeding Kansas. It is also because the abolitionist John Brown and his men fought in Osawatomie. Much of the area is powered by Wolf Creek Nuclear Generating Station. It is near Burlington. The most populous cities of the region include Emporia, Ottawa, Paola, Osawatomie, Garnett, Osage City, Burlington, and Louisburg.

The region includes the following seven counties:

[[North Central Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Regions of Kansas

North Central Kansas is a tourism and geographical region of the state of Kansas. It has 15 counties. Over 150,000 people live there. The Salina micropolitan area is part of North Central Kansas. The region goes from the Nebraska border in the north to Russell, Ellsworth, Saline, and Dickinson Counties in the south. Its western border includes Smith, Osborne, and Russell Counties, and its eastern border Dickinson, Clay, Washington, and Marshall Counties.

The 15 counties included in the region are:

[[Double agent]]

CATEGORIES: Espionage

A double agent is someone sent to work as a spy against another country but is secretly spying on the country that he or she works for on behalf of the country he or she is supposed to be spying on.

[[Jacksboro, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Jacksboro is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Jack County.

[[Morton, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Morton is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Cochran County.

[[Moderate]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

Moderates are people who support some conservative positions and some liberal ones.

[[Education in Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas, Education

Education in Kansas is controlled at the primary and secondary school level by the Kansas State Board of Education.  Kansas's public colleges and universities are controlled by the Kansas Board of Regents.

[[Milhouse Van Houten]]

CATEGORIES: The Simpsons characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1988

Milhouse Van Houten is a fictional character on the animated television series the Simpsons.  Milhouse has blue hair and very large eyebrows.  Milhouse is Bart Simpson's best friend and sidekick.  Milhouse is allergic to many things.  Milhouse is constantly savagely bullied particularly by Nelson Muntz.  Milhouse has a crush on Lisa Simpson who does not feel the same way about him.  Even though Milhouse is described by Lisa as "the class nerd" Milhouse tells Bart that "I'm not a nerd! Nerds are smart."  Milhouse' parents Kirk and Luan get divorced.  Milhouse is extremely insecure.  Milhouse is routinely humiliated by the bullies.  On one occasion, Bart tells Milhouse that he is surprised to see him since he thought he had a " three-o-clock wedgie with Nelson and Milhouse says "I had to reschedule."  Milhouse is easily reduced to crying even though he is allergic to his own tears.  Milhouse has very large round glasses.  Bart has on more than one occasion let Milhouse take the fall for something Bart did.  Though in the episode "Little Orphan Millie" Bart admits that he actually cares about Milhouse by saying "I love him. I love him so much."

[[Nerd]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s, 1990s, 2000s, American culture, Anthropology, Internet culture, Lifestyles, Pejoratives, Slang, Society, Subculture, Video games

Nerd is a noun often used as an insult, to describe people who are seen as being weird, obsessive or antisocial. The first ever usage of the word "nerd" is in the year 1950 in the children's book If I Ran the Zoo by Dr. Seuss where it is one of the fictional animals the narrator would put in the zoo if he were running it.  An article of Newsweek Magazine published in 1951 said that the word "nerd" was used as a synonym for the slang word "square" which was at the time a popular pejorative.  By the 1960's the phrase "nerd" meaning someone who was intelligent but strange and antisocial especially if this person were interested in science-fiction was used throughout the United States and even in Scotland.  In the 1970's it became extremely common to use the phrase "nerd" because it was routinely used in the television sitcom Happy Days. People labeled as nerds tend to be bullied in school more often than others are.  In 1984, there was a movie called Revenge of the Nerds as a social commentary.  A number of fictional characters such as Dilton Doiley, Peter Parker, Milhouse Van Houten and Hermione Granger are sometimes described as nerds.

[[Parsons, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Labette County, Kansas

Parsons is a city in Labette County, Kansas, United States. In 2010, 10,500 people lived there. It is the biggest city in Labette County. It is the second biggest city in the southeastern region of Kansas.

[[Coffeyville, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Montgomery County, Kansas, 1869 establishments in Kansas

Coffeyville is a city in southeastern Montgomery County, Kansas, United States, located along the Verdigris River in the state's southeastern region.  As of the 2010 census, the city population was 10,295.  It is the most populous city of Montgomery County and with its southeast Kansas location is in the Tulsa, Oklahoma media market.  The town of South Coffeyville, Oklahoma is located approximately 1 mile south of the city, existing as a separate political entity immediately south of the state line.

[[Mission, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kansas

Mission is a city in Johnson County, Kansas, United States. It is part of the Kansas City Metropolitan Area. In 2010, 9,323 lived there.

[[Takenoshin Nakai]]

CATEGORIES: Botanists, Japanese biologists

Takenoshin Nakai (ja:中井猛之進) was a Japanese botanist. He published papers on the plants of Japan and Korea.

[[Harry Osborn]]

CATEGORIES: Animated characters, Fictional characters introduced in the 1960s, Fictional criminals, Marvel Comics superheroes, Movie characters, Spider-Man

Harry Osborn is a fictional character appearing in Marvel Comics created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko for the Amazing Spider-Man #31 in 1965.  He is the son of Norman Osborn and his mother died in childbirth. His father blames him for her death and as such is dismissive and impatient with him. Harry constantly tries and fails to win his father's approval. 

Harry meets Peter Parker at University and at first can't stand him.  He later gets to know him better and becomes his best friend.  Harry's father Norman then becomes the supervillain the Green Goblin and Harry starts to use drugs.  Green Goblin then kills Spider-Man's girlfriend Gwen Stacy and accidentally kills himself during a battle with Spider-Man.  Harry blames Spider-Man for his father's death and wants to get revenge by becoming a supervillain the second Green Goblin.

[[Tasty]]

Tasty may refer to:

[[Ousmane Tanor Dieng]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2019 deaths, Disease-related deaths in France, Senegalese politicians, Socialist politicians, Socialist International

Ousmane Tanor Dieng (January 2, 1947 – July 15, 2019) was a Senegalese politician. He was the First Secretary of the Socialist Party of Senegal.  He was vice-president of the Socialist International from 1996 until his death. Dieng was born in Nguéniène, Senegal. He was a candidate for President in the February 2007 election.

Dieng died on July 15, 2019 from a short-illness in France at the age of 72.

[[Paul Albert Zipfel]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from dementia, Disease-related deaths in Missouri, American Roman Catholics, Bishops, People from St. Louis, Missouri, People from Bismarck, North Dakota

Paul Albert Zipfel (September 22, 1935 – July 14, 2019) was an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He was the sixth Bishop of Bismarck, North Dakota. Zipfel was born in St. Louis, Missouri.

Zipfel died on July 14, 2019 in Normandy, Missouri from dementia at the age of 83.

[[Normandy, Missouri]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Missouri

Normandy is a city in St. Louis County, Missouri, United States. The population was 5,008 at the 2010 census.

[[Pernell Whitaker]]

CATEGORIES: 1964 births, 2019 deaths, Road accident deaths in the United States, American boxers, American Olympic gold medalists, Sportspeople from St. Louis, Missouri

Pernell Whitaker (January 2, 1964 – July 14, 2019) was an American professional boxer. He was born in St. Louis, Missouri.

Whitaker was a four-weight world champion, having won titles at lightweight, light welterweight, welterweight, and light middleweight; the undisputed lightweight title; and the lineal lightweight and welterweight titles. He holds the longest unified lightweight championship reign in boxing history at 6 title defenses. Whitaker was seen as one of the greatest defensive boxers of all-time.

Whitaker won a silver medal in the lightweight division at the 1982 World Championships, followed by gold at the 1983 Pan American Games and 1984 Olympics. He retired in 2001.

Whitaker was killed after being hit by a car in Virginia Beach, Virginia on July 14, 2019 at the age of 55.

[[Paul F. Markham]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, American lawyers, Politicians from Boston, Massachusetts, US Democratic Party politicians

Paul F. Markham (May 22, 1930 – July 13, 2019) was an American attorney. He was the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts from 1966 to 1969. Markham was born in Boston, Massachusetts. 

Markham was a key figure in the Chappaquiddick incident as he was with Senator Ted Kennedy during the incident. He played a key defense in Kennedy's favor.

Markham died on July 13, 2019 in Peabody, Massachusetts at the age of 89.

[[Janet Gaynor]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, 1906 births, 1984 deaths, Road accident deaths in California, American painters, American silent movie actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Janet Gaynor (born Laura Augusta Gainor; October 6, 1906 – September 14, 1984) was an American actress and painter. She was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. In 1929, she was the first winner of the Academy Award for Best Actress for her roles in the movies 7th Heaven (1927), Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans (1927), and Street Angel (1928).

Gaynor was known for her role as Esther Blodgett/Vicki Lester in the 1937 movie A Star Is Born.

In September 1982, Gaynor and her husband were seriously injured in a car crash after a drunk driver crashed their car. She died two years after the crash on September 14, 1984 in Palm Springs, California from problems caused by her injuries at the age of 77.

[[Simone Signoret]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Emmy Award winning actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, 1921 births, 1985 deaths, French movie actors, French television actors, French stage actors, Deaths from pancreatic cancer

Simone Signoret (simɔn siɲɔʁɛ; 25 March 1921spaced ndash30 September 1985) was a French actress. She became the second French person to win an Academy Award, for her role in Room at the Top (1959).

Signoret won two Césars, three BAFTAs, an Emmy, a Cannes Film Festival Award, the Silver Bear for Best Actress awards, an NBR Award  and a Golden Globe nomination.

[[Roberto Benigni]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, BAFTA Award winning actors, 1952 births, Living people, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, Italian voice actors, Comedians, Italian screenwriters, Italian movie directors

Roberto Remigio Benigni Cavaliere di Gran Croce OMRI (roˈbɛrto beˈniɲɲi; born 27 October 1952) is an Italian actor, comedian, screenwriter and director.  He is known for writing, directing and starring in Life Is Beautiful, for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor.

[[Paul Lukas]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Golden Globe Award winning actors, 1894 births, 1971 deaths, Hungarian movie actors, Hungarian television actors, Hungarian stage actors, Actors from Budapest

Paul Lukas (born Pál Lukács; May 26, 1894 – August 15, 1971) was a Hungarian actor. He won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Watch on the Rhine (1943).

[[Robert Donat]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, 1905 births, 1958 deaths, Deaths from cerebral thrombosis, Deaths from brain cancer, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from London

Friedrich Robert Donat (18 March 1905 – 9 June 1958) was an English actor. He is best known for his roles in Alfred Hitchcock's The 39 Steps (1935) and Goodbye, Mr. Chips (1939). He won the Academy Award for Best Actor in 1939.

[[Paul Muni]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, Tony Award winning actors, 1895 births, 1967 deaths, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Chicago, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California

Paul Muni (born Frederich Meshilem Meier Weisenfreund; September 22, 1895 – August 25, 1967) was an American actor. He won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in the 1936 movie The Story of Louis Pasteur.

[[Victor McLaglen]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1959 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Naturalized citizens of the United States, British movie actors, British television actors, British stage actors, British activists, American activists, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from London

Victor Andrew de Bier Everleigh McLaglen (10 December 1886 – 7 November 1959) was a British-American actor and activist. He was known for winning the Academy Award for Best Actor in 1935 for his role in The Informer.

[[Wallace Beery]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, 1885 births, 1949 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Cardiovascular disease deaths in California, American silent movie actors, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, Actors from Missouri

Wallace Fitzgerald Beery (April 1, 1885 – April 15, 1949) was an American actor. He is best known for his roles of Bill in Min and Bill (1930), as Long John Silver in Treasure Island (1934), as Pancho Villa in Viva Villa! (1934), and as Andy Purcell in The Champ (1931), for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor.

[[George Arliss]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 births, 1946 deaths, Deaths from bronchopneumonia, English playwrights, English autobiographers, Academy Award winning actors, English movie actors, English stage actors, Actors from London, Movie directors from London, Writers from London

George Arliss (born Augustus George Andrews, 10 April 1868 – 5 February 1946) was an English actor, author, playwright and filmmaker. He was known for his role as British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli in Disraeli (1929), for which he won an Academy Award for Best Actor.

[[Warner Baxter]]

CATEGORIES: Academy Award winning actors, 1889 births, 1951 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Disease-related deaths in Los Angeles, American silent movie actors, American stage actors, American movie actors, Actors from Columbus, Ohio

Warner Leroy Baxter (March 29, 1889 – May 7, 1951) was an American movie actor. Baxter became known for his role as The Cisco Kid in the 1928 movie In Old Arizona, for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor at the 2nd Academy Awards.

[[Emil Jannings]]

CATEGORIES: 1884 births, 1950 deaths, German movie actors, German television actors, German stage actors, Deaths from liver cancer, Academy Award winning actors

Emil Jannings (born Theodor Friedrich Emil Janenz, 23 July 1884 – 2 January 1950) was a German actor. He won the first Academy Award for Best Actor at the 1st Academy Awards for his roles as Duke Sergius Alexander in The Last Command and as August Schilling in The Way of All Flesh.

During World War II, he starred in many Nazi propaganda movies. After the fall for the Third Reich, he was unemployed and retired.

[[Jorge Aguado]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2019 deaths, Argentine politicians, People from Buenos Aires

Jorge Rubén Aguado (6 November 1925 – 12 July 2019) was an Argentine politician. He was born in Buenos Aires. Aguado was the de facto Governor of Buenos Aires Province from 1982 through 1983 and Minister of Agriculture and Livestock in 1981.

Aguado died on 12 July 2019 in Buenos Aires at the age of 93.

[[Werner Müller (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, 2019 deaths, Cancer deaths in Germany, German businesspeople, German politicians, People from Essen

Wilhelm Werner Müller (1 June 1946 – 15 July 2019) was a German politician and businessman. He was Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy from 1998 to 2002. Müller was born in Essen, Germany.

Müller died on 15 July 2019 in Essen from cancer at the age of 73.

[[Flipbook]]

CATEGORIES: Paper, Books

A flipbook is a paper book with drawings that when flipped back quickly, look like they move. They are normally children drawings.

[[Rommel Roberts]]

CATEGORIES: South African people, Theologians, Human rights activists, 1949 births, Living people

Rommel Roberts was born on December 2, 1949, in Durban, South Africa. He is a theologian, human rights activist, Director of the Hilltop Empowerment Centre, consultant, lecturer and author.

[[Wikipedia Arbitration Committee]]

CATEGORIES: Wikimedia

The Wikipedia Arbitration Committee (ARBCOM) is the highest decision-making body on the English Wikipedia. It has the final say on all disagreements between editors of the encyclopedia. It settles important disputes between Wikipedia’s editors and administrators. It has 15 members who are elected and who come from different countries.

[[Temperance movement]]

CATEGORIES: History

The temperance movement is a social movement against the consumption of alcoholic beverages. During the 19th and early 20th centuries, the temperance movement became very big in many countries. It led to Prohibition in the United States, which lasted from 1920 to 1933.

[[Woman's Christian Temperance Union]]

CATEGORIES: Organizations

The Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) is an active international temperance organization. It was one of the first organizations of women who wanted social reform. They did this with a program that "linked the religious and the secular through concerted and far-reaching reform strategies based on applied Christianity."  It was influential in the temperance movement, and supported the 18th Amendment. It was also influential in social reform issues that became big in the progressive era. 

The WCTU started on December 23, 1873, in Hillsboro, Ohio. It officially had a national convention in Cleveland, Ohio, in 1874.

[[Hot Springs County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 establishments in Wyoming, Wyoming counties

Hot Springs County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 United States Census, 4,812 people lived there. Its county seat is Thermopolis. The county is named for the hot springs located in Hot Springs State Park. Hot Springs County was created on February 21, 1911.

[[Hempstead, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Hempstead is a city in Waller County, Texas, United States. The population was 5,770 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Waller County.

[[Independence, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Montgomery County, Kansas, County seats in Kansas, 1869 establishments in Kansas

Independence is a city in and the county seat of Montgomery County, Kansas, United States. In 2010, the 9,483 people lived there. It was named after the Declaration of Independence.

[[Ghiyas ud din Balban]]

CATEGORIES: 13th century births, Delhi Sultanate, History of India, History of Pakistan, Indian monarchs, Year of birth unknown, Year of death unknown

Ghiyash ud din Balban was a famous and one of the most powerful sultan of the "Mamluk" dynasty. The real name of Ghiyash ud din Balban was Ulug Khan. Title - Nabab E Khudayi ( acolyte of god), Jhil E Ellahi (shadow of god). Ghiyash ud din was the 2nd Illbari turkey sultan. He rules the delhi from 1266AD to 1286AD. He appointed a spying agency called "Barid". Amir khusrau (poet) came in India at the time of Ghiyash ud din Balban. Later Amir Khusrau become a famous court poet of Ala ud din Khilji.Some Treatises of Amir Khusrau are Kiran ush Sadin, Tughlak Nama etc. Amir khusrau also known as Parrot of India. Ghiyash ud din Balban enforce some laws like "Sizada" (penalize), "Paibas" (kissing the throne). Sultan Ghiyash ud din Balban created the first military department of Sultanat dynasty was called "Deowan-E-Arz".

After death of Sultan Illtutmish, Rukn ud din Feroz had been the ruler of the Delhi sultanat after that in the year 1236AD Sultana Razia had become the Sultan of Delhi sultanat and they are killed by Ghiyash ud din Balban.

[[Dilton Doiley]]

Dilton Doiley is a fictional character appearing in Archie Comics.  Dilton is short and wears glasses.  Dilton is also a genius and loves science.  Dilton creates a lot of scientific experiments that tend to go wrong.  Dilton is also good at finding out how to solve the problems that they create.  A character ressembling Dilton appeared unnamed in an issue of Archie Comics in 1942.  There have been throughout the 1940's characters that look like Dilton.  His current image was established since an appearance in an Archie Comics newspaper comic strip.  He was named Dilton since 1950 and since then his name has been given as Dilton Doiley.  He is the smartest student at Riverdale High School and is a good friend of Moose Mason.

[[Augusta, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Butler County, Kansas

Augusta is a city in Butler County, Kansas, United States. In 2010, 9,274 people lived there.

[[Chanute, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kansas

Chanute (ʃ) is a city in Neosho County, Kansas, United States. It was created on January 1, 1873. It was named after railroad engineer and aviation pioneer Octave Chanute.  In 2010, 9,119 people lived there. The Neosho County Community College is in Chanute.

[[Wellington, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Sumner County, Kansas, County seats in Kansas

Wellington is a city in Sumner County, Kansas, United States. It is also the county seat. In 2010, 8,172 people lived there.

[[Craig Fallon]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2019 deaths, British sportspeople, Judoka, People from Wolverhampton

Craig Andrew Fallon (18 December 1982 – 15 July 2019) was a British judoka. He was born in Wolverhampton, West Midlands. In September 2005, Fallon won the -60 kg weight class at the World Judo Championships in Cairo. He became only the third British male to win a world title. 

Fallon died on 15 July 2019 at the age of 36.

[[Park City, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kansas

Park City is a city in Sedgwick County, Kansas, United States. It is a suburb of Wichita. In 2010, 7,297 people lived there.

[[Jem and the Holograms]]

Jem and the Holograms is a 2015 American musical fantasy film produced and directed by Jon M. Chu, written by Ryan Landels, and starring Aubrey Peeples (as the title character), Stefanie Scott, Hayley Kiyoko, Aurora Perrineau, Ryan Guzman, Molly Ringwald, and Juliette Lewis. Borrowing elements from the 1980s animated television series Jem by Christy Marx, the film was produced by Hasbro Studios and Blumhouse Productions. Chu's interest in developing a film adaptation of Jem is based on having grown up watching the original animated series with his sisters.  He had attempted to make the film 11 years earlier, but was rejected by Universal due to the cost.

[[A Ghost Story]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 drama movies, American independent movies, American drama movies

A Ghost Story is a 2017 American supernatural drama movie written and directed by David Lowery. It stars Casey Affleck, Rooney Mara, Will Oldham, Sonia Acevedo, Rob Zabrecky, and Liz Franke. Affleck plays a man who becomes a ghost and remains in the house he shares with his wife (Mara).

[[Jane the Virgin]]

CATEGORIES: Telenovelas, 2014 television series debuts

Jane the Virgin is an American romantic dramedy and satirical telenovela developed by Jennie Snyder Urman. The series premiered on October 13, 2014 on The CW. It is a loose adaptation of the Venezuelan telenovela Juana la Virgen created by Perla Farías. The series stars Gina Rodriguez as Jane Villanueva, a devout 23-year-old Latina virgin, who becomes pregnant after an accidental artificial insemination by her gynecologist. The program parodies commonly used tropes and devices in Latin telenovelas.

At the 72nd Golden Globe Awards, Jane the Virgin was nominated for the award for Best Television Series – Musical or Comedy, received the Peabody Award, and Gina Rodriguez won the award for Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy. It was also selected as one of the top 10 Television Programs of 2014 by the American Film Institute.

Beginning with the fourth episode of season three, the series's on-screen title card was modified, with "The Virgin" crossed out in favor of a substitution corresponding to each episode. This mirrored the storyline, in which Jane is no longer a virgin.

On April 2, 2018, The CW renewed the series for a fifth and final season, which premiered on March 27, 2019.

[[Molly of Denali]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s television series, 2019 television series debuts, American animated movies, American television series, Animated television series, Canadian animated television series, Canadian television series, PBS Kids shows, Television series about families, Television series about friendship

Molly of Denali is an American-Canadian animated television show.

Molly of Denali premiered on July 15, 2019 by Atomic Cartoons and WGBH Kids for PBS Kids and CBC Television.

[[Death Eater]]

CATEGORIES: Harry Potter characters

Death Eaters are fictional characters in the Harry Potter series of books by J.K. Rowling.  They are characterized as evil wizards and witches who have allied themselves with Lord Voldemort in his efforts to take over the world, kill all witches and wizards born to non-magical parents for being "mudbloods" and enslave all non-magical beings as well as seeking to opress non-human magical creatures such as goblins and elves.  They believe that people of pure magical ancestry known as Pure-Bloods are superior to those of only partial magical ancestry, whom they call Half-Bloods.  Nonetheless not all Death Eaters are Pure-Blood.  Their leader Lord Voldemort originally known as Tom Riddle is Half-Blood because his father was not a wizard.  The Death Eater spy turned double agent Severus Snape is Half-Blood because even though his mother was a witch his father was not a wizard. Fenrir Greyback is allowed to be a Death Eater even though he is a werewolf.  Hermione Granger observes that a lot of Death Eaters must be Half-Blood because there are too many for them all to be Pure-Blood.

[[Declension]]

CATEGORIES: Linguistics, Grammar, Language

In linguistics, declension is the changing of the form of a word. This  shows its function in the sentence, by way of some inflection. The inflectional change of verbs is called conjugation.

Declensions may apply to nouns, pronouns, adjectives, adverbs, and articles to indicate number (e.g. singular, dual, plural), case (e.g. nominative case, accusative case, genitive case, dative case), gender (e.g. masculine, neuter, feminine), and a number of other grammatical categories.

For example, in English, if there is more than one boy, the word must become boys. For example, "My family has two girls and one boy, but my wife's family has two girls and three boys". The form boy is singular, meaning there is only one of the noun, and the form boys is plural, meaning there is more than one of the noun. You must know the noun's singular form if you want to find it in an English dictionary.

Also in English, a noun can change if it owns something. For example, if a toy belongs to one boy, the toy is the boy's toy, but if it belongs to two or more boys, it becomes the boys' toy. Both numbers of the noun have this word case, which is called the genitive case. Word case is when a word form changes depending on what part of the sentence it is.

[[Grammatical gender]]

CATEGORIES: Gender, Grammar

Grammatical gender is a way of organizing words in a language. It is a way of deciding the inflection, or change in form, that a word has. Some languages have grammatical gender, like Spanish and Arabic, but others do not, like Chinese, Japanese, and Estonian.

[[Edith Irby Jones]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2019 deaths, American physicians, American educators, Scientists from Arkansas

Edith Irby Jones (December 23, 1927 – July 15, 2019) was an American physician. She was born in Conway, Arkansas. Jones was the first African American to be accepted as a non-segregated student at the University of Arkansas Medical School. She was also the first black student to attend racially mixed classes in the American South. 

Jones was the first woman president of the National Medical Association. She was added into the Arkansas Women's Hall of Fame.

Jones died at age 91 on July 15, 2019, in Houston, Texas.

[[Raja Dhale]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2019 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls, Indian writers, Political activists, Indian politicians, Ambedkarites

Raja Dhale (30 September 1940 – 16 July 2019) was an Indian writer, poet, Ambedkarite thinker, social activist, and political activist. He was one of the founding members of the Dalit Panther. He was a member of the Republican Party of India and led the Raja Dhale faction, after it split.

Dhale was a candidate in the 1999 parliament election for the Mumbai North Central constituency and 2004 parliament elections from Mumbai North East constituency, again on Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangha ticket.

Dhale was born in Maharashtra. He died at a Mumbai hospital after falling at his home on 16 July 2019 at the age of 78.

[[Andrea Camilleri]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Italian writers, Novelists, Television writers

Andrea Calogero Camilleri (anˈdrɛːa kamilˈlɛːri; 6 September 1925 – 17 July 2019) was an Italian novelist and television writer. He was born in Porto Empedocle, Italy. He was known for writing the Inspector Montalbano crime novel series. He also wrote the television series Le inchieste del commissario Maigret.

Camilleri suffered a heart attack in June 2019 and was placed under critical condition. He died a month later on 17 July 2019 at a Rome hospital, aged 93.

[[Centreboard]]

CATEGORIES: Sailing, Ship building

A centreboard or centerboard (US) is a keel on a boat which can be put up and down in the water. It is used in dinghies and by other sailing boats in shallow water but in deep water it gives the boat stability.

[[Obituary]]

CATEGORIES: Death customs

An Obituary is a notice of a death. An Obituary is published by the family of the person who died to let more distant family members and friends know about the death. Funeral homes commonly publish obituaries. A description of the person who died is usually included in the obituary.  Funeral arrangements are usually part of an obituary. An  obituary is distributed via a publication in a newspaper, or via manual handing out or posting of pamphlets.

Some newpapers offer a service of writing a biography for the person who died. 

Old obituaries are a source of information for people writing biographies.

[[Cadillac Records]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s biographical movies, 2008 drama movies, 2000s musical movies, American biographical movies, American drama movies, American musical movies, English-language movies, Movies based on real life events, Movies set in Chicago, Illinois, Movies set in Mississippi, Movies set in the 1950s

Cadillac Records is a 2008 American biographical drama movie. It was written and directed by Darnell Martin. It explores the musical era from the early 1940s to the late 1960s. It is about the influential Chicago-based record-company executive Leonard Chess, and a few of the musicians who recorded for Chess Records.

The movie stars Adrien Brody as Leonard Chess, Cedric the Entertainer as Willie Dixon, Mos Def as Chuck Berry, Columbus Short as Little Walter, Jeffrey Wright as Muddy Waters, Eamonn Walker as Howlin' Wolf, and Beyoncé as Etta James.

[[Hustlers (movie)]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 comedy-drama movies, American comedy-drama movies

Hustlers is a 2019 American comedy-drama movie written and directed by Lorene Scafaria, based on the New York magazine article "The Hustlers at Scores" by Jessica Pressler. The movie stars Constance Wu, Jennifer Lopez, Cardi B, Keke Palmer, Julia Stiles, Lili Reinhart, and Lizzo.

[[Being Mary Jane]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American television series, 2013 television series debuts, English-language television programs

Being Mary Jane  was an American drama television series created by Mara Brock Akil and starring Gabrielle Union, that debuted January 7, 2014 on BET. The 90-minute-pilot for the series aired on July 2, 2013. The series follows professional and personal life of successful TV news anchor Mary Jane Paul, who lives in Atlanta, Georgia. The series ended on April 23, 2019.

[[Yas Island]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the United Arab Emirates, Islands of Asia

Yas Island (جزيرة ياس) is an island in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Development started in 2006, to transform it into a tourist attraction, mainly focussed on motorsport.

The Yas Marina Circuit is a large part of Yas Island, which has hosted the Formula One Etihad Airways Abu Dhabi Grand Prix since 2009, as the last race in the calendar. In 2010 Ferrari World was opened next to the circuit, which contains Formula Rossa, the worlds fastest roller coaster which has a top speed of 240kph (149mph).

Other popular attractions on the island are Yas Waterworld, Warner Bros. World Abu Dhabi, and SeaWorld Abu Dhabi.

[[John Graves Simcoe]]

CATEGORIES: British politicians, British generals

John Graves  Simcoe was a British General and politician.

[[Robert L. Johnson]]

CATEGORIES: Company founders, Living people, 1946 births, Businesspeople from Mississippi

Robert Louis Johnson  (born April 8, 1946 is American entrepreneur, media magnate, executive, philanthropist, and investor.He is the co-founder of BET, which was acquired by Viacom in 2001 . He is also the founder of RLJ Companies which is a holding company that invests in various business sectors .Johnson is the former majority owner of the Charlotte Bobcats.His company is listed d among the most prominent African-American businesses in the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries

[[Stewart Butterfield]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, 1973 births, Canadian businesspeople

Daniel Stewart Butterfield (born Dharma Jeremy Butterfield) is a Canadian entrepreneur. He helped create Flickr, which allows you to share photos online. He also helped create Slack, which is a messaging app with more advanced features.

[[William Allen White]]

CATEGORIES: 1868 births, 1944 deaths, Kansas Republicans

William Allen White (February 10, 1868 – January 29, 1944) was an American newspaper editor, politician, author, and leader of the Progressive movement. Between 1896 and his death, White became a spokesman for middle America.

[[Bonner Springs, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Johnson County, Kansas, Cities in Leavenworth County, Kansas

Bonner Springs is a city in Wyandotte, Leavenworth, and Johnson counties, Kansas, United States. It is part of the Kansas City Metropolitan Area. In 2010, 7,314 people lived there. In 2016, the estimated amount of people was 7,665. Bonner Springs became a city on November 10, 1898.321

[[Valley Center, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Sedgwick County, Kansas

Valley Center is a city in Sedgwick County, Kansas, United States. It is a suburb of Wichita. In 2010, 6,822 people lived there.

[[Pratt, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Pratt County, Kansas, County seats in Kansas

Pratt is a city in Pratt County, Kansas, United States. It is the county seat of Pratt County. In 2010, 6,835 people lived there. Pratt has the Pratt Community College.

[[Bel Aire, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Sedgwick County, Kansas

Bel Aire is a city in Sedgwick County, Kansas, United States. It is a suburb of Wichita. In 2010, 6,769 people lived there.

[[Roeland Park, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Johnson County, Kansas

Roeland Park is a city in Johnson County, Kansas, United States. It is part of the Kansas City metropolitan area. In 2010, 6,731 people lived there.

[[Yana Rhinoceros Horn Site]]

CATEGORIES: Siberia

The Yana Rhinoceros Horn Site is an excavation in Siberia.  It has ancient human remains and artifacts.  These remains are 31,000 years old.  Human teeth from the site have been used to analyze DNA. The results show that the people were Homo sapiens .  These people were different from already known people.  The archaeologists have named them Ancient North Siberians.  They are more like modern Europeans than like modern Asians.  

Siberia was very cold when these people lived.  They hunted large animals like woolly mammoths, woolly rhinoceroses, and bison. 

[[Laramie County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s establishments in Wyoming Territory, 1867 establishments in the United States, Wyoming counties

Laramie County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 United States Census,  91,738 people lived there. The county seat is Cheyenne, the state capital. The county lies west of the Nebraska state line and north of the Colorado state line.

The city of Laramie, Wyoming, is in neighboring Albany County.

[[Lincoln County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Wyoming counties, Lincoln County, Wyoming, 1911 establishments in Wyoming

Lincoln County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 census, 18,106 people lived there. Its county seat is Kemmerer.

Its western border abuts the east border of the state of Utah.

[[Kemmerer, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wyoming, County seats in Wyoming, Lincoln County, Wyoming

Kemmerer is a city in the U.S. state of Wyoming. It is the county seat of Lincoln County. The population was 2,656 at the 2010 census.

[[Alpine, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Wyoming, Lincoln County, Wyoming

Alpine is a town in Lincoln County, Wyoming, United States. The population was 828 at the 2010 census.

[[Karnes City, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Karnes City is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Karnes County.

[[Kaufman, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Kaufman is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Kaufman County.

[[Franklin, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Franklin is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Robertson County.

[[Bremond, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Bremond is a city in the U.S. state of Texas.

[[Battle of Aqaba]]

CATEGORIES: World War I

The Battle of Aqaba was a major battle during World War I. It was fought on July 6, 1917 between the Ottoman Empire and Arab Revolt, who part of the Central Powers and Allied Powers in the same order. The city of Aqaba, Jordan was an important coastal city and port controlled by the Ottomans. Even though the city was heavily defended on the coast, there was little defense inland. This was because the Ottomans thought the Arabian Desert outside the city was impossible to cross. Led by Arab chief Auda Abu Tayi and British officer T. E. Laurence, the Arab Revolt marched across the Arabian Desert to Aqaba. This surprised the Ottomans and the Arab Revolt captured the city.

[[Arab Revolt]]

CATEGORIES: Ottoman Empire, World War I

The Arab Revolt were Arab tribes who fought against the Ottoman Empire during World War I. Since the British Empire was also fighting against the Ottomans, they gave the Arabs military support. Many of the Arab Revolt wanted to create a unified country for Arabs. However, this did not come true and the Arab world would be instead be made into many different countries.

[[Pahumara]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Assam

The Pahumara River is a river in the Barpeta district of Assam in India. It is located at latitude 26° 17'0" and longitude 26°17'0". It is a tributary of the Brahmaputra River.

It flows through the areas of Puthimari, Medhikuchi, Pathsala, Dhumarkur, Bhawanipur, Kayakuchi and the Barpeta district. 

Frequent rains in monsoon season often make the Pahumara river flood in many places, such as paddy fields (underwater fields for growing rice) and roads in the Bahari sub-divison of the Barpeta district. During this time the river is quite dangerous. Sometimes the river floods when the Kurichhu hydroelectric plant in Bhutan opens its dam. 

According to local people, a type of boat race on the Pahumara river has been a tradition of the area for more than 100 years.

[[Allied Powers of World War I]]

CATEGORIES: World War I

The Allied Powers of World War I were the countries who fought against the Central Powers in World War I. Major countries included the British Empire, France, the Russian Empire, the United States, Italy, and Japan. Most of these countries would fight alongside each other again in World War II, except that Italy and Japan would fight alongside Germany instead.

The Allied Powers in Europe were already allies before the war began. Serbia was an ally of Russia, and Russia was an ally of Britain and France. The war started because the Austro-Hungarian Empire declared war on Serbia in 1914, which led to a chain reaction of countries declaring war on each other.

At first, the United States was neutral, it was not part of either side. However, after several acts made by Germany against the US, the US declared war on Germany in 1917 and would fight for the Allied Powers.

Russia's campaign against the Central Powers went very poorly. Many Russian soldiers were poorly equipped and trained, many Russians were killed, and poverty and starvation became worse problems than before. Many Russians blamed Czar Nicholas II's poor leadership for Russia's problems, so he was overthrown and sent to exile. The Russian Provisional Government who replaced him also made many Russians upset because they promised that Russia would continue fighting the war. After the March Revolution that overthrew the Czar, communist revolutionary Vladimir Lenin made a deal with Germany. The deal was that he would stop the fighting between Russia and Germany if they sent him to Russia to overthrow the government. Lenin's slogan for his communist government was "peace, land, and bread". This meant that the communist government promised no more fighting in the war, land redistribution so that everyone in Russia could have an equal amount of property, and that food would be plentiful. After the Communist Party took over Russia in the October Revolution, they fulfilled their promise to Germany and ended Russia's fighting in the war.

In World War II, Italy would join Germany in the Axis Powers because its leader, Benito Mussolini, had a similar ideology to Nazism. Japan was disappointed with the end of World War I because it did not gain as much as it wanted. Japan would also join the Axis Powers because it thought it would help the Japanese Empire grow faster than if it did with the Allies.

[[Calvert, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Calvert is a city in Texas.

[[Hearne, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas

Hearne is a city of Robertson County in the state of Texas in the United States.

[[Hondo, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Hondo is a city in and the county seat of Medina County, Texas, United States. As of the 2010 census, the population was 8,803.

[[Floydada, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Floydada is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Floyd County.

[[Dodd City, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Texas

Dodd City is a town in the U.S. state of Texas.

[[Ottawa Dragon Boat festival]]

CATEGORIES: Ottawa, Festivals in Canada, China, 1993 establishments in Canada

The Ottawa Dragon Boat festival is held every year in Ottawa,  the National capital of Canada. The festival was founded in 1993. In 2019 the festival had 200 teams competing. The  festival lasts for four days and offers  free admission to concerts, amusement attractions, sports demonstrations,  artisans, exhibitors,  culinary treats, children’s area and non-stop dragon  boat racing.

The Festival is made possible through Celebrate Ontario and the City of Ottawa Partnership Program.

[[Tower of Babel]]

CATEGORIES: Old Testament

The Tower of Babel (מִגְדַּל בָּבֶל, Migdal Bavel) story in Genesis 11:1–9 is an origin myth meant to explain why the world's peoples speak different languages.

According to the story, a united humanity in the generations following the Great Flood, speaking a single language and migrating westward, comes to the land of Shinar (שִׁנְעָר). There they agree to build a city and a tower tall enough to reach heaven. God, observing their city and tower, felt and insulted and confused the humans so that they can no longer understand each other. He then scatters them around the world.

Some modern scholars have associated the Tower of Babel with known structures, notably the Etemenanki, a ziggurat dedicated to the Mesopotamian god Marduk in Babylon. A Sumerian story with some similar elements is told in Enmerkar and the Lord of Aratta.

[[Standard German]]

CATEGORIES: German language

Standard German, High German, or Standard High German, (Standarddeutsch, Hochdeutsch, or in Swiss Standard German Schriftdeutsch), is the standardized variety of the German language used in formal occasions, and for communication between different dialect areas. It has three specific regional variants: German Standard German, Austrian Standard German, and Swiss Standard German.

[[Standard German phonology]]

CATEGORIES: German language

The phonology of Standard German is the standard pronunciation or accent of the German language. It deals with current phonology and phonetics as well as with historical developments thereof as well as the geographical variants and the influence of German dialects.

[[Abyssinia Crisis]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Italy, History of Italy, History of the United Kingdom, World War II

The Abyssinia Crisis happened in 1935. It started with the Walwal incident, a conflict between the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Ethiopia (then commonly known as "Abyssinia"). The League of Nations said Italy could not intervene and voted to punish Italy's economy. But the League did not follow through, and Italy quit the League, made special deals with Britain and France and invaded Abyssinia. The crisis made the League look bad, and made Fascist Italy closer friends with Nazi Germany.

Both Italy and Ethiopia did not like each other. The League of Nations said:At places where there is not a single Italian national, a consul establishes himself in an area known as consular territory with a guard of about ninety men, for whom he claims jurisdictional immunity. This is an obvious abuse of consular privileges. The abuse is all the greater that the consul's duties, apart from the supplying of information of a military character, take the form of assembling stocks of arms, which constitute a threat to the peace of the country, whether from the internal or the international point of view.

[[Yehud Medinata]]

CATEGORIES: Ancient Israel and Judah, Autonomous areas, Coordinates on Wikidata

Yehud Medinata (Aramaic for the State of Judah), or simply Yehud, was part of the Persian Achaemenid Empire. It was within the satrapy of Eber-Nari.

It was roughly like the older kingdom of Judah but had less land. The area of Yehud Medinata is roughly the same as the previous Babylonian province of Yehud, which was created after the kingdom of Judah was invaded by the Neo-Babylonian Empire (c. 597).

Yehud Medinata continued to exist for two centuries, until Alexander the Great conquered it and made it part of his empire.

[[Culper spy ring]]

CATEGORIES: American Revolutionary War, Espionage, George Washington, History of New York City, Secret societies, United States intelligence agencies

During the American Revolution, a man by the name of Abraham Woodhull ran a ring of civilian spies on behalf of General George Washington against the British using the pseudonym Samuel Culper. It was known as the Culper spy ring.

[[Upper Canada]]

CATEGORIES: 1790s in North America, 1791 establishments, 1841 disestablishments, 19th century in North America, British Empire, Colonialism, Former British colonies, Former countries in North America, History of Canada, Ontario, Provinces and territories of Canada, Regions of Canada

Upper Canada is an old British name for the Canadian province of Ontario.

[[Constitutional Act of 1791]]

CATEGORIES: British Empire, History of Canada

The Contitution Act of 1791 is a law issued by the British Parliament under King George III in response to the demands of the United Empire Loyalists asking for elected representation.  It split a British colony called the Province of Quebec into two separate provinces.  The province of Upper Canada since renamed Ontario and the province of Lower Canada since renamed Quebec.  Each was given elected representatives to let the government know what they wanted but who didn't have any actual power.

[[Lower Canada]]

CATEGORIES: Historical territories of Canada, British Empire, 1790s establishments in North America, 1791 establishments, 19th century disestablishments in North America, 1841 disestablishments

The Province of Lower Canada was a British colony in Canada. It included Labrador and the southern part of Quebec. It was created in 1791 when Britain split Quebec into two provinces. It was merged in 1841 with the rest of Quebec to form the Province of Canada.

[[Evergy]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in Kansas, 1909 establishments in the United States, Companies of the United States, Electric power companies, Kansas City, Missouri

Evergy is an electric utility in Kansas City, Missouri, United States. The company was created from a merger of Westar Energy of Topeka and Great Plains Energy of Kansas City, Missouri. Evergy is the largest electric company in Kansas. They serve 690,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers in the eastern third of Kansas.

[[David Peck]]

CATEGORIES: Pages created with the Article Wizard from 2019

David Peck is an American business executive, consultant, writer and public speaker, who is active at the intersection of cannabis and E-commerce sectors.

He attained a Bachelor's Degree in Psychology from Brown University, Rhode Island in 2003. He is the co-founder of Ivy Film Festival, hosted annually on the campus of Brown University.

He went on to help start the Ask a Ninja YouTube show.

In 2013, he founded Sock Panda, a company which donates socks to those in need with every purchase. As of December 2017 the company has donated nearly 100,000 socks to homeless shelters, low income senior centers, hospitals, and under-privileged classrooms throughout the United States.

He attained the Master of Business Administration from USC Marshall School of Business, California in 2014.

On April 2017, he joined High Times to serve as Vice President of Business Development

[[Jimi system]]

CATEGORIES: History of China

The Jimi system (t=羈縻制) is a way to organize the government to rule over far-away foreign lands. It uses barbarians to rule over barbarians or the people you conquered to rule over the people you conquered. 

It was used in China between the 7th century and 10th century. It was used during the Tang Dynasty from 650s-740s. It was also used in the Song, Mongol Yuan, Ming dynasties. But then it was also called the Tusi system (s=). It ended around 1726. Then the Qing dynasty created a new system.

[[Arab Winter]]

CATEGORIES: History of the Middle East, 2010s in Asia, 2010s in Africa, Pages using deprecated image syntax

During the Arab Winter there was a resurgence of authoritarianism, absolute monarchies and Islamic extremism. 

The Arab Winter started in 2014 and happened four years after after the Arab Spring. It includes civil wars, mounting regional instability, economic and demographic decline of Arab countries, and ethno-religious wars. 

By the summer of 2014, the Arab Winter had resulted in nearly a quarter of a million deaths and millions of refugees. Perhaps the most significant event was the rise of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant from 2014 to the present.

[[Julian year]]

CATEGORIES: Units of time

In astronomy, a Julian year (symbol: a) is a unit to measure time. It has exactly 3654 days of 86,400 seconds each. That is the average length of the year in the Julian calendar used in Western societies in previous centuries, and for which the unit is named. Nevertheless, because a Julian year measures duration rather than designates date, the Julian year does not correspond to years in the Julian calendar or any other calendar. Nor does it correspond to the many other ways of defining a year (for which, see Year).

[[Isekai]]

CATEGORIES: Anime, Anime and manga terms, Fantasy, Fiction genres, Manga, Movie genres, Television genres

Isekai is a genre of Japanese manga, anime, light novel, video game, etc. It has character(s) who go into a different world.  

[[Greek government-debt crisis]]

CATEGORIES: Financial crises, Pages using deprecated image syntax, European Union, Politics of Greece

The Greek government-debt crisis happened after the financial crisis of 2007–08. In Greece it is known as The Crisis (Greek: Η Κρίση). It started with sudden  reforms and austerity measures. But this made people poor and lose money and land. 

The Greek economy is in the longest recession of any advanced capitalist economy to date. It is even longer than the US Great Depression. Many well-educated Greeks left the country.

A trade deficit means that a country is buying more than it produces, so it has to borrow from others. Both the Greek trade deficit and budget deficit rose from below 5% of GDP in 1999 to peak around 15% of GDP in the 2008–2009 periods. Greece was perceived as a higher credit risk alone than it was as a member of the Eurozone. Thus investors felt the EU would help out Greece.

Reports in 2009 of Greek government disorganization increased borrowing costs. Greece could no longer borrow to finance its trade and budget deficits at an affordable cost.

[[Austerity]]

CATEGORIES: Macroeconomics

Austerity measures (political-economics) are government actions that try to reduce government budget deficits. They do this by spending less, increasing tax, both, or some other clever ways.

Austerity measures are used by governments that find it difficult to pay their debts. The measures are meant to reduce the budget deficit by bringing government revenue closer to spending.

In most macroeconomic models, austerity policies generally increase unemployment as government spending falls. Decreased government spending reduces public and maybe private employment. Also, tax increases can reduce consumption by cutting household disposable income. Some say that reducing spending may result in a higher debt-to-GDP ratio because government expenditure itself is a part of GDP.

For example, after the Great Recession, austerity measures in many European countries were followed by increasing unemployment and debt-to-GDP ratios despite smaller budget deficits. When an economy is operating at or near capacity, higher short-term deficit spending (stimulus) can cause interest rates to rise. This results in a reduction in private investment. This then reduces economic growth. Where there is excess capacity, the stimulus can result in an increase in employment and output.

[[Swadeshi movement]]

CATEGORIES: Indian independence movement

The Swadeshi movement was part of the Indian independence movement. It aimed at removing the British Empire from power and improving economic conditions in India. It was begun on 7 August 1905 in Calcutta.

[[Lawrence University]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in Wisconsin Territory, 1847 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Wisconsin

Lawrence University is a four-year college in Appleton, Wisconsin, United States. It was founded in 1847.  It is a private school not affiliated with any church. In addition to the men's and women's liberal arts colleges, Lawrence has a Conservatory of Music.  In 2018 there were 1,472 students in the university. Of these, 13% were foreign students from  over 45 countries.  There were 405 faculty members (76% were full time).  

[[Gadfly]]

CATEGORIES: Parasites, Flies

Gadfly is used for term for horse-fly or botfly. They are ectoparasites of mammals which drive the animals almost crazy with irritation.

[[Botfly]]

CATEGORIES: Flies

Botflies, also known as warble flies or  gadflies, are a family of flies: the Oestridae. Their larvae are internal parasites of mammals, some species growing in the host's flesh and others within the gut.

[[Extraterrestrial sky]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy

In astronomy, an extraterrestrial sky is a view of outer space from the surface of a planet (or related body in space) other than Earth.

The only extraterrestrial sky that has been directly observed and photographed by astronauts is that of the Moon. The skies of Venus, Mars and Titan have been observed by space probes designed to land on the surface and send images back to Earth.

Extraterrestrial skies seem to vary because of a number of reasons. An extraterrestrial atmosphere, if present, has a large bearing on visible characteristics. The atmosphere's density and chemical composition can contribute to differences in color, opacity (including haze) and the presence of clouds. Astronomical objects may also be visible and can include natural satellites, rings, star systems and nebulas and other planetary system bodies.

For skies that have not been directly or indirectly observed, their appearance can be simulated based on known factors, such as the position of astronomical objects relative to the surface and atmospheric composition.

[[Warble fly]]

CATEGORIES: Flies, Parasites

A warble fly is a large fly of the genus Hypoderma. It is an ectoparasite on horses, sheep, goats and humans. They lay their eggs on the front legs of large animals. They bore their way in, causing damage and distress. They have been eliminated from European countries, but reinfestations occur regularly.

[[Ford County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Ford County (county code FO) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 33,848 people lived there. Its county seat is Dodge City. Dodge City is also the biggest city in Ford County. The county is named after Colonel James Hobart Ford.

[[Riley County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Riley County (standard abbreviation: RL) is a county located in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 71,115 people lived there. The biggest city is Manhattan. Manhattan is also the county seat.

Two of Kansas' biggest employers are in Riley County: Fort Riley and Kansas State University.

[[Indian presidential election, 1957]]

The Election Commission of India held indirect 2nd presidential elections of India on May 6, 1957. Dr. Rajendra Prasad won his re-election with 459,698 votes over his rivals Chowdhry Hari Ramwho got 2,672 votes and Nagendra Narayan Das who got 2,000 votes. Rajendra Prasad, has been the only person, to have won and served two terms, as President of India.

[[Geary County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Geary County (county code GE) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 34,362 people lived there. Its county seat and most populous city is Junction City. The county is named after Governor John W. Geary.

[[Kara Swisher]]

CATEGORIES: American journalists

Kara Swisher is an Opinion writer at the NY Times.

[[Niobrara County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 establishments in Wyoming, Wyoming counties

Niobrara County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 United States Census, 2,484 people lived there. Its county seat is Lusk. Its eastern boundary abuts the west lines of the states of Nebraska and South Dakota.

[[Platte County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 establishments in Wyoming, Wyoming counties

Platte County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 census, 8,667 people lived there. Its county seat is Wheatland.

[[Sheridan County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 1880s establishments in Wyoming Territory, 1888 establishments in the United States, Wyoming counties

Sheridan County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 census, 29,116 people lived there. Its county seat is Sheridan.

[[Atchison County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory, Atchison County, Kansas

Atchison County (county code AT) is a county in northeastern Kansas, in the Central United States. In 2010, 16,924 people lived there. Its county seat is Atchison. Atchison is also the biggest city in the count.  The county is named after David Rice Atchison, a United States Senator from Missouri.

[[Sublette County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in Wyoming, 1923 establishments in the United States, Wyoming counties

Sublette County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 census, 10,247 people lived there. Its county seat is Pinedale. The county was created on February 15, 1921.

[[Sheridan, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Wyoming, County seats in Wyoming

Sheridan is a city in the U.S. state of Wyoming. It is the county seat of Sheridan County.

[[Sweetwater County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s establishments in Wyoming Territory, 1867 establishments in the United States, Wyoming counties

Sweetwater County is a county in southwestern Wyoming, United States. As of the 2010 census, 43,806 people lived there. Its county seat is Green River. Its southern boundary line abuts the north lines of the states of Colorado and Utah.

[[Uinta County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s establishments in Wyoming Territory, 1869 establishments in the United States, Wyoming counties

Uinta County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 census, 21,118 people lived there. Its county seat is Evanston.

[[Washakie County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 establishments in Wyoming, Wyoming counties

Washakie County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 census, 8,533 people lived there. Its county seat is Worland. The county was created on February 21, 1911.

[[Cherokee County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cherokee County, Kansas, 1860 establishments in Kansas Territory

Cherokee County (county code CK) is a U.S. county in Southeast Kansas. In 2010 census, 21,603 people lived there. Its county seat is Columbus. The biggest city in Cherokee County is Baxter Springs. Baxter Springs became the first "cow town" in Kansas during the 1870s and the period of cattle drives.

[[Weston County, Wyoming]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Wyoming, 1890 establishments in the United States, Wyoming counties

Weston County is a county in the U.S. state of Wyoming. As of the 2010 census, 7,208 people lived there. Its county seat is Newcastle. Its east boundary line abuts the west line of the state of South Dakota.

[[Henrietta, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Henrietta is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Clay County.

[[Pottawatomie County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 establishments in Kansas Territory, Pottawatomie County, Kansas

Pottawatomie County (standard abbreviation: PT) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 21,604 people lived there. The county seat is Westmoreland. The county is named after the Potawatomi group of Native Americans.

[[Edward Shotter]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2019 deaths, Educators, English writers

Edward Frank Shotter (29 June 1933 – 3 July 2019) was an Anglican priest and author. From 1966 to 1989 he was Director of Studies at the London Medical Group when he was appointed Dean of Rochester, a post he held until retirement in 2003.

Shotter died on 3 July 2019, four days after his 86th birthday.

[[Lisa Lu]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Chinese movie actors, Chinese television actors, Chinese stage actors, Chinese voice actors, Chinese singers, American movie actors, American television actors, American stage actors, American voice actors, Actors from California, Singers from California

Lisa Lu Yan (盧燕; born July 8, 1927) is a Chinese-born American actress and singer. She won the Golden Horse Awards three times in the 1970s. She was born in Beijing and raised in California. Lu is known for her roles in The Mountain Road, Demon Seed, Peter Bogdanovich's Saint Jack, The Last Emperor, The Joy Luck Club and Crazy Rich Asians.

[[Bruce Laingen]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Maryland, American military personnel of World War II, Ambassadors of the United States, American crime victims, Politicians from Minnesota

Lowell Bruce Laingen (August 6, 1922 – July 15, 2019) was an American diplomat. He was the U.S. Ambassador to Malta from 1977 to 1979. He worked under the Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter presidencies. He was a World War II veteran. Laingen was best known for having been the most senior American official held hostage during the Iran hostage crisis. 

He was the chargé d'affaires (head of diplomatic mission) at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran at the time of the crisis. He was born in Butterfield, Minnesota.

Laingen died on July 15, 2019 at a hospital in Bethesda, Maryland of problems caused from Parkinson's disease, aged 96.

[[Butterfield, Minnesota]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Minnesota

Butterfield is a city in Watonwan County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 586 at the 2010 census.

[[John Tanton]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from Parkinson's disease, Disease-related deaths in Michigan, American political activists, American conservatives, American physicians, American political writers, Writers from Detroit, Michigan

John H. Tanton (February 23, 1934 – July 16, 2019) was an American ophthalmologist, white nationalist and anti-immigration activist. He was born in Detroit, Michigan. 

Tanton was the founder and first chairman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), an anti-immigration organization. He was the co-founder of the Center for Immigration Studies, an anti-immigration think tank; and NumbersUSA, an anti-immigration lobbying group. 

He was chairman of U.S. English and ProEnglish. He was the founder of The Social Contract Press. He founded the pro-eugenics organization Society for Genetic Education.

Tanton died in Petoskey, Michigan on July 16, 2019 from Parkinson's disease at the age of 85.

[[Petoskey, Michigan]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Michigan, County seats in Michigan

Petoskey is a city and coastal resort community in the U.S. state of Michigan.  The population was about 5,670 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Emmet County.

[[Ernie Broglio]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, Chicago Cubs players, St. Louis Cardinals players, Sportspeople from Berkeley, California

Ernest Gilbert Broglio (ˈ; August 27, 1935 – July 16, 2019) was an American professional baseball pitcher. He played for the St. Louis Cardinals and Chicago Cubs of Major League Baseball from 1959 to 1966. He was born in Berkeley, California. Broglio was best known as the "other player" in the controversial trade that sent future Baseball Hall of Fame outfielder Lou Brock from the Cubs to the Cardinals in June 1964.

Broglio died on July 16, 2019 from cancer in San Jose, California at the age of 83.

[[Howard Engel]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Television producers, Writers from Ontario

Howard Engel CM (April 2, 1931 – July 17, 2019) was a Canadian mystery writer and CBC producer. He was well known for his novel series of Benny Cooperman detective novels. Engel was a founder of Crime Writers of Canada. He was born in St. Catharines, Ontario.

Engel died of pneumonia on July 17, 2019 in Toronto at the age of 88.

[[Pumpsie Green]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2019 deaths, Boston Red Sox players, New York Mets players, Sportspeople from Oklahoma

Elijah Jerry "Pumpsie" Green (October 27, 1933 – July 17, 2019) was an American Major League Baseball (MLB) infielder. He played with the Boston Red Sox from 1959 to 1962) and for the New York Mets in 1963. He was a switch-hitter who threw right-handed. He was listed as 6 tall and 175. Green was born in Boley, Oklahoma.

Green died at a hospital in San Leandro, California on July 17, 2019 at the age of 85.

[[Boley, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma, 1903 establishments in the United States

Boley is a town in Okfuskee County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 1,184 at the 2010 census. Boley was made a town in 1903 as a Black pioneer town with a few Native Americans among its citizens.

[[Ian Chappell]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, Living people, People with cancer, Australian cricketers, Australian journalists, Australian sports commentators, Sportspeople from South Australia

Ian Michael Chappell (born 26 September 1943) is a retired Australian cricketer and commentator. He played for South Australia and Australia. He captained Australia between 1971 and 1975. He was born in Unley, South Australia.

Chappell was known as "Chappelli". He is thought to be one of the greatest captains of cricket. 

He retired in 1980. He became a cricket commentator, working for Channel Nine. Chappell was added into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 1986, the FICA Cricket Hall of Fame in 2000 and the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame in 2003. In July 2009, Chappell was added into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame.

In July 2019, Chappell announced that he had skin cancer.

[[Wesley Pruden]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, American journalists, Writers from Arkansas, Writers from Washington, D.C., People from Little Rock, Arkansas

James Wesley Pruden Jr., known as Wesley Pruden (December 18, 1935 – July 17, 2019) was an American journalist and author. He was the editor-in-chief of The Washington Times from 1992 until his retirement in 2008.

[[Husaini Abdullahi]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2019 deaths, Military people, Nigerian politicians

Vice-Admiral Husaini Abdullahi (3 March 1939 – 9 July 2019) was a Nigerian military admiral and politician. He was the military governor of Bendel State, Nigeria from March 1976 to July 1978 during the  military regime of General Olusegun Obasanjo.

Abdullahi died on 9 July 2019 at the age of 80.

[[Nikola Hajdin]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2019 deaths, Serbian people, Engineers, Educators

Nikola Hajdin (Serbian Cyrillic Никола Хајдин); 4 April 1923 – 17 July 2019) was a Serbian construction engineer and  professor. He was the president of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts from 2003 to 2015 as a member of the Department of Technical Sciences. He was born in Vrbovsko, Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes.

Hajdin died on 17 July 2019 in Belgrade at the age of 96.

[[Charles Ceccaldi-Raynaud]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2019 deaths, French lawyers, French mayors, French politicians, French writers

Charles Ceccaldi-Raynaud (25 June 1925 – 18 July 2019) was a French lawyer and politician. A member of The Republicans, he was a member of the National Assembly from 1993 to 1995, and the Senate from 1995 to 2004, representing Hauts-de-Seine. He was Mayor of Puteaux from 1969 to 2004.

He was the author of a book about the Algerian War. He was born in Bastia, France. Ceccaldi-Raynaud died on 18 July 2019 at the age of 94.

[[Algerian War]]

CATEGORIES: Wars involving France, 1950s in Europe, 1960s in Europe

The Algerian War, also known as the Algerian War of Independence or the Algerian Revolution (الثورة الجزائرية Al-thawra Al-Jazaa'iriyya; Tagrawla Tadzayrit; Guerre d'Algérie or Révolution algérienne) was fought between France and the Algerian National Liberation Front (Front de Libération Nationale. FLN) from 1954 to 1962.

This war led to Algeria gaining its independence from France.  The war was known for its use of guerrilla warfare and the use of torture on both sides. The war took place mainly on the territory of Algeria.

[[Luciano De Crescenzo]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters, Italian movie actors, People from Naples

Luciano De Crescenzo (luˈtʃaːno de kreʃˈʃɛntso; 20 August 1928 – 18 July 2019) was an Italian writer, actor, director and engineer. He was mainly known as an author and screenwriter. His best known screenplay was for the 1980 comedy Il pap'occhio.

[[Yao Lee]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, 2019 deaths, Chinese singers, People from Shanghai

Yao Lee (姚莉), also credited as Yao Li, Yiu Lei and Hue Lee (19 July 1922 – 19 July 2019) was a Chinese singer. She was born in Shanghai. Yao was active from the 1930s to the 1970s. She was the sister of Yao Min. She was thought to be one of the Seven great singing stars of Shanghai in the 1940s. Her best known song was "Rose, Rose, I Love You" (1940).

Yao died on 19 July 2019 in Hong Kong at the age of 96.

[[Bob Beckwith]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, People from New York City, 1933 births

Bob Beckwith (born September 21, 1933) is an American firefighter. He is a former member of the New York City Fire Department.

Beckwith became well known to the United States' after he stood next to President George W. Bush as the president gave a speech at the ruins of the World Trade Center after the attacks of September 11, 2001.

Photos of Beckwith and the president appeared on the front page of the New York Daily News and the cover of Time magazine.

Beckwith has met several times with President Bush since then, spoken many times in public, and acted as a fundraiser for charities.

[[Eduardo Cojuangco Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Deaths from heart failure, Deaths from pneumonia, Filipino politicians, Filipino businesspeople

Eduardo "Danding" Murphy Cojuangco Jr. (10 June 1935 – 16 June 2020) was a Filipino businessman and politician. He was the chairman of San Miguel Corporation. It is the largest food and beverage corporation in the Philippines and Southeast Asia. He was the Governor of Tarlac from 1967 to 1969 and member of the House of Representatives of the Philippines from 1969 to 1972.

In 2016, his personal wealth was around US$1.1 billion. He was born in Paniqui, Tarlac. He founded the Nationalist People's Coalition in 1992. He ran for President of the Philippines in 1992, but came in third place losing to Fidel V. Ramos.

Cojuangco Jr. died in Manila on 16 June 2020 from heart failure and pneumonia caused by cancer, aged 85.

[[Jose Cojuangco Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Filipino politicians

José Sumulong Cojuangco Jr. (born José Cojuangco y Sumulong on September 19, 1934), more popularly known as Peping Cojuangco, is a Filipino politician. He was a Philippine Congressman and the 9th president of the Philippine Olympic Committee from 2004 to 2018.

He is the younger brother Corazon Aquino and uncle of Benigno Aquino III, both were Philippine presidents.

[[Marly Sarney]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Brazilian people, South American philanthropists, Socialites

Marly de Pádua Macieira Sarney (born December 4, 1932) is a Brazilian socialite and philanthropist. She is the wife of the former President José Sarney. She was First Lady of Brazil during the presidency of her husband, between 1985 and 1990.

Sarney married José Sarney on July 12, 1952. She was born in São Luís, Brazil.

[[Anacrusis]]

CATEGORIES: Musical terminology

In music and poetry, an anacrusis (plural anacruses) is a very short introduction.  The word comes from the ἀνάκρουσις (anákrousis), which means literally, "pushing up". It is a set of notes or syllables, perhaps just a single one. It comes before the first beat of a musical phrase, or a  line of poetry. It is not part of any musical phrase, or line of poetry which might have come before it. The word is sometimes used in publishing. It is very short, and not the literary or musical introduction, foreword, or with a preface). In music it is often called a "pick up" note.

[[Steve Smith]]

Steve Smith may refer to:

[[Pramod Kharel]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, Living people

Pramod Kharel (प्रमोद खरेल; born 6 November 1979) is a Nepalese singer. He is also judge of The Voice Of Nepal.

[[Pontotoc County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Pontotoc County is a county in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 29,957 people lived there. Its county seat is Pontotoc.

[[Amite County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1800s establishments in Mississippi Territory, 1809 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Amite County is a county in the U.S. state of Mississippi on the southern border with Louisiana. As of the 2010 census, 13,131 people lived there. Its county seat is Liberty. The county is named after the Amite River which runs through the county. It was founded in 1809.

[[Fort Stockton, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Fort Stockton is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Pecos County.

[[Giddings, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Giddings is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Lee County.

[[Kerrville, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Kerrville is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Kerr County.

[[Adams County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1799 establishments in the United States, 18th-century establishments in Mississippi Territory, Mississippi counties

Adams County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 32,297 people lived there. The county seat is Natchez. The county was created on April 2, 1799. It is named for John Adams, the second President of the United States.

[[Alcorn County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Alcorn County is a county located in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 37,057 people lived there. Its county seat is Corinth. The county was founded in 1870. It is named in honor of Governor James L. Alcorn.

[[Springerville, Arizona]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Arizona

Springerville is a town of Apache County in the state of Arizona in the United States. As of the 2010 census, 1,961 people lived there.

[[Leavenworth County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory, Leavenworth County, Kansas

Leavenworth County (county code LV) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 76,227 people lived there. Its county seat is Leavenworth. Leavenworth is also the biggest city in Leavenworth County.

[[Crowding out (economics)]]

CATEGORIES: Economic policy, Economic theories, Macroeconomics

In economics, crowding out happens when the government starts buying or selling more stuff in the market. This affects other people and businesses--usually in a bad way.

For example, if the government buys more stuff, it may have to borrow more. By borrowing more there will be a higher interest rate (see supply and demand). This will make it harder for other companies and people to borrow. The government is said to "crowd out" the market.

[[Butler County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Butler County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Butler County (county code BU) is a county in the southern part of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 65,880 people lived there. Its county seat is El Dorado. El Dorado is also the biggest city in Butler County.

[[Jefferson County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Jefferson County (county code JF) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 19,126 people lived there. Its county seat is Oskaloosa. Its biggest city is Valley Falls.

[[Slack (software)]]

CATEGORIES: Microsoft Windows software, Linux software

Slack is an online messaging app with fancier features. Stewart Butterfield helped create it. It was originally for a video game. But then they just made it a simple messaging app and dropped the video game idea. "Slack" stands for "Searchable Log of All Conversation and Knowledge."

[[Peter Thiel]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American billionaires, American Christians, American LGBT people, Gay men, LGBT businesspeople, LGBT Christians, Naturalized citizens of the United States, New Zealand businesspeople, People from Frankfurt, Stanford University alumni, Pages with unreviewed translations

Peter Andreas Thiel (teel; born October 11, 1967) is an American entrepreneur. He helped create PayPal, Palantir Technologies and Founders Fund. In 2018, he supposedly had $2.5 billion.

Thiel was born in Frankfurt. As a baby, he moved with his family to the United States. He spent some time in Southern Africa. He studied philosophy at Stanford University, graduating with a B.A. in 1989. He then went on to the Stanford Law School and received his J.D. in 1992. He worked as a lawyer, speechwriter, and trader. He founded Thiel Capital in 1996. He co-founded PayPal in 1999. He was chief executive officer until he sold the company to eBay in 2002 for $1.5 billion.

He founded Clarium Capital, a global macro hedge fund. He launched Palantir Technologies, a big data analysis company, in 2004 and continues to serve as its chairman as of 2018. He helped create Founders Fund, a venture capital firm. 

Thiel became Facebook's first outside investor by buying 10.2% for $500,000 in August 2004. He sold the majority of his shares in Facebook for over $1 billion in 2012, but remains on the board of directors. He also co-founded Valar Ventures in 2010, co-founded Mithril Capital.

[[Jackson County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1859 establishments in Kansas Territory

Jackson County (county code JA) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 13,462 people lived there. Its county seat is Holton. Holton is also the biggest city in Jackson County. The county was first named Calhoun County. This was named after pro-slavery South Carolina Senator John C. Calhoun. The county was renamed in 1859 for President Andrew Jackson.  The Prairie Band Potawatomi Indian Reservation is in the county, and it makes up about 18.5% of the county's area.

[[Crawford County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Crawford County, Kansas

Crawford County (county code CR) is a county in Southeast Kansas. In 2010 census, 39,134 people lived there. Its county seat is Girard. Its biggest city is Pittsburg. The county was named after Samuel J. Crawford, Governor of Kansas.

It is in the Osage Cuestas and Cherokee Lowlands. It is halfway between Kansas City, Missouri and Tulsa, Oklahoma. Pittsburg State University is located in Crawford County.

[[Neomercantilism]]

CATEGORIES: Economic history, Economic policy, Economic systems

Neomercantilism is a government policy that supports more exports, less imports, and more control over investment (capital movement). Also, the government has the power to make decisions involving money (currency). The goal is to increase foreign reserves, which gives the government more power over money.

[[Middle income trap]]

CATEGORIES: Economics

In economics the middle income trap happens when a country's GDP is stuck at some level and cannot increase.

The World Bank says that South Africa and Brazil have fell into the trap.

Economists think this happens because as a country sells more and gets richer, it pays higher wages. This increases the cost of selling stuff. So the countries lose their competitive advantage and get stuck, unable to sell more and get richer.

The World Bank says a country is in the 'middle-income range' if its gross national product per person stays between $1,000 to $12,000 (in 2011 prices).

[[Cowley County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Cowley County, Kansas

Cowley County (county code CL) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas.  In 2010, 36,311 people lived there. Its county seat is Winfield. Its biggest city is Arkansas City.

[[Wichita, KS Metropolitan Statistical Area]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas, Sedgwick County, Kansas

[[Finney County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1883 establishments in Kansas, Santa Fe Trail

Finney County (county code FI) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 36,776 people lived there. Its county seat is Garden City. Its biggest city is also Garden City.

[[Zion]]

CATEGORIES: Zionism, Jerusalem

Zion, is one of the seventy names of Jerusalem, and in the Bible is the second name for Jerusalem after the name "Jerusalem".  The name "Zion" originally revolves around a certain area in the city.  It is customary to delineate the site in the eastern and southern part of Jerusalem during the Second Temple period, including the City of David, the Ophel and Mount Moriah.

[[Levite]]

CATEGORIES: Jewish people

[[Promised Land]]

CATEGORIES: Zionism, Pages with unreviewed translations

The Promised Land (הארץ המובטחת, translit.: ha'aretz hamuvtakhat; أرض الميعاد, translit.: ard al-mi'ad; also known as "The Land of Milk and Honey") is very important in the Hebrew Bible. It is the land that God promised to Abraham and his descendants. Nowadays, it refers to the restored homeland for the Jewish people, a path to salvation and liberation, or both.

[[Greater Israel]]

CATEGORIES: Arab–Israeli conflict, Pages with unreviewed translations

Greater Israel (ארץ ישראל השלמה; Eretz Yisrael Hashlema) refers to the historic or desired borders of Israel. It is a form of irredentism.

It usually refers to the State of Israel together with the Palestinian territories. It is used in the Bible, sometimes called the Land of Israel. See , , ,  or .

[[Beitar Illit]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Palestine, Cities in Israel

Beitar Illit (בֵּיתָר עִלִּית; officially Betar Illit; "Illit" is pronounced "ee-leet"; بيتار عيليت) is an Israeli settlement organized as a city council, 10 south of Jerusalem,  in the Judaean Mountains of the West Bank. Beitar Illit, part of the Gush Etzion "settlement bloc",  is one of Israel's largest and most rapidly growing settlements,  and in Year had a population of Betar Illit.

[[Fiery flying serpent]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations

The fiery flying serpent is a snake creature mentioned in the Hebrew Bible (Book of Isaiah, the Book of Numbers, etc.). In biology it is the Echis coloratus (saw-scale viper).

[[Nehushtan]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations

The Nehushtan (Hebrew: נחשתן Nəḥuštān nə.ħuʃ.taːn) is the bronze serpent on a pole first described in the Book of Numbers. God told Moses to make it. This was to cure the Israelites. Those who saw the nehushtan would be cured from the deathly bites of the "fiery serpents". God initially sent the fiery serpents to punish them for speaking against Him and Moses (Numbers). 

In the biblical Books of Kings (2; written c. 550 BCE), King Hezekiah leads an iconoclastic reform. This requires the destruction of "the brazen serpent that Moses had made; for unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it; and it was called Nehushtan". The term means "a brazen thing, a mere piece of brass".

[[McPherson County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Kansas counties

McPherson County (standard abbreviation: MP) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 29,180 people lived there. The biggest city is McPherson. It is also the county seat. The county is named after Civil War General James B. McPherson.

[[Wendelin Werner]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Fields Medalists, 1968 births, Pages with unreviewed translations

Wendelin Werner (born 23 September 1968) is a German-born French mathematician. He works on random processes such as self-avoiding random walks, Brownian motion, Schramm–Loewner evolution, and probability theory and mathematical physics. In 2006, he won the Fields Medal "for his contributions to the development of stochastic Loewner evolution, the geometry of two-dimensional Brownian motion, and conformal field theory".  He is professor at ETH Zürich.

[[Harvey County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1872 establishments in Kansas

Harvey County (county code HV) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 34,684 people lived there. Its county seat is Newton. Newton is also the biggest city in Harvey County.

[[Greeley County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Greeley County (county code GL) is a county in western Kansas. It is in the Central United States. In 2010, 1,247 people lived there. It is the county with the fewest number of people living in it in Kansas. Its county seat is Tribune. Tribune is also the biggest city in the county. The county is named after Horace Greeley of Chappaqua, New York, editor of the New York Tribune. Greeley helped western settlement with the motto  "Go West, young man".

[[Allen County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Allen County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Allen County (county code AL) is a county located in southeast portion of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 13,371 people lived there. Its county seat is Iola. Iola is also the biggest city in Allen County.

[[Barton County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Barton County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Barton County (standard abbreviation: BT) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 27,674 people lived there. Its county seat is Great Bend. Great Bend is also the biggest city in Barton County. The county is named after Clara Barton. She was responsible for the creating the American Red Cross.

[[Franklin County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Franklin County (county code FR) is a county in the eastern part of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 25,992 people lived there. Its county seat is Ottawa. Ottawa is also the biggest city in Franklin County. The county is mostly rural. It was Kansas City metropolitan area, but it no longer is since 2013.

[[Dickinson County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1857 establishments in Kansas Territory, Dickinson County, Kansas

Dickinson County (county code DK) is a county in Central Kansas. In 2010, 19,754 people lived there. Its county seat is Abilene. Abilene is also the biggest city in Dickinson County. The county was named after Daniel S. Dickinson.

[[Chief Ahan]]

CATEGORIES: 1865 deaths, First Nations people, Executed people, History of Canada

Chief Ahan was a First Nations leader who was executed  in 1865. He was exonerated by Justin Trudeau, the Prime Minister of Canada, in 2018.

[[Józefa Joteyko]]

CATEGORIES: 1866 births, 1928 deaths, Polish psychologists, Polish academics, Polish physicians, Physiologists, People from Warsaw

Józefa Franciszka Joteyko (29 January 1866 – 24 April 1928) was a Polish medical doctor, physiologist, psychologist, pedagogist, and co-organizer of special education in Warsaw. She was born on January, 29, 1866, in Poczujki and died on April, 24, 1928, in Warsaw.

[[Industrial society]]

CATEGORIES: Society

In an industrial society, people use technology to produce a lot of things (mass production). This leads to a large population with an organized division of labour. This happened to the Western world during the Industrial Revolution. This replaced farming or agrarian societies of the pre-modern age.

The US and many European nations are examples of industrial societies. China and India are also somewhat industrial but large parts of their populations still farm.July 2019

[[CBRE]]

CBRE can refer to:

[[Savills]]

CATEGORIES: 1850s establishments in the United Kingdom, 1855 establishments in Europe, Companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, London

Savills plc is a global real estate services provider listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.

[[Hurricane Barry (2019)]]

CATEGORIES: Atlantic tropical storms, Category 1 Atlantic hurricanes, Hurricanes in Louisiana

Hurricane Barry was the fourth recorded storm to make landfall at hurricane strength on the state of Louisiana in the month of July, the others being Bob in 1979, Danny in 1997, and Cindy in 2005. The second named storm and first hurricane of the annual hurricane season, Barry originated as a mesoscale convective vortex over the Midwestern United States on July 4. The system emerged into the Gulf of Mexico on July 10 and was classified as a potential tropical cyclone later that day. The system developed into a tropical storm on the next day, becoming the second named storm of the season. On July 13, Barry attained maximum 1-minute sustained winds of 75 mph (120 km/h), with a minimum central pressure of 991 millibars (29.3 inHg), becoming the first hurricane of the season. Later that day, Barry made landfall on Marsh Island and Intracoastal City, Louisiana both times as a Category 1 hurricane, subsequently weakening to tropical storm status. Late on July 15, Barry degenerated into a remnant low over northern Arkansas, before dissipating on July 19.

[[Holland's schema theorem]]

CATEGORIES: Algorithms

Holland's schema theorem, also called the fundamental theorem of genetic algorithms, is a theorem regarding genetic algorithms. It says that individuals with a fitness that is higher than average are more likely to prevail.  John Holland proposed the theorem in the 1970s. At the start, it was used as the foundation for explanations of the power of genetic algorithms. This interpreation  has been criticized in several publications, where the Schema Theorem is shown to be a special case of the Price equation with the schema indicator function as the macroscopic measurement.  

A schema is a template that identifies a subset of strings with similarities at certain string positions. Schemata are a special case of cylinder sets, and hence form a topological space.

[[Ashurst]]

Ashurst may refer to:

[[Chinese economic reform]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations, History of the People's Republic of China

The Chinese economic reform (Gǎigé kāifàng) refers to the economic reforms in the People's Republic of China between the 1970s and 1990s. They were led by the Communist Party of China and Deng Xiaoping and started in December 1978. They were also called "Socialism with Chinese characteristics".

[[Round-bottom flask]]

CATEGORIES: Glass, Laboratory equipment

Round-bottom flasks (round-bottomed flasks or RB flasks) are types of flasks having spherical bottoms used as laboratory glassware.

They are used mostly for chemical or biochemical work. Today, they are usually made of heat-resistant borosilicate glass. There is at least one tubular section known as the neck with an opening at the tip. Two or three-necked flasks are made. Round bottom flasks come in many sizes.

[[Roelof Nelissen]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, Bankers, Catholic People's Party politicians, Deputy Prime Ministers of the Netherlands, Dutch businesspeople, Dutch Roman Catholics, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Politicians from Zeeland

Roelof Johannes Nelissen (4 April 1931 – 18 July 2019) was a Dutch politician and businessman. He was a member of the Catholic People's Party (KVP) (now the Christian Democratic Appeal). He was born in Hoofdplaat, Netherlands. Nelissen was the Deputy Prime Minister from 1971 to 1973 and Minister of Finance at the same time during the Barend Biesheuvel ministry. He was the CEO of the AMRO Bank from 1983 to 1991.

Nelissen died on 18 July 2019 in Hilversum, Netherlands at the age of 88.

[[Jan Terlouw]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Democrats 66 politicians, Deputy Prime Ministers of the Netherlands, Dutch children's writers, Dutch former Christians, Dutch physicists, Dutch provincial politicians, Former leaders of political parties in the Netherlands, Former members of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, Government ministers of the Netherlands, Members of the Senate of the Netherlands, Nuclear physicists, Politicians from Overijssel, Writers from Overijssel

Jan Cornelis Terlouw (born 15 November 1931) is a Dutch politician, physicist and writer. He is a member of the Democrats 66 (D66) party. Terlouw was born in Kamperveen, Netherlands. He was the Deputy Prime Minister and at the same time the Minister of Economic Affairs from 1981 to 1982 during the Dries van Agt ministry. A children's writer, his best known work is Winter in Wartime (Oorlogswinter, 1972).

[[Ágnes Heller]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2019 deaths, Accidental deaths by drowning, Philosophers, Political scientists, Political writers, Hungarian educators, Hungarian writers, People from Budapest

Ágnes Heller (12 May 1929 – 19 July 2019) was a Hungarian philosopher and educator. She was a member of the Budapest School philosophical forum in the 1960s. She later taught political theory for 25 years at the New School for Social Research in New York City. She was born in Budapest.

Heller drowned while swimming at Lake Balaton in Balatonalmádi, Hungary on 19 July 2019, aged 90.

[[Masha Gessen]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, American LGBT rights activists, American political commentators, Jewish activists, Jewish American writers, Journalists from New York City, Lesbian Jews, LGBT journalists, LGBT people from New York City, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Russian Jews, Russian LGBT people, Translators, Writers from Moscow

Masha Gessen (born Maria Alexandrovna Gessen (maˈrʲijə ɐlʲɪkˈsandrəvnəˈɡʲesən) 13 January 1967) is a Russian-American journalist, author, translator and activist. She is known for being a very vocal critic of the Russian President Vladimir Putin and American President Donald Trump. She was born in Moscow.

Gessen is openly a lesbian. She lives in New York City.

Gessen has written columns for The New York Times, The New York Review of Books, The Washington Post, the Los Angeles Times, The New Republic, New Statesman, Granta, Slate, Vanity Fair, Harper's Magazine, The New Yorker, and U.S. News & World Report.  Since 2017, she has been a staff writer for The New Yorker.

[[Sheila Dikshit]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, Governors of Kerala

Sheila Dikshit (née Kapoor; (31 March 1938 – 20 July 2019) was an Indian politician. She was born in Kapurthala, Punjab. Dikshit was a member of the Indian National Congress. She was a member of Lok Sabha (1984–1989), Chief Minister of Delhi (1998–2013) and Governor of Kerala (2014).

Dikshit died at a hospital in New Delhi on 20 July 2019 of cardiac arrest, aged 81.

[[R. L. Bhatia]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2021 deaths, Governors of Bihar, Governors of Kerala, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in India

[[Rama Jois]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2021 deaths, Governors of Bihar, Governors of Jharkhand, Indian writers, Indian activists, Deaths from cardiac arrest

Justice Mandagadde Rama Jois (27 July 1931 – 16 February 2021) was an Indian politician, activist and writer. He was a member of Rajya Sabha for the Bharatiya Janata Party. He was the governor of the Jharkhand and Bihar states. He was Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 1992. He was born in Araga, Shivamogga District.

Jois died of cardiac arrest on 16 February 2021 in Bangalore, India at the age of 89.

[[S. M. Krishna]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Governors of Maharashtra

Somanahalli Mallaiah Krishna (born 1 May 1932) is an Indian politician. He was Minister of External Affairs of India from 2009 to October 2012. He was a member of the Indian Parliament in the Rajya Sabha. Krishna was the 16th Chief Minister of Karnataka from 1999 to 2004 and the 19th  Governor of Maharashtra from 2004 to 2008.

[[S. C. Jamir]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, Governors of Goa, Governors of Gujarat, Governors of Maharashtra, Governors of Odisha

Senayangba Chubatoshi Jamir (born 17 October 1931) is an Indian politician. He was the Governor of Odisha from 2013 to 2018. He was the Chief Minister of Nagaland, Governor of Maharashtra, Governor of Gujarat, Governor of Goa and Governor of Odisha. Jamir is a member of the Indian National Congress. He was born in Ungma, Nagaland.

[[K. Sankaranarayanan]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, Governors of Arunachal Pradesh, Governors of Assam, Governors of Goa, Governors of Jharkhand, Governors of Maharashtra, Governors of Nagaland

Kateekal Sankaranarayanan (born 15 October 1932) is an Indian politician. He was the Governor of Maharashtra from 2010 to 2014. He also was the Governor of Nagaland and Jharkhand. He is a member of the Indian National Congress. He was born in Kerala.

[[R. D. Pradhan]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2020 deaths, Governors of Arunachal Pradesh

Ram D. Pradhan (27 June 1928 – 31 July 2020) was an Indian politician. He was an Indian Administrative Service officer. He was Union Home Secretary and Governor of Arunachal Pradesh during the Rajiv Gandhi government. He was in service of the government of India for 36 years.

Pradhan died on 31 July 2020, aged 92.

[[Jagannath Pahadia]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2021 deaths, Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in India, Governors of Bihar, Governors of Haryana

Jagannath Pahadia  (15 January 1932 – 19 May 2021) was an Indian politician. He was known for being the former leader of the Indian National Congress party. He was the Governor of Haryana from 2009 to 2014, Governor of Bihar from 1989 to 1990 and the Chief Minister of Rajasthan from 1980 to 1981. He was born in Rajasthan.

Pahadia died of COVID-19 at a hospital in New Delhi, India on 19 May 2021 at the age of 89.

[[Axial Age]]

CATEGORIES: History of religion, Ancient history, CS1 German-language sources (de), Pages with unreviewed translations

Axial Age (also Axis Age, from Achsenzeit) is a term invented by German philosopher Karl Jaspers. It refers to ancient history from between 8th to the 3rd century BCE. He says that this represents a turning point in human history.

New ways of thinking appeared in Iran, India, China and the Greco-Roman world. There were new religions and philosophies. Moreover they happened in parallel across Eurasia, without obvious contact.  

[[Attala County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Attala County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 19,564 people lived there. Its county seat is Kosciusko.

[[Franklin County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1800s establishments in Mississippi Territory, 1809 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Franklin County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 8,118 people lived there. Its county seat is Meadville. The county was founded on December 21, 1809 and named for Founding Father Benjamin Franklin.

[[Jefferson County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1799 establishments in the United States, 18th-century establishments in Mississippi Territory, Mississippi counties

Jefferson County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi; its western border is formed by the Mississippi River. As of the 2010 census, 7,726 people lived there. Its county seat is Fayette. The county was founded in 1799. It is named for U.S. President Thomas Jefferson.

[[Luminous intensity]]

CATEGORIES: Astronomy, Light, Measurement, Optics, Physical quantity, Physics, Physiology, SI units

In photometry, luminous intensity is a measure of the wavelength-weighted power emitted by a light source in a particular direction per solid angle unit, based on the luminosity function, a standardized model of the sensitivity of the human eye. The SI unit of luminous intensity is the candela (cd), an SI base unit.

[[Benton County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Benton County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 8,729 people lived there. Its county seat is Ashland.

[[Bolivar County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Bolivar County is a county located on the western border of the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 34,145 people lived there. Its county seats are Rosedale and Cleveland. The county was founded in 1836. It is named in honor of Simón Bolívar, early 19th-century leader of the liberation of many South American colonies from Spain.

[[Pontotoc County]]

Pontotoc County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Barton County]]

Barton County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Robie Creek, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Idaho

Robie Creek is a census-designated place (CDP) of Idaho in the United States.

[[Smiths Ferry, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Idaho

Smiths Ferry is a census-designated place (CDP) in Valley County, Idaho, United States. As of the 2010 census, there were 75 people living there.

[[Yellow Pine, Idaho]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Idaho, Census-designated places in Idaho

Yellow Pine is an unincorporated census-designated place of Valley County in the state of Idaho in the United States.

[[Garfield, Washington]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Washington

Garfield is a city in Whitman County, Washington, United States. The population was 597 at the 2010 census, down from 641 in 2000.

[[Leakey, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Leakey is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Real County.

[[Chickasaw County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Chickasaw County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 17,392 people lived there. Its county seats are Houston and Okolona.

[[Japonic languages]]

CATEGORIES: Japonic languages

The Japonic languages are a language family made up of languages native to the Japanese islands. Known members of the language family are Japanese and the Ryukyuan languages (Okinawan, Kunigami, Amami, Miyako, Yaeyama and Yonaguni).

All Japonic languages are agglutinative languages with a simple syllable structure and SOV word order. They have many similar features, but they are not mutually intelligible, which means native speakers of one language will not understand the other language without already knowing it.

While Japanese is the ninth most spoken language in the world, the Ryukyuan languages are critically endangered, which means there are very few speakers left. This was largely because of the Japanese government's assimilation of Ryukyu into the mainland Japanese culture. During the Meiji Era, the Japanese government called the Ryukyuan languages “dialects of Japanese”. This was used to forbid Ryukyuans from speaking the Ryukyuan languages and to force them to speak Japanese. In fact, Okinawan soldiers and civilians were put to death for speaking Okinawan during World War II. The Japanese military would accuse them of being spies so they could have an excuse to put them to death.

All of the languages write using a combination of Chinese characters, called kanji in Japanese, and kana, a Japanese-made syllabic writing system made for writing phonetically. This was true even before the Japanese takeover of the Ryukyu Kingdom.

[[Hakuna matata]]

CATEGORIES: The Lion King

Hakuna matata means "no worries" in Swahili, a language of East Africa. The phrase was used in the Disney movie The Lion King in a song of the same name.

In 2003 Disney trademarked the phrase in the US. In 2018, some people accused Disney or "colonialism" and "robbery" for stealing the phrase from East Africa. The phrase is popular in Kenya, one of the countries where it came from. But because of the trademark, Kenyans are not allowed to sell stuff to the US that use that phrase.

[[Baltimore oriole]]

CATEGORIES: Passeriformes, Maryland, Birds of North America

The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula) is a small icterid blackbird. It is common in eastern North America as a migratory breeding bird.

The Baltimore oriole is the state bird of Maryland. It is also the inspiration for the Baltimore Orioles baseball team.

[[Cosmogony]]

CATEGORIES: Universe, Creation myths, Pages with unreviewed translations

Cosmogony is any theory of the origin of the universe.

[[History of Russia]]

CATEGORIES: History of Russia, Pages with unreviewed translations

The history of Russia begins with the East Slavs, Turkic, and the Finno-Ugric peoples. Parts of Southern Russia around the Black sea were settled by Greeks and Romans until about the 3rd century. Huns and Turkic tribes invaded the regions around the Black sea until the 10th century. Eastern Slavs then immigrated to the region. Vikings created the Kievan Rus. In the 13th century, Mongols conquered the region and created the Golden Horde. The Mongols ruled until the 15th century. The tsardom of Russia and Russian empire were then created. Poland-Lithuania invaded Moscow, but Russia eventually drove them out. Russia expanded more west and east into Siberia. Napoleon tried to invade Russia during the winter but failed. Russia fought against Germany in WW1. In 1917, the October Revolution happened, and the communists led by Lenin created the Soviet Union. In WW2, Hitler also failed to invade Russia. Russia occupied East Germany, Poland, and most of East Europe during the Cold War. It became a big rival of the United States. In the 1990s, the Union ended, with things like the Yugoslavia revolution, and became modern Russia. In 2014 Russia annexed Crimea from the Ukraine and faced sanctions from US and others because of it.

[[Glauber dynamics]]

CATEGORIES: Physics

In statistical physics, Glauber dynamics is a way to simulate the Ising model (a model of magnetism) on a computer. It is a type of Markov Chain Monte Carlo algorithm.

[[Tropical Storm Danas (2019)]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 Pacific typhoon season

Tropical Storm Danas (International Code: 1905, Joint Typhoon Warning Center: WP062019, Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration: Falcon) is the 5th named tropical cyclone in the 2019 Pacific typhoon season.

[[Fort William (India)]]

CATEGORIES: British India, Kolkata

Fort William was the fort that was granted(britishers were allowed to construct it on the grounds of Bengal) to the britishers by the Nawab of Bengal for their short termed loyalty and sincerity they showed towards the Nawab.

[[Tuvan People's Republic]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 establishments in Asia, 1944 disestablishments, 1940s disestablishments in Asia, Former countries in Asia, Former countries of the Interwar period, Former republics, Former socialist republics, Geography of Russia, 20th century in Mongolia, 20th century in Russia, History of the Soviet Union, Siberia, Socialism, States and territories disestablished in the 20th century

Tuvan People's Republic was a partially recognized state that existed from 1921 to 1944. After 1944 it became part of the Soviet Union. Until 1926, it was also known as People's Republic Tannu-Tuva. Only two states recognized the it: the Soviet Union and Mongolia. Even when it existed, it was seen as a puppet state of the Soviet Union. Its economy was largely based on nomads raising and selling cattle. The republic was between the Siberian part of Russia, and Mongolia. The capital was the city of Kyzyl. Since 1992, the territory is known as the Tuvan Republic. It is a self-governing part inside the Russian state.

[[Grizzy and the Lemmings]]

CATEGORIES: Animated television series

Grizzy and the Lemmings is an French animation series, produced by Studio Hari for France Télévisions and Boomerang. The Heart TV series has 156 episodes in 3 seasons. Season 1 was realised for Netflix on July 20, 2019.

[[Mark Sanford]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, Living people, 2020 United States presidential candidates, United States representatives from South Carolina, Governors of South Carolina, American educators, Politicians from Florida, People from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, US Republican Party politicians, South Carolina Republicans

Marshall Clement "Mark" Sanford Jr. (born May 28, 1960) is an American politician. He is a member of the Republican. He was a U.S. Representative for South Carolina's 1st congressional district from 1995 to 2001. Sanford was then elected Governor of South Carolina from 2003 until 2011. He ran again for the U.S. House and was a congressman from 2013 to 2019. He lost in the 2018 Republican primary for his re-election bid.

Sanford is a teaching fellow at the University of Chicago Institute of Politics.

In July 2019, Sanford said that he was thinking of a 2020 presidential bid against President Donald Trump for the Republican nomination. He formally announced his candidacy on September 8, 2019. He dropped out from the race two months later on November 12.

[[Word (computer architecture)]]

CATEGORIES: Computing measurement

A word is the number of bits a particular computer's CPU can deal with in one go. 

Modern processors, including those in embedded systems, usually have a word size of 8, 16, 24, 32, or 64 bits.

[[Raffaele La Capria]]

CATEGORIES: 1922 births, Living people, Novelists, Italian screenwriters, People from Naples

Raffaele La Capria (born 3 October 1922) is an Italian novelist and screenwriter. He is known for his series of three novels (the most important is "Ferito a morte") which were known as Tre romanzi di una giornata. La Capria was born in Naples. He was married to actress Ilaria Occhini until her death in July 2019.

He worked as co-scriptwriter on many of Francesco Rosi's movies, including Le mani sulla città (1963), Uomini contro (1970) and Cristo si è fermato a Eboli (1979). In September 2001 he won a Premio Campiello lifetime achievement award and in 2005 L'estro quotidiano was selected as the winner of the Viareggio Prize for fiction.

[[Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, Presidents of Turkmenistan, Current national leaders, Asian politicians

Gurbanguly Mälikgulyýewiç Berdimuhamedow (born 29 June 1957) is a Turkmen politician. He is the 2nd and current President of Turkmenistan since February 2007.

Berdimuhamedow, a dentist, worked in the government under President Saparmurat Niyazov as Minister of Health. He is the first dentist in the world to head a state or a government.

[[President of Turkmenistan]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Turkmenistan

President of Turkmenistan (Turkmen:Türkmenistanyň prezidenti) is the head of state, head of government and the chief executive of Turkmenistan

Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow is the current President of Turkmenistan, only the second in the history of the country since it gained independence with the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.

The President is also the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Turkmenistan and the Chairman of the country's Cabinet of Ministers.

[[Raşit Meredow]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, Turkmenistan politicians, Vice presidents, People from Ashgabat

Raşit Öwezgeldiýewiç Meredow (Cyrillic: Рашит Өвезгелдиевич Мередов; born 1959) is a Turkmen politician. He is the Minister of Foreign Affairs since 2001, as well as a Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of Turkmenistan. He is also the First Vice President of Turkmenistan since 2007 working for the Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow administration.

[[Eberhard Kummer]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2019 deaths, Austrian singers, Austrian lawyers

Eberhard Kummer (2 August 1940 – 12 July 2019) was an Austrian folk singer and lawyer. He was an expert of medieval music. Kummer was born in Krems an der Donau, Austria.  He played the hurdy-gurdy, the harp and the guitar, and made important works to medieval music and the Austrian folksong.

Kummer died on 12 July 2019 in Vienna at the age of 78.

[[Rosa María Britton]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2019 deaths, Panamanian people, Novelists, Physicians

Rosa María Britton (July 28, 1936 – July 16, 2019) was a Panamanian doctor and novelist. She was born in Panama City. Her best known novels were: El ataúd de uso (1983), El señor de las lluvias y el viento (1984), No pertenezco a este siglo (1991), Laberintos de orgullo (2002) and Suspiros de fantasmas (2005).

Britton died on July 16, 2019 in Panama City at the age of 82.

[[Daniel Callahan]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, American philosophers, Writers from New York City, Writers from Washington, D.C.

Daniel Callahan (July 19, 1930 – July 16, 2019) was an American philosopher. He was an important person towards the field of biomedical ethics. He was the co-founder of The Hastings Center, the world's first bioethics research institute. He was the Director of The Hastings Center from 1969 to 1983, president from 1984 to 1996, and president emeritus from 1996 to 2019. He was the author or editor of 47 books. He was born in Washington, D.C..

Callahan died on July 16, 2019 in Dobbs Ferry, New York at the age of 88.

[[John Elya]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2019 deaths, Lebanese people

John Adel Elya (16 September 1928 – 19 July 2019) was a bishop of the Melkite Greek Catholic Church. From 1993 to 2004, he was Eparch of Newton, with jurisdiction over Melkite churches in the United States. He was born in Maghdouché, Lebanon.

Elya died on 19 July 2019 at the age of 90.

[[Bert Rechichar]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Disease-related deaths in Pennsylvania, Indianapolis Colts players, Cleveland Browns players, Pittsburgh Steelers players, Sportspeople from Pennsylvania

Albert Daniel "Bert" Rechichar (July 16, 1930 – July 19, 2019) was an American football defensive back and kicker. He played with the National Football League's Cleveland Browns, Baltimore Colts, and Pittsburgh Steelers from 1952 to 1960. He also played for the American Football League's New York Titans in 1961. He was born in Belle Vernon, Pennsylvania.

Rechichar died on July 19, 2019 in Belle Vernon, Pennsylvania from an illness, aged 89.

[[Belle Vernon, Pennsylvania]]

CATEGORIES: Boroughs in Pennsylvania

Belle Vernon is a borough in Fayette County, Pennsylvania, United States. It is near the Monongahela River. As of the 2010 census Belle Vernon had a population of 1,093.

[[Ilaria Occhini]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2019 deaths, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Italian stage actors, People from Florence

Ilaria Occhini (28 March 1934 – 20 July 2019) was an Italian actress. She starred in more than 30 movies. Her best known roles were Doctor and the Healer, Welcome to Home Gori and Loose Cannons. Her husband was screenwriter Raffaele La Capria.

Occhini died in Rome on 20 July 2019 at the age of 85.

[[José Manuel Estepa Llaurens]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2019 deaths, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, People from Madrid

José Manuel Estepa Llaurens (1 January 1926 – 21 July 2019) was a cardinal of the Catholic Church and Military Archbishop Emeritus of Spain from 1986 to 2003. He was born in Andújar, Spain.

He was created Cardinal-Priest of S. Gabriele Arcangelo all’Acqua Traversa by Pope Benedict XVI in a consistory at St. Peter's Basilica on 20 November 2010. Because he had already reached age 80, he was not eligible to participate in a conclave.

Estepa Llaurens died on 21 July 2019 in Madrid at the age of 93.

[[Louis Lansana Beavogui]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 1984 deaths, Prime Ministers of Guinea, Presidents of Guinea, Mayors, Diplomats, Deaths from diabetes, Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany

Louis Lansana Beavogui (28 December 1923 – 19 August 1984) was a Guinean politician. He was the first Prime Minister of Guinea from 26 April 1972 to 3 April 1984 and was interim President from 26 March 1984 to 3 April 1984.

Beavogui was born on 28 December 1923 in Macenta, French Guinea (now Guinea) and died of diabetes while hospitalized in Conakry, Guinea on 19 August 1984, aged 60.

[[Choctaw County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Choctaw County is a county in the central U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 8,547 people lived there. The county seat is Ackerman.

[[Claiborne County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1800s establishments in Mississippi Territory, 1802 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Claiborne County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 9,604 people lived there. Its county seat is Port Gibson.

[[Clarke County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Clarke County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 16,732 people lived there. Its county seat is Quitman.

[[Neshoba County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Neshoba County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 29,676 people lived there. Its county seat is Philadelphia.

[[Copiah County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1820s establishments in Mississippi, 1823 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Copiah County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 29,449 people lived there. Its county seat is Hazlehurst.

[[Covington County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s establishments in Mississippi, 1819 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Covington County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 19,568 people lived there. Its county seat is Collins.

[[Forrest County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1900s establishments in Mississippi, 1908 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Forrest County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 74,934 people lived there. Its county seat and largest city is Hattiesburg.

[[DeSoto County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

DeSoto County is a county in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 161,252 people lived there which makes it the third-most populous county in Mississippi. Its county seat is Hernando.

[[George County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in Mississippi, 1910 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

George County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 22,578 people lived there. Its county seat is Lucedale.

[[Ryukyu Kingdom]]

CATEGORIES: Okinawa Prefecture, History of Japan, Former monarchies of Asia, Ryukyu Islands, Ryukyu Kingdom

The Ryukyu Kingdom is a country that no longer exists in present-day Okinawa. Before Japan took control of it during the Meiji Era, it was an independent country with its own culture, government, and language. Okinawa was a major trading center in Asia, so there are aspects of Chinese, Japanese, and other Asian cultures that were blended into the native Okinawan culture.

The name Ryukyu is a transcription of the Chinese name for the region, Liuqiu (written as 琉球 in Chinese characters).

Before the Ryukyu Kingdom was created, Okinawa was made up of three countries: Nanzan, Chuzan, and Hokuzan. Chuzan took over the other two kingdoms, united the three kingdoms, and created the Ryukyu Kingdom. The kingdom had its own dynasty of kings and they ruled from Shuri Castle in the city of Shuri. Although they used to be different cities, Shuri is now in the northern part of present-day Naha.

[[Shurijo]]

CATEGORIES: Okinawa Prefecture

Shurijo or Shuri Castle was the palace where the Ryukyu kings lived before Okinawa became part of Japan. Since it was built when Okinawa was independent, the castle structure is very different from other castles in Japan. Shuri Castle is located in Shuri. Shuri was once the Ryukyu capital, but it is now part of the present-day city of Naha.

Throughout its history, it had been destroyed and rebuilt four times, including during the Battle of Okinawa. This is why the courtyard is a little asymmetrical, or lop-sided. It was a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

On the morning of 31 October 2019, a large fire broke out at the main hall of the castle. Seiden, Hokuden, Nanden and Bandokoro were completely destroyed. According to news sources, "Six castle buildings occupying some 4,200 square meters in total were destroyed." The fire was put out around 1:30 p.m.

[[Grenada County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Grenada County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 21,906 people lived there. Its county seat is Grenada.

[[Sweetwater, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Sweetwater is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Nolan County.

[[Shuri]]

CATEGORIES: Okinawa Prefecture

Shuri was the capital of the former countries of Chuzan and later of the Ryukyu Kingdom, which were in present-day Okinawa. The Ryukyu kings would rule the kingdom from Shuri Castle. Today, it is a district of the present-day city of Naha. Shuri and Naha used to be different cities, but since Okinawa became part of Japan, Shuri would no longer be the capital. The Japanese government made Naha, which was a nearby port city, to be Okinawa's capital instead. Today, Shuri Station it is the last stop on the Okinawa Urban Monorail.

[[Mamady Youla]]

CATEGORIES: 1961 births, Prime Ministers of Guinea, African businesspeople, Living people

Mamady Youla (born 1961) is a Guinean businessman and politician. He was the Prime Minister of Guinea from 29 December 2015 to 24 May 2018.

[[Okinawa Urban Monorail]]

CATEGORIES: Okinawa Prefecture, Japanese railways

The Okinawa Urban Monorail, or the Yui Rail, is a monorail train line in Naha, the capital of Okinawa, Japan. It is the only public train line in the entire prefecture, and right now the entire line is only in Naha. It has 15 stops, beginning from Naha Airport and ending in Shuri Station. There are plans to extend the line to Urasoe City. There are also plans to allow passengers to pay using Suica by the spring of 2020.

[[Social commentary]]

CATEGORIES: Sociology

Social commentary is indirectly expressing an opinion on how society should change. Martin Luther, Jonathan Swift and Charles Dickens are among many people who wrote social commentaries.

[[Low comedy]]

CATEGORIES: Comedy, Satire

Low comedy is a form of comedy that is meant only to make people laugh without any satire or social commentary. Low comedy can have people getting drunk, getting hit in the face with pies, tripping over banana peels and getting wedgies.  The name "Low Comedy" was created by John Dryden. It is often seen as the opposite of High Comedy.

[[High Comedy]]

CATEGORIES: Comedy, Satire

High Comedy is a form of Comedy based on wit, satire or clever dialogue.  The phrase High Comedy was created by George Meredith in his 1877 essay on comedy in which he says that it is the opposite of Low Comedy.

[[Hyde Park and Regent's Park bombings]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 in the United Kingdom, 1980s crimes in the United Kingdom, 1980s explosions in Europe, 1980s in London, 1980s murders in Europe, Attacks on buildings and structures in London, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1980s, Car and truck bombings in Europe, Explosions in London, July events, Mass murder in London, Mass murder in the 1980s, Provisional Irish Republican Army, Terrorist incidents in London, Terrorist incidents in the United Kingdom in the 1980s

The Hyde Park and Regent's Park bombings occurred on 20 July 1982. Members of the Provisional Irish Republican Army used a bomb in each park to attack British military ceremonies in central London.

In Hyde Park, a nail bomb in a car exploded. It killed four soldiers and seven horses.

In Regent's Park, a bomb underneath a bandstand killed seven military bandsmen.

[[Mainland Japan]]

CATEGORIES: Japan

Mainland Japan is the name used to describe all the regions of Japan except for Hokkaido and Okinawa. Until the end of World War II, the name included Hokkaido and Okinawa, but it excluded all the colonies of the Japanese Empire, including Korea and Taiwan. However, since the colonies are no longer under control of Japan, those places have no reason to call Japan "the mainland."

However, they are still used by residents of Okinawa and Hokkaido because their cultures and native people are different from the other parts of Japan.

In Hokkiado, the word Dogai is also used. It means every part of Japan outside of Hokkaido.

[[Japanese knotweed]]

CATEGORIES: Plants of Asia

Japanese knotweed (Persicaria japonica) is a perennial herbaceous plant.  It lives in Asian countries including Taiwan, Japan and southern China.

[[Outer Mongolian Revolution of 1911]]

CATEGORIES: 20th century in Mongolia

The Outer Mongolian Revolution of 1911 happened when Outer Mongolia did not want to be part of the Qing dynasty anymore. They wanted to govern themselves. It happened at the same time as the Xinhai Revolution. 

Outer Mongolia is now the modern country of Mongolia. It is different from Inner Mongolia, which is in China.

[[Korean Empire]]

CATEGORIES: History of Korea, 1897 establishments, 1910 disestablishments, Empires

The Korean Empire (Daehan Jeguk, 대한제국) lasted between 1897 and 1910. It was the last time Korea was unified and independent. After the First Sino-Japanese War, Korea was no longer a Chinese tributary state. But then in 1910, Japan annexed Korea. Korea became a Japanese colony until 1945. Then after the Korean War it split.

[[Japanese annexation of Korea]]

CATEGORIES: History of Korea, Pages with unreviewed translations, 1910, 20th century in Japan

The Japanese annexation of Korea happened in 1910. The Empire of Japan annexed (made part of its territory) the Korean Empire. In Japanese it is also called 日韓併合、朝鮮併合、日韓合邦 which translate as annexation of Korea, annexation of Joseon (an old name of Korea), and unification of Japan and Korea. 

Then Japanese ruled Korea until 1945, after the Potsdam Conference at the end of World War II. 

[[Ellsworth County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Ellsworth County (county code EW) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 6,497 people lived there. Its county seat is Ellsworth. Ellsworth is also the biggest city in the county.

[[Hot pot]]

CATEGORIES: Foods

Hot pot is a popular food throughout China, and its popularity is increasing in other countries. Hot pot restaurants can be found in many places in China. Hot pot is a pot of boiling water, often with chili oil inside, where people put in whatever food they like to boil. Food that is cooked often includes thin slices of meat, starches, vegetables, mushrooms, and noodles. Chengdu and Chongqing hot pot are especially well-known throughout China and worldwide. In Japanese, the dish is called shabu-shabu.

[[Death Parade]]

Death Parade is a 2015 Japanese anime television series. It was created, written, and directed by Yuzuru Tachikawa and produced by Madhouse. The television series aired in Japan between January 9, 2015 and March 27, 2015.

[[Birmingham pub bombings]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 in Europe, 1970s crimes in Europe, 1970s disasters in Europe, 1970s explosions, 1970s in the United Kingdom, Attacks on bars, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1970s, Birmingham, Building bombings in England, Mass murder in England, Mass murder in the 1970s, November events, Provisional Irish Republican Army, Terrorist incidents in the 1970s

The Birmingham pub bombings were carried out by the Provisional Irish Republican Army on 21 November 1974. Two bombs exploded in pubs in Birmingham, West Midlands, England, killing 21 people.

The first bomb exploded in the Mulberry Bush, killing ten people.

The second bomb exploded in the Tavern in the Town, killing eleven people.

A third bomb was planted in the doorway of a branch of Barclays bank. It was found by a policeman and did not explode. 

The Birmingham bombings were 20th century England's most deadly terrorist attack.  

[[List of heads of state of India]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of heads of state, Politics of India

This is a list of the heads of state of India, from the independence of India in 1947 to the present day. The current head of state of India is Ram Nath Kovind, elected in 2017 after being nominated by BJP, the party run by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

From 1947 to 1950 the head of state under the Indian Independence Act 1947 was King of India, who was also the Monarch of the United Kingdom and of the other Dominions of the British Commonwealth. The monarch was represented in India by a Governor-General. India became a republic under the Constitution of 1950 and the Monarch and Governor-General were replaced by a ceremonial President.

[[Gravitino]]

CATEGORIES: Cosmology, Elementary particles, Quantum mechanics

A gravitino is a theoretical particle that physicists think will carry the force of gravity. There is no confirmation of the particle's existence.

[[Louisiana Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Midwestern United States, Louisiana

The Territory of Louisiana or Louisiana Territory was an organized incorporated territory of the United States. It was made from the former Louisiana (New France) on July 4, 1805. It lasted until June 4, 1812, when it was renamed the Missouri Territory.

[[Guo Shoujing]]

CATEGORIES: 1314 deaths, Pages with unreviewed translations

Guo Shoujing (c=郭守敬, 1231–1316), or Ruosi (若思), was a Chinese astronomer, engineer, and mathematician. He lived during the Yuan Dynasty (1271–1368). He is considered one of the greatest scientists in Chinese history. Guo was a major influence in the development of science.

He improved the Grand Canal, built a human-made lake (Kunming lake), created one of the most accurate calendars in history, invented some of the most accurate clocks during his time, and made many other contributions to math, astronomy, and hydraulics (water engineering).

[[Grand Canal (China)]]

CATEGORIES: World Heritage Sites in China, Pages with unreviewed translations, Canals, Bodies of water of Asia

The Grand Canal or Dayunhe or Jing–Hang Grand Canal (京杭大运河) is the longest and oldest canal and artificial river in the world. 

It starts in Beijing; passes through Tianjin, Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu and Zhejiang; and ends in Hangzhou.

It connects China's two longest rivers: the Yellow River and the Yangzi. 

The oldest parts of the canal were built during the 5th century BC.  

The Sui dynasty (581–618 AD) added some other parts. Between 1271–1633, the Yuan dynasty (through Guo Shoujing and others) and the Ming dynasty improved it and built parts to direct water to Beijing. 

The total length is 1776. Its greatest height is 42 m (138 ft) near the Shandong mountains.

Song Dynasty (960–1279) engineer Qiao Weiyue invented the pound lock in the 10th century. This allowed ships to travel higher and lower through the canal. 

The canal amazed many people throughout history including Japanese monk Ennin (794–864), Persian historian Rashid al-Din (1247–1318), Korean official Choe Bu (1454–1504), and Italian missionary Matteo Ricci (1552–1610).

Historically, flooding of the Yellow River threatened to break the canal. During wartime the canal was even used as a weapon: the dikes of the Yellow River were sometimes broken to flood the enemy troops. But this caused disasters and hurt the economy. 

The Canal has greatly improved China's economy and increased trade between the north and south. It is still used heavily to this day.

It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

[[Slavery in the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Slavery, History of the United States, African-American history

Slavery in the United States was the legal institution of human slavery in the United States. Slaves were mostly Africans and African Americans. Slavery existed in the United States of America in the 18th and 19th centuries. Slavery existed in British America from early colonial days. Slavery was legal in all Thirteen Colonies at the time of the Declaration of Independence in 1776. It lasted in about half the states until 1865. This was when it was banned in the entire country by the Thirteenth Amendment.

By the time of the American Revolution (1775–1783), slaves had been institutionalized as a racial caste. The caste associated with African ancestry. When the United States Constitution was ratified in 1789, a small number of free people of color were able to vote. This was because they were men who owned property. During and shortly after the Revolutionary War, abolitionist laws were passed in most Northern states, and there was a movement created to end slavery. Slave states tried to extend slavery into new Western territories. They wanted to do this to keep their share of political power in the country. Southern leaders also wanted to annex Cuba as a slave territory. The United States became split over the issue of slavery. It was split into slave and free states. The Mason–Dixon line divided the country. The line divided (free) Pennsylvania from (slave) Maryland.

While Jefferson was president, Congress prohibited the importation of slaves, effective 1808. Although smuggling (illegal importing) through Spanish Florida was common. Slave trading within the United States, however, continued at a fast pace. This was because there was a need for labor due to the creation of cotton plantations in the Deep South. New communities of African-American culture were created in the Deep South. There were 4 million slaves in the Deep South before they were set free.

[[Primatologist]]

CATEGORIES: Branches of zoology, Evolutionary biology, Primates, Psychology, Zoology

Primatology is the study of nonhuman primates. It is a diverse discipline, and primatologists can be found in biology, anthropology, psychology and other departments.

[[Nebraska Territory]]

CATEGORIES: Nebraska

The Territory of Nebraska was an organized incorporated territory of the United States. It existed from May 30, 1854, until March 1, 1867, when the part of the territory was admitted to the Union as the State of Nebraska. The Nebraska Territory was created by the Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854. The territorial capitol was Omaha. The territory included areas of what is today Nebraska, Wyoming, South Dakota, North Dakota, Colorado, and Montana.

[[Hancock County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s establishments in Mississippi Territory, 1812 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Hancock County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 43,929 people lived there. Its county seat is Bay St. Louis. The county was created in 1812. It is named for Founding Father John Hancock.

The county is along the Gulf of Mexico and the state line with Louisiana.

[[Holmes County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Holmes County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 19,198 people lived there. Its county seat is Lexington.

[[Humphreys County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in Mississippi, 1918 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Humphreys County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 9,375 people lived there. Its county seat is Belzoni.

[[Issaquena County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in Mississippi, 1844 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Issaquena County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 1,406 people lived there. Its county seat is Mayersville.

[[Itawamba County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Itawamba County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 23,401 people lived there. Its county seat is Fulton.

[[Jackson County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s establishments in Mississippi Territory, 1812 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Jackson County is a county in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 139,668 people lived there which makes it the fifth-most populous county in Mississippi. Its county seat is Pascagoula.

[[Jasper County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Jasper County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 17,062 people lived there. Its county seats are Bay Springs and Paulding.

[[Jefferson Davis County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1900s establishments in Mississippi, 1906 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Jefferson Davis County is a county located in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 12,487 people lived there. Its county seat is Prentiss. The county was founded on March 31, 1906. It is named in honor of Mississippi Senator and Confederate President Jefferson Davis.

[[Kemper County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Kemper County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 10,456 people lived there. Its county seat is De Kalb.

[[Lafayette County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1836 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Lafayette County is a county in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 47,351 people lived there. Its county seat is Oxford.

[[Union County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Union County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 27,134 people lived there. Its county seat is New Albany.

[[Lamar County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1900s establishments in Mississippi, 1904 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Lamar County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 55,658 people lived there. Its county seat is Purvis.

[[Smith County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Smith County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 16,491 people lived there. Its county seat is Raleigh.

[[Raleigh, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Mississippi, County seats in Mississippi

Raleigh is a town in, and the county seat of, Smith County, Mississippi, United States. The population was 1,462 at the 2010 census, making it the largest town in Smith County.

[[Gainesville, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Gainesville is a city in the U.S. state of Texas. It is the county seat of Cooke County.

[[Lauderdale County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Lauderdale County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 80,261 people lived there. Its county seat is Meridian. The county was founded in 1833. It is named for Colonel James Lauderdale, who was killed at the Battle of New Orleans in the War of 1812.

[[Songtsen Gampo]]

CATEGORIES: Year of birth unknown, 649 deaths, 7th century births, Pages with unreviewed translations

[[2019 North Indian Ocean cyclone season]]

CATEGORIES: North Indian Ocean cyclones, 2019 in weather

The 2019 North Indian Ocean cyclone season was the annual cycle of tropical cyclone formation. The North Indian Ocean cyclone season has no official bounds, but cyclones tend to form between April and December, with two peaks in activity in May and November. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the northern Indian Ocean. The season's first named storm, Pabuk, entered the basin on January 4, becoming the earliest-forming cyclonic storm of the North Indian Ocean on record.

The season currently contains 3 depressions, 3 deep depressions, 3 cyclonic storms and 2 very severe cyclonic storms.

[[Deal barracks bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 1989 in Europe, 1980s explosions in Europe, 1980s murders in the United Kingdom, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1980s, British Army, Building bombings in England, Kent, Mass murder in England, Mass murder in the 1980s, Provisional Irish Republican Army, September events, Terrorist incidents in the United Kingdom in the 1980s

The Deal barracks bombing was an attack on the Royal Marine Depot in Deal, Kent, England on 22 September 1989. The Provisional Irish Republican Army used a time bomb to kill 11 military bandsmen.

[[Tropical Storm Pabuk (2019)]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 Pacific typhoon season

Tropical Storm Pabuk, also referred to as Cyclonic Storm Pabuk, was a weak storm that hit the Malay Peninsula in January 2019. It was also the earliest storm in both the Western Pacific and North Indian Ocean basins on record. Forming on the last day of 2018, Pabuk went into 2019 and crossed into the North Indian Ocean basin several days later. The first storm of the 2019 Pacific typhoon and North Indian Ocean cyclone seasons, Pabuk first appeared as a tropical disturbance in the South China Sea on December 28, 2018, which organized into a tropical depression on December 31.

[[United States Naval Research Laboratory]]

The United States Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) is the corporate research laboratory for the United States Navy and the United States Marine Corps. It conducts basic scientific research, applied research, technological development and prototyping.

[[Mobility as a service]]

CATEGORIES: Public transport

Mobility as a Service (MaaS) is transportation that you can buy but do not have to own.

For example, you can pay an Uber car to pick you up, but you do not own that car.

Or you can pay for a city bike to travel around the city, but you do not own the bike.

In each case, you pay for the transportation.

Public buses, taxis, subways, high-speed rail, and airplanes are already forms of MaaS.

MaaS is already becoming popular around the world from the US, Europe, Japan, Korea, to China.

[[Khazars]]

CATEGORIES: 618 establishments, Caucasus, Ethnic groups in Asia, Ethnic groups in Europe, Former countries in Asia, Former countries in Europe, Former monarchies of Asia, Former monarchies of Europe, Nomadic people, Russia, Turkic peoples

The Khazars were a semi-nomadic Turkic people. They formed an empire called Khazaria in Russia from the 6th to 10th century CE. They came from the Western Turkic Khaganate of the Eurasian steppe, after it was conquered by Tang China.

Khazaria was an international trading center. It was an important place on the Silk Road that linked China, the Middle East, and the Kievan Rus'. For three centuries (c. 650–965) the Khazars conquered the area from the Volga-Don steppes to Crimea and the Caucasus.

Khazaria was between the Byzantine Empire, the steppe nomads, and the Umayyad Caliphate. It helped Byzantine defend itself from the Sasanian Persian empire. The alliance ended around 900. Between 965 and 969, the Kievan Rus replaced Khazaria.

Tengrism may have been the main religion, as it was for the Huns and Turkic peoples. Abrahamic religions were also popular. The ruling class may have converted to Judaism in the 8th century.

Some people think that the Cossacks, Muslim Kumyks, Kazakhs, and some Jews, like the Ashkenazi Jews, descended from the Khazars. Some disagree.

[[Eminem singles discography]]

CATEGORIES: Eminem songs

This is the singles discography page of American rapper Eminem. This list has his 78 singles, he had made in his music career. To date, Eminem has sold over 42 million track downloads in the United States alone.

[[Batam]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Indonesia

Batam (also called Batam City) is an industrial city in the province of Riau Islands, Indonesia. Over 1 million people live in it. It is the biggest city in Riau Islands, and the third biggest city in Sumatra. It is part of the Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand and Indonesia-Malaysia-Singapore free-trade zone.

The city administrative covers an area of 3 big islands with some small islands surround them. The 3 big islands are Batam, Rempang, and Galang. The islands are conected by bridges called Barelang Bridges (Jembatan Barelang) that is a short name for Batam-Rempang-Galang Bridges.

[[Republic of Upper Volta]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 establishments, 1950s establishments in Africa, French-speaking countries, 1984 disestablishments

Republic of Upper Volta is an old name for the country in Africa which is known as Burkina Faso today. It was a French colony, which became independent in 1960. Upper Volta existed as a French colony from 1918 to 1932. In 1932, it was disbanded, and its territory was shared between the neighboring countries, French Sudan, Niger and Ivory Coast. In 1947, Upper Volta was restored, with its former borders.

[[Spaceship Earth]]

CATEGORIES: Earth, Sustainability

Spaceship Earth (or Spacecraft Earth or Spaceship Planet Earth) is a world view encouraging everyone on Earth to act as a harmonious crew working toward the greater good.

[[Mutesa II of Buganda]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1969 deaths, African politicians, Alumni of the University of Cambridge, Kings and queens, Members of the Order of the British Empire, Presidents of Uganda, Ugandan politicians

Sir Edward Frederick William David Walugembe Mutebi Luwangula Muteesa II (19 November 1924 – 21 November 1969) was Kabaka of the Kingdom of Buganda from 22 November 1939 until his death. He was the thirty-fifth Kabaka of Buganda and the first President of Uganda. The foreign press often referred to him as King Freddie, a name rarely used in Uganda

[[Er Wang San Ke]]

CATEGORIES: History of China

Erwang Sanke (二王三恪) or "the two crownings and the three respects" is something Chinese emperors did to honor the previous dynasty. For example the Sui dynasty came directly before the Tang. So the Tang may honor descendants of the Sui royal family. The Tang would do this by giving these Sui descendants land to rule over. The Tang said you can control these lands and use laws of the previous Sui dynasty if you wish. There may also be a sacrifice at a religious place.

This was done to show respect to previous dynasties. This was also to make a peaceful transition of power.

It has been done in every major Chinese dynasty from the Xia to the Qing.

Sometimes people would pretend to be the descendants of the previous dynasty just to get this benefit.

[[NEC]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century establishments in Japan, 1890s establishments in Asia, 1899 establishments, Companies listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Technology companies of Japan, Electronics companies, Mobile phone companies, Multinational technology companies, Tokyo

NEC Corporation is a Japanese multinational provider of information technology (IT) services and products. It is headquartered in Minato, Tokyo, Japan. It provides IT and network solutions to businesses, communications services providers and to government agencies. It has also been the biggest PC seller in Japan since the 1980s. The company was known as the Nippon Electric Company, Limited, before rebranding in 1983 as NEC.

NEC was the world's fourth biggest PC manufacturer by 1990. Its NEC Semiconductors business unit was the global semiconductor sales leader between 1985 and 1990, the second largest in 1995, one of the top three in 2000, and one of the top 10 in 2006. It was still one of the top 20 semiconductor sales leaders before merging with Renesas Electronics. NEC is a member of the Sumitomo Group.

NEC was #463 on the 2017 Fortune 500 list.

[[Neoconservatism]]

CATEGORIES: Conservatism, Articles with dead external links from May 2017, All articles with dead external links

Neoconservatism refers to things that are pro-American nationalist interest in international affairs. This includes bigger military, pro-democracy, nationalism, anti-communism. It started in the United States during the 1960s. Neocons supported the Vietnam war, but disliked the Democratic party, Great Society, and the New Left.

Neoconservative sometimes refers to people who started as anti-Stalinists and then became American conservatives during the 1960s and 1970s.

[[Han Buddhism]]

Han Buddhism (漢傳佛教) or Chinese buddhism refers to Buddhism written in Chinese characters (hanzi) or that of the East Asian cultural sphere. It is one of the three main existing schools of Buddhism: the other two are Tibetan Buddhism and Theravada. It is mainly practiced in China, Japan, Korea, and Vietnam. It has had a great impact on East Asian culture.

Like Tibetan Buddhism, Han Buddhism comes from Mahayana, the branch of Buddhism written mainly in Sanskrit and from northern India.

Han Buddhism has a lot of interaction between the Indian religions and Chinese religions (like Taoism).

[[Yuji Naka]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Sega people, Living people

Yuji Naka is a Japanese video game programmer, designer, and producer. He is best known as the former head of Sonic Team, where he was the lead programmer of the original Sonic the Hedgehog series of games on the Sega Genesis. In 2006, he created Prope, an independent game company. In January 2018, he joined Square Enix.

[[American exceptionalism]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnocentrism, American culture

American exceptionalism is the belief that 

[[Cartigny, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Geneva

Cartigny is a municipality of the Canton of Geneva, Switzerland.

[[Neoconservatism (Japan)]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Japan

Neoconservatism in Japan refers to the new generation of Japanese conservatives.

They are nationalistic and think Japan is unique and special.

They think they are not responsible for Japan's conquests and wartime history, Japanese war crimes, the Nanjing Massacre, and the Japanese colonization of Korea.

They want to change the Japanese constitution and remove Article 9. After losing WW2, Japan wrote into its constitution that it is not allowed to wage war. This is Article 9. The USA helped write it because he wanted to prevent Japan from ever attacking the US or any other country like when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor. 

However Japanese neoconservatives want to restore the military in that they want to use the Japanese "Self-Defense" Forces to for more than just "self-defense". But this is against Article 9.

Some like Shinzō Abe have visited the Yasukuni Shrine to honor Japanese soldiers who murdered and raped Koreans, Chinese, and other Asians. 

They do not like China and refuse to apologize for Imperial Japan's war crimes. 

They do not like Korea either, North or South. They do not think their relationship with Korea is special. 

Some like Shintaro Ishihara want fewer immigrants. Some want to ban foreigners from voting, and only "Japanese nationals" should have the right. 

[[Gy, Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Geneva

Gy is a municipality of the canton of Geneva in Switzerland, near the border with France.

[[Su Dingfang]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations, Chinese military people

Su Dingfang (苏定方, 591–667) was a leading general of the Chinese Tang Dynasty. He won many battles. In 657 he destroyed the Western Turkic Khaganate. This expanded the Tang's western borders to their farthest extent (deep into Central Asia, close to modern Iran). In 660, he also conquered Baekje.

He was born in Wuyi (武邑, modern Hengshui, Hebei). 

[[Sonic the Hedgehog 2 (8-bit)]]

CATEGORIES: Sonic the Hedgehog games, Video game sequels, Master System games, Game Gear games

Sonic the Hedgehog 2 is a platform game developed by Aspect and published by Sega for the Master System and Game Gear. The Master System version was released in Europe on October 1992. The Game Gear version was released in Europe in October 1992, and in North America and Japan in November 1992. It's a sequel to Sonic the Hedgehog for Master System and Game Gear.

The Master System version of the game was not released outside Europe and Brazil. The Master System version was released for the Wii's Virtual Console in 2008.

[[Zhongyuan]]

CATEGORIES: People's Republic of China, Plains

Zhongyuan (p=) or the Central Plains are plains in the middle of China. It is southwest of Beijing. The Yellow River goes through it. It is where Chinese civilization originated from. 

It is part of the North China Plain.

Since the beginning of recorded history, the Central Plain had central importance to the Middle Kingdom (China 中国).

It was considered the “Center of the World”. It was the capital of the Xia dynasty. The earliest Chinese writing, the Jiahu symbols and Jiagu writing came from here.

Zhongyuan is sometimes used to refer to all of Chinese civilization.

[[Cuphead]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

Cuphead is a run and gun indie video game developed and published by StudioMDHR. It was announced in 2013. It was released for Microsoft Windows and Xbox One in September 2017. It was released for macOS in October 2018, and for Nintendo Switch in April 2019. The game was inspired by the rubber hose style of animation used in cartoons of the 1930s.

[[Polygon (website)]]

CATEGORIES: Video games

Polygon is an American video game website that publishes news, culture, reviews, and videos. Polygon wanted to focus on the stories of the people making the games instead of the games themselves. They also produced long-form magazine-style feature articles, invested in video content, and chose to let their review scores be updated as the game changed.

[[Slavic paganism]]

CATEGORIES: Paganism, Religions, Slavic mythology

Slavic paganism describes Slavic pagan beliefs before baptism and Christianisation

Slavs had their own mythology.

Sources about Slavs and their beliefs mainly come from the old Ruthenian chronicles and notes of German bishops. A lot of information contains Helmold's Chronica Sclavorum. There's also Chronicle of Thietmar, and the other chronicles, although they are not the only sources of information about Slavs and their beliefs. There's also for example from the diary of a Jewish trader of the Slaves - Ibrahim Ibn Jacob.

[[Daphne du Maurier]]

CATEGORIES: 1907 births, 1989 deaths, Bisexual people, British LGBT people, British novelists, British playwrights, British screenwriters, British writers, LGBT novelists, LGBT writers, Members of the Order of the British Empire, People from Cornwall

Dame Daphne du Maurier DBE (13 May 1907 - 19 April 1989) was a British author. She is best known for her books Jamaica Inn (1936), Rebecca (1938) and The Birds (1952).

[[Yukiya Amano]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2019 deaths, Japanese politicians

Yukiya Amano was a Japanese diplomat. He was the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) from July 2009 until his death in July 2019. Amano was an international civil servant for the United Nations. 

Amano died on 18 July 2019 at the age of 72.

[[Don Mossi]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2019 deaths, Cleveland Indians players, Detroit Tigers players, Chicago White Sox players, Kansas City Athletics players, Sportspeople from California

Donald Louis Mossi (January 11, 1929 – July 19, 2019) was an American major league pitcher from 1954 to 1965. He was a left-handed control pitcher. He played for the Cleveland Indians (1954–1958), Detroit Tigers (1959–1963), Chicago White Sox (1964) and for the Kansas City Athletics (1965). Mossi was born in St. Helena, California.

Mossi died on July 19, 2019 in Nampa, Idaho at age 90.

[[St. Helena, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Napa County, California

St. Helena (h hə; Wappo: Anakotanoma, "Bull Snake Village") is a city in Napa County, California. The population was 5,814 at the 2010 census.

[[Peter McNamara]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2019 deaths, Australian Open champions, Australian tennis players, Cancer deaths in Germany, Deaths from prostate cancer, Sportspeople from Melbourne, Wimbledon champions

Peter McNamara (5 July 1955 – 20 July 2019) was an Australian tennis player and coach. McNamara won five singles titles and nineteen doubles titles in his career. He won the 1980 and 1982 men's doubles championship at Wimbledon and the Australian Open doubles in 1979. McNamara's highest rank in doubles was No. 3. He was born in Melbourne.

McNamara died on 20 July 2019, at the age of 64, from prostate cancer in Sonthofen, Bavaria, Germany.

[[Chicago Daily News]]

CATEGORIES: Newspapers in Chicago

The Chicago Daily News was an afternoon daily newspaper in the midwestern United States, published between 1876 and 1978 in Chicago, Illinois. In 1984, Weston sold his rights to the Chicago Daily News trademark to Rupert Murdoch, who, at the time, was owner and publisher of the Chicago Sun-Times.

[[Hugo Cóccaro]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Argentine politicians

Hugo Omar Cóccaro (4 May 1954 – July 21 2019) was an Argentine Justicialist Party (PJ) politician. He was Governor of Tierra del Fuego Province from 2005 to 2007. Cóccaro was born in Saladillo, Argentina.

Cóccaro died on 21 July 2019 in Buenos Aires at the age of 65. The cause was cancer.

[[Antonino Cuffaro]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2019 deaths, Italian politicians, Communists

Antonino Cuffaro (21 April 1932 – 20 July 2019) was an Italian politician. He was born in Sambuca di Sicilia, Italy. Cuffaro was a member of the Italian Parliament from 1976 to 1987 and again from 1994 to 1996. He was a member of the Italian Communist Party.

Cuffaro died on 20 July 2019 in Trieste, Italy at the age of 87.

[[Paul Krassner]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2019 deaths, American political writers, American political activists, Writers from New York City, Comedians from New York City, Journalists from New York City

Paul Krassner (April 9, 1932 – July 21, 2019) was an American author, journalist and comedian. He was the founder, editor and a contributor to the freethought magazine The Realist. Krassner became an important figure in the counterculture of the 1960s as a member of Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters. He was a founding member of the Yippies. 

Krassner died on July 21, 2019 in Desert Hot Springs, California at the age of 87.

[[Desert Hot Springs, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Riverside County, California

Desert Hot Springs, also known as DHS, is a city in Riverside County, California, United States. The city is located within the Coachella Valley region. The population was 25,938 at the 2010 census.

[[Lois Wille]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from stroke, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Chicago, Pulitzer Prize winners, Journalists from Chicago

Lois Jean Wille (née Kroeber; September 19, 1931 – July 23, 2019) was an American journalist, editor, and author. She won her first of two Pulitzer Prizes in 1963 for her reports about how the Chicago local government’s failure to have good services to low-income women. 

Her stories led to a number of important policy changes in women’s healthcare, public housing, and the juvenile court systems. She was born in Chicago.

In 1989, she received her second Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing.

Wille died on July 23, 2019 in Chicago from a stroke at the age of 

[[Republic of China (1912–1949)]]

CATEGORIES: Former polities of the Cold War, 20th century in China, Pages with unreviewed translations

The Republic of China (ROC) was a country that existed between 1912 and 1949. It is now the People's Republic of China. It was created in January 1912 after the Xinhai Revolution, which overthrew the Qing dynasty. The Republic's first president was Sun Yat-sen. Sun's party, the Kuomintang (KMT) won the parliamentary election in December 1912. 

But Sun soon gave the position to Yuan Shikai, the leader of the Beiyang Army. The Beiyang Army also controlled the Beiyang government (which controlled Mongolia). 

Between late 1915 and early 1916, Yuan Shikai called himself the Emperor of China. But people did not like it (National protection war). 

After Yuan died death in 1916, the Beiyang government was further weakened by a brief restoration of the Qing dynasty. Various groups in the Beiyang Army claimed independence and fought with each other during the Warlord Era.

In 1921, the KMT created a rival government in Canton, supported by the Communist Party of China (CPC). 

North China was overtaxed and had too many fighting warlords. So its economy died between 1927 and 1928. 

General Jiang Jieshi became the KMT leader after Sun's death. Jiang started the Northern Expedition in 1926 and overthrew the Beiyang government in 1928. In April 1927, Jiang created a nationalist government in Nanjing and massacred Communists in Shanghai. This forced the CPC into armed rebellion, starting the Chinese Civil War.

China experienced industrialization and modernization but suffered conflicts between the Nationalist government in Nanking, the CPC, warlords, and the Empire of Japan. 

Eventually the Chinese unified to fight against their common enemy: the Japanese. In 1937 the Imperial Japanese Army invaded China in 1937. The Second Sino-Japanese War began.

In 1945 Japan surrendered at the end of World War II.

In 1946, the Chinese Civil War between the KMT and CPC restarted. 

In 1949, the CPC defeated the KMT and started the People's Republic of China (PRC).

Jiang Jieshi and the KMT fled to Taiwan.

[[Varieties of Chinese]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations, Chinese language

Chinese is a branch of the Han-Tibetan language family. It has hundreds of local languages, many of which are not mutually understandable. There is more variation in the mountainous southeast. There are main seven groups: Mandarin, Wu, Min, Xiang, Gan, Hakka and Yue. But more research is being done.

Chinese varieties differ most in their phonology (sounds), but have similar vocabulary and syntax (grammar). Southern varieties tend to have fewer initial consonants but more often preserve the Middle Chinese final consonants. All have tones. Northern varieties have fewer tones. Many have tone sandhi (biandao). Zhejiang coast and eastern Guangdong has some of the most complex patterns.

Standard Chinese is based on the Beijing dialect. Its vocabulary is based on Mandarin group and grammar based on literature in the modern written vernacular. It is the official language of China, one of the four official languages of Singapore, and one of the six official languages of the United Nations.

[[Peter Hamm]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2019 deaths, German poets, German journalists, German critics, People from Munich

Peter Hamm (27 February 1937 – 22 July 2019) was a German poet, author, journalist, editor and literary critic. He wrote many documentaries about Ingeborg Bachmann and Peter Handke. He wrote for the German weekly newspapers Der Spiegel and Die Zeit. From 1964 to 2002, Hamm worked as contributing editor for culture for the broadcster Bayerischer Rundfunk. He was born in Munich.

Hamm was in a domestic partnership with actress Marianne Koch from 1970 until his death.

Hamm died on 22 July 2019 in Tutzing, Germany at the age of 82.

[[Marianne Koch]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, Living people, German movie actors, German television actors, German stage actors, German doctors, Television presenters, People from Munich

Marianne Koch (born 19 August 1931) is a German actress. She is best known for her roles in spaghetti westerns and adventure movies of the 1960s. She later worked as a television host and as a physician. She was in a relationship with Peter Hamm from 1970 until his death in 2019. Koch was born in Munich. 

Koch is known for her roles in  Night People alongside Gregory Peck and in Sergio Leone's 1964 movie A Fistful of Dollars alongside Clint Eastwood.

[[Francisco Grau]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2019 deaths, Spanish musicians

Francisco Grau Vegara (22 January 1947 – 21 July 2019) was a Spanish musician, composer and General in the Spanish Armed Forces. He was born in Bigastro, Alicante. In January 2008, Grau became the first General of Music in the Spanish Armed Forces, having been made a colonel some years previously. From 1988 – 2008, he was also director of the Musical Unit of the Spanish Royal Guard.

Grau died on 21 July 2019, aged 72.

[[Bologna massacre]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 in Europe, 1980s explosions in Europe, 1980s in Italy, 1980s murders in Europe, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1980s, August events, Bologna, Building bombings in Europe, Disasters in Italy, Mass murder in Europe, Mass murder in the 1980s, Terrorist incidents in Europe in the 1980s

The Bologna massacre was the bombing of Bologna Centrale railway station in Bologna, Emilia-Romagna, Italy by Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari. It happened on 2 August 1980. It killed 85 people and injured over 200 others. It was Italy's worst terrorist attack.

[[Art Neville]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2019 deaths, American singer-songwriters, American soul singers, American R&B singers, American funk musicians, American soul musicians, American R&B musicians, American pianists, Singers from New Orleans, Louisiana, Musicians from New Orleans, Louisiana, Writers from New Orleans, Louisiana

Arthur Lanon Neville (December 17, 1937 – July 22, 2019) was an American singer-songwriter and keyboardist. He was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. Neville was a part of The Neville Brothers. He was a founding member of The Meters. He also played with the spinoff group The Funky Meters.

Neville performed with singers Labelle (on "Lady Marmalade"), Paul McCartney, Lee Dorsey, Robert Palmer, Dr. John and Professor Longhair.

Neville died at the age of 81 on July 22, 2019 from a long-illness.

[[Hans Lagerqvist]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2019 deaths, Swedish Olympians, Competitors in athletics, Deaths from brain cancer

Hans Ture Lennart Lagerqvist (28 April 1940 – 22 July 2019) was a Swedish pole vaulter. He won a silver medal at the 1972 European Athletics Indoor Championships. Lagerqvist placed fourth at the 1971 European Championships and seventh at the 1971 European Athletics Indoor Championships and 1972 Olympics.

Lagerqvist was born in Gothenburg. He died on 22 July 2019 in Stockholm from brain cancer, aged 79.

[[Brigitte Kronauer]]

CATEGORIES: German writers, People from Essen, 1940 births, 2019 deaths

Brigitte Kronauer (29 December 1940 – 22 July 2019) was a German writer. She was born in Essen, Germany. In 2005, she was awarded the Georg Büchner Prize for her literary works.

Kronauer died on 22 July 2019 in Hamburg from a long-illness at the age of 78.

[[Maxim Dadashev]]

CATEGORIES: 1990 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths in sport, Russian sportspeople, Boxers

Maxim Kaibkhanovich Dadashev (September 30, 1990 – July 23, 2019) was a Russian boxer. He competed in the light welterweight (63.5 kg) division. Dadshev was a participant of the 2015 European Games. 

Dadashev was a Russian amateur champion. He was born in Leningrad, Soviet Union (now Saint Petersburg, Russia). Dadashev won the vacant NABF super lightweight title in June 2018.

On July 19, 2019, Dadashev lost to opponent Subriel Matías at MGM National Harbor in Oxon Hill, Maryland. When leaving the ring, Dadashev collapsed. He had brain surgery and placed in a medically induced coma. Dadashev died from his injuries on July 23 at a hospital in Cheverly, Maryland at the age of 28.

[[Oxon Hill, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Maryland, Census-designated places in Maryland

Oxon Hill is an unincorporated area and census-designated place (CDP) in southern Prince George's County, Maryland, United States. Oxon Hill is a suburb of Washington, D.C.. As of the 2010 census Oxon Hill had a population of 17,722.

[[Cheverly, Maryland]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Maryland

Cheverly is a town in Prince George's County, Maryland, United States. It is located near Washington, D.C.. The town was founded in 1918, and it was incorporated in 1931. Cheverly had 6,173 residents as of the 2010 Census.

[[Storm Area 51]]

CATEGORIES: June 2019 events, Internet memes

"Storm Area 51, They Can't Stop All of Us" is a Facebook event that was planned for September 20, 2019 at Area 51, a United States Air Force (USAF). The purpose of the event was to raid the site in search for aliens while they "Naruto run". The event was created by Matty Roberts as a satire event. Roberts posted the event on June 27, 2019. About 3,000,000 people responded "going" or "interested" on the event's page.

Air Force officials and Nevada state officials warned the group members not to raid the area or otherwise they would use executive force.

Copycat events such as plans to storm a secret vault of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, Loch Ness, and the Bermuda Triangle have also been created.

[[Arcadia Group]]

CATEGORIES: Companies of the United Kingdom

Arcadia Group plc  is a British multinational retailing company headquartered in London, United Kingdom. It owns the high street clothing retailers Burton, Dorothy Perkins, Evans, Miss Selfridge, Topman, Topshop, Wallis and the out of town chain Outfit, which sells lines from the other group chains. The group has more than 2,500 outlets in the UK, concessions in UK department stores such as Debenhams, Selfridges, as well as several hundred franchises in other countries.

The company is majority owned by Taveta Investments, itself owned by Tina Green, the wife of Sir Philip Green, who is himself the chairman of the Arcadia Group. Philip Green has been involved in a number of controversies during his career, including the payment of generous dividends to Richard Caring, Tom Hunter, and Philip Green's family prior to the demise of BHS.

In April 2019, it was reported that the Arcadia group, controlled by Philip Green's family, had recorded a £300m deficit into its pension fund, while the Green family had cashed out £1.2bn in dividends from Arcadia in 2005.

British MP Frank Field, who previously investigated the BHS pension deficit, has publicly criticised Philip Green for paying huge dividends to his family and friend Richard Caring "when things are going well", and making his employees pay "when things are not going well".

[[SABMiller]]

CATEGORIES: 1895 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2010s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 2016 disestablishments in Europe, Defunct companies of the United Kingdom, Beer, London

SABMiller plc was a multinational brewing and beverage company headquartered in London, England. It is the world's second-largest brewer measured by revenues (after the Belgian-Brazilian-American Anheuser-Busch InBev) and is also a major bottler of Coca-Cola. Its brands include Fosters, Grolsch, Miller, Peroni and Pilsner Urquell. It has operations in 80 countries world-wide and in 2009 sold around 21 billion litres of beverages.

SABMiller's origins date back to the foundation of South African Breweries in 1895 as to serve a growing market of miners and prospectors in and around Johannesburg. Two years later, it became the first industrial company to list on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. From the early 1990s onwards, the company increasingly expanded internationally, making several acquisitions in both emerging and developed markets. In 1999, it formed a new UK-based holding company, SAB plc, and moved its primary listing to London. In May 2002, SAB plc acquired Miller Brewing, forming SABMiller plc.

SABMiller has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index. It has a market capitalisation of approximately £42 billion as of 24 October 2015, the 6th-largest of any company with a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange. It has a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.

In October 2015, Anheuser-Busch InBev  announced plans to acquire SABMiller for £69 billion ($104 billion).

[[Home Retail Group]]

CATEGORIES: 2006 establishments in the United Kingdom, 2010s disestablishments in the United Kingdom, 2016 disestablishments in Europe, Companies of the United Kingdom, Retail markets, Companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, Milton Keynes

Home Retail Group plc is one of the UK's leading home and general merchandise retailers. It is the parent company of Argos and Habitat. It is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.

Home Retail Group owns a number of well-known brands, including Alba, Bush, Chad Valley, Challenger, Cherokee, Cooksworks, Habitat, Heart of House,  Hygena, Schreiber, and Sovereign.

[[Veles (god)]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic gods and goddesses

Veles is a Slavic god of wealth, undergrounds and trade. It is very important in Pomeranian Slavs religion.

[[Marzanna]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic gods and goddesses

Marzanna (in Polish), Marena (in Russian), Morana (in Czech, Bulgarian, Slovene, and Serbo-Croatian),  or Morena or Kyselica (in Slovak), Morena (in Macedonian), Maslenitsa (in Russia) and also Mara (in Belarusian and Ukrainian), Maržena, Moréna, Mora or Marmora, Morė (in Lithuanian) is the goddess of death and winter in Slavic paganism. In many Slavic countries, it is very popular to burn a doll, that represents Marzanna, when it's beginning of spring.

[[Gerovit]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic gods and goddesses

Gerovit is a god of war in Slavic beliefs. Almost everything we know about him, we know thanks to German bishops, who visited Slavic countries.

[[Zhangzhung]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations, History of China, History of India, Former countries in Asia

[[Video assistant referee]]

CATEGORIES: 2018, 2018 FIFA World Cup, Football (soccer) terminology, Referees

Video assistant referee (VAR) is a system that helps referees to decide better about players fouls, if a goal was valid, red card decisions, etc. in soccer matches.  When the referee is going to review a play on the field at the VAR box, they outline a square with their hands, as if showing the outline of a TV screen. It was used for the first time in the 2016 FIFA Club World Cup.  It was used for the first time for international matches in the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup.  The first time VAR was used in the FIFA World Cup was in the 2018 World Cup.

In March 2018, the VAR was permanentely written into the Laws of the Game by the International Football Association Board (IFAB).

There are 3 categories of decisions that can be reviewed:

The referee can review the play on the field by going to the VAR box, listen to the VAR's recommendation, or completely ignore the VAR advice. The referee can only review the play on the field with recommendation of the VAR to prevent the referee from relying on it too much.

[[Nir, Iran]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Iran

Nir is a city in iran that located in the north west of iran in the Ardabil province&it is a part of the nir county.It is famous for tourism area calls bolaghlar.

[[Slavic Native Faith]]

CATEGORIES: Paganism, Religion, Slavic mythology

Slavic Naitive Faith is modern pagan religion, which is related to Slavic paganism. It is sometimes called Rodnovery.

[[Tōyō Bunko]]

CATEGORIES: Libraries in Asia, Buildings and structures in Tokyo

The Tōyō Bunko is Japan's largest Asian studies library. It is one of the world's five largest libraries. It is located in Tokyo. 

It contains around 950,000 documents, written in Asian, Western and Japanese languages.

It was started by Mitsubishi Motors and opened in 1924.

[[Toyo University]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations, 1880s establishments in Japan, 1887 establishments, Colleges and universities in Tokyo

[[Oyanagi Shigeta]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 deaths, 1870 births

Oyanagi Shigeta (小柳司気太, 1870 December 24 - 1940 July 18 ) is a Japanese scholar of Chinese literature and Taoism. He is from Niigata Prefecture and graduated from Tokyo Imperial University. His mom's last name is Kumakura (熊倉). 

[[Epigraphy]]

CATEGORIES: CS1 German-language sources (de), CS1 Spanish-language sources (es), CS1 Italian-language sources (it), Writing media, Writing

Epigraphy is the study of writings, inscriptions (epigraphs) on things like rocks, clay, stone, paper, etc. It is used to study writing; often for learning about languages of the past.

[[Mokosh]]

CATEGORIES: Slavic gods and goddesses

Mokosh (Мóкошь) is a Slavic goddess of nature.

[[Luo Zhenyu]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 deaths, 1866 births, Pages with unreviewed translations

Luo Zhenyu (August 8, 1866 – May 14, 1940), courtesy name Shuyun (叔蘊), was a Chinese classical scholar, philologist, epigrapher, antiquarian. He supported the Qing dynasty, even after it fell.

[[Silesian language]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of Europe, Languages with ISO 639-2 code, Poland, Slavic languages

Silesian or Upper Silesian (Silesian: ślōnskŏ gŏdka / ślůnsko godka ˈɕlonskɔ ˈɡɔtka; slezština; gwara śląska, język śląski, etnolekt śląski; Schlonsakisch, Wasserpolnisch (pej.)) from the West Slavic language family. Some linguists say, that it is a dialect of Polish, because of big similarities between these languages. It's mostly spoken in Poland, but also in the Czech Republic and Germany.

[[Cen Chunxuan]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 deaths, 1861 births, Chinese politicians

Cen Chunxuan (1861 – 27 April 1933) was a Zhuang Chinese politician who lived in the late Qing dynasty and Republic of China. He wanted the Qing to become a monarchy based on a constitution (written set of laws). Empress Dowager Cixi supported him. He was a governor of Guangdong and became a warlord during the ROC but then Sun Yat-sen's government replaced his.

[[List of prime ministers of Queen Victoria]]

CATEGORIES: Commonwealth realms

[[Suzhou High School]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations, Schools, China

Suzhou High School of Jiangsu Province (江蘇省蘇州中學), is a Chinese public high school. It has over 1000 years of history. 

Many famous people graduated from there. It is in Suzhou, Jiangsu. In 1035, the Northern Song politician Fan Zhongyan founded it (苏州府学).

[[Taibei Imperial University]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Taipei, Colleges and universities in Asia, 1928 establishments

Taibei Imperial University was created in March 16, 1928. At the time Japan ( the Empire of Japan ) controlled Taiwan. It was renamed National Taiwan University (NTU). After Japan lost the war, the Republic of China took over and made part of it the National Chung Hsing University today.

[[Fujita Toyohachi]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 deaths, 1869 births, People from Tokushima Prefecture, Waseda University faculty

Fujita Toyohachi (Kanji: 藤田豊八；Hiragana: ふじたとよはち) is a Japanese writer and professor in East Asian History. He lived from 1869 October 19 to 1929 July 15. He is from Tokushima Prefecture. His (Chinese) pen name name was Jianfeng / Kenfou (劍峰). 

He founded a school in Jiangsu, China. He was a teacher at Beijing University (the Imperial University, 京師大學堂), author of Secondary Education East Asian history《中等教育東洋史》and Research on the History of East-West Interactions《東西交涉史之研究（東西交渉史の研究）》。 

He collected over 1700 Chinese books. After he died, those were sent to the Toyo Bunko (東洋文庫) and put into a section called Fujita's library「藤田文庫」。 

[[Western Regions]]

CATEGORIES: Asia, Pages with unreviewed translations

The Western Regions or Xiyu (Xīyù) refers to Central Asia, specifically west of the Yumen pass. It was used in Chinese between the 3rd century BC to the 8th century AD. 

It sometimes refers to Xinjiang or even northern parts of the Indian subcontinent (as in the novel Journey to the West).

Because it is located on the Silk Road, the xiyu have been important since at least the 3rd century BC.

[[Weilüe]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations, Books, 3rd century

The Weilüe (A Brief History of Wei) was written by Yu Huan between 239 and 265. Yu Huan was a politician of Cao Wei (220–265) during the Three Kingdoms period (220–280). Yu Huan is considered good among Chinese scholars.

[[Cologny]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Geneva

Cologny is a municipality in the canton of Geneva, Switzerland.

[[Emperor Ming of Han]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations, Emperors and Empresses of China, 20s births, 70s deaths

Emperor Ming of Han (15 June 28 AD – 5 September 75 AD) was the second emperor of China's Eastern Han Dynasty.

He was born Liu Yang.

[[Kalman filter]]

CATEGORIES: Algorithms

The Kalman filter is an algorithm (a step-by-step process) that helps people remove errors from numbers. It is named for Rudolf E. Kálmán, a mathematician who helped to make it.

Science can use the Kalman filter in many ways. One important use is steering airplanes and space ships. People also use the Kalman filter to make a model of how humans use nerves and muscles to move their bodies.

The Kalman filter has two steps. The first step is predicting (trying to say what you think will happen). The Kalman filter makes a first guess about what we think is true (an estimate) and how certain we are that it is true (uncertainty). Next, the Kalman filter makes a new guess by using a weighted average. More certain numbers are more important in this weighted average. After doing these two steps, we use the new guess to start these steps again.

[[An Shigao]]

CATEGORIES: Buddhists, Translators, Monks, 140s births, 180s deaths

An Shigao (Ān Shìgāo) lived from 148-180 CE. He was a Buddhist. And he helped translate Indian Buddhist texts into Chinese. According to legend, he was a prince of Parthia (modern Iran). He gave up being a prince to become a Buddhist missionary monk in China.

[[Thônex]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Geneva, Cities in Switzerland

Thônex is a municipality of the canton of Geneva, Switzerland. It is in the east of the canton and shares a border with the French town of Ambilly.

[[American Indian Wars]]

CATEGORIES: Wars

The American Indian Wars (also known as the Indian Wars or the First Nations Wars; Guerres des Premières Nations) is the name for the various battles that were fought by European, American, and Canadian governments and colonists against various American Indian and First Nation tribes. These conflicts happened in North America from the time of the earliest colonial settlements in the 17th century until the 1920s. The various Indian Wars resulted from a wide variety of factors, including cultural differences, land disputes, and crimes committed by both sides. The European powers and their colonies also enlisted Indian tribes to help them do war against each other's colonial settlements.

After the American Revolution, many conflicts were local to specific states or regions. The conflicts were usually about disputes over land use; some had cycles of violent actions. The British Royal Proclamation of 1763, included in the Constitution of Canada, banned white settlers from taking the lands of native peoples in Canada without signing a treaty with them. It is still law in Canada today, and 11 Numbered Treaties, limited the number of conflicts.

As white settlers went west across America after 1780, the size, length of time, and intensity of conflicts increased between settlers and various Indians. The biggest came in the War of 1812, which resulted in the defeat of major Indian coalitions in the Midwest and the South. Conflict with settlers happened less, and treaties became more common. The Indian Removal Act of 1830 allowed the US government to remove natives from east of the Mississippi River to the west. The west was what the government believed to be empty American frontier. (Many tribes had a lot of territory in this area, however.) The federal US policy of removal was eventually changed in the West. It was changed to relocating Indian tribes to specially designated and federally protected reservations.

[[Yao Qian Shu]]

CATEGORIES: Luck

The money tree (Chinese: 搖錢樹; yao qian shu; literally: shake money tree) is a holy tree that can give you money if you shake it.

It came from the Han Dynasty. Bronze qianshu are appear a lot in Sichuan graves.

[[Dry county]]

CATEGORIES: Local government in the United States

A dry county is a county in the United States whose government does not allow the sale of any kind of alcoholic beverages. Some don't allow off-premises sales, some don't allow on-premises sale, and some don't allow both. Many dry counties exist in the United States. Most of them in the South. Some smaller jurisdictions also exist, such as cities, towns, and townships, which don't allow alcohol to be sold. These are known as dry cities, dry towns, or dry townships. Dry jurisdictions can be contrasted with "wet" (minimal alcohol prohibitions) and "moist" (fewer prohibitions than "dry" but more than "wet").

[[Parliament of Finland]]

CATEGORIES: Finland

The Parliament of Finland (Suomen eduskunta, Finlands riksdag) is the unicameral supreme legislature of Finland. It was founded on 9 May 1906. It works with the Constitution of Finland. The power is vested in the Parliament. The Parliament is made up of 200 members, 199 of whom are elected every four years. In addition, there is one member from Åland.

Legislation may start by either the Government or one of the members of Parliament.

[[Kucha]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations, History of China

Kucha (كۇچار, 龜茲) was an ancient Buddhist kingdom in Xinjiang (East Turkestan). 

It was on the Silk Road.

[[Jeremy Kemp]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, Actors from Derbyshire

Jeremy Kemp (3 January 1935 – 19 July 2019) was an English actor. He was known for his roles in the miniseries The Winds of War, the movie The Blue Max and the TV series Z-Cars.

[[Michael English (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Former Labour MPs (UK), UK MPs 1964–1966, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, Politicians from Nottinghamshire, People from Nottingham, People from Liverpool

Michael English (24 December 1930 – 13 July 2019) was a British Labour Party politician. He was a Member of Parliament for the British Parliament for Nottingham West from 1964 to 1983. 

English died on 13 July 2019 at the age of 88.

[[Nicodemus, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Kansas, Graham County, Kansas

Nicodemus is an unincorporated community in Graham County, Kansas, United States.  The community was created in 1877. it is named after the Biblical figure Nicodemus.

The Nicodemus National Historic Site is in Nicodemus. The place commemorates the only remaining western town created by African Americans during the Reconstruction Period. During the last weekend of July, former residents and their descendants return for celebrations and parades.

In 1976, Nicodemus was named a National Historic Landmark. As of 2018, its First Baptist Church, African Methodist Episcopal Church, and other historic buildings are in bad condition that they cannot be opened to the public.

[[Lengger]]

CATEGORIES: Dances, Java

Lengger is a traditional dance from the Banyumasan area of the central Java, Indonesia.

[[Ragged school]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century, Education in England

Ragged schools were free schools for poor children’s education in nineteenth-century Britain. The London Ragged Schools Union was established in April 1844. They gave free education, food, clothes and other services. The classes were sometimes held in stables, lofts and railway arches. Most teachers were volunteers but there were some who were paid. About 300,000 children went to London ragged schools between 1844 and 1881.

[[Fedio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Asia, Syria

Fedio (also spelled Fedyo; فديو) is a Syrian village located in Latakia Governorate. Fedio had a population of 4,065 in the 2004 census.  

[[Pinyin for other languages]]

CATEGORIES: Romanization

The former State Administration of Surveying and Mapping, Geographical Names Committee and former Script Reform Committee created these pinyin methods. 

These have been used since 1978.

[[Latakia Governorate]]

CATEGORIES: Governorates of Syria

Latakia Governorate (مُحافظة اللاذقية / ALA-LC: Muḥāfaẓat al-Lādhiqīyah) is one of the fourteen governorates (provinces) of Syria. It is in western Syria, bordering Turkey. Its reported area varies in different sources from 2,297 km² to 2,437 km². The governorate population was 991,000 (2010 estimate). Members of the Alawite sect are the majority in the governorate, although Armenians, Turkmen, and Sunni Kurds form the majorities in the Kessab, Jabal Turkman, and Jabal al-Akrad regions respectively. The capital of Latakia had, by 2010 estimates, 400,000 inhabitants, 50% of whom were Alawites, 30% were Sunni, and 20% Christian.

[[Wanda Vázquez Garced]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 1960 births, Governors of Puerto Rico, American lawyers, US Republican Party politicians, People from San Juan, Puerto Rico

Wanda Vázquez Garced is a Puerto Rican lawyer and politician. She was the 14th governor of Puerto Rico from August 7, 2019 to January 2, 2021. She also was Secretary of Justice from 2017 to 2019.

[[Suffern, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Suffern is a village that was created in 1796 in the town of Ramapo, Rockland County, New York, United States. As of the 2010 census, Suffern's population was 10,723.

[[Youssef Chahed]]

CATEGORIES: 1975 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Tunisia

Youssef Chahed (Arabic: يوسف الشاهد; born 18 September 1975) is a Tunisian politician. He was the Head of Government of Tunisia from 2016 to 2020. He was Secretary of State for Fishing from 2015 to 2016 and Minister of Local Affairs in 2016. He was a member of the Nidaa Tounes party until he formed Long Live Tunisia.

A failed presidential candidate, Chahed came in fifth place in the 2019 election.

[[Napoleon, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Ohio, Cities in Ohio

Napoleon is a city in and the county seat of Henry County, Ohio, United States. It is located near the Maumee River. It is 44 miles southwest of Toledo. As of the 2010 census, the city had a total population of 8,749.

[[Bloomfield, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Connecticut

Bloomfield is a town in Hartford County, Connecticut, United States.  The population was 20,486 at the 2010 census.

[[Eliel Saarinen]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 births, 1950 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Finnish people, Architects from Chicago, People from Michigan

Gottlieb Eliel Saarinen (ˈeliel ˈsɑːrinen; August 20, 1873 – July 1, 1950) was a Finnish-American architect known for his work with art nouveau buildings in the early years of the 20th century.

[[Maumee River]]

CATEGORIES: Ohio, Rivers of Indiana

The Maumee River (pronounced m) (Shawnee: Hotaawathiipi; Miami-Illinois: Taawaawa siipiiwi) is a river running from northeastern Indiana into northwestern Ohio and Lake Erie in the United States. The city of Toledo is located at the mouth of the Maumee. 

It is the largest watershed of any of the rivers feeding the Great Lakes, and supplies five percent of Lake Erie’s water.

[[Grand Rapids, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in Ohio

Grand Rapids is a village in Grand Rapids Township, Wood County, Ohio, United States. It is located along the Maumee River. The population was 965 at the 2010 census.

[[Henry County, Ohio]]

CATEGORIES: 1830s establishments in Ohio, 1834 establishments in the United States, Ohio counties

Henry County is a county in the U.S. state of Ohio. As of the 2010 census, the population was 28,215. Its county seat is Napoleon. The county was created in 1820. It is named for Patrick Henry.

[[Blue Hills, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Connecticut

Blue Hills is a community in Hartford County, Connecticut. It is made up by the northwest corner of the city of Hartford and the southeast corner of the town of Bloomfield. 

The Bloomfield portion is listed by the U.S. Census Bureau as a census-designated place (CDP), with a population of 2,901 at the 2010 census.

[[Dikembe Mutombo]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Naturalized citizens of the United States, American philanthropists, People from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denver Nuggets players, Atlanta Hawks players, Philadelphia 76ers players, New Jersey Nets players, New York Knicks players, Houston Rockets players, National Basketball Association players with retired numbers

Dikembe Mutombo Mpolondo Mukamba Jean-Jacques Wamutombo (born June 25, 1966) is a Congolese-American retired professional basketball player and humanitarian. Mutombo played 18 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played for the Denver Nuggets, Atlanta Hawks, Philadelphia 76ers, New Jersey Nets, New York Knicks and the Houston Rockets.

[[Bloomberg News]]

CATEGORIES: News, Michael Bloomberg

Bloomberg News (originally Bloomberg Business News) is an international news agency headquartered in New York. It creates news that is disseminated through Bloomberg Terminals, Bloomberg Television, Bloomberg Radio, Bloomberg Businessweek, Bloomberg Markets, Bloomberg.com and Bloomberg's mobile platforms. Since 2015, John Micklethwait has been the editor-in-chief.

[[Revenge of the Nerds]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 movies, 1980s sex comedy movies, 1980s teen comedy movies, 20th Century Fox movies, American movies, American sex comedy movies, American teen comedy movies, English-language movies, Movies about bullying

Revenge of the Nerds is a 1984 comedy film about a group of brainy misfits who get into university in computer science and get revenge against the people by whom they are constantly bullied. An episode of The Simpsons called "Revenge is a dish best served three times over" included a parody of Revenge of the Nerds called "the Revenge of the Geeks" of which Milhouse Van Houten is the protagonist.

[[Vaibhav Chhaya]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Indian writers, Maharashtra, Poets, Living people, Ambedkarites

Vaibhav Chhaya is an Indian Marathi language poet, writer and Ambedkarite activist. He is based in Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.

[[If I Ran the Zoo]]

CATEGORIES: Books by Dr. Seuss

If I Ran the Zoo is a children's book published in 1950 and written by Dr. Seuss. It is about a child who goes to the zoo gets bored and starts describing all the fictional animals he would put in the zoo if he ran the Zoo.

[[Céligny]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Geneva

Céligny is a municipality of the canton of Geneva in Switzerland. It has two small exclaves of the canton of Geneva mostly surrounded by the Canton of Vaud, near Crans-près-Céligny.

[[Nemesis]]

CATEGORIES: Greek gods and goddesses

In ancient Greek religion, Nemesis (Νέμεσις),  is the goddess who takes vengence against those who show hubris (arrogance before the gods). 

Divine retribution is a major theme in the Hellenic world view. It is the unifying theme of the tragedies of Sophocles and many other literary works.

She carried a measuring rod (a tally stick), a bridle, scales, a sword, and a scourge (whip), and she rides in a chariot drawn by griffins.

Nemesis often is seen with another goddess named Aidos. Aidos is the goddess of shame. She is similar to Nemesis.

The Ancient Greek made different meanings for what they called "justice":

In works of fiction the hero's nemesis is usually the villain and the hardest antagonist for the hero to defeat.

[[Chancy]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Geneva

Chancy is a municipality of the canton of Geneva in Switzerland.

[[Battle of Black Jack]]

CATEGORIES: Bleeding Kansas

The Battle of Black Jack happened on June 2, 1856, when anti-slavery people, led by abolitionist John Brown, attacked the camp of Henry C. Pate near Baldwin City, Kansas. The battle is one event of "Bleeding Kansas," and it was part of the lead up to the American Civil War of 1861 to 1865.

In 2012 the National Park Service designated the battlefield a National Historic Landmark.

[[Viry, Haute-Savoie]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haute-Savoie

Viry is a commune. It is in the Haute-Savoie department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in southeastern France.

[[Ungersheim]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Ungersheim is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Urbès]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Urbès is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Vieux-Ferrette]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Vieux-Ferrette is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Vieux-Thann]]

CATEGORIES: Communes in Haut-Rhin

Vieux-Thann is a commune. It is found in the Haut-Rhin department of eastern France.

[[Lawrence County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1810s establishments in Mississippi Territory, 1814 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Lawrence County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 12,929 people lived there. Its county seat is Monticello.

[[Black Jack, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Douglas County, Kansas

Black Jack is an unincorporated community in Douglas County, in the U.S. state of Kansas.

[[Brown County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory, Brown County, Kansas

Brown County (county code BR) is a county in the northeast part of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 9,984 people lived there. Its county seat is Hiawatha. Hiawatha is the second-biggest city in Brown County. Brown County is where the Kickapoo Indian Reservation of Kansas is. It also has most of the Sac and Fox Reservation and most of the Iowa Reservation of Kansas and Nebraska.

[[Anderson County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Anderson County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Anderson County (county code AN) is a county in East Central Kansas, in the Central United States. In 2010, 8,102 lived there. Its county seat  is Garnett. Garnett is also the biggest city in Anderson County.

[[Mohamed Ennaceur]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Presidents of Tunisia, Speakers of the Assembly of the Representatives of the People

Mohamed Ennaceur (محمد الناصر; born 21 March 1934) is a Tunisian politician. He was the acting President of Tunisia from 25 July 2019 after the death of President Beji Caid Essebsi until 23 October 2019. 

From 2014 until 2021, he was the Speaker of the Assembly of the Representatives of the People and leader of the governing Nidaa Tounes party. He was Minister of Social Affairs in the 1970s and 1980s under President Habib Bourguiba, and again in 2011 in the transitional Ghannouchi and Essebsi governments.

[[Mohamed Ghannouchi]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, Living people, Presidents of Tunisia, Prime Ministers of Tunisia

Mohamed Ghannouchi (محمد الغنوشي Muhammad Al-Ghannushi; born 18 August 1941) is a Tunisian politician. He was Prime Minister of Tunisia from 1999 to 2011. Ghannouchi was an important political figure in the Tunisian government under President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.

Ghannouchi resigned as Prime Minister on 27 February 2011 after multiple protests during the Tunisian Revolution called for him and President Ben Ali to resign.

[[Progressive Party (United States, 1912)]]

CATEGORIES: Political parties in the United States

The Progressive Party was a third party in the United States. It was created in 1912 by former President  Theodore Roosevelt  after he lost the presidential nomination of the Republican Party to incumbent President William Howard Taft. The new party was known for taking advanced positions on progressive and populist reforms. It also attracted famous national reformers. After the party's defeat in  1912 , it went into rapid decline in elections until 1918, disappearing by 1920. The Progressive Party was often called the "Bull Moose Party" since Roosevelt often said that he felt "strong as a bull moose".

[[Khakassia]]

CATEGORIES: Central Asia, Siberia, Republics of Russia, Coordinates on Wikidata, Federal subjects of Russia

Khakassia (Хака́сия; Khakas: Хака́сия) is a federal subject (state) of Russia. Its capital is Abakan. As of 2020 the population was 534,186.

[[My Neighbors the Yamadas]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s comedy movies, 1999 movies, Animated movies, Fictional families, Japanese movies, Japanese-language movies, Movies about dysfunctional families, Movies based on comics, Studio Ghibli

My Neighbors the Yamadas is a 1999 Japanese animated comedy film written and directed by Isao Takahata and produced by Studio Ghibli

[[Terry Fallis]]

CATEGORIES: Canadian novelists, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Terry Fallis is a Canadian writer and humourist. Fallis was trained as an engineer at McMaster University in Ontario. Fallis was involved in student politics and became president of the student union.  Fallis joined the Liberal Party of Canada and worked for the campaigns of Jean Chrétien, Robert Nixon and Micheal Ignatieff.  Fallis wrote and later self-published a novel called the "Best Laid Plans" about a man who wants to quit his work in politics by managing the campaign of someone he believes has absolutely no chance of winning so that no one will take him seriously enough ever to hire him again and then shockingly ends up having his political candidate win.  Fallis won the Stephen Leacock Award  for Canadian humour.  Fallis wrote a sequel to "The Best Laid Plans" called "The High Road" about an idealistic re-election campaign.  Fallis wrote "Up and Down" about a 71 year old woman from British Columbia who becomes an astronaut in NASA.  Fallis later met a man by the name of Brian Mulroney who is not related to the Prime Minister Brian Mulroney.  Fallis then wrote a novel called "No Relation" about a man who wants to become a writer but can't because his name happens to be Earnest Hemingway,even though he is not related to Ernest Hemingway and starts a support group for people who have famous names while trying to resist his father's effort to make him take over his father's underwear company.  Fallis wrote the novel "Poles Apart" about a man who starts a popular feminist website using the pseudonym Eve and who everyone assumes is a woman. Fallis also wrote a novel called "One Brother Shy"

[[Stephen Leacock]]

CATEGORIES: 1869 births, 1944 deaths, Canadian comedians, Canadian novelists, Canadian writers, Cancer deaths in Canada, Deaths from oral cancer, People from Hampshire, Canadian political scientists, University of Chicago alumni

Stephen Leacock was a Canadian humourist who was born in England in 1869.  Leacock moved to Canada when he was six years old and went to Upper Canada College in Toronto.  

[[Zhangxun Restoration]]

CATEGORIES: Pages with unreviewed translations

The Zhangxun Restoration was an attempt to restore the Qing Dynasty in July 1917. 

In 1911 after the Xinhai Revolution, the Qing Dynasty died. It was the last monarchy of China after thousands of years. The last emperor of the Qing was Puyi. General Zhang Xun tried to put Puyi back on the throne in 1917. Zhang got an army and entered Beijing.

But it lasted only a few days, from July 1 to July 12. Troops from the Republic of China (1912–1949) quickly ended it.

[[Honing oil]]

CATEGORIES: Oils

Honing oil is a liquid solution that aids in sharpening different machinery. One of the most common type of honing oil is the one used with sharpening stones. Not only they protect the sharpening stone but they also keep the stone pores from clogging.

There are different types of honing oil and substitutes. It has been noticed that some people use water instead of honing oil to make the sharpening process smooth. Although, water is no substitute of honing oil according to many chefs and experts.

The thickness of honing oil matters a lot. For example, motor oil, which is another type of honing oil, cannot be used with sharpening stones since it is too thick and instead of protecting the sharpening stone pores, it will clog them. 

[[Robert Plutchik]]

CATEGORIES: American psychologists, 1927 births, 2006 deaths

Robert Plutchik (21 October 1927 – 29 April 2006) was an emeritus professor at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. He was also a professor at the University of South Florida. 

Plutchik received his Ph.D. from Columbia University. He was a psychologist. He authored or coauthored more than 260 articles, 45 chapters and eight books and edited seven books. His research interests included the study of emotions, the study of suicide and violence, and the study of the psychotherapy process.

[[Liane Russell]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2019 deaths, Naturalized citizens of the United States, Austrian scientists, American geneticists, American activists, American environmentalists, Female scientists, Scientists from Vienna, Scientists from Tennessee, Scientists from Chicago

Liane Brauch "Lee" Russell (August 27, 1923 – July 20, 2019) was an Austrian-born American geneticist and conservationist. She was known for her works on mammalian genetics. Her works helped create an understanding of the chromosomic basis for sex determination in mammals. She was also known for raising awareness for the harmful affects of radiation, drugs, fuels and waste on mice and pregnant women. 

Russell was born in Vienna, Austria. She studied at the University of Chicago. Russell died at her home in Oak Ridge, Tennessee on July 20, 2019 at the age of 95.

[[Ruth Gotlieb]]

CATEGORIES: 1920s births, 2019 deaths, British politicians, New Zealand politicians, People from Wellington, People from Cork (city)

Ruth Gotlieb NZL (née Wolman, 96 – 23 July 2019) was a British-New Zealand politician. She was born in England, but was raised in Cork, Ireland. Her career was based in Wellington, New Zealand. Gotlieb was a member of the Wellington City Council from 1983 to 2001.

Gotlieb died on 23 July 2019 in Wellington at the age of 96.

[[Barney Smith (museum curator)]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2019 deaths, American artists, People from San Antonio, Texas

Barney Smith (May 25, 1921 – July 23, 2019) was an American plumber, artist and museum curator. He was best known for his Toilet Seat Art Museum in San Antonio, Texas, which he operated out of his garage. It had 1,000 pieces of art and drew visitors from around the globe.

Smith died on July 23, 2019 in San Antonio at the age of 98.

[[Ferdinand von Bismarck]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, German businesspeople, German lawyers, Princes and princesses, Businesspeople from London

Ferdinand Herbord Ivar, Prince of Bismarck (German: Ferdinand Herbord Ivar Fürst von Bismarck; November 22, 1930 – July 23, 2019) was a German businessman and lawyer. He was the Prince of Bismarck from 1975 to 2019. He was replaced by his eldest son Carl-Eduard von Bismarck. He was born in London. He worked as an attorney in Hamburg.

Bismarck died on 23 July 2019 in Reinbek, Germany at the age of 88.

[[Cathy Inglese]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2019 deaths, Accidental deaths from falls in the United States, Sportspeople from Connecticut

Catherine Mary Inglese (December 16, 1958 – July 24, 2019) was an American college basketball coach. She was the head coach for women's basketball programs for a total of 27 years, at the University of Vermont, Boston College, and the University of Rhode Island from 1980 to 2007. Inglese was born in Wallingford, Connecticut.

Inglese had a traumatic brain injury after falling in a stairwell on July 17, 2019. She had surgery at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, New York. Inglese died from her injuries on July 24, 2019, aged 60.  

[[Wallingford, Connecticut]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Connecticut

Wallingford is a town in New Haven County, Connecticut, United States. The population was 45,135 at the 2010 census. The community was named after Wallingford, in England.

[[Yankee Candle]]

CATEGORIES: 1960s establishments in Massachusetts, 1969 establishments in the United States, Companies based in Massachusetts

The Yankee Candle Company (referred to simply as Yankee Candle) is an American manufacturer and retailer of scented candles, candleholders, accessories, and dinnerware. It is the largest candle manufacturer in the United States. The company is headquartered in South Deerfield, Massachusetts.

The Jarden Corporation agreed to buy candle maker Yankee Candle for $1.75 billion in the fall of 2013. In 2015, Newell Rubbermaid announced that it would acquire Jarden for over $15 billion of cash and stock.

[[South Deerfield, Massachusetts]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Massachusetts

South Deerfield is a census-designated place (CDP) in Deerfield, Franklin County, Massachusetts, United States.  It is home to the well-known Yankee Candle Company. At the 2010 census, the population of South Deerfield was 1,880.

[[Jesper Juul]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Danish scientists, Danish writers

Jesper Juul (18 April 1948 – 25 July 2019) was a Danish family therapist and author. He wrote many books on parenting to a general audience. In his book Your Competent Child (1995, in English 2001) he argues that families today have destructive values. The book Has so far (2007) been translated into 13 languages. He was born in Vordingborg, Denmark.

Juul died of pneumonia in Copenhagen on 25 July 2019 at the age of 71.

[[Pierre Péan]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2019 deaths, French journalists, French historians

Pierre Péan (5 March 1938 – 25 July 2019) was a French investigative journalist and author. He wrote many books about political scandals in France. He was born in Maine-et-Loire, France. In 1994, he published Une jeunesse française: François Mitterrand (A French Youth: François Mitterrand). The book is a biography covering the life of François Mitterrand from 1934 to 1947. He also wrote books on Charles de Gaulle.

Péan died on 25 July 2019 at the age of 81.

[[Rose Franco]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, American military people, Puerto Rican people

Rose Franco (born January 22, 1934) is a retired United States Marine Corps Warrant Officer. She was born in Guánica, Puerto Rico. She is the first Hispanic woman to become a chief warrant officer in the U.S. Marine Corps.

In 1965, Franco was named Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Navy, Paul Nitze by the administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson. She was promoted to the rank of Warrant Officer by the recommendation of the Secretary of the Navy.

[[Gary Ray Bowles]]

CATEGORIES: 1962 births, 2019 deaths, Executed American serial killers, People executed by lethal injection, American sex offenders, People from Virginia, American people convicted of assault

Gary Ray Bowles (January 25, 1962 – August 22, 2019) was an American serial killer. He was sentenced to death for the murder of six men in 1994. He was born in Clifton Forge, Virginia. He was convicted of sexual assault, armed robbery and murder.

Bowles was executed by lethal injection on August 22, 2019 at Florida State Prison in Bradford County, aged 57.

[[Graham Freudenberg]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2019 deaths, Political writers, Writers from Queensland, People from Brisbane

Norman Graham Freudenberg AM (ˈ 12 May 1934 – 26 July 2019) was an Australian author and political speechwriter. He worked with the Australian Labor Party for over forty years. He was born in Brisbane, Queensland. 

Freudenberg wrote over a thousand speeches for several leaders of the Australian Labor Party at both the New South Wales state and federal level. Senior Labor Party leaders for whom he prepared speeches included Arthur Calwell, Gough Whitlam, Neville Wran, Bob Hawke, Barrie Unsworth, Bob Carr and Simon Crean.

On 26 July 2019, it was announced that Freudenberg had died after a long-illness, aged 85.

[[725 West Randolph]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Chicago, Illinois

725 W. Randolph Street is  proposed skyscraper in Chicago. It is designed by architectural firm Roger Ferris + Partners with architect of record Perkins Eastman . 

As proposed, the building will have residences and an Equinox-brand hotel. It is one of two buildings under development in the West Loop.  The Chicago Plan Commission approved the building in 2018, and related plans to break ground in 2019.

[[One Chicago Square]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Chicago, Illinois

One Chicago (formerly One Chicago Square) is a skyscraper in the River North neighborhood of Chicago. The building would have two towers connected by a central podium. When completed, the taller of the two towers would be the sixth-tallest structure in Chicago. 

The development has been approved by the Chicago Plan Commission for its zoning change and will have up to 869 residential units, both apartments and condominiums.

[[400 Lake Shore Drive]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in Chicago, Illinois

400 Lake Shore Drive is a proposed set of connected towers to be built in Chicago, Illinois. Related Midwest is developing the project, and the firm Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill designed the buildings. It is scheduled to be completed by 2023.

[[Tribune East Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Proposed skyscrapers in the United States

Tribune East Tower is a proposed 1422 mixed use tower on the eastern edge of the Tribune Tower property in the Streeterville area of the Near North Side community areas of Chicago. If completed, the skyscraper would become the second-tallest in Chicago. 

Plans were officially announced for a 1422 tall 200-unit hotel, 439-apartment and 125-condominium building on April 16, 2018. These plans make the building 29 shorter than the Willis Tower, the city's tallest.

On mid-October 2018, the Chicago Plan Commission approved the plans for the city's second tallest building. Chicago City Council approved the plans in an October 31 meeting.

[[Conchata Ferrell]]

CATEGORIES: Drama Desk Award winners, 1943 births, 2020 deaths, Deaths from cardiac arrest, American movie actors, American stage actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from West Virginia, People from Charleston, West Virginia

Conchata Galen Ferrell (March 28, 1943 – October 12, 2020) was an American actress. She was best known for playing Berta the housekeeper for all twelve seasons of the sitcom Two and a Half Men. For her role, she received two Primetime Emmy Award nominations (in 2005 and 2007).

Ferrell was born in Loudendale, West Virginia. She died on October 12, 2020 after a cardiac arrest at her home in Sherman Oaks, Los Angeles at the age of 77.

[[Loudendale, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in West Virginia

Loudendale is an unincorporated community in Kanawha County, West Virginia.

[[Kanawha County, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: West Virginia counties

Kanawha County (k kə or k kə) is a county in the U.S. state of West Virginia. As of the 2010 census, the population was 193,063. It is West Virginia's most populous county. Its county seat is Charleston, the state capital.

[[Óscar Enrique Sánchez]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from surgical complications, People from Guatemala City, Olympians, Guatemalan footballers

Oscar Enrique Sánchez Rivas (15 July 1955 – 25 July 2019) popularly known as El Conejo (the rabbit) was a Guatemalan football coach and inside forward. He played the for the club CSD Comunicaciones, and represented the Guatemala national football team at the Olympic Games and in three FIFA World Cup qualification processes.

[[Kyoto Animation arson attack]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 disasters in Asia, 2010s crimes in Asia, 2010s fires, 2010s in Japan, Arson, Attacks on buildings and structures in 2019, Attacks on buildings and structures in Asia, Building and structure fires in Asia, Disasters in Japan, July 2019 events, Kyoto

The Kyoto Animation arson attack happened at Kyoto Animation's Studio 1 building for anime in the Fushimi-ku ward of Kyoto, Japan, on the morning of 18 July 2019.

The arson killed at least 36 people, injured 34, and destroyed all materials and computers in Studio 1. It is one of the deadliest killings in Japanese history since the end of World War II and the deadliest building fire in Japan since the Myojo 56 building fire in 2001.

Many heads of state have expressed condolences, including António Guterres, General Secretary of the United Nations. And many donations and massages have send to victims of the arson attack.

[[John Nott]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, UK MPs 1966–1970, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, People from Devon, Former Conservative MPs (UK)

Sir John William Frederic Nott GBR (born 1 February 1932) is a former British Conservative Party politician. He was well known in the late 1970s and early 1980s. He was Secretary of State for Defence during the Argentine invasion of the Falkland Islands and the Falklands War in the Margaret Thatcher cabinet.

[[Tom King, Baron King of Bridgwater]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, Living people, UK MPs 1966–1970, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, UK MPs 1983–1987, UK MPs 1987–1992, UK MPs 1992–1997, UK MPs 1997–2001, Former Conservative MPs (UK), People from Warwickshire

Thomas Jeremy King, Baron King of Bridgwater, GBR (born 13 June 1933) is a British politician. He is a member of the Conservative Party. 

King was in the Cabinet from 1983–92, and was the Member of Parliament (MP) for the constituency of Bridgwater in Somerset from 1970–2001. He was made a life peer in 2001.

In October 1988, there was a plot to murder King at his home in Winchester during the growing intensity of The Troubles.

[[Punggol]]

CATEGORIES: Places in Singapore

Colloquial

Punggol (in s=榜鹅, in பொங்கோல்), which can also be spelt as Ponggol, is a planning area and town. It was built on the Tanjong Pungool peninsula in the North-Eastern part of Singapore. It is North of Sengkang and has a riverline border with Seletar and Pasir Ris. The Straits of Johor is North of it. Coney Island is part of Pungool.

[[The Reverend William Thornton (1830-1916)]]

CATEGORIES: 1830 births, 1916 deaths

The Reverend W. H. Thornton (1830-1916) 

Became the first vicar of the parish of Exmoor, Somerset, England in 1856. Exmoor was 18,810 acres and had not had a spiritual leader because the population was too small. By 1856, the population had expanded to give the area parish status.

Married Grace Anne Furnival in 1857

Brought William Burgess to justice for the murder of Anna Burgess, his daughter, in 1858. This followed a chase on horseback from Somerset into Wales.

Moved as rector, to Dunsford, Devon, England in 1860

Became rector of North Bovey in Devon in 1866 and served there for 50 years.

Chased a fraudster to France in 1867, caught him and recovered £40,000 for the church

Died in 1916 and is buried, alongside his wife, in North Bovey churchyard.

[[Yankee]]

CATEGORIES: New England

The term "Yankee" (sometimes shortened to "Yank") have many different meanings. All refer to people from the United States. Outside the United States, "Yank" is used to refer to any American, including Southerners. Within the Southern United States, "Yankee" is a name which refers to all Northerners, or specifically to those from the region of New England, often in a mean way. The Oxford English Dictionary says that it is "a nickname for a person from New England, or, more widely, of the northern States generally." During the American Civil War, it was "used by the Confederates to the soldiers of the Federal army".

Elsewhere in the United States, it often refers to people from the Northeastern states, but especially those with New England cultural ties. This would include people who have colonial New England settler ancestors, wherever they live.

[[Plymouth Congregational Church (Lawrence, Kansas)]]

CATEGORIES: 1854 establishments in Kansas Territory, Churches in the United States, Buildings and structures in Lawrence, Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas, National Register of Historic Places in Douglas County, Kansas

Plymouth Congregational Church of Lawrence, Kansas is church that was created in 1854, months after the Territory of Kansas was opened to settlement. The present-day church building was built in 1870, and it is on the National Register of Historic Places.

The architect was John G. Haskell. He designed the Kansas State Capitol.

[[Achille, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Achille is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. As of the 2010 census, the town population was 492. 

[[Disney, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Disney is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Barber County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Barber County, Kansas

Barber County (county code BA) is a county in the south-central part of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 4,861 people lived there. The county seat is Medicine Lodge. Medicine Lodge is also the biggest city in Barber County.  Barber County was named after Thomas W. Barber (born 22 February 1814), an abolitionist martyr who was killed in Douglas County 6 December 1855, during the Wakarusa War.

[[Adair, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Adair is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Addington, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Addington is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Agra, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Agra is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Albion, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Albion is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Alderson, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Alderson is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Alex, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Alex is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Bourbon County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Bourbon County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Bourbon County (county code BB) is a county  in Southeast Kansas. In 2010, 15,173 people lived there. Its county seat is Fort Scott. Fort Scott is also the biggest city in Bourbon County.

[[Allen, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Allen is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Amber, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Amber is a town in the state of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Decatur County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Decatur County (county code DC) is a county in Northwest Kansas. In 2010, 2,961 people lived there. Its county seat is Oberlin. Oberlin is also the biggest city in Decatur County. The county is named after Commodore Stephen Decatur, Jr.

[[Ames, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Ames is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Cleo Springs, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Cleo Springs is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Chêne-Bourg]]

CATEGORIES: Municipalities of Geneva

Chêne-Bourg is a municipality in the canton of Geneva in Switzerland.

[[Jewell County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1887 establishments in Kansas, Jewell County, Kansas

Jewell County (county code JW) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 3,077 people lived there. Its county seat is Mankato. Mankato is also the biggest city in Jewell County.

[[Scott County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1873 establishments in Kansas, Kansas counties

Scott County (standard abbreviation: SC) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 4,936 people lived there. Its county seat is Scott City. Scott City is the only city in the county.

[[Seward County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Seward County, Kansas, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Seward County (standard abbreviation: SW) is a county of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 22,952 people lived there. The county seat is Liberal. Liberal is also the biggest city in Seward County. The county was created on March 20, 1873. It was named after William Henry Seward.

[[Sumner County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1870s establishments in Kansas, 1870 establishments in the United States, Sumner County, Kansas

Sumner County (standard abbreviation: SU) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 24,132 people lived there. Its county seat is Wellington.

[[Reno County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Reno County, Kansas

Reno County (standard abbreviation: RN) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 64,511 people lived there. The county seat is Hutchinson. Hutchinson is also the biggest city in Reno County.

[[Miami County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Miami County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Miami County (county code MI) is a county in east-central Kansas. In 2010, 32,787 people lived there. Its county seat is Paola. Paola is also the biggest city in Miami County.

[[Republic County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1860 establishments in Kansas Territory

Republic County (standard abbreviation: RP) is a county in the state of Kansas. It is south from the Nebraska border. In 2010 census, 4,980 people lived there. The county seat is Belleville. Belleville is also the biggest city in Republic County.

[[McGurk's Bar bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 1971 in Europe, 1970s crimes in Europe, 1970s disasters in Europe, 1970s explosions, Attacks on bars, Attacks on buildings and structures in Northern Ireland, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1970s, Belfast, Building bombings in the United Kingdom, December events, Explosions in Northern Ireland, Mass murder in Northern Ireland, Mass murder in the 1970s, Terrorist incidents in the 1970s, The Troubles

On 4 December 1971, the Ulster Volunteer Force placed a bomb at the entrance to a pub in New Lodge, Belfast, Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. It exploded, killing 15 people, injuring 17 others and destroying the building.

[[Fort Rouge (fortification)]]

CATEGORIES: 1738 establishments, Winnipeg

Fort Rouge is the former name of the city of Winnipeg in Manitoba, Canada. Its exact location is unknown. Its name in English means "red fort".

[[Rice County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Rice County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Rice County (standard abbreviation: RC) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 10,083 people lived there. The county seat is Lyons. Lyons is also the biggest city in Rice County. The county was named after Samuel Allen Rice, Brigadier-General, United States volunteers, killed April 30, 1864, at Jenkins Ferry, Arkansas.

[[Pratt County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Pratt County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Pratt County (standard abbreviation: PR) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 9,656 people lived there. The county seat is Pratt. Pratt is also the biggest city in Pratt County.

[[Rawlins County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Rawlins County (standard abbreviation: RA) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,519 people lived there. The county seat is Atwood. Atwood is also the biggest city in Rawlins County. It was named after Union Civil War General John Aaron Rawlins.

[[Meade County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Meade County, Kansas, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Meade County (standard abbreviation: ME) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 4,575 people lived there. The county seat is Meade. Meade is also the biggest city in Meade County. The county was created in 1873. It was named after General George G. Meade.

[[Mitchell County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Mitchell County, Kansas

Mitchell County (standard abbreviation: MC) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 6,373 people lived there. The county seat is Beloit. Beloit is also the biggest city in Mitchell County.

[[Russell County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Russell County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Russell County (standard abbreviation: RS) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 6,970 people lived there. The county seat is Russell. Russell is also the biggest city in Russell County.

[[Rush County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Rush County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Rush County (standard abbreviation: RH) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 3,307 people lived there. The county seat is La Crosse. La Crosse is also the biggest city in Rush County.

[[Ruanruan]]

CATEGORIES: Languages of China, Pages with unreviewed translations

Ruanruan (蠕蠕; also called Rouran) is an extinct language of Mongolia and northern China. It was spoken in the Rouran Khaganate from the 4th to the 6th centuries CE. It is possibly Altaic or Sino–Tibetan.

Some say Ruan-ruan may be a Yeniseian language, a possible Sino-Tibetan language. 

In 2018, Brāhmī Bugut and Khüis Tolgoi inscriptions suggest that the Ruan-ruan language was a Mongolic language, close to Middle Mongolian.

[[Phillips County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Phillips County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Phillips County (standard abbreviation: PL) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 5,642 people lived there. The county seat is Phillipsburg. Phillipsburg is also the biggest city in Phillips County.

[[Pawnee County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Pawnee County, Kansas

Pawnee County (standard abbreviation: PN) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 6,973 people lived there. The county seat is Larned. Larned is also the biggest city in Pawnee County.

The county is named after the Pawnee Tribe.

[[Chautauqua County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1875 establishments in Kansas, Chautauqua County, Kansas

Chautauqua County (county code CQ) is a county in Southeast Kansas. In 2010, 3,669 people lived there. Its county seat is Sedan. Sedan is also the biggest city in Chautauqua County. Chautauqua County is named after Chautauqua County, New York, where Edward Jaquins was born. Jaquins was a Kansas politician who was important in getting the county created.

[[Chase County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1859 establishments in Kansas Territory, Chase County, Kansas

Chase County (county code CS) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,790 people lived there. Its county seat is Cottonwood Falls. Cottonwood Falls is also the biggest city in Chase County.  The center of population of Kansas is in Chase County, about four miles north of Strong City.

[[Cheyenne County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cheyenne County, Kansas, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Cheyenne County (county code CN) is a county in the northwest corner of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,726 people lived there. Its county seat is St. Francis. St. Francis is also the biggest city in Cheyenne County.

[[Heqin]]

CATEGORIES: Marriage, Chinese culture

Heqin means marriage alliance. The term is used in Chinese history. An emperor would marry one of his princesses to his enemy. In return they would have peace with the enemy. It did not always work, and many people hated it.

[[Rouran]]

CATEGORIES: Eurasian nomads, History of Mongolia, Pages with unreviewed translations

The Rouran (Róurán) ruled northern China during the Sixteen Kingdoms period. 

They were either proto-Mongols or Turkic. They spoke the Ruanruan language, an Altaic or Sino–Tibetan language.  

They descended from the Xianbei. The Rouran are the first to use the words "khan" or "khagan". The Rouran Khaganate existed between the 4-6 centuries. They were then overthrown by the Gokturks. This led to the rise of the Turkic peoples. 

The Rouran may have fled west after that and become part of the Pannonian Avars. The Göktürks chased after these "Avars" into the Byzantine Empire.

[[Eurasian Steppe]]

CATEGORIES: History of Pakistan, Eastern Europe, Central Asia

The Eurasian Steppe (or Ya'ou Steppe; 亚欧草原) is a steppe ecoregion (a huge stretch of grasslands) in north Eurasia. It stretches from Eastern Europe, Russia, Kazakhstan, to Mongolia and north China. It is south of Siberia.

For most of history, nomads lived and wandered there on horseback. The horse may have came from the steppe, around Kazakhstan. With the horses the steppe was a highway that moved people from China to Europe. For this reason it became important for the Silk Road.

The steppe has been ruled by many empires. Examples are the Altaic people, Chinese, Slavic people, and Central Asians: including the Xiongnu, Scythians, Han dynasty, Xianbei, Sogdians, Turkic Khaganate, Khazars, Tang Dynasty, Mongol Empire, Russian Empire, and Qing dynasty.

[[Otuken]]

CATEGORIES: History of Mongolia, Pages with unreviewed translations

Ötüken was the capital of the Turkic Khaganate. Otugan was around Mongolia and Central Asia on the Khangan Plateau. Ötüken probably stretched "from the Khangai Range of Central Mongolia to the Sayan Mountains of Tuva Siberia, at the centre of which is the Orkhon Valley". which for centuries was regarded as the seat of the imperial power of the steppes.

It was also an important place in Turkic mythology and Tengrism. Otukan means Mother Earth.

[[Chu River]]

CATEGORIES: Coordinates on Wikidata, Rivers of Asia, Geography of Kyrgyzstan, Geography of Kazakhstan

The Chu (or Shu, from Chinese: 楚 chǔ) is a river in northern Kyrgyzstan and southern Kazakhstan. It is 1067 km long and is one of the longest rivers in Central Asia, a landlocked region. They are the homeplace of the Dungan people, who moved there during the Qing dynasty.

[[Lake Balqash]]

CATEGORIES: Lakes of Asia, Coordinates on Wikidata

Lake Balkhash (Balqash kóli) is located in Kazakhstan. It is one of the largest lakes in Asia and 15th largest in the world. 

It belongs to a Central Asian endorheic basin shared by Kazakhstan, China, and Kyrgyzstan. Water moves from the basin to Balqash via seven rivers. The most important one is the Ili River. Water in the Ili River comes from melted snow from the mountains of China's Xinjiang.

[[North–South Corridor, Singapore]]

CATEGORIES: Transport in Singapore

[[Expressways of Singapore]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of roads, Transport in Singapore

The expressways of Singapore are:

[[Pentium 4]]

CATEGORIES: Computer processors

Pentium 4 is a seventh generation single core Microprocessor of x86 architecture (32-bit), manufactured by Intel. Its first complete redesign CPU (called NetBurst) since the processor Pentium Pro, released in 1995. Compared to the Pentium II, Pentium III and Celeron processors, its architecture is little similar to the Pentium Pro/P6 processor design. The NetBurst microarchitecture contains a very deep instruction pipeline to be able to achieve very high frequencies. The Pentium 4 was known for being inefficient and producing a large amount of heat. Because of this, Intel introduced the Core 2 in 2006. Intel stopped making the Pentium 4 in 2008.

[[Lee-Enfield]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

The Lee-Enfield is a series of bolt-action rifles that was used by the British Armed Forces. It was the main British rifle for the first half of the 20th century, and was used until the end of the century.

While it was not as powerful as rifles used by other countries during both World War I and World War II, it was well-known for holding a lot of bullets and for having a very high rate of fire.

The Lee-Enfield can be loaded with two magazines of five British .303 bullets, allowing for the shooter to have up to ten bullets in the rifle at a time.

Even though bolt-action rifles tend to fire much more slowly than semi-automatic or fully automatic weapons, the Lee-Enfield can fire almost as fast as a semi-automatic rifle if the shooter is well-trained with the weapon. This is because the rifle's bolt needs very little movement to eject and load the rifle.

[[Mosin-Nagant]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

The Mosin-Nagant is a series of bolt-action rifles used by the Russian Empire and later the Soviet Union. It was their main rifle throughout the Russo-Japanese War, World War I and World War II. After World War II, it was replaced by the SKS rifle. It was also commonly used by the USSR's allies during the Cold War, and it is still used today by some smaller militaries. It is also popular with civilians due to its cheap price. It is the most produced bolt-action rifle of all-time. More than 37 million Mosin-Nagants were made.

It holds up five 7.62 x 54mmR bullets, which is still used by Russian machine guns and sniper rifles today.

It was the rifle used by Vasily Zaytsev, a Soviet World War II sniper and one of the deadliest snipers of all time.

[[7.62 x 54mmR]]

CATEGORIES: Pistol and rifle cartridges, Military cartridges

[[Bai people]]

CATEGORIES: Ethnic groups in China

The Baizu (Bai language: 白和; Báizú; literally: white people) are East Asian. They are one of the 56 ethnic groups of China. In 2010 their population was 1,933,510. They live mostly in Yunnan.

[[Tubo]]

CATEGORIES: 618 establishments, Former countries in Central Asia, History of Asia, Former monarchies of Asia, All articles with dead external links, All articles with unsourced statements

Tubo (吐蕃;, Tibetan: བོད་ཆེན་པོ, bod chen po), also called the Tibetan Empire, existed from the 7th to 9th centuries. Its first king was Songtsen Gampo. Its second king was Mangsong Mangzan. It controlled the Tibetan Plateau as well as parts of Central Asia and South Asia. They came after the Zhangzhung people, who practiced the Bon religion. The Tibet empire imported Buddhism from China and India, combined it with the native Bon religion, and created Tibetan Buddhism. Gampo also helped invent the Tibetan alphabet during this time.

[[Bamar]]

CATEGORIES: Pages using deprecated image syntax, Pages with unreviewed translations

The Bamar (Burmese: ဗမာလူမျိုး bama loo-myo), Burmese or Burmans are the largest ethnic group in Myanmar. The Bamar live around the Irrawaddy River. They speak the Burmese language, the official language of Myanmar.

[[Nanzhao]]

CATEGORIES: Former monarchies of Asia

Nanzhao are a Sino-Tibetan kingdom that existed southern China and Southeast Asia during the 8th and 9th centuries. It was centered in Yunnan, China.

[[Rosé (singer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Living people, K-pop singers, Blackpink members, New Zealand singers

Roseanne Park is a New Zealand-born Australian singer. She is based in South Korea and goes by the mononym Rosé. She a member of Blackpink, which as of 2019 is the highest-charting female K-pop group. On March 12 2021, she debuted as a solo artist with her single album -R-, which received lots of positive feedback from listeners. Rosé is also well known on social media as she has over 40.2 million of followers on Instagram. 

Rosé was born in New Zealand on 11 February 1997. At the age of seven, she moved to Australia. In 2012, she had an audition for YG Entertainment at the age of 16.  She later signed with YG Entertainment and moved to South Korea. In 2018 it was announced that BLACKPINK has been signed to INTERSCOPE Records.

==Discography== 

[[List of unused or defunct New York City Subway services]]

The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) does not use some letters and numbers to identify routes on the New York City Subway.

[[G98 Mauser rifle]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

The G98 Mauser rifle is a bolt-action rifle used by Germany from 1898 until the end of World War I. It was the German military's main rifle during that time. In 1935, it was replaced by Kar98k, a carbine version of the G98.

It was not the first bolt-action rifle ever made, but its design is so well-liked by militaries worldwide that many bolt-action rifles copied its design. Some rifles based on the G98 that were made in other countries include the American M1903 Springfield rifle and the Japanese Type 38 and Type 99 Arisaka rifles. Even today, many bolt-action rifles still follow the G98's basic design.

The rifle held up to five 7.92 x 57mm Mauser rounds. It was also clip-fed, which means that the shooter can load many bullets at one time, rather than just one bullet at a time.

[[M1903 Springfield rifle]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

The M1903 Springfield rifle was a bolt-action rifle used by the Military of the United States during both World War I, World War II, the Korean War, and the early part of the Vietnam War.

The Springfield was based on the German G98 Mauser rifle. It holds up to five .30-06 Springfield bullets.

It was the US's main rifle during World War I. In 1936, it was replaced by the M1 Garand, a semi-automatic rifle. This was because semi-automatic rifles could fire bullets more quickly than bolt-action rifles. This was important because in World War I much of the fighting took place in trenches. In tight spaces like those in trench warfare, it is very important to be able to shoot quickly, and semi-automatic firearms do a better job at that than bolt-action rifles. However, it was still commonly used during World War II, and it became the main sniper rifle for the US. It was the main sniper rifle of the US until the early part of the Vietnam War.

[[.30-06 Springfield]]

CATEGORIES: Ammunition

The .30-06 Springfield cartridge, pronounced "thirty-aught-six", is a bullet used for guns made in the United States. It was first used for the M1903 Springfield rifle.

The ".30" means that the bullet is .30 inches (7.62 millimeters) in diameter, and the "06" means it was first used in the US military in the year 1906

The .30-06 is known for having high stopping power (meaning it does a lot of damage to a human or animal body), high penetration power (it can pierce through thick layers), and a long effective range (it is accurate for a long distance).

In the US military, it was the main bullet used for rifles and light machine guns for the first half of the 20th century. Guns that shot the .30-06 include the M1903 Springfield, the M1 Garand, the M1917, the M1919 Browning machine gun, and the BAR.

However, when the US created NATO, it replaced all the .30-06 military weapons with those that used the 7.62 x 51mm NATO bullet. This is because NATO requires the militaries of all its member countries to use the same kinds of ammunition.

However, there are still many American hunting and sporting rifles made today that fire the .30-06 because it is still very popular with hunters and competitive shooters.

[[Effective range]]

CATEGORIES: Ballistics, Ammunition

Effective range is the distance a well-aimed bullet can hit a target accurately. A bullet shot can actually travel far past its effective range, but it is not certain if it will hit its target then, even if the shot was well-aimed. Generally, bullets with a higher muzzle velocity will have a longer effective range.

[[Muzzle velocity]]

CATEGORIES: Ballistics, Ammunition

Muzzle velocity is the speed that a bullet travels as soon as it is fired. Bullets with higher muzzle velocities tend to have higher effective ranges.

[[Shirley Williams]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2021 deaths, Academics of the University of Cambridge, Academics of the University of Oxford, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Columbia University alumni, English Roman Catholics, Former Labour MPs (UK), Former Liberal Democrats MPs (UK), Former members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Harvard University faculty, Journalists from London, Members of the House of Lords, Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, Social Democratic Party MPs (UK), UK MPs 1964–1966, UK MPs 1966–1970, UK MPs 1970–1974, UK MPs 1974, UK MPs 1974–1979, UK MPs 1979–1983, Politicians from London, Women politicians

Shirley Vivian Teresa Brittain Williams, Baroness Williams of Crosby, GBR (née Catlin; 27 July 1930 – 12 April 2021) was a retired British politician. 

Williams was originally a Labour MP - first elected to the House of Commons in 1964 - but left to found the Social Democratic Party (later the Liberal Democrats) in 1981. She served in government through the 1960s and 70s, but was defeated as an MP in 1983. She was awarded a life peerage in 1993 and retired in 2016. She was made a Companion of Honour in 2017.

Williams was the daughter of the author Vera Brittain and Sir George Catlin. She died on 12 April 2021, aged 90.

[[Antonia Fraser]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, British writers

Lady Antonia Margaret Caroline Fraser CH DBE (née Pakenham; born 27 August 1932) is a British historian and author. She is best known for history books, biographies and detective stories.

Lady Antonia was the daughter of the 7th Earl and Countess of Longford. She was married to Hugh Fraser from 1956 until their divorce in 1977. She was then married to the playwright Harold Pinter from 1980 until his death in 2008. She attended the University of Oxford. Her first major book - a biography of Mary, Queen of Scots was published in 1969.

She was awarded a damehood in 2011 and was made a Companion of Honour in 2018.

[[Evelyn Glennie]]

CATEGORIES: British musicians, 1965 births, Living people, Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire

Dame Evelyn Elizabeth Ann Glennie CH DBE (born 19 July 1965) is a Scottish musician specialising in percussion.

Glennie has been deaf since the age of 12. She uses vibrations of the instruments to play during performances.

She was awarded a damehood in 2007, and was made a Companion of Honour in 2017.

[[Terajoule]]

CATEGORIES: Units of measurement, Energy

The terajoule (TJ) is equal to one trillion (1012) joules; or about 0.278 GWh (which is often used in energy tables). About 63 TJ of energy was released by the atomic bomb that exploded over Hiroshima. The International Space Station, with a mass of approximately 450 megagrams and orbital velocity of 7.7 km/s, has a kinetic energy of roughly 13 TJ. In 2017 Hurricane Irma was estimated to have a peak wind energy of 112 TJ.

[[Hipercor bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 in Europe, 1980s explosions in Europe, 1980s murders in Europe, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1980s, Building bombings in Europe, Car and truck bombings in Europe, Crime in Spain, History of Barcelona, June events, Terrorist incidents in Europe in the 1980s

The Hipercor bombing was a car bombing by Basque separatist group ETA. It happened on 19 June 1987 at the Hipercor shopping centre on Avinguda Meridiana, Barcelona, Spain. It killed 21 people and injured another 45.

[[Mary Peters]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, British athletes

Lady Mary Elizabeth Peters LG CH DBE (born 6 July 1939) is a retired athlete and sportsperson from Northern Ireland. She won a gold medal at the 1972 Olympic Games for pentathlon, as well as three gold medals in the Commonwealth Games in shot put and pentathlon.

She founded the Mary Peters Trust which helps young people in Northern Ireland to take part in sport. She was also Lord Lieutenant of Belfast from 2009-2014.

She was made a dame in 2000, a Companion of Honour in 2015, and a Lady Companion of the Order of the Garter in 2019.

[[Kathleen Lonsdale]]

CATEGORIES: 1903 births, 1971 deaths, British scientists

Dame Kathleen Lonsdale DBE FRS (née Yardley; 28 January 1903 - 1 April 1971) was a British scientist.

She got her degree from University College London in 1924, and was awarded a doctorate in 1934. She used X-ray diffraction to work out the structure of lots of chemicals, and used X-rays to study crystals.

Lonsdale was the first woman to be made a professor at University College London (1949), one of the first women to be made a Fellow of the Royal Society (1945), and was made a dame in 1956.

[[Tropical Storm Nari]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 Pacific typhoon season

Tropical Storm Nari was a Storm that devastated Japan. 

[[Leake County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Leake County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 23,805 people lived there. Its county seat is Carthage.

[[Simpson County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1820s establishments in Mississippi, 1824 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Simpson County is a county in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 27,503 people lived there. Its county seat is Mendenhall.

[[Amorita, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Amorita is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Apache, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Apache is a town in Caddo County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 1,444 at the 2010 census.

[[Arapaho, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma, County seats in Oklahoma

Arapaho is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is the county seat of Custer County.

[[Congressional caucus]]

CATEGORIES: Politics

A congressional caucus is a group of members of the United States Congress that meets to try to get common legislative goals. Officially, caucuses are created as congressional member organizations (CMOs) through the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate. They are governed under the rules of these chambers. They are sometimes called conferences (especially Republican ones), coalitions, study groups, task forces, or working groups. Many other countries use the term parliamentary group—for example, the Parliament of the United Kingdom has many all-party parliamentary groups.

[[Nelson Muntz]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional criminals, The Simpsons characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1990

Nelson Mandela Muntz  is a fictional character in the animated television series The Simpsons.  Nelson is a school bully. Nelson constantly laughs at other people. He first appeared in the episode, Bart the General, in which Bart Simpson convinces everyone to fight back against Nelson. Nelson repeatedly throws Bart into a trash can.  He also is seen pushing people into lockers and torments other characters especially Milhouse Van Houten and more often minor character Martin Prince by giving them wedgies.  In the episode Revenge is a Dish Best Served Three Times Over, in a story called The Revenge of the Geeks, Milhouse gets revenge against all the bullies using a weapon that causes them to experience everything they did to the nerds.  Lisa Simpson convinces Milhouse to put down his weapon and Nelson shows up saying "you forgot about me because I had the mumps" and then uses Milhouse's weapon against Milhouse.  In the episode Dial N for Nerder, Martin Prince is seemingly killed by Bart Simpson and Lisa Simpson who then cover up what happened and Nelson tries to get to the bottom of it. It is revealed in the show that when he was a young child Nelson's father left to get a pack of cigarettes and never came back.  Nelson is poor. At one point Nelson dates Lisa Simpson.

[[Hendrix, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Hendrix is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Arkoma, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Arkoma is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Armstrong, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Armstrong is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Avant, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Avant is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is in Osage County.

[[Arnett, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma, County seats in Oklahoma

Arnett is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is the county seat of Ellis County.

[[Ashland, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Ashland is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Mannford, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Mannford is a city in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Atwood, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Atwood is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Bearden, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Bearden is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Bennington, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Bennington is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Bernice, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Bernice is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Bessie, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Bessie is a city in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Bethel Acres, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Bethel Acres is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Big Cabin, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Big Cabin is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Billings, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Billings is a city in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Binger, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Binger is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Carmen, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Carmen is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Blackburn, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Blackburn is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Blair, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Blair is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Fallis, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Fallis is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Bradley, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Bradley is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is in Grady County.

[[Hank Stuever]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people

Hank Stuever is an American journalist working for the Washington Post. He writes for its Style section about entertainment. 

[[Dublin and Monaghan bombings]]

CATEGORIES: 1974 in Europe, 1970s crimes in Europe, 1970s disasters in Europe, 1970s explosions, 20th century in Dublin, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1970s, Building bombings in Europe, Car and truck bombings in Europe, Mass murder in Europe, Mass murder in the 1970s, May events, Terrorist incidents in the 1970s, The Troubles

The Dublin and Monaghan bombings happened in Dublin and Monaghan, Republic of Ireland on 17 May 1974. The Ulster Volunteer Force used 3 car bombs in Dublin and another one in Monaghan to kill 33 people and injure nearly 300 others. The bombings were the deadliest attack in the Troubles. It was also the deadliest attack in the Republic of Ireland's history.

[[Jack Ü]]

CATEGORIES: American DJs

Jack Ü is an American DJ duo, consisting of Mad Decent founder Diplo and Grammy award winning producer Skrillex, formed in 2013.

[[Hexadecene]]

CATEGORIES: Alkenes

Hexadecene, also known as cetene, is an alkene containing 16 carbon atoms, with a molecular formula of C16H32. There are eight different structural isomers of hexadecene, depending on the location of the double carbon bond.

[[President of Gabon]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Gabon

This is a list of presidents of the African country of Gabon.

[[301 Deansgate]]

CATEGORIES: Manchester, Buildings and structures in England

Beetham Tower (also known as the Hilton Tower) is a landmark 47-storey mixed use skyscraper in Manchester, England. Completed in 2006, it is named after its developers, the Beetham Organisation, and was designed by SimpsonHaugh and Partners. The development occupies a sliver of land at the top of Deansgate, hence its elongated plan, and was proposed in July 2003, with construction starting a year later.

At a height of 554, it is the tallest externally complete building in Manchester and tallest outside London in the United Kingdom. It was described by the Financial Times as "the UK's first proper skyscraper outside London". From 2006 to 2018, the skyscraper was the tallest building in Manchester and outside London in the United Kingdom. In November 2018 it was surpassed by the newly topped out South Tower at Deansgate Square; which is 659 tall.

As a result of the elongated floor plan, the structure is one of the thinnest skyscrapers in the world with a height to width ratio of 10:1 on the east west façade, but is noticeably wider on the north south façade. A four-metre cantilever marks the transition between hotel and residential use on the north façade, and a blade structure on the south side of the building acts as a façade overrun accentuating its slim form and doubles as a lightning rod. The skyscraper is visible from ten English counties on a clear day.

Floors 1 to 22 are occupied by the 279-bedroom four-star Hilton Manchester Deansgate Hotel. The 23rd floor has a four-metre cantilevered overhang with two glass windows in its floor, overlooking the ground from the skybar, Cloud 23, the only such bar in Manchester. The floor has a bar and lounge operated by Hilton. Floors 25 to 47 are occupied by residential apartments.

The top floor penthouse offers views of Greater Manchester, the Cheshire Plain, the Pennines and Snowdonia. The tower is known for emitting a loud unintentional hum or howl in windy weather, believed to emanate from the glass 'blade' atop the building. The hum has been recorded as a B below middle C and can be heard over large parts of the local area.

Architectural response to the skyscraper is polarised and interpretations vary. Some questioned its dominant appearance over the city – particularly over listed buildings with one author going as far to say the skyscraper instantly "torpedoed" any possibility of Manchester becoming a UNESCO World Heritage City – a status Manchester was previously on the United Kingdom shortlist for due its industrial past.

Others feel its dramatic appearance and peculiarity is reflective of Manchester, and that the Beetham Tower symbolises Manchester's reinvention as a post-industrial city - particularly since the bombing of 1996. Nevertheless, it has received praise and was awarded the best tall building in the world in 2007 by the Council for Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat.

[[Blake Camp]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, American footballers, Sportspeople from Georgia (U.S. state), Living people

Blake Camp (born October 11, 1983) is an American soccer player.

Camp played some youth soccer in England and has trained with several prestigious professional clubs, including Manchester United and Blackburn Rovers in England, Real Valladolid in Spain, and Palmeiras in Brazil. After starring at Clarke Central High School in Georgia, where he was a four-time all-area performer, he played college soccer at Duke University. He became a regular starter and an all-ACC performer as a sophomore in 2003, then again in 2004 and 2005. In 2004, he was named to the NCAA Final Four All Tournament team. Camp was named to the Herman Trophy watch list in 2004 and 2005 and earned all-America honors as a junior and senior, finishing his collegiate career with 24 goals and the ACC Tournament MVP award as a senior.

[[E-book reader]]

CATEGORIES: Books, Computer science, Electronics

An e-reader, also called an e-book reader or e-book device, is a mobile electronic device that is designed primarily for the purpose of reading digital e-books and periodicals.

Any device that can display text on a screen may act as an e-reader, but specialized e-reader devices may optimize portability, readability (especially in sunlight), and battery life for this purpose. Their main advantages over printed books are portability since an e-reader is capable of holding thousands of books while weighing less than one and the convenience provided due to add-on features in these devices.

[[Zhongli District]]

CATEGORIES: Counties of Taiwan

Zhongli DistrictZhongli District (中壢區) is a district in Taoyuan City, Taiwan. Zhongli is spelled variously as Jungli, Jongli, Jhongli or Chungli on railway, bus stop and road signs. Historically, the city is the site of the Jungli Incident of 1977, the most significant event of the democratization movement prior to the 1980s. Ethnically, it is considered a kind of capital city for the Hakka Taiwanese, who live in great numbers here and nearby; a lot of the elderly could speak Hakka in addition to Mandarin and Taiwanese Hokkien. Recently many foreign workers (mainly from the Philippines and Thailand) have also settled in and around the city because of the heavy industries in the suburbs of the city. It is a center for foreign laborers. The city of Zhongli has 3 large parks and over 70 green reserves in the city for residents of Zhongli to enjoy.

[[Acastus]]

CATEGORIES: People in Greek mythology

Acastus (ə; Ancient Greek: Ἄκαστος) is a character in Greek mythology.  He sailed with Jason and the Argonauts, and participated in the hunt for the Calydonian Boar.

[[Presidential Commission of Uganda]]

CATEGORIES: Uganda

The Presidential Commission of Uganda held the office of President of Uganda between 22 May and 15 December 1980. It was made up of the following:

[[Enniskillen bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 in Europe, 1980s explosions in Europe, 1980s murders in the United Kingdom, Attacks on buildings and structures in Northern Ireland, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1980s, Building bombings in the United Kingdom, Explosions in Northern Ireland, Mass murder in Northern Ireland, November events, Provisional Irish Republican Army, Terrorist incidents in the United Kingdom in the 1980s

The Enniskillen bombing took place on 8 November 1987 in Enniskillen, County Fermanagh, Northern Ireland. A Provisional Irish Republican Army bomb exploded near the town's centotaph during a Remembrance Sunday ceremony. The ceremony was commemorating members of the British Armed Forces who had been killed in wars. 

[[Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway]]

CATEGORIES: Rail transport in the United States, Companies of the United States

The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway ATSF (often referred to as the Santa Fe or AT&SF) was a large railroad in the United States. Created in February 1859, the railroad reached the Kansas-Colorado border in 1873 and Pueblo, Colorado, in 1876. To create a demand for its services, the railroad set up real estate offices and sold farm land. Despite the name, its main railroad never served Santa Fe, New Mexico. This was because the terrain was too rough. A branch line from Lamy reached Santa Fe instead.

The railroad officially ended on December 31, 1996, when it merged with the Burlington Northern Railroad to form the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway.

The Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway (AT&SF) was created on February 11, 1859, to join Atchison and Topeka, Kansas, with Santa Fe, New Mexico. In its early years, the railroad helped people settle in Kansas. A lot of its revenue came from wheat grown there and from cattle driven north from Texas to Wichita and Dodge City by September 1872.

AT&SF reached Albuquerque in 1880. Santa Fe (the original goal of the railroad) was on a short branch from Lamy, New Mexico.

[[List of monarchs of the Netherlands]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of heads of state, Kings and Queens of the Netherlands

[[CIS Tower]]

CATEGORIES: Buildings and structures in England, Skyscrapers

The CIS Tower is an office skyscraper on Miller Street in Manchester, England. It was completed in 1962 and rises to 387 feet (118 m) in height. The Grade II listed building, which houses the Co-operative Banking Group, is Manchester's fifth-tallest building and the tallest office building in the United Kingdom outside London. The tower remained as built for over 40 years until maintenance issues on the service tower required an extensive renovation which included covering its facade in photovoltaic panels.

The office tower building rises above a five-storey podium block.

[[1983 Cricket World Cup]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 in sports, Cricket World Cup, Cricket in India, History of England, History of Wales, Sport in the United Kingdom

The 1983 Cricket World Cup (officially the Prudential Cup '83) was the 3rd edition of the Cricket World Cup tournament. It was held from 9 June to 25 June 1983 in England and Wales and was won by India. Eight countries participated in the event.

[[Kyle Korver]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 births, American basketball players, American Christians, Atlanta Hawks players, Chicago Bulls players, Cleveland Cavaliers players, Milwaukee Bucks players, Philadelphia 76ers players, Utah Jazz players, Basketball players from California, Sportspeople from Los Angeles County, California, Living people

Kyle Elliot Korver (born March 17, 1981) is an American professional basketball player for the Milwaukee Bucks of the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played college basketball for the Creighton Bluejays and was drafted in the second round of the 2003 NBA draft by the New Jersey Nets. He was immediately traded to the Philadelphia 76ers. After four and a half seasons in Philadelphia, he was traded to the Utah Jazz. During his first stint with the Jazz, in 2009–10, Korver shot 53.6 percent from three-point range, which set an NBA single-season three-point field goal accuracy record. In 2010, he joined the Chicago Bulls. In 2012, he was traded to the Atlanta Hawks, where in 2015, he was named NBA All-Star. In 2017, he was traded to the Cleveland Cavaliers, where he was a member of back-to-back Finals teams. In 2018, he was traded back to the Jazz.

[[Bluejacket, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Bluejacket is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Bokchito, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Bokchito is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Caddo, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Caddo is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Bokoshe, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Bokoshe is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Boswell, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Boswell is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Boynton, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Boynton is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Braggs, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Braggs is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Braman, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Braman is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Kildare, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Kildare is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Bray, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Bray is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Breckenridge, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Breckenridge is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Calera, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Calera is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Colbert, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Colbert is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Kemp, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Kemp is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Kenefic, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Kenefic is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Mead, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Mead is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Silo, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Silo is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Burbank, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Burbank is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Bromide, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Bromide is a city in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Calumet, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Calumet is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Brooksville, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Brooksville is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Byron, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Byron is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Jet, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Jet is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Colony, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Colony is a city in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Calvin, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Calvin is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Clark County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Clark County (county code CA) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,215 people lived there. Its county seat is Ashland. Ashland is also the biggest city in Clark County.

[[Marion County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Marion County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Marion County (standard abbreviation: MN) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 12,660 people lived there. The county seat is Marion. The county was named after Francis Marion, a Brigadier General of the American Revolutionary War, known as the "Swamp Fox".

[[Marshall County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory, Marshall County, Kansas

Marshall County (standard abbreviation: MS) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 10,117 people lived there. The county seat is Marysville. Marysville is also the biggest city in Marshall County.

[[Hodgeman County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Hodgeman County (county code HG) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 1,916 people lived there. Its county seat is Jetmore. Jetmore is also the biggest city in Hodgeman County.

[[Haskell County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1887 establishments in Kansas

Haskell County (county code HS) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 4,256 people lived there. Its county seat is Sublette. Sublette is also the biggest city in Haskell County.

[[Harper County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Harper County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Harper County (county code HP) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 6,034 people lived there. Its county seat is Anthony. Anthony is also the biggest city in Harper County. The county was named after Sergeant Marion Harper of the 2nd Kansas Cavalry. He died of wounds suffered near Waldron, Arkansas, in December 1863.

[[Hamilton County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Hamilton County (county code HM) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,690 people lived there. Its county seat is Syracuse. Syracuse is also the biggest city in Hamilton County. The county was created in 1873. It is named after Alexander Hamilton.

[[Greenwood County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Greenwood County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Greenwood County (county code GW) is a county in the southeast part of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 6,689 people lived there. Its county seat is Eureka. Eureka is also the biggest city in Greenwood County.

In 1855, Greenwood County was created. It was named after Alfred B. Greenwood, a U.S. Congressman from Arkansas.

The first railroad in Greenwood County was built through that territory in 1879.

[[Sheridan County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Sheridan County (standard abbreviation: SD) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,556 people lived there. Its county seat is Hoxie.  The county was named after Phillip H. Sheridan, a general of the American Civil War era.

[[Sherman County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1886 establishments in Kansas

Sherman County (standard abbreviation: SH) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 6,010 people lived there. Its county seat is Goodland. Sherman County was created by the Kansas Legislature in 1873. It is named after General William Tecumseh Sherman.

[[Kurdistan Vegans]]

CATEGORIES: Animal rights

Kurdistan Vegans is the first vegan nonprofit organization working for animal rights in Iraq. It was established on June 24, 2018, by Zanko Bakhshi and Zhiar Ali, in Erbil, Kurdistan Region of Iraq. The organization focuses on animal rights, and encourages environmental protection and choosing a healthy lifestyle by promoting veganism and abstaining from using animal products.

The organization had its first physical activity on November 1, 2018, on World Vegan Day in two cities of the Kurdistan region in Sulaymaniyah and Erbil. The events took place in Azadi Park in Sulaymaniyah and Sami Abdulrahman Park in Erbil and consisted of distributing pamphlet and booklets containing information about veganism and the vegan diet.

After and during the event, local TVs interviewed members of the organization and started shining a light on the philosophy of veganism.

[[Vizianagaram district]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s establishments in India, 1979 establishments in Asia, Districts of Andhra Pradesh

Vizianagaram district is one of the thirteen districts in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. The headquarters is Vizianagaram.

The French defeated and ended the rule of the Nizam in 1753. These districts were then part of French India.

[[Jacques Necker]]

CATEGORIES: 18th century in France, Finance

Jacques Necker was a banker from Geneva who became a finance minister for Louis XVI.

His dismissal on 1789 caused the Storming of the Bastille.

[[Léon M'ba]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1967 deaths, Presidents of Gabon, Prime Ministers of Gabon, Roman Catholics, Cancer deaths in France

Gabriel Léon M'ba (February 9, 1902 in Libreville - November 28, 1967 in Paris) was the first  President of Gabon (1960 - 1967). The surname is also written 'M'Ba' and 'Mba'.

He was a member of the Fang people ethnic group. He was prime minister from May 21, 1957 to February 21, 1961 and became president upon independence from France on August 17, 1960. He was briefly toppled by a military coup d'etat in February 1964, and Jean-Hilaire Aubame was installed as president, but was restored within days through French intervention.

M'ba was reelected in March 1967, but died in November of that year and was succeeded by his vice president, Albert-Bernard Bongo (now Omar Bongo Ondimba).

Gabon's main airport, the Leon M'ba International Airport, is named for him. On November 27, 2007 President Bongo Ondimba attended a ribbon-cutting ceremony for a newly built Mausoleum for M'ba in Libreville. 

[[Camargo, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Camargo is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Leedey, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Leedey is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Oakwood, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Oakwood is a town in Dewey County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 65 at the 2010 census.

[[Putnam, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Putnam is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Vici, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Vici is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Etowah, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Etowah is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Byng, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Byng is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Omar Bongo]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2009 deaths, African politicians, Converts to Islam, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Former Christians, Muslims, Freemasons, Presidents of Gabon, Vice presidents

El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba (born Albert-Bernard Bongo; 30 December 1935 – 8 June 2009) was a Gabonese politician who was President of Gabon for 42 years, from 1967 until his death in 2009. He was promoted to key positions as a young official under Gabon's first President Léon M'ba in the 1960s, before being elected Vice-President in his own right in 1966. In 1967, he succeeded M'ba to become the second President of Gabon, upon the latter's death.

Bongo died in hospital from a heart attack on 8 June 2009 in Barcelona, aged 73.

[[Fitzhugh, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Fitzhugh is a town of Pontotoc County in the state of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Francis, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Francis is a town in Pontotoc County, Oklahoma, United States.

[[IXL, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

IXL is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Castle, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Castle is a town of Oklahoma, in the United States. It is in Okfuskee County.

[[Norge, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Norge is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Buffalo, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma, County seats in Oklahoma

Buffalo is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is the county seat of Harper County.

[[Cole, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Cole is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Byars, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Byars is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Burlington, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Burlington is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is in Alfalfa County. As of the 2010 census, 152 people lived in this town.

The town is an agricultural center.

[[Burns Flat, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Burns Flat is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Butler, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Butler is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Terral, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Terral is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Cornish, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Cornish is a town of Oklahoma, in the United States.

[[WASP]]

CATEGORIES: Social groups, United States

WASP: an acronym for White Anglo-Saxon Protestant. They are a social group of white protestants in the United States. They are often of British descent, and typically wealthy and well-connected. 

They are not so influential as they were.  However, WASPs are still well placed in major financial, business and legal firms, and in universities.

[[Osborne County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Osborne County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Osborne County (standard abbreviation: OB) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 3,858 people lived there. The county seat is Osborne. Osborne is also the biggest city in Osborne County.

[[Osage County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Osage County, Kansas, 1859 establishments in Kansas Territory

Osage County (county code OS) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 16,295 people lived there. Its county seat is Lyndon. Its most populous city is Osage City. The county was originally organized in 1855 as Weller County, and was renamed in 1859 after the Osage River that runs through it, which is itself named for the Osage Native American Tribe.

[[Comanche County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Comanche County, Kansas

Comanche County (county code CM) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 1,891 people lived there. Its county seat is Coldwater. Coldwater is also the biggest city in Comanche County. Comanche county is named after the Comanche Native Americans.

[[Gracemont, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Gracemont is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Eakly, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Eakly is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Cloud County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Cloud County, Kansas

Cloud County (county code CD) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 9,533 people lived there. Its county seat is Concordia. Concordia is also the biggest city in Cloud County.

[[Coffey County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Coffey County (county code CF) is a county in Eastern Kansas. In 2010, 8,601 people lived there. Its county seat is Burlington. Burlington is also the biggest city in Coffey County.

[[Kearny County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kearny County, Kansas, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Kearny County (county code KE) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 3,977 people lived there. Its county seat is Lakin. Lakin is also the biggest city in Kearny County. The county is named after General Philip Kearny.

[[Cameron, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Cameron is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Fort Coffee, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Fort Coffee is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Clayton, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Clayton is a town in Pushmataha County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 1,012 at the 2010 census.

It is found at 34 (34.587698, -95.357077).

[[Kingman County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1872 establishments in Kansas

Kingman County (standard abbreviation: KM) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 7,858 people lived there. The county seat is Kingman. Kingman is also the biggest city in Kingman County.

[[Kiowa County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kiowa County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas, Kansas counties

Kiowa County (standard abbreviation: KW) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,553 people lived there. The largest city and county seat is Greensburg.

[[Woodson County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Woodson County (standard abbreviation: WO) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010 census, 3,309 people lived there. Its county seat is Yates Center.

[[Washington County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Washington County, Kansas, 1857 establishments in Kansas Territory

Washington County (standard abbreviation: WS) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 5,799 people lived there. Its county seat is Washington. Washington is also the biggest city in Washington County.

[[Wabaunsee County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Wabaunsee County, Kansas, 1859 establishments in Kansas Territory

Wabaunsee County (standard abbreviation: WB) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 7,053 people lived there. Its county seat is Alma. The county was created by the territorial legislature of Kansas Territory on March 25, 1859. It was named after a chief of the Potawatomi Indians.

[[Wallace County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1868 establishments in Kansas

Wallace County (standard abbreviation: WA) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010 census, 1,485 people lived there. This would make it the county in Kansas with the second-least number of people living in it. Its county seat is Sharon Springs. The county was created in 1868. It was named after Brigadier general W.H.L. Wallace, who was a veteran of the Mexican–American War and a casualty of the Battle of Shiloh.

[[Morris County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1859 establishments in Kansas Territory

Morris County (standard abbreviation: MR) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 5,923 people lived there. The county seat is Council Grove. Council Grove is also the biggest city in Morris County.

[[Morton County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1886 establishments in Kansas

Morton County (standard abbreviation: MT) is a county in the southwestern corner of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 3,233 people lived there. The county seat is Elkhart. Elkhart is also the biggest city in Morton County.

[[Nemaha County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Nemaha County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Nemaha County (standard abbreviation: NM) is a county in the northeastern part of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 10,178 people lived there. The county seat is Seneca.

[[Wilson County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory, Wilson County, Kansas

Wilson County (standard abbreviation: WL) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 9,409 people lived there. Its county seat is Fredonia.

[[John Minto]]

CATEGORIES: 1950s births, Living people

John Minto (born in 1953) is a Retired Science Teacher at Hornby High School in Christchurch, New Zealand and Former activist During the Springbok Tour. In 1969 John Minto was the Chairman of H.A.R.T (Halt All Racist Tours) a Group to stop the South African Rugby Team Tours of New Zealand. Even police batons were named after Minto, called "Minto Bars". In 2016 John Minto ran for Mayor of Christchurch. Minto had received 13,117 votes, and lost the election.

[[Fukuiraptor]]

CATEGORIES: Dinosaurs of Asia, Theropods, Cretaceous dinosaurs

Fukuiraptor ("thief of Fukui") was a medium-sized theropod dinosaur of the Lower Cretaceous. The fossil was found in the Kitadani Quarry, Fukui Prefecture, Japan. A reconstructed fossil is exhibited in the Fukui Prefectural Dinosaur Museum, Japan.

[[Dot Island]]

CATEGORIES: Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands

Dot Island is a tiny island in the sub-Antarctic. It is 0.6 nautical miles (1.1 km) west of Tern Island in the south part of the Bay of Isles, South Georgia. It was first charted by Robert Cushman Murphy in 1912–13. It was surveyed in 1929–30 by Discovery Investigations personnel. They probably named it because of its size and small appearance on charts.

[[2015 Ankara bombings]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 in Asia, 2010s explosions in Asia, Ankara, Crime in Turkey, Explosions in 2015, Islamic State, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2015, Islamic terrorist incidents in Asia, Mass murder in 2015, Mass murder in Asia, October 2015 events, Suicide bombings in Asia, Suicide bombings in the 2010s, Terrorist incidents in Asia in the 2010s

On 10 October 2015 in Ankara, Turkey, two suicide bombers detonated their bombs outside Ankara railway station. About 100 people were killed.

[[Yogi Adityanath]]

CATEGORIES: 1972 births, Living people, Indian Hindus, Bharatiya Janata Party politicians, Monks, Politicians from Uttar Pradesh

Mahant Yogi Adityanath (birth name Ajay Singh Bisht; 5th June 1972) is a Hindu monk and Indian politician who is the current Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh.

[[Fatsia]]

CATEGORIES: Asterids

Fatsia is a small genus of three species of evergreen shrubs in the Araliaceae family. They are native to southern Japan and Taiwan. 

It has also become naturalised in some areas. In New Zealand it has become established in waste areas and abandoned gardens, spreading by suckers.

[[Trivendra Singh Rawat]]

CATEGORIES: Indian politicians

Trivendra Singh Rawat (born 20 December 1960) is an Indian politician and is the eighth and current Chief Minister of Uttarakhand.

[[Qatna]]

CATEGORIES: Archaeological sites in Syria, Assyria, Cities in Syria, Former monarchies of Asia

Qatna is an ancient city west of Hammurabi's empire. It remained independent.

[[Wichita County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1886 establishments in Kansas

Wichita County (standard abbreviation: WH) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010 census, 2,234 people lived there. Its county seat is Leoti.

[[Trego County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1879 establishments in Kansas

Trego County (standard abbreviation: TR) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 3,001 people lived there. Its county seat is WaKeeney. WaKeeney is also the biggest city in Trego County.

[[Thomas County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Thomas County, Kansas, 1885 establishments in Kansas

Thomas County (standard abbreviation: TH) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010 census, 7,900 people lived there. Its county seat is Colby.

[[Stanton County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1887 establishments in Kansas

Stanton County (standard abbreviation: ST) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,235 people lived there. Its county seat is Johnson City.

[[Stafford County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1879 establishments in Kansas

Stafford County (standard abbreviation: SF) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 4,437 people lived there. Its county seat is St. John. The county is named after Lewis Stafford. He was captain of Company E, First Kansas Infantry, who was killed at the Battle of Young's Point in Madison Parish, Louisiana on June 7, 1863.

[[Harish Rawat]]

CATEGORIES: Indian politicians, 1948 births, Living people

Harish Chandra Singh Rawat (born 27 April 1948) is an Indian politician who was  Chief Minister of Uttarakhand from 2014-2017. In July 2014, he won a by-election from Dharchula assembly seat by over 19,000 votes.

[[Smith County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1872 establishments in Kansas, Smith County, Kansas

Smith County (standard abbreviation: SM) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 3,853 people lived there. Its county seat is Smith Center. The county is named after Maj. J. Nelson Smith, who was part of the 2nd Colorado Cavalry. He was killed in action at the Battle of Westport on October 21, 1864.

The geographic center of the contiguous United States is in the county, near Lebanon.

[[Labette County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1867 establishments in Kansas, Labette County, Kansas

Labette County (county code LB) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 21,607 people lived there. Its county seat is Oswego. Its biggest city is Parsons. The county was named after LaBette creek, the second-biggest creek in the county. The creek was named after French-Canadian fur trapper Pierre LaBette who had moved to the area.

[[Lane County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Lane County (standard abbreviation: LE) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,150 people lived there. This makes it the county with the third lowest number of people living in it in Kansas. The county seat is Dighton, the only city in the county. The county was named after James H. Lane. He was a leader of the Jayhawker abolitionist movement, and he was one of the first U.S. Senators from Kansas.

[[Lincoln County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Lincoln County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Lincoln County (standard abbreviation: LC) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 3,241 people lived there. The county seat is Lincoln Center. Lincoln Center is also the biggest city in Lincoln County.

[[Devika Singh]]

CATEGORIES: Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Devika Singh is an Indian television actress. She began her acting debut in Colors TV's Bepanah Pyaaras Sukanya Rai Sighania.

[[Bipin Rawat]]

CATEGORIES: Indian military people, 1958 births, Living people, Uttarakhand

General Bipin Rawat, PVSM, UYSM, AVSM, YSM, SM, VSM, ADC is the current Chief of the Defence Staff of the Indian Armed Forces and the former Chief of Army Staff of the Indian Army. He became Chief of Army Staff on 31 December 2016 after retirement of General Dalbir Singh.

[[Linn County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Linn County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Linn County (county code LN) is a county in east-central Kansas. In 2010, 9,656 people lived there. Its county seat is Mound City. Its biggest city is Pleasanton. The county was named after Lewis F. Linn, a U.S. Senator from Missouri.

[[Logan County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1887 establishments in Kansas

Logan County (standard abbreviation: LG) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas.  In 2010, 2,756 people lived there. The county seat is Oakley. Oakley is also the biggest city in Logan County. The county was named after Gen. John A. Logan.

One of the county's most unique features is a mile long stretch of Niobrara Formation rocks. The rocks reach 100 feet high. They are called "Little Jerusalem." It is related to the same geology that formed the Badlands National Park.  The formation is mostly on private land. In 2016, the Nature Conservancy bought the land, and they say they will open the area to the public.

[[Unmukt Chand]]

CATEGORIES: 1993 births, Living people, Indian cricketers, People from New Delhi

Unmukt Chand (born 26 March 1993) is an Indian cricketer. He is a right-hand batsman who usually opens the batting. Chand took his India Under-19 cricket team team to the U-19 Cricket World Cup victory in 2012. He scored an 111 not out in the final against Australia in Townsville, and got the praise of Australian great batsman Ian Chappell.

[[Lyon County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: 1862 establishments in Kansas, Lyon County, Kansas

Lyon County (standard abbreviation: LY) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 33,690 people lived there. The county seat Emporia. Emporia is also the biggest city in Lyon County. The county was named after General Nathaniel Lyon, who was killed at the Battle of Wilson's Creek in the American Civil War.

[[Neosho County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1861 establishments in Kansas

Neosho County (standard abbreviation: NO) is a county in the south east of the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 16,512 people lived there. The county seat is Erie.

[[Ness County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Ness County, Kansas, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Ness County (standard abbreviation: NS) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 3,107 people lived there. The county seat is Ness City. Ness City is also the biggest city in Ness County.  The county was named after Corporal Noah V. Ness of the 7th Kansas Cavalry.

[[Norton County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1867 establishments in Kansas

Norton County (standard abbreviation: NT) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 5,671 people lived there. The county seat is Norton. Norton is also the biggest city in Norton County. The county was created in 1867. It was named after Orloff Norton, captain of Company L, 15th Kansas Militia Infantry Regiment.

[[Gray County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Gray County, Kansas, 1881 establishments in Kansas

Gray County (county code GY) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 6,006 people lived there. Its county seat is Cimarron. Cimarron is also the biggest city in Gray County.

[[Grant County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1873 establishments in Kansas

Grant County (county code GT) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 7,829 people lived there. Its county seat and only city is Ulysses.

[[Graham County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Graham County, Kansas, 1887 establishments in Kansas

Graham County (county code GH) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,597 people lived there. Its county seat is Hill City. Hill City is also the biggest city in Graham County. Nicodemus is in Graham County. Nicodemus was created in 1877, which is the only remaining western town created by African Americans during the Reconstruction Period after the American Civil War.

[[Gove County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1868 establishments in Kansas

Gove County (county code GO) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,695 people lived there. Its county seat is Gove City. Its biggest city is Quinter.

[[Elk County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1875 establishments in Kansas

Elk County (county code EK) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010, 2,882 people lived there. Its county seat is Howard. Howard is also the biggest city in Elk County.

[[Edwards County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Kansas counties, 1874 establishments in Kansas

Edwards County (county code ED) is a county in the U.S. states of Kansas. In 2010, 3,037 people lived there. Its county seat is Kinsley. Kinsley is also the biggest city in Edwards County. The county was created in 1874. It was named after W. C. Edwards, of Hutchinson, a pioneer settler, who played an active role in its creation.

[[Doniphan County, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Doniphan County, Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Doniphan County (county code DP) is a county in the U.S. state of Kansas. In 2010 census, 7,945 people lived there. Its county seat is Troy. Its  biggest city is Wathena.

[[Elizabeth Lane]]

CATEGORIES: 1905 births, 1988 deaths

Dame Elizabeth Kathleen Lane DBE (née Coulborn; 9 August 1905 - 17 June 1988) was a British judge. In 1965, she became the first woman to be appointed a High Court judge in England and Wales.

She received a damehood when she was appointed to the High Court. She had previously been the third woman to be made Queen's Counsel in 1950. She retired as a judge in 1979.

[[Rose Heilbron]]

CATEGORIES: 1914 births, 2005 deaths, British lawyers, Knights and Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire, Deaths from pneumonia, Infectious disease deaths in England

Dame Rose Heilbron DBE QC (19 August 1914 - 8 December 2005) was a British lawyer and judge. In 1949, she became one of the first women to be appointed Queen's Counsel in Britain.

She graduated from Liverpool University in 1935, and became a lawyer in 1939. She was made Queen's Counsel in 1949, and was made a full-time judge in the High Court in 1974. She retired as a judge in 1988.

[[Helena Normanton]]

CATEGORIES: 1882 births, 1957 deaths

Helena Florence Normanton QC (14 December 1882 - 14 October 1957) was a British lawyer. She was the first woman to practice as a lawyer in England (1922), and was one of the first women to be made Queen's Counsel (1949).

[[Right of survivorship]]

CATEGORIES: Property

The right of survivorship is a right attached to an asset such as a home or a bank account which is jointly owned. When one of the owners dies, the surviving owner(s) get the asset. The asset is then excluded from the estate. In other words it is not part of the  will of the person who died. It becomes the property of the surviving owner(s).

[[College town]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities, Settlements

A college town or university town is a place (often a town or city) that has a college or university that is an important part of that place. The university may be a very big part of the place's economy and culture, and there may be a lot of students living there. Many residents may work for the university, the university may be the biggest employer, and many businesses may work with the university.

[[John Trumbull]]

CATEGORIES: 1756 births, 1843 deaths, American artists

John Trumbull (ˈ; June 6, 1756sndNovember 10, 1843) was an American artist during the American Revolutionary War. He created many historical paintings. He has been called The Painter of the Revolution. 

Trumbull's Declaration of Independence (1817), one of his four paintings which hang in the United States Capitol Rotunda, was used on the reverse the two-dollar bill.

[[Sousaphone]]

CATEGORIES: Brass instruments

The sousaphone (US) is a brass instrument in the same family as the more widely known tuba. Created around 1893 by J.W. Pepper at the direction of American bandleader John Philip Sousa (after whom the instrument was then named), it was designed to be easier to play than the concert tuba while standing or marching. It should also carry the sound of the instrument above the heads of the band. Like the tuba, sound is produced by moving air past the lips, causing them to vibrate or "buzz" into a large cupped mouthpiece. Unlike the tuba, the instrument is bent in a circle to fit around the body of the musician; it ends in a large, flaring bell that is pointed forward, projecting the sound ahead of the player. Because of the ease of carrying and the direction of sound, it is widely employed in marching bands, as well as various other musical genres. Sousaphones were originally made out of brass but in the mid-20th century started to be made from lighter materials like fiberglass; today both types are in wide use.

[[British .303]]

CATEGORIES: Ammunition, Military cartridges, Pistol and rifle cartridges

The British .303 (three-o-three) cartridge was the bullet used for British rifles and light machine guns until Britain became part of NATO. Guns that used the .303 included the Lee-Enfield and the Bren light machine gun.

[[Lisa (rapper)]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, Living people, K-pop singers, Blackpink members, Thai singers, Models, Rap musicians

Lalisa Manoban is a Thai rapper, signer, dancer, and model. She is based in South Korea and goes by the stage name Lisa. She is known for being a member of Blackpink, which as of 2019 is the highest-charting female k-pop group. She is also active as a fashion model and has appeared solo on the cover of Harper's Bazaar in Thailand. Lisa is also well known on social media. She is the most followed k-pop singer on Instagram, with 49 million followers.

Lisa was born in Thailand on 27 March 1997. In 2010, she auditioned in Thailand with YG Entertainment.  She was invited to join them and was eventually added to Blackpink.

[[Istanbul nightclub shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 mass shootings, 2017 murders in Europe, 2010s in Turkey, 2010s mass shootings in Europe, Attacks on buildings and structures in 2017, Attacks on buildings and structures in Europe, Attacks on nightclubs, Crime in Turkey, Islamic State, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2017, Istanbul, January 2017 events, Mass murder in 2017, Mass murder in Europe, Terrorist incidents in Europe in 2017

the Istanbul nightclub shooting was a mass shooting in the early hours of 1 January 2017 in the European part of Istanbul, Turkey. Uzbek ISIL member Abdulkadir Masharipov used an AK-47 assault rifle to shoot over 100 people in Reina nightclub, killing 39 of them.

[[Eric Prydz]]

CATEGORIES: DJs, Swedish people, Living people, Year of birth missing (living people)

Eric Prydz is a Swedish DJ and producer best known for his 2004 hit single "Call On Me" which topped the UK singles charts for 4 weeks.

[[Halsey]]

Halsey may mean:

[[Negroland]]

CATEGORIES: History of Africa

Negroland, or Nigritia was a term Europeans used to describe a region in Africa, south of the Sahara. The region was poorly explored, and Europeans mainly knew the area around the coast. The name was probably a direct translation of the Arabic term "Bilad al-Sudan", which translates to "land of the Blacks".

As can be seen on the map, Europeans of the time believed that the rivers Senegal, Gambia and Niger were in the same river system: one river that divided before flowing into the ocean.  

In 1823, approximately the same area was described as "Nigritia" on an American map published by  Fielding Lucus Jr. The inhabitants of Nigritia were called Negroes. 

[[Canton, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Canton is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Chambers County]]

Chambers County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Coos County]]

Coos County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Windham County]]

Windham County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Wabash County]]

Wabash County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Lowndes County]]

Lowndes County is the name of three counties in the United States:

[[McHenry County]]

McHenry County is the name of two counties in the United States:

[[Hydro, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Hydro is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Okeene, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Okeene is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Helena, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Helena is a town in Oklahoma, United States.

[[Clearview, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Clearview is a town in Oklahoma, United States.

[[Paden, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Paden is a town in Oklahoma, United States.

[[Weleetka, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Weleetka is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is found about 10 southeast of Okemah, the county seat.

[[Canadian, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Canadian is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Caney, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Caney is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It can be found in Atoka County.

[[Stringtown, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Stringtown is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It can be found in Atoka County.

[[Tushka, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Tushka is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is in Atoka County.

[[Lane, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Oklahoma, Unincorporated communities in Oklahoma

Lane is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) of Oklahoma in the United States. It is in Atoka County.

[[Dotyville, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Oklahoma

Dotyville is a census-designated place (CDP) in Oklahoma in the United States. It is in Ottawa County.

[[Sunflower County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1840s establishments in Mississippi, 1844 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Sunflower County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 29,450 people lived there. Indianola is the largest city and county seat. It is in the Mississippi Delta region.

Sunflower County was created in 1844.

[[Colby, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Thomas County, Kansas, County seats in Kansas, 1885 establishments in Kansas

Colby is a city in Thomas County, Kansas, United States. It is also the county seat of Thomas County. In 2010, 5,387 people lived there.

[[Ulysses, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Kansas, County seats in Kansas

Ulysses (pronounced j) is a city in and the county seat of Grant County, Kansas, United States. It is named after Ulysses S. Grant, the 18th President of the United States. In 2010, 6,161 people lived there.

[[Paola, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Miami County, Kansas, County seats in Kansas, 1855 establishments in Kansas Territory

Paola p is a city in Miami County, Kansas, United States. It is also the county seat. In 2010, 5,602 people lived there.

[[Iola, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: County seats in Kansas, 1859 establishments in Kansas Territory, Cities in Allen County, Kansas

Iola (pronounced aɪ) is a city along the Neosho River in the northwestern part of Allen County, in southeast Kansas, in the central United States. In 2010, 5,704 people lived there. Iola is the county seat of Allen County. It is named after Iola Colborn.

[[Canute, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Canute is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Capron, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Capron is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Dacoma, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Dacoma is a town of the state of Oklahoma, in the United States.

[[Carney, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Carney is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Lee County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 19th-century establishments in Mississippi, 1866 establishments in the United States, Mississippi counties

Lee County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 82,910 people lived there. Its county seat is Tupelo.

[[Aladdin al-Ayyubi]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births

Aladdin al-Ayyubi (Arabic:علاء الدين الأيوبي)(Born 1958) is a Syrian TV presenter. He died of a heart attack while he was working at his office in Damascus at the age of 57.     

[[Glasgow, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Virginia

Glasgow is a town of West Virginia in the United States.

[[Cairo, West Virginia]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in West Virginia

Cairo is a town of West Virginia in the United States.

[[Cement, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Cement is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Carrier, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Carrier is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Douglas, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Douglas is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Carter, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Carter is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Sweetwater, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Sweetwater is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is in both Beckham and Roger Mills counties.

[[Texola, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Texola is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Kansas, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Kansas is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. According to the US 2010 census, there were 802 people living there. 

[[West Siloam Springs, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

West Siloam Springs is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Armistead, Louisiana]]

CATEGORIES: Unincorporated communities in Red River Parish, Louisiana

Armistead is an unincorporated community in Red River Parish, Louisiana, United States.

[[Cimarron City, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Cimarron City is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Hardesty, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Hardesty is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Goodwell, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Goodwell is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Grainola, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Grainola is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Osage, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Osage is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Fairfax, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Fairfax is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[El Segundo, California]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in California, Settlements in Los Angeles County, California

El Segundo is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States.

[[Greenville, Texas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Texas, County seats in Texas

Greenville is a city of Texas in the United States. It is the county seat of Hunt County.

[[Haskell, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Haskell is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Lincoln County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1870 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Lincoln County is a county in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 34,869 people lived there. Its county seat is Brookhaven. The county was created on April 7, 1870 and named for Abraham Lincoln, 16th President of the United States (1861–1865).

[[Cyril, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Cyril is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Lincoln County, New Mexico]]

CATEGORIES: New Mexico counties

Lincoln County is a county in the state of New Mexico in the United States. As of the 2010 census, 20,497 people lived there. The county seat is Carrizozo, and the largest community is Ruidoso.

[[Lincoln County, Georgia]]

CATEGORIES: 1796 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state), Georgia (U.S. state) counties

Lincoln County is a county in the U.S. state of Georgia. As of the 2010 census, 7,996 people lived there. The county seat is Lincolnton.

[[Cashion, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Cashion is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Sevastopol Naval Base]]

CATEGORIES: Military of Russia, History of the Soviet Union, Establishments in Russia, 21st century in Ukraine, Ports and harbours of Europe

The Sevastopol Naval Base is a naval base located in Sevastopol, Crimea. It the main base of Russian Navy's Black Sea Fleet.

[[Node of Ranvier]]

CATEGORIES: Nervous system

Nodes of Ranvier are gaps in the myelin sheath of a nerve cell's  axon. They have multiple ion channels, allowing ions to move in or out of the axon at those points.

This means the gaps are not insulated from the spaces which surround them (the intracellular space). When impulses move along an axon, they will seem to "jump" from one node to the next along the axon. This is known as saltatory conduction (Latin saltare "to hop or leap").

[[14 October 2017 Mogadishu bombings]]

CATEGORIES: 2017 in Africa, 2010s explosions in Africa, 2010s murders in Africa, 21st century in Somalia, Al-Shabaab (militant group), Attacks on buildings and structures in 2017, Building bombings in Africa, Explosions in 2017, Islamic terrorist incidents in 2017, Islamic terrorist incidents in Africa, Mass murder in 2017, Mass murder in Africa, October 2017 events, Suicide bombings in Africa, Suicide bombings in the 2010s, Suicide car and truck bombings, Terrorist incidents in Africa in the 2010s

On 14 October 2017, a suicide truck bomb killed 587 people in Mogadishu. It was Somalia's worst terrorist attack.

In the same city on the same day, a car bombing killed two people and a minivan exploded without casualties. 

[[Yang di-Pertuan Agong]]

CATEGORIES: History of Malaysia

The Yang di-Pertuan Agong (literally 'He Who is Made Lord', Jawi: يڠ دڤرتوان اݢوڠ), also known as the Supreme Head or the King, is the monarch and head of state of Malaysia. The office was created in 1957, when the Federation of Malaya (now Malaysia) gained independence from the United Kingdom. Malaysia is a constitutional monarchy with an elected monarch as head of state. The Yang di-Pertuan Agong is one of the few elected monarchs in the world. The Yang di-Pertuan Agong is a ruling Sultan of a Malaysian state, and is elected for a term of five years.

In Malaysia's constitutional monarchy, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong has extensive powers within the constitution on paper. The constitution specifies that the executive power of the Federal government is given to the Yang di-Pertuan Agong. However, he is bound to exercise this power on the advice of the Cabinet or a minister acting under Cabinet authority. The Cabinet is headed by the prime minister, appointed by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong from among the elected members of Parliament. Among them, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong has discretionary powers to choose who he wants as the Prime Minister and is not bound by the decision of the outgoing prime minister if no party has won a majority vote (Article 40). It, however, does not afford him the right and authority to dismiss the prime minister. He also can dismiss or withhold consent to a request for the dissolution of Parliament (Article 40). He may discontinue or dissolve Parliament (Article 55) but he can only dissolve Parliament at the request of the Prime Minister (Article 43). He can reject any new laws or amendments to existing laws but if he still withholds permission, it will automatically become law after 30 days from the initial submission to him (Article 66). The queen consort for the Yang di-Pertuan Agong is known as the Raja Permaisuri Agong and the couple are styled in English as "His Majesty" and "Her Majesty".

The 16th and current Yang di-Pertuan Agong is Al-Sultan Abdullah of Pahang, replacing Sultan Muhammad V of Kelantan, who abdicated on 6 January 2019. He was elected on 24 January, at a special meeting of the Conference of Rulers. He took the oath of office and was sworn in at the Istana Negara on 31 January.

[[Brian Westbrook]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, American football running backs, Living people, Sportspeople from Washington, D.C., Philadelphia Eagles players, San Francisco 49ers players

Brian Collins Westbrook (born September 2, 1979) is a former American football running back who played for nine seasons in the National Football League (NFL). He was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the third round of the 2002 NFL Draft after playing college football for Villanova University. Following an eight-year career with the Eagles, in which he earned two Pro Bowl selections in 2004 and 2007, Westbrook signed with the San Francisco 49ers, for whom he played in 2010.

[[Koy Detmer]]

CATEGORIES: 1973 births, American football quarterbacks, Living people, Sportspeople from San Antonio, Texas, Philadelphia Eagles players

Koy Dennis Detmer (born July 5, 1973) is a former American football quarterback. He was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the seventh round of the 1997 NFL Draft.  He played college football at Colorado. He is the younger brother of former NFL quarterback Ty Detmer.

[[List of Sultans of Brunei]]

CATEGORIES: Sultans, Brunei

[[Jeff Garcia]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, American football quarterbacks, Cleveland Browns players, Detroit Lions players, Houston Texans players, Oakland Raiders players, Philadelphia Eagles players, San Francisco 49ers players, Tampa Bay Buccaneers players, Sportspeople from California, Living people

Jeffrey Jason Garcia (born February 24, 1970) is a former American football and Canadian football quarterback. After attending high school and junior college in Gilroy, California, Garcia played college football at San Jose State University.

A four-time CFL All-Star and four-time NFL Pro Bowl selection, Garcia began his professional football career with the Calgary Stampeders of the Canadian Football League (CFL) as an undrafted free agent in 1994. In 1999, Garcia debuted in the National Football League (NFL) with the San Francisco 49ers. With the 49ers, Garcia made three Pro Bowl appearances (for the 2000, 2001, and 2002 seasons) and led the team to the playoffs in the 2001 and 2002 seasons. Afterwards, Garcia encountered a low point in his career, starting with a lackluster 2003 season with San Francisco then two losing seasons with the Cleveland Browns in 2004 and the Detroit Lions in 2005. With the Philadelphia Eagles, Garcia returned to form late in the 2006 season, starting for an injured Donovan McNabb and leading Philadelphia to the playoffs. Garcia joined the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 2007 and was the starting quarterback for most games of the 2007 and 2008 seasons. Again, Garcia led Tampa Bay to the playoffs in 2007 and made his fourth career Pro Bowl appearance.

After his stint with Tampa, Garcia returned to the Philadelphia Eagles in 2009 and played only one game.

[[David Carr (American football)]]

CATEGORIES: 1979 births, American football quarterbacks, Carolina Panthers players, Houston Texans players, New York Giants players, San Francisco 49ers players, Sportspeople from California, People from Bakersfield, California, Living people

David Duke Carr (born July 21, 1979) is a former American football quarterback who played in the National Football League (NFL). He was drafted by the Houston Texans first overall in the 2002 NFL Draft. He played college football at Fresno State. Carr also played professionally for the Carolina Panthers, New York Giants, and San Francisco 49ers. He received a Super Bowl ring as a backup for the Giants after their victory over the New England Patriots in Super Bowl XLVI. Carr's status as a number one draft pick and subsequent career has led to him being considered a draft bust.

[[Big Blue River (Kansas)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Kansas, Rivers of Nebraska

The Big Blue River is the biggest tributary of the Kansas River. The river is about 359 long. It goes from central Nebraska into Kansas, until its confluence with the Kansas River at Manhattan.

Its name was given from the Kansa tribe of Native Americans. They lived at its mouth from 1780 to 1830. They called it the Great Blue Earth River.

[[Guam rail]]

CATEGORIES: Flightless birds

A Guam rail (Hypotaenidia owstoni) is a bird that is only found in Guam, it is extinct in the wild.

[[Pacific Data Images]]

CATEGORIES: American animation studios, 1980 establishments in the United States, 2015 disestablishments in the United States, Defunct companies of the United States

Pacific Data Images (PDI) was an American computer animation production company that was bought by DreamWorks SKG in 2000. It was renamed PDI/DreamWorks and was owned by DreamWorks Animation.

Founded in 1980 by Carl Rosendahl, PDI was one of the pioneers of computer animation. It produced over 700 commercials, contributed visual effects to more than 70 feature movies, and produced and contributed to many DreamWorks Animation's movies, including the second computer-animated movie ever, Antz, and movies from the Shrek and Madagascar franchises

[[Antz]]

CATEGORIES: 1990s adventure movies, 1990s computer-animated movies, 1990s fantasy movies, 1998 comedy movies, 1998 animated movies, American adventure movies, American animated movies, American comedy movies, American family movies, American fantasy movies, Turkish movies, DreamWorks Animation movies, DreamWorks Pictures movies, English-language movies, Movies about animals, Movies composed by Harry Gregson-Williams, Movies composed by John Powell, Movies set in the United States

Antz is a computer animated movie made by DreamWorks Animation. It stars Woody Allen, Sharon Stone, Jennifer Lopez, Sylvester Stallone, Christopher Walken, Dan Aykroyd, Anne Bancroft, Danny Glover and Gene Hackman. Some of the main characters share facial similarities with the actors. It is the first movie to be released by DreamWorks Pictures and the third feature-length computer-animated film after Toy Story.

[[The Paul Daniels Magic Show]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s British television series, 1980s British television series, 1990s British television series, BBC Television programmes

The Paul Daniels Magic Show was a British magic show that aired on BBC1 from 9 June 1979 to 18 June 1994.  The show was presented by entertainer and magician Paul Daniels and his assistant Debbie McGee  whom he married in 1988.

[[Argentine National Museum of History]]

CATEGORIES: Museums, Buenos Aires

Argentine National Historical Museum is a museum in Buenos Aires, Argentina. It is dedicated to the history of Argentina. It has exhibits and objects related to the May Revolution and the Argentine War of Independence.

[[Allegro]]

CATEGORIES: Classical music

Allegro is a tempo marking for classical music. It says that the music is to be played moderately fast. At first, it was also used to describe the character of a piece, but since the 18th centrury, it is mainly used for the speed. It is faster than Andante, but slower than Presto. Sometimes, the term is translated: Composers such as Claude Debussy and Maurice Ravel used the word vite, Gustav Mahler wrote Rasch, and Benjamin Britten wrote Quickly. Most people say that piece that is played allegro should generally be played at speeds of between 120 and 168 beats per minute. 

Sometimes Allegro is used in the title of musical pieces, for example the Allegro barbaro by Bela Bartok.

[[Libby Lane]]

CATEGORIES: 1966 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Oxford, Anglican bishops, Anglican priests, English Anglicans, English priests, People from Buckinghamshire

Elizabeth Jane Holden Lane (born 8 December 1966), known as Libby Lane, is an English priest and bishop in the Church of England. She was born in Buckinghamshire.

She studied at the University of Oxford, graduating in 1989. She was ordained as a deacon in 1993, and became a priest the following year. She was one of the first women to be made a priest in the Church of England.

When the Church of England voted to allow women bishops, she became the first woman to be consecrated as a bishop in January 2015. She became the Bishop of Stockport in the Diocese of Chester. In February 2019, she became the Bishop of Derby.

[[FATCA agreement between Canada and the United States]]

CATEGORIES: Canada, United States federal legislation, Finance, Taxation, International law, Banks

The FACTA agreement is an agreement between Canada and the United States that allows the United States to exercise financial control over American citizens and other US persons who are resident in Canada. According to this agreement the Canadian tax authorities provide very detailed financial information regarding such people to the American tax authorities.

FATCA was intended to catch tax-cheats, but ended up affecting all Americans living outside  of the United States. There are about one million Americans living in Canada. FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act) was enacted in 2010, under the Obama administration. The agreement with Canada was concluded in February 2014 when Stephen Harper was Prime Minister of Canada. Americans include, for the purpose of this agreement, "accidental Americans", their non-American families and business partners, and former non-American residents of the United States.

Many other countries have signed similar FATCA agreements with the United States. These agreements affect all US persons residing in those countries.

FATCA requires US persons to report to the IRS (Internal Revenue Service) the balances of all bank  accounts they hold outside of the United States every year. This is done through special forms which all US persons must file in addition to the other tax forms which such people must file every year even if they do not reside in the United States.The CRA (Canada Revenue Agency) collects this information from all Canadian banks and transfers this information to the United States.

[[Home Nations]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the United Kingdom, Political geography, Politics of the United Kingdom, Sport in England, Sport in Ireland, Sport in Northern Ireland, Sport in Scotland, Sport in Wales, Sport in the Republic of Ireland, Sport in the United Kingdom, Subdivisions of the United Kingdom

A home nation is one of the four countries that make up the United Kingdom. They are; England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

[[Cambroraster]]

CATEGORIES: Fossils, Cambrian

Cambroraster falcatus is a stem group (ancestral) arthropod.

Hundreds of specimens were found in the Burgess Shale. It was a large animal (for its day): it was up to 30nbspcm long. It had a horseshoe-shaped carapace, and probably fed by sifting through the sediment with its round mouth lined with hooked spines.

This predator  lived more than 500 million years ago. Its fossil has been discovered in Kootenay National Park  in the Canadian Rockies. 

Cambroraster falcatus is perhaps ancestral to insects, crabs and spiders. The fossils were discovered by palaeontologists from the Royal Ontario Museum and University of Toronto.

[[Chouteau, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Chouteau is a town in the state of Oklahoma, in the United States.

[[Sportsmen Acres, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Sportsmen Acres is a town of the state of Oklahoma, in the United States.

[[Spavinaw, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Spavinaw is a town in Mayes County, Oklahoma, United States. According to 2010 census, there were 437 people living there. It was lower by  22.4 percent from 563 at the 2000 census. Baseball player Mickey Mantle was born here.

[[Langley, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Langley is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Grand Lake Towne, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Grand Lake Towne is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Fort Cobb, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Fort Cobb is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Lookeba, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Lookeba is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Sterling, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Sterling is a city in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Academy of Science and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 establishments in Europe, National academies of sciences, Sarajevo

The Academy of Sciences and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian: Akademija nauka i umjetnosti Bosne i Hercegovine Cyrillic: Академија наука и умјетности Босне и Херцеговине) is the national academy of Bosnia and Herzegovina.

[[Geronimo, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Geronimo is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Fletcher, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Fletcher is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Salina, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Salina is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Sams Corner, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in Oklahoma

Sams Corner is a census-designated place (CDP) of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Hinton, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Hinton is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Lima, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Lima is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Earlsboro, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Earlsboro is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Pink, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Pink is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Pittsburg, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Pittsburg is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Indianola, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Indianola is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Savanna, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Savanna is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Crowder, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Crowder is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Colcord, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Colcord is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. It is in southern Delaware County.

[[Oaks, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Oaks is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Hulbert, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Hulbert is a town in the U.S. state of Oklahoma.

[[Carnegie, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Carnegie is a city in Oklahoma, in the United States.

[[Panama, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Panama is a town in Le Flore County, Oklahoma, United States. It is part of the Fort Smith, Arkansas-Oklahoma Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 1,413 at the 2010 census.

[[Saiga-12]]

CATEGORIES: Shotguns

The Saiga-12 shotgun is a magazine-loaded, semi-automatic shotgun used by the Russian military. Its design was largely based on the AK-47. It can hold box magazines with up to 10 shells, and it can hold drum magazines with up to 30 shells.

[[7.62×51mm NATO]]

CATEGORIES: Ammunition, Military cartridges, NATO, Pistol and rifle cartridges

The 7.62 x 51mm NATO is one of the main types of bullets used for battle rifles, sniper rifles, and light machine guns used by NATO countries.

It is based on the .30-06 Springfield catridge. The bullet is the same size, but the case is a little smaller so soldiers could carry more bullets. It was the main bullet used by NATO until the 5.56 x 45mm NATO was invented.

Guns that use the 7.62 NATO include the M14, the FN FAL, the G3, the SCAR, the M240, and the M21.

[[Hiroshi Hara]]

CATEGORIES: Botanists, Japanese biologists

(ja:原寛) Japanist botanist

This author is usually abbreviated «H.Hara» when citing a botanical name.

[[7.62 x 39mm]]

CATEGORIES: 7.62 mm firearms, Military cartridges, Pistol and rifle cartridges

The 7.62 x 39mm, pronounced "seven-six-two by thirty-nine", is an intermediate cartridge used for Russian guns.

It was based on the 7.62 x 54mmR cartridge. The bullet size is the same, but the case is much smaller so that soldiers could carry more bullets. It was made because the Soviet Union learned that full-sized bullets were not needed in most firefights. Most firefights happened in less than 300 meters, or medium- and short-range. At this range, it is more important to have many smaller bullets than a few large bullets.

The bullets are used for guns like the SKS, the AK-47, and the RPK.

Similar to many hunting bullets, it is powerful enough to kill a deer at 100 yards.

[[Penetration power]]

CATEGORIES: Ballistics, Ammunition

Penetration power is how deep a weapon can pierce through or shoot through a surface.

For guns, rifle bullets can usually penetrate, or shoot through, deeper than pistol bullets or shotgun shells because they are narrower and faster. This is why most bullet-proof vests can stop pistol bullets and shotgun shells, but not rifle bullets.

[[Intermediate cartridge]]

CATEGORIES: Ammunition

An intermediate cartridge is a bullet used for assault rifles and some light machine guns. They are not as large as full-sized rifle bullets, and they do not have as much stopping power, penetration power, or effective range. However, more of them can be carried because they are smaller. They still have more stopping power, penetration power, and effective range than most pistol bullets. They are still powerful enough to shoot through most bullet-proof vests and they can kill a fully grown person if aimed well enough. Intermediate cartridges include the Russian 7.62 x 39mm, the 7.62mm NATO, and the German 7.92 Kurz. They are made to be just good enough for most firefights, so they are used for many short- and medium-range guns.

The idea for an intermediate cartridge came with the German military making the StG-44. During World War II, the German miltary learned that most firefights happened in fewer than 300 meters. The bolt-action rifles used by most German soldiers were not good enough for short-range because they were too slow to fire, the bullets used for them were too heavy, and the guns kicked back too hard, causing soldiers to lose their accuracy when shooting quickly. Submachine guns were not good enough for medium range because they were less accurate and powerful at longer ranges. At medium-range, German soldiers needed a different kind of gun altogether. They needed a gun that could shoot accurately up to 300 meters, powerful enough to kill a person at that range, and could carry a bullet small enough that soldiers could carry a lot of them. The gun they made to meet these needs was called the StG-44. Rifles that fired these kinds of bullets are called assault rifles, and the StG-44 was the first of these.

The StG-44 fired the 7.92 x 33mm Kurz bullet. The bullet was the same size as the 7.92 x 57mm Mauser, but the case was about half the size. It was not as powerful or accurate at long range, but it was smaller and had less kickback. This made it great at medium ranges. It was used by German soldierd late in the war, mostly on the Eastern Front. Unfortunately for the Germans, the StG-44 was used too late in the war to help them win.

When Soviet soldiers found StG-44's, they too got the idea to make rifles that fired intermediate cartridges. They made the 7.62 x 39mm based the larger 7.62 x 54mmR. Guns the Soviets made that fired the 7.62 x 39mm include the AK-47, the SKS, and the RPK.

During the early part of the Vietnam War, American soldiers though that the 7.62mm NATO bullets were too heavy to carry. To fix this problem, gun designers made a completely new bullet, the 5.56mm NATO. It was a very small bullet, but it had a very high effective range because it had a very high muzzle velocity. This is called a Small Caliber High Velocity (SCHV) bullet. It was not as powerful as the 7.62mm NATO, but the designers believed that wounding soldiers rather than killing them would be more effective. This was because fellow soldiers would have to risk their lives to rescue wounded soldiers. Nonetheless, a well-aimed shot can still kill a person easily. Also, soldiers could carry twice as many 5.56mm NATO bullets. Most medium-range NATO guns today fire the 5.56mm NATO, including the M16, the M4, the SAW M249, the FAMAS, the Steyr AUG, and the G36.

The Soviet Union saw the effectiveness of the 5.56mm NATO, so they hired Mikhail Kalshnikov, the creator of the AK-47, to make a SCHV assault rifle for the Soviets. He made the AK-74, which was based of the AK-47, but it fired a smaller bullet, the 5.45 x 39mm bullet.

[[5.45 x 39mm]]

CATEGORIES: Pistol and rifle cartridges, Military cartridges

The 5.45 x 39mm cartridge is the main bullet made for short- and medium-range guns for the later Soviet and Russian militaries. It is used for guns like the AK-74, the RPK-74, the AN-94, the AK-100 series of rifles, and the AK-12. It is a Small Caliber High Velocity (SCHV) bullet, which means it is very small, but it has a high muzzle velocity and effective range.

After hearing about the success of NATO's new SCHV bullet, the 5.56mm NATO, in the Vietnam War, the Soviet Union believed they needed to make their own to be able to fight off NATO. They hired Mikhail Kalashnikov, the creator of the AK-47, to make an SCHV assault rifle. Kalashnikov disliked the idea because he felt the Soviet Union needed to outdo NATO weapons, not copy their ideas. Nonetheless, he made the AK-74, the first gun to fire the 5.45 x 39mm.

[[Type-99 light machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Light machine guns

The Type-99 light machine gun was a squad automatic weapon used by the Japanese during World War II. It was based on the British Bren LMG, but it had some unusual features. First, it had a bayonet attachment, which is not usually made for LMGs. Second, its magazines had a counter that tells the shooter how many bullets are left.

[[M1919 Browning machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: 7.62 mm firearms, Medium machine guns, Machine guns of the United States, Light machine guns

The M1919 Browning machine gun was a .30-06 Springfield light machine gun that mostly replaced the M1917 during World War II. 

It was one of the earliest air-cooled machine guns. It overheated more quickly than the M1917, which was water-cooled, but it was much lighter. It fired slowly enough so that a soldier who was well-trained in shooting in bursts would not overheat the gun.

The M1919 was well-known for being powerful, accurate, and reliable.

[[Arisaka rifle]]

CATEGORIES: History of Japan, Japanese weapons, Rifles

The Arisaka rifles were the main rifles used by the Japanese military from 1897 to 1945. The most famous models were the Type 38 and Type 99 rifles.

[[Type 92 machine gun]]

CATEGORIES: Machine guns

The Type 92 heavy machine gun was the main machine gun used by the Japanese military during World War II. Its heavy weight and slow rate of fire made it a very accurate machine gun. However, its heavy weight also made it impossible to use on the offensive, since it needed to be carried by several soldiers. Also, the bullets needed to be oiled before loading the gun, and not doing so could cause the gun to jam. It fired 30 round belt clips loaded on the side. US soldiers called it the "woodpecker" because it sounded like one from far away.

[[Urap]]

CATEGORIES: Salads, Indonesian culture, Asian foods

Urap is an Indonesian salad dish of steamed vegetables mixed with seasoned and dressed by coconut. Urap can be eaten as a salad for vegetarian or as a side dish. Urap is usually found as a prerequisite side dish of Javanese tumpeng, a cone shaped rice mound surrounded with assorted dishes.

[[Premiership of Dean Barrow]]

The premiership of Dean Barrow began at noon EST on 8 February 2008, when Dean Barrow was inaugurated as the 4th Prime Minister of Belize, succeeding Said Musa. A member of the United Democratic Party (UDP), Barrow was Leader of the Opposition and Area Representative of Queen’s Square constituency at the time of his 2008, general election victory over People’s United Party (PUP) Leader, Said Musa. Barrow and the UDP surge to a landslide victory in that election, winning 25 seats in the House of Representatives, 56.61% of the vote and 66,203 of the Popular Vote. The UDP Campaign saw that the ruling PUP had made many false and misleading statements during their campaign and also their term in Government. The promises which the PUP promised when they got elected in 1998 and 2003 was not fulfilled at the end of their term. Leaving the UDP to criticise their “empty promises” as “misleading and vindictive”. There were also large-scale of official Corruption. Barrow’s approval rating has been generally stable, hovering form high-40 to mid-50 percent throughout his premiership.

[[Denmark Place fire]]

CATEGORIES: 1980 in Europe, 1980s disasters in Europe, 1980s fires, 1980s murders in the United Kingdom, Arson, Attacks on buildings and structures in London, Attacks on buildings and structures in the 1980s, August events, Building and structure fires in the United Kingdom, Fires in London, Mass murder in London, Mass murder in the 1980s

The Denmark Place fire occurred on 16 August 1980 in Denmark Place, Central London, United Kingdom. Petty criminal John Thompson (1938-2008) was a customer at a nightclub. He argued with a bartender because he believed he had been overcharged for a drink there. Thompson was ejected. He returned later that night with petrol and paper, which he used to deliberately set fire to the building, killing 37 people. In May 1981, Thompson was convicted of murder and sentenced to life imprisonment. He was kept in prison until he died.     

[[President of Vanuatu]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Vanuatu, Heads of state

The President of Vanuatu is the head of state of Vanuatu.

[[Central High, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Central High is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Chattanooga, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Chattanooga is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Cooperton, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Cooperton is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Copan, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Copan is a town in Oklahoma, in the United States.

[[Council Hill, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Council Hill is a city in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Covington, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Covington is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Cowlington, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Cowlington is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Coyle, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Coyle is a town in Oklahoma, in the United States.

[[Custer City, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Custer City is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Hammon, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Hammon is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Reydon, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Reydon is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Strong City, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Strong City is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Texhoma, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Texhoma is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Okay, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Okay is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Fair Oaks, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Fair Oaks is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Oologah, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Oologah is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Davenport, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Davenport is a town in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Sparks, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Sparks is a city in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[King of the Monsters (video game)]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 video games, Arcade games, Fighting games, Video game series, Video games developed in Japan, Virtual Console games, Sega Genesis games, Super Nintendo Entertainment System games

King of the Monsters is a fighting game developed by SNK, released for arcades in Japan in 1991, and ported to the Neo Geo AES later that same year. The game features playable giant monsters that are reminiscent of characters from kaiju and tokusatsu movies.

In 1992, a sequel titled King of the Monsters 2 was released for arcades. Months later, King of the Monsters was ported to the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. It would then be ported to the Sega Genesis in 1993. It was included in the video game SNK Arcade Classics Vol. 1, which was released for the Wii, PlayStation 2 and PSP in 2008.

[[You Gotta Be]]

CATEGORIES: 1994 songs, Soul songs

"You Gotta Be" is a song recorded by British singer-songwriter Des'ree from her second studio album, I Ain't Movin' (1994).  It was released in August 1994 through Sony Soho Square Records. Des'ree co-wrote and co-produced the song with Ashley Ingraham.  It is a downtempo soul song that ends the chorus with, "Love will save the day."

The song reached the top ten in Australia and the UK, after its re-release in 1999. It also reached the top five in Spain and on the Billboard Hot 100 in the US.

[[Sandbox (computer security)]]

CATEGORIES: Computer security

A sandbox computer is a computer that is used for running programs that might not be trustworthy such as cracked programs, known viruses or programs downloaded by suspicious websites. These computers are usually virtual machines, however sometimes they may not be to either appear legitimate or to use hardware, such as an unused laptop or an older computer (modern stuff most not being used in case it is capable of damaging the hardware).

[[2019 El Paso shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 crimes in the United States, 2019 mass shootings, 2010s crimes in Texas, 2010s mass shootings in the United States, Attacks on buildings and structures in 2019, Attacks on buildings and structures in the United States, Attacks on shops, August 2019 events, Deaths by firearm in Texas, El Paso, Texas, Mass shootings in Texas

A mass shooting took place at a Walmart store in El Paso, Texas, United States, on the morning of August 3, 2019. The gunman killed 22 people and injured 24 more. 

The FBI is investigating the shooting as an act of domestic terrorism and a possible hate crime.

Patrick Wood Crusius, age 21, was arrested shortly after the shooting began and charged with capital murder.

The 2019 Dayton shooting occurred the following day.

[[2019 Dayton shooting]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 crimes in the United States, 2019 mass shootings, 2010s in Ohio, 2010s mass shootings in the United States, 2019 murders in the United States, Attacks on bars, Attacks on buildings and structures in the United States, August 2019 events, Dayton, Ohio, Mass murder in 2019, Mass murder in the United States, Murders by firearm in the United States

A mass shooting happened at a bar in Dayton, Ohio, United States, on August 4, 2019, at 1:05 a.m. Eastern Time. Ten people were killed, including the perpetrator, and at least 27 others were injured. The gunman was killed by police within 30 seconds of the first shots being fired.

A search into the shooter's home found writings that showed interest in killing people. The attack was the second mass shooting in the United States in 13 hours, following one in El Paso, Texas.

Police reported that all the fatalities occurred outside the bar on East 5th Street, and that the shooter's 22-year-old sister, Megan Betts, was among those killed.

[[Deaths in August 2019]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 deaths, August 2019 events

The following is a list of deaths that should be noted in August 2019. For deaths that should be noted before the month that the world is in, please see "Months". Names under each date are noted in the order of the alphabet by last name or pseudonym. Deaths of non-humans are noted here also if it is worth noting.

Each listing of a death must have a source. If no reference is included, the death notice will be removed. The following are the requirements of adding a name to the list in its order: name, age, where they came from, what the person is known for, cause of death (if known) and a source.

[[Rivet]]

CATEGORIES: Objects, Manufacturing, Iron

A rivet is a type of bolt which fastens plates of metal together. Riveting was a main method of building metal ships, bridges and many other complex metal objects. It was developed in the early industrial revolution from earlier ideas. It is no longer the main method of metal fastening, but examples can be seen all over the world.

The key idea is that the slug of metal is red-hot when hammered into place. This results in the slug of metal having a dumbell shape which holds the two metal sheets together. An automatic jackhammer is used to force the metal into position, so giving a bulb on the inside face away from the pounding. The process (for example, of ship building) was very noisy. As the metal cooled, the two end of the rivet were pulled together, making a tight joint.

To be a riveter was skilled work. The men worked in teams of four: two to heat the rivet and pass it to the two fasteners. It was therefore an expensive process even when it was shortened by mechanising the heating process as in the example shown. 

Rivets could be tested simply by tapping.  A rivet tightly set in its hole gives a clear ring, while a loose rivet produces a different sound.

Riveting developed in many ways, and there are many different kinds of rivets. Today riveting has been largely replaced by welding, or by high-strength bolts. However, riveting is still used where light weight and high strength are critical, such as in aircraft. 

[[Kristina Tremasova]]

CATEGORIES: Figure skaters, Living people, 1995 births, Bulgarian sportspeople

Kristina Tremasova (born on March 13, 1995 in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia) is a Bulgarian ice dancer. Her partner is Dimitar Lichev. She teamed up with Dimitar Lichev in 2009. They participated at the 2011 World Championships in Moscow, ended in 16th place in preliminaries. They also reached 15th place in prelims at 2011 European Championships.

[[Church Street, Pretoria bombing]]

CATEGORIES: 1983, 1980s explosions, 20th century in South Africa, Car and truck bombings, Explosions in Africa, Mass murder in Africa, Mass murder in the 1980s, May events, Pretoria, Terrorist incidents in Africa, Terrorist incidents in the 1980s

The Church Street bombing was a car bombing on 20 May 1983 by Umkhonto we Sizwe, in Pretoria, South Africa. It killed the two bombers (because it exploded ten minutes earlier than they intended) and 17 other people.

[[List of flags by country]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of flags

[[Sajid Javid]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people, Alumni of the University of Exeter, Bankers, Chancellors of the Exchequer, Conservative MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, People from Bristol, Politicians from Lancashire, Privy Councillors (UK), Secretaries of State for the Home Department, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–

Sajid Javid (born 5 December 1969) is a British Conservative politician serving as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care since 2021. He was the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government after being appointed by Prime Minister Theresa May on 14 July 2016. In 2018 Javid became the Home Secretary after Amber Rudd resigned. In July 2019, he became Chancellor of the Exchequer for the Boris Johnson cabinet. He resigned in February 2020.

He was appointed the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills, on 11 May 2015.  Javid previously served as Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport from 2014 to 2015. He was Minister for Equalities in 2014. Javid was the Financial Secretary to the Treasury  and Economic Secretary. 

Javid was considered a possible candidate for becoming Leader of the Conservative Party. On 27 May 2019, Javid announced his campaign to run for Leader of the Conservative Party in the 2019 election. On 20 June, Javid was eliminated on the fourth ballot.

Before entering politics Javid worked in finance. He became a vice president at Chase Manhattan Bank at age 25. He later joined Deutsche Bank in London. When he left Deutsche Bank in 2009, he was a senior Managing Director.

Javid is of Pakistani descent.

[[Gopikrishnan Kottoor]]

CATEGORIES: Indian poets, 1956 births

Gopikrishnan Kottoor is a award winning Indian English poet. He is the member of advisory board of Indian Writers Association. He is best known for his poem "Father, Wake Us In Passing".

[[U.S. Route 36]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 36 (US 36) is an east–west United States highway. It goes about 1,414 from Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado to Uhrichsville, Ohio. The highway's western endpoint is at Deer Ridge Junction, which an intersection in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, where it meets US 34. Its eastern endpoint is at US 250 in Uhrichsville, Ohio.

[[Southern Miss Golden Eagles]]

CATEGORIES: Conference USA, Mississippi, Sports in the United States

The Southern Miss Golden Eagles is the sports team of the University of Southern Mississippi.  Men's football, basketball, men's baseball (hardball), and women's softball (baseball) are sponsored sports of the Golden Eagles. 

[[U.S. Route 50]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 50 or U.S. Highway 50 (US 50) is a major east–west route of the U.S. Highway system. It goes over 3000 from Interstate 80 (I-80) in West Sacramento, California, to Maryland Route 528 (MD 528) in Ocean City, Maryland, on the Atlantic Ocean. The Interstates were built later. They are mostly separate from this route. The route goes through mostly rural desert and mountains in the western United States. The part that goes through Nevada is known as "The Loneliest Road in America". In the Midwest, US 50 goes through mostly rural areas of farms, although it does go through a few big cities including Kansas City, Missouri; St. Louis, Missouri; and Cincinnati, Ohio. The route goes into the eastern United States, where it goes through the Appalachian Mountains in West Virginia; then it goes through Washington, D.C. From there, US 50 goes through Maryland as a high-speed road to Ocean City. Signs at each end give the length as 3073, but the actual distance is slightly shorter. This is due to small changes in the route since it was measured. US 50 goes through a total of 12 states; California, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, West Virginia, Virginia, and Maryland, as well as the District of Columbia.

[[U.S. Route 54]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 54 (US 54) is an east–west United States highway. It goes northeast-southwest for 1,197 miles (2,115 km) from Griggsville, Illinois to El Paso, Texas. It enters and leaves Texas twice. The Union Pacific Railroad's Tucumcari Line (former Southern Pacific and Rock Island Lines "Golden State Route") go parallel to US-54 from El Paso to Pratt, Kansas. That part makes up about two-thirds of the route.

The highway's eastern endpoint is at Interstate 72 in Griggsville, Illinois. Its western endpoint is El Paso, near the United States-Mexico border.

[[Kar98 rifle]]

CATEGORIES: Rifles

The Kar98 is a German bolt-action rifle and it was the German military's main gun during World War II. It is a carbine version of the G98. The Kar98 was made because the G98 was too long to be used well in small spaces.

At the end of World War II, many German soldiers had to give up their weapons, including the Kar98. Despite it being the main gun used by Nazi Germany, it was often used by Israeli soldiers in the 1947-1949 Palestine War.

[[United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 establishments, 1947 in law, Arab–Israeli conflict, History of Israel, History of Jordan, History of Palestine, History of the United Nations

The United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine, or the 1947 UN Partition Plan, was a plan to split the former British colony of Mandatory Palestine into two different countries. It would have been split into six different regions, three belonging to the Palestinians and three to the Israelis, and Jerusalem would have been an international city shared by both countries. The Israelis accepted the plan, but the Palestinians rejected it. The plan was never put into place and this led to the 1947-1949 Palestine War.

[[Sportacus]]

Sportacus is the main good guy  in the television series LazyTown, who is a character that promotes exercise and lives in an airship located above LazyTown. Sportacus is played by Magnús Scheving, who also created LazyTown.

[[Consumer price index]]

CATEGORIES: Economic indicators, Finance, Inflation, Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, Statistics

The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a way of measuring the overall price level of the consumer goods and services in the economy.

[[Stourbridge]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the West Midlands (county)

Stourbridge is a town in the West Midlands, England. In 2011, it had a population of 63,298.

[[Dudley]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in the West Midlands (county)

Dudley is a town in the West Midlands, England. In 2011, the town had a population of 79,379.

[[Nature Cat]]

CATEGORIES: 2010s American television series, 2015 American television series debuts, American animated television series, Canadian animated television series, PBS Kids shows

Nature Cat is an American-Canadian animated television show.

Nature Cat premiered on November 25, 2015 on PBS Kids. The series is aimed at children aged 3 to 8 years old, following the adventures of four main characters: Nature Cat, Hal the Dog, Daisy the Rabbit and Squeeks the Mouse. The show has been nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for "Outstanding Writing in an Animated Program". The series debut in November achieved nearly 3.7 million viewers, and by March it has achieved 69 million video streams across online platforms. As of October 2016, Nature Cat has been renewed for a second and third season. The second season premiered on January 1, 2018. Then the third season premiered on April 18, 2019.

The show's soundtrack, The Green Album, was released on February 16, 2018 through BMG Rights Management (which also owns the song publishing rights to Nature Cat).

On June 5, 2018, the first DVD Onward and Pondward was released. Tomy owns the toy license to Nature Cat, and has released several stuffed animals of the main characters.

[[Splash and Bubbles]]

CATEGORIES: English-language television programs, 2016 television series debuts, 2018 television series endings

Splash and Bubbles is an American computer-animated television show created by John Tartaglia.

Splash and Bubbles premiered on November 23, 2016 after Wild Kratts: Creatures of the Deep Sea by Herschend Studios and The Jim Henson Company for PBS Kids.

[[Gordon Brand Jnr]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2019 deaths, Scottish sportspeople, British golfers

Gordon Brand Jnr  (19 August 1958 – 1 August 2019) was a Scottish professional golfer. He played on the European Tour, winning eight times, and later the European Senior Tour, winning twice. He was born in Kirkcaldy, Scotland.

He played in the 1979 Walker Cup and played twice in the Ryder Cup, in 1987 and 1989. Brand died suddenly on 1 August 2019, aged 60.

[[Puși Dinulescu]]

CATEGORIES: People from Bucharest, 1942 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Romanian writers, Poets, Playwrights, Romanian movie directors

Puşi Dinulescu (ˈpuʃi dinuˈlesku; born Dumitru Dinulescu duˈmitru (27 August 1942 – 1 August 2019) was a Romanian playwright, movie, theatre and television director, novelist, poet and polemicist. He received The Bucharest Writers' Association Award (1979) for Linda Belinda (a collection of short stories) and The Writers' Union of Romania Award (1985), for his novel Îngerul contabil.

Dinulescu died on 1 August 2019 in Bucharest of a heart attack at the age of 76.

[[Ian Gibbons (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from bladder cancer, English pianists, Keyboardists

Ian Gibbons (18 July 1952 – 1 August 2019) was an English keyboardist. He was known for playing with The Kinks.

Gibbons died on 1 August 2019 at the age of 67 from bladder cancer.

[[Dee Margo]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 21st-century American politicians, Living people

Donald "Dee" Margo is an American businessman who is currently the mayor of the Texan-Mexican border city, El Paso, Texas. Before becoming mayor, he was a member of the Texas House of Representatives from the 78th district. 

[[Prime Minister of Cameroon]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Cameroon

Under the current Constitution of Cameroon, the Prime Minister of Cameroon is a powerless position. While the Prime Minister is officially appointed to be the head of government, the President has the most of the executive power and can fire the Prime Minister at will.

[[Sadou Hayatou]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2019 deaths, Prime Ministers of Cameroon

Sadou Hayatou (15 February 1942 – 1 August 2019) was a Cameroonian politician. Hayatou was the 4th Prime Minister of Cameroon from 26 April 1991 to 9 April 1992. He was born in Garoua, Cameroon.

Hayatou died on 1 August 2019 at the age of 77.

[[Simon Achidi Achu]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2021 deaths, Prime Ministers of Cameroon

"Pa" Simon Achidi Achu (5 November 1934 – 4 May 2021) was a Cameroonian politician. He was the Prime Minister of Cameroon from 1992 to 1997. He was Minister of Justice from 1972 to 1975. 

Achu was a leading member of the Cameroon People's Democratic Movement (CPDM). He was appointed as Chairman of the National Investment Corporation in 2003, and he was "elected" to the Senate of Cameroon in 2013.

Achu died on 4 May 2021 at a hospital in the United States from an illness, aged 86.

[[Joseph Ngute]]

CATEGORIES: 1954 births, Living people, Prime Ministers of Cameroon, Current national leaders

Joseph Dion Ngute (born March 12, 1954) is a Cameroonian politician. He is the 9th and current Prime Minister of Cameroon, following his appointment in January 2019 by President Paul Biya. He replaced Philémon Yang.

[[President of Cameroon]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Cameroon

Under the current Constitution of Cameroon, the President of Cameroon is the head of state and has the most executive power. The authority of the State is done both by the President and by the Parliament.

The office of President of Cameroon was created in 1960, following the country's independence from France. 

[[Ahmadou Ahidjo]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 1989 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Presidents of Cameroon, Prime Ministers of Cameroon

Ahmadou Babatoura Ahidjo (24 August 1924 – 30 November 1989) was a Cameroonian politician. He was the first President of Cameroon, holding the office from 1960 until 1981. 

Ahidjo played a major role Cameroon's independence from France as well as reuniting the French and English-speaking parts of the country. He was also the country's first Prime Minister from January 1960 to May 1960.

Ahidjo resigned from the presidency in 1981, and Paul Biya replaced him. He was accused of being behind a coup plot against Biya in 1984. He was sentenced to death, but he died of a heart attack on 30 November 1989 at the age of 65.

[[Federal Chancellor of Switzerland]]

CATEGORIES: Federal Chancellors of Switzerland

The Federal Chancellor (Bundeskanzler(in); Chancelier(-ière) fédéral(e); Cancelliere(-a) della Confederazione; Chancelier(a) federal(a)) is the head of the Federal Chancellery of Switzerland. It acts as the general staff of the seven-member Federal Council. The Swiss Chancellor is not a member of the government.

The Federal Chancellor is elected for a four-year term by the Federal Assembly. The current Chancellor, Walter Thurnherr who began his term on 1 January 2016.

[[Walter Thurnherr]]

CATEGORIES: 1963 births, Living people, Federal Chancellors of Switzerland

Walter Thurnherr (born 11 July 1963) is a Swiss politician. He is the 16th and current Federal Chancellor of Switzerland since 1 January 2016.

[[François Couchepin]]

CATEGORIES: Federal Chancellors of Switzerland, 1935 births, Living people

François Couchepin (born 19 January 1935) is a Swiss lawyer and politician. He was a member of the Free Democratic Party of Switzerland (FDP). He was the 13th Chancellor of Switzerland from 1991 to 1999.

[[Annemarie Huber-Hotz]]

CATEGORIES: Federal Chancellors of Switzerland, Deaths from myocardial infarction, 1948 births, 2019 deaths

Annemarie Huber-Hotz (16 August 1948 – 1 August 2019) was a Swiss politician. She was the  Federal Chancellor of Switzerland between 2000 and 2007.  She was nominated by the FDP for the office, and elected to it on 15 December 1999.  

In 2011, she became President of the Swiss Red Cross and ex officio vice-president of the IFRC.

Huber-Hotz died on 1 August 2019 at the age of 70 from a heart attack.

[[Ueli Maurer]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, Living people, Presidents of the Swiss Confederation

Ulrich "Ueli" Maurer (born 1 December 1950) is a Swiss politician. He was the President of the Swiss Confederation from 1 January 2019 until 31 December 2019. He is a member of the Swiss People's Party.

[[René Felber]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2020 deaths, Presidents of the Swiss Confederation

René Felber (14 March 1933 – 18 October 2020) is a Swiss politician. He was a member of the Swiss Federal Council (1987–1993). In 1980/81, he was the floor leader of the Social Democratic Party in the Federal Parliament. He was elected to the Swiss Federal Council on 9 December 1987 as member of the Canton of Neuchâtel and for the Social Democratic Party.

[[Milovan Minja Prelević]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, 2019 deaths, Montenegrin footballers

Milovan Minja Prelević (28 February 1970 – 1 August 2019) was a Montenegrin football coach and player. 

Milovan´s football career started in the FK Kom from Podgorica. Later on he played in FK Crvena Stijena, FK Budućnost, OFK Belgrade and FK Obilić. Milovan played for youth national team of Montenegro.

He stops with the active playing football quite early and becomes devoted to the coaching instead. His coaching job starts at FK Budućnost. He even worked in OFK Petrovac, FK Kom, FK Mladost, Montenegro U-19 national team and Hajer FC. 

He was coach with UEFA PRO license and lecturer at the UEFA school of coaches of Montenegro.

On August 1, 2019, Prelević was found dead at his apartment at the age of 49.

[[Deepak Obhrai]]

CATEGORIES: 1950 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from liver cancer, Politicians from Alberta, People from Calgary, Privy Councillors (Canada), Members of the House of Commons of Canada

Deepak Obhrai CAN (July 5, 1950 – August 2, 2019) was a Tanzania-born Canadian politician. He represented the riding of Calgary East (until 2015) and Forest Lawn (from 2015) for the Reform Party of Canada and then the Conservative Party of Canada from 1997 until his death in 2019.

Obhrai was the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. He was the first and only Hindu to become an MP in Canada, and at the time of his death was the longest continuously-serving Conservative MP.

He ran in the 2017 Conservative Party of Canada leadership election, but was defeated in the first round of voting.

Obhrai died in Calgary on August 2, 2019 from liver cancer, aged 69.

[[Schoschana Rabinovici]]

CATEGORIES: Holocaust survivors, 1932 births, 2019 deaths, Lithuanian Jews, Polish Jews, Israeli Jews, Polish writers, Israeli writers, Writers from Paris

Schoschana Rabinovici (née Suzanne Weksler; November 14, 1932 – August 2, 2019) was a Holocaust survivor. She was the author of the memoir Dank meiner Mutter (1994) which was published in the United States in 1998 under the title Thanks to My Mother. She survived Vilnius Ghetto and the Kaiserwald and Stutthof Nazi concentration camps as a young girl (ages 8 to 12).

[[Jocelyne Roy-Vienneau]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2019 deaths, Canadian politicians, Cancer deaths in Canada, People from New Brunswick

Jocelyne Roy-Vienneau CAN (1956 – August 2, 2019) was a Canadian politician. She was the 31st Lieutenant Governor of New Brunswick. She was sworn-in on October 23, 2014. 

She was the viceregal representative of Queen Elizabeth II of Canada in the Province of New Brunswick.

Roy-Vinneau died at the age of 63 from cancer on August 2, 2019 in Bathurst, New Brunswick, after first being diagnosed in May 2018.

[[Alexandra Strelchenko]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2019 deaths, Russian singers

Alexandra Ilinichna Strelchenko (Александра Ильинична Стрельченко; 2 February 1937 – 2 August 2019) was an Ukrainian actress and singer. She was a performer of Russian folk songs, Russian romances and pop songs. She was awarded the People's Artist of the RSFSR in 1984.

From 1976 to 1980 she studied at the Gnessin State Musical College. From 2002, she had been a professor at Moscow State Art and Cultural University.

[[Miklós Ambrus]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2019 deaths, Hungarian water polo players, Olympic gold medalists

Miklós Ambrus (31 May 1933 – 3 August 2019) was a Hungarian water polo player. He was born in Eger. He competed in the 1964 Summer Olympics. He won the gold medal at the Olympics.

Ambrus died in Budapest on 3 August 2019 at the age of 86.

[[Jean-Claude Bouttier]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2019 deaths, French movie actors, French sportspeople, Boxers

Jean-Claude Bouttier (13 October 1944 – 3 August 2019) was a French actor and professional boxer. 

During his boxing career, which spanned from 1965 to 1974, he won 64 out of 72 bouts, 43 of them by knockout. 

In June 1971 he won the European Boxing Union (EBU) middleweight title, and in 1972 and 1973 unsuccessfully was part of the WBC and WBA titles against Carlos Monzon. He lost the EBU title to Kevin Finnegan in May 1974.

[[Cliff Branch]]

CATEGORIES: 1948 births, 2019 deaths, Oakland Raiders players, Sportspeople from Houston, Texas

Clifford Branch Jr. (August 1, 1948 – August 3, 2019) was an American professional football player. He was a wide receiver with the Oakland/Los Angeles Raiders during his entire 14-year National Football League (NFL) career. 

He won three NFL championships with the Raiders in Super Bowl XI, XV and XVIII. He was selected by the Raiders in the fourth round of the 1972 NFL Draft after playing college football for the Colorado Buffaloes.  

Branch was born in Houston, Texas. He died in Bullhead City, Arizona on August 3, 2019 at the age of 71. 

[[Brian Lochore]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from stomach cancer, New Zealand rugby union players

Sir Brian James Lochore NZL (3 September 1940 – 3 August 2019) was a New Zealand rugby union player and coach. He captained the New Zealand national team, the All Blacks. He played at number 8 and lock, as well as captaining the side 46 times (18 of those tests).

In 1999, Lochore was added into the International Rugby Hall of Fame.

Lochore died of bowel cancer in Masterton, New Zealand on 3 August 2019 at the age of 78.

[[President of Palau]]

CATEGORIES: Presidents of Palau

The President of the Republic of Palau is the head of government and head of state of Palau. The president is directly elected to a four-year term, and can be reelected once.

[[Thomas Remengesau Jr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, Living people, Presidents of Palau

Thomas Esang "Tommy" Remengesau Jr. (born 28 February 1956) is a Palauan politician. He has been the ninth President of Palau since 2013. He was the seventh president from 2001 to 2009.

[[Kuniwo Nakamura]]

CATEGORIES: 1943 births, 2020 deaths, Presidents of Palau

Kuniwo Nakamura (中村國雄; November 24, 1943 – October 14, 2020) was a Palauan politician. He was the President of Palau from 1993 to 2001. He earlier was Vice President of Palau from 1989 to 1993.

Nakamura died on October 14, 2020 at the age of 76.

[[John Philip Saklil]]

CATEGORIES: 1960 births, 2019 deaths, Indonesian people, Roman Catholics

John Philip Saklil (20 March 1960 – 3 August 2019) was an Indonesian prelate of the  Catholic Church who was Bishop of Timika from 2004 until his death in 2019.

Saklil died on 3 August 2019 in Timika at the age of 59.

[[Mike Troy]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2019 deaths, American swimmers, American Olympic gold medalists, Sportspeople from Indianapolis, Indiana

Michael Francis Troy (October 3, 1940 – August 3, 2019) was an American swimmer. He was a two-time Olympic champion, and world record-holder in three events.

Troy broke the world record in the 200-meter butterfly six consecutive times before it was taken over by fellow American swimmer Carl Robie in 1961. In 1971 he was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame.

Troy died on August 3, 2019 in Arizona at the age of 78.

[[Ernie Bowman]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, American baseball players, San Francisco Giants players, Sportspeople from Tennessee

Ernest Ferrell Bowman (July 28, 1935 – August 4, 2019) was an American professional baseball player. He was an infielder who appeared in 165 games in Major League Baseball for the San Francisco Giants from 1961 to 1963.

He retired in 1969. Bowman died at his home in Johnson City, Tennessee on August 4, 2019 at the age of 84.

[[Prime Minister of Cambodia]]

CATEGORIES: Prime Ministers of Cambodia

The Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia (នាយករដ្ឋមន្ត្រីនៃព្រះរាជាណាចក្រកម្ពុជា, Premier ministre du Royaume du Cambodge) is the head of government  of Cambodia.

The prime minister is also the chairman of the Cabinet and leads the executive branch of the Royal Cambodian Government.

The prime minister is required to be a member of parliament, and is appointed by the monarch for a term of five years.

Since 1945, 36 individuals have served as prime minister; 32 as official prime ministers, and 4 in acting capacities.

The incumbent prime minister, since 1985, is Hun Sen of the Cambodian People's Party.

[[André Goosse]]

CATEGORIES: 1926 births, 2019 deaths, Belgian educators, Belgian writers

André Goosse (16 April 1926 – 4 August 2019) was a Belgian grammarian. He was known for his works on Le Bon Usage. In 1988, he married the Belgian writer France Bastia. He was a professor at the Université Catholique de Louvain. He was also the president of the Conseil international de la langue française.

Groosse died on 4 August 2019, at the age of 93.

[[Willi Tokarev]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Russian singers, Russian writers, Songwriters

Vilen Tokarev (11 November 1934 – 4 August 2019), known professionally as Willi Tokarev, was a Russian-American singer-songwriter. He was known for his 80s music about life as a Russian immigrant in New York. In 1973, Tokarev's song "Murmanchanochka" ("Murmansk Girl") became a huge local hit.

Tokarev died on August 4, 2019 from cancer in Moscow, aged 84.

[[Bob Wilber]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2019 deaths, American jazz musicians, American saxophonists, American clarinetists, Musicians from New York City

Robert Sage Wilber (March 15, 1928 – August 4, 2019) was an American jazz clarinetist, saxophonist, and band leader. He was popular in the 1950s and 1960s, including Bobby Hackett, Benny Goodman, Sidney Bechet, Jack Teagarden and Eddie Condon. 

In the late 1960s, he was an original member of the World's Greatest Jazz Band, and in the early 70s of Soprano Summit, a band which gained wide attention. In the late 1970s, he formed the Bechet Legacy Band.

Wilber died at the age of 91 in Chipping Campden, England on August 4, 2019.

[[Josef Kadraba]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2019 deaths, Czech footballers

Josef Kadraba (29 September 1933 – 5 August 2019) was a Czech football player. He played for Czechoslovakia, playing 17 matches and scoring 9 goals. He attended the 1962 FIFA World Cup, where Czechoslovakia won the silver medal.

[[Bjorg Lambrecht]]

CATEGORIES: 1997 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths in sport, Belgian cyclists

Bjorg Lambrecht (2 April 1997 – 5 August 2019) was a Belgian cyclist. He rode for UCI WorldTeam LTS. In August 2018, he was named in the startlist for the 2018 Vuelta a España. 

Lambrecht died on 5 August 2019 after crashing into a concrete tunnel during the third stage of the 2019 Tour de Pologne, aged 22.

[[Asif Mohseni]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Afghan politicians, Civil servants

Grand Ayatollah Muhammad Asif Mohseni (آیت‌الله العظمی محمد آصف محسنی) (Sheik Mohseni) (26 April 1935 – 5 August 2019) was an Afghan politician and religious leader. He was seen as the most powerful Twelver shia Marja' in Afghanistan. He was the founder of the Islamic Movement of Afghanistan (Harakat-I Islami-yi Afghanistan). He was a Shia Pashtun.He was born in the city of Kandahar, Afghanistan. 

Mohseni died on 2 August 2019 in Kabul at the age of 84.

[[Alejandro Serrano]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2019 deaths, Vice Presidents of Ecuador, Sports commentators

Nicanor Alejandro Serrano Aguilar (13 January 1933 – 6 August 2019) was an Ecuadorian politician and sports leader.  He was born in Cuenca, Ecuador. Serrano was Vice President of Ecuador from 5 May 2005 to 15 January 2007. National Congress of Ecuador elected him to fill vacancy of Vicepresidency when Alfredo Palacio became President of Ecuador. Serrano has been a mayor, councilman, sports leader and civil engineer.

Serrano died on 6 August 2019 at a hospital in Cuenca from surgery-related problems, aged 86.

[[Vice President of Ecuador]]

CATEGORIES: Vice Presidents of Ecuador

The Vice President of Ecuador is the second highest political position in Ecuador. In many instances, the vice president succeeded the president in turbulent political situations. The last time was in 2005 after the resignation of president Lucio Gutiérrez. According to the current constitution, the vice president is elected on the same ticket as the president.

[[Pedro Pierluisi]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, Living people, American lawyers, Governors of Puerto Rico

Pedro Rafael Pierluisi Urrutia (born April 26, 1959) is a Puerto Rican attorney, lobbyist, and politician. He is the Governor of Puerto Rico since January 2, 2021.

[[Sushma Swaraj]]

CATEGORIES: 1952 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Bharatiya Janata Party politicians, Indian politicians

 Sushma Swaraj  (Hi-SushmaSwaraj.ogg) (14 February 1952 – 6 August 2019) was an Indian politician and lawyer. She was a senior leader of Bharatiya Janata Party.

Swaraj was the Minister of External Affairs of India in the first Narendra Modi government (2014 – 2019). She was the second woman to hold the office, after Indira Gandhi.

She was elected seven times as a Member of Parliament and three times as a Member of the Legislative Assembly.

At the age of 25 in 1977, she became the youngest cabinet minister of Indian state of Haryana. She also served as 5th Chief Minister of Delhi for a short duration in 1998.

On 6 August 2019, Swaraj died of a heart attack at a hospital in New Delhi, aged 67.

She said in Februrary 2016, that the Romani people are children from India.

[[Molar heat capacity]]

CATEGORIES: Energy

The molar heat capacity of a substance is the energy needed to raise the temperature of one mole of it by one degree Celsius.

The molar heat capacity of a given substance can be found by heating the substance by releasing a known amount of energy into the substance and measuring the temperature change.

For example, a common school experiment to find the molar heat capacity of water involves heating a beaker of water with an immersion heater (that can display the heat released in joules on a display) and stirring the water, while checking the temperature at specific intervals.

For more accurate results, a bomb calorimeter can be used; these contain a chamber of fuel (in this case, a compound that will release heat when needed) inside a chamber of water, with the water chamber protected by heat-proof walls (to ensure minimal heat loss, which would affect the final heat capacity recorded).

[[Spontaneity (chemistry)]]

CATEGORIES: Chemical reactions, Physical chemistry

The spontaneity of a process refers to whether or not the reaction would occur without an input of energy, because of the value of the reaction's Gibbs free energy.

The Gibbs free energy is given by:

If the Gibbs free energy change is 0 or negative, the reaction is said to be spontaneous and can occur without an input of energy into the system. If the Gibbs free energy were above 0, the reaction would not be spontaneous and would require an input of energy in order for it to proceed.

In equilibrium reactions, a reaction one way will be spontaneous, while the reverse reaction will be non-spontaneous. Therefore, using a general formula for equilibria:

An example of a spontaneous process is the conversion of diamond into graphite, because graphite has a more thermodynamically stable structure. An example of a non-spontaneous process would be the combustion of methane in oxygen to form carbon dioxide and water, as this requires an input of energy.

[[Peep and the Big Wide World]]

CATEGORIES: 2000s television series, 2010s television series, 2004 American television series debuts, 2011 American television series endings, American animated television series, Animated television series, American television series, Canadian animated television series, Canadian television series, Children's television series

Peep and the Big Wide World (known as Peep) is an American-Canadian animated television show created by Kaj Pindal.

Peep and the Big Wide World was based on the 1988 short film Peep and the Big Wide World (of the same name) produced by the National Film Board of Canada, which itself is based on the 1962 short film The Peep Show, also produced by the National Film Board of Canada.

Peep and the Big Wide World premiered on April 12, 2004, on Discovery Kids and on TLC as part of their Ready Set Learn children's block, and on the same day on TVOKids and Discovery Kids produced by WGBH-TV, 9 Story Entertainment, Eggbox LLC, Alliance Atlantis (Seasons 1-3), Discovery Kids (Seasons 1-3), Sprout Originals (Seasons 4-5), and Echo Bridge Entertainment (Seasons 4-5).

Carriage on the Discovery children's networks ended on October 10, 2010 with the discontinuation of Ready Set Learn and the replacement of Discovery Kids with The Hub, and now, Discovery Family. It continues to be offered to public television stations via independent public television distributor Discovery Communications to the present day. Since January 1, 2018, the series is distributed by both Discovery Kids and APT. Throughout its run, it has been underwritten by the National Science Foundation, with Northrop Grumman underwriting season four in 2009.

Each episode consists of two 9-minute stories, which are animated segments, and two 2-minute live action segments, in which children explore and demonstrate the same topic presented in the animated segment.

[[Immobilized enzyme]]

CATEGORIES: Cell biology, Enzymes, Microbiology, Stereochemistry

An immobilized enzyme is an enzyme that is attached to an inert, insoluble material. This can provide a higher resistance to changes in condition such as pH or temperature.

[[U.S. Route 56]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 56 (US 56) is an east–west United States highway. It goes for 640 in the Midwestern United States. The highway's eastern endpoint is at U.S. Route 71 in Kansas City, Missouri. Its western endpoint is at Interstate 25 Business in Springer, New Mexico. Much of it follows the Santa Fe Trail.

[[U.S. Route 160]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 160 (US 160) is a 1,465 mile (2,358 km) long east–west United States highway in the Midwestern and Western United States. The western endpoint of the route is at US 89, five miles (8 km) west of Tuba City, Arizona. The eastern endpoint is at US 67 and Missouri 158, southwest of Poplar Bluff, Missouri.

Its route (or at least its number) was made famous in song in 1975. This is because the road from Wolf Creek Pass to Pagosa Springs, Colorado in C.W. McCall's country music song Wolf Creek Pass.

[[U.S. Route 166]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 166 (US 166) is a 164 west–east United States highway. This route and US-266 are the only two remaining parts of historic U.S. Route 66 (which was decommissioned in 1985), since US-666 was renumbered to US-491 in 2003.

US-166 meets the old route of US-66, now designated US-69 Alternate, in Baxter Springs in the southeast corner of Kansas.

[[U.S. Route 69]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 69 (US 69) is a major north–south United States highway.  When it was first created, it was only 150 long. It has been expanded into a Minnesota to Texas cross-country route. The highway's southern endpoint (as well as those of US 287 and US 96) is in Port Arthur, Texas at an intersection with State Highway 87. Its northern endpoint is in Albert Lea, Minnesota at Minnesota State Highway 13.

[[U.S. Route 270]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 270 (US 270) is a spur of US 70. It goes for 643 from Liberal, Kansas at US 54 to White Hall, Arkansas at Interstate 530 (I-530) and US 65. It goes through the states of Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Kansas. It goes through the cities of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Hot Springs, Arkansas, and McAlester, Oklahoma.

[[U.S. Route 73]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 73 (US 73) is a north–south United States highway. it goes for 113 from northeast Kansas to southeast Nebraska. The highway's southern endpoint is Bonner Springs, Kansas at I-70. Its northern endpoint is near Dawson, Nebraska at US 75.

[[U.S. Route 75]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 75 is a major north–south U.S. Highway. It goes 1239 in the central United States. The highway's northern endpoint is in Noyes, Minnesota, at the Canada–US border. Its southern endpoint is at Interstate 30 and Interstate 45 in Dallas, where it is called North Central Expressway.

U.S. 75 was a cross-country route. It went from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico at Galveston, Texas. However, the entire part south of Dallas has not been used in favor of Interstate 45. That part became Texas State Highway 75.

[[Roberto Totaro]]

CATEGORIES: Cartoonists, Italian people

Roberto Totaro (Belluno,1957) is an italian cartoonist he is famous for the comic Nirvana,translated also in Spanish and La Gazzetta della Giungla.

[[U.S. Route 77]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 77 (US 77) is a major north–south United States highway. It goes for 1305 miles in the central United States. As of 2005, the highway's northern endpoint is in Sioux City, Iowa, at an interchange with Interstate 29. Its southern endpoint is in Brownsville, Texas, at Veteran's International Bridge on the U.S.-Mexico border.

The road does not have signs in and around Dallas, Texas. The route has major freeway parts in Oklahoma City. It includes the Broadway Extension part, which connects suburban Edmond to downtown Oklahoma City.

[[Sio (cartoonist)]]

CATEGORIES: Italian people, 1988 births, Cartoonists, Italian voice actors, Living people

Simone Albrigi (born 8 October 1988, Verona, Italy) better known as Sio is an Italian cartoonist and youtuber.

[[U.S. Route 81]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 81 or U.S. Highway 81 (US 81) is a major north–south U.S. highway. It goes for 1220 in the central United States. It is one of the original United States Numbered Highways created in 1926 by the American Association of State Highway Officials.

The route of US 81 follows that of the old Meridian Highway which dates back as early as 1911. The highway has alternately (and unofficially) been known as part of the Pan-American Highway. In the part in the state of Oklahoma, the highway closely follows the old Chisholm Trail for cattle drives from Texas to railheads in Kansas in the 1860s and 1870s.

As of 2004, the highway's northern endpoint is just north of Pembina, North Dakota, at the Canadian border.

Its southern endpoint is in Fort Worth, Texas, at an intersection with I-35W and US 287. Between 1926 and 1991, US 81's southern endpoint was at the Mexican border in Laredo, Texas. In 1991, the endpoint was moved to San Antonio.

[[U.S. Route 83]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 83 (US 83) is a major north–south U.S. Highway. It goes 1885 in the central United States. Only four other north–south routes are longer: U.S. Routes 1, 41, 59, and 87. The highway's northern endpoint is north of Westhope, North Dakota, at the Canada–United States border. The southern endpoint is in Harlingen, Texas.

[[U.S. Route 400]]

CATEGORIES: U.S. Highways

U.S. Route 400 (US 400) is a 481.306 mostly east–west U.S. Highway. It was created in 1994. The highway's western endpoint is in Granada, Colorado, at an intersection with US 385. The highway's eastern endpoint is southwest of Joplin, Missouri, near Loma Linda, at an interchange with Interstate 44. It originally ended in Garden City, Kansas; in 1996 it was made longer to its current western endpoint. Its route number does not follow the usual AASHTO numbering scheme, as there is no "parent" US 0.

[[Tyson Foods]]

CATEGORIES: Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, 20th-century establishments in Arkansas, 1935 establishments in the United States, American food companies, Companies based in Arkansas

Tyson Foods, Inc. is an American multinational corporation based in Springdale, Arkansas. It is in the food industry. The company is the world's second biggest processor and marketer of chicken, beef, and pork after JBS S.A.. Every year, it exports the biggest percentage of beef out of the United States. It operates major food brands, including Jimmy Dean, Hillshire Farm, Sara Lee, Ball Park, Wright Brand, Aidells, and State Fair. Tyson Foods ranked No. 80 in the 2018 Fortune 500 list of the largest United States corporations by total revenue.

[[National Beef]]

CATEGORIES: Companies, Beef

National Beef is a beef processor. They are headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri, United States. They produce fresh, chilled, and further processed beef and beef by-products for customers worldwide. The company’s main focuses include branded box beef, consumer ready beef, portion control beef and wet blue leather.

[[Saline River (Kansas)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Kansas

The Saline River is a 397 tributary of the Smoky Hill River in the central Great Plains of North America. The entire river is in the U.S. state of Kansas in the northwest part of the state. The river got its name from the French translation of its Native name Ne Miskua. It refers to how salty the river is.

[[Wilson Lake (Kansas)]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of Kansas, Lakes of Kansas

Wilson Lake is a reservoir in the U.S. state of Kansas. It is on the border of Russell County and Lincoln County. It was built and managed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for flood control. It is also used for wildlife management and recreation. Several parks are along its shoreline, including Wilson State Park.

[[Gerry Fairhead]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2019 deaths, Canadian Olympians

Arthur Gerald "Gerry" Fairhead (March 23, 1923 – July 5, 2019) was a Canadian sailor. He placed eighth in the Star class at the 1948 Summer Olympics.

Fairhead died on July 5, 2019 at the age of 96.

[[Godfried Toussaint]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2019 deaths, Canadian scientists, Computer scientists

Godfried Theodore Patrick Toussaint (1944 – July 2019) was a Canadian computer scientist. He was a Professor of Computer Science, and the Head of the Computer Science Program at New York University Abu Dhabi (NYUAD). He did research on many aspects of computational geometry and discrete geometry.

He was a co-founder of the Annual ACM Symposium on Computational Geometry, and the annual Canadian Conference on Computational Geometry.

[[Zebulon Pike]]

CATEGORIES: 1813 deaths, 1779 births, American explorers

Zebulon Montgomery Pike (January 5, 1779 – April 27, 1813) was an American brigadier general and explorer. Pikes Peak in Colorado is named after him. As a U.S. Army officer, President Thomas Jefferson asked him to lead two journeys through the new Louisiana Purchase territory. The first was in 1805-06 to explore the upper northern parts of the Mississippi River. The second journey was in 1806-07 to explore the Southwest to the edges of the northern Spanish-colonial settlements of New Mexico and Texas. Pike's journeys happened at the same time as other journeys that happened while Thomas Jefferson was president. This include the Lewis and Clark Expedition (1804–1806) and the Thomas Freeman and Peter Custis expedition up the Red River (1806).

Pike's second journey crossed the Rocky Mountains into what is now southern Colorado. He was captured by the Spanish colonial authorities near Santa Fe. They sent Pike and his men to Chihuahua (present-day Mexico), to be questioned. Later in 1807, Pike and some of his men were led by the Spanish through Texas, and they were released near American territory in Louisiana.

In 1810, Pike wrote a book about his journeys. The book was so popular that it was translated into Dutch, French, and German languages, for publication in Europe. He later became a brigadier general in the American Army. He served during the War of 1812, until he was killed during the Battle of York, in April 1813.

[[Miriam Butterworth]]

CATEGORIES: 1918 births, 2019 deaths, Cardiovascular disease deaths in Connecticut, US Democratic Party politicians, American historians, American educators, American political activists, Politicians from Hartford, Connecticut, Writers from Hartford, Connecticut, People from West Hartford, Connecticut, People from Bloomfield, Connecticut

Miriam Butterworth (April 14, 1918 – July 9, 2019) was an American educator, activist, and politician. She was a Democrat. In the 1940s, she supported equalize representation in the Connecticut General Assembly. 

She was involved in the international peace movement and worked for peace to end the Vietnam War and later as a monitor for voting in Nicaragua. After teaching at independent schools, Butterworth was chair of the Public Utilities Control Authority. She was president of Hartford College for Women and was on the Town Council of West Hartford.

Butterworth died from heart disease on July 9, 2019 in Bloomfield, Connecticut, aged 101.

[[Toy & Wing]]

CATEGORIES: 1917 births, 2019 deaths, 1912 births, 1997 deaths, American centenarians, American dancers, Entertainers from California, People from San Francisco

Toy and Wing were an Asian-American tap dance duo. The duo were known as Dorothy Toy (real name Shigeko Takahashi, May 28, 1917 – July 10, 2019) and Paul Wing (real name Paul Wing Jew, October 14, 1912 – April 27, 1997). They were known as the "Chinese Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers". 

They were active in the 1930s and 1940s. They were the first Asian-Americans to enter the American tap dance scene.

Dorothy Toy was born on May 28, 1917 in San Francisco. She died on July 10, 2019 in Oakland, California at the age of 102. Paul Wing was born in Menlo Park, California on October 14, 1912 and died on April 27, 1997 at the Veterans Home of California located in Yountville California. He was 85 years old. 

[[Inger Berggren]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2019 deaths, Eurovision Song Contest entrants, Singers from Stockholm

Inger Berggren (23 February 1934 – 19 July 2019) was a Swedish singer. Her biggest hits were "Sol och vår" and "Elisabeth serenad", both in 1962. She participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 1962. She was the mother of the actress Gunilla Röör. Berggren was born in Stockholm.

Berggren died on 19 July 2019 in Stockholm at the age of 85.

[[Chaser (dog)]]

CATEGORIES: 2004 births, 2019 deaths, Individual dogs

Chaser (April 28, 2004 – July 23, 2019) was a Border Collie with the largest tested memory of any non-human animal. Chaser worked with Professor John W. Pilley, at his home in Spartanburg, South Carolina, from eight weeks old, until Pilley's death in June 2018. She was trained in a formal research project. Chaser could identify and retrieve 1,022 toys by name.

On July 23, 2019, Chaser died from natural causes, at the age of 15 years, in her home in Spartanburg, South Carolina.

[[Redding Municipal Airport]]

CATEGORIES: Airports in California, Shasta County, California

Redding Municipal Airport (IATA:RDD IACO:KRDD FAA:RDD) is a public airport that lies 11 kilometers southeast of Redding, California. The airport was first used by the United States Army Air Force in 1942, but the military use for the airport was ended 1949.

The airport is now used for both general and commercial flights with United Express, a small branch of United Airlines, having flights to San Francisco and Los Angeles. 

[[Michael Roth]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2019 deaths, German engineers, German computer scientists

Michael Roth (18 June 1936  – 23 July 2019) was a German engineer. He was professor of automation, specializing in microprocessor technology,  computer science and sociology as well as philosophy of science. He was one of the founders of computer engineering in Germany.

[[Insular area]]

CATEGORIES: Geography of the United States

Insular area is the name for one of the territories of the United States which are not a state of the union. People that live in these areas usually have no right to vote in US elections. Sometimes, they take part in preliminary elections. 

There are three areas in the Pacific Ocean: 

The following areas are in the Carribean:

[[Container garden]]

CATEGORIES: Gardening, Flowers

A container garden or pot garden is a garden that is in containers instead of in the ground.

A container in gardening may be of various sizes. It may or may not be easily portable. and is used for showing live flowers or plants. It may take the form of a pot, flower box, tub, pot, basket, tin, barrel or hanging basket.

[[Green roof]]

CATEGORIES: Architectural elements, Civil engineering, Ecology, Energy conservation, Gardening, Renewable energy, Sustainability, Sustainable development, Urban planning

A green roof or living roof is a roof of a building that is partially or totally covered with plants. It may also include layers such as a root barrier and drainage and irrigation systems. Container gardens on roofs, where plants are in pots, are not generally true green roofs. Although, this is debated. Rooftop ponds are another kind of green roof which are used to treat greywater. Vegetation, soil, drainage layer, roof barrier and irrigation system make up a green roof.

There are reasons why a building may have a green roof. The reasons include absorbing rainwater, providing insulation, creating a habitat for wildlife, increasing benevolence and decreasing stress of the people around the roof, and helping to lower urban air temperatures and go against the heat island effect. Green roofs are able to be added on old buildings as well as new buildings. They can be put on small garages or larger industrial, commercial and municipal buildings. They effectively use the natural abilities of plants to filter water and treat air in urban and suburban areas.

There are two types of green roof:

[[Anders P. Ravn]]

CATEGORIES: 1947 births, 2019 deaths, Danish writers, Computer scientists

Professor Anders Peter Ravn (29 October 1947 – 1 August 2019) was a Danish computer scientist.

Between 1969–73, Anders Ravn was a teaching assistant in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Copenhagen (DIKU). From 1972–76, he was a systems programmer on minicomputers at the early Danish computer company A/S Regnecentralen. 

He returned to academia and rose from assistant professor (1976–80) to associate professor (1980–84) at DIKU.

Ravn died on 1 August 2019 in Copenhagen at the age of 71.

[[David Berman (musician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, 2019 deaths, Suicides by hanging in the United States, American poets, American cartoonists, Singers from Virginia, Writers from Virginia, Singer-songwriters from Chicago

David Cloud Berman (born David Craig Berman; January 4, 1967 – August 7, 2019) was an American poet, cartoonist and singer-songwriter. He was best known for his work with indie-rock band the Silver Jews. 

In January 2009, Berman announced his retirement from music in hopes of finding a meaningful way of undoing the damage that his estranged father Richard (drug lobbyist) had done to society.

Berman had written and recorded with the Silver Jews, he has also released two books: Actual Air (1999) and The Portable February (2009). In early 2019, Berman returned to music under the new band name Purple Mountains, releasing an eponymous debut album in July 2019.

Berman lived in Chicago, Illinois. He was found dead at his Brooklyn apartment on August 7, 2019 at the age of 52. The cause of death was suicide by hanging.

[[Jorma Kinnunen]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2019 deaths, Finnish Olympic silver medalists

Jorma Vilho Paavali Kinnunen (15 December 1941 – 25 July 2019) was a Finnish athlete. He competed mainly in the javelin throw. He was born in Pihtipudas. He competed for Finland in the 1968 Summer Olympics held in Mexico City where he won the silver medal.

Kinnunen died after a long illness on 25 July 2019, aged 77.

[[Gergely Kulcsár]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, 2020 deaths, Hungarian sportspeople, Olympic silver medalists, Olympic bronze medalists

Gergely Kulcsár (10 March 1934 – 12 August 2020) a Hungarian javelin thrower. He competed at the 1960, 1964, 1968 and 1972 Olympics and won two bronze medals, in 1960 and 1968, and a silver medal in 1964.

He was the Olympic flag bearer for Hungary in 1964, 1968 and 1972.

[[Patton Brothers]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 1934 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from cancer, English comedians, Duos, English television personalities, People from Kent

The Patton Brothers, comprising Jimmy Elliott (20 August 1931 – 25 July 2019) and Brian Elliott (born 4 September 1934), were an English comedy double act and the two older brothers of Barry and Paul Elliott, the Chuckle Brothers. They began their career as a double act in 1954.

Both Jimmy and Brian made appearances in the children's television series ChuckleVision, alongside their younger brothers Paul and Barry. Jimmy is known as No Slacking due to the catchphrase.

For three months, all four brothers appeared together on the game show 3-2-1 with Ted Rogers on 17 April 1982 (Season 4, Episode 13), and also on New Faces. Afterwards, Jimmy and Brian returned to being the Patton Brothers.

On 25 July 2019, Jimmy died of cancer at the age of 87.

[[Arnie Brown]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2019 deaths, Toronto Maple Leafs players, New York Rangers players, Detroit Red Wings players, New York Islanders players, Atlanta Flames players, Sportspeople from Ontario, American Hockey League players, World Hockey Association players, Memorial Cup winners, Ice hockey defencemen

Stewart Arnold Brown (January 28, 1942 – July 26, 2019) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman. He played for the Toronto Maple Leafs, New York Rangers, Detroit Red Wings, New York Islanders, and Atlanta Flames.

After one season in the World Hockey Association (WHA), Brown retired in 1975.

Brown died on July 26, 2019 in North Kawartha, Ontario at the age of 77.

[[Jaime Lucas Ortega y Alamino]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pancreatic cancer, Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church, Cuban people

Jaime Lucas Ortega y Alamino ( 18 October 1936 – 26 July 2019) was a Cuban prelate of the Catholic Church. He was Archbishop of Havana from 1981 to 2016. He was appointed to the College of Cardinals in 1994, the second Cuban to hold that job.

During negotiations to renew diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba, Cardinal Ortega, without public announcement, visited the White House and hand-delivered a letter from Pope Francis to President Barack Obama.

Ortega was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in 2018. He died on 26 July 2019 in El Cobre, Cuba at the age of 82.

[[Kevin Roster]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths by euthanasia, People with cancer, American activists, Poker players, People from New York City

Kevin "Racks" Gene Roster Jr. (March 9, 1983 – July 26, 2019) was an American poker player and activist. He had terminal cancer who moved to California where he fought to protect the state's right-to-die legislation. He supports medical aid in dying.

He played in the 2019 World Series of Poker in the summer of 2019, and used the event as a platform to raise awareness about sarcoma and to encourage people to push for early detection and diagnosis.

Roster died via medical aid in dying in Rancho Cordova, California on July 26, 2019 at the age of 36.

[[Carlos Cruz-Diez]]

CATEGORIES: 1923 births, 2019 deaths, Artists, Venezuelan educators, People from Caracas

Carlos Cruz-Diez (17 August 1923 – 27 July 2019) was a Venezuelan artist. He was thought to be one of the greatest artist of the 20th century. He was best known for his kinetic and op art.

His teaching and art career was based between both Paris and Caracas. His work was represented in museums and public art sites internationally, such as Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), New York; Tate Modern, London; Musée d’Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris; Centre Pompidou, París; Museum of Fine Arts, Houston; Wallraf-Richartz Museum, Colonia, and others.

Cruz-Diez died on 27 July 2019 in Paris at the age of 95.

[[Biljana Plavšić]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Presidents of Republika Srpska, Members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Biljana Plavšić (Биљана Плавшић; born 7 July 1930) is a Serbian politician. She President of Republika Srpska who was indicted in 2001 by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) for war crimes committed during the Bosnian War. 

She plea-bargained with the ICTY and was sentenced to 11 years in prison in 2003.

She was released on 27 October 2009 after serving two-thirds of her sentence. Plavšić is, together with Radovan Karadžić, the highest ranking Bosnian Serb politician to be sentenced. 

[[Humphrey Mijnals]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, Dutch footballers, Surinamese sportspeople

Humphrey Mijnals (21 December 1930 – 27 July 2019) was a Surinamese-Dutch footballer. He played international football for both the Netherlands and Suriname.

He also played 45 times in the Suriname national football team. In 1999, he was elected Surinamese footballer of the century. On 24 August 2008, Mijnals also received Sports Medal of the city of Utrecht.

Mijnals died on 27 July 2019 in Utrecht at the age of 88.

[[Mike Roarke]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, 2019 deaths, American military personnel of the Korean War, Detroit Tigers players, St. Louis Cardinals players, San Diego Padres players, Sportspeople from Rhode Island, People from West Warwick, Rhode Island

Michael Thomas Roarke (November 8, 1930 – July 27, 2019) was an American catcher and coach in Major League Baseball. He threw and batted right-handed. He stood 6 tall and weighed 195. Roarke played for the Detroit Tigers, St. Louis Cardinals and the San Diego Padres.

Roarke died on July 27, 2019 in West Warwick, Rhode Island at the age of 88.

[[West Warwick, Rhode Island]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Rhode Island

West Warwick is a town in Kent County, Rhode Island, United States. The population was 29,191 at the 2010 census.

[[John Robert Schrieffer]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, American physicists, Criminals from Illinois, Scientists from Illinois, People from Oak Park, Illinois

PhysicsJohn Robert Schrieffer (ˈ; May 31, 1931 – July 27, 2019) was an American physicist. With John Bardeen and Leon Cooper, he was a recipient of the 1972 Nobel Prize in Physics. He was known for developing the BCS theory. It was the first successful quantum theory of superconductivity. 

In 2005, Schrieffer fell asleep while driving and received a sentence of two years in prison for vehicular manslaughter which killed one, and injured seven other people.

Schrieffer died on July 27, 2019 in Tallahassee, Florida at the age of 88.

[[Leon Cooper]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, American physicists, Scientists from New York City

PhysicsLeon N Cooper (born February 28, 1930) is an American physicist. He won the Nobel Prize for Physics  with John Bardeen and John Robert Schrieffer in 1972. He helped developed the BCS theory of superconductivity. 

He is also the namesake of the Cooper pair and co-developer of the BCM theory of synaptic plasticity.

[[Eduardo Gómez]]

CATEGORIES: 1951 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from laryngeal cancer, Spanish movie actors, Spanish television actors, Comedians, Actors from Madrid

Eduardo Gómez Manzano (27 July 1951 – 28 July 2019) was a Spanish actor and comedian. He was born in Madrid, Spain. He was know for his roles in Aquí no hay quien viva, La que se avecina and Butterfly's Tongue.

Gómez died from laryngeal cancer in Madrid on 28 July 2019 at the age of 68.

[[Vladimir Kara-Murza Sr.]]

CATEGORIES: 1959 births, 2019 deaths, Russian journalists, Television personalities, People from Moscow

Vladimir Alexeyevich Kara-Murza (Влади́мир Алексе́евич Кара́-Мурза́; 24 October 1959 – 28 July  2019)  was a Russian journalist and television host. He was born in Moscow. 

Kara-Murza died on 28 July 2019 in Moscow at the age of 59.

In 1992, with the onset of President Boris Yeltsin's democratic reforms, he joined the weekly Itogi programme on Channel One of Russian TV—first as editor, then as correspondent. 

In 1993, along with his colleagues, joined the newly created NTV, Russia's first independent television channel founded by Vladimir Gusinsky. In April 1995, Kara-Murza became the anchor of NTV's news programme Today at Midnight.

He was the father of opposition politician Vladimir Vladimirovich Kara-Murza.

[[Loek van Mil]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 births, 2019 deaths, Accidental deaths, Baseball players, People from Oss, Sportspeople from North Brabant

Ludovicus Jacobus Maria "Loek" van Mil (luːk vɑn mɪl; 15 September 1984 – 28 July 2019) was a Dutch professional baseball pitcher. At 7, he was one of the tallest players in the history of professional baseball.

He played for Curaçao Neptunus of the Honkbal Hoofdklasse and for the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles of the Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB).

On the Netherlands national baseball team he was the team's closer in the 2013 World Baseball Classic and the 2015 Premier 12 and appeared in the 2007 Baseball World Cup.

van Mil died on 28 July 2019 from problems caused by a hiking injury at the age of 34.

[[Jaipal Reddy]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from pneumonia, Indian politicians

Sudini Jaipal Reddy (16 January 1942 – 28 July 2019) was an Indian politician. He was the member of the Lok Sabha of India for five terms. 

He represented the Chevella constituency of Telangana and was a member of the Indian National Congress. 

He was a Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting in the I. K. Gujral cabinet in 1998. In 1999 he returned to Indian National Congress after 21 years. In 2004 he was re-elected to 14th Lok Sabha from Miryalaguda Lok Sabha Constituency and then he was a Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting and Union Minister for Urban Development in the United Progressive Alliance-1. 

In 2009 he was re-elected to the 15th Lok Sabha from the Chevella constituency and was a Union Minister for Urban Development and Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas. 

He was the Union Minister for the Ministry of Earth Sciences and the Ministry of Science and Technology from 29 October 2012 to 18 May 2014.

Reddy died on 28 July 2019 at a hospital in Hyderabad of pneumonia at the age of 77.

[[Ruth de Souza]]

CATEGORIES: 1921 births, 2019 deaths, Brazilian movie actors, Brazilian television actors, Deaths from pneumonia, People from Rio de Janeiro

Ruth de Souza (May 12, 1921 – July 28, 2019) was a Brazilian actress. She was born in Rio de Janeiro. de Souza was known for her roles in The Landowner's Daughter, Macumba Love and in A Glass of Rage.

de Souza died of pneumonia on July 28, 2019 in Copacabana, Brazil at the age of 98.

[[Copacabana, Rio de Janeiro]]

CATEGORIES: Neighborhoods, Rio de Janeiro

Copacabana (kɔpakɐˈbɐ̃nɐ, ko-, -pɐ-, -kaˈ-) is a bairro (neighbourhood) located in the South Zone of the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It is known for its 4 km (2.5 miles) balneario beach, which is one of the most famous in the world.

[[Egil Danielsen]]

CATEGORIES: 1933 births, 2019 deaths, Norwegian Olympians, Norwegian politicians, Living people, Medalists at the 1956 Summer Olympics

Egil Danielsen  (9 November 1933 – 29 July 2019) was a Norwegian javelin thrower. He was born in Hamar, Norway. He competed at the 1956 and 1960 Olympics. He won the gold medal in 1956. Danielsen set a new world record at 85.71 m and won the gold medal. He could never reproduce that throw. For his Olympic victory and world record Danielsen was selected Norwegian Sportsperson of the Year in 1956.

He retired after the 1960 Olympics and focused on his family and work at the Hamar Fire Brigade. In the 2000s he was a minor political candidate for the Norwegian Pensioner Party.

[[Enrique Lafourcade]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2019 deaths, Chilean writers, Critics, Chilean journalists, People from Santiago

Enrique Eduardo Lafourcade Valdenegro (14 October 1927 – 29 July 2019) was a Chilean writer, critic and journalist. He was born in Santiago de Chile. Lafourcade published at least 24 novels (over 30 by some accounts) and over a dozen anthologies and collections of short stories and essays. His novel Palomita Blanca (1971) sold over a million copies, making it one of the all-time best sellers in Chile. He worked for the newspaper agency El Mercurio.

Lafourcade died on 29 July 2019 in Santiago at the age of 91.

[[Vasil Metodiev]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Bulgarian footballers, Bulgarian football managers

Vasil Metodiev (Васил Методиев; (6 January 1935 – 29 July 2019) was a Bulgarian football midfielder. He played for Bulgaria in the 1966 FIFA World Cup. He also played for Lokomotiv Sofia. 

He was a coach of Levski Sofia, where he won three Bulgarian championships, two Bulgarian Cup titles, two Cup of the Soviet Army titles, including one treble. 

In 1984, as coach of Levski, he eliminated German champions VfB Stuttgart for the European Cup.

Metodiev died on 29 July 2019 in Sofia at the age of 84.

[[Mona-Liisa Nousiainen]]

CATEGORIES: 1983 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from cancer, Finnish Olympians

Mona-Liisa Nousiainen (née Malvalehto; 20 July 1983 – 29 July 2019) was a Finnish cross-country skier. He  competed in the World Cup between 2002 and 2018. Nousiainen was born in Rovaniemi, Finland. In 1999, she won the Finnish Championship in accordion playing. She studied at the Sibelius Academy.

She announced her retirement from cross-country skiing after not being selected for the 2018 Winter Olympics. Nousiainen died on 29 July 2019 of cancer at the age of 36.

[[Tuvya Ruebner]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2019 deaths, Czechoslovak people, Israeli academics, Jewish academics, Jewish Israeli writers, Naturalized citizens of Israel, People from Bratislava, Photographers, Poets, Refugees from Nazism, Slovakian Jews, Teachers, Translators

Tuvya Ruebner, also Rübner (טוביה ריבנר; 30 January 1924 – 29 July 2019) was an Israeli poet, editor, translator and photographer. He was born in Bratislava, Czechoslovakia. He became a member of kibbutz Merhavia. For many years he was a schoolteacher and later lectured on literature at Haifa University.

[[Zdeněk Srstka]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Olympians, Czech movie actors, People from Prague

Zdeněk Srstka (26 September 1935 – 29 July 2019) was a Czech actor, stuntman and weightlifter. He starred in the movie Poslední propadne peklu under director Ludvík Ráža in 1982. He was born in Prague. He competed for Czechoslovakia in the 1960 Summer Olympics with the result of ninth place.

Srstka died on 29 July 2019 in Prague at the age of 83.

[[Marcian Bleahu]]

CATEGORIES: 1924 births, 2019 deaths, Geologists, European geographers, Romanian writers, Romanian politicians

Marcian David (Matty) Bleahu (14 March 1924, Brașov – 30 July 2019, Bucharest) was a Romanian geologist, speleologist, geographer, alpinist, explorer, writer and politician. He was well known for his scientific works to the development of the theories of global tectonics. He was a member of the Romanian Senate from 1990 to 2000.

Bleahu died in Bucharest on 30 July 2019 at the age of 95.

[[Nick Buoniconti]]

CATEGORIES: 1940 births, 2019 deaths, American activists, Miami Dolphins players, Sportspeople from Massachusetts, People from Springfield, Massachusetts

Nicholas Anthony Buoniconti (December 15, 1940 – July 30, 2019) was an American professional football player. He was a middle linebacker in the American Football League (AFL) and National Football League (NFL). He played for the Boston Patriots and Miami Dolphins. He won two Super Bowls with the Dolphins. Buoniconti was added into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2001.

Buoniconti died on July 30, 2019, in Bridgehampton, New York, at the age of 78.

[[Deep Impact (horse)]]

CATEGORIES: 2002 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths by euthanasia, Racehorses

Deep Impact (Japanese : ディープインパクト, March 25, 2002 – July 30, 2019) was a champion Japanese racehorse that won seven Japanese Domestic Grade 1 races, including all races of Japanese Triple Crown (Satsuki Sho, Tokyo Yushun and Kikuka Sho).

On 30 July 2019, Deep Impact was euthanised after suffering a cervical fracture, aged 17.

[[W. Roy McCutcheon]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2019 deaths, Canadian educators

William Roy McCutcheon (July 31, 1929 – July 30, 2019) was a Canadian educator. He was the second president of Seneca College from 1984 through 1992. McCutcheon announced his retirement in 1991.

McCutcheon died on July 30, 2019, on the eve of his 90th birthday.

[[Werner von Moltke]]

CATEGORIES: 1936 births, 2019 deaths, German Olympians

Werner Konrad Graf von (count of) Moltke (24 May 1936 – 29/30 July 2019) was a German decathlete. He won a European title in 1966 and finished second in 1962. He competed at the 1968 Summer Olympics, but failed to finish. He was born in Mühlhausen, Germany.

Von Moltke died on 29 or 30 July 2019 in Nieder-Olm, Germany at the age of 83.

[[Michael Crawford]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, Living people, English movie actors, English television actors, English stage actors, English voice actors, English singers, Actors from Kent

Michael Patrick Smith, GBR (born 19 January 1942), known by the professional stage name of Michael Crawford, is an English actor, comedian and singer. He is known for his role as the title role in The Phantom of the Opera.

Since 1987, he has been the leader of the Sick Children's Trust as well and acted as a public face for the British social cause organization.

[[Martín Arzola Ortega]]

CATEGORIES: 1970s births, 2019 deaths, Murders by firearm, Mexican people, Criminals

Martín Arzola Ortega (maɾˈtin aɾˈsola oɾˈteɣa; 34 – 31 July 2019), commonly referred to by his alias "El 53", was a Mexican convicted drug lord. He was a high-ranking leader of the Jalisco New Generation Cartel (CJNG), a criminal group based in Jalisco. 

He worked under Nemesio Oseguera Cervantes (alias "El Mencho"), the alleged top leader of the CJNG. Arzola Ortega began his criminal career in 1998 as a cargo truck thief and eventually joined the Milenio Cartel, the predecessor group of the CJNG. 

After several of his bosses were arrested and/or killed, he founded the CJNG with other defectors in the 2010s. 

Arzonla Ortega died on 31 July 2019 in Zapopan, Jalisco after being shot dead at a mall, aged 42.

[[María Auxiliadora Delgado]]

CATEGORIES: 1937 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, First Ladies, Activists, People from Montevideo

María Auxiliadora Delgado San Martín (11 March 1937 – 31 July 2019) was an Uruguayan civil servant and health activist. She was the wife of President Tabaré Vázquez. She was First Lady of Uruguay from 2005 to 2010 and again from 1 March 2015 until her death on 31 July 2019.

Auxiliadora met her husband, Tabaré Vázquez, when he was just 16 years old, and she was 19 years old. She worked for the Caja de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (Pension Fund) for 32 years before her retirement.

Auxiliadora Delgado died of a heart attack on 31 July 2019 in Montevideo at the age of 82.

[[Raffaele Pisu]]

CATEGORIES: 1925 births, 2019 deaths, Italian movie actors, Italian television actors, Comedians, People from Bologna

Raffaele Pisu (24 May 1925 – 31 July 2019) was an Italian actor and comedian. In 2005, Pisu won the Nastro d'Argento for best supporting actor for his role in Paolo Sorrentino's The Consequences of Love.

[[Jean-Luc Thérier]]

CATEGORIES: 1945 births, 2019 deaths, French sportspeople, Racecar drivers

Jean-Luc Thérier (7 October 1945 – 31 July 2019) was a French rally driver. He was the highest scoring driver in the inaugural World Rally Championship in 1973. He was the only one to win three events. He was born in Hodeng-au-Bosc, France.

Thérier died from a long-illness on 31 July 2019 in Neufchâtel-en-Bray, France at the age of 73.

[[Butch Walker]]

CATEGORIES: 1969 births, Living people

Bradley Glenn "Butch Walker" (born November 14, 1969) is an American singer, songwriter, musician.

[[Black mustard]]

CATEGORIES: Brassicales

Black mustard  (Brassica nigra) is an annual plant grown for its seeds, which is commonly used as a spice. It is native to the Mediterranean, and has been cultivated for a very long time. With this cultivation it was also introduced to other regions of the world. 

[[Karl Glusman]]

CATEGORIES: 1988 births, American Christians, American movie actors, American television actors, American voice actors, Actors from New York City, Actors from Portland, Oregon, Jewish American actors, Living people

Karl Lewis Glusman (born January 3, 1988) is an American actor.

Glusman was born in New York City and raised in Portland, Oregon. His parents are of Ashkenazi Jewish, English, German, Irish, Luxembourgian and Swedish descent.

[[Tim Ryan]]

Tim, Timmy or Timothy Ryan may refer to:

[[Shrek (character)]]

CATEGORIES: Shrek characters, Fictional characters introduced in 1990, Fictional characters introduced in 2001, Tony Hawk's (series) guest characters

Shrek is the main character of the movie Shrek. He was first seen in the 1990 children’s book of the same name. He is often seen as grumpy.

He appears in all Shrek movies. He is voiced by Mike Myers.

[[Donkey (character)]]

CATEGORIES: Fictional animals, Fictional characters introduced in 1990, Fictional characters introduced in 2001, Shrek characters

Donkey (not known by any other name) is the second main character seen in the movie Shrek. He is seen as the overly-happy and annoying sidekick of Shrek.

He appears in all the Shrek movies. He is voiced by Eddie Murphy.

[[Mariam V. Agababjan]]

CATEGORIES: Botanists

Mariam Vladislavovna Aghababjan (born 1964) is an Armenian botanist, plant taxonomist, employee of the Institute of Botany of the National Academy of Sciences of Armenia. She described many species of the genus Rhaponticoides, which was isolated from the genus Centaurea.

In 1992, under the leadership of Armen Takhtajan, she defended her thesis on the topic “Typical subgenus Centaurea” . She described for science 48 species of plants.

This author is usually abbreviated «M.V.Agab.» when citing a botanical name.

[[Hasmukhbhai Parekh]]

CATEGORIES: 1911 births, 1994 deaths

Hasmukh Thakordas Parekh (10 March 1911 – 1994) was an Indian financial entrepreneur, writer, and philanthropist. He played a role in the development of Industrial Credit & Investment Corporation of India, now ICICI Bank, founded the Housing Development Finance Corporation, and in 1992 was awarded the Padma Bhushan for his contribution to the finance industry in India. The London School of Economics also conferred on him an honorary fellowship.

[[Misconception]]

CATEGORIES: Words

A misconception is a belief which is perhaps understandable, but wrong. 

For example, many people believe that Frankenstein is the name of the monster in the story Frankenstein, but Frankenstein is really the man who created the monster.

[[Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana]]

CATEGORIES: India

Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) is an initiative by the Government of India. It plans affordable housing for the urban poor. The target is to build 20 million affordable houses by 31 March 2022. 

The total number of funded houses approved so far is 39,25,240 in  urban areas. Five million rural houses will be built by March 2018 and 10 million rural houses by March 2019.

[[Islam in Bulgaria]]

CATEGORIES: Religion in Bulgaria, Islam by country

Islam is the second largest religion in Bulgaria, behind Christianity. Many sources believed that Islam is the religion of 13% of the Bulgarian population. The vast majority of Bulgarian Muslims are Turkish, while almost Bulgarians are Muslims after Turkish.

Bulgaria is the main leader of the European Union by percentage of Muslims.

[[Valle de la Luna (Chile)]]

CATEGORIES: Valleys

Valle de la Luna (Valley of Moon) is known for its moonlike landscape . It is located at Los Flamencos Reserve park, North Chile's Atacama Desert.

[[Fabrizio Saccomanni]]

CATEGORIES: 1942 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Italian economists, Politicians from Rome

Fabrizio Saccomanni (November 22, 1942 – August 8, 2019) was an Italian economist and politician. He was the deputy governor of the Bank of Italy. He was the Minister of Economy and Finances between April 2013 and February 2014. From April 13, 2018 until his death, Saccomanni was the chairman of UniCredit. He was born in Rome.

Saccomanni died of a heart attack in San Teodoro, Italy on August 8, 2019 at the age of 76.

[[Maimun Zubair]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2019 deaths, Indonesian people, Religious leaders

Sheikh Kyai Hajji Maimun Zubair (Jawi: ‎ميمون زبير‎‎‎‎‎‎; October 28, 1928 – August 6, 2019) was an Indonesian cleric. He was the murshid of Idrisiyya Shadhili in Sarang, Rembang Regency, Central Java. In 1967, Maimun created the Pondok Pesantren Al-Anwar in his home village, Karangmangu.

Zubair was a member of the Regional People's Representative Council (DPRD) of Rembang Regency from 1971 to 1978. He became a member of the People's Consultative Assembly of the Republic of Indonesia (MPR RI) from the Central Java envoy in 1987 and served until 1999.

Zubair was born in Rembang Regency, Central Java. He died on August 6, 2019 in Mecca, Saudi Arabia while performing a religious ceremony, aged 90.

[[Fabio Zerpa]]

CATEGORIES: 1928 births, 2019 deaths, Uruguayan entertainers, Stage actors, Radio personalities, Journalists, Researchers

Fabio Pedro Alles Zerpa (4 December 1928 – 7 August 2019) was a Uruguayan actor, journalist, parapsychologist and UFO researcher. He lived in Argentina from 1951 until his death. He was born in Rosario, Uruguay. Zerpa started to give his first conferences at the beginning of the 1960s.

In 1966, he created the radio program Más allá de la cuarta dimensión (Beyond the Fourth Dimension). From 2001 he was the director of the on-line magazine El Quinto Hombre (The Fifth Man). In December 2005 Zerpa was appointed cultural ambassador of the city of Colonia, Uruguay.

Zerpa died on 7 August 2019 in Buenos Aires, Argentina at the age of 90.

[[Jean-Pierre Mocky]]

CATEGORIES: 1929 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, French movie actors, French movie directors, French movie producers, French screenwriters, People from Nice

Jean-Pierre Mocky (6 July 1929 – 8 August 2019) pseudonym of Jean-Paul Adam Mokiejewski, was a French movie director, actor, screenwriter and producer. He was born in Nice, France. His 1987 movie Le Miraculé was entered into the 37th Berlin International Film Festival. He also directed Les Dragueurs and starred in the movie The Abandoned.

Mocky died at his home in Paris of kidney failure on 8 August 2019 at the age of 90.

[[Manfred Max-Neef]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, 2019 deaths, Chilean writers, Chilean politicians, Chilean educators, Chilean economists

Artur Manfred Max Neef (ˈmaɱfɾeð maks; 26 October 1932 – 8 August 2019) was a Chilean economist and politician. Max-Neef was born in Valparaíso, Chile. He was a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley in the early 1960s. He was known for his fundamental human needs and human scale development.

In 1983, he was awarded the Right Livelihood Award for "revitalising small and medium-sized communities through 'Barefoot Economics'." He ran for President in the 1993 election ending up in fourth place with 5.55% of the vote.

Max-Neef died on 8 August 2019 in Valdivia, Chile at the age of 86.

[[Stanisław Konturek]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, Polish educators, Physiologists, Polish scientists, Polish writers

Stanisław Jan Konturek (8 October 1931 – 8 August 2019) was a Polish physiologist and gastroenterologist. He was a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Polish Academy of Learning from 1986 until his death in 2019. He was a professor at the Jagiellonian University Collegium Medicum. He was born in Zakliczyn, Poland.

Konturek died on 8 August 2019 in Kraków, Poland at the age of 87.

[[Dany Carrel]]

CATEGORIES: 1932 births, Living people, French movie actors, French television actors, French stage actors

Yvonne Suzanne Chazelles de Chaxel, better known as Dany Carrel, (born 20 September 1932) is a French actress. She was born in Tourane, Annam,  French Indochina. She retired from acting in 1989. 

Carrel's best known roles were in Dortoir des grandes (1953), Women's Club (1956), People of No Importance (1956), Porte des Lilas (1957), Girls for the Summer (1958), The Goose of Sedan (1959), Mill of the Stone Women (1960), The Hands of Orlac (1960), Une souris chez les hommes (1964), A Trap for Cinderella (1965), La prisonnière (1968), Clérambard (1969), Trois milliards sans ascenseur (1972) and Schools Falling Apart (1981).

[[Ingeborg Schöner]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, Living people, German movie actors, German television actors, German stage actors

Ingeborg Schöner (born 2 July 1935) is a German actress. She was born in Wiesbaden, Hessen, Germany. Her career began in 1945. Her best known roles were in It Happened in Rome (1957), The First Day of Spring (1956) and King in Shadow (1957). 

Schöner also starred in The Captain and His Hero (1955), Souvenir d'Italie (1957), Venice, the Moon and You (1958), Adorable and a Liar (1958), The Cow and I (1959), Big Request Concert (1960), Buffalo Bill, Hero of the Far West (1964), Legacy of the Incas (1965), The Long Day of Inspector Blomfield (1968), Mark of the Devil (1970), Mr. Superinvisible (1970), Die Supernasen (1983) and Guten Tag, Ramon (2013).

[[Giuliano Montaldo]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Italian movie directors, Italian movie actors, Italian screenwriters, Television directors

Giuliano Montaldo (born 22 February 1930) is an Italian movie director, screenwriter and actor. He was born in Genoa, Italy. He starred in the movies Achtung! Banditi! (1951) and Gli Sbandati (1955). In 1960, he directed his first movie called Tiro al piccione.

His best known works as a director include: Una bella grinta, Grand Slam, Gott mit uns (1969), Sacco and Vanzetti (1971), Giordano Bruno (1973), Tempo di uccidere (1989–1991), and Marco Polo.

In 1971 he was a member of the jury at the 7th Moscow International Film Festival.

[[Giulio Paradisi]]

CATEGORIES: 1934 births, Living people, Italian movie directors, Italian screenwriters, Italian movie actors, Writers from Rome, Actors from Rome

Giulio Paradisi (born 21 March 1934) was an Italian movie director, actor and screenwriter. He was born in Rome. He began his career as an actor in Alessandro Blasetti's Too Bad She's Bad. His best known works as a director include: Terzo Canale - Avventura a Montecarlo (1970), The Visitor (1979), Tesoromio (1979) and Spaghetti House (1982).

[[Francesco Maselli]]

CATEGORIES: 1930 births, Living people, Italian screenwriters, Italian movie directors, Italian movie actors, Television directors, Actors from Rome, Writers from Rome

Francesco Maselli or Citto Maselli (born 9 December 1930) is an Italian movie director and screenwriter. He has directed 38 movies since 1949. His 1990 movie Il segreto was entered into the 40th Berlin International Film Festival. His other best known works include directing the movie Gli sbandati (1955) and for his acting role in The Name of the Rose (1986). Maselli was born in Rome.

[[George Gilder]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, Living people, American critics, American political writers, American economists, American conservatives, Writers from New York City

George Franklin Gilder (ˈ; born November 29, 1939) is an American investor, writer, economist, and technology enthusiast. He was born in New York City. Gilder is the co-founder of the Discovery Institute. His 1981 international bestseller Wealth and Poverty created a supporting case for supply-side economics and capitalism during the early months of the Reagan administration. He is a critic of feminism. 

[[Stu Rosen]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2019 deaths, Cancer deaths in California, American television directors, American television actors, American television producers, American voice actors, Puppeteers, American television writers, Writers from Illinois, Writers from California, Actors from Illinois, Actors from California, People from Joliet, Illinois

Stuart M. Rosen (June 26, 1939 – August 4, 2019) was an American voice director and actor. He was born in Joliet, Illinois. He was best known for directing MASK, Hulk Hogan's Rock 'n' Wrestling, the first episodes of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, The Legend of Prince Valiant,  Super Secret Secret Squirrel, 2 Stupid Dogs, and Biker Mice from Mars. An actor, he was best known for as the voice of the storyteller in Fraggle Rock: The Animated Series.

Rosen died on August 4, 2019 in Los Alamitos, California, at the age of 80, from cancer.

[[Sag Harbor, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Sag Harbor is an incorporated village in Suffolk County, New York, United States. It is located near Long Island. The population was 2,169 at the 2010 census.

[[Prime Minister of Malawi]]

CATEGORIES: Heads of government, Lists of prime ministers, Prime Ministers by country, Malawi

[[Zita of Bourbon-Parma]]

CATEGORIES: 1892 births, 1989 deaths, Italian Roman Catholics, House of Habsburg-Lorraine, Austrian Roman Catholics, Hungarian Roman Catholics, Servants of God

Zita of Bourbon-Parma (Zita Maria delle Grazie Adelgonda Micaela Raffaela Gabriella Giuseppina Antonia Luisa Agnese; 9 May 1892 – 14 March 1989) was the last Empress of Austria. She was the wife of Charles I of Austria She was born a princess of the Duchy of Parma.

[[Leo Ortolani]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Italian writers, Cartoonists, People from Pisa, Living people

Leonardo Ortolani (born 14 January 1967), better known as Leo, is an Italian comics author. He is known as the creator of the popular comic strip series Rat-Man and Venerdì 12.

[[Cathedral Quarter, Belfast]]

CATEGORIES: Quarters of Belfast

The Cathedral Quarter is an area in Belfast, Northern Ireland. It is around St Anne's Cathedral.

[[Johnson County Community College]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in Kansas, 1969 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Kansas, Johnson County, Kansas

Johnson County Community College (JCCC) is a public community college in Overland Park in Johnson County, Kansas. 

[[De Soto, Kansas]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Johnson County, Kansas, 1857 establishments in Kansas Territory, Cities in Leavenworth County, Kansas

De Soto d is a city in Johnson and Leavenworth counties in the U.S. state of Kansas. It is part of the Kansas City Metropolitan Area. Most of the city, 11.13, is in Johnson County. In 2010, 5,720 people lived there.

[[Ottawa University]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s establishments in Kansas, 1865 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Kansas

Ottawa University (OU) is a private Baptist liberal arts university in Ottawa, Kansas. It has other campuses in other places throughout the Unites States. It was created in 1865. It is grouped with the American Baptist Churches USA. Ottawa has about 700 students on its main campus in Ottawa, 500 on its campus in Surprise, and about 4,000 students across all of its campuses and online.

[[Wichita State University]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 establishments in Kansas, Wichita State University

Wichita State University (WSU) is a public research university in Wichita, Kansas, United States. It is governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.

Wichita State University offers more than 60 undergraduate degree programs in more than 200 areas of study in six colleges. The Graduate School offers 44 master's degrees in more than 100 areas and a specialist in education degree. It offers doctoral degrees in applied mathematics; audiology; chemistry; communicative disorders and sciences; nursing practice; physical therapy; psychology (programs in human factors, community and APA-accredited clinical psychology); educational administration; aerospace, industrial and mechanical engineering; and electrical engineering and computer science.

Wichita State University also has classes at four other campuses. WSU West is in Maize. This 9 campus has 80–100 university classes each academic semester. WSU South began started Wichita State University courses at a new facility in Derby in January 2008. The WSU Downtown Center has the university's Center for Community Support & Research and the Department of Physical Therapy. A quarter-mile northeast of campus, the Advanced Education in General Dentistry buildinghass classrooms and a dental clinic. It was built in 2011. It is next to the university's 75000 Eugene M. Hughes Metropolitan Complex, where many of WSU noncredit courses are taught.

[[Washburn University]]

CATEGORIES: 1860s establishments in Kansas, 1865 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Kansas, Topeka, Kansas

Washburn University (WU) is a co-educational, public university in Topeka, Kansas, United States. It has undergraduate and graduate programs. It also has professional programs in law and business. Washburn has 550 faculty members. There are more than 6,100 undergraduate students and nearly 800 graduate students. The university's assets include a $158 million endowment.

[[Opportunity zone]]

CATEGORIES: Taxation, United States

An opportunity zone is a geographic area in the United States where investments are exempt from Captial Gains tax. The concept of opprtunity zone was introduced in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 by the Trump administration. They are similar to Enterprise zones, a concept introduced in the 1980s in the United Kingdom.

In the United Kingdom  enterprise zones were meant to make it easier for people living living there to start a business and to provide tax incentives to encourage locals to invest in them.

In the United States empowerment zones were introduced  in 1993  to allow local governments to compete  for grants and tax incentives. The 2017 law allows state governors to designate up to 25% of low-income census tracts in their state as opportunity zones. There are 8,700 opportunity zones  in the United States. They cover 35 million Americans. Investors in those zones can defer capital gains tax until 2026. This helps investors lower their tax burden.

[[Fort Hays State University]]

CATEGORIES: 20th-century establishments in Kansas, 1902 establishments in the United States, Colleges and universities in Kansas

Fort Hays State University (FHSU) is a public university in Hays, Kansas. It is the third-biggest of the six state universities governed by the Kansas Board of Regents. They have about 15,100 students (4,648 on campus, 6,882 online, 3,570 Chinese program).

[[Delaware River (Kansas)]]

CATEGORIES: Rivers of Kansas

The Delaware River (originally called the Grasshopper River) is a 94 river in the northeastern part of the state of Kansas. The Delaware River basin drains 1117 from the water of Perry Lake reservoir. The river is a Category 1 watershed by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment. This means that the watershed needs to be restored and protected. The river is one of the major tributaries of the Kansas River.

[[Tornado outbreak sequence of June 1966]]

CATEGORIES: Topeka, Kansas, 1966 in the United States, Tornadoes in the United States, Tornado outbreaks, 20th century in Kansas

The Tornado outbreak sequence of June 1966 was a series of tornado outbreaks which happened between June 2 and June 12.

The worst tornado of this event happened on the early evening of Wednesday, June 8, 1966. This was when Topeka, Kansas was hit by an F5 rated tornado. It started in the southwest Topeka, and it moved northeast. It went through several neighborhoods and over a local landmark named Burnett's Mound. 57 tornadoes were confirmed during the 11-day span, which left 18 people dead and 543 injured.

[[Small Talk (song)]]

CATEGORIES: 2019 songs, Katy Perry songs, Pop songs

"Small Talk" is a song by American recording artist Katy Perry.  It was released on August 9, 2019.  A music lyric video was released the same day. Perry wrote the song with Jacob Kasher Hindlin, Johan Carlsson, and singer Charlie Puth, while Puth and Carlsson produced it.  Peter Karlsson produced the song's vocals. It is a pop song. 

[[Bandhan Bank]]

CATEGORIES: 2015 establishments in India, Companies of India, Banks, Kolkata

Bandhan Bank is an Indian private bank. It's headquarter is at Kolkata, West Bengal. The bank's core business is short-term microfinance. Currently, the bank is present in 34 Indian states and union territories.

[[Brian Kobilka]]

CATEGORIES: 1955 births, Living people, Physiologists, Scientists from Minnesota, Stanford University faculty

Brian Kent Kobilka (born May 30, 1955) is an American physiologist. He is best known for his work with G protein-coupled receptors, for which he was awarded the 2012 Nobel Prize for Chemistry with Robert Lefkowitz.He is currently a professor in the department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology at Stanford University School of Medicine. He was named a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 2011.  

[[Serranilla Bank]]

CATEGORIES: Atolls, Caribbean islands, Colombia, Territorial disputes, Geography of Colombia, Geography of the Caribbean, Island insular areas of the United States, Islands of the United States, United States Minor Outlying Islands

Serranilla Bank is an atoll in the southeastern Carribean. It is approximately 400 northeast of  Nicaragua. Only the eastern and southern part of the reef are visible. The bank is made of several cays, and has a size of about 45 by 37.  It covers an area of about 1200.Many parts of the coral reef are dry at low tide. The ocean has a depth of between 9 and 37 in most parts.

Northeast Breaker is a rock formation located about 2 from the eastern rim.

East Cay is a small island, about 5.5 wast of the eastern rim. It is covered with bushes.

Beacon Cay is the biggest island of trhe bank. It is about 14 southwest of East Cay. It is a sandy island, with some coral rock formations. It is coverted with bushes. Grass grows in some places. Between 30 and 50 coconut palms grow of the island. There is a daymark made of corals at the western end. There are some buildings. There's also an active lighthouse which has been in use since 1977. It is made of steel. The lighthouse is probably operated by Colombian authorities.

Middle Cay is a small island, made of sand. It is about 3.5 west of East Cay.

West Beaker is a rock formation about 15 west of Beacon Cay. The rock formation is dangerous for ships, because it is only about 0.5 above the water surface, on a platform, made of corals. Sailors mentioned in 1985, that the maps of the time were inaccurate, and that the rocks extend another 3.5 westward.

[[Daymark]]

CATEGORIES: Navigation

A daymark is a sign used to help people navigate in lakes, rivers, or the ocean. It is fixed, but does not meet the criteria of a lighthouse. Very often, it is there for orientation, or to regulate traffic.

[[Charles Oser]]

CATEGORIES: 1902 births, 1994 deaths, Federal Chancellors of Switzerland

Charles Oser (17 February 1902 – 29 March 1994) was a Swiss politician. He was a member of the Free Democratic Party of Switzerland (FDP). He was the 10th Chancellor of Switzerland from 1951 to 1967.

[[Oskar Leimgruber]]

CATEGORIES: 1886 births, 1976 deaths, Federal Chancellors of Switzerland

Oskar Leimgruber (5 July 1886 – 19 July 1976) was a Swiss politician. He was a member of the Christian Democratic People's Party (CVP). He was the 9th Chancellor of Switzerland from 1944 to 1951.

[[University of Fribourg]]

CATEGORIES: Colleges and universities in Switzerland

The University of Fribourg (Université de Fribourg; Universität Freiburg) is a university in Fribourg, Switzerland.

[[University of Neuchâtel]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century establishments in Switzerland, 1838 establishments in Europe, Colleges and universities in Switzerland

The University of Neuchâtel (UniNE) is a university in Neuchâtel, Switzerland.

[[University of Zurich]]

CATEGORIES: 19th century establishments in Switzerland, 1833 establishments, Colleges and universities in Switzerland, Zürich

The University of Zurich (UZH, Universität Zürich), located in the city of Zürich, is the largest university in Switzerland, with about 25,000 students. It was founded in 1833 and has seven faculties.

[[Ernie Colón]]

CATEGORIES: 1931 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from colorectal cancer, Cancer deaths in New York, American comics artists, People from San Juan, Puerto Rico

Ernie Colón (July 13, 1931 – August 8, 2019) was an American comics artist. He was known for drawing comic books relating to superheroes, horror and politics. He was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Colón was best known for his works Arak, Son of Thunder, Amethyst, Princess of Gemworld, Casper the Friendly Ghost, Richie Rich, SpyCat and The 9/11 Report: A Graphic Adaptation.

Colón died August 8, 2019 in Huntington, New York from colorectal cancer at the age of 88.

[[Huntington, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

The Town of Huntington is a town in Suffolk County, New York, United States. It was founded in 1653. It is located on the north shore of Long Island. Huntington is part of the New York metropolitan area. As of the United States 2010 Census, the town population was 203,264.

[[Dave Parks]]

CATEGORIES: 1941 births, 2019 deaths, American football wide receivers, American inventors, San Francisco 49ers players, New Orleans Saints players, Tennessee Titans players, Businesspeople from Texas

David Wayne Parks (December 25, 1941 – August 8, 2019) was an American football wide receiver/end in the NFL. He played for the San Francisco 49ers from 1964 to 1967, the New Orleans Saints from 1968 to 1972 and for the Houston Oilers in 1973. He was born in Muenster, Texas.

Parks died on August 8, 2019 in Austin, Texas at the age of 77.

[[Fahrudin Jusufi]]

CATEGORIES: 1939 births, 2019 deaths, Serbian footballers

Fahrudin Jusufi (Фахрудин Јусуфи; 8 December 1939 – 9 August 2019) was a Yugoslavian footballer. He played for the national team from 1959 to 1967. He played as a full-back. Jusufi also played for Partizan from 1957 to 1970 and for Eintracht Frankfurt from 1970 to 1972. Jusufi was born in Dragaš, Kingdom of Yugoslavia.

Jusufi died on 9 August 2019 in Hamburg, Germany at the age of 79.

[[Spitsbergen]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Norway, Arctic islands

Spitsbergen (which is also spelled Spitzbergen) is the largest island of the archipelago Svalbard. It was called West Spitsbergen until 1965. The name East Spitsbergen was proposed for the third-largest island of the group, Edgeøya.

Today, it is the only island on Svalvard which is settled permanently. The island has a size of about 380 by 220

There are only few active settlements on Spitsbergen, among them

There are several abandoned ones:

[[Liu Yifei]]

CATEGORIES: 1987 births, Chinese movie actors, Living people, Actors from New York City, American pop singers, American movie actors, American television actors, Chinese singers, Chinese television actors, Singers from New York City, People who lost Chinese citizenship

Liu Yifei (刘亦菲, born An Feng; August 25, 1987), also known as Crystal Liu, is a Chinese-American actress, singer, and model. She was born in Wuhan, Hubei, China, and graduated from the Beijing Film Academy in 2002. She played the role of Mulan in The Walt Disney Company's 2020 live-action movie Mulan.

[[Selective mutism]]

Selective mutism (also referred as SM) is an anxiety disorder where a person normally cannot speak in specific situations, specific places, or to specific people if a certain condition is triggered. Selective mutism usually occurs while the person has a social anxiety disorder. Children and adults with selective mutism are fully capable of speech and understanding language but simply cannot speak because they physically cannot speak in certain settings. People with selective mutism stay silent even when the consequences of their silence include shame, social rejection, or punishment. 

[[Islip, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

Islip is a town in Suffolk County, New York.

[[Holtsville, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Hamlets in New York, Census-designated places in New York (state)

Holtsville is a hamlet and census-designated place (CDP) in Suffolk County, New York, United States. The population was 19,714 at the 2010 census.

[[Davidson, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Davidson is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Babylon (village), New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Babylon is a village in Suffolk County, New York, United States. The population was 12,166 at the 2010 census. It is about 25 from New York City at the Queens border, and about 33 from Manhattan.

[[Deer Creek, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Deer Creek is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Jefferson, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Jefferson is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Lamont, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Lamont is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Manchester, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Manchester is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Nash, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Nash is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Centerville, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

Centerville is a town in Allegany County, New York, United States. The population was 822 at the 2010 census.

[[Alfred (town), New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

Alfred is a town in Allegany County, New York.

[[Alfred (village), New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Alfred is a village in Allegany County, New York.

[[Delaware, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Delaware is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Devol, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Devol is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Randlett, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Randlett is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Temple, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Temple is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Dewar, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Dewar is a town of Oklahoma, in the United States.

[[Winchester, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Winchester is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[New Lebanon, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

New Lebanon is a town in Columbia County, New York, United States. It is about 24 southeast of Albany. In 1910, 1,378 people lived in New Lebanon. The population was 2,305 at the 2010 census.

[[Lorenz Park, New York]]

CATEGORIES: Census-designated places in New York (state)

Lorenz Park is a census-designated place (CDP) in Columbia County, New York, United States. The population was 2,053 at the 2010 census.

[[Wyandotte, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Wyandotte is a town of Oklahoma in the United States. It lies approximately one mile south of US Highway 60. Its name was derived from the Wyandotte tribe. They were removed from the area in 1867.

[[North Miami, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

North Miami is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[North Enid, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

North Enid is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Dibble, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Dibble is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Dover, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Dover is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Smith Village, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Smith Village is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Dickson, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Dickson is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Dill City, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Oklahoma

Dill City is a city in Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Foss, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Foss is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Drummond, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Drummond is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Émile Guillemin]]

CATEGORIES: 1841 births, 1907 deaths, Artists from Paris, French sculptors, French painters

Émile Coriolan Hippolyte Guillemin (16 October 1841 – 1907) was a French sculptor of the Belle Époque. He worked in bronze. He studied under his father, the painter Auguste Guillemin, and under Jean-Jules Salmson. He showed work at the Salon of Paris from 1870 to 1899, and in 1897 received an honourable mention at Musée du Louvre de Paris.

His equestrian sculpture, Cavalier Arabe is signed both by him and by Alfred Barye

[[Nordaustlandet]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Norway, Uninhabited islands

Nordaustlandet (translates to Northeast land) ist the second biggest island of Svalbard. It lies to the northeast of Spitsbergen, which is the biggest island of the group, and the only islands with permanent settlements. Northeast land is about 170 by 125. It is uninhabited, and there are no settlements on it. During World War II, Germans operated a weather station.

[[Edgeøya]]

CATEGORIES: Islands of Norway, Uninhabited islands

Edgeøya is the third-largest island of Svalbard. It is east of Spitsbergen. Today, the island is uninhabited, but there are traces of human settlements: The Pomors left some huts, and probably came there in the 16th century. There are also abandoned whaling stations.

[[John Margetson]]

CATEGORIES: 1927 births, 2020 deaths, British politicians, Knights Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George, Ambassadors to the United Nations

Sir John William Denys Margetson (9 October 1927 – 19 October 2020) was a British politician. He was the British Ambassador to Vietnam from 1978 to 1980, the United Nations from 1983 to 1984, and the Netherlands from 1984 to 1988.

He was appointed CMG in 1979 and knighted KCMG in 1986.

Margetson died on 19 October 2020 at the age of 93.

[[Jessie Reyez]]

CATEGORIES: 1991 births, Living people, Canadian singer-songwriters, Canadian pop singers, Musicians from Toronto

Jessie Reyez (born June 12, 1991) is a Canadian singer and songwriter. She provided vocals on one of DJ Calvin Harris’s songs. She will be releasing the album Before Love Came to Kill Us.

[[Capita]]

CATEGORIES: 1984 establishments in the United Kingdom, Companies of the United Kingdom, Companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, City of Westminster

Capita plc, commonly known as Capita, is an international business process outsourcing and professional services company headquartered in London.

It is the largest business process outsourcing and professional services company in the UK, with an overall market share of 29% in 2016, and has clients in central government, local government and the private sector. Roughly half of its turnover comes from the private sector and half from the public sector. Whilst UK-focused, Capita also has operations across Europe, Africa and Asia.

It is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.

Capita was founded in 1984 as a part of the non-profit CIPFA (Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy).

[[CVC Capital Partners]]

CATEGORIES: 1981 establishments in the United Kingdom, Companies of the United Kingdom, Finance, London, Luxembourg City

CVC Capital Partners is a leading British private equity firm with about US$111 billion in secured commitments since inception across European and Asian private equity, credit and growth funds. In total, the CVC Group manages US$70 billion of assets. Since 1981, CVC has completed over 300 investments across a wide range of industries and countries. CVC was founded in 1981 and today has over 400 employees working across its network of 24 offices throughout Europe, Asia and the Americas.

[[Dougherty, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Dougherty is a town in Murray County, Oklahoma, United States. The population was 215 at the 2010 census. American jazz and pop singer Kay Starr was born here.

[[Dustin, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Dustin is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Lamar, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Lamar is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Spaulding, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

Spaulding is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Solar Higri Calendar]]

CATEGORIES: Calendars, Iranian culture, Afghan society and culture

The Solar Hijri calendar is the official calendar of Iran and Afghanistan .It is only used in Iran and Afghanistan . It begins on the March equinox (Nowruz) at the Iranian standard meridian (52.5°E, UTC+03:30) and has years of 365 or 366 days. It is abbreviated as SH. It is also called the Solar Hejri calendar and (gāh-shomāri-ye hejri-ye khorshidi; لمريز لېږدیز کلیز),

Each of the twelve months corresponds with a zodiac sign. The first six months have 31 days, the next five have 30 days, and the last month has 29 days in usual years but 30 days in leap years. The New Year's Day always falls on the March equinox.

[[K. T. Shah]]

CATEGORIES: Alumni of the London School of Economics, Indian politicians

The Election Commission of India held the first presidential elections of India on May 2, 1952. Dr. Rajendra Prasad won his first election with 507,400 votes (83.81%) over his nearest rival K. T. Shah who got 92,827 votes (15.3%).

[[Noxubee County, Mississippi]]

CATEGORIES: 1833 establishments in Mississippi, Mississippi counties

Noxubee County is a county found in the U.S. state of Mississippi. As of the 2010 census, 11,545 people lived there. Its county seat is Macon.

[[Francis Fonseca]]

CATEGORIES: 1967 births, Living people, Belizean politicians

Francis William Fonseca (born 11 March 1967) is a Belizean politician  who is the current Member of Parliament (MP) for Freetown constituency since 5 March 2003. He previously served as leader of the People's United Party (PUP) and as Leader of the Opposition of Belize from 2011 to 2016. First elected to the Belize House of Representatives in 2003, Fonseca served as Attorney General and Minister of Education, Culture and Labour in Prime Minister Said Musa's cabinet from 6 March 2003 until 9 February 2008, when the PUP lost the general election to the opposition United Democratic Party (UDP). Fonseca also served as the Chairman of the People's United Party (PUP) from 6 March 2003 to 22 February 2008. Fonseca was one of only six PUP area representatives nationwide to retain his seat in the National Assembly in the 2008 election.

Following the election defeat and subsequent resignation of Musa as prime minister and PUP leader on 30 March 2008, the party held a 2008 People's United Party (Belize) leadership election and convention to select its new leader. The party held it's nomination day on 21 February 2008 and the actual day for it's leadership election and convention on 30 March 2008. Fonseca along with second deputy leader of the PUP, Johnny Briceño stood as candidates for the party leadership at the convention, Fonseca was nominated by the United Woman's Group and several other constituency committees including Cayo West, Cayo North, Cayo South, Pickstock, Dangriga, Stann Creek West, Toledo East and Toledo West. Fonseca was thought to be the candidate preferred by the party establishment. He had the endorsements of former Prime minister, Said Musa and George Cadle Price. Fonseca also had the support of First Deputy Leader, Juan Vildo Marin and former Tourism minister, Godfrey Smith as well as from Secretary General, Henry Usher and Communication Director, Yasser Musa. Fonseca's campaigned for Leadership of the party has, to say the least, taken a life of its own. On 31 March 2008, results were announced and Fonseca was defeated by Briceño  receiving 310 votes against 330 for Briceño. In Briceño acceptance speech after getting the results, Briceño acknowledged Fonseca and said “To Francis my brother, my friend, my college I offer my thanks for being a worthy opponent and a true and honourable man”.  Following the resignation of Briceño as PUP leader on 7 October 2011, another 2011 People's United Party leadership election and convention was called. The party held it's nominations on 9 October 2011 and this time, both Fonseca and Albert Area Representative, Mark Espat submitted their nominations and ultimately stood as candidates for the party's leadership. However, this time the game was different. Fonseca campaigned well and sighted insecurity in the PUP that he will address if elected leader. After results were announced on 2 November 2011, it was made clear that Fonseca had emerged victorious over Espat. After he got into the leadership realms, Fonseca focused on delivering his promise and preparing the PUP for the 2012 general election. During the 2012 election campaign, he supported on further oil exploration and pledged a moratorium over continued exploration.

[[Mostar]]

CATEGORIES: Cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Mostar is the fifth largest city in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In 2019 the city had a total population of 104,518.

[[Invasive]]

Invasive may refer to:

[[Board of Control for Cricket in India]]

CATEGORIES: Cricket in India

The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is the national governing body for cricket in India. The board was formed in December 1928 as a society, registered under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act. It is a consortium of state cricket associations and the state associations select their representatives who in turn elect the BCCI Chief.

[[East Duke, Oklahoma]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in Oklahoma

East Duke is a town of Oklahoma in the United States.

[[Constantia (town), New York]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New York

Constantia is a town in Oswego County, New York.

[[Mexico (village), New York]]

CATEGORIES: Villages in New York

Mexico is a village in Oswego County, New York.

[[Becca's Bunch]]

CATEGORIES: Children's television series

Becca’s Bunch Is Show For Children That Aires On Nick Jr As Of July 2, 2018 ABC Kids (US)

Characters

[[List of Becca's Bunch characters]]

CATEGORIES: Lists of fictional characters

These Are Characters From Becca’s Bunch

Characters

Bunch

[[Harmon Northrop Morse]]

CATEGORIES: 1848 births, 1920 deaths, American chemists, Scientists from Vermont

Harmon Northrop Morse (October 15, 1848 – September 8, 1920) was an American chemist. He is known as the creator of paracetamol, a pain reliever.

[[Open Publication License]]

CATEGORIES: Free content licenses, Open content

The Open Publication License (OPL) is a public copyright license for documents, it was published by the Open Content Project in 1999 to replace the Open Content License, which was published in 1998.

[[ISO image]]

CATEGORIES: Computer file formats

An ISO image is an archive file that contains data to be written to an optical disc including the optical disc file system.

[[Herut]]

CATEGORIES: Former political parties in Israel, Zionist parties

The Herut Party (Herut means freedom in Hebrew) is a right-wing Zionist political party in Israel.  Herut was founded by Menachem Begin following Israel's independence in 1948.  Herut believed that all of British Mandatory Palestine belonged to the Jews. Herut was opposed to Israel accepting money from West Germany as an apology for the Holocaust. Herut believed security was very important.  Israel's first Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion thought Herut was radical and he compared Menachem Begin and the other members of the Herut party to Adolf Hitler and the Nazis.  Herut's leader Menachem Begin was not a Socialist so he formed an alliance with the Liberal Party to create the Liberal-Freedom Bloc known in Hebrew as Gush Herut Liberalim or Gahal.

[[2008 People’s United Party (Belize) leadership election and convention]]

CATEGORIES: Politics of Belize, 2008 elections

The 2008 People’s United Party leadership election and convention was held on 30 March 2008. It was triggered when the leader of the People’s United Party (PUP), Said Musa, announced on 13 February 2008 that he would resign as leader of the PUP as soon as the next leader of the party was elected. His decision came after Musa led his party into a landslide loss in the 2008 Belizean general election over the opposition, the United Democratic Party (UDP). In that election, he was one of six Area Representatives nationwide to retain their seats in the election.

Nominations were opened on Friday, 22 February 2008. Three candidates were nominated. The first endorsement ballot of MPs was on 13 March 2008. Exhaustive ballots on 20 and 25 March 2008 reduced the candidates to two. The general membership of the party elected the leader by postal ballot. The result was announced on 31 March 2008. Johnny Briceño was elected as leader with almost 20 more votes than his opponent Francis Fonseca.

People stsrted thinking about a leadership election and convention after the party’s poor showing at the 2006 Belizean municipal election. Musa called it in to fill vacancies for town councils in Corozal, Orange Walk, and San Pedro.

[[Barraba, New South Wales]]

CATEGORIES: Towns in New South Wales

Barraba is a village in New South Wales, Australia. This village is in the New England region and it is in the local government area of Tamworth Regional Council. This village is also in the Bundarra-Barraba Important Bird Area. This area is for the conservation of an endangered bird, the Regent Honeyeater (Anthochaera phrygia).

Barraba is 477 kilometres (296 miles) north-west from Sydney and 548 kilometres (341 miles) south-west from Brisbane. Barraba is 90 kilometres (56 miles) north from Tamworth, which is the nearest city. The Manilla River flows next to Barraba. This village is on a road called Fossickers Way and it is in a mountain range called the Nandewar Range at an altitude of 500 metres (1,640 feet) above sea level.

[[Ben Wallace (politician)]]

CATEGORIES: 1970 births, Living people, British Army officers, Conservative MPs (UK), Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Politicians from Kent, Privy Councillors (UK), Scottish Parliament Members, Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, UK MPs 2005–2010, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–

Robert Ben Lobban Wallace (born 15 May 1970) is a British politician. He has been the Secretary of State for Defence since 24 July 2019. He was the UK’s longest-serving Minister of State for Security and Economic Crime from 2016 to 2019. Wallace is a member of the Conservative Party. He has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Wyre and Preston North since the 2010 United Kingdom general election. 

Wallace was first elected as the MP for Lancaster and Wyre in the 2005 United Kingdom general election. He was a Captain in the British Army.

[[Mark Carney]]

CATEGORIES: 1965 births, Living people, Canadian writers, Irish writers, British economists

Mark Joseph Carney (born March 16, 1965) is a Canadian-born British-Irish economist and banker. He has been Governor of the Bank of England since 2013 and was Chairman of the Financial Stability Board from 2011 to 2018.

[[Robert Buckland]]

CATEGORIES: 1968 births, Living people, Conservative MPs (UK), Lord Chancellors, Members of the British House of Commons for English constituencies, Privy Councillors (UK), Secretaries of State of the United Kingdom, UK MPs 2010–2015, UK MPs 2015–2017, UK MPs 2017–2019, UK MPs 2019–

Robert James Buckland GBR (born 22 September 1968) is a British politician. He has been the Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice since July 2019. He is a member of the Conservative Party. He has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Swindon South since the 2010 United Kingdom general election.

[[Najm ad-Din Ayyub]]

CATEGORIES: 1173 deaths, Ayyubid dynasty

Najm ad-Din Ayyub (Arabic: نجم الدين أيوب) (died August 9, 1173) was a Kurdish soldier and politician from Dvin ( capital of early medieval Armenia ) His son was Saladin (Salah ah-Din), He is eponymous ancestor of the Ayyubid dynasty.

[[Ægypt]]

CATEGORIES: 1980s books, 1990s books, 2000s books

Ægypt  is a series of four novels written by American author John Crowley. 

[[Devil May Cry]]

CATEGORIES: Devil May Cry, Video game series

The Devil May Cry series is a hack and slash video game series where the player fights demons using both melee weapons and firearms. The video game series has five main games and one reboot game.

For most of the series, the player plays as Dante, a demon-hunter who is half-human and half-demon. The player earns upgrades, learns new moves, and buys items using Red Orbs, a pickup the player gets by exploring the level and killing enemies. The player gets more Red Orbs from enemies by getting a higher Combo Ranking. The player increases their Combo Ranking by killing multiple enemies quickly without getting hurt and by using many different attacks in a short amount of time.

Interestingly enough, the first Devil May Cry game was supposed to be Resident Evil 4. However, the game became so different from earlier Resident Evil games that the development team decided that the game should be a new IP instead of a Resident Evil game. The first Devil May Cry game sold well and got good reviews. Due to the game's popularity, it had several sequels and inspired other hack and slash games like Bayonetta.

Despite the first game getting good reviews, the sequel, Devil May Cry 2, got poor reviews. Nonetheless, since the second game sold well there was enough money to make Devil May Cry 3, which got many good reviews, although it got some criticisms for being such a difficult game. Devil May Cry 4 also got good reviews, and the difficulty was made a little easier so that more people could enjoy it, but it was criticized for reusing levels instead of making more levels. Worried that the game series could lose its appeal to video game players if it did not change the game series much, Capcom hired a British game developer named Ninja Theory to reboot the game series with DmC: Devil May Cry. The game was loosely based on the story of the earlier games, but the game had a much darker tone and Dante's look and personality was changed a lot. While the game got positive reviews from professional critics, it was criticized very heavily by fans of the series, who did not like Dante's new look and personality. Due to harsh criticisms from the fans, Capcom decided to continue the original series by making Devil May Cry 5.

[[Gahal]]

CATEGORIES: Former political parties in Israel, Zionist parties, Liberal parties

The Gahal Alignment was an Israeli political party from 1965 until the establishment of Likud in 1973. Gahal is an abbreviation for Gush Herut Liberalim, which is Hebrew for "Freedom-Liberal Bloc".  It was created by Menachem Begin who was at the time the leader of the Herut Party when Begin decided to form an alliance with the Liberal Party of Israel.  Gahal was fiscally conservative because the Liberals were and strongly in favour of security because Herut was. In 1973, Gahal joined with a number of other political parties including  the Free Centre, the National List and the Greater Israel movement to become Likud under the leadership of Menachem Begin.

[[Philip May]]

CATEGORIES: 1957 births, Living people, People from Norfolk, Spouses of Prime Ministers of the United Kingdom

Philip John May (born 18 September 1957) is a British investment relationship manager and Conservative Party activist. He is the husband of Theresa May, the former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.

[[Rostislav Rybakov]]

CATEGORIES: 1938 births, 2019 deaths, Russian educators, Writers from Moscow

Rostislav Borisovich Rybakov (Ростислав Борисович Рыбаков; (28 March 1938 - 7 August 2019) was a Russian scholar. His syudies were about  Oriental Studies. He was also a writer and the director of the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences (Institute of Oriental Studies). He was one of the founders of PEACE through CULTURE, a non governmental organization based in Austria.

[[Oscar Malbernat]]

CATEGORIES: 1944 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from renal failure, Argentine footballers, Argentine football managers

Oscar Miguel ''Cacho'' Malbernat Candela (2 February 1944 – 9 August 2019) was an Argentine footballer and manager. He was the captain of Estudiantes de La Plata between 1967 and 1972. He played for Boca Juniors in 1972 and Racing Club de Avellaneda in 1973. From 1966 to 1970, Malbernat played for the national team. Malbernat was born in La Plata, Argentina.

Malbernat died of kidney failure in La Plata on 9 August 2019 at the age of 75.

[[Cándido Sibilio]]

CATEGORIES: 1958 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from diabetes, Dominican Republic sportspeople, Spanish basketball players, Spanish Olympians

Cándido Antonio "Chicho" Sibilio Hughes (3 October 1958 – 10 August 2019) was a Dominican-Spanish basketball player. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1980 Summer Olympics. He played for FC Barcelona Bàsquet from 1976 to 1989.

Sibilio died on 10 August 2019 in San Gregorio de Nigua, in the southern coast of the Dominican Republic from problems caused by diabetes, aged 60.

[[Rocket launcher]]

CATEGORIES: Ballistics

A rocket launcher is a weapon that shoots rockets. Rockets are explosives that fly towards their targets by burning fuel. Some rocket launchers are mounted on a truck, and others are a type of recoilless rifle.

They were invented by the Chinese after they discovered gun powder. In World War II, rocket launchers became powerful enough to destroy tanks.

Many people mistakenly call all rocket launchers bazookas, but the bazooka is only one type of rocket launcher. Other rocket launchers include the RPG-7, the LAW, the AT-4, the SMAW, and the Panzerschreck.

Rocket launchers are different from missile launchers because some missiles can follow their target even if they were not aimed straight at them, but rockets cannot.

[[Bluey Adams]]

CATEGORIES: 1935 births, 2019 deaths, Australian rules footballers, Sportspeople from Victoria (Australia), Cancer deaths in Australia

Frank "Bluey" Adams (12 June 1935 – 11 August 2019) was an Australian rules football player. He played in the Victorian Football League (VFL) for the Melbourne Football Club from 1953 to 1964. Adams was born in Victoria, Australia.

Adams died at the age of 84 on 11 August 2019 from cancer.

[[Recoilless rifle]]

CATEGORIES: Artillery, Rifles

Recoilless rifles are guns that can shoot very large bullets or explosives without any recoil. This is important because Newton's First Law of Motion teaches that whenever something moves, there is a motion that goes the opposite direction that is just as strong. This is why guns have recoil. Whenever a gun shoots a bullet forward, the bullet going forward creates an equally strong movement backward. The heavier a bullet is, the more force needed to fire a bullet forward, and therefore the more force the bullet sends the gun backward. Recoilless rifles can fire very large bullets and explosives without hurting their users because they are made with a hole in the back of the gun so that the force from firing the gun goes behind the user, rather than towards the user's shoulder. People using recoilless rifles must be very careful that no one is behind them when they are shooting because the force going behind the gun, or the backblast, is powerful enough to kill a person.

[[Darryl Drake]]

CATEGORIES: 1956 births, 2019 deaths, Washington Redskins players, Cincinnati Bengals players, American football wide receivers, American football coaches, Sportspeople from Louisville, Kentucky

Darryl Drake (December 11, 1956 – August 11, 2019) was an American football player and coach. He was born in Louisville, Kentucky. His career lasted four decades, including stints as the wide receivers coach of the Chicago Bears, Arizona Cardinals, and Pittsburgh Steelers of the National Football League (NFL). Drake played wide receiver for Western Kentucky University from 1975 to 1978.

Drake played for the Washington Redskins in 1979. He later played for the Ottawa Rough Riders in 1981 and for the Cincinnati Bengals in 1983.

Drake was found dead on August 11, 2019 at his home in Latrobe, Pennsylvania at the age of 62.

[[Walter Martínez (footballer)]]

CATEGORIES: 1982 births, 2019 deaths, Deaths from myocardial infarction, Honduran footballers

Walter Julián Martínez Ramos (ˈwalteɾ maɾˈtines; 28 March 1982 – 11 August 2019) a.k.a. Pery ˈpeɾi, was a Honduran professional football striker. He last played for Beijing Capital United at Chinese City Football Super League. Martínez started his professional career at Victoria and made his debut on 25 November 2000 against Deportes Savio. He played for Vida in La Ceiba, and Marathón in San Pedro Sula. He was born in Tegucigalpa, Honduras.

Martínez died on 11 August 2019 in New York City from a heart attack at the age of 37.

